{"id": "1839752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1839752", "title": "Electrostatic precipitator", "text": "Electrostatic precipitator\n\nAn electrostatic precipitator (ESP) is a filtration device that removes fine particles, like dust and smoke, from a flowing gas using the force of an induced electrostatic charge minimally impeding the flow of gases through the unit.\n\nIn contrast to wet scrubbers, which apply energy directly to the flowing fluid medium, an ESP applies energy only to the particulate matter being collected and therefore is very efficient in its consumption of energy (in the form of electricity).\n\nThe first use of corona discharge to remove particles from an aerosol was by Hohlfeld in 1824. However, it was not commercialized until almost a century later.\n\nIn 1907 Frederick Gardner Cottrell, a professor of chemistry at the University of California, Berkeley, applied for a patent on a device for charging particles and then collecting them through electrostatic attraction—the first electrostatic precipitator. Cottrell first applied the device to the collection of sulphuric acid mist and lead oxide fumes emitted from various acid-making and smelting activities. Wine-producing vineyards in northern California were being adversely affected by the lead emissions.\n\nAt the time of Cottrell's invention, the theoretical basis for operation was not understood. The operational theory was developed later in Germany, with the work of Walter Deutsch and the formation of the Lurgi company.\n\nCottrell used proceeds from his invention to fund scientific research through the creation of a foundation called Research Corporation in 1912, to which he assigned the patents. The intent of the organization was to bring inventions made by educators (such as Cottrell) into the commercial world for the benefit of society at large. The operation of Research Corporation is funded by royalties paid by commercial firms after commercialization occurs. Research Corporation has provided vital funding to many scientific projects: Goddard's rocketry experiments, Lawrence's cyclotron, production methods for vitamins A and B, among many others.\n\nResearch Corporation set territories for manufacturers of this technology, which included Western Precipitation (Los Angeles), Lodge-Cottrell (England), Lurgi Apparatebau-Gesellschaft (Germany), and Japanese Cottrell Corp. (Japan), as well as was a clearinghouse for any process improvements. However, anti-trust concerts forced Research Corporation eliminate territory restrictions in 1946.\n\nElectrophoresis is the term used for migration of gas-suspended charged particles in a direct-current electrostatic field. Traditional CRT television sets tend to accumulate dust on the screen because of this phenomenon (a CRT is a direct-current machine operating at about 15 kilovolts).\n\nThe most basic precipitator contains a row of thin vertical wires, and followed by a stack of large flat metal plates oriented vertically, with the plates typically spaced about 1 cm to 18 cm apart, depending on the application. The air stream flows horizontally through the spaces between the wires, and then passes through the stack of plates.\n\nA negative voltage of several thousand volts is applied between wire and plate. If the applied voltage is high enough, an electric corona discharge ionizes the air around the electrodes, which then ionizes the particles in the air stream.\n\nThe ionized particles, due to the electrostatic force, are diverted towards the grounded plates. Particles build up on the collection plates and are removed from the air stream.\n\nA two-stage design (separate charging section ahead of collecting section) has the benefit of minimizing ozone production, which would adversely affect health of personnel working in enclosed spaces. For shipboard engine rooms where gearboxes generate an oil mist, two-stage ESP's are used to clean the air, improving the operating environment and preventing buildup of flammable oil fog accumulations. Collected oil is returned to the gear lubricating system.\n\nPrecipitator performance is very sensitive to two particulate properties: 1) Electrical resistivity; and 2) Particle size distribution. These properties can be measured economically and accurately in the laboratory, using standard tests. Resistivity can be determined as a function of temperature in accordance with IEEE Standard 548. This test is conducted in an air environment containing a specified moisture concentration. The test is run as a function of ascending or descending temperature, or both. Data is acquired using an average ash layer electric field of 4 kV/cm. Since relatively low applied voltage is used and no sulfuric acid vapor is present in the test environment, the values obtained indicate the maximum ash resistivity.\n\nIn an ESP, where particle charging and discharging are key functions, resistivity is an important factor that significantly affects collection efficiency. While resistivity is an important phenomenon in the inter-electrode region where most particle charging takes place, it has a particularly important effect on the dust layer at the collection electrode where discharging occurs. Particles that exhibit high resistivity are difficult to charge. But once charged, they do not readily give up their acquired charge on arrival at the collection electrode. On the other hand, particles with low resistivity easily become charged and readily release their charge to the grounded collection plate. Both extremes in resistivity impede the efficient functioning of ESPs. ESPs work best under normal resistivity conditions.\n\nResistivity, which is a characteristic of particles in an electric field, is a measure of a particle's resistance to transferring charge (both accepting and giving up charges). Resistivity is a function of a particle's chemical composition as well as flue gas operating conditions such as temperature and moisture. Particles can have high, moderate (normal), or low resistivity.\n\nBulk resistivity is defined using a more general version of Ohm’s Law, as given in Equation () below:\n\nA better way of displaying this would be to solve for resistivity as a function of applied voltage and current, as given in Equation () below:\n\nResistivity is the electrical resistance of a dust sample 1.0 cm in cross-sectional area, 1.0 cm thick, and is recorded in units of ohm-cm. A method for measuring resistivity will be described in this article. The table below, gives value ranges for low, normal, and high resistivity.\n\nResistance affects electrical conditions in the dust layer by a potential electric field (voltage drop) being formed across the layer as negatively charged particles arrive at its surface and leak their electrical charges to the collection plate. At the metal surface of the electrically grounded collection plate, the voltage is zero, whereas at the outer surface of the dust layer, where new particles and ions are arriving, the electrostatic voltage caused by the gas ions can be quite high. The strength of this electric field depends on the resistance and thickness of the dust layer.\n\nIn high-resistance dust layers, the dust is not sufficiently conductive, so electrical charges have difficulty moving through the dust layer. Consequently, electrical charges accumulate on and beneath the dust layer surface, creating a strong electric field.\n\nVoltages can be greater than 10,000 volts. Dust particles with high resistance are held too strongly to the plate, making them difficult to remove and causing rapping problems.\n\nIn low resistance dust layers, the corona current is readily passed to the grounded collection electrode. Therefore, a relatively weak electric field, of several thousand volts, is maintained across the dust layer. Collected dust particles with low resistance do not adhere strongly enough to the collection plate. They are easily dislodged and become retained in the gas stream.\n\nThe electrical conductivity of a bulk layer of particles depends on both surface and volume factors. Volume conduction, or the motions of electrical charges through the interiors of particles, depends mainly on the composition and temperature of the particles. In the higher temperature regions, above , volume conduction controls the conduction mechanism. Volume conduction also involves ancillary factors, such as compression of the particle layer, particle size and shape, and surface properties.\n\nVolume conduction is represented in the figures as a straight-line at temperatures above . At temperatures below about , electrical charges begin to flow across surface moisture and chemical films adsorbed onto the particles. Surface conduction begins to lower the resistivity values and bend the curve downward at temperatures below .\n\nThese films usually differ both physically and chemically from the interiors of the particles owing to adsorption phenomena. Theoretical calculations indicate that moisture films only a few molecules thick are adequate to provide the desired surface conductivity. Surface conduction on particles is closely related to surface-leakage currents occurring on electrical insulators, which have been extensively studied. An interesting practical application of surface-leakage is the determination of dew point by measurement of the current between adjacent electrodes mounted on a glass surface. A sharp rise in current signals the formation of a moisture film on the glass. This method has been used effectively for determining the marked rise in dew point, which occurs when small amounts of sulfuric acid vapor are added to an atmosphere (commercial Dewpoint Meters are available on the market).\n\nThe following discussion of normal, high, and low resistance applies to ESPs operated in a dry state; resistance is not a problem in the operation of wet ESPs because of the moisture concentration in the ESP. The relationship between moisture content and resistance is explained later in this work.\n\nAs stated above, ESPs work best under normal resistivity conditions. Particles with normal resistivity do not rapidly lose their charge on arrival at the collection electrode. These particles slowly leak their charge to grounded plates and are retained on the collection plates by intermolecular adhesive and cohesive forces. This allows a particulate layer to be built up and then dislodged from the plates by rapping. Within the range of normal dust resistivity (between 10 and 2 x 10 ohm-cm), fly ash is collected more easily than dust having either low or high resistivity.\n\nIf the voltage drop across the dust layer becomes too high, several adverse effects can occur. First, the high voltage drop reduces the voltage difference between the discharge electrode and collection electrode, and thereby reduces the electrostatic field strength used to drive the gas ion-charged particles over to the collected dust layer. As the dust layer builds up, and the electrical charges accumulate on the surface of the dust layer, the voltage difference between the discharge and collection electrodes decreases. The migration velocities of small particles are especially affected by the reduced electric field strength.\n\nAnother problem that occurs with high resistivity dust layers is called back corona. This occurs when the potential drop across the dust layer is so great that corona discharges begin to appear in the gas that is trapped within the dust layer. The dust layer breaks down electrically, producing small holes or craters from which back corona discharges occur. Positive gas ions are generated within the dust layer and are accelerated toward the \"negatively charged\" discharge electrode. The positive ions reduce some of the negative charges on the dust layer and neutralize some of the negative ions on the \"charged particles\" heading toward the collection electrode. Disruptions of the normal corona process greatly reduce the ESP's collection efficiency, which in severe cases, may fall below 50% . When back corona is present, the dust particles build up on the electrodes forming a layer of insulation. Often this can not be repaired without bringing the unit offline.\n\nThe third, and generally most common problem with high resistivity dust is increased electrical sparking. When the sparking rate exceeds the \"set spark rate limit,\" the automatic controllers limit the operating voltage of the field. This causes reduced particle charging and reduced migration velocities toward the collection electrode. High resistivity can generally be reduced by doing the following:\n\n\nThin dust layers and high-resistivity dust especially favor the formation of back corona craters. Severe back corona has been observed with dust layers as thin as 0.1 mm, but a dust layer just over one particle thick can reduce the sparking voltage by 50%. The most marked effects of back corona on the current-voltage characteristics are:\n\n\nThe Figure below and to the left shows the variation in resistivity with changing gas temperature for six different industrial dusts along with three coal-fired fly ashes. The Figure on the right illustrates resistivity values measured for various chemical compounds that were prepared in the laboratory.\n\nResults for Fly Ash A (in the figure to the left) were acquired in the ascending temperature mode. These data are typical for a moderate to high combustibles content ash. Data for Fly Ash B are from the same sample, acquired during the descending temperature mode.\n\nThe differences between the ascending and descending temperature modes are due to the presence of unburned combustibles in the sample. Between the two test modes, the samples are equilibrated in dry air for 14 hours (overnight) at . This overnight annealing process typically removes between 60% and 90% of any unburned combustibles present in the samples. Exactly how carbon works as a charge carrier is not fully understood, but it is known to significantly reduce the resistivity of a dust.\n\nCarbon can act, at first, like a high resistivity dust in the precipitator. Higher voltages can be required in order for corona generation to begin. These higher voltages can be problematic for the TR-Set controls. The problem lies in onset of corona causing large amounts of current to surge through the (low resistivity) dust layer. The controls sense this surge as a spark. As precipitators are operated in spark-limiting mode, power is terminated and the corona generation cycle re-initiates. Thus, lower power (current) readings are noted with relatively high voltage readings.\n\nThe same thing is believed to occur in laboratory measurements. Parallel plate geometry is used in laboratory measurements without corona generation. A stainless steel cup holds the sample. Another stainless steel electrode weight sits on top of the sample (direct contact with the dust layer). As voltage is increased from small amounts (e.g. 20 V), no current is measured. Then, a threshold voltage level is reached. At this level, current surges through the sample... so much so that the voltage supply unit can trip off. After removal of the unburned combustibles during the above-mentioned annealing procedure, the descending temperature mode curve shows the typical inverted “V” shape one might expect.\n\nParticles that have low resistivity are difficult to collect because they are easily charged (very conductive) and rapidly lose their charge on arrival at the collection electrode. The particles take on the charge of the collection electrode, bounce off the plates, and become re-entrained in the gas stream. Thus, attractive and repulsive electrical forces that are normally at work at normal and higher resistivities are lacking, and the binding forces to the plate are considerably lessened. Examples of low-resistivity dusts are unburned carbon in fly ash and carbon black.\n\nIf these conductive particles are coarse, they can be removed upstream of the precipitator by using a device such as a cyclone mechanical collector.\n\nThe addition of liquid ammonia () into the gas stream as a conditioning agent has found wide use in recent years. It is theorized that ammonia reacts with contained in the flue gas to form an ammonium sulfate compound that increases the cohesivity of the dust. This additional cohesivity makes up for the loss of electrical attraction forces.\n\nThe table below summarizes the characteristics associated with low, normal and high resistivity dusts.\n\nThe moisture content of the flue gas stream also affects particle resistivity. Increasing the moisture content of the gas stream by spraying water or injecting steam into the duct work preceding the ESP lowers the resistivity. In both temperature adjustment and moisture conditioning, one must maintain gas conditions above the dew point to prevent corrosion problems in the ESP or downstream equipment. The figure to the right shows the effect of temperature and moisture on the resistivity of a cement dust. As the percentage of moisture in the gas stream increases from 6 to 20%, the resistivity of the dust dramatically decreases. Also, raising or lowering the temperature can decrease cement dust resistivity for all the moisture percentages represented.\n\nThe presence of in the gas stream has been shown to favor the electrostatic precipitation process when problems with high resistivity occur. Most of the sulfur content in the coal burned for combustion sources converts to . However, approximately 1% of the sulfur converts to . The amount of in the flue gas normally increases with increasing sulfur content of the coal. The resistivity of the particles decreases as the sulfur content of the coal increases.\n\nOther conditioning agents, such as sulfuric acid, ammonia, sodium chloride, and soda ash (sometimes as raw trona), have also been used to reduce particle resistivity. Therefore, the chemical composition of the flue gas stream is important with regard to the resistivity of the particles to be collected in the ESP. The table below lists various conditioning agents and their mechanisms of operation.\nIf injection of ammonium sulfate occurs at a temperature greater than about , dissociation into ammonia and sulfur trioxide results. Depending on the ash, may preferentially interact with fly ash as conditioning. The remainder recombines with ammonia to add to the space charge as well as increase cohesiveness of the ash.\n\nMore recently, it has been recognized that a major reason for loss of efficiency of the electrostatic precipitator is due to particle buildup on the charging wires in addition to the collection plates (Davidson and McKinney, 1998). This is easily remedied by making sure that the wires themselves are cleaned at the same time that the collecting plates are cleaned.\n\nSulfuric acid vapor () enhances the effects of water vapor on surface conduction. It is physically adsorbed within the layer of moisture on the particle surfaces. The effects of relatively small amounts of acid vapor can be seen in the figure below and to the right.\n\nThe inherent resistivity of the sample at is 5×10 ohm-cm. An equilibrium concentration of just 1.9 ppm sulfuric acid vapor lowers that value to about 7 x 10 ohm-cm.\n\nESPs continue to be excellent devices for control of many industrial particulate emissions, including smoke from electricity-generating utilities (coal and oil fired), salt cake collection from black liquor boilers in pulp mills, and catalyst collection from fluidized bed catalytic cracker units in oil refineries to name a few. These devices treat gas volumes from several hundred thousand ACFM to 2.5 million ACFM (1,180 m³/s) in the largest coal-fired boiler applications. For a coal-fired boiler the collection is usually performed downstream of the air preheater at about which provides optimal resistivity of the coal-ash particles. For some difficult applications with low-sulfur fuel hot-end units have been built operating above .\n\nThe original parallel plate–weighted wire design has evolved as more efficient (and robust) discharge electrode designs were developed, today focusing on rigid (pipe-frame) discharge electrodes to which many sharpened spikes are attached (barbed wire), maximizing corona production. Transformer-rectifier systems apply voltages of at relatively high current densities. Modern controls, such as an automatic voltage control, minimize electric sparking and prevent arcing (sparks are quenched within 1/2 cycle of the TR set), avoiding damage to the components. Automatic plate-rapping systems and hopper-evacuation systems remove the collected particulate matter while on line, theoretically allowing ESPs to stay in continuous operation for years at a time.\n\nElectrostatic precipitators can be used to sample biological airborne particles or aerosol for analysis. Sampling for bioaerosols requires precipitator designs optimised with a liquid counter electrode, which can be used to sample biological particles, e.g. viruses, directly into a small liquid volume to reduce unnecessary sample dilution. See Bioaerosols for more details.\n\nA wet electrostatic precipitator (WESP or wet ESP) operates with water vapor saturated air streams (100% relative humidity). WESPs are commonly used to remove liquid droplets such as sulfuric acid mist from industrial process gas streams. The WESP is also commonly used where the gases are high in moisture content, contain combustible particulate, or have particles that are sticky in nature.\n\nPlate precipitators are commonly marketed to the public as air purifier devices or as a permanent replacement for furnace filters, but all have the undesirable attribute of being somewhat messy to clean. A negative side-effect of electrostatic precipitation devices is the potential production of toxic ozone and . However, electrostatic precipitators offer benefits over other air purifications technologies, such as HEPA filtration, which require expensive filters and can become \"production sinks\" for many harmful forms of bacteria.\n\nWith electrostatic precipitators, if the collection plates are allowed to accumulate large amounts of particulate matter, the particles can sometimes bond so tightly to the metal plates that vigorous washing and scrubbing may be required to completely clean the collection plates. The close spacing of the plates can make thorough cleaning difficult, and the stack of plates often cannot be easily disassembled for cleaning. One solution, suggested by several manufacturers, is to wash the collector plates in a dishwasher.\n\nSome consumer precipitation filters are sold with special soak-off cleaners, where the entire plate array is removed from the precipitator and soaked in a large container overnight, to help loosen the tightly bonded particulates.\n\nA study by the Canada Mortgage and Housing Corporation testing a variety of forced-air furnace filters found that ESP filters provided the best, and most cost-effective means of cleaning air using a forced-air system.\n\nThe first portable electrostatic air filter systems for homes was marketed in 1954 by Raytheon.\n"}
{"id": "1839753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1839753", "title": "Fort Stoddert", "text": "Fort Stoddert\n\nFort Stoddert was a stockade fort in the Mississippi Territory, in what is today Alabama. It was located on a bluff of the Mobile River, near modern Mount Vernon, close to the confluence of the Tombigbee and Alabama Rivers. It served as the western terminus of the Federal Road which ran through Creek lands to Fort Wilkinson in Georgia. The fort, built in 1799, was named for Benjamin Stoddert, the secretary to the Continental Board of War during the American Revolution and Secretary of the Navy during the Quasi War. Fort Stoddert was built by the United States to keep the peace by preventing its own settlers in the Tombigbee District from attacking the Spanish in the Mobile District. Aaron Burr was held as a prisoner at the fort after his arrest at McIntosh in 1807 for treason against the United States. Fort Stoddert served as the outpost for the Mississippi Militia during the Creek War from 1813 to 1814. The site declined rapidly in importance after the capture of Mobile by the United States in 1813 and the establishment of the Mount Vernon Arsenal in 1828.\n"}
{"id": "1839756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1839756", "title": "Dwadasama", "text": "Dwadasama\n\nIn astrology, a dwadasamsa, which is also called a dwad, duad or dwadachamsha, is 1/12 of a zodiacal sign. The dwadasama was developed by Hindu astrologers who broke the 30 degree sign down into 12 equal parts of 2.5 degrees each. It is based upon the principle of \"the part being a reflection of the whole\", and 12 signs of the zodiac were placed within the confines of one sign. It is believed that these \"signs within a sign\", by virtue of their planetary rulers, account for subtle shadings of expression found in different degrees of that sign. Therefore, in addition to the sign having a primary planetary ruler, it would also have a sub-ruler, based upon which dwadasama it is placed in.\n\nFor example, if an individual's Sun is placed in 10 degrees 51 minutes Aquarius then their Sun sign would be ruled by Uranus, but the dwad, being in the range of 10 to 12.5 degrees would be placed within Gemini (the 5th dwad), so the individual's sub-ruler would be the Mercury, which rules Gemini.\n\nA listing of the dwads for each sign is found in the diagram below:\n\nHere, we see two ways of dividing the astrological signs combined, first the ten degrees decans, then the 2.5 degree duads:\n"}
{"id": "1839764", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1839764", "title": "Panabo", "text": "Panabo\n\n', officially the ', or simply referred to as Panabo City is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nBordering Davao City to its northeast, Panabo is a part of Davao Metropolitan Area. The city has an area of . \nThe Panabo City Hall is located about 2.23 kilometers from its boundary with Davao City.\n\nThe name Panabo originated from the phrase \"\"pana-sa-boboy\"\" which means \"bow and arrow\", the tool which the original inhabitants of the place, the Aetas, use when hunting wild animals for food.\n\nOriginally the rich lowland of what today is Panabo was inhabited by a group of stocky-haired natives called Aetas. These people led nomadic life and lived by hunting. With the use of their most essential tool, the bow and arrow—\"\"pana-sa-boboy\"\" as they call it—they hunted for food which primarily consisted of rootcrops and meat of wild boars.\n\nSettlers and pioneers from the Visayas and Luzon started to flock the place during the early 1900s in search of a new life in the region. When the first batch of settlers arrived on the place, in what is now the urban core of the city, they found out that it was already a thriving community, and thus called it \"Taboan\", or trading center. Feeling alienated with the massive influx of settlers in the region, the Aeta natives moved further into the hinterlands to the west, thus ensuring that the settler inhabitants become the majority of the population. The new inhabitants started to name the place as Panabo, named after the bow and arrow that the Aeta natives always carry.\n\nPanabo, until then only a mere barangay of Tagum, then known as Magugpo during that time, became a town on 19 July 1949, through Presidential Proclamation No. 236 of the President Manuel A. Roxas.\n\nThe Tagum Agricultural Development Company, otherwise known as TADECO, was founded on 20 December 1950 in the town of Panabo. It was the birth of the world's largest Cavendish banana plantation that saw the mass employment of the locals seeking for jobs, and the start of unprecedented growth of the town as even larger throngs of Visayan migrants settled on the town eager to join the plantation's workforce. Large areas of forests were cleared to make way for the banana trees under TADECO. The town of Panabo grew both in economic terms and population as decades passed since the founding of TADECO and numerous businesses were then set up locally, until the conditions finally warranted for its conversion into a city.\n\nThe local government unit of Panabo was created into a component city of Davao del Norte by virtue of Republic Act No. 9015 and ratified by the residents in a plebiscite held on March 31, 2001. However, its official existence as a municipal corporation took effect on with the appointment of new set of officials.\n\nThe city of Panabo has a total land area of 251.23 km. It was bordered by the shores of Davao Gulf to the east, by Davao City to its west and south, and some of the municipalities of Davao del Norte in the north. The western part of the city featured hills while the rest were flatlands.\n\nThe city is politically subdivided into 40 barangays. Quezon was formerly the sitio of Cabili; it became a barrio in 1957.\n\nBeing an agro-industrial city, Panabo is known as the \"Banana Capital of the Philippines\" due to numerous banana plantations scattered throughout the city. In fact, Panabo is the home of the world's biggest banana plantation, which is owned by the Tagum Agricultural Development Company (TADECO), which covers around 6,900 hectares of banana fields and produce millions of boxes of export-quality bananas annually. The city itself cultivated 40% of its land or around 10,000 hectares into planting export-quality Cavendish bananas. Thus, banana cultivation and exportation are the main economic lifeblood of the city.\n\nThere are two privately owned port facilities in the city, which enabled them to export various fruits, such as bananas, mangoes, papayas, and pineapples, to countries like Japan, Korea, China, and countries as far in the Middle East and the European Union.\n\nPublic infrastructure includes the Freedom Park which features a unique banana inspired fountain sculpted by the world class artist Kublai Millan. The Panabo Multi-Purpose Cooperative Tourism Gymnasium, located beside the City Hall is also a public infrastructure, the gymnasium accommodates an estimated ten-thousand people and also serves as playing venue of the Philippine Basketball Association as well as serving concerts for the city.\n\nPanabo is served by the 6-lane Maharlika Highway and is a highway road junction heading to the TADECO banana plantation as well as to other parts of Davao del Norte and the northernmost areas of Davao City. Tricycles and jeepneys are the main mode of transportation in the city, while passenger buses and public utility vans serve overland routes within and outside the city.\n\n\n\nA memorandum of agreement between UP Los Baños College of Agriculture and ANFLOCOR was signed for the establishment of UP Professional School for Agriculture and the Environment (UP PSAE) which will be UPLB's extension campus in Panabo City. In addition, UP Mindanao will also collaborate on some courses and programs to be offered.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1839766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1839766", "title": "Tool and cutter grinder", "text": "Tool and cutter grinder\n\nA tool and cutter grinder is used to sharpen milling cutters and tool bits along with a host of other cutting tools.\n\nIt is an extremely versatile machine used to perform a variety of grinding operations: surface, cylindrical, or complex shapes. The image shows a manually operated setup, however highly automated Computer Numerical Control (CNC) machines are becoming increasingly common due to the complexities involved in the process.\n\nThe operation of this machine (in particular, the manually operated variety) requires a high level of skill. The two main skills needed are understanding of the relationship between the grinding wheel and the metal being cut and knowledge of tool geometry. The illustrated set-up is only one of many combinations available. The huge variety in shapes and types of machining cutters requires flexibility in usage. A variety of dedicated fixtures are included that allow cylindrical grinding operations or complex angles to be ground. The vise shown can swivel in three planes.\n\nThe table moves longitudinally and laterally, the head can swivel as well as being adjustable in the horizontal plane, as visible in the first image. This flexibility in the head allows the critical clearance angles required by the various cutters to be achieved.\n\nToday's tool and cutter grinder is typically a CNC machine tool, usually 5 axes, which produces endmills, drills, step tools, etc. which are widely used in the metal cutting and woodworking industries.\n\nModern CNC tool and cutter grinders enhance productivity by typically offering features such as automatic tool loading as well as the ability to support multiple grinding wheels. High levels of automation, as well as automatic in-machine tool measurement and compensation, allow extended periods of unmanned production. With careful process configuration and appropriate tool support, tolerances less than 5 micrometres (0.0002\") can be consistently achieved even on the most complex parts.\n\nApart from manufacturing, in-machine tool measurement using touch-probe or laser technology allows cutting tools to be reconditioned. During normal use, cutting edges either wear and/or chip. The geometric features of cutting tools can be automatically measured within the CNC tool grinder and the tool ground to return cutting surfaces to optimal condition. \n\nSignificant software advancements have allowed CNC tool and cutter grinders to be utilized in a wide range of industries. Advanced CNC grinders feature sophisticated software that allows geometrically complex parts to be designed either parametrically or by using third party CAD/CAM software. 3D simulation of the entire grinding process and the finished part is possible as well as detection of any potential mechanical collisions and calculation of production time. Such features allow parts to be designed and verified, as well as the production process optimized, entirely within the software environment. \n\nTool and cutter grinders can be adapted to manufacturing precision machine components. The machine, when used for these purposes more likely would be called a CNC Grinding System.\n\nCNC Grinding Systems are widely used to produce parts for aerospace, medical, automotive, and other industries. Extremely hard and exotic materials are generally no problem for today's grinding systems and the multi-axis machines are capable of generating quite complex geometries.\n\nA radius grinder (or radius tool grinder) is a special grinder used for grinding the most complex tool forms, and is the historical predecessor to the CNC tool and cutter grinder. Like the CNC grinder, it may be used for other tasks where grinding spherical surfaces is necessary. The tool itself consists of three parts: The grinder head, work table, and holding fixture. The grinder head has three degrees of freedom. Vertical movement, movement into the workpiece, and tilt. These are generally set statically, and left fixed throughout operations. The work table is a T-slotted X-axis table mounted on top of a radial fixture. Mounting the X axis on top of the radius table, as opposed to the other way around, allows for complex and accurate radius grinds. The holding fixtures can be anything one can mount on a slotted table, but most commonly used is a collet or chuck fixture that indexes and has a separate Y movement to allow accurate depth setting and endmill sharpening. The dressers used on these grinders are usually quite expensive, and can dress the grinding wheel itself with a particular radius.\n\nThe D-bit (after Deckel, the brand of the original manufacturer) grinder is a tool bit grinder designed to produce single-lip cutters for pantograph milling machines. Pantographs are a variety of milling machine used to create cavities for the dies used in the molding process; they are largely obsolete and replaced by CNC machining centers in modern industry.\n\nWith the addition of accessory holders, the single-lip grinding capability may also be applied to grinding lathe cutting bits, and simple faceted profiles on tips of drill bits or end mills. The machine is sometimes advertised as a \"universal cutter-grinder\", but the \"universal\" term refers only to the range of compound angles available, not that the machine is capable of sharpening the universe of tools. The machine is not capable of sharpening drill bits in the standard profiles, or generating any convex or spiral profiles.\n\n"}
{"id": "1839777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1839777", "title": "Heosemys", "text": "Heosemys\n\nHeosemys is a genus of freshwater turtles (\"terrapins\" in British English) in the family Geoemydidae (formerly called Bataguridae). The genus \"Heosemys\" was split out of the related genus \"Geoemyda\" by McDowell in 1964.\n\nFour species are placed under \"Heosemys\":\n\nSome other species, initially placed here also, are now in different genera. The Sulawesi forest turtle is now classified under \"Leucocephalon\", the Philippine forest turtle under \"Siebenrockiella\", and the Cochin Forest cane turtle under \"Vijayachelys\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1839782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1839782", "title": "Samandarin", "text": "Samandarin\n\nSamandarin or Samandarine is the main steroidal alkaloid secreted by the fire salamander (\"Salamandra salamandra\"). The compound is extremely toxic (LD = 70 µg/kg in mice). Poisoning can cause convulsions, respiratory paralysis, and eventual death. Samandarin is also believed to be the active ingredient in Salamander brandy, a Slovenian drink with purported hallucinogenic and aphrodisiac effects.\n\nSamandarin belongs to a family of toxic compounds called samandarines. Samandarines are biologically active, lipid-soluble steroidal alkaloids. They all contain a similar 7-6-6-5 fused ring system. Nine structures in this family have been characterized. \n\nSamandarines are exclusively produced and secreted by the fire salamander through their parotoid glands (20 mg/gland). Samandarin is the main component of these poisons, although the precise ratio of the samandarine alkaloids can vary from species to species.\nFire salamanders are indigenous to central Europe and reside in deciduous forests. They secrete the samandarine toxins for protection from predators. Salamander venom has been shown to be toxic to mammals, birds, fishes, and even other amphibians. It has also been suggested that samandarines prevent the salamander from contracting bacterial and fungal infections.\n\nEarly descriptions of salamander poisonings were found in the writings of many physicians and philosophers in the Middle Ages. Little was known about the toxic compounds, but the recorded symptoms from poisonings were consistent with what is known today. The ancient healers also had some interesting theories about how one contracted poison from the salamander. They believed that the mere sighting of the black and yellow spotted animal or ingestion of salamander ashes would lead to sickness and death.\n\nIt was not until 1768 when Laurentius, a physician, discovered that the secretions from the skin glands of the salamander were the source of the poison. In 1866, Zalesky performed more studies on the toxicology of samandarines. He was able to isolate the family of alkaloids (believing they were one compound) and tested their toxicity on a variety of animals. He also found that the salamander could be poisoned by its own venom if it entered the salamander’s bloodstream.\n\nSamandarin was the first in the family of compounds to be isolated. In 1899, Faust purified samandarin as a crystalline sulfate salt by killing the salamanders with chloroform, mincing their corpses, and performing a number of acid-base extractions. In 1926, the pharmacology of samandarin was further examined by Gessner who administered the poison to animals and dissected their corpses. He determined that the poison primarily affected the central nervous system and spinal cord.\n\nMost studies on samandarin and other samandarine alkaloids were performed in the mid-1900s by German scientists Schöpf and Habermehl. They were able to elucidate the structures of nine samandarines and found that samandarin was the main alkaloid in the salamander’s secretions. The structure and stereochemistry of samandarin was confirmed in 1961 using X-ray crystallography. In 1968, Habermehl and Haaf also investigated biosynthesis of samandarines with \"in vitro\" and \"in vivo\" experiments, finding that the compounds originate from a cholesterol precursor.\n\nIt is believed that the samandarine family of compounds is the active ingredient in an indigenous Slovenian drink called Salamander brandy. Salamander brandy was first brought to attention in 1995 by an article published in the Slovenian magazine \"Mladina\", describing the hallucinogenic and intensely aphrodisiac effects of the drink.\n\nOgorevc, the author of the article, writes about his first-hand experience of obtaining and experimenting with Salamander brandy. In the excerpt below, Ogorevc describes his intoxication with Salamander brandy:\n\nOgorevc also reported on a few methods he observed for making Salamander brandy. One is by adding live black and yellow spotted salamanders to a barrel of fermenting fruit (one salamander for every ten liters). The mixture is then left for a couple of months while the salamander secretes its toxins (supposedly samandarines) to avoid ethanol absorption until its eventual death. Another method he describes is to hang a salamander by its hind legs under a stream of brandy during the distillation process. The salamander will excrete its poisons to defend itself while the brandy continues to wash away its secretions. A third technique is to kill and dry the salamanders and hang them above the pot of cooking fruit. The steam that rises will extract the poisonous compounds from the salamander and will then be distilled and collected in a vessel.\n\nThe publication of Ogorevc’s account brought much public attention and curiosity to this enigmatic drink. Yet, the credibility of the existence of Salamander brandy as described by Ogorevc has been brought into question. Anthropologist Miha Kozorog from University of Ljubljana decided to investigate Ogorevc’s claims in 2003. Although he and his colleagues traveled to the region where Ogorevc supposedly bought Salamander brandy, Kozorog was unable to obtain any samples.\n\nHowever, from many discussions with the locals in that region, he learned that Salamander brandy was not a psychedelic drink as exclaimed by Ogorevc and the media but was rather a derogatory term for bad or fake brandy. The locals explain that brandy distillers who make Salamander brandy are swindlers. Those who do consume Salamander brandy, only do so accidentally and as a result, will experience paralysis in the legs (which is one of the symptoms of samandarin poisoning). Kozorog quotes “there are fair and good brandy distillers who cook pure and good brandy; there are also those who swindle with brandy and whose brandy is a fake one (and sometimes poisoned)…”\n\nKozorog also learned of a folktale surrounding Salamander brandy. The story tells a tale of a woman who lived on a farm and often cooked a special brandy to which she added a live salamander. Those who drank her brandy were driven mad from the poison. Whenever the devil came by for a drink, the locals could hear terrible rumbling throughout their village as the devil ran around intoxicated from her concoction.\n\nIn his research, Kozorog was unable to find any hard evidence of the hallucinogenic properties Ogorevc described in Salamander brandy. Considering the methods that have been described for preparing Salamander brandy, it is likely that samandarine toxins do play a role in the effects of the drink. However, the brandy is rather stigmatized among locals as adulterated brandy. Kozorog claims that the excitement surrounding the psychedelic properties of Salamander brandy was engendered mainly by Ogorevc’s humorous writing style and grandiose media coverage.\n\nSamandarin is extremely toxic (LD = 70 µg/kg in mice, LD = 700-900 µg/kg in dogs) but little is known about its precise mechanism of action. Samandarin mainly affects the central nervous system, specifically the spinal cord. No treatment or antidote is known for the poison. Although samandarin has shown to have some local anesthetic effects, there are currently no therapeutic uses for samandarin.\n\nSamandarin poisoning can occur through transdermal exposure or oral ingestion. In the early stages of samandarin poisoning, there is over-excitation of the muscles – restlessness, hypertension, rapid breathing, dilated pupils, and increased mucus and saliva. In the later stages, samandarin can cause convulsions, dyspnea, and paralysis. Death eventually occurs by respiratory paralysis after a few hours. Animals poisoned with samandarin show hemorrhaging in the internal organs.\n\nHallucinogenic and aphrodisiac effects from samandarin ingestion have been rumored and reported by media but are largely unfounded.\n\nHabermehl and Haaf have investigated the biosynthesis of samandarin with \"in vivo\" and \"in vitro\" experiments. Samandarin is synthesized from cholesterol precursors in the liver, testes, or ovaries. They found that the enlargement of ring A occurs by nitrogen insertion from a glutamine residue. The degradation of the carbon chain and hydroxylation of ring D is shown through the intermediates in the scheme below.\nThe carbon chain on the D ring of cholesterol is degraded by functionalizations with carboxyl groups and sequential decarboxylation reactions. A hydroxyl group is also installed on the adjacent carbon to yield samandarin. These steps are performed by enzymes in the salamander. The details of the biosynthesis have not been elucidated completely.\n\nThe chemical synthesis of samandarin was of interest by a few groups in the 1960s and 1970s but has not been pursued in recent years. The construction of ring A was of greatest synthetic interest. Shimizu in 1976 was able to successfully construct the bridged oxazolidone system with correct stereoselectivity. The steps proceeded with low to moderate yields.\n\nThe last few steps of the synthesis is shown below. Using m-chloroperobenzoic acid, an epoxide is created onto the alkene. The addition of sodium azide will facilitate the anti-Markovnikov opening of the epoxide. Reduction with sodium borohydride completes the azaheterocycle and bridged oxazolidone through either a cyclic amidine intermediate or imino ester intermediate.\n"}
{"id": "1839791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1839791", "title": "AMTS", "text": "AMTS\n\nAMTS may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1839801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1839801", "title": "J. E. H. MacDonald", "text": "J. E. H. MacDonald\n\nJames Edward Hervey MacDonald (1873–1932) was an English-Canadian artist and one of the founders of the Group of Seven who initiated the first major Canadian national art movement. He was the father of the illustrator Thoreau MacDonald.\n\nMacDonald was born on 12 May 1873 in Durham, England, to an English mother and Canadian father, who was a cabinetmaker. In 1887 at the age of 14, he immigrated with his family to Hamilton, Ontario. That year he began his first training as an artist at the Hamilton Art School, where he studied under John Ireland and Arthur Heming. In 1889, they moved again to Toronto, where he studied commercial art and became active in the Toronto Art Student League. He continued his training at the Central Ontario School of Art and Design, where he studied with George Agnew Reid and William Cruikshank.\n\nIn 1895, MacDonald took a position as a commercial designer at Grip Ltd, an important commercial art firm, where he further developed his design skills. In the coming years, he encouraged his colleagues—including future artist Tom Thomson—to develop their skills as painters. In 1899, MacDonald married Joan Lavis, and two years later they had a son, Thoreau. MacDonald worked as a designer at Grip Ltd until 1903, then at Carlton Studio in London from 1903 to 1907, and returned to Grip Ltd in 1907. Whilst at Carlton, he worked with Norman Mills Price, William Tracy Wallace, and Albert Angus Turbayne.\n\nIn 1911, MacDonald resigned his designer position at Grip Ltd and moved with his wife and child to Thornhill, Ontario, to pursue a career as a landscape artist. To supplement his income, he worked occasionally as a freelance designer until 1921. After developing his own unique style to the genre, he organized a show of his work at the Arts and Letters Club of Toronto in November 1911. Fellow artist Lawren Harris—a member of the Royal Canadian Academy of Arts—was so impressed with MacDonald's work that he asked if they could work together. Harris encouraged MacDonald to continue painting and show his work whenever possible. The following year they organized their first joint exhibition. In 1912, MacDonald was widely recognized for his contributions to an exhibition at the Ontario Society of Artists.\n\nIn January 1913, MacDonald and Harris traveled to the Albright Art Gallery, today's Albright-Knox Gallery, in Buffalo, New York, where they attended the \"Exhibition of Contemporary Scandinavian Art\" and saw post-Impressionist and expressionist landscape paintings by artists such as Gustaf Fjaestad and Vilhelm Hammershøi. The two artists felt that the approach to the northern Scandinavian wilderness could be adopted by Canadian painters to create on canvas a unique Canadian form of landscape art. Later that year, commercial artists based in Toronto began to show interest in the potential of original Canadian expression; these artists began to congregate around MacDonald and Harris. In the spring of 1913, MacDonald wrote to A. Y. Jackson, inviting him to come to Toronto, which he did in May.\n\nIn March 1916, MacDonald exhibited \"The Tangled Garden\" at the Ottawa Society of Artists. Though derided by art critics of the day, it was a fairly conventional post-impressionistic painting of sunflowers—one that recalls Vincent van Gogh's treatment of the subject from nearly forty years before, but in which MacDonald would have relied on sketches of sunflowers he made in his own garden at Thornhill, Ontario. Accustomed to the smooth blending and muted tones of Canadian academic art in the style of the Canadian Art Club, the critics were taken aback by the brightness and intensity of the colours. The art critic for the \"Toronto Daily Star\" called it \"an incoherent mass of color\". Hostile art critics thereafter singled out MacDonald for attacks in the press.\nIn the autumn of 1918, MacDonald, Harris, and other artists interested in their new Canadian approach to painting travelled to the Algoma district north of Lake Superior in a specially outfitted Algoma Central Railway car that functioned as a mobile artist studio. The group would hitch their car to trains travelling through the area, and when they found a scenic location, they would unhitch and spend time exploring and painting the wilderness. MacDonald would return to Algoma with his colleagues for the next several autumns. These trips would produce some of his most acclaimed paintings, including \"Mist Fantasy, Sand River, Algoma\" (1920) and \"The Solemn Land\" (1921).\n\nIn 1920, MacDonald co-founded the Group of Seven, which dedicated itself to promoting a distinct Canadian art developed through direct contact with the Canadian landscape. The other founding members were Frederick Varley, A. Y. Jackson, Lawren Harris, Frank Johnston, Arthur Lismer, and Franklin Carmichael. MacDonald had worked with Lismer, Varley, Johnston, and Carmichael at the design firm Grip Ltd. in Toronto. Together they initiated the first major Canadian national art movement, producing paintings directly inspired by the Canadian landscape.\n\nEvery summer beginning in 1924, MacDonald travelled to the Canadian Rockies to paint the mountainous landscapes that dominated his later work. By this time he had become somewhat alienated from the rest of the Group of Seven, as many of the younger members were beginning to paint in a more abstract manner.\n\nFrom 1928 until his death MacDonald served as the Principal of the Ontario College of Art, and he painted with less frequency and less consistent success.\n\nToday, MacDonald is viewed with general admiration for his art, with one writer commenting, \"no Canadian landscape painter possessed a richer command of colour and pigment than J. E. H. MacDonald ... His brushwork is at once disciplined and vigorous. His best on-the-spot sketches possess an intensity and freshness of execution not dissimilar from Van Gogh.\" His former home and garden in Vaughan, Ontario have been restored. Owned by the City of Vaughan, they are open to the public.\n\nMacDonald suffered a stroke in 1931, and spent the following summer recovering in Barbados. He died in Toronto on 26 November 1932 at the age of 59. He was buried at Prospect Cemetery in Toronto.\n\nOn 8 June 1973 Canada Post issued 'J.E.H. MacDonald, painter, 1873–1932' designed by William Rueter based on MacDonald's \"Mist Fantasy, Northland\" (1922) in the Art Gallery of Ontario, Toronto. The 15¢ stamps were printed by Ashton-Potter Limited.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1839808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1839808", "title": "1915 in South Africa", "text": "1915 in South Africa\n\nThe following lists events that happened during 1915 in South Africa.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nTwo narrow gauge locomotive types enter service in South Africa:\n\nFive Cape gauge locomotive types enter service on the South African Railways (SAR):\n"}
{"id": "1839811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1839811", "title": "Null-O", "text": "Null-O\n\n\"Null-O\" is a 1958 science fiction short story by American writer Philip K. Dick. It examines the concept of totally unempathic and 'logical' humans (\"Null-O\"'s) in a parody of the plot and concepts of \"The Pawns of Null-A\" by A. E. van Vogt. These beings view individual collections of matter, i.e. any object, as subjective structures and see the true state of reality as an 'undifferentiated world of pure energy'. They can also move their ears independently, giving them excellent hearing. After attaining positions of power they proceed with a plan to ultimately return everything in the universe to this state. This is to be done by the construction of successively more powerful bombs, ultimately resulting in the rather improbable 'U-bomb' that will homogenise the whole universe. The Null-O plan is halted, however, when the 'ordinary' people of the world, who have survived the nuclear destruction of Earth's surface in the shelters built by their employers, rise up in drilling machines to stop the construction of an 'E-Bomb' designed to destroy Earth, and succeed in destroying both the E-Bomb prototype and the Null-O's themselves.\n\nThe idea of humans without empathy is central in Dick's later works, such as \" Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?\".\n"}
{"id": "1839816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1839816", "title": "Ed Stewart", "text": "Ed Stewart\n\nEdward Stewart Mainwaring (23 April 1941 – 9 January 2016), known as Ed \"Stewpot\" Stewart, was an English broadcaster. He was principally known for his work as a DJ on BBC Radio 1 (particularly the Saturday morning \"Junior Choice\") and Radio 2 and as a presenter for \"Top of the Pops\" and \"Crackerjack\" on BBC Television.\n\nStewart was born Edward Stewart Mainwaring, the son of a Treasury solicitor, in Exmouth, Devon, on . He attended Eagle House School, Sandhurst, Berkshire and St Edward's School, Oxford, and his broadcasting career began in Hong Kong. While touring there as bass player with a jazz group, he gained a job on a local radio station as a sports commentator, then as an announcer and, finally, as a disc jockey. He remained at this station for four years. In July 1965 Stewart became a DJ on the offshore radio station Radio London (Big L) where he became a household name before the marine offences bill was passed, and was its chief DJ by the time it closed on 14 August 1967.\n\nStewart began his broadcasting career on pirate station Radio London (Big L) in May, 1967. After Radio London shut down, Stewart became one of the first DJs to join Radio 1, presenting \"Happening Sunday\" and \"What's New\". In 1968, Stewart took over the weekend morning \"Junior Choice\" show, where he remained for a dozen years. The show was peppered with catch-phrase jingles such as \"'Ello Darlin'\", recorded by an unknown patient at a hospital in Billericay, and \"Happy Birthday to You\" sung by an eight-year-old boy, from a football club in Crosskeys, on the team coach after the match.\nIn 1968 he recorded the charity single \"I Like My Toys\", a cover of The Idle Race song, as \"Stewpot And Save The Children Fund Choir\".\n\nIn 1972 he also presented Radio 1's \"Sunday Sport\" show. One week in early 1972, he stood in for Alan Freeman on \"Pick of the Pops\", as well as sitting in for the likes of David Hamilton and Terry Wogan through the 1970s. On 10 September 1973 Stewart became the first presenter of Radio 1's \"Newsbeat\" programme.\n\nStewart became a regular presenter of the BBC television programme \"Top of the Pops\" in 1971. He also presented the children's programme \"Crackerjack\" from 1973 to 1979, and had a short-lived programme \"Ed and Zed\" in 1970.\n\nIn 1980 Stewart moved to Radio 2, presenting \"Family Favourites\" and the weekday afternoon programme from 2pm to 4pm. He was dropped from the line-up in October 1983. Stewart said he was \"shocked and disappointed\" by the decision of Radio 2 controller Bryant Marriott not to renew his contract.\n\nStewart moved to the commercial radio station Radio Mercury (now Heart FM), for six years, presenting their mid-morning show.\n\nStewart rejoined Radio 2 in 1991, first presenting a series of shows and then a regular Saturday afternoon show throughout the summer. In 1992, he once again presented weekday afternoons. This time, the show was broadcast from 3:30pm to 5pm, before moving to 3pm to 5pm in the spring of 1996 and 2pm to 5pm in the spring of 1998. In 1995, Stewart made radio history when he broadcast his Radio 2 show live from the summits of Ben Nevis and Snowdon, in aid of the Cystic Fibrosis Trust. The senior guide on the ascent, Wayne Naylor, said at the time that Ed Stewart had carried his own equipment and was accompanied by his wife.\n\nIn early July 1999, Stewart was taken off the weekday afternoon slot, and moved to his Sunday evening show from 5pm to 7pm. At the time the official word was that Stewart had decided to go into semi-retirement, however he later revealed in his autobiography that he was taken off from the programme by then controller Jim Moir. He was replaced in the afternoons by Steve Wright, who continues to host the show to this day. During this time, Stewart also became a stand in for Terry Wogan on the Breakfast show until around 2002.\n\nHis Sunday show was a blend of music and chat, plus listeners' letters and Where Are They Now?, a feature that attempts to re-unite old friends who have lost touch with each other. The show ran until Stewart left Radio 2 in April 2006, not long after his autobiography was published in which he questioned the position of his colleagues Sarah Kennedy and Johnnie Walker on the network. Walker replaced him on Sunday afternoons.\n\nStewart was back for Radio 2's 40th birthday on Sunday 30 September 2007, hosting \"Junior Choice\". The revival was so successful, that Stewart returned to present \"Junior Choice\" on Christmas Eve that year, which led to him hosting further editions of \"Junior Choice\" on Christmas Day from 2008 to 2015. Stewart also hosted the afternoon show on Radio Bristol for two days in the run up to Christmas 2001, and also appeared on the Ken Bruce show's Pop Master quiz on Radio 2 on 2 October 2007. Anneka Rice replaced Stewart on the Christmas edition of \"Junior Choice\", from 2017 onwards, after a hiatus in 2016 following his death.\n\nIn February 2005, Stewart took over the weekday afternoon show on Spectrum FM, an English-speaking radio station that broadcasts to Spain.\n\nStewart was heard on Big L 1395 covering for David Hamilton on 18 December 2006, and also in January 2007. He also covered for Mike Read there in March 2007. He presented special shows on Classic Gold on Christmas Day 2006, New Year's Day 2007 and also May Day Bank Holiday Monday 2007. He did a one-off Sunday morning show (10am2pm) on KCFM in September 2008. He also stood in for Shaun Tilley on his programme \"I Haven't Heard It For Ages\" (2pm4pm) on Sundays on KCFM 2008/9.\n\nFrom February 2009 to September 2009 Stewart presented on Saturday and Sunday mornings between 9am and noon on Internet radio station Wight FM (this was voicetracked).\n\nStewart also stood in for Shaun Tilley on the networked show The Retro Chart Years for a week in August 2009 and again in 2010. He also appeared on another of Shaun Tilley's shows The Vintage Top 40 Show, which goes out on various BBC local stations on Sundays at 5pm.\n\nIn 2014, he took part in a Radio Legends week on BBC Sussex and BBC Surrey.\n\nFor many years Stewart was the figurehead for children's magazine \"Look-in\", the \"Junior \"TV Times\"\". Starting in 1971 with a feature on a day in his life, he was brought in as a regular with a feature called \"'Stewpot's Look-out\", which later became \"'Stewpot's Newsdesk\". They also used his name in other features such as \"Stewpot's Starchart\". Newsdesk ended in 1980, as did Stewart's association with the magazine.\n\nThe voice saying \"Excuse me, may I have the pleasure of this dance?\" on the original 1973 single \"Won't Somebody Dance with Me\" by Lynsey de Paul was Stewart's.\n\nStewart's two main interests were playing golf (he often met listeners of his programme who volunteered to caddy for him) and football; he was a supporter of Everton F.C.\n\nIn 1975 Stewart was inducted into the entertainment fraternity, the Grand Order of Water Rats.\n\nWhile working for Jimmy Henney, Stewart met his future wife, the then 13-year-old daughter of Henney. The couple married four years later in London on 2 July 1974, but split up in November 2003 and divorced in 2005. The couple had a daughter and a son.\n\nFrom 2004 until his death, Stewart's partner was Elly. She accompanied him on many of his appearances and was with him in the studio for his last edition of his children's show \"Junior Choice\" on BBC Radio 2 on Christmas Day 2015.\n\nHe was a close friend of Max Bygraves. On Bygraves's death in 2012 he recalled him as a \"unique talent\" whose skills as a comedian, actor and singer \"brought a lot of pleasure to a lot of people\".\n\nStewart was also an advocate and supporter of Phab Ltd, a charity operating in England and Wales which promotes inclusion for children and adults with disabilities. Stewart attended annual events held to raise awareness of Phab's work.\n\nFrom September 2008 Stewart was the presenter of Mantovani concerts, featuring the Magic of Mantovani Orchestra, which took place at the Lighthouse in Poole, and at the Pavilion Theatre in Bournemouth. On the first two of these, he was joined by co-presenter, Alexandra Bastedo. Also connected with those concerts are his contributions to the filmed documentary \"Mantovani, King of Strings\" (Odeon Entertainment) IMDb and on the Radio 2 programme \"Mantovani\" by Michael Freedland, broadcast 3 days before his death on 6 January 2016.\n\nAt the time of his death, Stewart was planning to do a Stewpot Music Quiz tour of the UK with UK quiz promoters Quiz Britain, with his last charity quiz appearance at Walhampton Arms on 6 November 2015 for a local Hampshire hospice.\n\nJust 2 weeks after hosting the 2015 Christmas Day edition of Junior Choice on BBC Radio 2, Stewart died suddenly, aged 74, on 9 January 2016 in hospital in Bournemouth after suffering a major stroke a few days earlier.\n\nOn 10 February 2016 BBC Radio 2 broadcast an hour-long tribute to Stewart introduced by Anneka Rice, who went on to take over the Christmas Day edition of Junior Choice, starting the following year.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1839826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1839826", "title": "Orbital (1993 album)", "text": "Orbital (1993 album)\n\nOrbital (also known as Orbital 2 or the Brown Album) is the eponymous second studio album by English electronic music duo Orbital, released on 24 May 1993 by Internal and FFRR Records.\n\nThe album peaked at number 28 on the UK Albums Chart.\n\nOn \"Orbital\" the duo aimed to make more atmospheric music than the dance raves of their first album. They used more complex rhythms and denser arrangements on the appropriately named pieces entitled \"Lush\" but still proving themselves capable of making quality pop music on \"Halcyon + On + On\", with vocals from Kirsty Hawkshaw of Opus III.\n\nThe album begins with \"Time Becomes\", which uses the same speech sample by the actor Michael Dorn in \"\" (Time squared - season 2 episode 13, Worf - 20'30 : \"There is the theory of the Möbius. A twist in the fabric of space where time becomes a loop\") which opened their first album. The piece uses phasing, a technique popularized by Steve Reich, in which two identical samples are repeated at slightly different speeds. The brothers enjoy aural puns, and the use of the sample from \"Star Trek: The Next Generation\" (which appeared on the opening of their first album) was meant to play with listeners by making them believe for a few seconds that they had bought a mispressing. The muffled intro on \"Planet of the Shapes\" has the intentional addition of record static and crackles, followed by the sound of a needle skipping grooves then scratching across the record, also meant to trick fans who bought the vinyl edition, by making them think their copy was less than perfect.\n\nThe second song on the album, \"Planet of the Shapes\", contains a sample from the movie \"Withnail & I\" (\"even a stopped clock gives the right time twice a day\"). \"Impact\" also samples a line from \"a French film dubbed into English\" with a \"conspiracy, alien plot\" that the band no longer remembers the name of. \n\nMeat Beat Manifesto were an influence on the album, after Orbital toured with the group in the United States ahead of recording it. The breakbeat on \"Impact\" was provided by Jack Dangers and \"Remind\" is an instrumental re-recording of Orbital's \"Mind the Bend the Mind\" remix of \"Mindstream\" by Meat Beat Manifesto, which removed all elements of \"Mindstream\" from the piece. The remix and final work was inspired by the Fabio Paras remix of React 2 Rhythm's I Know You Like It.\n\n\"Walk Now...\" samples the sound of a Sydney zebra crossing alert and a didgeridoo, which were both recorded after a trip to Australia to perform at an illegal rave named Welcome 92. \n\n\"Halcyon + On + On\" and parts of \"Lush 3-2\" were used in the 1995 \"Mortal Kombat\" film soundtrack.\n\nThe album received widespread acclaim. In the UK, \"NME\" praised the record, saying, \"The techno album is a doughty brute to master. Only a few have managed it successfully [...] but Phil and Paul Hartnoll have done it twice... The expression 'intelligent ambience' is bandied around to describe spacey dance music with undue regularity, but \"Untitled\" actually satisfies the description. Scientific and terrific.\" \"Q\" also recognised that the duo had made a second successful album, saying, \"Like their first album, Orbital's current effort is a finely balanced combination of muso trickery and astute dance tracks... Again, like the latter, it benefits from repeated listening.\" \"Melody Maker\" claimed that \"This new album (untitled, like the first) puts them firmly back in the firmament\". In a reference to the most talked about band at the time of the album's release, Suede and their sexually ambiguous frontman Brett Anderson, and including a pun on \"Anarchy in the U.K.\", the debut single by the Sex Pistols, the review concluded, \"As warm as plasma and as eerie as ectoplasm, Orbital's (out-of-)body-music is the true sound of Androgyny-in-the-UK.\" \"Vox\" observed that \"this collection sees Paul and Phil Hartnoll drifting still further into the heart of the machine, touching upon the sometimes fragile soul of Techno\", before declaring that \"Orbital are still leading the field\".\n\nThis album is included in the book 1001 Albums You Must Hear Before You Die alongside their 1994 LP 'Snivilisation'. It (along with the \"In Sides\" album) was also included in \"Q\" magazine's \"90 Best albums of the 1990s\". In 1996, \"Mixmag\" ranked the album at number 9 in its list of the \"50 Best Dance Albums of All Time\". In 1999, Ned Raggett ranked the album at number 21 on his list of \"The Top 136 or So Albums of the Nineties\".\n\n\nAll track names except 1 and 10 are stylized in all capital letters.\n\nOn cassette, \"Planet of the Shapes\" was re-titled \"Planet of the Tapes\" and placed as the first song on side 2, before \"Walk Now...\" in the track listing; the track is identical\n\n"}
{"id": "1839832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1839832", "title": "Fenrir (moon)", "text": "Fenrir (moon)\n\nFenrir , or Saturn XLI (provisional designation S/2004 S 16), is a natural satellite of Saturn. Its discovery was announced by Scott S. Sheppard, David C. Jewitt, Jan Kleyna, and Brian G. Marsden on May 4, 2005, from observations taken between December 13, 2004, and March 5, 2005. Fenrir has an apparent magnitude of 25, making it one of the faintest known moons in the Solar System, and was discovered using some of the largest telescopes in the world. It is even too dark to be observed by the Cassini spacecraft in orbit around Saturn, for which it never gets brighter than approximately 17th apparent magnitude. Fenrir was named after Fenrisulfr, a giant wolf from Norse mythology, father of Hati and Skoll, son of Loki, destined to break its bonds for Ragnarök.\n\nFenrir is about 4 kilometres in diameter, and orbits Saturn at an average distance of 22,454 Mm in 1260 days, at an inclination of 163° to the ecliptic (143° to Saturn's equator) with an eccentricity of 0.136. The Fenrian orbit is retrograde: it orbits Saturn in a direction opposite to the planet's spin, suggesting that this irregular moon was captured by Saturn.\n\n"}
{"id": "1839835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1839835", "title": "Parrot Cay", "text": "Parrot Cay\n\nParrot Cay is an island in the Turks and Caicos Islands. The island contains about of land, a mile-long beach and features a high-end beach resort with 61 rooms. Parrot Cay became a private island resort in 1998. It is located about south east of Miami, and can be reached by a 35-minute boat ride from Providenciales, the main island in Turks and Caicos.\n\nParrot Cay was originally created by a Kuwaiti family in 1988, who built the large structure that now functions as the resort's main building. The Gulf War affected the finances of this family, and it remained empty until it was bought over and remade into a resort in 1998 by Singaporean hotelier Christina Ong for her COMO Hotels and Resorts group. It is said that her daughter Melissa Ong discovered the island during a diving trip.\n\nThe island was originally named Pirate Cay because of a local legend that famous female pirate Anne Bonny camped here in the 1720s. It was renamed Parrot Cay as to not frighten visitors.\n\nParrot Cay's main resort contains 61 rooms, including beach houses and villas. Two restaurants are located on the island: the south-east Asian inspired \"Lotus\" and the Italian-Mediterranean \"Terrace\".\n\nActivities include diving, snorkeling, and wellness programs like yoga and Pilates at the COMO Shambhala retreat.\n\nIn addition to the resort's rooms, there is a collection of private villas and beach houses located a short distance from the resort in a location called Rocky Point. The villas can be purchased from a starting price of US$10 million, while the beach houses start from US$5 million. Owners of private homes in Parrot Cay include Keith Richards, Donna Karan, and Bruce Willis.\n\nKeith Richards has been quoted as saying he'd relocate his family to his Parrot Cay retreat if he knew his death was coming, and just \"hang out\".\n\nBecause of its secluded location and the privacy it provides, Parrot Cay has become very popular with many celebrities. Guests have included Paul McCartney, Justin Timberlake, Barbra Streisand, Penélope Cruz, Julia Roberts and Phil Collins, and it has also hosted the weddings of Ben Affleck and Jennifer Garner in 2005.\n\nParrot Cay is frequently featured as the location of an ongoing celebrity death hoax on fake news site \"Global Associated News\". The fake news report would claim that a celebrity had died after sustaining injuries in a jet-ski accident in Parrot Cay, even though there are no jet-skis in Parrot Cay. Celebrities that have supposedly died in Parrot Cay according to this hoax include Ted Nugent, Ja Rule, Chad Kroeger and Vince Vaughn.\n\n"}
{"id": "1839836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1839836", "title": "Defense blood standard system", "text": "Defense blood standard system\n\nThe Defense Blood Standard System (DBSS) is a FDA-regulated, Class II Medical Device designed to handle blood collection, processing and tracking procedures, and automation of standards and safeguards for the Military Health System (MHS) blood supply. It is identified by the FDA as a Blood Establishment Software item.\n\nThe DBSS supports the Armed Services Blood Program Office, which manages the blood program for the Department of Defense, and services more than 8.7 million MHS beneficiaries.\n"}
{"id": "1839837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1839837", "title": "The Last of the Masters", "text": "The Last of the Masters\n\n\"The Last of the Masters\" (also known as \"Protection Agency\") is a science fiction novelette by American writer Philip K. Dick. The original manuscript of the story was received by the Scott Meredith Literary Agency on July 15, 1953, and the story was published by the Hanro Corporation in the final issue of \"Orbit Science Fiction\" in 1954. It has since been reprinted in several Philip K. Dick story collections, beginning with \"The Golden Man\" in 1980.\n\n\"The Last of the Masters\" depicts a society 200 years after a global anarchist revolution has toppled the national governments of the world (the exact year is unstated). Civilization has stagnated due to the loss of scientific knowledge and industry during the now-legendary revolt. Elsewhere, the last state, governing a highly centralized and efficient society, conceals itself from the Anarchist League, a global militia preventing the recreation of any government. When three agents of the League are sent to investigate rumors of the microstate's existence, the government arranges for them to be killed, leading to the death of one and the capture of another. Tensions rapidly escalate after the agents of the state realize that the third has escaped. Assuming he will report the state's existence, the government mobilizes for total war. In actuality, the surviving anarchist elects to attempt his comrades' rescue and assassinate the head of state: the last surviving \"government robot\".\n\nThe primary theme of the story is the conflict between anarchism and statism, the political and ethical dimensions of which are explored through the characters' dialogue. Though the attention the story received was limited prior to the author's death in 1982, it has since seen greater circulation in Philip K. Dick story collections, and has been reviewed and analyzed for its postmodern critique of technology and its political implications.\n\nThe title character, Bors, a 200-year-old \"government integration robot\"—and the last in existence—awakens after a routine maintenance check to learn that his motor system is in a state of decline. An artificially intelligent machine who displays a degree of emotion and even psychological complexity, he is informed by Fowler, a personal mechanic, that his body has begun to break down due to age. His legs no longer work, his motor system will be irreparable in a matter of months, and full paralysis will take place in under a year.\n\nOf his entire body, only five \"synapse coils\" have not yet begun to degrade. These memory units are irreplaceable due to the lack of skilled technicians and rare components needed to recreate them. Within them, he stores the last records of advanced science and technology, which he uses to guide his society at high efficiency as a benevolent dictator, operating according to utilitarian principles. Though he wields hegemonic control over his society, he views his dictatorship as the last bastion of humanity's scientific progress, and views himself as a guardian who oversees and protects that progress. This causes him to privately despair that he—and the knowledge only he possesses—will soon die. He also becomes increasingly paranoid, fearing to trust a loyal assistant, Peter Green, and confiding only in Fowler, his personal mechanic.\n\nHidden in a remote mountain valley, Bors commands the world's last government. The microstate is tightly centralized around him, and he manages it bureaucratically for optimum efficiency in all sectors of the economy and military. The effect is \"an accurate and detailed reproduction of a society two centuries gone.\" Bors is immediately established as an utterly necessary figure in his society and is quickly escorted back into service as the leader of the government by Fowler. A personal assistant as well as mechanic to Bors, Fowler maintains a pretension of loyalty to the robot, but privately recognizes that his society is stagnant and that its leader is becoming mentally unbalanced. Pessimistic, he expresses cynicism regarding the subservient role humans in his society play to Bors. He is contrasted with Peter Green, a genuinely loyal assistant to the robot, who is among the few humans trusted to oversee his body while it is unconscious for repair. Though loyal to his leader, Green nonetheless draws Bors' distrust as the robot's paranoia steadily grows.\n\nElsewhere, three members of the \"Anarchist League\" are on a mission to investigate rumors of a government in existence near a remote mountain valley. The League is a global organization dedicated to seeking out and eradicating governments. Established at some unknown point during or after the global revolt, the League is organized around \"League camps\" which dot the landscape. Members of the League are easily recognized by their \"ironite staffs\": metallic walking sticks which they are trained in using as weapons. These tools are a symbol of the League—\"the walking Anarchists who patrolled the world on foot, the world's protection agency.\"\n\nThe three member team is composed of Edward Tolby, his daughter, Silvia Tolby (of unspecified age, but vaguely described as an adolescent or young adult), and their mutual friend, Robert Penn. While en route to the valley, the team arrives in a small rural town by the name of Fairfax. Fairfax is littered with ancient, decaying gadgets; the last remnants of the era of governments and high tech society, which none of the locals know how to fix or reproduce. Excited by the strangers, the locals ask about the League. Tolby answers their questions in turn, ending with an explanation of the timeline of events which led up to the great revolt. The event is summarized as having begun with revolts in Europe which overthrow the national governments. After France exists for a month free of government, millions join the by then explicitly anarchist movement to disarm the nuclear powers. At each toppled government center, millions of records are burned and government integration robots are destroyed. These events result in the setting of the story; a world full of anachronistic high-technology, interspersed in a pre-industrialized, agrarian culture.\n\nWhile retelling the story of the anarchist revolution, Tolby attracts the attention of a local who invites the trio of anarchists to her home, but who is in secret a government spy ordered to kill them. The ensuing assassination plot is bungled, as the spy dies in the process, but succeeds in killing Penn. Silvia is also badly injured and left unconscious. Her father survives the tragedy largely unscathed, however, and awakens as a patrol of military scouts arrives. The scouts panic after a brief counterattack by Tolby and retreat with Silvia captive. After re-arming himself, Tolby sets out to mount her rescue.\n\nBors is alerted to the situation and overreacts upon learning that one of the three anarchists has escaped. Fearing that the agent will alert the world to their existence, he initiates plans for a war economy and decides to question Silvia in her hospital room. Their dialogue reveals the story of his escape during the collapse of governments and the establishment of the microstate. He was damaged and in transport for repairs when the anarchist revolution began 200 years prior, allowing him to survive in hiding. Enraged by his calm indifference to the prospect of war, Silvia attacks him and attempts her escape, but is restrained by guards.\n\nTolby infiltrates the mountain valley, sneaking past the rapidly mobilizing army of the state. After killing and outmaneuvering inexperienced soldiers, he arrives at the government center and encounters Fowler. Fowler alludes to his desire to end the government and spurs Tolby onward. Ultimately, Tolby confronts and kills Bors, sending the building into confusion as the citizens react with hysteria and grief. The condition is implied to spread outward from the city to troops in the hills, resulting in mass desertion. No longer resisted by guards, Tolby reunites with Silvia. The story concludes as Fowler secretly salvages three remaining synapse coils from Bors' remains, \"just in case the times change\".\nThe exact date Philip K. Dick wrote \"The Last of the Masters\" is unknown, but the original manuscript of the novelette was received by the Scott Meredith Literary Agency on July 15, 1953. 25 years old at the time, Dick was in the habit of submitting a new story to the agency weekly. Just prior to receiving \"Last of the Masters\", the agency received \"The Turning Wheel\" on July 8, and following the former, the agency received \"The Father-thing\" on July 21.\n\"The Last of the Masters\" was published over a year later, in the 1954 November/December issue of \"Orbit Science Fiction\" no.5. The issue was the last in a science fiction anthology series edited by Donald A. Wollheim. \"Orbit Science Fiction\" advertised \"The Last of the Masters\" on its cover and included Dick among an advertised list of prominent contributing authors, among them August Derleth, Gordon R. Dickson, and Chad Oliver. The novelette was republished in 1958 for the Australian market by Jubilee Publications Pty., in \"Space Station 42 and Other Stories\", a part of the \"Satellite Series\".\n\nThe novelette was not published again until the 1980 release of \"The Golden Man\", the sixth collection of classic stories by Dick. This collection also included the only commentary Dick ever wrote regarding the story.\n\nWhile \"The Last of the Masters\" was little noticed in the years immediately following its publication, it was reviewed after its 1980 publication in \"The Golden Man\" collection. Fellow science fiction writer Thomas M. Disch reviewed Dick's \"The Golden Man\" collection among other works in \"Fluff and Fizzles\", an essay dated to 1979, but published in a 1980 edition of \"The Magazine of Fantasy and Science Fiction\". While celebrating several stories in the collection, and proclaiming to readers the \"categorical imperative\" of buying a copy, he nonetheless derided most of its contents as \"turkeys\", citing specifically \"The Last of the Masters\" as an example. Referring to the story as \"a hyperkinetic foray into hairy-chested-style hugger-mugger\", Disch also mocked its \"action-packed denouement\" involving Edward Tolby as an example of \"bogus machismo\".\n\nIn her 1982 review of the \"Golden Man\" collection, Hazel Pierce lauded the sophistication of the story, summarizing the theme of \"The Last of the Masters\" as an examination of \"the paradoxical cast of human existence.\"\n\nIn his 1980 commentary on the story, Dick also suggested that his reasoning for making Bors sympathetic was a result of a form of trust he advanced towards robots, as opposed to androids. \"Perhaps\", he suggested, \"it's because a robot does not try to deceive you as to what it is\". One of the themes that runs throughout all of Dick's fiction is the \"power of empathy\" and he uses it as the \"key element defining the authentic human being\". For example, when Silvia meets the robot that runs the government, she exclaims \"My God, you have no understanding of us. You run all this, and you're incapable of empathy. You're nothing but a mechanical computer.\"\n\nChristopher Palmer, of La Trobe University, has written on the postmodern literary themes of Dick's early short stories, analyzing stories in which \"breakdown and ignorance\" are the result of social upheaval. Palmer proposed that Dick often created post-apocalyptic scenarios of ruined worlds which held high tech gadgets in an attempt to present a view of postmodern materialism. Common to many of Dick's short stories were settings in which the outgrowth of modernity is a world where that which is natural is in ruin, and what is artificial is reshaped through science into a fantastically high tech form. Palmer presented \"The Last of the Masters\" as an example of this, as well as \"The Variable Man\" and \"The Penultimate Truth\", two other post-apocalyptic works by Dick. Palmer contended that these shared themes were \"...not simply the expression of dystopian malaise, or of Luddism treacherously taking up residence in popular SF... It points to a coherent interpretation of industrialism and post-industrialism.\"\n\nSuggesting that many of the philosophical and political underpinnings of the author's short stories stemmed from his views on domestic life, Palmer's focus turned to Dick's common use of sterility as a metaphor. In \"The Gun\", \"Second Variety\", \"The Penultimate Truth\", and \"The Last of the Masters\", people and sometimes the earth itself have been driven to sterility. As Palmer noted of \"The Last of the Masters\", Bors can be interpreted as a symbol of infertility: \"It is not clear why he does not replicate himself, or educate his human servants: it is simply a given that he is sterile. The old, technologically advanced, highly organized civilization is a civilization of production, but now under Bors it can do no more than maintain itself.\" Following an inspection of other short stories with similar references to sterility, Palmer asserts that Dick's work presented a social and existential protest. Palmer interpreted Dick's social critique to be that if the act of creation validates existence, and genuinely expresses a form of individuality, then the process of reproduction is alienating, oppressive, and retards an individual's liberty. As Palmer explains, \"...this process disempowers consumers, and even technocrats, by making them dependent on a process of which they have become entirely ignorant.\" Existentially, Palmer interpreted Dick to further mean that reproduction violated the author's concept of what made an object unique and valuable: \"A thing can't be a real thing unless it is in some sense an individual thing.\"\n\nIn writing a biography on the author, Brian Stableford placed several of Dick's short stories in a context that established their relationship to the author's personal hardships. \"...it always seemed to him [Philip K. Dick] that his career was a catalogue of undeserved disappointments and the record of his published work a travesty of his true ambitions.\" The personal problems which Dick struggled throughout his life provided fuel for several of the anxiety driven themes for his short stories. In Dick's early work, Stableford highlighted recurring themes in those most popular. These included paranoid suspicions; the dangerous hostility of \"seemingly innocent entities\"; and \"the mechanization of the environment and the computerization of political decision-making\". Stories in which androids and robots are a danger to the protagonist include \"Autofac\", \"Colony\", and \"Vulcan's Hammer\". However, \"The Last of the Masters\", Stableford contends, was an exception to Dick's common dystopic portrayals of technology, given Stableford's interpretation of Bors as an altruist, who was \"benign\" in its role.\n\nIn his 1980 commentary, Philip K. Dick pointed out the moral ambiguity of the story, laying out its political implications: \"Should we have a leader or should we think for ourselves? Obviously the latter, in principle. But – sometimes there lies a gulf between what is theoretically right and that which is practical.\" This quote became part of a larger political analysis of Dick's work in \"How Much Does Chaos Scare You?\" by Aaron Barlow, Associate Professor of English at New York City College of Technology. In analyzing Dick's short fiction, Barlow presented their themes against the backdrop of post-September 11, 2001 America. In particular, Barlow compared many of the philosophical underpinnings of Neoconservatism, and its rise to prominence during the George W. Bush administration, to the philosophy of Philip K. Dick. \"To [Dick],\" writes Barlow, \"the elites were both alien and dangerous. To him, the focus of vision and of political debate should never be on the rulers, but on the little person, the shopkeeper, the mechanic.\" In his dissection of Dick's work, Barlow compared several stories in which normal humans lose some form of liberty in their society to an elite group. Examples presented include \"Autofac\", \"Null-O\", and \"Some Kinds of Life\". From these stories, Barlow drew three themes important to Dick's anti-government writings: first, that humanity is often doomed by institutions of power created by the humans themselves; second, that paranoia is a natural aspect of governance, as \"[n]o elite can ever completely trust the people it governs,\" and this distrust leaves a governed people in perpetual danger; and third, that the belief that individuality must be sacrificed—either for the sake of social stability or survival—is a constant threat. \"To Dick,\" Barlow adds, \"there are few attitudes more dangerous than this.\" Each of these themes would be revisited in \"The Last of the Masters\".\n\nContinuing his analysis, Barlow addressed \"The Last of the Masters\", contrasting it with an earlier work by Dick, \"The Defenders\". In \"The Defenders\", humanity has been duped by a noble lie—provided by their robot soldiers—into believing in a war which is not actually taking place. In the latter story, Barlow asserts that Dick surprisingly agreed with such neoconservative theorists as Leo Strauss in the efficacy of the deception. \"Here, the [robots] have saved mankind... The 'noble lie' has served its purpose.\" However, Barlow concedes, \"[b]ut this is an extremely early story and Dick had not yet clarified his own world view...\" Comparing this story to \"The Last of the Masters\", Barlow took note of Dick's commentary from \"The Golden Man\" collection (\"...sometimes there lies a gulf between what is theoretically right and that which is practical.\") and concluded that the story represented Dick's understanding of \"the problems at the other extreme...\" in politics. Where most of Dick's stories presented government in skeptical terms to warn the reader of potential abuse, \"The Last of the Master\" presented an argument for the utility of government.\n\nBarlow dissected the Anarchist League and \"the contradictory nature of their organization\" which patrolled a \"poor and dirty\" world, and juxtaposed this with the \"opulent organization of the (state)\". In particular, he highlighted dialogue by the robot master, Bors, as illustrating the importance of his leadership to the success of the micro-state. In the story, a conversation with a mechanic leads the robot to state, \"You know I'm the only one who can keep all this together. I'm the only one who knows how to maintain a planned society, not a disorderly chaos! If it weren't for me, all this would collapse, and you'd have dust and ruins and weeds. The whole outside would come rushing in to take over!\" Barlow concluded that while the story ended in triumph for the anarchists, the story did not go so far as to validate their society. \"Dick does not vindicate them,\" writes Barlow, \"keeping it clear that the robot had certainly accomplished something in that valley, though it had eventually gone too far.\"\n\nIn a commentary made for the 1980 anthology, \"The Golden Man\", Philip K. Dick briefly touched on several themes of the story, including the Christian allegory of the \"suffering servant\", manifested in the character of Bors. This was touched upon in the Dick biography \"Divine Invasions\", by memoirist and biographer Lawrence Sutin. Drawing on Dick's commentary, Sutin sees Bors as part of a religious pattern in Dick's stories as a \"Christ-like robot\", and likens the robot to characters in other stories by Dick who suffer from illness.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1839838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1839838", "title": "Fornjot (moon)", "text": "Fornjot (moon)\n\nFornjot or Saturn XLII is the second outermost natural satellite of Saturn (after S/2004 S 26). Its discovery was announced by Scott S. Sheppard, David C. Jewitt, Jan Kleyna, and Brian G. Marsden on 4 May 2005 from observations taken between 12 December 2004, and 11 March 2005.\n\nIt is about 6 kilometres in diameter, and it orbits Saturn at an average distance of 23,609 Mm in 1354 at an inclination of 168° to the ecliptic (160° to Saturn's equator) in a retrograde direction and with an eccentricity of 0.186. It has an ambiguous rotation period of 7 or hours.\n\nFornjot was named after Fornjót, a giant in Norse mythology.\n\n"}
{"id": "1839840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1839840", "title": "Hermann Roesler", "text": "Hermann Roesler\n\nCarl Friedrich Hermann Roesler (18 December 1834 – 2 December 1894) was a German legal scholar, economist, and foreign advisor to the Meiji period Empire of Japan.\n\nIn 1878, Roesler was invited by the government of Japan to serve as an advisor on international law to the Foreign Ministry. One compelling reason for his choice to move to Japan was due to his conversion to Roman Catholicism in 1878, Roesler faced dismissal from service in Mecklenburg due to his religion. A timely meeting with Japanese ambassador to Germany, Aoki Shūzō introduced Roesler to a new opportunity, and Roesler became one of several legal experts from Germany and France working on development of the Japanese legal system.\n\nIn 1884, Roesler became an adviser to the Japanese Cabinet. As the request of Itō Hirobumi Roesler assisted Inoue Kowashi and took an influential role in the preparation of the draft of the Japanese Commercial Code and the Constitution of the Empire of Japan. \n\nFrom the time of the Iwakura mission, the Japanese ruling oligarchy had evaluated the various forms of government extant in Europe and America and were most impressed by the Austro-Germano-Prussian model, based on theories by Lorenz von Stein and Rudolf von Gneist and the organization of Prussian government designed by Albert Mosse. Roesler expanded on these theories, by recommending a constitutional monarchy in which the monarch was head of state, but not constrained by the legislature, whose primary responsibility was to provide advice and consent to the Emperor's rule, and not to govern the country or to promulgate laws. Moreover, sovereignty was with the Emperor and not with the people.\n\nRoesler remained in Japan until 1893. While in Japan, relationship with the German legation in Japan and his socialization with the German expatriate community was almost non-existent.\n\nAfter leaving Japan, Roesler and his family moved to Bolzano, then part of Austria-Hungary where he died shortly after.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1839848", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1839848", "title": "DaimlerChrysler Commercial Buses North Carolina", "text": "DaimlerChrysler Commercial Buses North Carolina\n\nDaimlerChrysler Commercial Buses North Carolina is an American bus manufacturer. It is subsidiary of Daimler AG, \n\nIn 1999, Thomas Dennis was formed as a joint venture between Thomas Built Buses of the United States (51%) and Dennis of England (49%).\n\nIf manufactured a version of the Dennis Dart, engineered for the North American market, in a new facility located in Greensboro, North Carolina. The SLF200 was reengineered in 2002 to use a Mercedes-Benz engine and electrics. Dennis had hoped to develop a 40 ft transit bus, but instead DaimlerChrysler subsequently bought Orion Bus Industries. As a result, Dennis sold its stake and the company was renamed DaimlerChrysler Commercial Buses North Carolina in 2003.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1839851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1839851", "title": "Canadian Car and Foundry", "text": "Canadian Car and Foundry\n\nCanadian Car and Foundry (CC&F), also variously known as \"Canadian Car & Foundry\" or more familiarly as \"Can Car\", manufactured buses, railroad rolling stock and later aircraft for the Canadian market. CC&F history goes back to 1897, but the main company was established in 1909 from an amalgamation of several companies and later became part of Hawker Siddeley Canada through the purchase by A.V. Roe Canada in 1957. Today the remaining factories are part of Bombardier Transportation Canada.\n\nCanadian Car & Foundry (CC&F) was established in 1909 in Montreal as the result of an amalgamation of three companies:\nIn 1911 the CC&F Board of Directors recognized that the company could improve its efficiency if they were able to produce their own steel castings, a component that was becoming common to all their products. They purchased Montreal Steel Works Limited at Longue-Pointe, the largest producer of steel castings in Canada, and the Ontario Iron & Steel Company, Ltd. at Welland, ON, which included both a steel foundry and a rolling mill.\n\nBuses were produced at Fort William, Ontario and railcars in Montreal and Amherst. Streetcars were manufactured between 1897 and 1913, however the company focused exclusively on rebuilding existing streetcars after 1913.\n\nA few years later, CC&F acquired the assets of Pratt & Letchworth, a Brantford, ON, rail car manufacturer. In the latter part of World War I, the expanding company opened a new plant in Fort William (now Thunder Bay) to manufacture rail cars and ships which included the French minesweepers \"Inkerman\" and \"Cerisoles\" which were both lost in Lake Superior; the Amherst plant started by Rhodes & Curry in Amherst was closed in 1931. In an attempt to enter the aviation market, CC&F produced a small series of Grumman fighter aircraft under licence and developed an unsuccessful, indigenous-designed fighter aircraft, the Gregor FDB-1.\n\nDuring World War I, CC&F had signed large contracts with Russia and Britain for delivery of ammunition. An enormous factory was constructed in the Kingsland to assemble, package, and prepare artillery shells for shipment to foreign ports. No shells were manufactured there. On January 11, 1917, a fire started in one of the buildings. In four hours, the fire spread to the approximately 500,000 pieces of 76.2 mm (3 inch) -high explosive shells stored there, causing several explosions, destroying the entire plant. The explosion launched artillery shells and building debris across the area, destroying several homes and businesses in the nearby towns of Haskell, Pompton Lakes, and Midvale. The total loss, including the ordnance, was estimated at $16,750,000 (equivalent to $ million in ).\n\nCanadian Car and Foundry had a contract to build twelve minesweepers for the French Navy. The vessels were completed in October and November 1918—before the war ended, but too late to see operational service. Two of the vessels, the \"Cerisoles\" and the \"Inkerman\", were lost in a November gale, on Lake Superior, on their maiden voyage. Other vessels were sold into civilian service.\n\nBy 1939, with war on the horizon, Canadian Car & Foundry and its Chief Engineer, Elsie MacGill, were contracted by the Royal Air Force to produce the Hawker Hurricane (Marks X, XI and XII). Refinements introduced by MacGill on the Hurricane included skis and de-icing gear. When the production of the Hurricane was complete in 1943, CC&F's workforce of 4,500 (half of them women) had built over 1,400 aircraft, about 10% of all Hurricanes built.\n\nFollowing the success of the Hurricane contract, CC&F sought out and received a production order for the troublesome Curtiss SB2C Helldiver. Eventually, 834 Helldivers were produced by CC&F in various versions from SBW-1, SBW-1B, SBW-3,SBW-4E and SBW-5. Some of the Curtiss divebombers were sent directly to the Royal Navy under Lend-Lease arrangements. CC&F also built the North American AT-6 Texan/Harvard under licence, many of the aircraft being supplied to European air forces to train post war military pilots.\n\nIn 1944, the Canadian Car & Foundry built a revolutionary new aircraft in its Montreal shops - the Burnelli CBY-3, also called the \"Loadmaster\". There were two examples built of an aerofoil-fuselage design originally developed by Vincent J. Burnelli. The CBY-3 was never to enter full-scale production and was cancelled less than one year later.\n\nThe work of Canadian women building fighter and bomber aircraft at the plant during the Second World War is documented in the 1999 National Film Board of Canada documentary film \"Rosies of the North\".\n\nAfter the Second World War, the CC&F returned to its roots as a rail car manufacturer. They also made a successful leap into the streetcar business, supplying Montreal, Toronto, Regina, Calgary, Vancouver, Edmonton, and the Brazilian cities of Rio de Janeiro and São Paulo with various types of streetcars. The company concluded a licensing agreement with ACF-Brill (the successor to J. G. Brill) in 1944 to manufacture and sell throughout Canada buses and trolley coaches of ACF-Brill design as Canadian Car-Brill, in later years often written \"CCF-Brill\", for short. CC&F built 1,114 trolley buses and a few thousand buses under the name. Trolleybus production ended in 1954; Edmonton Transit System's No. 202, a 1954 CCF-Brill T48A, was the very last Brill trolleybus built for any city.\n\nProduction of the Brill diesel bus continued through the 1950s. In 1960, CC&F launched an entirely new TD bus design under the Canadian Car name to compete with the General Motors New Look model, but it was not successful and production was discontinued in 1962.\n\nIn 1957, wishing to diversify, the British Hawker Siddeley Group acquired CC&F through its Canadian subsidiary, A.V. Roe Canada Ltd.. In 1962, A.V. Roe Canada was dissolved when the Avro Arrow program was suddenly terminated, and its assets became part of Hawker Siddeley Canada. During the 1970s they introduced the BiLevel Coach heavy railway passenger car, which would go on to great success.\n\nIn the late 1970s and early 1980s the plant built 190 Canadian Light Rail Vehicles, for the Toronto Transit Commission, to replace its aging PCC streetcars.\n\nCCF re-emerged as Can-Car Rail in 1983 as a joint division between Hawker Siddeley Canada and UTDC. The Can-Car Rail operations were based in Thunder Bay. Sold to SNC-Lavalin in 1986, a financial shakeup led to the firm being returned to the Government of Ontario, and then quickly re-sold to Bombardier Transportation. Through a series of further acquisitions, mergers and rationalisations, CC&F faded from the annals of significant Canadian manufacturers, although the company still exists today as the Bombardier Transportation Canada Inc. railcar facility in Thunder Bay, Ontario.\n\n\"Transit\"\n\n\"Other\"\n\"Aircraft\"\n\n\nMany CC&F-built buses have been preserved as historic vehicles, some in operating condition. For example, the Transit Museum Society, in Vancouver, has at least seven CC&F buses in its collection, including two CC&F-Brill trolleybuses.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1839853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1839853", "title": "Hati (moon)", "text": "Hati (moon)\n\nHati or Saturn XLIII is a natural satellite of Saturn. Its discovery was announced by Scott S. Sheppard, David C. Jewitt, Jan Kleyna, and Brian G. Marsden on 4 May 2005, from observations taken between 12 December 2004 and 11 March 2005.\n\nHati is about 6 kilometers in diameter, and orbits Saturn at an average distance of 20,303 Mm in 1080 days, at an inclination of 163° to the ecliptic (165° to Saturn's equator), in a retrograde direction and with an eccentricity of 0.291. In March 2013, the synodic rotational period was measured by \"Cassini\" to about hours. This is the fastest known rotation of all of Saturn's moons.\n\nIt was named in April 2007 after Hati, a giant wolf from Norse mythology, son of Fenrisúlfr and twin brother of Sköll.\n\n"}
{"id": "1839854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1839854", "title": "Desktop organizer", "text": "Desktop organizer\n\nDesktop organizer software applications are applications that automatically create useful organizational structures from desktop content from heterogeneous types of content including email, files, contacts, companies, RSS news feeds, photos, music and chat sessions. The organization is based on a combination of automated scanning of metadata similar to data mining and manual tagging of content. The metadata stored in applications is correlated based on a structure for the data type handled by the organizer tool. For example, the email address of a sender of an email allows the email to be filed in a virtual folder for the author and company the author works for or a music file is filed by the musician and album label. The resulting visualization simplifies use of desktop content to navigate, search, and use related information stored on the desktop computer. The data in desktop organizer tools is normally stored in a database rather than the computer's file system in order to produce virtual folders where the same item can appear in multiple folders to the user based on its relationship to the folder.\n\nDesktop organizers are related to desktop search because both sets of tools allow users to locate desktop resources. The primary differences between the two are that desktop organizers perform post-search functionality related to the primary purpose of the organizer, offer manual taxonomy creation and tagging by the desktop user, and help gather additional related resources for taxonomy or related content from Internet resources.\n\nOrganization tools of contacts and correspondences involve the tracking and management of information stored in multiple communications tools. Due to the rise of computers for use in communications including email, VoIP applications like Skype, chat, web browsers, blogs, RSS and CRM content relating to companies and contacts is often spread across multiple applications. Desktop communications organizers collect and correlate information stored in these applications.\n\nCommon features of communications organizers include:\n\nAlso referred to as image viewers, picture organizers provide utilities to file and view pictures in folders and to tag pictures with metadata for future use. Picture organizers may also integrate with photo sharing sites that also organize pictures but through a social network. \n\nThere are two classes of picture organizers:\n\nPresently, many commercial image organization software offer both automatic and manual picture organization features. A comparison of image viewers reveals that many freely available software packages are available that offer most of the organization features available in commercial software. However, not all image viewers offer organizational tools. Popular picture organizers include Google's Picasa, DigiKam, Adobe Systems's Elements, Apple's iPhoto, Phase One's Media Pro 1 and Novell's F-spot.\n\nCommon key organizational tools provided by picture organizers are:\n\nMusic contains unique attributes such as artist, album, genre, era, and song title used to organize the songs. The desktop organization of music is primarily embedded into audio players and media players like Amarok, Rhythmbox, Banshee, MediaMonkey, Songbird, Apple's iTunes and Microsoft's Windows Media Player or Zune. Organization is used to create playlists, or to organize the media collection into a folder hierarchy, by specific artists, albums, or genres. \n\nAnother type of the music organizers allows user to organize his media collection directly without listening of music.\n\nBy connecting the audio players to databases of tagged music to compare a collection with a professionally organized and tagged collection of music, MP3 collections can be enhanced with metadata corrections to support the organization process when metadata is not complete in the original items.\n"}
{"id": "1839858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1839858", "title": "Ottawa Car Company", "text": "Ottawa Car Company\n\nThe Ottawa Car Company was a builder of streetcars for the Canadian market and was founded in Ottawa, Ontario, in 1891 as an outgrowth of the carriage building operations of William W. Wylie. Its plant was located at Kent and Slater Streets (south side of Slater between Kent and Lyon Streets - now site of Constitution Square) , a short distance from Parliament Hill. The company was a subsidiary of Ottawa Electric Railway, in turn controlled by Ahearn & Soper.\n\nIt was renamed Ottawa Car Manufacturing Company in 1917 and again as Ottawa Car and Aircraft Limited in 1937.\n\nThe Ahearn family retained control of the company until 1948 when they sold Ottawa Car & Aircraft Corporation (renamed during World War II) to the Mailman Corporation. The new owners never carried on the business and ceased operations as streetcars were being abandoned by cities across North America. The city of Ottawa abandoned its own streetcar network in 1959. The company produced a total of about 1700 vehicles.\n\nOn 19 August 1994 Canada Post issued 88¢ stamps featuring Ottawa Car Company Streetcar, 1894, Saint John Railway Co. Car #40.\n\nStreetcars\n\nAircraft\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1839872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1839872", "title": "Newington College", "text": "Newington College\n\nNewington College is a multi-campus independent Uniting Church single-sex and co-educational early learning, primary and secondary day and boarding school for boys, located in Stanmore, an inner-western suburb of Sydney, New South Wales, Australia. Established in 1863 at Newington House, Silverwater, the College celebrated its sesquicentenary in 2013. The college is open to boys of all faiths and denominations. Newington has been governed by an Act of Parliament since 1922.\n\nNewington has two preparatory schools, Wyvern House, in Cambridge Street, Stanmore, and a school at Lindfield, on Sydney's Upper North Shore. Newington currently caters for approximately 2,000 students from Year K to Year 12. Edmund Webb House, a boarding facility, is in Cambridge Street, Stanmore. The Robert Glasson Memorial Boat Shed is on the Parramatta River at Abbotsford and contains a boarding facility for thirty boys.\n\nThe College is a member of the Association of Heads of Independent Schools of Australia (AHISA), the Junior School Heads Association of Australia (JSHAA), the Australian Boarding Schools' Association, and a founding member of the Athletic Association of the Great Public Schools of New South Wales (AAGPS).\n\nThe College prepares students for the International Baccalaureate Diploma Programme and the NSW Higher School Certificate.\n\nThe Rev. John Manton proposed that a collegiate institute, 'decidedly Wesleyan in character', be founded in Sydney and that the school 'be open to the sons of parents of all religious denominations'. On Thursday, 16 July 1863, the Wesleyan Collegiate Institute opened with 16 boys and a small number of theological students. As no suitable buildings were available in Sydney at the time, Newington House, the centrepiece John Blaxland's estate at Silverwater, was leased.\n\nNewington College, as the school soon became known, prospered during its time on the Parramatta River and in 1869 was the first Australian school to play rugby football (against the University of Sydney), and soon after was the first school in Australia to hold an athletics carnival. In 1869, the Newington College Cadet Corps was formally incorporated by the Governor of New South Wales, Somerset Lowry-Corry, 4th Earl Belmore. It is the oldest continuous corps in the Australian Army Cadets.\n\nExpanding student numbers meant that more extensive premises closer to the city were required. A bequest by John Jones of land at Stanmore saw the College move to the newly fashionable inner-city suburbs. A grand stone edifice was designed by Thomas Rowe and has been described by architectural historian Morton Herman as 'an almost perfect example of scholastic Gothic Revival architecture'. The Thomas Rowe-designed Founder's Building, including its interior and surrounding grounds, are listed on the heritage register of the former Marrickville Council. Earth-moving work began on the site in 1876 and by May 1878 the building had reached first floor height. A public ceremony was held and six commemorative stones were laid. Amongst the six given the honour of laying the stones were Sir George Wigram Allen , the philanthropist who was Speaker of the New South Wales Legislative Assembly. He had lent £12,000 for the new buildings at Stanmore and later endowed the Wigram Allen Scholarship for boys proceeding to matriculation. The formal opening of the new school building was by Sir George on 18 January 1881. By resolution of the College Council, the name Newington College was perpetuated on the new site. Seventy school and theological students migrated from Silverwater to Stanmore and Newington has remained there ever since.\n\nOther local government heritage listings across the Newington campuses include, at Stanmore, the former small stone church built in 1874 and the Victorian-style gate house; and at Abbotsford, the historical boat shed, built . A gymnasium was built in 1890, and a swimming pool was opened in 1894.\n\nNewington ceased its connection to theological training in 1914, when the Wesleyan Theological Institution moved to the newly founded Leigh College at Strathfield South. In 1921, a stone war memorial, designed by Old Newingtonian William Hardy Wilson, was opened in memory of those old boys who had paid the supreme sacrifice in World War I. A separate preparatory school was opened in 1921, after a bequest by Sir Samuel McCaughey. It became known as Wyvern House in 1938, when a new building was opened by Old Newingtonian Sir Percival Halse Rogers.\n\nIn 1925, a rowing facility was built at Abbotsford, and in 1957 another preparatory school was founded on the North Shore – first at Killara, and subsequently relocated to Lindfield. Since the World War II, the College buildings and facilities have expanded significantly.\n\nDuring the Headmastership of Tony Rae, the Senior Block (1972) and Resources Centre Library (1975) and Chapel were opened. A new Physical Education Centre was opened by Old Newingtonian Nick Farr-Jones AM, and a new boatshed at Abbotsford were two of the most important property additions. In 1998, while Michael Smee was Headmaster, Wyvern House moved to a separate campus in Cambridge Street, Stanmore. The former Wyvern House building was then renovated and renamed the Le Couteur Wing in memory of former Headmaster Philip Le Couteur. In 2007 Newington spent $3.51 million to buy the Concordia Club (the former German cultural club), on Stanmore Road. Le Couteur was re-renovated early in 2014 and visual arts classes now occupy the first floor with languages and learning enhancement classes held on level two.\n\nDuring 2006, the press reported on an industrial relations dispute at Newington in which then Headmaster David Scott planned to force staff to re-apply for their jobs in a restructure that would also reduce their holidays. Scott said that 'The action was taken after a comprehensive review of the school and had nothing to do with the federal government's Work Choices reforms' The Sydney Morning Herald reported that David Scott believed that the union was being mischievous 'at best', or using an 'outright and deliberate lie' in suggesting the restructure was linked to workplace legislation. Following a meeting between the Independent Education Union and Newington College, Scott agreed to not declare senior staff positions vacant and the school continued to negotiate collective arrangements covering salary and working conditions for staff.\n\nDavid Mulford was appointed Headmaster in 2009 and served in that role until retiring in 2018. In 2012, the Nesbit Wing, built prior to the college centenary in 1963 in honour of Robert H. Nesbitt, was refurbished and extended to encompass the Technology Centre. Between 2009 and 2012 Newington spent $78 million on capital works. $33.7 million was outlaid on infrastructure alone in 2012. In 2013 the College celebrated its Sesquicentenary with the opening of two new buildings honouring two former Headmasters – The Lawrence Pyke Science Centre and The Tony Rae Resources Centre Library. This development was awarded the Master Builders Association of New South Wales's Excellence in Construction Award and was funded by donations and parent fees. The facilities at the Stanmore campus cover over 1200 square metres and contain a library, a 250-seat lecture theatre, the new boarders' dining room, a cafeteria, and science labs. In November 2013, the PE Centre was renamed the Taylor Sports Centre in honour of Old Newingtonian cricket and rugby union international Johnny Taylor. The naming was performed by Old Newingtonian Olympic rower and coach Michael Morgan OAM.\n\nOn 18 July 2016, in commemoration of the sesquicentenary of Newington College's brother school Tupou College, the reigning monarch of the Kingdom of Tonga King Tupou VI and his wife Queen Consort Nanasipau'u visited the College to open the Tupou College Centre. The centre houses specialist teaching spaces and a new health centre.\n\nThe Duckmanton Drama Centre was named in honour of Sir Talbot Duckmanton CBE and opened on 31 July 2017. Sir Talbot served on the Newington College Council from 1964 until 1978 and was Chairman of the Council Executive Committee for five years.\n\nThe Newington College Council Act allows for the appointment of up to 24 members of the Council: nine clerical appointments; nine lay appointments; and six members nominated by the Old Newingtonians Union (ONU). In 2017 the following were members of the Council.\n\nFrom its founding in 1863 until 1900, Newington had a system of dual control with a President (who was an ordained minister) and a Headmaster. As an ordained minister, Charles Prescott assumed both roles on his appointment in 1900 and, on his retirement in 1931, the role of President was abolished.\n\n\nThe long service of masters at Newington College is recognised in a number of ways. In 1955 a marble commemorative plaque was set in the north-western wall of the Prescott Hall to commemorate the work of three very long serving staff members and their Head, with the inscription:\n\nThese masters are further recognised by the naming of the Buchanan Oval, Ben Jarvie Staff Common Room and Cortis Jones Lecture Theatre. Another long-serving master of the first half of the 20th Century was Colonel Albert Douglas Arthur (1889-1949). In 1951 the college library was housed in a new room and renamed the A.D. Arthur Memorial Library in his honour. The library moved into the Nesbitt Wing upon its completion and when it moved again into Prescott Hall an adjoining study room was named the A.D. Arthur Annex. Arthur's name has not been connected with the college library since the 1970s but his portrait in oils still hangs in the Ben Jarvie Common Room. In 2014, past masters Phil Davis OAM and Robert Buntine were honoured with rooms in the AJ Rae Resource and Library Centre being named after them. Davis is the college's third-longest serving master (1951–2000), after Cortis Jones and Jarvie, and Buntine was the Deputy Headmaster during the headship of Tony Rae.\n\nStaff members notable in the wider community include the following:\n\nSince 1898, the Senior Prefect has been the captain of the school. The first student to hold that position was Sandy Phillips. In 2012, the Senior Prefect was Michael Cameron, whose father, Bruce Cameron, was Senior Prefect in 1974 and grandfather, Doug Cameron, was Senior Prefect in 1946. Since 1961 there has been a Deputy Senior Prefect and from 1991 it has been the custom to appoint two Deputies. A Senior Boarder Prefect has been appointed since 1932 when Philip Le Couteur, as Headmaster, instituted a House System. The Houses, eight in total, are led by a House Captain and a House Vice-Captain, or two. Until 1988, a select number of students were appointed as Prefect. Since that time, it has been the practice in Term 4 to offer all Year 11 boys the position of House Prefect and at the end of Year 12 to confirm as School Prefect all those judged to have discharged their duties in an exemplary manner. In 1950 and 1951, under the Headship of Mervyn Austin, Probationer Prefects were appointed and from 1953 until 1967 they were known as Sub-Prefects. That title was again used from 1983 until the current system of leaders was started in 1988. In one year only, 1971 during the Acting Headship of Owen Dudley, Monitors were appointed.\n\nThe title of Dux of the College is awarded to the best academic student each year in the senior form. Since 1865 that has been the Upper Sixth, Sixth Form and now Year 12. The first Dux announced was Andrew Houison during the early years at Newington House. From 1881, the Dux received the \"Schofield Scholarship\" (after Schofield's donation of £1,000 to the College) and since 1924 the \"Halse Rogers Prize\" (which was endowed by William and Elizabeth Halse Rogers). In more recent years these have been awarded jointly as the Schofield and Halse Rogers Prizes. Winners names were from 1881 inscribed on boards in the Prescott Hall but since 1976 the board has been in the Centenary Hall. Duces of Newington have included: Cecil Purser shared with James Ramsay (1881); George Abbott (1882); Harry Wolstenholme (1885); Herbert Curlewis (1886); William Parker (1887); Frederick Pratt (1888); John Halliday (1889), when he was known as Charles Halliday; David Edwards (1890); Edwin Hall (1891); Ernest Warren (1892); Harold Curlewis (1893); Walter Woolnough (1894); George Harker (1895); Leslie Allen (1899); Percival Halse Rogers (1900); Lindsay Dey (1904); Carleton Allen shared with Rupert Hollaway (1905); Ronald Aston shared with Henry Darke (1916); William Morrow (1921); Walter Bryan Ward shared with Philip Harrison (1924); Keith Jones (1927); Talbot Duckmanton (1937); John Veevers (1947); John Turtle (1953); Bob Baxt (1955); John Pyke (1957); Warwick Cathro (1964); and Patrick Cook shared with David Emery and Philip Neal (1967). David Murray (1909) and Roxy Muir (1913) died during World War I. Harold Hunt was Dux in 1884 and his son, Harold Hunt, was Dux in 1920. The Thomas family have three generations of Duces of Newington: Noel Thomas (1930); Rod Thomas (1960); and Peter Thomas (1988).\n\nThe Old Boys' Prize is the most senior of the citizenship prizes awarded at Newington and is presented for scholarship, sportsmanship and moral qualities. Loyalty and leadership are equally weighed in this award. It was first awarded in 1904 and shared by Thomas Gale and Oliver Woodward. It has been awarded annually since then and recipients have included: Carleton Allen (1905); Bryan Ward (1924) shared with Jonathon Joyce; John Lawes (1925) shared with Richard Hay; Denis Cowper (1926) shared with Den Joyce; Bym Porter (1927) shared with Arthur Parton; George Wright (1935); Marshall Hatch (1950); Graham Colditz (1972); and Stephen Rae (1979). For four years in a row the prize was awarded to students who were to serve and die in World War I: David Murray (1910); Morven Nolan (1911); Clifford Holliday (1912); and Roxy Muir (1913). The Old Boys Prize was not awarded the following year (1914).\n\nNewington College is situated over three suburban campuses, located in Stanmore and Lindfield:\n\nThe secondary campus is located in Stanmore, in Sydney's inner-west. The student body consists of approximately 50 boarders and 1,700 day students from Years 7 to 12. Newington boarders come from country and city, interstate and overseas. Day students are drawn from all over the Sydney greater metropolitan area.\n\nNewington has educated primary school (Kindergarten to Year 6) aged boys since 1863. In 1938 Wyvern House opened in a separate school building on the Stanmore campus and accepted its first students in 1939. Wyvern moved to new premises in Cambridge Street, Stanmore, a few minutes' walk from the secondary school, in 1998. It has approximately 480 students – all day students. There are two classes in each of Years K to 2, three classes in Years 3 to 4 and four classes in Years 5 to 6. The Head of Wyvern House is Ian Holden.\n\nThe Newington College Preparatory School was established initially at Killara (1957) and later at Lindfield (1967), in response to requests from Old Newingtonians that a preparatory school be established on the North Shore of Sydney. The Head of Newington College, Lindfield, is Ben Barrington-Higgs. It is a single-stream school, with approximately 160 students from Kindergarten to Year 6 and is set in a bushland location where the Students are constantly in touch with nature. The school features a basketball/tennis court, climbing gym areas, swimming pool and connects to the bush trails of Swain Gardens. Each classroom includes effective information communication technology tools. Classrooms have dedicated computer and wet areas, and bag storage areas. There are special facilities for music, art and French. A tuckshop operates three days a week. The campus has just undergone a major redevelopment of classrooms and the addition of a new hall, library and visual arts room. Students in Years 3–6 compete in the Independent Primary School Heads of Australia (IPSHA) Competition held on Saturday mornings. Every student competes in a summer (basketball or cricket) or winter sport (rugby or soccer). Newington's preparatory schools combine for annual carnivals in swimming, athletics and cross country.\n\nThe grounds and buildings of Newington College contain numerous war memorials:\n\nWork began in October 1952 on the War Memorial Classroom Block and the Old Boy benefactor W. R. Glasson unveiled the foundation stone. In June 1953 the building was opened by Colonel Thomas Millner . The War Memorial Science Building was opened in July 1955 by Sir Iven Mackay when he unveiled a stone memorial wall with the following inscription:\n\nGunner Jack Johnson, an Old Newingtonian, died of wounds on a Belgian battlefield in 1917 and in his memory, his parents, Frank and Sarah Johnson, provided £1,100 for the college to level part of the existing playing fields. This provided a rugby union ground of full size, and was named the Johnson Oval. At the corners brick retaining walls, to a design by Arthur Anderson, protected the steep banks.\n\"Eight other memorials at Newington are recorded on the New South Wales Government's Register of War Memorials in New South Wales.\"\n\nThe sandstone Memorial to the Dead was designed by the Old Newingtonian architect William Hardy Wilson and is now sited between the Centenary Hall and the Chapel. It was originally placed in a grove of trees to the north of the Founders Wing but was moved to its present location in the early 1960s to make way for the construction of the Centenary Hall which was opened in 1963. The memorial comprises a semi-circular wall and seat, with pillars surmounted by white stone urns at either end and a column with a sundial stands at the centre. The inscription on the wall reads: 1914 – To Our Beloved Dead – 1918 and the inscription on the sundial reads: Time dims not their sacrifice. The memorial was dedicated on 11 May 1922 by the Governor General of Australia and the Old Newingtonian poet Leslie Holdsworth Allen wrote a poem, \"To our beloved dead\", in memory of the occasion.\n\nCommemorating Prisoners of War during World War I, this tree comes from a seedling propagated from a pine cone brought home from Gallipoli by an Australian soldier. The tree stands in a triangular area of grass formed by the merging of the Cowlishaw Drive and the War Memorial Drive. A bronze commemorative plaque on a stone plinth has the following inscription: \nThe Gallipoli Lone Pine – During the 1914–1918 Great War, Australian and New Zealand forces landed at Gallipoli on 25 April 1915 to attack Turkish forces. Eight months later they withdrew. One significant battle occurred on the ridge where a lone pine stood. ANZAC forces finally occupied the Turkish position, but with the tragic loss of 2,227 men. Turkish losses were around 5,000. During the withdrawal from ANZAC Cove, an Australian soldier picked up a pine cone and brought it home, where the seeds were propagated. Since 1933, when the pines became of good size and yielded more seedlings, Legacy arranged for pine trees to be distributed to schools and interested groups to help keep the memory of the Gallipoli Lone Pine alive.\n\nTwenty four brass plaques were hung in Prescott Hall as memorials to individual Old Newingtonians who died during World War I. Further plaques were added after World War II but they were all removed when the hall was renovated in 1979. They were then placed on the first floor balcony of the War Memorial Classroom Block. They were later placed in the archives collection. In 1995 they were restored and repositioned in the chapel's glass ambulatory overlooking the 1914–1918 Memorial to the Dead. Included amongst these plaques is one in memory of William Tasker (15 October 1891 – 9 August 1918) who was a World War I soldier who had been a national representative rugby union player making six Test appearances for the Wallabies.\n\nIn 1936 the War Memorial Drive was planted with 75 poplars, each with a cross at the foot and a plaque honouring individual Old Newingtonians who died during World War II. The trees were replaced by a new avenue of trees in 1966 and the plaques were replaced by a tablet on a plinth with the inscription: Lest We Forget – This plaque was dedicated on 24 September 1966, to mark the planting of trees alongside the War Memorial Drive by the Old Newingtonians' Union to restore those originally planted by the Union on 29 February 1936. By this act Old Newingtonians remember those Old Boys who gave their lives in the service of God, King and Country, and whose names are recorded on the War Memorial of the School. Fifty of the original plaques remain in the archives collection. In 1979 the War Memorial Drive was realigned and replanted and the 1966 plinth was moved to the Millner Gates end of the drive.\n\nA bronze tablet recording the names of 44 Old Newingtonians who served in the Boer War hangs in Prescott Hall in the Founders Wing. It is set in a Gothic frame of columns with a plinth and cornice. The inscription reads: Floreat Newingtonia – Erected by Old Boys of Newington College in honour of Newingtonians who fought for the Empire in South Africa 1899-1902. The Memorial was designed by Old Newingtonian architects Henry Budden and William Hardy Wilson and was dedicated on 15 December 1903.\n\nOver six hundred Old Newingtonians enlisted during World War I and the loss of life was appalling. By war's end, 109 Old Boys had died for \"God, King and Country\". Prior to 1920 the walls of the vestibule at the entrance to the Founders Wing had been hung with sporting teams photographs. In 1921 this space was transformed by the installation of white marble tablets, encased in Queensland maple, upon which were inscribed the names of Old Boys who had served. Those who had made the supreme sacrifice are listed on the central panels below the words: These Nobly Strining, Nobly Fell. With a black and white marble floor and stained glass door panels this space takes on the feel of a small chapel.\n\nA wall of brass and enamel panels in the Centenary Hall foyer records the names of the 814 Old Newingtonians who served in Australia's armed forces in World War II. The inscription reads: Honour Roll of Old Newingtonians World War II 1939-1945. This honour roll was dedicated on Anzac Day 2009 by Old Newingtonian Major General Sandy Pearson and replaces a roll in the same position that was unveiled by Sir William Morrow in 1966.\n\nThis wooden honour board records the names of 45 Old Newingtonians who served in Australia's armed forces in conflicts post-World War II and is on the southern wall of the Centenary Hall foyer. It is inscribed: In every generation good men must defend what they believe to be right and Newington remembers with pride her sons who served their sovereign and country in the cause of liberty in international conflicts from 1948 to 1973. It commemorates service in the Korean War, Malayan Emergency, Malaysian-Indonesian Confrontation and Vietnam War.\n\nThe following are presented in honour of Old Newingtoninans who made the supreme sacrifice:\n\n\nThe school teaches the core curriculum outlined by the NSW Board of Studies (BOS) between Kindergarten and Year 8. In addition to this curriculum, the students study one major language other than English. From Years 9 to 12, students adhere to the Board of Studies curriculum standards that all NSW schools follow.\n\nNewington became an International Baccalaureate (IB) World School in May 2007, and from 2008 has offered the IB Diploma to Year 11 students, as an alternative to the NSW Higher School Certificate (HSC).\n\nNewington students may participate in the following co-curricular activities:\n\nNewington has a very proud history of producing rowers, coxswains, and coaches who have gone on to represent NSW and Australia in rowing. The College rowing program has produced fourteen Olympic rowers, many of whom have won medals. In addition to that, Newington has produced several Australian representatives at senior, Under 23 and Junior levels. At 1996, 2000 and 2004 Olympics, there were four old boys in each of those Olympic Rowing teams – a remarkable achievement indeed! In 2012, Newington had representatives at all three levels of the Australian team including James Chapman (ON 2007) at the London Olympic Games (Silver Medallist), Scott Woodward (ON 2008) at the Under 23 World Championships and Jesse Coyle (ON 2012) at the Junior World Championships.\n\nThe school annual of Newington College is called \"The Newingtonian\" and dates to the early 1880s. Three hand-written news sheets with the title \"The Newingtonian\" we're circulated in 1883 but the first printed issue of the magazine was published in June 1884. The aim of its founding editors was ‘...to place on record the simple annals of boyhood’. A quotation from the Latin poet Horace — Memor Puertiæ, translated as ‘remembering boyhood’ — served as \"The Newingtonian's\" motto until 1951. This briefly reappeared on the 1971 issues. The magazine was initially published as a quarterly, with an index for every twelve issues. From 1919 until 1940 \"The Newingtonian\" appeared three times a year and then was published twice a year until 1972 when it first appeared as an annual. The size changed to its present format in 1971. From its early days the magazine was setting the agenda for change in the college and upon the arrival of James Egan Moulton as President an 1894 issue called for a school song. The first photograph appeared in 1896 of the Rugby Union1st XV and the magazine has been in full colour since the 1980s. As with other traditional school magazines, \"The Newingtonian\" has carried reports of major events, of academic and sporting achievement, of co-curricular activities and of many other aspects of the school's day-to-day life. Even before the founding of the Old Newingtonians’ Union in 1895, the magazine has profiled the achievements of alumni. During the South African and World Wars records of Old Newingtonians armed service were published. Between 1995 and 2000 a separate publication of the same format known as \"The Old Newingtonian\" was published by the college.\n\n\"Dear Newingtonia\"\n\nGlasson Pavilion and Old Chapel Drama Centre\n\nDixon Gates, Stanmore Road fence, Sevington tennis courts and Deputy Headmaster's residence.\n\nFounders, the tower and Prescott Hall\n\nAlumnus of Newington College are known as Old Newingtonians and may elect to join the school's alumni association, the Old Newingtonians' Union. The Union was founded in 1895, with the Newington College President, James Egan Moulton, as its inaugural President and Sir Thomas Bavin as Secretary. The aims of the ONU, as stated in its constitution, are to:\n\n\"strengthen the bonds between Old Newingtonians and between Old Newingtonians and the College; foster and develop active participation in, and support of, the affairs of the College and of the Union; support and promote the Newington Foundation and the Old Newingtonians' Union Centennial Trust; organise and carry out social functions in pursuance of the objects of the Union; promote the interests and welfare of the College in all its aspects; commemorate those Old Newingtonians who have given their lives in the service of their country; and provide club facilities for members of the Union either solely or in conjunction with other clubs, unions or associations of ex-students of other schools\".\nThe school's bi-annual publication \"Newington News\" is sent to all old boys whose current addresses are known to the Union. The Union previously published directories of Old Newingtonians at five yearly intervals but that publication has been superseded by an on-line directory.\n\nAffiliated organisations of the Union are: Wyvern Cricket Club, playing in the Sydney Suburban Competition; Lodge Wyvern, a Masonic Lodge; and The 70 Club, a luncheon club for senior Old boys. The Old Newingtonians' Union is a member of the GPS Old Boys Unions' Council.\n\nPresidents of the Union are now normally elected for three one-year terms and are supported by a council. The council is made up of a treasurer, a secretary and assistant, councillors, metropolitan vice-presidents, regional vice-presidents and past presidents. During the Centenary of Newington College Sir Keith Jones was President of the Union (1963 & 1964) and in the Centenary year of the Union His Honour Judge Fred Kirkham was President (1995 & 1996). The immediate past Chairman of Newington College Council, The Hon. Justice Angus Talbot, has also served as President (1997 & 1998). Other notable Presidents of the union include: The Hon. Samuel Moore MLA (1896, 1898, 1904 & 1916); Arthur Lucas (1897); Cecil Purser (1899); George Abbott (1901); The Hon. William Robson MLC (1902 & 1905); William Horner Fletcher (1903); Percy Colquhoun MLA (1918 & 1919); Henry Budden (1920); Lt Col Alfred Warden (1923 & 1924); Carl Glasgow MLA (1929 & 1930); Col Tom Millner (1937, 1938, 1945 & 1946); Garth Barraclough (1948 & 1949); The Hon. Richard Thompson MLC (1952 & 1954); Alex Rigby (1959 & 1960); and Roger Davidson (1972 & 1973).\n\nThe current President is Alex Baykitch (Class of 1982).\n\nFor notable Old Newingtonians see:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1839894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1839894", "title": "Sananmuunnos", "text": "Sananmuunnos\n\nSananmuunnos (\"Word transformation\"), sometimes kääntösana, is a sort of verbal play in the Finnish language, similar to spoonerisms in English. \n\nSpecial to Finnish is a narrow phoneme inventory and vowel harmony. As Finnish is a mora-divided language, it is morae that are exchanged, not syllables (often a mora is also a syllable in a Finnish word, but not always). Also, Finnish inflectional and derivational morphology is extensive, thus applying a suffix from another word often produces a valid word. This leads to large number of possible spoonerisms. Much of practical \"sananmuunnos\" wordplay revolves around obscene double entendre expressed by spoonerism.\n\nSeveral books have been written. Some have whole stories with multiple puns in one sentence, for example. Most have a \"vocabulary\" in the back, usually a hundred or more word pairs long.\n\nInitial morae of two adjacent words are exchanged, which is spoonerism by definition.\n\nThe \"extra length\" of a long vowel is a full mora, and thus stays in its original position, making the new vowel long.\n\nIf necessary, stilted diphthongs are converted into allowed diphthongs as per phonotactics. The first vowel is the determinant for choosing the diphthong. The process preserves opening and closing diphthongs, e.g. the opening 'ie' is reflected as an opening 'uo'. \n\nIf necessary, vowel harmony is applied. As per vowel harmony, the initial syllable controls the kind of vowel selected.\nThat is, transformation is A, U, O into Ä, Y, Ö, if the former do not begin the word. Notice that information may be lost in this step, making it irreversible.\n\nIt is possible (although not accepted by some \"orthodox\") to exchange only the initial consonants, if that is the only way to get a sensible result. E.g. palasokeri [p-ala/s-okeri] 'sugar lump' → salapokeri [s-ala/p-okeri] 'playing poker in secret' (*solapakeri would not mean anything).\n\nTypically presented, spoonerisms are a kind of double entendre. Appropriately, the very term \"sananmuunnos\" is one; it becomes \"munansaannos\", which can be understood as \"small yield of penis\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1839898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1839898", "title": "Violin Concerto No. 1 (Mozart)", "text": "Violin Concerto No. 1 (Mozart)\n\nWolfgang Amadeus Mozart's Violin Concerto No. 1 in B major, K. 207, once was supposed to have been composed in 1775 (when Mozart was 19), along with the other four wholly authentic violin concertos. However, analysis of handwriting and the manuscript paper on which the concerto was written suggest that the date of composition might have been 1773. It has the usual fast–slow–fast structure. \n\nMovements are:\n\n<score vorbis=1>\n\\relative c { \\set Score.tempoHideNote = ##t \\tempo 4 = 132\n</score>\n\nThe concerto is full of brilliant passage work with running sixteenth notes. It is characterized generally by high spirits. \n\nThe Rondo in B, K. 269, for violin and orchestra, also is connected to this concerto. It was intended to replace the finale movement, and was composed to fulfill the recommendation of Antonio Brunetti, a violinist in Salzburg at the time. \n\nNonetheless, typically the concerto is performed with the original finale and the K. 269 Rondo remains a separate concert-piece.\n\n"}
{"id": "1839902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1839902", "title": "Bellevue Hospital", "text": "Bellevue Hospital\n\nBellevue Hospital (officially NYC Health + Hospitals/Bellevue and formerly known as Bellevue Hospital Center) is a hospital in New York City and the oldest public hospital in the United States. One of the largest hospitals in the United States by number of beds, it is located at 462 First Avenue in the Kips Bay neighborhood of Manhattan, New York City. Bellevue is also home to FDNY EMS Station 08, formerly NYC EMS Station 13. \n\nThe facility offers comprehensive healthcare services, including outpatient, specialty, and skilled nursing care, as well as emergency and inpatient services. The hospital contains a 25-story patient care facility and has an attending physician staff of 1,200 and an in-house staff of about 5,500. Bellevue is a safety net hospital, providing healthcare for individuals regardless of their insurance status or ability to pay. It handles over half a million patient visits each year.\n\nIn 2014 Bellevue was ranked 40th overall best hospital in the New York metro area and 29th in New York City by \"U.S. News and World Report\". Though Bellevue is a full-service hospital, it was once popularly associated with its treatment of mentally ill patients who required psychiatric commitment. The name \"Bellevue\" became a pejorative slang term for a psychiatric hospital.\n\nBellevue traces its origins to the city's first permanent almshouse, a two-story brick building completed in 1736 on the city common, now City Hall Park.\n\nIn 1798, the city purchased Belle Vue farm, a property near the East River several miles north of the settled city, which had been used to quarantine the sick during a series of yellow fever outbreaks. When the grid system of streets was established in 1811, the survey had to take the hospital into account, and the placement of First Avenue on the grid is mainly because of the location of Bellevue. The hospital was formally named \"Bellevue Hospital\" in 1824.\n\nBy 1787 Columbia University's College of Physicians and Surgeons had assigned faculty and medical students to Bellevue. Columbia faculty and students would remain at Bellevue for the next 181 years, until the restructuring of the academic affiliations of Bellevue Hospital in 1968. New York University faculty began to conduct clinical instruction at the hospital in 1819. In 1849, an amphitheater for clinical teaching and surgery opened. In 1861, the Bellevue Hospital Medical College, the first medical college in New York with connections to a hospital, was founded. By 1873, the nation's first nursing school based on Florence Nightingale's principles opened at Bellevue, followed by the nation's first children's clinic in 1874 and the nation's first emergency pavilion in 1876; a pavilion for the insane, an approach considered revolutionary at the time, was erected within hospital grounds in 1879. For that reason, the name \"Bellevue\" is sometimes used as a metonym for psychiatric hospitals.\n\nBellevue initiated a residency training program in 1883 that is still the model for surgical training worldwide. The Carnegie Laboratory, the nation's first pathology and bacteriology laboratory, was founded there a year later, followed by the nation's first men's nursing school in 1888. By 1892, Bellevue established a dedicated unit for alcoholics.\n\nIn 1902, the administrative Bellevue and Allied Hospitals organization were formed by the city, under president John W. Brannan. B&AH also included Gouverneur Hospital, Harlem Hospital, and Fordham Hospital. B&AH opened doors to female and black physicians. In the midst of a tuberculosis epidemic a year later, the Bellevue Chest Service was founded.\n\nBellevue opened the nation's first ambulatory cardiac clinic in 1911, followed by the Western Hemisphere's first ward for metabolic disorders in 1917. New York City's Office of the Chief Medical Examiner began on the second floor in 1918. German spy and saboteur Fritz Joubert Duquesne escaped the hospital prison ward in 1919 after having feigned paralysis for nearly two years.\n\nPS 106, the first public school for the emotionally disturbed children located in a public hospital, opened at Bellevue in 1935. In 1939, David Margolis began work on nine Work Projects Administration murals in entrance rotunda titled \"Materials of Relaxation\", which were completed in 1941. Bellevue became the site of the world's first hospital catastrophe unit the same year; the world's first cardiopulmonary laboratory was established at Bellevue by Andre Cournand and Dickinson Richards a year later, and the nation's first heart failure clinic opened, staffed by Eugene Braunwald, in 1952. In 1960. New York City's Office of the Chief Medical Examiner moved out of the second floor and into its new building at 520 First Avenue, but still maintained close relations with Bellevue. In 1962, Bellevue established the first intensive care unit in a municipal hospital, and in 1964, Bellevue was designated as the stand-by hospital for treatment of visiting presidents, foreign dignitaries, injured members of the City's uniformed services, and United Nations diplomats. Bellevue joined the New York City Health and Hospitals Corporation as one of 11 acute care hospitals in 1970.\n\nIn 1981, Bellevue was certified as an official heart station for cardiac emergencies; a year later it was designated as a micro-surgical reimplantation center for the City of New York, by 1983 as a level one trauma center, and by 1988 as a head and spinal cord injury center. In 1990, it established an accredited residency training program in Emergency Medicine. The building that formerly served as the hospital's psychiatric facility started to be used as a homeless intake center and a men's homeless shelter in 1998. The publication of the \"Bellevue Literary Review\", the first literary magazine to arise from a medical center, commenced in 2001; Bellevue Literary Press was founded six years later as a sister organization of the Bellevue Literary Review.\n\nIn April 2010, plans to redevelop the former psychiatric hospital building as a hotel and conference center connected to NYU Langone Medical Center fell through. The aftermath of Hurricane Sandy in October 2012 required evacuation of all patients due to power failure and flooding in the basement generators. Bellevue was renamed NYC Health + Hospitals/Bellevue in November 2015 as a reflection of its parent organization's rebranding.\n\nMultiple firsts were performed at Bellevue in its early years. In 1799, it opened the first maternity ward in the United States. By 1808, the world's first ligation of the femoral artery for an aneurysm was performed there, followed by the first ligation of the innominate artery ten years later. \n\nBellevue physicians promoted the \"Bone Bill\" in 1854, which legalized dissection of cadavers for anatomical studies; two years later they started to also popularize the use of the hypodermic syringe. In 1862, the Austin Flint murmur was named for Austin Flint, prominent Bellevue Hospital cardiologist.\n\nBy 1867, Bellevue physicians were instrumental in developing New York City's sanitary code, the first in the world. One of the nation's first outpatient departments connected to a hospital (the \"Bureau of Medical and Surgical Relief for the Out of Door Poor\") was established at Bellevue that year. In 1868, Bellevue physician Stephen Smith became first commissioner of public health in New York City; he initiated a national campaign for health vaccinations. A year later, Bellevue established the second hospital-based, emergency ambulance service in the United States. \n\nIn 1889, Bellevue physicians were the first to report that tuberculosis is a preventable disease; five years later was the successful operation of the abdomen for a pistol shot wound. William Tillett discovered streptokinase, later used for the acute treatment of myocardial infarction, at Bellevue in 1933. Nina Starr Braunwald performed the first mitral valve replacement in 1960 at the hospital. In 1967, Bellevue physicians perform the first cadaver kidney transplant. In 1971, the first active immunization for hepatitis B was developed by Bellevue physicians. Bellevue played a key role in the development of the \"Triple Drug Cocktail\" or HAART, a breakthrough in the treatment of AIDS, in 1996. \n\nIn October 2014, Bellevue took in an Ebola patient, Craig Spencer, an individual who worked with Médecins Sans Frontières (Doctors Without Borders) in Guinea a month prior during the 2014 Ebola virus epidemic in West Africa.\n\nOne of the largest hospitals in the United States by number of beds, it handles nearly 460,000 non-ER outpatient clinic visits, nearly 106,000 emergency visits and some 30,000 inpatients each year. More than 80 percent of Bellevue's patients come from the city's medically underserved populations. Bellevue is a safety net hospital, in that it will provide healthcare for individuals regardless of their insurance status or ability to pay.\n\nThe hospital occupies a 25-story patient care facility with an ICU, digital radiology communication and an outpatient facility. The hospital has an attending physician staff of 1,200 and an in-house staff of about 5,500.\n\nBellevue features separate pediatric (0-25) and adult (25+) emergency departments.\n\nBellevue has entered popular consciousness through its status as a major hospital in the largest city in the United States. The hospital notably treated the author Norman Mailer, who was taken to Bellevue after he stabbed his wife; and Mark David Chapman, who shuttled between Bellevue and the jail complex on Rikers Island after he shot and killed musician John Lennon. The poet Allen Ginsberg, also a former patient, mentioned the hospital by name in his famous poem \"Howl\" (1955).\n\nBellevue has been the subject of books including \"Bellevue: Three Centuries of Medicine and Mayhem at America’s Most Storied Hospital\", by historian David Oshinsky, \"Twelve Patients: Life and Death at Bellevue Hospital\", by Dr. Eric Manheimer, a former Bellevue medical director, \"Singular Intimacies: Becoming a Doctor at Bellevue\", by Dr. Danielle Ofri, a long-time physician at Bellevue.\n\nThe NBC television series \"New Amsterdam\" (2018-) takes place at a fictionalized version of Bellevue, renamed \"New Amsterdam\" in the show. Based on Manheimer's book, the series has filmed scenes at Bellevue and other New York City public hospitals.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1839915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1839915", "title": "Gideon Hawley", "text": "Gideon Hawley\n\nGideon Hawley (1727–1807) was a missionary to the Iroquois Indians in Massachusetts and on the Susquehanna River in New York.\n\nHe was born in the Stratfield section of Stratford, now Bridgeport, Connecticut, in New England on November 5, 1727. The son of Gideon Hawley and Hannah Bennett who was the daughter of Lieutenant James Bennett. Hawley's mother died at his birth and his father died three years later. He was the grandson of Ephraim and Sarah (Welles) Hawley from Trumbull. He was the great grandson of Joseph Hawley (Captain), first of the Hawley name to come to America in 1629, and was twice great grandson of Thomas Welles Governor of the Colony of Connecticut. He married Lucy Fessenden, second daughter of Reverend Benjamin Fessenden (Harvard 1718) and Rebecca (Smith) Fessenden, of Sandwich. They had three sons and two daughters. Lucy died December 25, 1777 at 50. Gideon married again to Mrs. Elizabeth Burchard, widow of Captain David Burchard of Nantucket, on October 7, 1778.\n\nHawley graduated from Yale in 1749. He was licensed to preach in May 1750. In 1752, in Stockbridge, Massachusetts, he accepted a position with the \"Society for Propagating the Gospel among the Indians\", under the supervision of Jonathan Edwards who was a preacher to the whites and the Housatonic Indians in Stockbridge. Hawley taught Mohawk, Oneida, and Tuscarora Indians there, with Edwards occasionally visiting to give advice.\n\nIn 1753, Hawley accepted a position from the commissioners of Indian affairs to establish a mission among the Six Nations at the town of Oquaga on the Susquehanna, near what is now Windsor, New York, in the area where another Yale graduate, Rev. Elihu Spencer, had made an unsuccessful attempt at ministry in the late 1740s. Hawley left for the site in 1754. Besides acting as a missionary, Hawley also acted as an interpreter at this post.\n\nThe French and Indian War did not affect his mission until 1756, when he was forced to leave. He then went to Boston and joined the army as chaplain of Colonel Richard Gridley's regiment, and attempted after this campaign to return to the Iroquois mission, but the enterprise proved too hazardous. He spent the winter in West Springfield, Massachusetts and tried to rejoin his mission in the spring of 1757, but an outbreak of small pox there prevented him from returning. The commissioners of the Society for propagating the gospel appointed him pastor of the Indian tribes at Mashpee, Massachusetts, where he was installed in April 1758 and remained as a missionary until his death in 1807.\n\nTimothy Dwight IV in his \"Travels in New England and New York\", writes about his visit with Hawley on October 2, 1800 and his correspondence with him afterward. Dwight wrote that after dinner he went to Hawley's house to visit and had an interview, \"more interesting than words can describe\" with Hawley. Dwight had not seen Hawley since he was a young man of eighteen. Dwight writes; \"this gentleman was a most intimate friend of my parents. From his youth he had sustained as amiable and unexceptionable a character as can perhaps be found among uninspired men\". During this visit in 1800, Gideon's son James was on his death bed. Hawley wrote to Dwight on April 29, 1801 to tell him of the death of his son James, eight days after his visit. He wrote to Dwight again on September 21, 1802 and both letters are published in Dwight's work, published posthumously in London in 1823.\n<poem class=center>Gideon Hawley 1807\nIn memory of\nRev Gideon Hawley who was\nborn at Stratford, Connecticut, Nov 5 O S 1727\ngraduated at Yale College 1749\nordained in Boston July 31, 1754\na missionary to the Indians at\nOnohaguage or the Six Nations\ninstalled at Mashpee April 10, 1758\ndied Oct'r 3 1807 AEt 80\nThere the wicked cease from troubling\nand the weary are at rest</poem>\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1839919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1839919", "title": "Connotea", "text": "Connotea\n\nConnotea was a free online reference management service for scientists, researchers, and clinicians, created in December 2004 by Nature Publishing Group and discontinued in March 2013. It was one of a breed of social bookmarking tools, similar to CiteULike and del.icio.us, where users can save links to their favourite websites. ReadCube is a similar free service that offers storage, annotation and sharing tools specifically for scientific documents. \n\nConnotea was aimed primarily at scientists (though the user community included other academic disciplines), and while users could bookmark any webpage they chose, it incorporated special functionality for certain academic resources. Connotea recognised a number of scientific websites and automatically collected metadata for the article or page being bookmarked, including author and publication names. It was also possible to add non-recognised webpages by manually entering information. An alternative method of adding an article was to retrieve the Connotea form and add the Digital Object Identifier (DOI) for the article. Information about the material was retrieved automatically using CrossRef, the official DOI registration point. This function meant that it was possible to quickly retrieve the reference for a print article that had an electronic counterpart with a DOI. \n\nWhen saving an article to Connotea, users \"tagged\" the article with keywords of their choice which they could later use to find it again. By categorising articles with relevant keywords e.g. \"\"C. elegans\"\", the social aspect of Connotea was developed. The system recognised users who were bookmarking the same papers or using the same keywords, and alerted them to potentially-related material. Allowing completely free tagging means a folksonomy can gradually develop. By default, links posted to Connotea were publicly viewable, allowing network effects to build up rapidly, but it was also possible for users to keep selected links private, either indefinitely or until a specified date and time. Connotea also provided RSS feeds, allowing users to keep track of articles posted under interesting tags or by users with similar interests.\n\nConnotea had the capacity to export the references in RIS format to a citation manager program. This meant that it was possible to save references when working on a computer without such bibliographic software installed and import them into this software for citing at a later stage.\n\nIn September 2005, Connotea won the Association of Learned and Professional Society Publishers Award for Publishing Innovation, and in November 2005 was shortlisted for the International Information Industry awards in the Best Scientific, Technical and Medical (STM) Product category.\n\nConnotea discontinued service on March 12, 2013. An export tool remained live until April 16, 2013 so that registered users could export their bookmarks.\n\n"}
{"id": "1839920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1839920", "title": "Timeline of women's suffrage", "text": "Timeline of women's suffrage\n\nWomen's suffrage – the right of women to vote – has been achieved at various times in countries throughout the world. In many nations, women's suffrage was granted before universal suffrage, so women and men from certain classes or races were still unable to vote. Some countries granted suffrage to both sexes at the same time. This timeline lists years when women's suffrage was enacted. Some countries are listed more than once, as the right was extended to more women according to age, land ownership, etc. In many cases, the first voting took place in a subsequent year.\n\nSome women in the Isle of Man (geographically part of the British Isles but not part of the United Kingdom) gained the right to vote in 1881.\n\nNew Zealand was the first self-governing country in the world in which all white women had the right to vote in, but not to stand for, parliamentary elections in 1893.\n\nThe colony of South Australia allowed women of European descent to vote and stand for election in 1894 (although Australian Aboriginal women did not obtain universal suffrage until 1962). In Sweden, conditional women's suffrage was granted during the age of liberty between 1718 and 1772.\n\nThe Australian Commonwealth Franchise Act of 1902 enabled women to vote at federal elections and also permitted women to stand for election to the Australian Parliament, making the newly-federated country of Australia the first in the modern world to do so. In 1906, the autonomous Grand Duchy of Finland, which became the republic of Finland, was the second country in the world to implement both the right to vote and the right to run for office. Finland was also the first country in Europe to give women the right to vote. The world's first female members of parliament were elected in Finland the following year. In Europe, the last jurisdiction to grant women the right to vote was the Swiss canton of Appenzell Innerrhoden (AI), in 1991; AI is the smallest Swiss canton with 14,100 inhabitants in 1990. Women in Switzerland obtained the right to vote at federal level in 1971, and at local cantonal level between 1959 and 1972, except for Appenzell in 1989/1990, see Women's suffrage in Switzerland. In Saudi Arabia women were first allowed to vote in December 2015 in the municipal elections.\n\nFor other women's rights, see timeline of women's legal rights (other than voting).\n\n1689\n\n\n1718\n\n1734\n\n1755\n\n1756\n\n1776\n\n1838\n\n1840\n\n1848\n\n1853\n\n\n1856\n\n1861\n\n1862\n\n1863\n\n1864\n\n\n1869\n\n1870\n\n1881\n\n1884\n\n1888\n\n1889\n\n1893\n\n1894\n\n1895\n\n1896\n\n1898\n\n1899\n\n1901\n\n1902\n\n1903\n\n1905\n\n1906\n1908\n\n1910\n\n1911\n\n1912\n\n1913\n\n1914\n\n1915\n\n\n1916\n\n\n\n\n1920\n\n1921\n\n1922\n\n1923\n\n1924\n\n1925\n\n1926\n\n1927\n\n1928\n\n1929\n\n1930\n\n1931\n\n1932\n\n1934\n\n1935\n\n1937\n\n1938\n\n1939\n\n1940\n\n1941\n\n1942\n\n1944\n\n1945\n\n1946\n\n1947\n\n1948\n\n1949\n\n1950\n\n1951\n\n1952\n\n1953\n\n1954\n\n1955\n\n1956\n\n1957\n\n1958\n\n1959\n\n1960\n\n1961\n\n1962\n\n1963\n\n1964\n\n1965\n\n1966\n\n1967\n\n1968\n\n1970\n\n1971\n\n1972\n\n1973\n\n1974\n\n1975\n\n1976\n\n1977\n\n1978\n\n1980\n\n1984\n\n1985\n\n1986\n\n1989\n\n1990\n\n1991\n\n1996\n\n1999\n\n2001\n\n2003\n\n2005\n\n2006\n\n2015\n\nNote: in some countries both men and women have limited suffrage. For example, in Brunei, which is a sultanate, there are no national elections, and voting exists only on local issues. In the United Arab Emirates the rulers of the seven emirates each select a proportion of voters for the Federal National Council (FNC) that together account for about 12% of Emirati citizens.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1839921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1839921", "title": "Violin Concerto No. 2 (Mozart)", "text": "Violin Concerto No. 2 (Mozart)\n\nViolin Concerto No. 2 in D major K. 211 was composed by Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart in 1775. The concerto has the usual fast–slow–fast structure. The movements of the work have the tempo headings: \n\\relative c' {\n\\version \"2.18.2\"\n\\key d \\major\n\\time 4/4\n\\tempo \"Allegro moderato\"\n\\tempo 4 = 70\n\\tuplet 3/2 {d,16\\p (e d)} g8-! r8 r8 \\tuplet 3/2 {d16 (e d)} b'8-! r8\n</score>\n\n\\relative c' {\n\\version \"2.18.2\"\n\\key g \\major\n\\time 3/4\n\\tempo \"Andante\"\n\\tempo 4 = 60\nd'2\\f e8. (c16) \nd8. (b16) g'4 g\nb8\\p (fis g dis e g)\ncis,8 (d e c ais b)\na8.\\f (a'16) a4. (g8)\ng8. (fis16) fis4. (e8)\nd (cis\\p c a) b (e)\ng,2 (fis8) r8\n</score>\n\n\\relative c' {\n\\version \"2.18.2\"\n\\key d \\major\n\\time 3/4\n\\tempo \"Rondeau : Allegro\"\n\\tempo 4 = 150\nfis'4. (g8 gis a) b (a) g-. fis-. e-. d-.\ne4-! e4-! fis4-! fis8. (g16) e4-! r4\nd8 (e fis d cis a) d8 (e fis d cis a)\nd8 (fis a fis) b (g) fis2 (e4)\n</score>\n\nThe concerto lasts around 20 minutes.\n\n \n"}
{"id": "1839930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1839930", "title": "Communist Party of Bangladesh (Marxist–Leninist) (Umar)", "text": "Communist Party of Bangladesh (Marxist–Leninist) (Umar)\n\nThe Communist Party of Bangladesh (Marxist–Leninist) () is a Maoist political party in Bangladesh led by Badruddin Umar. Umar's BSD (ML) is an underground party and operates through its front Ganotantrik Biplobi Jote.\n"}
{"id": "1839938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1839938", "title": "Ganotantrik Biplobi Jote", "text": "Ganotantrik Biplobi Jote\n\nGanotantrik Biplobi Jote (Democratic Revolutionary Unity) is the mass front of BSD-ML. GBJ was founded in 1987.\n\nThe students' wing of GBJ is Bangladesh Students Federation.\n\nGBJ publishes \"Sanskriti\" (Cultural), \"Janojug\" (People's Era), and \"Trinamul\" (Grassroot).\n"}
{"id": "1839944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1839944", "title": "Complete Boolean algebra", "text": "Complete Boolean algebra\n\nIn mathematics, a complete Boolean algebra is a Boolean algebra in which every subset has a supremum (least upper bound). Complete Boolean algebras are used to construct Boolean-valued models of set theory in the theory of forcing. Every Boolean algebra \"A\" has an essentially unique completion, which is a complete Boolean algebra containing \"A\" such that every element is the supremum of some subset of \"A\". As a partially ordered set, this completion of \"A\" is the Dedekind–MacNeille completion.\n\nMore generally, if κ is a cardinal then a Boolean algebra is called κ-complete if every subset of cardinality less than κ has a supremum.\n\n\n\nif \"A\" is a subalgebra of a Boolean algebra \"B\", then any homomorphism from \"A\" to a complete Boolean algebra \"C\" can be extended to a morphism from \"B\" to \"C\".\n\n\nThe completion of a Boolean algebra can be defined in several equivalent ways:\n\nThe completion of a Boolean algebra \"A\" can be constructed in several ways:\n\nIf \"A\" is a metric space and \"B\" its completion then any isometry from \"A\" to a complete metric space \"C\" can be extended to a unique isometry from \"B\" to \"C\". The analogous statement for complete Boolean algebras is not true: a homomorphism from a Boolean algebra \"A\" to a complete Boolean algebra \"C\" cannot necessarily be extended to a (supremum preserving) homomorphism of complete Boolean algebras from the completion \"B\" of \"A\" to \"C\". (By Sikorski's extension theorem it can be extended to a homomorphism of Boolean algebras from \"B\" to \"C\", but this will not in general be a homomorphism of complete Boolean algebras; in other words, it need not preserve suprema.)\n\nUnless the Axiom of Choice is relaxed, free complete boolean algebras generated by a set do not exist (unless the set is finite). More precisely, for any cardinal κ, there is a complete Boolean algebra of cardinality 2 greater than κ that is generated as a complete Boolean algebra by a countable subset; for example the Boolean algebra of regular open sets in the product space κ, where κ has the discrete topology. A countable generating set consists of all sets \"a\" for \"m\", \"n\" integers, consisting of the elements \"x\"∈κ such that \"x\"(\"m\")<\"x\"(\"n\"). (This boolean algebra is called a collapsing algebra, because forcing with it collapses the cardinal κ onto ω.)\n\nIn particular the forgetful functor from complete Boolean algebras to sets has no left adjoint, even though it is continuous and the category of Boolean algebras is small-complete. This shows that the \"solution set condition\" in Freyd's adjoint functor theorem is necessary.\n\nGiven a set \"X\", one can form the free Boolean algebra \"A\" generated by this set and then take its completion \"B\". However \"B\" is not a \"free\" complete Boolean algebra generated by \"X\" (unless \"X\" is finite or AC is omitted), because a function from \"X\" to a free Boolean algebra \"C\" cannot in general be extended to a (supremum-preserving) morphism of Boolean algebras from \"B\" to \"C\".\n\nOn the other hand, for any fixed cardinal κ, there is a free (or universal) κ-complete Boolean algebra generated by any given set.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1839945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1839945", "title": "Woburn Sands railway station", "text": "Woburn Sands railway station\n\nWoburn Sands railway station serves the town of Woburn Sands and village of Wavendon in the borough of Milton Keynes in Buckinghamshire, England. The station is on the Marston Vale line between Bedford and Bletchley, about 4 miles (6.5 km) east of Bletchley station. The station is served by local trains to Bletchley and Bedford using Class 230/1 multiple units. This station is one of the six stations serving the Milton Keynes urban area.\n\nWoburn Sands has a black and white \"cottage\" station building, one of four of the same design that are unique to this line. Two of the others remain at and Milbrook. The building is in a half-timbered Gothic Revival style that had been insisted upon by the 7th Duke of Bedford for stations close to the Woburn Estate. It is Grade II listed. It opened with the line in 1846; between 1871 and July 1967 had a sizeable goods yard serving various local businesses (including a brick factory and gas works).\n\nIn August 2004, Woburn Sands lost its Victorian signal box to the development and modernisation of the route. Until 2004 the line was controlled by staffed signal boxes located at various stations; but the entire line is now controlled from one signalling centre at Ridgmont.\n\nAt present an hourly service operates each way, operated by either a Class 150, Class 153 or Class 230 DMU. There is no service on a Sunday.\n\nWoburn Sands station, in common with others on the Marston Vale line, is covered by the Marston Vale Community Rail Partnership, which aims to increase use of the line by involving local people.\n\nThe station is on Station Road, about from the town centre. The nearest post-code is MK17 8UD. In the chainage notation traditionally used on the railway, it is from Bletchley station on the line to Bedford.\n\n"}
{"id": "1839947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1839947", "title": "Artus", "text": "Artus\n\nArtus may refer to:\n\nArtus or Arthus is a Breton surname or name which means \"bear\" (cf. arth), and may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1839948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1839948", "title": "Pleasant Street Incline", "text": "Pleasant Street Incline\n\nThe Pleasant Street Incline or Pleasant Street portal was the southern access point for the Tremont Street subway in Boston, Massachusetts, which became part of the Green Line after the incline was closed. The portal and the section of tunnel connecting it to Boylston served Green Line streetcars from 1897 to 1901, Main Line Elevated (Orange Line) trains from 1901 to 1908, and streetcars again from 1908 to 1962. The Pleasant Street Incline is now abandoned, but plans have been floated at various times to reuse it.\n\nThe incline opened on 1 October 1897, one month after the first section of the Tremont Street subway, allowing streetcar lines from Roxbury, Dorchester, and points south to operate via the subway. The new tunnel stretched from the outer tracks at Boylston south under Tremont Street, with a four-track portal in the triangle bounded by Tremont Street, Pleasant Street (later part of Broadway), and Shawmut Avenue. The tunnel carried two tracks, splitting into four tracks at a flying junction near the portal, with the northbound (western) track going over the southbound (eastern) track. The two western tracks continued down Tremont Street, while the eastern tracks turned east on Pleasant Street via Broadway to City Point in South Boston.\n\nOn 10 June 1901, streetcar service through the portal stopped, as the Washington Street Elevated (later part of the Orange Line) was connected to the two outermost tracks. El trains came out of the portal, stopped at a new Pleasant Street station with a center island platform in an open cut, passed under Pleasant Street, and then rose onto an elevated structure. Many surface streetcar lines were truncated to Dudley, the south end of the new El, until late November 1909.\n\nAfter the Washington Street Tunnel opened on 30 November 1908, the elevated trains were rerouted through it, and the streetcars returned to the incline by their old routes, while the Pleasant Street station closed.\n\nOn March 2, 1953, the City Point line was replaced by the 9 bus route. The tracks to Tremont Street, formerly connected to the west tracks of the portal, were realigned to the east tracks, allowing a bus transfer station to be built where the west tracks had been. The Tremont Street line was bustituted as the 43 route on November 20, 1961, and a streetcar shuttle started between the portal and Boylston, with transfers to the subway. This shuttle was short-lived, ending with closure of the portal on April 6, 1962.\n\nThe Pleasant Street portal is now covered by Elliot Norton Park at the intersection of Tremont Street, Shawmut Avenue, and Oak Street West.\n\nReuse of part of the tunnel for the Silver Line Phase III was briefly considered, but the narrow bore was found too small for the Silver Line buses which (unlike trolleys) are not fixed to their guideway. Plans for the Phase III tunnel were shifted further west to new alignments, then canceled due to questions over the project's cost-effectiveness.\n\nThe 2003 Program for Mass Transportation included the possibility of converting the Washington Street section of the Silver Line to Dudley Square to light rail (as had originally been promised) using the abandoned southern section of the subway to connect to the Central Subway at Boylston. However, the Phase III tunnel and continued bus service was recommended instead. In 2012, the Roxbury-Dorchester-Mattapan Transit Needs Study recommended the conversion to light rail and reuse of the tunnel as a long-term project, with the additional possibility of extending the line down Blue Hill Avenue to Mattapan along the # route.\n\n"}
{"id": "1839950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1839950", "title": "Black Orchid (Doctor Who)", "text": "Black Orchid (Doctor Who)\n\nBlack Orchid is the fifth serial of the 19th season of the British science fiction television series \"Doctor Who\", which was first broadcast on BBC1 on 1 and 2 March 1982.\n\nThe serial is set in an English estate in 1925. In the serial, the alien time traveller the Fifth Doctor (Peter Davison) investigates the murder of two servants during a fancy dress party.\n\nThis story was the first purely historical adventure for the Doctor—featuring no science fiction elements save for the TARDIS and the regular cast—since \"The Highlanders\" (1966). Sarah Sutton plays two characters in this story.\n\nIn an English country house, two figures struggle before one of them falls dead. A young woman sleeps as a figure enters her room. The figure is then seen tied to the bed guarded by a South American Indian.\n\nIt is 11 June 1925, and as a train departs Cranleigh Halt railway station the TARDIS materialises. The crew encounters Lord Cranleigh's chauffeur, who has been expecting \"the Doctor\". Lord Cranleigh asks them to stay until the annual ball and offers them costumes. They are introduced to Ann Talbot, Lord Cranleigh's fiancée, who looks identical to Nyssa.\n\nWhen Tegan admires a black flower, Lady Cranleigh explains it is a Black Orchid and was found on the Orinoco by her son George. Tegan recognises the name as George Cranleigh, a famous botanist and explorer. Lady Cranleigh says that George never returned from his expedition into the Brazilian forests. Ann was engaged to George.\n\nThe bound figure struggles against his bonds. When the Indian inspects the figure, he is knocked unconscious.\n\nThe Fifth Doctor picks a Harlequin outfit to wear to the ball. Ann comes to their room, presenting Nyssa with a dress identical to her own; the ball attendees will be unable to tell them apart.\n\nAs the Doctor prepares for the ball, a figure enters his room from a secret passage. Hearing a noise, the Doctor returns to the room, but only sees the opening. He enters the secret passage, but the panel closes behind him. The figure takes the Harlequin costume.\n\nThe ball has started. Lady Cranleigh talks with the Indian. He tells her his \"friend\" has escaped. The figure wearing the Harlequin costume dances with Ann.\n\nThe Doctor enters a room full of botany textbooks, finding the secret room where the figure was bound, a book written in Portuguese, and a corpse. The Harlequin enters the building with Ann. Ann tells it they should return to the party, but it grabs her by the wrist. Ann screams for help and a butler rushes to her assistance. The Harlequin strangles him, causing Ann to faint.\n\nThe Doctor returns to the secret room, finding Lady Cranleigh and the Indian, whom she introduces as Latoni – a Brazilian friend. The Doctor shows them the corpse, which she identifies as one of the servants. She requests he not inform the guests. The figure returns the Harlequin costume to the Doctor's room then goes to a room where Ann is lying, and a hideously deformed face is revealed. Ann awakes and seeing the figure flees into the room where Lady Cranleigh and Latoni are. Latoni gathers rope, advancing on the deformed figure.\n\nThe servants inform Lord Cranleigh of events inside the house. He finds the dead butler and Ann's mask. The Doctor arrives wearing the Harlequin costume and Ann identifies him as her attacker. Ann implores Sir Robert to arrest the Doctor. The Doctor proclaims his innocence, suggesting that someone else has an identical costume. Ann states there was only one Harlequin. He looks to Lady Cranleigh to provide an alibi but she stays silent. Sir Robert questions the Doctor regarding his identity, and he says he is a Time Lord and that he travels in time and space. Looking to Lady Cranleigh he mentions the other body, but she denies seeing it.\n\nShowing Sir Robert the cupboard, the body has been replaced with a doll. Lord Cranleigh receives a telephone call from his friend \"Smutty\" Thomas who he thinks sent the Doctor to meet him, and he realises it is the wrong man. Lord Cranleigh informs Sir Robert that the Doctor is an impostor; the real doctor missed his train. The Doctor is arrested for murder, his companions accused of being accessories. They are driven to the police station. The Doctor asks the sergeant to divert to the railway station to show Sir Robert the TARDIS, but it is not on the platform. They find the TARDIS at the police station.\n\nLady Cranleigh tells Lord Cranleigh about the other body, that of Digby the servant, establishing his innocence. In the secret room, the bound figure slips his ropes and kills Latoni, after Latoni has hidden the room key. Unable to find the key, the figure starts stuffing newspapers under the door then sets them on fire.\n\nThe Doctor invites Sir Robert and the police sergeant into the TARDIS. Astounded by what he sees, Sir Robert offers the Doctor an apology, but is still concerned about the murder. Lord Cranleigh telephones the police station, informing them of the second body. The Doctor uses the TARDIS to return to Cranleigh Hall. The secret room is ablaze with the fire started by the deformed figure, who breaks out and goes to the main hall where Lord and Lady Cranleigh are talking. The figure grabs hold of Nyssa and drags her upstairs. The Doctor cannot follow because the fire has spread. Sir Robert demands to know what the deformed figure is, and Lady Cranleigh reveals it is George. She insists George would not harm Ann, but the Doctor points out he has the wrong girl.\n\nGeorge carries Nyssa onto the roof. The Doctor asks Lord Cranleigh to distract George while he finds a way to their position. Lady Cranleigh confesses to Sir Robert: George's injuries were caused by Indians, who removed his tongue because they held the Black Orchid sacred. Losing his mind, he was rescued by another tribe of Indians, of which Latoni was a member. She admits that George killed Digby. Lord Cranleigh climbs onto the roof to confront George, and the Doctor also reaches the roof. The Doctor implores him to release Nyssa, telling him to look down and see Ann. George releases Nyssa. Charles approaches his brother to thank him, but George recoils and falls off the roof to his death.\n\nBefore the Doctor departs Ann gives Tegan and Nyssa their costumes as presents and Lady Cranleigh presents the Doctor with a copy of George's book.\n\nThis serial was commissioned by producer John Nathan-Turner during a period when the series did not have a Script Editor. Nathan-Turner had originally considered directing this story himself, which would have made him the first producer to do so since Barry Letts during the early 1970s. However, due to time constraints, Nathan-Turner abandoned the idea and hired Ron Jones to direct.\n\nTo avoid giving away the plot surprise, Gareth Milne's character was listed as \"The Unknown\" for Part One and in \"Radio Times\", and as \"George Cranleigh\" for Part Two. Michael Cochrane, who plays Lord Cranleigh, also appears in the 1989 Seventh Doctor serial \"Ghost Light\". He also appeared in the audio plays \"No Man's Land\" and \"Brotherhood of the Daleks\". Ivor Salter had previously played the Morok Commander in \"The Space Museum\" and Odysseus in \"The Myth Makers\".\n\nThe story was repeated on BBC1 on 31 August and 1 September 1983, achieving viewing figures of 4.4 and 5.0 million viewers respectively.\n\nIn the DVD commentary, Peter Davison and Janet Fielding revealed that \"Black Orchid\" is not a particular favourite episode of theirs, because they disliked the lack of a science fiction element and thought the script was generally trite.\n\nPaul Cornell, Martin Day, and Keith Topping gave the serial a positive review in \"The Discontinuity Guide\" (1995), writing, \"A little piece of 20s whimsy sampled into \"Doctor Who\" with surprisingly satisfying results.\" In \"The Television Companion\" (1998), David J. Howe and Stephen James Walker said that the story had high production values and were disappointed it did not lead to more historicals. In 2012, Patrick Mulkern of \"Radio Times\" praised the story's variation on the \"Doctor Who\" formula and the cast, especially Sutton, who was given more to do. \"The A.V. Club\" reviewer Christopher Bahn noted that the story was not realistic and paced in a way that not much happened in the first episode, but felt that this decision allowed for leisurely moments between the TARDIS crew. Though he wrote that the low stakes were a refreshing change, he said that the story's problem was its reliance on Agatha Christie-like source material, which led to casual racism and discrimination. DVD Talk's Justin Felix gave \"Black Orchid\" three out of five stars, describing it as \"a breezy excursion into a melodramatic murder mystery\".\n\nA novelisation of this serial, written by Terence Dudley, was published by Target Books in September 1986. An unabridged reading of the novelisation by actor Michael Cochrane was released on CD in June 2008 by BBC Audiobooks.\n\n\"Black Orchid\" was released in a twin VHS set with \"The Visitation\" in July 1994. \n\nOn 14 April 2008 it was released on DVD.\n\nOn 10 December 2018 it was released as part of the Doctor Who: The Collection - Season 19 boxset.\n\nA book length study of the serial, written by Ian Millsted, was published as part of The Black Archive series from Obverse Books in 2016.\n\nThe serial was covered in volume 35 of the book series, which reprinted Andrew Pixley's 'Archive' features from \"Doctor Who Magazine\" and the various \"Doctor Who Magazine Special Editions\", as well as new articles created specifically for the book.\n\n"}
{"id": "1839958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1839958", "title": "Jack Marks (performer)", "text": "Jack Marks (performer)\n\nJack Marks (12 February 1895 – 12 March 1987) was an English performer and screenwriter. He was born in Leeds, West Yorkshire, and began his career as a comedian, dancer and singer. He appeared before King George V and Queen Mary at the inaugural Royal Command Performance in London in 1912. He later became a successful screenwriter for several British films, such as \"Up for the Cup\" (1950). \n\nMarks married Iris Dilley and they had a son, Howard.\n\nHe died from lung cancer in St John's Wood.\n\n"}
{"id": "1839960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1839960", "title": "Albert Mosse", "text": "Albert Mosse\n\nIsaac Albert Mosse (1 October 1846 – 31 May 1925) was a German judge and legal scholar. Mosse's importance lies in his work on Japan's Meiji Constitution and his continuation of Litthauer's Comments on the German Commercial Code.\n\nMosse was born into a prominent Jewish family in Grätz, in Prussia's Grand Duchy of Posen. His father, Dr. Markus Mosse, was a noted physician, and the most distinguished of his six brothers was Rudolf Mosse.\n\nMosse attended the \"gymnasiums\" in Lissa and in Goben. He then studied law at Berlin University in 1865 thanks to the financial support of his older brothers, and passed his first state examination in 1868, and the second one in 1873. He was a volunteer in the Franco-Prussian War of 1870–1871.\n\nHe became an assistant judge in 1875, and was gradually elevated to the position of a county court judge at Spandau in 1876. Eventually, he was appointed judge of the state court in Berlin, which was the highest position a Jew was allowed to achieve in Germany at the time.\n\nIn 1882, at the request of the German government, Mosse met with future Prime Minister of Japan, Itō Hirobumi and his group of government officials and scholars, who were touring Europe to research various forms of western style governments, and gave a series of lectures on constitutional law. Mosse is credited with having convinced Ito Hirobumi that the Prussian-style monarchical constitution was the best suited for Japan.\n\nIn 1886, Mosse was invited to Japan on a three-year contract as a foreign advisor to the Japanese government to assist Ito Hirobumi and Inoue Kowashi in drafting the Constitution of the Empire of Japan. Afterwards, he worked on other important legal drafts, international agreements, and contracts and served as a cabinet advisor in the Home Ministry, assisting Prime Minister Yamagata Aritomo in establishing the draft laws and systems for local government. He lived in Japan from 1886 to 1890.\n\nAfter leaving Japan, Mosse settled in Königsberg to be a state supreme court judge. He was awarded an honorary doctorate from the University of Königsberg in 1903 and, during the following year, became honorary professor there for Civil procedural law and Commercial law. After his retirement in 1907, he returned to Berlin where he served on the City Council and advised the Berlin municipal administration on various legal matters. He took part in public affairs of the Jewish community.\n\nNew edition of F. Litthauer's Comments on the Commercial Code 1905–1927.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1839961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1839961", "title": "Leviathan (album)", "text": "Leviathan (album)\n\nLeviathan is the second album by American heavy metal band Mastodon, released in 2004 on Relapse Records. It is Mastodon's first concept album, loosely based on the 1851 novel \"Moby-Dick\" by Herman Melville. The songs \"Iron Tusk\", \"Blood and Thunder\", \"I Am Ahab\" and \"Seabeast\" were released as singles. Three magazines awarded the album \"Album of the Year\" in 2004: \"Revolver\", \"Kerrang!\" and \"Terrorizer\". In 2009 and 2015 MetalSucks named \"Leviathan\" the best metal album of the 21st century.\n\n\"Leviathan\" was also released with an audio DVD of DVD-Video format in a limited edition set with a black and gold slipcase. The album brought Mastodon widespread critical acclaim and together with the ensuing tour greatly extended their fan base. It sold 106,000 copies by September, 2006. Guitarist Bill Kelliher considers this album a representation of the water element, in keeping with the elemental tetralogy of the band's first four albums.\n\nThe \"Tour Edition\" CD-ROM was released in 2005 which in addition to the main album contained the videos for \"Iron Tusk\" and \"Blood and Thunder\". The Tour Edition is presented in a slipcase which shows the complete cover artwork, rather than the detail of the whale shown on the standard edition. This is also the cover for the vinyl edition. A video for \"Seabeast\" was completed in 2006.\n\nCover art and booklet artwork was done by Paul Romano. The white tower seen in the artwork on the inside cover of the booklet is a revamped version of Martin Heemskerck's 16th-century interpretation of the Pharos of Alexandria. The wave seen in the full picture of the artwork is a reflection of Hokusai's \"The Great Wave off Kanagawa\".\n\nThe vinyl edition of \"Leviathan\" has a slightly different track listing. The songs \"I Am Ahab\" and \"Ísland\" are taken out of their respective place and replaced as tracks 7 and 8.\n\nPlacing Mastodon \"among the elite of bands\" on the strength of \"Leviathan\", Avi Pitchon wrote in \"Terrorizer\" that the album \"rampages through in a shining epic flow, the 'crazy' parts never separate from the classic metal parts\". Online music magazine Pitchfork Media placed \"Leviathan\" at number 126 on their list of top 200 albums of the 2000s. In 2009, MetalSucks compiled a list of the \"21 Best Metal Albums of the 21st Century So Far\" based on the opinions of various musicians, managers, publicists, label representatives and writers, where \"Leviathan\" was placed at number one on the list. The album was honored with a 2004 Metal Storm Award for Best Alternative Metal Album. In 2017, \"Rolling Stone\" ranked \"Leviathan\" as 46th on their list of 'The 100 Greatest Metal Albums of All Time.' German magazine \"Rock Hard\" ranked Leviathan ninth on the list of the 15 most important progressive metal albums.\n\n\"Blood and Thunder\" was featured on the \"Alone In The Dark\" and in \"The Cave\" film soundtracks, \"\", \"Saints Row\", \"Rocksmith 2014\", \"Project Gotham Racing 3\", \"Splatterhouse\" and \"Guitar Hero Metallica\" in addition to the film \"The Big Short\". The song was available as downloadable content for \"Rock Band\" and features an optional Pro Guitar upgrade for \"Rock Band 3\". \"Megalodon\" was featured as downloadable content for \"Rock Band\" and was released through the \"Rock Band Network\".\n\n\"Iron Tusk\" was featured in the soundtrack for \"Tony Hawk's American Wasteland\" and \"NHL 2K9\".\n\nThe song \"Island\" was featured in a brief scene in \"Monsters University\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1839962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1839962", "title": "Violin Concerto No. 3 (Mozart)", "text": "Violin Concerto No. 3 (Mozart)\n\nThe Violin Concerto No. 3 in G major, K. 216, was composed by Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart in Salzburg in 1775 when he was 19 years old. Mozart called it in a letter to his father the 'Straßburger-Concert', and researchers believe this epithet comes from the opening orchestral motive in the third movement, a local, minuet-like dance that had already appeared as a tune in a symphony by Carl Ditters von Dittersdorf.\"\"\n\nThe work is scored for solo violin, two flutes (second movement only), two oboes (tacet in the second movement), two horns in G and D, and strings.\n\nThe piece is in three movements:\n<score vorbis>\n\\relative c { \\set Staff.midiInstrument = #\"violin\" \n</score>\n\nThe Allegro is in sonata form, opening with a G major theme played by the orchestra. The main theme is a \nbright and happy discussion between the solo violin and the accompaniment, followed by a modulation to the dominant D major, then to its parallel key D minor. It experiments in other keys but does not settle and eventually heads back to the tonic, G major, in the recapitulation.\n\n<score vorbis>\n\\relative c' { \\set Staff.midiInstrument = #\"violin\" \n\\key d \\major\n\\tempo 4 = 50\n</score>\nThe second movement is in ternary form in the dominant key of D major. The orchestra begins with the main theme, which the violin imitates one octave higher. The winds then play a dance-like motif in A major, which the violin concludes. The violin restates the main theme in A major, although the melody features A sharp instead of A natural, creating a brief modulation to B minor. It soon modulates back to A major, then to the home key of D major through the main theme. After the cadenza, the violin plays the main theme again, thus concluding the movement in D.\n\nThis is the only movement in five violin concertos by Mozart where instead of oboes a pair of flutes are used.\n\n<score vorbis>\n\\relative c' { \\set Staff.midiInstrument = #\"violin\"\n\\key g \\major\n\\time 3/8\n\\tempo 4 = 130\n</score>\nThe finale is a rondo in G major and in time. Mozart inserts into the rondo a short G minor \"Andante\" section followed by a longer G major \"Allegretto\" section, both in cut time.\n\n"}
{"id": "1839970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1839970", "title": "Boon Lay", "text": "Boon Lay\n\nBoon Lay (, ), is a neighbourhood located in the town of Jurong West in the West Region of Singapore. Its borders very roughly correspond to the URA subzone of Boon Lay Place, situated within the Jurong West Planning Area. \n\nThe subzone was named after Chew Boon Lay (周文礼), a prominent businessman in the late 19th century and early 20th century who owned the land where the precinct stands. When a requisition of 1.012 km² of land from his estate was done by the war department of the then colonial government of Singapore, it led to the growth of Boon Lay Village in the 1940s, with a population of about 420 in the early 1960s. Boon Lay Place had earthworks begun in 1969 and had their HDB flats built since 1974.\n\nThe subzone is a division of West Coast GRC, under the management of West Coast Town Council. The people living there are represented by member of parliament Patrick Tay.\n\nThe only private estate in the precinct is Summerdale, while the rest consists of estates built by the government.\n\n\nThe main roads in the precinct are Jalan Boon Lay, Boon Lay Way, Corporation Road and Jurong West Avenue 2, which bounds the precinct and connects it to the rest of the island through linking with the PIE (exits 34 and 36), with minor roads (Boon Lay Avenue, Boon Lay Drive and Boon Lay Place) winding through the various estates in the precinct.\n\nThe precinct is situated between Boon Lay and Lakeside stations. Connection to both stations is available through feeder bus services 240 and 246 and trunk bus services 30, 154, 157 and 180, depending on direction of travel.\n\n\nThere are 2 night bus services that run through the precinct during the non-operational hours of the other bus and MRT services, with NR5 operated by SMRT and 5N operated by SBS Transit.\n\nIn addition to local buses, Malaysian Inter-State Express Buses start off from the former Savoy cinema to specific destinations in Malaysia as an alternative to the bus terminals located downtown such as those at Kallang Bahru Bus Terminal and Golden Mile Shopping Centre. Tickets can be bought from ticket agents at Boon Lay Shopping Centre.\n\nThere is 1 primary school (Boon Lay Garden), 1 secondary school (Boon Lay Secondary School), 1 high school (River Valley) and many childcare centres in the precinct.\n\nThe town centre is located at Boon Lay Place and is where the residents of Boon Lay bond with each other while meeting their daily needs. It is accessible from all parts of the precinct through feeder bus service 240 and 246 and trunk bus service 99.\n\nThere are 2 churches (The Church of Saint Francis of Assisi and Jurong Church of Christ) and 1 Chinese temple known as Tuas Pek Kong Keng Temple (大士伯公宫) in the precinct and all of them are found in the town centre.\n\nThere is a Boon Lay Hawker at the town centre where local food can be found.\n\nThe precinct's community centre (Boon Lay Community Centre) is located at the junction of Boon Lay Place and Boon Lay Avenue, as part of the town centre. It was upgraded from 2010 to 2011.\n\nManaged by HDB, this is the shopping centre that caters mainly to the residents of Boon Lay Place. An anchor tenant in this shopping centre is NTUC Fairprice. The shopping centre has been upgraded with new facilities likes elevators and escalators since late 2012.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1839972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1839972", "title": "Home, Pennsylvania", "text": "Home, Pennsylvania\n\nHome is an unincorporated village located in Rayne Township, Indiana County, Pennsylvania. Home has the ZIP code 15747 and is a part of the telephone area code 724.\n\nThe community received its name because its first post office was located in the \"home\" of postmaster Hugh Cannon in 1834.\n\nThe author Edward Abbey moved to Home in 1931, having been born in the Indiana hospital and spending the first four-and-a-half years in other towns and villages in the area. Abbey, known for his great depictions of nature and its beauty, was said to have gotten much of his inspiration from growing up in Home.\n\nThe town was called Kellysburg until the early 1900s. Harry Burkett and his family moved to town in 1918. Harry Burkett started the post office in his home, which led to the town's name: everyone talked about going to the home post office, and eventually the town's name was changed from Kellysburg to Home.\n\nThe town became famous as the setting for an episode of the television show \"The X-Files\" entitled \"Home\" which originally aired on October 11, 1996. In the episode, Home is depicted as an idyllic \"Mayberry\" like town clouded by a reclusive local family with a dark secret. Although the episode was set in the town, it was actually filmed near the Canadian towns of Fort Langley and Surrey, British Columbia.\n"}
{"id": "1839978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1839978", "title": "Stephen Epstein", "text": "Stephen Epstein\n\nStephen E. Epstein, MD, is the Head of Translational and Vascular Biology Research at the MedStar Heart and Vascular Institute, MedStar Washington Hospital Center and Clinical Professor of Medicine at the Georgetown University School of Medicine.\n\nAfter graduating Summa Cum Laude from Columbia College and elected to Phi Beta Kappa, Dr. Epstein took his medical training at Cornell University Medical College. He was elected to AOA, the medical honor society. Dr. Epstein interned at the New York Hospital, New York, NY.\n\nDr. Epstein served for over 30 years as Chief of the Cardiology Branch of the NHLBI at the National Institutes of Health in Bethesda, MD. He then served as Executive Director of the Cardiovascular Research Institute and Director of Vascular Biology Research, at the MedStar Health Research Institute, Washington Hospital Center. He currently serves as Head of Translational Research at the MedStar Heart and Vascular Institute, MedStar Washington Hospital Center.\n\nWith more than 500 publications in peer‐reviewed medical journals, Dr. Epstein is a recognized international authority on angiogenesis and on the application of stem cell strategies for cardiovascular therapeutics. His recent work on stem cell therapy has demonstrated that mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) when administered intravenously to mice with acute myocardial infarction and to mice with ischemic cardiomyopathy, markedly attenuate the progressive development of adverse left ventricular remodeling and deterioration in LV function. He and his associates have also demonstrated that one of the mechanisms responsible for these beneficial effects is a modulation of the excessive immune and inflammatory responses that are triggered by the presence of an injured left ventricle. These observations resulted in the initiation of two clinical trials testing the efficacy of the intravenous injection of MSCs in patients with heart failure. The observations are now being used to inform the development of novel monoclonal antibody strategies to modulate inflammation for treating patients with myocardial infractions, patients with heart failure, and patients with various autoimmune diseases.\n\nDr. Epstein and his colleagues have developed a biomarker strategy that identifies patients with coronary artery disease who are at very high near-term risk of experiencing death or an acute myocardial infarction.\n\nDr. Epstein served on two National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute (NHLBI) committees: Vice‐Chairman of the Data Safety Management Board (DSMB) for Programs of Excellence in Gene and Cell Therapy for the Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute, and Chairman of the DSMB for Specialized Centers for Clinically Oriented Research in Cardiac Dysfunction and Disease.\n\nDr. Epstein is also a Fellow of the American Heart Association, a member of the Association of American Physicians, and an Honorary Fellow of the American College of Chest Physicians. He is the recipient of the Distinguished WELCOME Lecturer award, was selected for the prestigious Pfizer Visiting Professor Program, and is a frequent invited lecturer and keynote speaker at national and international medical conferences.\n"}
{"id": "1839981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1839981", "title": "Filmfare Award for Best Male Debut", "text": "Filmfare Award for Best Male Debut\n\nThe Filmfare Award for Best Male Debut is given by Filmfare as part of its annual Filmfare Awards for Hindi films to recognise a performance by a male actor in a debut role.\n\nShah Rukh Khan, Hrithik Roshan, Aamir Khan, Ranbir Kapoor, Farhan Akhtar, Shahid Kapoor and Ranveer Singh have all won the Filmfare Award for Best Actor. Shah Rukh Khan has won the award eight times while Hrithik Roshan has won four times. Both Aamir Khan and Ranbir Kapoor have won three times each.\n\nAamir Khan, Ajay Devgn, Hrithik Roshan, Shahid Kapoor, Ranbir Kapoor, Ranveer Singh and Ayushmann Khurrana have all won the Filmfare Critics Award for Best Actor. Shah Rukh Khan and Ranbir Kapoor have both won twice. \n\nSaif Ali Khan, Akshaye Khanna, Vivek Oberoi and Farhan Akhtar have all won the Filmfare Award for Best Supporting Actor.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1839982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1839982", "title": "Nagashima", "text": "Nagashima\n\nThe fortress was situated on a swampy delta, on the border of Owari and Ise Provinces, at the point where three rivers converge, to the southwest of the modern-day city of Nagoya. Nagashima was in fact a number of smaller fortifications surrounding two primary buildings and not a single fortress. Nagashima Castle was built in 1555 by Ito Shigeharu, and seized by the Ikkō-ikki shortly afterwards, in much the same way they had seized a number of other daimyō's holdings. The Ganshō-ji fortified monastery formed the second center of Nagashima's defense.\n\nAt one time, the area may have been known as \"Nanashima\" or \"seven islands\". It is currently one island between the Kiso and Nagara Rivers, with Ise Bay at its southern tip.\n\nThe Oda clan, which controlled nearby lands, was wary of the Ikki's growing power, and engaged them at Ogie Castle in 1569. The Ikki were victorious, and Nobunaga's brother Nobuoki was killed. Nobunaga returned to lay siege to the Ikki's fortress three times, before finally subduing it in 1574 with the help of the Kumano Suigun (Navy) under the control of the Kuki family. He set the wooden structure ablaze, and none of the fortress cathedral's 20,000 inhabitants escaped.\n\nAccording to the members of the Nagashima Historical Society, none of the main castle of Nagashima survived and its true location is unknown. What is believed to be the most probable location is now the site of a junior high school, which was identified in accordance to written descriptions of the area in the 16th century and what is believed to be an old moat. There is a map at the site, next to the school. The reconstructed castle gate was washed away during the Isewan Typhoon in 1959. Ganshōji was rebuilt some distance inland. A stone stupa was erected as a memorial to those killed in the burning of the fortress.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1839986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1839986", "title": "Cindy Morgan", "text": "Cindy Morgan\n\nCindy Morgan (born Cynthia Ann Cichorski; September 29, 1954) is an American actress known for her appearances as Lora/Yori in \"Tron\" and Lacey Underall in \"Caddyshack\".\n\nMorgan was born in Chicago, Illinois, to Polish and German parents. Morgan attended 12 years of Catholic school, then studied communications at Northern Illinois University, where she played records on the campus radio station. A commercial station in town wanted her to report the news for them, which she did, adopting the last name Morgan, from a story she had read about Morgan le Fay when she was 12 years old.\n\nAfter graduation, Morgan worked at a television station in Rockford, Illinois, where she reported on meteorological events. She also kept her hand in radio by working the graveyard shift at a local rock station. She returned to Chicago and deejayed on WSDM, until quitting on air, during a labor dispute at the station, walking out with a record still spinning on the turntable.\n\nMorgan then worked for Fiat Automobiles. She moved to Los Angeles in 1978, and became the Irish Spring girl in various advertisements, while attending acting schools and workshops.\n\nMorgan landed her first screen role in the 1980 comedy \"Caddyshack\", playing the role of sexy bombshell Lacey Underall. In a 2012 interview, Morgan said of the lusty role:\n\n\"\"Caddyshack\" was my first film and I'll say that the end product was so completely different, it was originally about the caddies. So at first, I had nothing to lose to audition. It was fun. All I did was focus on making the person sweat. Look 'em in the eye, do that thing many women know how to ...\"\n\nMorgan appeared in the 1982 hit \"Tron\", the first computer-generated film. She played two characters: Lora, a computer programmer in the \"real\" world, and Yori, her alter-ego in the film's computer-generated flights of imagination.\n\nMorgan has many television and film credits, including portraying two different roles on the primetime soap opera \"Falcon Crest\", Lori Chapman in season one and Gabrielle Short in seasons six and seven. Morgan also played two different characters, in two different episodes, on the television series \"Matlock\". Her other credits include guest and minor appearances on \"The Larry Sanders Show\", \"Amazing Stories\", \"CHiPs\", and \"Bring 'Em Back Alive\".\n\nMorgan also associate-produced five films with Larry Estes.\n\nAccording to the documentary \"Caddyshack: The Inside Story\", Morgan is currently a resident of Florida and is in her 41st year of working on a book about her experiences during the making of \"Caddyshack\".\nMorgan did not participate in the making of \"\", the 2010 sequel to the 1982 film, nor does she appear in any of the retrospective materials produced in conjunction with the sequel for use in a DVD/Blu-ray reissue of the film in 2011. She did reunite with her costar Bruce Boxleitner in character as Lora, in a mock news conference on April 2, 2010, promoting the release of \"Tron Legacy\".\n\nMorgan, whose father fought in World War II, is passionate about supporting the United States military and helping to alleviate the financial hardship felt by those who have been called to serve in the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq. She was director of the Caddyshack Reunion Golf Tournament in 2006, which reunited some of the cast of \"Caddyshack\" (Morgan included), along with other celebrities. Subtitled \"Playing for the Home Team\" and hosted at Willow Crest Golf Club in Oak Brook, Illinois, the tournament raised funds (and awareness) to benefit the Illinois Military Family Relief Fund, an organization that helps the families of National Guard members and reservists on active duty.\n\nMorgan spent years in television and radio before becoming an actress. She presented the weather report at 6:00 p.m. and 10:00 p.m. in Rockford, Illinois, and weekends in Milwaukee. She was the morning drive DJ at the Chicago radio station WSDM, later \"The Loop\". She ran camera and was an FCC-licensed radio-station engineer. In 2006, Morgan provided the voice of Emily S. Preston in the \"Night Traveler\" multimedia adventure series produced by Lunar Moth Entertainment. She also voiced Ma3a in Buena Vista Interactive's PC game \"Tron 2.0\" in 2003.\n\n"}
{"id": "1839990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1839990", "title": "Crypton (particle)", "text": "Crypton (particle)\n\nIn particle physics, the crypton is a hypothetical superheavy particle, thought to exist in a hidden sector of string theory. It has been proposed as a candidate particle to explain the dark matter content of the universe. Cryptons arising in the hidden sector of a superstring-derived flipped SU(5) GUT model have been shown to be metastable with a lifetime exceeding the age of the universe. Their slow decays may provide a source for the ultra-high-energy cosmic rays (UHECR).\n\n"}
{"id": "1839994", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1839994", "title": "Our Final Hour", "text": "Our Final Hour\n\nOur Final Hour is a 2003 book by the British Astronomer Royal Sir Martin Rees. The full title of the book is Our Final Hour: A Scientist's Warning: How Terror, Error, and Environmental Disaster Threaten Humankind's Future In This Century - On Earth and Beyond. It was published in the United Kingdom under the more prosaic title Our Final Century: Will the Human Race Survive the Twenty-first Century?. \nThe premise of the book is that the Earth and human survival are in far greater danger from the potential effects of modern technology than is commonly realised, and that the 21st century may be a critical moment in history when humanity's fate is decided. Rees discusses a range of existential risks confronting humanity, and controversially estimates that the probability of extinction before 2100 CE is around 50 percent, based on the possibility of malign or accidental release of destructive technology.\n\nIn \"Our Final Hour\", Rees predicts that one of the two following outcomes is inevitable for humanity:\n\n\nIn order to avoid human extinction, Rees advocates control of scientific research worldwide, and control of open access to such research. He states that, in the 1990s, Aum Shinrikyo tried unsuccessfully to obtain an Ebola virus sample, which they could now create in their Mount Fuji lab, using ingredients and instructions from the Internet.\n\nRees has long been active in disarmament campaigns, and although he now sees nuclear warfare as a less probable cause of extinction, he advocates arms control as much as control of science and technology (see also World government). More concerning to him now is the possibility of major bioterrorist attacks, as evidenced by his outstanding bet (registered with the Long Bet Project) that such events will occur within the next twenty years.\n\nIn terms of space exploration and survival through colonization, Rees is an advocate of the free market solution, and believes that the wealthy will push back the frontiers of space.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1839996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1839996", "title": "County of Loon", "text": "County of Loon\n\nThe County of Loon (, ) was a county in the \"ancien regime\" Holy Roman Empire, which corresponded approximately with the Belgian province of Limburg. It was named after the original seat of its count, Loon, which is today called Borgloon. During the middle ages the counts moved their court to a more central position in Kuringen, which is today a part of neighbouring Hasselt, the modern capital.\n\nFrom its beginnings, Loon was associated with the Prince-bishop of Liège and by 1190 the count had come under the bishop's overlordship. In the fourteenth century, the second time the male line ended, the prince-bishops themselves took over the county directly. Loon approximately represented the Dutch-speaking (Historical ) part of the princedom. All of the Dutch-speaking towns in the Prince-Bishopric with the status of being so-called \"Good Cities\" (), were in Loon, and are in Belgian Limburg today. These were Beringen, Bilzen, Borgloon, Bree, Hamont, Hasselt, Herk-de-Stad, Maaseik, Peer and Stokkem.\n\nFrom its earliest times as a county Loon seems to have had lordships in three distinct geographical areas: an eastern part in the Maas river valley district (the Frankish \"Maasau\") on the western bank north of Maastricht, including Maaseik; a northern part in the sandy \"Kempen\" region (), including Bree; and a southern part within the Dutch-speaking part of the fertile hills of Haspengouw () which includes Borgloon itself.\n\nLike other areas which eventually came under the power of the Prince Bishop of Liège, Loon never formally became part of the unified lordship of the \"Low Countries\" which united almost all of the Benelux in the late Middle Ages, and continued to unite almost all of today's Belgium until the \"ancien regime\". Loon and other Liège lordships only joined their neighbours when they all became part of France during the French revolution. After the Battle of Waterloo, they remained connected in the new United Kingdom of the Netherlands. In 1839, the old territory of Loon became the approximate basis of a new province, Limburg, within the new Kingdom of Belgium.\n\nLike many of the counties in the region, records mentioning the county of Loon begin in the early 11th century, but these give only indications of how the county came to be. The immediately preceding generations had seen many rebellions, confiscations, and expulsions. The whole region of Lower Lotharingia had been part of a separate kingdom, but it no longer had a king. The eastern and western kingdoms of the old Carolingian dynasty, the forerunners of later France and Germany, contested for control, together with the local magnates. By the year 1000 the area was under lasting control of the eastern kingdom of Germany and not only Loon, but also other well-known counties such as Hainaut and Leuven, were developing into the forms known in the later Middle Ages. These counties were put together from component parts with complex histories that are now difficult to reconstruct.\n\nIn the early tenth century, at least until 939, it has traditionally been proposed (for example by Christophe Butkens, and much later Leon Vanderkindere) that the so-called Regnarid dynasty had controlled all or most of these areas. In particular, a count named Rudolf, who is proposed by these historians to be the brother of Reginar III, Count of Mons in Hainaut, had a county in the area of Maaseik in 952. This county of Rudolf, called Hufte or Huste in the two old documents which mention it, apparently later came to include lands very close to Borgloon itself, according to a charter estimated to be from 958/959. Furthermore, a Count Rudolf, perhaps the same one, also ruled a neighbouring county to the southwest of Borgloon, outside the future county of Loon, based in Avernas.\n\nIn 958 Reginar III was exiled, and although the two sons of Reginar III returned in 973, and began slowly establishing the power bases that eventually became the counties of Hainaut and Leuven, the fate of their proposed uncle Rudolf is unknown. However, Bishop Balderic II, brother of Count Gilbert of Loon, the first certain count, had common ancestry with Lambert I, Count of Louvain, a descendant of the Reginarids.\n\nAccording to the most widely accepted hypothesis, developed by Leon Vanderkindere and up-dated by Jean Baerten and others, the counts of Loon were related to the Regnarids, but members of the \"Balderics family\", descendants of Count Ricfrid. This family had stronger links to the Ottonian dynasty in Germany than the Regnarids, and two members of this family named Balderic (or Balderich, Palderih, etc.) had already held the powerful bishoprics in Utrecht and Liège at different times in the 10th century. Vanderkindere's proposal stemmed from the discovery of a marriage of a sister of the exile Reginar III with Count Nevelong, a son of Ricfrid, who is known to have had children named Rudolf, and Balderic I (Bishop of Liège 953-959). This family is seen as linking Loon's origins to both the earlier Reginars who had apparently held lordships near Maaseik and Borgloon, as well as to two earlier bishops named Balderic.\n\nVanderkindere specifically proposed that Giselbert the first definite count of Loon was the son of the younger Count Rudolf, not the Regnarid, but his nephew the son of Nevelong. There have been chronological concerns raised about this unproven proposal, because the one record of Rudolf as a boy in 943 is so much earlier than any definite record of Count Giselbert and his brothers in the next century. Furthermore, the only medieval source to mention a parent for Count Giselbert calls him Otto. Although this source is not considered perfectly reliable for this period, Hein Jongbloed has proposed that a record for an Otto in Ghent might correspond to this ancestor. Van Winter on the other hand, has proposed that there may have been an Otto who was son of Rudolf, and father to the first count and his brothers.\n\nWhoever his parents were, the first certain Count (Dutch \"graaf\", Latin \"comes\", French \"comte\") of Loon was the 11th century Giselbert (modern Dutch \"Gijsbert\", equivalent of modern English and French \"Gilbert\"). Exactly what territory he held is still uncertain, and his brother Arnulf is also mentioned as a count in various records. Although all of the charters which describe the brothers as siblings of bishop Balderic II of Liège are later forgeries, there is considered to be enough evidence to be accept this relationship.\n\nA charter dated 24 Jan 1040 mentions a \"county of Haspinga in the \"pagus\" Haspengouw\", which had been the possession of count Arnold, understood to be the brother of Giselbert, also known as Arnulf. With this much debated charter Emperor Henry III granted this county to the Cathedral of Saint-Lambert in Liège. It raises the question of what this county within the \"pagus\" of the same name implied both geographically and legally. Furthermore, there is no record of Arnulf as count of Loon. \"Haspinga\" has been interpreted as being either the same as the county of Loon () or as a lordship which held Loon under it (Baerten, and others), although it might simply have been one geographical part of Hesbaye, different to the one his brother held.\n\nConnected to this open question, not only is the parentage of Giselbert, Arnulf and Balderic unknown, but also their connection to the next two count brothers, Emmo and Otto, is considered uncertain. They are thought to be the sons of either Giselbert or Arnulf. While Giselbert is the obvious proposal, lean towards the position of Verhelst, and favor Arnulf as their father. A major argument for the position of Verhelst is that Emmo named his son and heir Arnulf/Arnold, and the name Giselbert was never used by his descendants. (Otto the brother of Emmo named his son Giselbert, but according to this proposal this name commemorates another Giselbert who was \"advocatus\" of St Truiden, as were both Otto and his son.)\n\nAnother important charter in discussions about the origins of the County of Loon is the 1078 grant by Countess Ermengarde to the Bishop of Liège, of allodial land in key places in the Count of Loon. Her possessions can not be explained by her proposed ancestry, or her known husband, and so it has long been suggested (for example by Vanderkindere, Baerten, and Kupper) that she must have first married a Count of Loon, normally presumed to be Arnold, because he is normally presumed to have had no heirs.\n\nIn the generation after the 3 brothers Balderic, Gilbert, and Arnulf, Count Emmo became the next count of Loon while his brother Count Otto was \"advocatus\" of the Abbey of St Truiden, and the ancestor of a line of counts of Duras, based in the western part of Haspengouw, perhaps through his wife Oda. The county of Duras was held as a fief of the Duchy of Brabant, and was inherited by Otto's son Giselbert, and in turn by his son Otto. It eventually became part of Loon, under Count Gerard around 1194.\n\nCount Arnold (or Arnulf) I, the son of Emmo, is according to Baerten (1969 p. 40), the first Count of Loon for whom we can discuss any political activity. In 1106 he was able to strengthen his position, when he acquired the possessions of the extinct Counts of Rieneck through his marriage. He also probably built the castle which was at Borgloon. His son Arnold II, Count of Loon, founded the Abbey of Averbode.\n\nThe son and heir of Arnold II was Louis (Dutch \"Lodewijk\") I. He founded Averbode Abbey by charter dated 1135, and was count of Loon, \"Stadtgraf\" of Mainz, and count of Rieneck, both in modern Germany. He increased Loon's territory adding (now in Tongeren) together with Bilzen. He strengthened the fort there and gave the city freedoms. He also did the same in Brustem (now in St Truiden), which came under threat as a Loon enclave in the County of Duras.\n\nCount Gerard (sometimes incorrectly called Gerard \"II\"), the next count of Loon and Rieneck, fortified Brustem and Kolmont, and moved the seat of the count to Kuringen. There he founded Herkenrode Abbey, for women living according to the Cistercian rule. In Loon, the enduring conflict with his Liège overlords culminated in an 1179 campaign by Prince-Bishop Rudolf of Zähringen, whose troops devastated the county's capital at Borgloon in 1179. In 1193 he also acquired the county of Duras, but had to accept Brabant's suzerainty over that territory for the time being. This area gave power over church land in Sint-Truiden, Halen, and Herk de Stad, effectively defining what is today still the southwestern border of Belgian Limburg. His son Gerard III was heir, and he in turn passed Loon to Arnold IV, but Rieneck to another son, Louis II.\n\nBy marriage, Count Arnold IV acquired the French-speaking County of Chiny in 1227, and brought the main line of the counts of Loon to the high point of its territorial expansion. The comital male line became extinct with the death of Louis IV of Loon in 1336 and the Loon and Chiny estates were at first inherited by the noble House of Sponheim at Heinsberg with the consent of the Liège bishop. In 1362 Prince-Bishop Engelbert III of the Marck nevertheless seized Loon and finally incorporated it into the Liège territory in 1366.\n\nThe county remained a separate entity (\"quartier\") within Liège, whose prince-bishops assumed the comital title. When the bishopric was annexed by Revolutionary France in 1795, the county of Loon was also disbanded and an adjusted version of the territory became part of the French département of Meuse-Inférieure, along with Dutch Limburg to the east of the Maas. After the defeat of Napoleon, the département became part of the new United Kingdom of the Netherlands in 1815, and received its modern name of Limburg as a way for the kingdom to preserve the old title of the medieval Duchy of Limburg, which was nearby. However, in 1830, Belgium was created, splitting the Kingdom, and the position of Limburg and Luxemburg became a cause of conflict between the two resulting Kingdoms. In 1839, under international arbitration, it was finally decided to split Limburg and Luxemburg into their two modern parts. The western part of Limburg, corresponds roughly to the old County of Loon, and became part of Belgium. Both parts kept their new name of Limburg.\n\n\"Male line extinct, succeeded by:\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1839997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1839997", "title": "David Samuel, 3rd Viscount Samuel", "text": "David Samuel, 3rd Viscount Samuel\n\nDavid Herbert Samuel, 3rd Viscount Samuel OBE (; 8 July 1922 – 7 October 2014) was an Anglo-Israeli chemist and neurobiologist. \n\nSamuel was the son of Edwin Samuel, 2nd Viscount Samuel, and the grandson of Herbert Samuel, 1st Viscount Samuel. He was a second cousin of Rosalind Franklin. He was educated at Balliol College, Oxford, and served in the Royal Artillery in the Second World War in India, Burma and Sumatra, reaching the rank of captain. He then commenced a distinguished academic career, and was one of the founding fathers of the faculty of chemistry at the Weizmann Institute of Science. Late in his career, his scientific interests moved from physical chemistry (particularly chemical kinetics) to neurobiology. He was the author of over 300 publications as well as the book \"Memory: How We Use It, Lose It and Can Improve It\".\n\nFrom 14 November 1978 until 11 November 1999, he was a member of the British House of Lords, making him the only Israeli who ever served in this capacity.\n"}
{"id": "1839998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1839998", "title": "Apistogramma", "text": "Apistogramma\n\nApistogramma is a large genus of freshwater fish in the family Cichlidae found in South America, but also commonly kept in aquariums. They are dwarf cichlids that mostly feed on tiny animals and have breeding behaviors that vary depending on the exact species.\n\n\"Apistogramma\" are exclusively found in tropical and subtropical South America in the lowlands east of the Andes. The highest richness is in the western Amazon Basin and Orinoco Basin, but there are also species in the Guianan Shield, eastern Amazon Basin, rivers flowing into the Atlantic in northern Brazil (Tocantins–Araguaia to Parnaíba) and the Río de la Plata Basin. Although a few species are widespread, most members of this genus have small ranges. Few members of the genus have been evaluated by the IUCN, mostly either ranking as least concern (not threatened) or data deficient (limited available data prevents an evaluation), but some of the highly localized \"Apistogramma\" species likely are threatened. Primary threats to their survival are deforestation (causing changes in their microhabitat) and pollution (for example by oil drilling or mining).\n\n\"Apistogramma\" generally inhabit streams, or edges of rivers or lakes. Most prefer sheltered habitats with leaf litter on the bottom in water with little movement and a shallow depth, up to about , although a few species occur deeper, in fast-flowing water, in more open habitats or at the surface among floating plants.\n\n\"Apistogramma\" are dwarf cichlids with adults reaching between in standard length depending on exact species. Most species are strongly sexually dimorphic, with males generally larger than females and possessing different color patterns than the females (which at least when breeding are most frequently yellow with blackish markings); in a few species this pattern is reversed or the sexes are rather similar. Additionally, they often change color depending on behavior, for example when looking for food, breeding or during aggressive encounters. A few species, including \"A. agassizii\", \"A. cacatuoides\", \"A hongsloi\" and \"A. macmasteri\", have been selectively bred by aquarists to achieve brighter colors than the natural, wild forms.\n\n\"Apistogramma\" are omnivores, but tending towards micropredatory. Their main food items consist of aquatic insect larvae and other small invertebrates, fish fry, algae and plant debris.\n\nBrood care is highly developed, as in most cichlids. Nearly all \"Apistogramma\" species spawn in crevices (small caves), typically in holes in sunken logs or branches, or in leaf litter aggregations. A number of breeding strategies exist in the genus. Some species breed in polygamous harems, while other species form monogamous pairs. Three of the described species, \"A. barlowi\", \"A. megastoma\" and \"A. pantalone\", practice mouthbrooding, either by both parents or only by the female. In most cases, regardless of the breeding strategy, the female is more highly involved with care of the eggs and fry, whilst the male defends a territory from predators. The sex of the fry is affected by the water conditions: In all species where it has been studied warmer water results in more males and in some species more acidic water (lower pH) also results in more males.\n\n\"Apistogramma\" is part of Geophagini and its closest relatives are \"Apistogrammoides\" and \"Taeniacara\". There are currently 93 recognized \"Apistogramma\" species, making it the most species-rich genus of cichlid in the Americas, together with \"Crenicichla\". New species of \"Apistogramma\" are regularly described, and undescribed species—sometimes cryptic—are known to exist in the genus. Several of the recognized species occur in more than one form, and some of these actually may represent separate species, as appears to be the case for the \"Papagayo\" and \"Pebás\" forms, both typically included in \"A. ortegai\". A comprehensive taxonomic review of the genus is necessary. The genus is sometimes divided into subgroups based on the appearance and phylogenetic relationship of the various species.\n\n"}
{"id": "1840002", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840002", "title": "Bill Brooks (coach)", "text": "Bill Brooks (coach)\n\nWilliam Jasper Brooks (October 13, 1922 – November 8, 2010) was an American baseball and basketball coach who is best known for developing the University of North Carolina at Wilmington athletics program from a junior college to a Division I school. Brooks graduated with a Bachelor of Arts from Atlantic Christian College in 1948. In 1951, he was hired by Wilmington College (now UNCW) as their athletic director, basketball coach, baseball coach, and chairman of the health and physical education department. He directed the baseball team to a pair of national junior college baseball championships in 1961 and 1963 and also took the basketball team to the national tournament.\n\nIn 1975, he was named NAIA National Coach of the Year and was inducted into the National Junior College Baseball Coaches Hall of Fame in 1990. Brooks became the first individual associated with UNC Wilmington to be inducted into the North Carolina Sports Hall of Fame in 1991.\n"}
{"id": "1840005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840005", "title": "Wang Jingwei regime", "text": "Wang Jingwei regime\n\nThe Wang Jingwei regime is the common name of the Reorganized National Government of the Republic of China (), the government of the puppet state of the Empire of Japan in eastern China called simply the Republic of China. This should not be confused with the Republic of China under Chiang Kai-shek, which was fighting with the Allies of World War II against Japan. The country was ruled as a one-party republic under Wang Jingwei, a very high-ranking former Kuomintang (KMT) official. The region that it would administer was initially seized by Japan throughout the late 1930s with the beginning of the Second Sino-Japanese War. Wang, a rival of Chiang Kai-shek and member of the pro-peace faction of the KMT, defected to the Japanese side and formed a collaborationist government in occupied Nanking (Nanjing) (the traditional capital of China) in 1940. The new state claimed the entirety of China during its existence, portraying itself as the legitimate inheritors of the Xinhai Revolution and Sun Yat-sen's legacy as opposed to Chiang Kai-shek's government in Chunking (Chongqing), but effectively only Japanese-occupied territory was under its direct control. Its international recognition was limited to other members of the Anti-Comintern Pact, of which it was a signatory. The Reorganized National Government existed until the end of World War II and the surrender of Japan in August 1945, at which point the regime was dissolved and many of its leading members were executed for treason.\n\nThe state was formed by combining the previous Reformed Government (1938–1940) and Provisional Government (1937–1940) of the Republic of China, puppet regimes which ruled the central and northern regions of China that were under Japanese control, respectively. Unlike Wang Jingwei's government, these regimes were not much more than arms of the Japanese military leadership and received no recognition even from Japan itself or its allies. However, after 1940 the former territory of the Provisional Government remained semi-autonomous from Nanjing's control, under the name: the \"North China Political Council\". The region of Mengjiang (puppet government in Inner Mongolia) was under Wang Jingwei's government only nominally. His regime was also hampered by the fact that the powers granted to it by the Japanese were extremely limited, and this was only partly changed with the signing of a new treaty in 1943 which gave it more sovereignty from Japanese control. The Japanese largely viewed it as not an end in itself but the means to an end, a bridge for negotiations with Chiang Kai-shek, which led them to often treat Wang with indifference.\n\nThe regime is informally also known as the \"Nanjing Nationalist Government\" (), the \"Nanjing Regime\", or by its leader \"Wang Jingwei Regime\" (). As the government of the Republic of China and subsequently of the People's Republic of China regard the regime as illegal, it is also commonly known as \"Wang's Puppet Regime\" () or \"Puppet Nationalist Government\" () in Greater China. Other names used are the \"Republic of China-Nanjing\", \"China-Nanjing\", or \"New China\".\n\nWhile Wang Jingwei was widely regarded as a favorite to inherit Sun Yat-sen's position as leader of the Nationalist Party, based upon his faithful service to the party throughout the 1910s and 20s and based on his unique position as the one who accepted and recorded Dr. Sun's last will and testament, he was rapidly overtaken by Chiang Kai-shek. By the 1930s, Wang Jingwei had been taken the position Minister of Foreign Affairs for the Nationalist Government under Chiang Kai-shek, a position that put him in control over the deteriorating Sino-Japanese relationship. While Chiang Kai-shek focused his primary attentions against the Communist Party of China, Wang Jingwei diligently toiled to preserve the peace between China and Japan, repeatedly stressing the need for a period of extended peace in order for China to elevate itself economically and militarily to the levels of its neighbor and the other Great powers of the world. Yet despite his efforts, Wang was unable to find a peaceful solution to prevent the Japanese from commencing an invasion into Chinese territory.\nBy April 1938, the national conference of the KMT, held in retreat at the temporary capital of Chongqing, appointed Wang as vice-president of the party, reporting only to Chiang Kai-shek himself. Meanwhile, the Japanese advance into Chinese territory as part of the Second Sino-Japanese War continued unrelentingly. From his new position, Wang urged Chiang Kai-shek to pursue a peace agreement with Japan on the sole condition that the hypothetical deal \"did not interfere with the territorial integrity of China\". Chiang Kai-shek was adamant, however, that he would countenance no surrender, and that it was his position that, were China to be united completely under his control, the Japanese could readily be repulsed. As a result, Chiang continued to devote his primary attention to eradicating the Communists and ending the Chinese Civil War. On December 18, 1938, Wang Jingwei and several of his closest supporters resigned from their positions and boarded a plane to Hanoi in order to seek alternative means of ending the war.\n\nFrom this new base, Wang began pursuit of a peaceful resolution to the conflict independent of the Nationalist Party in exile. In June 1939, Wang and his supporters began negotiating with the Japanese for the creation of a new Nationalist Government which could end the war despite Chiang's objections. To this end, Wang sought to discredit the Nationalists in Chongqing on the basis that they represented not the republican government envisioned by Dr. Sun, but rather a \"one-party dictatorship\", and subsequently call together a Central Political Conference back to the capital of Nanjing in order to formally transfer control over the party away from Chiang Kai-shek. These efforts were stymied by Japanese refusal to offer backing for Wang and his new government. Ultimately, Wang Jingwei and his allies would establish their almost entirely powerless new party and government in Nanjing in 1940, in the hope that Tokyo might eventually be willing to negotiate a deal for peace, which, though painful, might allow China to survive.\n\nWang and his group were also damaged early on by the defection of the diplomat Gao Zongwu, who played a critical role in arranging Wang's defection after two years of negotiations with the Japanese, in January 1940. He had become disillusioned and believed that Japan did not see China as an equal partner, taking with him the documents of the Basic Treaty that Japan had signed with the Wang Jingwei government. He revealed them to the Kuomintang press, becoming a major propaganda coup for Chiang Kai-shek and discrediting Wang's movement in the eyes of the public as mere puppets of the Japanese.\n\nIn theory, the Reorganized National Government controlled all of China with the exception of Manchukuo, which it recognized as an independent state. In actuality, at the time of its formation, the Reorganized Government controlled only Jiangsu, Anhui, and the north sector of Zhejiang, all being Japanese-controlled territories after 1937.\n\nThereafter, the Reorganized Government's actual borders waxed and waned as the Japanese gained or lost territory during the course of the war. During the December 1941 Japanese offensive the Reorganized Government extended its control over Hunan, Hubei, and parts of Jiangxi provinces. The port of Shanghai and the cities of Hankou and Wuchang were also placed under control of the Reformed Government after 1940.\n\nThe Japanese-controlled provinces of Shandong and Hebei were theoretically part of this political entity, although they were actually administered by the Commander of the Japanese Northern China Area Army under a separate Japanese-controlled government based in Beijing. Likewise, the southern sectors had their own Japanese military commander and government based in Guangzhou.\n\n(also included the national capital of Nanking (Nanjing))\n\nAccording to other sources, total extension of territory during 1940 period was 1,264,000 km.\n\nIn 1940 an agreement was signed between the Inner Mongolian puppet state of Mengjiang and the Nanjing regime, incorporating the former into the latter as an autonomous part.\n\nWith Nanjing still rebuilding itself after the devastating assault and occupation by the Japanese Imperial Army, the fledgling Reorganized Nationalist Government turned to Shanghai as its primary focal point. With its key role as both an economic and media center for all China, close affiliation to Western Imperial powers even despite the Japanese invasion, and relatively sheltered position from attacks by KMT and Communist forces alike, Shanghai offered both sanctuary and opportunity for Wang and his allies' ambitions. Once in Shanghai, the new regime quickly moved to take control over those publications already supportive of Wang and his peace platform, while also engaging in violent, gang-style attacks against rival news outlets. By November 1940, the Reorganized Nationalist Party had secured enough local support to begin hostile takeovers of both Chinese courts and banks still under nominal control by the KMT in Chongqing or Western powers. Buoyed by this rapid influx of seized collateral, the Reorganized Government under its recently appoint Finance Minister, Zhou Fohai, was able to issue a new currency for circulation. Ultimately however, the already limited economic influence garnered by the new banknotes was further diminished by Japanese efforts to contain the influence of the new regime, at least for a time, to territories firmly under Japanese control like Shanghai and other isolated regions of the Yangtze Valley.\n\nThe administrative structure of the Reorganized National Government included a Legislative Yuan and an Executive Yuan. Both were under the president and head of state Wang Jingwei. However, actual political power remained with the commander of the Japanese Central China Area Army and Japanese political entities formed by Japanese political advisors.\n\nAfter obtaining Japanese approval to establish a national government in the summer of 1940, Wang Jingwei ordered the 6th National Congress of the Kuomintang to establish this government in Nanjing. The dedication occurred in the Conference Hall, and both the \"blue-sky white-sun red-earth\" national flag and the \"blue-sky white-sun\" Kuomintang flag were unveiled, flanking a large portrait of Sun Yat-sen.\n\nOn the day the new government was formed, and just before the session of the \"Central Political Conference\" began, Wang visited Sun's tomb in Nanjing's Purple Mountain to establish the legitimacy of his power as Sun's successor. Wang had been a high-level official of the Kuomintang government and, as a confidant to Sun, had transcribed Sun's last will, the Zongli's Testament. To discredit the legitimacy of the Chongqing government, Wang adopted Sun's flag in the hope that it would establish him as the rightful successor to Sun and bring the government back to Nanjing.\n\nA principal goal of the new regime was to portray itself as the legitimate continuation of the former Nationalist government, despite the Japanese occupation. To this end, the Reorganized government frequently sought to revitalize and expand the former policies of the Nationalist government, often to mixed success.\n\nWhile Wang had been successful in securing from Japan a \"basic treaty\" recognizing the foundation of his new party in November 1940, the produced document granted the Reorganized Nationalist Government almost no powers whatsoever. This initial treaty precluded any possibility for Wang to act as intermediary with Chiang Kai-shek and his forces in securing a peace agreement in China. Likewise, the regime was afforded no extra administrative powers in occupied China, save those few previously carved out in Shanghai. Indeed, official Japanese correspondence regarded the Nanjing regime as trivially important, and urged any and all token representatives stationed with Wang and his allies to dismiss all diplomatic efforts by the new government which could not directly contribute to a total military victory over Chiang and his forces. Hoping to expand the treaty in such a way as to be useful, Wang formally traveled to Tokyo in June 1941 in order to meet with prime minister Fumimaro Konoe and his cabinet to discuss new terms and agreements. Unfortunately for Wang, his visit coincided with the Nazi invasion of the Soviet Union, a move which further emboldened officials in Tokyo to pursue total victory in China, rather than accept a peace deal. In the end, Konoe eventually agreed to provide a substantial loan to the Nanjing government as well as increased sovereignty; neither of which came to fruition, and indeed, neither of which were even mentioned to military commanders stationed in China. As a slight conciliation, Wang was successful in persuading the Japanese to secure official recognition for the Nanjing Government from the other Axis Powers.\n\nAs the Japanese offensive stalled around the Pacific, conditions remained generally consistent under Wang Jingwei's government. The regime continued to represent itself as the legitimate government of China, continued to appeal to Chiang Kai-shek to seek a peace deal, and continued to chafe under the extremely limited sovereignty afforded by the Japanese occupiers. Yet by 1943, Japanese leaders including Hideki Tojo, recognizing that the tide of war was turning against them, sought new ways to reinforce the thinly stretched Japanese forces. To this end, Tokyo finally found it expedient to fully recognize Wang Jingwei's government as a full ally, and a replacement Pact of Alliance was drafted for the basic treaty. This new agreement granted the Nanjing government markedly enhanced administrative control over its own territory, as well as increased ability to make limited self-decisions. Despite this windfall, the deal came far too late for the Reorganized government to have sufficient resources to take advantage of its new powers, and Japan was in no condition to offer aid to its new partner.\n\nAs a result of general chaos and wartime various profiteering efforts of the conquering Japanese armies, already considerable illegal opium smuggling operations expanded greatly in the Reorganized Nation Government's territory. Indeed, Japanese forces themselves became arguably the largest and most widespread traffickers within the territory under the auspices of semi-official narcotics monopolies. While initially too politically weak to make inroads into the Japanese operations, as the war began to turn against them, the Japanese government sought to incorporate some collaborationist governments more actively into the war effort. To this end in October 1943 the Japanese government signed a treaty with the Reorganized Nationalist Government of China offering them a greater degree of control over their own territory. As a result, Wang Jingwei and his government were able to gain some increased control over the opium monopolies. Negotiations by Chen Gongbo were successful in reaching an agreement to cut opium imports from Mongolia in half, as well as an official turnover of state-sponsored monopolies from Japan over to the Reorganized Nationalist Government. Yet, perhaps due to financial concerns, the regime sought only limited reductions in the distribution of opium throughout the remainder of the war.\n\nThe Beijing administration (East Yi Anti-Communist Autonomous Administration) was under the commander-in-chief of the Japanese Northern China Area Army until the Yellow River area fell inside the sphere of influence of the Japanese Central China Area Army. During this same period the area from middle Zhejiang to Guangdong was administered by the Japanese North China Area Army. These small, largely independent fiefdoms had local money and local leaders, and frequently squabbled.\n\nWang Jingwei traveled to Tokyo in 1941 for meetings. In Tokyo the Reorganized National Government Vice President Zhou Fohai commented to the \"Asahi Shimbun\" newspaper that the Japanese establishment was making little progress in the Nanjing area. This quote provoked anger from Kumataro Honda, the Japanese ambassador in Nanjing. Zhou Fohai petitioned for total control of China's central provinces by the Reorganized National Government. In response, Imperial Japanese Army Lt. Gen. Teiichi Suzuki was ordered to provide military guidance to the Reorganized National Government, and so became part of the real power that lay behind Wang's rule.\n\nWith the permission of the Japanese Army, a monopolistic economic policy was applied, to the benefit of Japanese zaibatsu and local representatives. Though these companies were supposedly treated the same as local Chinese companies by the government, the president of the Yuan legislature in Nanjing, Chen Gongbo, complained that this was untrue to the \"Kaizō\" Japanese review. The Reorganized National Government of the Republic of China also featured its own embassy in Yokohama, Japan (as did Manchukuo).\n\nThe Nanjing Nationalist Government received little international recognition as it was seen as a Japanese puppet state, being recognized only by Japan and the rest of the Axis powers. Initially, its main sponsor, Japan, hoped to come to a peace accord with Chiang Kai-shek and held off official diplomatic recognition for the Wang Jingwei regime for eight months after its founding, not establishing formal diplomatic relations with the National Reorganized Government until 30 November 1940. The Sino-Japanese Basic Treaty was signed on 20 November 1940, by which Japan recognised the Nationalist Government, and it also included a Japan–Manchukuo–China joint declaration by which China recognized the Empire of Great Manchuria and the three countries pledged to create a \"New Order in East Asia.\" The United States and Britain immediately denounced the formation of the government, seeing it as a tool of Japanese imperialism. In July 1941, after negotiations by Foreign Minister Chu Minyi, the Nanjing Government was recognized as the government of China by Germany and Italy. Soon after, Spain, Slovakia, Romania, Bulgaria, Croatia, and Denmark also recognized and established relations with the Wang Jingwei regime as the government of China. China under the Reorganized National Government also became a signatory of the Anti-Comintern Pact on 25 November 1941. \n\nAfter Japan established diplomatic relations with the Holy See in 1942, they and their ally Italy pressured Pope Pius XII to recognize the Nanjing regime and allow a Chinese envoy to be appointed to the Vatican, but he refused to give in to these pressures. Instead the Vatican came to an informal agreement with Japan that their apostolic delegate in Beijing would pay visits to Catholics in the Nanjing government's territory. The Pope also ignored the suggestion of the aforementioned apostolic delegate, Mario Zanin, who recommended in October 1941 that the Vatican recognize the Wang Jingwei regime as the legitimate government of China. Zanin would remain in the Wang Jingwei regime's territory as apostolic delegate while another bishop in Chongqing was to represent Catholic interests in Chiang Kai-shek's territory. Vichy France, despite being aligned with the Axis, resisted Japanese pressure and also refused to recognize the Wang Jingwei regime, with French diplomats in China remaining accredited to the government of Chiang Kai-shek.\n\nThe Reorganized National Government had its own Foreign Section or Ministry of Foreign Affairs for managing international relations, although it was short on personnel.\n\nOn 9 January 1943, the Reorganized National Government signed the \"Treaty on Returning Leased Territories and Repealing Extraterritoriality Rights\" with Japan, which abolished all foreign concessions within occupied China. Reportedly the date was originally to have been later that month, but was moved to January 9 to be before the United States concluded a similar treaty with Chiang Kai-shek's government. The Nanjing Government then took control of all of the international concessions in Shanghai and its other territories. Later that year Wang Jingwei attended the Greater East Asia Conference as the Chinese representative. \n\nThe Wang Jingwei government sent Chinese athletes to compete at the 1940 East Asian Games held in Tokyo for the 2600th anniversary of the founding of the Japanese Empire by Emperor Jimmu, which were also a replacement for the cancelled 1940 Summer Olympics, including the national football team. None of the top Chinese players were on the team.\n\nAfter Japan's pivot to joining the Axis powers and signing the Tripartite Pact, Wang Jingwei's government promoted the idea of pan-Asianism directed against the West, aimed at establishing a \"New Order in East Asia\" together with Japan, Manchukuo, and other Asian nations that would expel Western imperialist powers from China and the whole region, particularly the \"Anglo-Saxons\" (the U.S. and Britain) that dominated large parts of Asia. Wang Jingwei used pan-Asianism, basing his views on Sun Yat-sen advocating for Asian people to unite against the West in the early 20th century, partly to justify his efforts at working together with Japan. He claimed it was natural for Japan and China to have good relations and cooperation because of their close affinity, describing their conflicts as a temporary aberration in their history. Furthermore the government believed in the unity of all Asian nations with Japan as their leader as the only way to achieve their goals of removing European imperialist powers from Asia. There was no official description of which Asian peoples were considered to be included in this, but Wang, members of the Propaganda Ministry, and other officials of his regime writing for collaborationist media had different interpretations, at times listing Japan, China, Manchukuo, Thailand, the Philippines, Burma, Nepal, India, Afghanistan, Iran, Iraq, Syria, and Arabia as potential members of an \"East Asian League.\"\n\nFrom 1940 on the Wang Jingwei government depicted World War II as a struggle by Asians against Westerners, more specifically the Anglo-American powers. The Reorganized National Government had a Propaganda Ministry and controlled the local media, which was used to disseminate pan-Asianist and anti-Western propaganda. British and American diplomats in Shanghai and Nanjing noted by 1940 that the Wang Jingwei-controlled press was publishing anti-Western campaigns. These campaigns were aided by the Japanese and also reflected pan-Asian thought as promoted by Japanese thinkers, which intensified after the start of the Pacific War in December 1941. Articles were published in local newspapers and journals that listed historic atrocities committed by Western countries against native peoples in their colonies. Chu Minyi, the minister of foreign affairs of the Nanjing Government, asserted in an article written shortly after Pearl Harbor that the Sino-Japanese conflict and other wars among Asians were the result of manipulations by the Western powers. Lin Baisheng, the minister of propaganda from 1940 to 1944, also made these claims in his speeches.\n\nSince Japan was aligned with Germany, Italy, and other European Axis countries, the Nanjing Government's propaganda did not portray the conflict as a war against all white people and focused on the U.S. and Britain in particular. Their newspapers like \"Republican Daily\" praised the German people as a great race for their technological and organizational advancements and praised the Nazis for turning Germany into a great power over the past decade. The publications of the Nanjing Government also agreed with the anti-Jewish views held by Nazi Germany, with Wang Jingwei and other officials seeing Jews as dominating the American government and being conspirators with the Anglo-American powers to control the world.\n\nThe government also took measures to ban the spread of Anglo-American culture and lifestyle among Chinese people in its territory and promoted traditional Confucian culture. Generally it considered Eastern spiritual culture to be superior to the Western culture of materialism, individualism, and liberalism. Christian missionary schools and missionary activities were banned, the study of English language in schools was reduced, and the usage of English in the postal and customs system was gradually reduced as well. Vice minister of education Tai Yingfu called for a campaign against the Anglo-American nations in education. Zhou Huaren, vice minister of propaganda, blamed Chinese students that studied in the West for spreading Western values among the population and disparaging traditional Chinese culture. Wang Jingwei blamed Communism, Anarchism, and Internationalism (which Wang considered Anglo-American thinking) for making other peoples despise their own culture and embracing the Anglo-American culture. He believed it was necessary to promote Confucianism to oppose Anglo-American \"cultural aggression.\" At the same time, Zhou Huaren and others also thought that it was necessary to adopt Western scientific advancements while combining them with traditional Eastern culture to develop themselves, as he said Japan did in the Meiji Restoration, seeing that as a model for others to follow.\n\nDuring its existence, the Reorganized National Government nominally led a large army that was estimated to have included 300,000 to 500,000 men, along with a smaller navy and air force. Although its land forces possessed limited armor and artillery, they were primarily an infantry force. Military aid from Japan was also very limited despite Japanese promises to assist the Nanjing regime in the \"Japan–China Military Affairs Agreement\" that they signed. All military matters were the responsibility of the Central Military Commission, but in practice that body was mainly a ceremonial one. In reality, many of the army's commanders operated outside of the direct command of the central government in Nanjing. The majority of its officers were either former National Revolutionary Army personnel or warlord officers from the early Republican era. Thus their reliability and combat capability was questionable, and Wang Jingwei was estimated to only be able to count on the loyalty of about 10% to 15% of his nominal forces. Among the reorganized government's best units were three Capital Guards divisions based in Nanjing, Zhou Fohai's Taxation Police Corps, and the 1st Front Army of Ren Yuandao.\n\nThe majority of the government's forces were armed with a mix of captured Nationalist weaponry and a small amount of Japanese equipment, the latter mainly being given to Nanjing's best units. The lack of local military industry for the duration of the war meant that the Nanjing regime had trouble arming its troops. While the army was mainly an infantry force, in 1941 it did receive 18 Type 94 tankettes for a token armored force, and reportedly they also received 20 armored cars and 24 motorcycles. The main type of artillery in use were medium mortars, but they also possessed 31 field guns (which included Model 1917 mountain guns)—mainly used by the Guards divisions. Oftentimes, the troops were equipped with the German Stahlhelm, which were used in large quantities by the Chinese Nationalist Army. For small arms, there was no standard rifle and a large variety of different weapons were used, which made supplying them with ammunition difficult. The most common rifles in use was the Chinese version of the Mauser 98k and the Hanyang 88, while other notable weapons included Chinese copies of the Czechoslovakian ZB-26 machine guns.\n\nAlong with the great variation in equipment, there was also a disparity in sizes of units. Some \"armies\" had only a few thousand troops while some \"divisions\" several thousand. There as a standard divisional structure, but only the elite Guards divisions closer to the capital actually had anything resembling it. In addition to these regular army forces, there were multiple police and local militia, which numbered in the tens of thousands, but were deemed to be completely unreliable by the Japanese. Most of the units located around Beijing in northern China remained, in effect, under the authority of the North China Political Council rather than that of the central government. In an attempt to improve the quality of the officer corps, multiple military academies had been opened, including a Central Military Academy in Nanjing and a Naval Academy in Shanghai. In addition there was a military academy in Beijing for the North China Political Council's forces, and a branch of the central academy in Canton.\n\nA small navy was established with naval bases at Weihaiwei and Qingdao, but it mostly consisted of small patrol boats that were used for coastal and river defense. Reportedly, the captured Nationalist cruisers \"Ning Hai\" and \"Ping Hai\" were handed over to the government by the Japanese, becoming important propaganda tools. However, the Imperial Japanese Navy took them back in 1943 for its own use. In addition there were two regiments of marines, one at Canton and the other at Weihaiwei. By 1944, the navy was under direct command of Ren Yuandao, the naval minister. An Air Force of the Reorganized National Government was established in May 1941 with the opening of the Aviation School and receiving three aircraft, Tachikawa Ki-9 trainers. In the future the air force received additional Ki-9 and Ki-55 trainers as well as multiple transports. Plans by Wang Jingwei to form a fighter squadron with Nakajima Ki-27s did not come to fruition as the Japanese did not trust the pilots enough to give them combat aircraft. Morale was low and a number of defections took place. The only two offensive aircraft they did possess were Tupolev SB bombers which were flown by defecting Nationalist crews.\n\nThe Reorganized National Government's army was primarily tasked with garrison and police duties in the occupied territories. It also took part in anti-partisan operations against Communist guerrillas, such as in the Hundred Regiments Offensive, or played supporting roles for the Imperial Japanese Army (IJA). The Nanjing Government undertook a \"rural pacification\" campaign to eradicate communists from the countryside, arresting and executing many people suspected of being communists, with support from the Japanese.\n\nDuring the conflicts in central China, the Japanese utilized several methods to recruit Chinese volunteers. Japanese sympathisers including Nanjing's pro-Japanese governor, or major local landowners such as Tao-liang, were used to recruit local peasants in return for money or food. The Japanese recruited 5,000 volunteers in the Anhui area for the Reorganized National Government Army. Japanese forces and the Reorganized National Government used slogans like \"Drop Your Weapons, and Take the Plow\", \"Oppose the Communist Bandits\" or \"Oppose Corrupt Government and Support the Reformed Government\" to dissuade guerrilla attacks and buttress its support.\n\nThe Japanese used various methods for subjugating the local populace. Initially, fear was used to maintain order, but this approach was altered following appraisals by Japanese military ideologists. In 1939, the Japanese army attempted some populist policies, including:\n\nBuddhist leaders inside the occupied Chinese territories (\"Shao-Kung\") were also forced to give public speeches and persuade people of the virtues of a Chinese alliance with Japan, including advocating the breaking-off of all relations with Western powers and ideas.\n\nIn 1938, a manifesto was launched in Shanghai, reminding the populace the Japanese alliance's track-record in maintaining \"moral supremacy\" as compared to the often fractious nature of the previous Republican control, and also accusing Generalissimo Chiang Kai-Shek of treason for maintaining the Western alliance.\n\nIn support of such efforts, in 1941 Wang Jing-wei proposed the Qingxiang Plan to be applied along the lower course of the Yangtze River. A Qingxiang Plan Committee (\"Qingxiang Weiyuan-hui\") was formed with himself as Chairman, and Zhou Fohai and Chen Gongbo (as first and second vice-chairmen respectively). Li Shiqun was made the Committee's secretary. Beginning in July 1941, Wang maintained that any areas to which the plan was applied would convert into \"model areas of peace, anti-communism, and rebuilders of the country\" (\"heping fangong jianguo mofanqu\"). It was not a success.\n\nThe North China Transportation Company and the Central China Railway were established by the former Provisional Government and Reformed Government, which had nationalised private railway and bus companies that operated in their territories, and continued to function providing railway and bus services in the Nanjing regime's territory.\n\nJapanese under the regime had greater access to coveted wartime luxuries, and the Japanese enjoyed things like matches, rice, tea, coffee, cigars, foods, and alcoholic drinks, all of which were scarce in Japan proper, but consumer goods became more scarce after Japan entered World War II. In Japanese-occupied Chinese territories the prices of basic necessities rose substantially as Japan's war effort expanded. In Shanghai in 1941, they increased elevenfold.\n\nDaily life was often difficult in the Nanjing Nationalist Government-controlled Republic of China, and grew increasingly so as the war turned against Japan (c. 1943). Local residents resorted to the black market in order to obtain needed items or to influence the ruling establishment. The Kempeitai (Japanese Military Police Corps), Tokubetsu Kōtō Keisatsu (Special Higher Police), collaborationist Chinese police, and Chinese citizens in the service of the Japanese all worked to censor information, monitor any opposition, and torture enemies and dissenters. A \"native\" secret agency, the \"Tewu\", was created with the aid of Japanese Army \"advisors\". The Japanese also established prisoner-of-war detention centres, concentration camps, and kamikaze training centres to indoctrinate pilots.\n\nSince Wang's government held authority only over territories under Japanese military occupation, there was a limited amount that officials loyal to Wang could do to ease the suffering of Chinese under Japanese occupation. Wang himself became a focal point of anti-Japanese resistance. He was demonised and branded as an \"arch-traitor\" in both KMT and Communist rhetoric. Wang and his government were deeply unpopular with the Chinese populace, who regarded them as traitors to both the Chinese state and Han Chinese identity. Wang's rule was constantly undermined by resistance and sabotage.\n\nThe strategy of the local education system was to create a workforce suited for employment in factories and mines, and for manual labor. The Japanese also attempted to introduce their culture and dress to the Chinese. Complaints and agitation called for more meaningful Chinese educational development. Shinto temples and similar cultural centers were built in order to instill Japanese culture and values. These activities came to a halt at the end of the war.\n\nLocal administration:\n\nForeign representatives and diplomatic personnel:\n\nHaving died before the war had ended, Wang Jingwei was unable to join his fellow Reorganized Nationalist Government leaders on trial for treason in the months that followed the Japanese surrender. Instead he, alongside his vice president Chen Gongbo who was tried and sentenced to death by the victorious Nationalists, was given the title Hanjian meaning arch-traitor to the Han people. In the following decades, Wang Jingwei and the entire reputation of the collaborationist government have undergone considerable scholastic debate. In general, evaluations produced by scholars working under the People's Republic of China have held the most critical interpretations of the failed regime, Western scholars typically holding the government and Wang Jingwei especially in a sympathetic light, with Taiwanese scholars falling somewhere in the middle.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1840008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840008", "title": "Edwin Samuel, 2nd Viscount Samuel", "text": "Edwin Samuel, 2nd Viscount Samuel\n\nEdwin Herbert Samuel, 2nd Viscount Samuel CMG (; 11 September 1898 – 14 November 1978), was the son of Beatrice Franklin and Herbert Samuel, and the father of Professor David Samuel and Dan Samuel. He served in the Jewish Legion. He also served as the last mandate-era director of the Palestine Broadcasting Service.\n\nHe was educated at Westminster School and Balliol College, Oxford. In the spring of 1917 he joined the Royal Artillery and was posted to the Egyptian Expeditionary Force. After the First World War he joined the Mandatory Government in Palestine.\n\nAs a viscount, he served as a peer in the House of Lords. One of his significant acts was to have the law that forbade marriage between a woman and her brother-in-law repealed. His explicit intent was to allow a man to fulfil his responsibility under the Judaic Biblical law of levirate marriage, as described in the Book of Deuteronomy, whereby the brother of a man who dies childless must marry the widow.\n\nLord Samuel was the initiator of the Knesset Menorah project which eventually led to the huge bronze candelabrum presented by the British parliament to the State of Israel in 1956.\n\n"}
{"id": "1840015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840015", "title": "Jurong West", "text": "Jurong West\n\nJurong West is a planning area and residential town located in the West Region of Singapore. Jurong West shares with Tengah in the north, Jurong East in the east, Boon Lay and Pioneer in the south, and Western Water Catchment in the west.\n\nOriginally a forested area, Jurong West is undergoing rapid development under the ambition of the Housing and Development Board (HDB) to transform it into a fully mature housing estate.\n\nJurong West originated from the area once called Peng Kang, named after the gambier plantations along Sungei Jurong. By the mid-20th century, the area was home to several brickworks, palm oil plantations and nurseries. At that time, the only public housing estates in Jurong West were Boon Lay and Taman Jurong. Jurong West was largely left alone until 1984, when the HDB began conceptualisation for a new town in Jurong West. Jurong West was carved into nine subzones that would house a total of 94,000 public and private housing units in the long term.\n\nThe town's first apartment blocks (known locally as \"flats\") were completed at Taman Jurong in 1963. By November 2004, about 71,522 dwelling units were completed. As of 31 March 2018, there are 74,301 HDB dwelling units in Jurong West.\n\nJurong West is a primarily residential town situated west of Tengah New Town in the western part of Singapore, under the West Region as defined by the Urban Redevelopment Authority (URA).\n\nThe town is bordered to the north by the Pan Island Expressway (PIE), to the east by Sungei Jurong (Jurong River) and Jurong Lake, to the south by the Ayer Rajah Expressway (AYE), and to the west by Benoi Road and Upper Jurong Road. Jurong West Town Centre is located in Jurong West Central. An industrial area, part of the Jurong Industrial Estate, is located south of Boon Lay Way and Upper Jurong Road. Another industrial area is currently under development in Wenya as part of the Jurong Innovation District.\n\nJurong West New Town is divided into the following nine subzones.\n\nAs of 2018, Jurong West has a population of 266,720, most of whom are part of the working population. The most populous subzone is Yunnan with 68,840 residents, closely followed by Jurong West Central with 65,720 residents. Chin Bee, however, has just ten residents, while Safti is completely unpopulated. Packed into an area of , of which just are designated as residential areas, Jurong West has a population density of 27,000 people per km (70,000 per mi).\n\nJurong West's two main rivers, Sungei Jurong and Sungei Lanchar, run through the town with a network of green connectors along their banks. They link housing precincts to neighborhood parks such as Jurong Central Park, as well as the Jurong West Sports Centre, Jurong West Stadium and Frontier Community Centre. These park connectors are linked to the Chinese Garden in Jurong East New Town and the Bukit Batok Town Park in the north, to better serve the recreational needs of the residents of Jurong West. Jurong Central Park, located in Kian Teck, is a rectangular green space created behind Boon Lay MRT station.\n\nJurong West's major public transport amenities were built in tandem with the main public housing development. The elevated track infrastructure of the East West MRT line was developed as the existing public housing blocks were being built in the 1980s. The amenities were built in a contiguous building complex, which gives commuters direct access between Boon Lay MRT station, Boon Lay Bus Interchange, The Centris condominium and Jurong Point shopping centre.\n\nCity planners plan for public transport to eventually become the preferred mode of transport. The government of Singapore uses public transport to reduce pollution caused by heavy road traffic. Jurong West is part of the Urban Redevelopment Authority's focus for realising this urban planning model. As Jurong West is relatively distant from the city centre at the Central Area, an efficient, high-volume and high-speed public transport system is also preferred to using road networks, as the government is aiming to reduce the number of cars on the road.\n\nJurong West Town is linked to the rest of Singapore through the East West Line (EWL) at Boon Lay MRT Station, located at the Town Centre. The EWL is a heavy rail mass rapid transit system, and connects to other systems in the MRT network. It is operated by SMRT.\n\nThere are three Mass Rapid Transit (MRT) stations that serve Jurong West Planning Area, which are Lakeside, Boon Lay and Pioneer.\n\nThe Boon Lay MRT Station is located next to Boon Lay Bus Interchange for commuters' ease of switching across different modes of public transport. The MRT station began operations on 6 July 1990, as the western terminus of the East West Line, before additional stations were added further west of the line at Pioneer and Joo Koon on 28 February 2009.\n\nLakeside (EW26), another station along the EWL in Jurong West Town, serves the housing developments in Taman Jurong, Hong Kah and Boon Lay. The station began operations on 5 November 1988.\n\nPioneer (EW28) is the newest EWL station to open in Jurong West, on 28 February 2009. The station improves accessibility to residential areas of Nanyang and Pioneer, as well as the industrial areas located south of the station.\n\nThe inter-town Jurong Region Line (JRL) system is a 24 km mass rapid transit line that will connect residents to the town centre, as well as other areas such as Tengah, Choa Chu Kang and Jurong East. The MRT line will have 24 stations and all will be elevated. The line will open in 2026.\n\nThe Boon Lay Bus Interchange was originally opened in July 1990 along with Boon Lay MRT station. At that time, developments around the area in Jurong West New Town were still actively in progress. It was later rebuilt and reopened in December 2009 at the ground level of Jurong Point Shopping Centre, next to Centris condominium, and is the fourth air-conditioned bus interchange in Singapore, after Toa Payoh Bus Interchange, Sengkang Bus Interchange and Ang Mo Kio Bus Interchange.\n\nJurong West is connected to many parts of Singapore through its road network. The Pan Island Expressway (PIE) and Ayer Rajah Expressway (AYE) link Jurong West Town up with Singapore's expressway network.\n\nMajor roads that run within the boundaries of Jurong West Planning Area include Corporation Road, Boon Lay Way, Jalan Boon Lay, Jalan Bahar, Upper Jurong Road, Pioneer Road North, Jurong West Avenue 4 and Jurong West Avenue 2.\n\nThere are four major building complexes within the Jurong West Town Centre.\n\nJurong Point Shopping Centre is Singapore's largest suburban shopping centre. The shopping centre started operations in December 1995 and expanded twice in 1999 and 2008.\n\nThe Centris is a private condominium that is located above Jurong Point Shopping Centre.\n\nThe Jurong West Community Building is an integrated development comprising the Jurong West Public Library, The Frontier Community Club and Jurong Medical Centre. It is located behind Jurong Point Shopping Centre.\n\nBoon Lay Interchange, located in the centre of the town, consists of the Boon Lay Bus Interchange and Boon Lay MRT Station.\n\nThere are 12 primary schools, 11 secondary schools and 2 international schools in Jurong West New Town.\n\nJurong Fire Station, which opened on 17 November 2017, is the first fire station in Singapore to have a slide. The fire station covers 4,000 square metres, and is used by the Singapore Civil Defence Force.\n\nPioneer Polyclinic is a government healthcare institution serving the local community in Jurong West. The polyclinic was opened in January 2018. Also located in Jurong West is the Jurong Medical Centre, which complements the acute and step-down care services of Ng Teng Fong General Hospital and Jurong Community Hospital.\n\nJurong West Sports Centre, formerly known as Jurong West Sports and Recreation Centre, is the largest sports centre in Singapore, and offers one of the two sheltered pools managed by Sport Singapore.\n\nCurrently, Jurong West is represented in the Parliament of Singapore by six members of parliament (MPs): one MP from Choa Chu Kang GRC, one MP from Hong Kah North SMC, two MPs from Jurong GRC, one MP from Pioneer SMC, and one MP from West Coast GRC.\n\nWith effect from the 2020 General Election, Jurong West will be represented in the Parliament of Singapore by five members of parliament (MPs): two MPs from Jurong GRC, one MP from Pioneer SMC, and two MPs from West Coast GRC.\n\n"}
{"id": "1840021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840021", "title": "Bow Brickhill railway station", "text": "Bow Brickhill railway station\n\nBow Brickhill railway station is a railway station that serves the village of Bow Brickhill in the Borough of Milton Keynes, Buckinghamshire, and the Caldecotte, Tilbrook and Walton areas of south-east Milton Keynes itself. It is on the Bletchley — Bedford Marston Vale Line, about 2 miles (3.25 km) east of Bletchley.\n\nThe station is served by London Northwestern Railway local services from Bletchley to Bedford. Services are operated using Class 230/1 multiple units. This station is one of the six stations serving the Milton Keynes urban area.\n\nThe London and North Western Railway opened Bow Brickhill station in 1905, significantly later than many other stations on the branch. It was one of seven halts built for the introduction of a steam rail motor service over the line. It closed temporarily during the first World War as an economy measure, from Jan 1917 to May 1919. Bow Brickhill lost its staffing and gated level crossing to modernisation in the 1980s, and since then the station has been unmanned except for two security cameras operated from other stations.\n\nUntil 2004 Bow Brickhill was unique on the line for having staggered platforms. The purpose of this is so that road traffic on the level crossing is not held up by trains standing still in the platform. However recently a number of other stations on the line including Aspley Guise have been rebuilt to have their platforms staggered also as part of the Bedford-Bletchley route modernisation.\nAnother oddity about Bow Brickill is that the road crossing here, the V10 Brickhill Street, has a roundabout immediately on either side of the crossing. This causes traffic jams whenever the crossing barriers are down, as each roundabout clogs with the traffic queue and remains so for up to ten minutes. Milton Keynes Council has a long-term plan for the level crossing to be replaced with a bridge, but the Transport and Works Act Order for East West Rail exempts Network Rail from any obligation to provide such a bridge as part of its works on revitalising this line.\n\nAn hourly service is provided in each direction to and to Monday to Saturday. There is no Sunday service.\n\nBow Brickhill station, in common with others on the Marston Vale Line, is covered by the Marston Vale Community Rail Partnership, which aims to increase use of the line by involving local people.\n\nThe station is on Brickhill Street (V10) near its junction with Station Road, about west of Bow Brickhill. The nearest post-code is MK17 9FH. In the chainage notation traditionally used on the railway, it is from Bletchley station on the line to Bedford.\n"}
{"id": "1840022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840022", "title": "Pro Wrestling Illustrated", "text": "Pro Wrestling Illustrated\n\nPro Wrestling Illustrated (\"PWI\") is an American internationally sold professional wrestling magazine that was founded in 1979. \"PWI\" is headquartered in Blue Bell, Pennsylvania, and published by Kappa Publishing Group. The magazine is the longest published English language wrestling magazine still in production. \"PWI\" publishes monthly issues and annual special issues such as their \"Almanac and Book of Facts\". The magazine recognizes various world championships as legitimate, similar to \"The Ring\" in boxing.\n\n\"PWI\" is often referred to as an \"Apter Mag\", named after its long time photographer Bill Apter, a term used for wrestling magazines that keep kayfabe. In recent years, the \"PWI\" has moved away from reporting on storylines as actual news and mixed in editorial comments on the behind the scenes workings.\n\nEach year since 1991, \"PWI\" publishes every year their \"Top 500 Wrestlers\" in the world list. In 2008, they added a yearly \"Top 50 Female wrestlers\" list which was expanded and renamed to \"Top 100 Female Wrestlers\" in 2018.\n\nThe first issue of \"Pro Wrestling Illustrated\" was released in 1979. The magazine soon became known for not breaking kayfabe in its articles as it traditionally treated all \"angles\", or storylines, as real. However, in more recent years the magazine has taken an editorial approach between kayfabe and \"shoot\" writing, differentiating between on-screen feuds and controversies behind the scenes. \"PWI\" is not limited to covering only prominent professional wrestling promotions, as it also covers multiple independent promotions in the United States. \"PWI\" also publishes other special issues, which include: \"Pro Wrestling Illustrated Wrestling Almanac & Book of Facts\" since 1996, \"Women of Wrestling\" and a weekly newsletter entitled \"PWI Weekly\" from 1989 to 2000. It was eventually acquired by Golden Boy Enterprises.\n\n\"PWI\" has given out annual awards and recognitions since its inception. These awards had previously been given out by another \"Victory Sports Magazine\" property, \"Sports Review Wrestling\". \"PWI\" has also given out monthly rankings for the big promotions, some select independents, and an overall rankings in singles and tag teams. Additionally, readers are given the ability vote for the winners of the year-end awards with ballots being included in special year-end issues. A special \"PWI\" Awards magazine is issued annually, which reveals winners and the number of votes counted. The following is a list of categories in which \"PWI\" has issued awards.\n\n\nAlthough many wrestling organisations promote their lead title as a World Heavyweight Championship, \"PWI\" has only recognized a few top versions as valid World titles at any one time. With regard to the NWA World Heavyweight championship, \"PWI\" has generally recognized the lineage retrospectively traced by the NWA from its 1948 formation back to Georg Hackenschmidt in 1905. \"PWI\" has also recognized any tag team title corresponding to a recognized World title as a World Tag Team Championship.\n\nUntil March 1991, \"Pro Wrestling Illustrated\" and its sister publications steadfastly referred to WCW as \"the NWA\" despite WCW having increasingly phased out the latter name in the preceding months. In Spring 1991, the family of magazines adopted a new policy of referring to the current promotion and its champions as WCW and the promotion's pre-1991 past as the NWA. The magazine also announced it would refer to the overall history of the World title as the \"NWA/WCW World Championship\" (and likewise with other WCW championships). \nSubsequently, after Ric Flair left WCW and was stripped of the WCW World Heavyweight Championship in July 1991, \"PWI\" and its sister publications nonetheless continued to recognize the WCW title as held by Lex Luger, Sting, Vader and Ron Simmons as the rightful continuation of the historic NWA World Heavyweight Championship. When Masa Chono won an NWA World title tournament in Japan in August 1992, \"PWI\" and its sister publications only recognized Chono's title as the \"NWA Championship\" and rejected it as a World title or as a continuation of the historic NWA World title.\n\nIn 1983, \"Pro Wrestling Illustrated\" withdrew world title recognition from the WWF, citing how champion Bob Backlund was not facing contenders from outside the WWF territory and furthermore was only facing rulebreakers. This coincided with the WWF's withdrawal from the NWA in summer 1983. PWI reinstated world title recognition in 1985 on account of the WWF's massive mainstream media profile.\n\nThe AWA was stripped of world title recognition in January 1991 when the promotion was in its final months. By this time, the AWA World Heavyweight Championship was vacant and would remain so until the promotion's closure in August that year. ECW was finally granted world title status in 1999 only for the promotion to close two years later.\n\nAs of April 3, 2020, \"PWI\" recognizes both the WWE Championship and WWE Universal Championship, as well as the AEW World Championship and IWGP Heavyweight Championship.\n\nAccording to the latest \"PWI\" almanac, \"PWI\" also recognizes select world title reigns from May 4, 1905 – January 28, 1946, prior to the formation of the National Wrestling Alliance (NWA) in July 1948.\n\n\"PWI\" has published the list of the top 500 professional wrestlers each year since 1991 in an annual special edition magazine, the \"PWI 500\". \"PWI\" writers choose the position of the wrestler following a designated evaluation period starting from mid-June; anything a wrestler accomplished before or after that period is not considered. They follow a criterion that includes win-loss record, championships won, quality of competition, major feuds, prominence within a wrestler's individual promotion(s) and overall wrestling ability. As of 2018, only Jushin Thunder Liger has appeared in every edition of the \"PWI 500\". In 1993, Miss Texas (Jacqueline Moore) was the first woman to be ranked in the list at No. 249. Since 2008 men and women have their separate lists.\n\n\"PWI\" has published a list of the top female professional wrestlers each year since 2008 in a special edition magazine, the \"Women's 100\" (formerly known as \"Female 50\"). Like the list of male professional wrestlers, \"PWI\" writers choose the position of the wrestler following a designated evaluation period starting from mid-June; anything a wrestler accomplished before or after that period is not considered. In 2018, after ten years of the list including 50 wrestlers, it was expanded to 100, and renamed from \"Female 50\" to \"Women's 100\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1840033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840033", "title": "Sherose Island, Nova Scotia", "text": "Sherose Island, Nova Scotia\n\nSherose Island is a small island and community of the same name located off the South Shore of Nova Scotia, Canada, within the Barrington municipal district of Shelburne County.\n\nThe island is located in Barrington Passage, a small strait in Shelburne County and measures approximately 2 km long and 0.5 km wide. It is connected to mainland Nova Scotia by a short causeway.\n\nThe island was home to Acadian families until the expulsion of April 1756. From the 1960s to the late 1980s it was home to families of Royal Canadian Air Force and later Canadian Forces personnel stationed at CFS Barrington, a Pinetree Line early warning radar station located 27 km away at Baccaro. Families of service personnel were housed in 60 ft by 12 ft mobile trailers, except for the base Commanding Officer, who had a larger house at the end of the causeway. At its peak, the military housing on Sherose Island contained in excess of 100 families.\n\nThe military housing was reduced throughout the 1970s and 1980s as CFS Barrington went into a decline, leaving the concrete pads on which they sat. One can still find concrete pads all over the island where the trailers were once placed. Remains of Acadian cellars may also be seen.\n\nToday, the island has a small civilian population as well as a small wharf and the main municipal recreation facility, the Sherose Island Recreation Centre which includes a curling rink, arena, outdoor pool and ball field. The municipal recreation department is also situated in the facility. Sherose Island is also home to the local Kingdom Hall of Jehovah's Witnesses.\n\n\n<br>\n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "1840034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840034", "title": "Jatiya Gano Front", "text": "Jatiya Gano Front\n\nJatiya Gana Front (National People's Front) is a leftist political group in Bangladesh. JGF split from Workers Party of Bangladesh in 1995. JGF is led by Tipu Biswas.\n\nIn November 2007, JGF joined 10 other leftist political parties in forming the platform \"Gonotantrik Bam Morcha\". The platform presented 15 demands, including that Fakhruddin Ahmed's caretaker government lift the state of emergency and allow political activities nationwide. In May 2010, JGF again joined most other leftist political parties to put forward a unified list of 11 demands in the areas of economics, justice, corruption, and abuse of power.\n"}
{"id": "1840039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840039", "title": "Scythian Neapolis", "text": "Scythian Neapolis\n\nScythian Neapolis () was a settlement that existed from the end of the 3rd century BC until the second half of the 3rd century AD. Anciently, it was considered a town of the Tauric Chersonesus (Crimea). The archeological ruins sit on the outskirts of the present-day Simferopol. This city was the center of the Crimean Scythian tribes, led by Skilurus and Palacus (who were probably buried at the local mausoleum). The town ruled over a small kingdom, covering the lands between the lower Dnieper river and Crimea. In the 3rd and 2nd centuries BC, it was a city \"with a mixed Scythian-Greek population, strong defensive walls and large public buildings constructed using the orders of Greek architecture\". Neapolis was destroyed halfway through the 3rd century AD by the Goths.\n\n"}
{"id": "1840051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840051", "title": "Prince Joachim of Belgium", "text": "Prince Joachim of Belgium\n\nPrince Joachim of Belgium, Archduke of Austria-Este (\"Joachim Karl-Maria Nikolaus Isabelle Marcus d'Aviano\"; born 9 December 1991), is the younger son and third child of Lorenz, Archduke of Austria-Este and Princess Astrid of Belgium.\n\nPrince Joachim was born on 9 December 1991 at the Saint -Luc University Hospital in Woluwe-St-Lambert, Belgium, and he is currently tenth in line to the Belgian throne. He is the first female-line member of the Belgian Royal Family to be born a Prince of Belgium, with succession rights to the throne. His older brother and sister were created Prince and Princess of Belgium in December 1991, several years after their birth.\n\nHe attended Malvern College in Worcestershire, England, in 2010.\n\nHe enlisted in a voluntary army training course at the Centre for Basic Training in Arlon, Belgium, on 16 November 2010. On 29 July 2011, he also finished his education at the Nautical School in Brugge to become an officer in the Belgian Navy.\n\nHe studied for a \"Bachelor of International Economics, Management and Finance\" from September 2011 at Bocconi University in Milan.\n\nIn May 2020, amid the large-scale outbreak of COVID-19, it was officially announced that Prince Joachim had tested positive for the infectious disease, which is caused by a coronavirus called SARS-CoV-2. Prince Joachim broke the lockdown and went to a party in Córdoba, Spain.\n\n"}
{"id": "1840062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840062", "title": "SimsVille", "text": "SimsVille\n\nSimsVille is a cancelled 2001 game by Maxis. \n\nThe game was to offer the user control of a multitude of houses in a neighborhood in a fashion similar to \"The Sims\". The cancellation came as Maxis decided to apply more of its staff to development of \"The Sims\" products. Many aspects of the game, such as a communal \"downtown\" area, were incorporated into the third expansion pack for \"\". Also, several elements of \"SimsVille\", such as obtaining feedback from citizens, were used in Maxis' next city simulation game, \"SimCity 4\". The ability to control many households at once and the fully 3D neighborhood view format was also used in \"The Sims 2\". Finally, the concept of a fully open world without loading screens features in \"The Sims 3\" and \"MySims\".\n\nThe trailer can be seen on the \"SimCity 3000 Unlimited\" installation CD, as well as \"\" CD and on the internet.\n\nIn March 2001, during a reception in San Francisco, California for the release of \"\", several Maxis developers demonstrated \"SimsVille\", which was expected at that time to be released later that year. It received a tepid response in comparison to the \"House Party\" demonstration. One significant difference between the gameplay of \"The Sims\" and \"SimsVille\" was that while in \"The Sims\" a player would \"push\" Sims by giving them commands to follow, in \"SimsVille\" a player could only \"pull\" Sims by placing objects with different degrees of \"attraction\" to the Sims; objects with insufficient attraction would be ignored by Sims. This new gameplay style did not allow as much player control in \"SimsVille\" as in \"The Sims\", which contributed to its poor reception by those in attendance.\n\n"}
{"id": "1840064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840064", "title": "Revolutionary Workers Party of Bangladesh", "text": "Revolutionary Workers Party of Bangladesh\n\nThe Revolutionary Workers Party of Bangladesh (RWPB; ) is a political party in Bangladesh, founded on 14 June 2004 after splitting from the Workers Party of Bangladesh due to disagreements regarding joint actions with the Awami League. The party initially used the name \"Workers Party of Bangladesh\" briefly after its founding. The party president is Khandaker Ali Abbas and the general secretary is Saiful Haque.\n\nMass organisations within the party include the Bangladesh Agricultural Labour Union (BALU), Viplavi Krishak Sanhati (Revolutionary Peasants Union) and Shramjibi Nari Moitreyi (Working Women's Unity). The party publishes the newspaper \"People's Democracy\".\n"}
{"id": "1840072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840072", "title": "Computer rage", "text": "Computer rage\n\nComputer rage refers to negative psychological responses towards a computer due to heightened anger or frustration. Examples of computer rage include cursing or yelling at a computer, slamming or throwing keyboards and mice, and assaulting the computer or monitor with an object or weapon.\n\nIn April 2015, a Colorado man was cited for firing a gun within a residential area when he took his computer into a back alley and shot it eight times with a 9mm pistol. When questioned, he told police that he had become so frustrated with his computer that he had \"reached critical mass,\" and stated that after he had shot his computer, \"the angels sung on high.\" In 2007, a German man threw his computer out the window in the middle of the night, startling his neighbors. German police were sympathetic and did not press charges, stating \"Who hasn't felt like doing that?\" In 2006, the staged surveillance video \"Bad Day\", showing a man assaulting his computer at work, became a viral hit on the Internet, reaching over two million views. Other instances of reported computer rage have ranged from a restaurant owner who threw his laptop into a deep fryer, to an individual who threw his computer out the window, but forgot that the window was closed.\n\nIn 1999, it was speculated that computer rage had become more common than road rage in traffic, but in a 2015 study, it was found that reported rates of anger when using a computer were lower than reported rates of anger while driving. However, reports of anger while driving or using computers were found to be far more common than anger in other situations.\n\nIn a 2013 survey of American adults, 36% of respondents who reported experiencing computer issues, also reported that they had screamed, yelled, cursed, or physically assaulted their computers within the last six months.\n\nIn 2009, a survey was conducted with British computer users about their experiences with computers. This survey found that 54% of respondents reported verbally abusing their computers, and 40% reported that they had become physically violent toward their computers. The survey also found that most users experienced computer rage three to four times a month.\n\nDifferences in types of computer rage have also been found between different geographical regions. For example, one survey found that individuals from London have been found to be five times more likely to physically assault their computers, while those from Yorkshire and Humberside were found to be more likely to yell at their computers. Differences have also been observed for age groups, as younger adults (18–24 years old) have reported more abusive behaviors in the face of computer frustration when compared to older adults (over 35 years old). Individuals with less computer experience in particular have also been reported to experience increased feelings of anger and helplessness when it comes to computers, but other research has argued that it is the self-efficacy beliefs about computers that are predictive of computer frustration, not the amount of computer experience or use.\n\nIn 1999 Professor Robert J. Edelmann, a Chartered Clinical, Forensic and Health Psychologist and a Fellow of the British Psychological Society, was offering a special helpline in the UK for those suffering from technology related anger.\n\nUsers can experience computer anger and frustration for a number of reasons. American adults surveyed in 2013 reported that almost half (46%) of their computer problems were due to malware or computer viruses, followed by software issues (10%) and not enough memory (8%). In another survey, users reported email, word processors, web browsing, operating system crashes, inability to locate features, and program crashes as frequent initiators of computer frustration. These technical issues, paired with tight timelines, poor work progress, and failure to complete a computer task can create heightened computer anger and frustration. When this anger and frustration exceeds a person's control, it can turn into rage.\n\nResearch on emotion has shown that anger is often caused by interruptions of plans and expectations, especially through the violation of social norms. This sense of anger can be magnified when the individual does not understand why they are unable to meet their goal or task at hand or why there was a violation of social norms. Psychologists have argued that this is particularly relevant to computer rage, as computer users interact with computers in a similar manner that they interact with other people (for more information, see The Media Equation). Thus, when computers fail to function in the face of incoming deadlines or an important task to accomplish, users can feel betrayed by the computer in the same way they can feel betrayed by other people. Specifically, when users fail to understand why their computer will not work properly, often in the times they need it to the most, it can invoke a sense of hostility as it is interpreted as a breach of social norms or a personal attack. Consistent with this finding, perceived betrayal by the computer can also elicit other negative emotions. One survey of US adults reported that 10% of users who experience computer issues experienced feeling helplessness, and 4% reported feeling victimized. In the same survey, 7% adults ages 18–34 reported that they had cried over their computer problems within the previous six months.\n\nComputer rage can result in damaged property or physical injuries, as well as psychological harm. Some experts have suggested that venting frustrations on the computer may have some benefits, but other experts disagree. For example, yelling at the computer has been suggested as a way to moderate one's anger to avoid the ill effects of anger suppression, but new research has suggested that yelling can negatively affect health in itself. Alternatively, releasing anger on a computer has been viewed as advantageous as it directs this rage at an object as opposed to another person, and can make individuals feel better afterwards.\n\nIn response to computer issues that invoke frustration, some experts have suggested walking away from the computer for 15 minutes to \"cool off\". Other methods to prevent computer rage can be backing up computer data often, increasing memory of the computer, and even imagining pleasant images, such as petting an animal. Adopting a goal of improving computer knowledge may also be beneficial, as users are less likely to report computer rage when they view the issue as a challenge and not as a setback. If computer rage cannot be avoided, guidelines on how to rage with minimal consequences, such as wearing safety goggles and taking frustration out on older equipment, can be followed to reduce the likelihood of injury and significant property loss.\n\nEmployers of staff who work with computers, often in situations where time is crucial, can take steps to prevent computer rage, such as making sure there is adequate software, and providing employees with anger management strategies. Some computer technician companies have reported that, to reduce computer rage, their technicians are trained on how to work with customers in sensitive psychological states just as much as how to diagnose and fix technical issues.\n\nDesigning computer interfaces to display more emotional support when errors occur, or provide therapy strategies, has also been suggested as a way to mitigate computer anger and rage. The application of affective computing has been shown to effectively mitigate negative emotions connected to computer use. One study found that an interface that sought the user's feelings, provided empathy, and validated reported emotional states significantly reduced negative emotions associated with computer frustration for users. Another study found that when error messages contain positive wording (\"Great that the computer will soon work again\") compared to negative wording (\"This is frustrating\") or a neutral error message, users exhibited more signs of happiness.\n\n"}
{"id": "1840079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840079", "title": "Bedford St Johns railway station", "text": "Bedford St Johns railway station\n\nBedford St Johns is the smaller of two railway stations in Bedford in Bedfordshire, England, on the Marston Vale Line linking and . It is unstaffed and is operated by London Northwestern Railway.\n\nSt Johns was Bedford's first station, on the Oxford to Cambridge line. Its role diminished following the closure of that line, leaving it with a truncated route to Bletchley. British Rail closed the original station on 14 May 1984 and diverted services from Bletchley along a new chord line to Bedford Midland station when a new bay platform was opened.\n\nThe station is served by London Northwestern Railway local services from Bletchley to Bedford via the Marston Vale Line, using Class 230/1 multiple units.\n\nMonday to Saturdays, there is generally an hourly service to Bletchley (westbound) and to Bedford Midland (eastbound) with no Sunday service.\n\nIn common with others on the Marston Vale Line, the station is covered by the Marston Vale Community Rail Partnership, which aims to increase use of the line by involving local people.\n\nThe station was opened in November 1846 by the Bedford Railway as the eastern terminus of its line from Bletchley, the first line to reach the town. The station was on the west side of the A600 London Road (), with the main station buildings on the south side of the line facing the public house. The goods yard was further west nearer the River Great Ouse to receive river traffic. A second connecting line to the goods yard created a triangle which diverted drainage to produce a pond which supplied the station and small two-road locomotive shed.\n\nA second station was opened in Bedford in 1857 on the Midland Railway's to line. The route chosen by the Midland took it across the earlier line at a point near the Bletchley end of the triangle, and a level crossing was built. In March 1875, a Midland passenger train collided with the rear coaches of a Bedford service, killing one passenger and injuring four others. The subsequent enquiry identified a badly-positioned Bedford starter signal as a major cause of the accident. To remedy the problem a 29-lever signal box was opened in 1877 to control new interlocked signals, and block signalling was introduced throughout the Bedford line, which had been extended to Cambridge.\n\nAlthough the Second World War saw the Oxford-Cambridge line handle unprecedented levels of traffic, it suffered from a lack of investment in the post-war years. The 1955 Modernisation Plan proposed improvements to the line, believing it could be a strategic cross-country route for freight across three British Railways regions without having to pass through London. The policy was however to change within a few years, leaving the Bletchley Flyover as a testament of the change of course. The first attempt to close the line came in 1959, but was unsuccessful in the face of local opposition. Hopes for the line thereafter rose when it did not figure in the Beeching Report, but it was nevertheless proposed for closure in 1964, with the Oxford — Bletchley and Bedford — Cambridge routes closing after the last day of service on 30 December 1967.\n\nThe Bletchley - Bedford route, now known as the Marston Vale Line, survived in a downgraded form as freight facilities were withdrawn and the stations became unstaffed halts. The station, now a terminus, came under the authority of then area manager at Bedford Midland. By March 1971 the main station buildings and water tower had been demolished, leaving it as a terminus halt. A third attempt to close the line in 1972 was resisted by the Bedford Rail Users' Association.\n\nIn 1984, a replacement station was opened in the former freight yard, at the north end of the triangle, which enabled services to continue to Bedford Midland. The new connection runs over the route of the Midland's Hitchin line, which closed in 1964. The old station site was abandoned, although some of the furniture, such as the lampposts, was not removed. The site has now been reclaimed by nature.\n\nThe East West Rail Consortium is seeking to reinstate the entire Oxford — Cambridge route, which might include rebuilding the station on its original site, which remains undeveloped.\n"}
{"id": "1840089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840089", "title": "Julia Franck", "text": "Julia Franck\n\nJulia Franck (born 20 February 1970, in East Berlin) is a German writer.\n\nJulia Franck, a twin, is the daughter of the actress Anna Franck and of the television producer Jürgen Sehmisch.\n\nIn 1978 the family moved to West Berlin where they spent nine months in a refugee camp. and later to Schleswig-Holstein. Franck studied German Literature and American Studies at the Free University of Berlin and spent some time in the United States, Mexico and Guatemala. She worked as an editor for Sender Freies Berlin and contributed to various newspapers and magazines. She lives with her children in Berlin. \n\nFranck is the author of five novels, one short story collections, and the editor of a collection of essays. Her three most recent novels, \"Lagerfeuer\", \"Die Mittagsfrau\", and \"Rücken an Rücken\", as well as the collection \"Grenzübergänge\", engage explicitly with twentieth-century German history. \"Lagerfeuer\" is set in the West Berlin refugee camp Berlin-Marienfelde in the 1970s and follows four main characters, one of whom, Nelly Senff, has fled East Berlin with her two young children. \"Rücken an Rücken\" is also set during the years of Germany's division, ending in the early 1960s, and \"Die Mittagsfrau\" spans from World War I to divided Germany of the 1950s.\n\nAlthough Franck has not described herself as a feminist author, feminist scholars have noted her presentation of women's experience of history, power structures, sexuality, and relationships (such as motherhood).\n\nJulia Franck's books have been translated into over 35 languages, including Albanian, Brazilian Portuguese, Bulgarian, Chinese, Danish, Estonian, Finnish, French, Georgian, Greek, English, Hebrew, Italian, Japanese, Korean, Croatian, Lithuanian, Macedonian, Dutch, Norwegian, Polish, Rumanian, Swedish, Serbian, Spanish, Catalan, Galician, Taiwanese, Czech, Turkish, Hungarian and Belarusian\n\nFranck is the granddaughter of sculptor Ingeborg Hunzinger (1915-2009) and a great granddaughter of the artist and illustrator Philipp Franck (1860-1944).\n\n\n\n. Rebecca Solnit. \"Aus der nahen Ferne\". Hoffmann und Campe, Hamburg 2014.\n\nWest, a 2013 German film adaptation of the novel \"Lagerfeuer\" opened in US-American theatres on November 7, 2014.\n\n"}
{"id": "1840098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840098", "title": "Humble pie", "text": "Humble pie\n\nTo eat humble pie, in common usage, is to face humiliation and subsequently apologize for a serious mistake. Humble pie, or umble pie, is also a term for a variety of pastries based on medieval meat pies.\n\nThe expression derives from umble pie, a pie filled with the chopped or minced parts of a beast's 'pluck' – the heart, liver, lungs or 'lights' and kidneys, especially of deer but often other meats. Umble evolved from numble (after the French nomble), meaning 'deer's innards'. \n\nAlthough \"umbles\" and the modern word \"humble\" are etymologically unrelated, each word has appeared with and without the initial \"h\" after the Middle Ages until the 19th century. Since the sound \"h\" is dropped in many dialects, the phrase was rebracketed as \"humble pie\". While \"umble\" is now gone from the language, the phrase remains, carrying the fossilized word as an idiom.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1840106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840106", "title": "Bryan D. White", "text": "Bryan D. White\n\nBryan David White (born 9 February 1936 in Tredegar, Monmouthshire Wales; died 12 May 2017 in Winscombe, Somerset, England) was General Secretary (1978–1984) and Chief Executive Officer of the Loyal Order of Moose in Britain (1984–2001).\n\nWhite was the younger son of George White and he joined the Loyal Order of Moose in Britain in 1966, as the third generation of his family to do so.\n\nHe rose rapidly through its ranks and became the Welsh Area Secretary, the Assistant General Secretary, and in January 1978, became the Order's third general secretary. He became the first Chief Executive Officer in 1984 and he retired in 2001.\n\nBryan died at 08.30 on Friday 12 May 2017 following a long illness aged 81.\n\nHe has received many honours for his leadership from both America and Britain.\n\nBefore joining the British Moose he was active in civic and trade union politics, and he served a term as the mayor of Tredegar.\n"}
{"id": "1840113", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840113", "title": "Eusebius of Dorylaeum", "text": "Eusebius of Dorylaeum\n\nEusebius of Dorylaeum was a 5th-century bishop who spoke out against heretical teachings, especially those of Nestorius and Eutyches, during the period of Christological controversy. He was bishop of Dorylaeum (or Dorylaion) which is located in Phrygia (now Turkey). The name Eusebius may also be found as Eusebios which means “pious” in Greek. The surname “of Dorylaeum” is a result of his appointment to bishop in Dorylaeum.\n\nEusebius is unknown before his oppositions to Nestorius and Anasthasius in the mid-420s. He is described as being a lawyer or other non-clergy (a layman) involved with the law or court in Constantinople. In some references, he is described as a rhetor.\n\nIn the late 420s the newly appointed patriarch of Constantinople, Nestorius, and a presbyter named Anasthasius (both from Antioch) had been preaching on the Greek word \"theotókos\" (“mother of God”) as it is used referring to Mary, mother of Jesus; they were imploring the people that Mary should not be worshiped or referred to as such. Instead, they explained that she should be called \"christotókos\" (“mother of Christ”): a symptom of his larger belief that Christ was born a man, and God was dwelling inside or upon him. This quickly drew attention from church officials who disapproved of such a change in terminology regarding Mary, as well as the Christian public.\n\nDuring one sermon by Nestorius on this topic in AD 428 or 429, Eusebius publicly proclaimed that “the eternal Word had submitted to be born a second time,” getting his fellow listeners at the sermon to drown out Nestorius with sympathetic applause. Soon afterwards, a letter was posted in Constantinople that correlated Nestorius’ teachings with that of Paul of Samosata, an heretical figure from the previous century that had also denied or otherwise challenged the divine nature in Christ. This letter was called the Contestatio and is generally attributed to Eusebius of Dorylaeum. Eusebius may have become a priest soon after this incident.\n\nSoon after Nestorius’ public opposition from Eusebius came the summoning of a council in Ephesus to settle the problem of his teachings, where Nestorius was ultimately deposed. At this time a presbyter in Constantinople named Eutyches was in alliance with Eusebius of Dorylaeum in opposition to Nestorius, but it is unclear whether either played a major role in the proceedings of the council beyond accusation, which was largely directed by Cyril of Alexandria. Nonetheless, Eusebius must have gained some credit for his Contestatio and outspoken opposition to Nestorius, because at some point between 431 and 448 he was made bishop of Dorylaeum.\n\nBy 448 Eutyches had set himself up for a confrontation with orthodoxy by espousing views that Christ was made of heavenly flesh and therefore not fully human, or otherwise denying the full humanity of Christ. These views, though opposite of those of Nestorius, were just as unorthodox.\n\nThe growing animosity between Eutyches and other clergy led to a synod being called by the archbishop Flavian (who had replaced Proclus in 446), and who happened to be out of favor with both Chrysaphius, a powerful minister and godson of Eutyches, and the emperor Theodosius II. This synod, called the Council of Constantinople or sometimes referred to as the “home synod,” was presided over by Flavian in Constantinople.\n\nAt the synod Eusebius of Dorylaeum presented Flavian with a letter, detailing his complaints against Eutyches, as well as making known his willingness to be a witness against him personally. Eusebius relates that he had warned Eutyches several times in private, but he had gone unheeded. Flavian urged that Eutyches should be called to the synod to defend himself, but Eutyches refused to come as he had vowed to remain in his monastery “as though it were a tomb.” Eusebius pressed his accusation, saying that there were enough witnesses at the synod to confirm his accusations and condemn Eutyches, but Flavian repeatedly sent for Eutyches to come and ask forgiveness. Flavian remarked of Eusebius after one particular session: \"You know the zeal of the accuser, fire itself seems cool to him in comparison with pure zeal for religion. God knows! I besought him to desist and yield; as, however, he persisted, what could I do?”\n\nWhen Eutyches finally stood before the council, he refused to revoke his teachings and was deposed as a heretic.\n\nThe year after Eutyches was condemned in Constantinople by Flavian, a council was called by Theodosius II. This council was prompted by an appeal to Theodosius, through Chrysaphius, by Eutyches himself to clear his name, restore his title, and punish his accusers. It would become known as the \"Latrocinium\" (“Robber Council”) because of Pope Leo I’s letter to Pulcheria about events that transpired there.\n\nThe patriarch of Alexandria, Dioscorus, was appointed to preside over the council, which was held in Ephesus. Flavian was the primary defendant at the council, as he was seen as the one who had deposed Eutyches, but Eusebius of Dorylaeum was also called. During the council Dioscorous dominated the proceedings, not allowing a lengthy letter from Pope Leo I (now known as the Tome of Leo) to be read regarding the nature of Christ, nor allowing Eusebius to speak in his defense. He forced bishops under threat of violence to adopt the council’s proceedings and depose Flavian and Eusebius, which they did. Flavian was beaten or somehow injured in the ensuing riot so that he died a short time later, but Eusebius found sanctuary with Pope Leo I through a letter of appeal.\n\nThe events of 449 were opposed by many, not the least of which was Pulcheria, sister to emperor Theodosius II. When the emperor died, Marcian succeeded him and called the Council of Chalcedon in 451 to resolve the injustices done at the Robber Council. Dioscorous was deposed, Eutyches was condemned a second time, and Eusebius of Dorylaeum was reinstated as bishop; Flavian’s name was also cleared in the annulment of the decisions made at the Latrocinium. Eusebius brought a petition against Dioscorous and is recorded as speaking at the council: “…I have been wronged by Dioscorous; the faith has been wronged; Bishop Flavian was murdered. He together with me was unjustly deposed by Dioscorous.”\n\nThe most important outcome of the struggle was a statement of belief known as the Chalcedonian Definition of the faith, which Eusebius of Dorylaeum helped to draft, though his exact significance in that capacity is uncertain.\n\nAfter the Council of Chalcedon nothing further is known about Eusebius of Dorylaeum.\n\n"}
{"id": "1840122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840122", "title": "Beatle Barkers", "text": "Beatle Barkers\n\nBeatle Barkers is a 1983 album released by the \"Woofers & Tweeters Ensemble\" on the Passport Records label. The album consists of dogs barking a parody of popular Beatles songs. The guitar and other instrumental tracks, performed by anonymous backing musicians from Germany, are very similar to the original Beatles recordings, with the animal sounds taking the place of the sung lyrics. In addition to dogs, performances by lambs, parakeets, and a cat are included. All the animal sounds were sampled from real animals except for the howling dogs which were recorded by a dog impersonator. In a review in \"The Boston Phoenix\", the album was praised as a \"real howler\".\n\nThe album was a collaboration between engineer Roy Nicolson and producer Gene Pierson. Nicolson had begun experimenting with animal sounds on an E-mu Emulator I, an early sampler. Pierson jokingly asked him if he could play \"Paperback Writer\" using dogs barking. He did and soon Pierson had commissioned him to create the album, which was made in about two weeks on an 8-track tape machine, with two tracks for the backing tracks and six for the animals. The album was released on Passport Records and marketed by Demtel.\n\nAll songs written by Lennon/McCartney.\n"}
{"id": "1840127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840127", "title": "HMS Acheron", "text": "HMS Acheron\n\nEight vessels of the Royal Navy have been named HMS \"Acheron\" after Acheron, a river of Hades in Greek mythology.\n\n"}
{"id": "1840129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840129", "title": "Solomon Marcus", "text": "Solomon Marcus\n\nSolomon Marcus (; 1 March 1925 – 17 March 2016) was a Romanian mathematician, member of the Mathematical Section of the Romanian Academy (full member since 2001) and emeritus professor of the University of Bucharest's Faculty of Mathematics. His main research was in the fields of mathematical analysis, mathematical and computational linguistics and computer science, but he also published numerous papers on various cultural topics: poetics, linguistics, semiotics, philosophy and history of science and education.\n\nHe was born in Bacău, Romania, to Sima and Alter Marcus, a Jewish family of tailors. From an early age he had to live through dictatorships, war, infringements on free speech and free thinking as well as anti-Semitism. At the age of 16 or 17 he started tutoring younger pupils in order to help his family financially.\n\nHe graduated from Ferdinand I High School in 1944, and completed his studies at the University of Bucharest's Faculty of Science, Department of Mathematics, in 1949. \nHe continued tutoring throughout college and later recounted in an interview that he had to endure hunger during those years and that till the age of 20 he only wore hand-me-downs from his older brothers.\n\nHe obtained his PhD in Mathematics in 1956, with a thesis on the \"Monotonic functions of two variables\", written under the direction of Miron Nicolescu. He was appointed Lecturer in 1955, Associate Professor in 1964, and became a Professor in 1966 (Emeritus in 1991).\n\nMarcus has contributed to the following areas: 1) Mathematical Analysis, Set Theory, Measure and Integration Theory, and Topology; 2) Theoretical Computer Science; 3) Linguistics; 4) Poetics and Theory of Literature; 5) Semiotics;\n6) Cultural Anthropology; 7) History and Philosophy of Science; 8) Education.\n\nMarcus published about 50 books in Romanian, English, French, German, Italian, Spanish, Russian, Greek, Hungarian, Czech, Serbo-Croatian, and about 400 research articles in specialized journals in almost all European countries, in the United States, Canada, South America, Japan, India, and New Zealand among others; he is cited by\nmore than a thousand authors, including mathematicians, computer\nscientists, linguists, literary researchers, semioticians,\nanthropologists and philosophers.\n\nHe is recognised as one of the initiators of mathematical linguistics and of mathematical poetics, and has been a member of the editorial board of tens of international scientific journals covering\nall his domains of interest.\n\nMarcus is featured in \"People and Ideas in Theoretical Computer Science\". and \"The Human Face of Computing\" .\nA collection of his papers in English followed by some interviews and a brief autobiography was published in 2007 as \"Words and Languages Everywhere\".\n\nThe book \"Meetings with Solomon Marcus\" (Spandugino Publishing House, Bucharest, Romania, 2010, 1500 pages), edited by Lavinia Spandonide and Gheorghe Păun for Marcus’ 85th birthday, includes recollections by several hundred people from a large variety of scientific and cultural fields, and from 25 countries. It also contains a longer autobiography.\n\nHe died of cardiac infections at the in Bucharest after a short stay at Elias Hospital in Bucharest.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1840132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840132", "title": "Robert, Archduke of Austria-Este", "text": "Robert, Archduke of Austria-Este\n\nArchduke Robert, Archduke of Austria-Este (8 February 1915 – 7 February 1996), was the second son of Karl I, (beatified) last Emperor of Austria-Hungary, and Princess Zita of Bourbon-Parma.\n\nOn 16 April 1917, at the age of two, his father the Emperor ceded the title of Archduke of Austria-Este in Robert's favor. Archduke Robert was thereby chosen to preserve, in the form of a distinct secundogeniture, the Habsburg-Lorraine representation of the once-sovereign Duchy of Modena which had belonged to the House of Este. He was thus made heir to his assassinated relative Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria, (1863–1914), who had inherited in 1875 the Austria-Este designation and what had been salvaged of the Este fortune when the duchy was annexed to Italy in 1860.\n\nArchduke Robert descended through his Habsburg father from Ercole III d'Este, Duke of Modena, and his mother Zita was a descendant of Maria Beatrice d'Este, heiress of Modena and her husband, Archduke Ferdinand of Austria. Thus the lineage of the last Este dukes, in female descent, remained joined to the Austria-Este legacy. Archduke Robert eventually adopted use for himself and his descendants in male line the surname Austria-Este, and he took also the title \"Duke of Este\", intended henceforth to be borne by the head of the Austria-Este branch of the House of Habsburg-Lorraine.\n\nUpon his death in 1996, the day before his 81st birthday, he was succeeded as head of this line by his son, Archduke Lorenz of Austria-Este, Prince of Belgium (born 1955). Although the marriage of his eldest son to Princess Astrid of Belgium, relegated use of the Austria-Este archdukedom to a secondary title in that realm, the title continues in use elsewhere among his cadet descendants.\n\nArchduke Robert married Princess Margherita of Savoy-Aosta (born 7 April 1930), elder daughter of the late Amadeo, 3rd Duke of Aosta on 28 December 1953 in Bourg-en-Bresse, France (civilly) and 29 December 1953 (religiously), in Brou, France.<br>\nThe couple had five children, all of whom use the designation \"of Austria-Este\":\n"}
{"id": "1840138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840138", "title": "Paul Gogarty", "text": "Paul Gogarty\n\nPaul Nicholas Gogarty (born 20 December 1968) is an Irish Independent politician who has served as a South Dublin County Councillor for Lucan since May 2014. While a member of the Green Party, he served as a Teachta Dála (TD) for the Dublin Mid-West constituency from 2002 to 2011.\n\nHe is also a musical performer. Gogarty contested the 2016 general election as part of the Independent Alliance, but was not elected.\n\nGogarty joined the Green Party in 1989 as a student. He ran unsuccessfully in the 1991 local elections for Fingal County Council. He was first elected at the 1999 local elections for the Lucan local electoral area of South Dublin County Council.\n\nGogarty previously contested the 1992 and 1997 general elections in the Dublin West constituency. He also ran at the 1996 Dublin West by-election caused by the death of Brian Lenihan Snr.\nAt the 2002 general election, he was elected to the Dáil for the new Dublin Mid-West constituency. He was the first Green Party member to be elected in a three-seat constituency. After his election, Gogarty gave up his local council seat, in line with Green Party policy against dual-mandate and was succeeded by the late Fintan McCarthy. At the 2007 general election, he retained his Dáil seat, taking the second seat in the enlarged constituency.\n\nFollowing the Green Party's entry to government in 2007, Gogarty was appointed Chairman of the Oireachtas Committee on Education and Science.\n\nIn 2002, 2003 and again in 2008, Gogarty called for the pay of members of the Oireachtas to be cut. In November 2003, he described the decision to raise TDs pay by 13% during the Celtic Tiger era, compared with 6% for pensioners and social welfare recipients as a \"urination\" on the less well off in society.\n\nOn 3 August 2010, Gogarty wrote to the Clerk of the Seanad asking that newspaper claims alleging that Senator Ivor Callely had supplied phone expenses claims on headed paper belonging to a company which no longer existed be investigated. Gogarty appeared on the RTÉ Joe Duffy radio show discussing this issue. He went to Lucan Garda station the next day and requested an investigation.\n\nIn November 2010, he brought his 18-month-old daughter to a Green Party press conference. The following day, many callers to a radio show criticised his decision. He responded that his regular child minder was not available when the press conference was called.\n\nGogarty's work in protecting educational investment during a period of cutbacks has been widely reported in the media, including a profile in \"The Irish Times\" in November 2010, which claimed that his contribution was recognised by admirers and detractors alike.\n\nOn 11 December 2009, during his contribution to a debate in the Dáil on the Social Welfare bill of the 2010 budget, Gogarty said to Labour Party TD Emmet Stagg: \"With all due respect, in the most unparliamentary language, fuck you Deputy Stagg! Fuck you!\" He immediately apologised to the House for his use of unparliamentary language, which was criticised by Deputy Lucinda Creighton, who demanded his suspension. The incident was referred to a sitting of the Dáil committee on procedure and privileges, when it emerged that \"fuck\" is not included among the list of forbidden words set out in the \"Salient Rulings of the Chair\", the document which regulates the behaviour and conduct of TDs. Gogarty later clarified that the outburst was totally unintentional and not premeditated as some had suggested. He also said that the outburst had to be taken in the context of his contribution during the debate that day as well as a very turbulent and heated debate the previous night.\n\nGogarty lost his seat at the 2011 general election, polling 3.47% of the poll and losing his right to reclaim election expenses.\n\nGogarty withdrew from politics until 2014 after losing his Dáil seat, and let his membership of the Green Party lapse. In early 2014, he decided to run for South Dublin County Council in local elections that June. He considered returning to the Green Party but ultimately ran a \"low key campaign\" as an independent. He was elected on the 11th count to the fourth of eight seats in the Lucan local electoral area.\n\nIn September 2015, Gogarty announced his intention to contest the 2016 general election as part of the Independent Alliance in the Dublin Mid-West constituency. He failed to be elected, receiving 5.9% FPV (first-preference votes). He served as Mayor of South Dublin County Council from 2017 to 2018. He ran in the 2019 Dublin Mid-West by-election, finishing third with 12.7% FPV. He was also an unsuccessful candidate for Dublin Mid-West at the 2020 general election.\n\nIn June 2011, he spent four days filming at the \"Charity ICA Bootcamp\" in County Louth. The show was broadcast on RTÉ One the following August. He raised €5,000 for Pieta House, a suicide prevention and awareness charity. From July to November 2011, Gogarty was involved in season 4 of the RTÉ television series \"Celebrity Bainisteoir\" managing Oughterard's Seamus Ó Máille GAA Club, Galway. He was beaten by Tony Cascarino's team.\n\nIn August 2012, he released his debut single \"Wishing on a Photograph\" under the stage name of His Sweet Surprise. His third single \"Know You All My Life\" reached number one on the 7Digital Download Chart in January 2013. He released a music album on 17 February 2013.\n\n"}
{"id": "1840141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840141", "title": "Human rights in Uganda", "text": "Human rights in Uganda\n\nHuman rights in Uganda relates to the difficulties in the achievement of international rights standards for all citizens. These difficulties centre upon the provision of proper sanitation facilities, internal displacement and development of adequate infrastructure. Nonetheless, Uganda is, as per the Relief Web sponsored Humanitarian Profile – 2012, making considerable developments in this area.\n\nAfter a heavily contested election campaign, President Yoweri Museveni was re-elected into office and his re-election was independently verified by Amnesty International. Despite verification of the election results, Amnesty did express concerns over alleged election violence and freedom of press restrictions.\n\nSince various rebel groups started fighting the government of President Yoweri Museveni, beginning in August 1986, about 2 million Ugandans have been displaced and tens of thousands have been killed. An estimated 67,000 children have been kidnapped by the LRA for use as child soldiers and slaves since 1987.\n\nSigning of a cessation of hostilities agreement in 2006 due to a successful campaign executed by the Uganda Peoples Defence Forces (UPDF) put an end to LRA violence in Uganda.\n\nThe past conflict in the north of the country between the Uganda People's Defence Force (UPDF) and the Lord's Resistance Army (LRA) has decimated the economy, retarded the development of affected areas and led to numerous gross human rights violations. These violations centred upon the poor emergency provision provided to Internally Displaced Persons fleeing their homes to avoid LRA. In the six years since the signing of hostilities agreement many of those displaced persons have returned to their homes and a rehabilitation and redevelopment programme is underway. It has been acknowledged by both the Ugandan Government and the United Nations that this is a work in progress and that considerable improvements must be made. In this regard a rehabilitation programme has been launched\n\nIn October 2009, a bill was tabled in the Ugandan Parliament entitled \"Anti-Homosexuality Bill 2009\" calling for harsher penalties for homosexuals, up to and including the death penalty. As originally drafted and tabled this bill also requires that any citizen who suspects another person of being homosexual, is required to report the homosexual to police, or they too may receive a fine or time in prison. The proposed bill goes so far as to forbid landlords from renting to a known homosexual, and would ban any public discussion of homosexuality.\n\nThe international community was greatly opposed to the introduction of this bill and expressed concerns about the fact that it may become law, indeed U.S. President Barack Obama called it 'odious'. As a result of mounting international pressure the bill never proceeded past committee stage.\n\nOn 7 March 2012 backbench MP David Bahati reintroduced the bill to much controversy. He was however at pains to point out that the provision for death penalty had been decided upon as unnecessary and removed from the bill at committee stage in the 8th parliament. As such, the bill as introduced into the 9th Parliament, had no provision for the death penalty.\n\nThis bill remains highly criticised and controversial. It has again been met with widespread condemnation. The Ugandan government in replying to this condemnation issued a statement citing the fact that the bill was a private members bill and that it did not have the support of the government.\n\nOn 24 February 2014 President Yoweri Museveni signed the '\"Anti Homosexuality Bill\" into law. The following day the tabloid \"Red Pepper\" published a list of 200 allegedly gay men.\n\nFollowing the tightening of the bill several western industrial nations, among others Sweden, the United States and the Netherlands have suspended their aid to Uganda. The World Bank postponed a $90 million loan to Uganda's health system over the law.\n\nIn April 2005, two opposition Member of Parliament were arrested on what are believed to be politically motivated charges. Ronald Reagan Okumu and Michael Nyeko Ocula are from the Forum for Democratic Change (FDC), the movement believed to pose the greatest threat to the reelection of President Yoweri Museveni in 2006.\n\nThe most prominent opposition to President Museveni, Kizza Besigye has run for office three times and been defeated each time. On the occasion of his last defeat (the 2011 elections) Kizza Besigye called for all his FDC party members to boycott the parliament and not take up their seats as elected. Party members of the FDC refused to do this and Kizza Besigye stood down as party leader. Besigye is a prominent political figure and he has identified several incidents whereby his political freedom was violated. Notably in 2011 Besigye was placed under preventative arrest, however he was immediately released as this arrest was deemed unlawful by the Ugandan Courts.\n\nAs in many African countries, government agencies continue to impinge on the LGBT rights in Uganda.\n\nIn late 2002, the independent \"Monitor\" newspaper was temporarily closed by the army and police. Journalists from the paper continued to come under attack in 2004, two of whom were publicly denounced as \"rebel collaborators\" by a spokesman for the UPDF.\n\nIn February 2004, the Supreme Court ruled the offence of \"publication of false news\" to be void and unconstitutional.\n\nIn 2005, Uganda was rated as the 13th most free press of 48 countries in Sub-Saharan Africa In 2010, Uganda was rated the 15th most free press of 48 countries.\n\nOn the 24th day of January 2012 Issac Kasamani, a photo journalist alleged in a newspaper report that he had been shot at by a police officer whilst covering an opposition rally. An independent investigation into this incident was immediately ordered and an independent report completed by a foreign national concluded that no live ammunition was fired on the date in question. Upon release of this report Ugandan Minister Hon. James Baba expressed concern over the standards of reporting surrounding the incident and announced his intention to look closely at media regulation. This is of international concern.\n\nIn November 2012, John Ssegawa, co-director of the critical State of the Nation play reported that Uganda's Media Council had decided to ban further showings. Ssegawa said the theatre production company would continue to stage the production and defy the ban.\n\nAccording to the U.S. Department of Labor, Uganda has made significant advancement in eliminating the worst forms of child labor in 2013. However, underage children continue to engage in strenuous activities mostly in the agricultural sector and in commercial sexual exploitation. The Department's report \"Findings on the Worst Forms of Child Labor\" indicates that 30% of children aged 5 to 14 are working children and that 95% of them work in the agricultural sector, picking coffee and tea, growing rice, herding cattle and fishing among other activities.\nInstances of child labor have also been observed in the mining industry (brick making and charcoal production) and in the services sector. Categorical forms of child labor in Uganda included sexual and military exploitation.\nIn December 2014, the Department issued a \"List of Goods Produced by Child Labor or Forced Labor\" where 10 goods were listed under the country of Uganda. These included bricks, cattle, charcoal, coffee, fish, rice, sugarcane, tea and tobacco.\n\nThe following is a chart of Uganda's ratings since 1972 in the Freedom in the World reports, published annually by Freedom House. (1 is best, 7 is worst)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1840143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840143", "title": "Nepal Communist League", "text": "Nepal Communist League\n\nNepal Communist League () was a communist organisation in Nepal. NCL was led by Shambhuram Shrestha. Shrestha, who had been a central secretariat member of the original Communist Party of Nepal, broke away from Man Mohan Adhikari's faction in the mid-1970s.\n\nDuring the 1990 popular uprising against the monarchy, the group formed part of the radical United National People's Movement.\n\nNCL took part in the Joint People's Agitation Committee, which had called for a general strike on April 6, 1992. Violence erupted in the capital during the strike, and according to the human rights NGO HURON 14 people were killed in police firing.\n\nAhead of the elections to local bodies the year Nepal Communist League formed a front together with the Samyukta Janamorcha Nepal, Nepal Workers Peasants Party, Communist Party of Nepal (Marxist-Leninist-Maoist) and Communist Party of Nepal (15 September 1949).\n\nThe group merged into the Communist Party of Nepal (Unified Marxist-Leninist) during the 1990s.\n"}
{"id": "1840153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840153", "title": "Moose International in Great Britain", "text": "Moose International in Great Britain\n\nThe Moose International in Great Britain Association (formerly known as The Grand Lodge of the Loyal Order of Moose in Great Britain) is a fraternal service organisation. It was run by a \"Grand Council\" from 1926 to 2013, and since then by a \"National Management Committee\". The current National President is Khalil Kattana.\n\nThe first Director-General, James J. Davies, founded the Grand Lodge at his birthplace of Tredegar in Wales. The aims of the organisation are the same as the Loyal Order of Moose in the United States, which are to help the orphaned and the widowed. The organisation runs fundraising programmes for various worthy causes. The British Headquarters of Moose International are in Burnham-on-Sea, Somerset. There are twenty-four chartered lodges active throughout England and Wales.\n\n"}
{"id": "1840155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840155", "title": "Biodistribution", "text": "Biodistribution\n\nBiodistribution is a method of tracking where compounds of interest travel in an experimental animal or human subject. For example, in the development of new compounds for PET (positron emission tomography) scanning, a radioactive isotope is chemically joined with a peptide (subunit of a protein). This particular class of isotopes emits positrons (which are antimatter particles, equal in mass to the electron, but with a positive charge). When ejected from the nucleus, positrons encounter an electron, and undergo annihilation which produces two gamma rays travelling in opposite directions. These gamma rays can be measured, and when compared to a standard, quantified.\n\nFor example, a new compound would be injected intravenously into a group of 16-20 rodents (typically mice or rats). At intervals of 1, 2, 4, and 24 hours, smaller groups (4-5) of the animals are euthanized, then dissected. The organs of interest (usually: blood, liver, spleen, kidney, muscle, fat, adrenals, pancreas, brain, bone, stomach, small intestine, and upper and lower large intestine, etc.) are placed in pre-weighed containers, then into a device that measures gamma radiation. The results give a dynamic view of how the compound moves through the animal.\nA useful compound is one that is used either for the medical imaging of certain body parts or tumors (at low doses of radioactivity) or treating tumors (at high doses of radioactivity).\n\nIn gene therapy, gene delivery vectors, such as viruses, can be imaged according either to their particle biodistribution or their transduction pattern. The former means labeling the viruses with a contrast agent, being visible in some imaging modality, such as MRI or SPECT/PET and latter means visualising the marker gene of gene delivery vector to be visible by the means of immunohistochemical methods, optical imaging or even by PCR. Non-invasive imaging has gained popularity as the imaging equipment has become available for research use from clinics.\n\nFor example, avidin-displaying baculoviruses could be imaged in rat brain by coating them with biotinylated iron particles, rendering them visible in MR imaging. The biodistribution of the iron-virus particles was seen to concentrate on the choroid plexus cells of lateral ventricles.\n"}
{"id": "1840164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840164", "title": "Via Panisperna boys", "text": "Via Panisperna boys\n\nThe Via Panisperna boys (Italian: \"I ragazzi di Via Panisperna\") were a group of young scientists led by Enrico Fermi. In Rome in 1934, they made the famous discovery of slow neutrons which later made possible the nuclear reactor, and then the construction of the first atomic bomb.\n\nThe nickname of the group comes from the address of the Physics Institute, at the University of Rome La Sapienza. The Via Panisperna, a street of Rione Monti in the city center, got its name from a nearby monastery, San Lorenzo in Panisperna.\n\nThe other members of the group were Edoardo Amaldi, Oscar D'Agostino, Ettore Majorana, Bruno Pontecorvo, Franco Rasetti and Emilio Segrè. All of them were physicists, except for D'Agostino who was a chemist.\n\nThe group grew under the supervision of the physicist, minister, senator and director of the Institute of physics Orso Mario Corbino. Corbino recognized the qualities of Enrico Fermi and led the commission who appointed him in 1926 as professor of one of the three first Chairs of Theoretical Physics in Italy. From 1929, Fermi and Corbino dedicated themselves to the transformation of the institute into a modern research centre.\n\nThe first version of their research laboratory was mainly dedicated to atomic and molecular spectroscopy; afterwards they moved towards experimental studies of the atomic nucleus. Research included the bombarding of various substances with neutrons, obtained by irradiating beryllium with alpha particles emitted by radon, which is a strongly radioactive gas that renders possible numerous stable artificial radioactive elements. On the theoretical side, the work of Ettore Majorana and Fermi enabled the understanding of the structure of the atomic nucleus and the forces acting in it, known as the Majorana Forces. In 1933 and 1934 they published the fundamental theory of beta decay.\n\nIn 1938, because of the general climate in Europe, and in particular in Italy the group dispersed and most of its members emigrated. The head of the group, Prof. Fermi, was also forced to emigrate, since the passing of the Fascist racial laws were damaging his wife, who was Jewish, and his academic career. Fermi left fascist Italy with his family for Stockholm to receive the Nobel Prize on 6 December 1938, and from there they reached the U.S. Oscar D'Agostino and Edoardo Amaldi were the only ones who remained in Italy. In the post-war reconstruction of Italian physics, Amaldi contributed significantly to the foundation of CERN.\n\nThe movie director Gianni Amelio has told their story in a TV-movie which became a film, \"I ragazzi di via Panisperna\" (1989).\n\nThe building in Via Panisperna, lying on the Viminale hill, is today included in the complex of the Ministry of the Interior. The edifice is planned to host a centre for research and a museum of physics named after Enrico Fermi.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1840166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840166", "title": "Rich tea", "text": "Rich tea\n\nRich tea is a type of sweet biscuit; the ingredients generally include wheat flour, sugar, vegetable oil and malt extract. Originally called Tea Biscuits, they were developed in the 17th century in Yorkshire, England for the upper classes as a light snack between full-course meals. One of the best-selling biscuits in the British Isles, the biscuit is also popular in Malta and Cyprus. The plain flavour and consistency of rich tea makes them particularly suitable for dunking in tea and coffee.\n\nMcVitie's is the best-known manufacturer in the UK; however, all major supermarkets now sell an own-brand version of the biscuits. A Cadbury's variant of the rich tea is coated in chocolate, similar to a digestive; this is less suitable for dunking.\n\nThey are also sold as a finger variety and, as Rich Tea Creams, a long thin rectangular version with vanilla cream sandwiched between two biscuits (made by Fox's). The Morning Coffee biscuit is rectangular rather than round but tastes very similar to the rich tea.\n\nIn 2011 Prince William chose a groom's cake for his wedding reception made from 1,700 McVitie's rich tea biscuits and 17 kg of chocolate.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1840172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840172", "title": "Guadalcanal Diary (book)", "text": "Guadalcanal Diary (book)\n\nGuadalcanal Diary is a memoir written by war correspondent Richard Tregaskis and originally published by Random House on January 1, 1943. The book recounts the author's time with the United States Marine Corps on Guadalcanal in the early stages of the pivotal months-long battle there starting in 1942.\n\nTregaskis relates combat and conversation in an easily readable vernacular, citing the full name, rank, and hometown of each of the Marines he encountered during the weeks he was on the island.\n\nThe book was well received in the USA upon publication, in particular for its description of the camaraderie amongst the Marines. It was subsequently made required reading for all USMC officer candidates.\n\nIn 1943, the memoir was made into a movie of the same name featuring William Bendix, Richard Conte, Anthony Quinn, and John Archer, marking the movie debut of Richard Jaeckel.\n\n"}
{"id": "1840175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840175", "title": "Yale Precision Marching Band", "text": "Yale Precision Marching Band\n\nThe Yale Precision Marching Band (affectionately known as the YPMB, or more simply The Band, for short) is the official marching band of Yale University. It is a scatter band (what some peers might call a \"scramble band\"), as distinct from university marching bands that emphasize precise movements and geometric field formations. Band members refer to themselves as \"The Members Of...\", which is derived from their introduction at Yale events.\n\nAside from Director Thomas C. Duffy and Business Manager Stephanie Theodos Hubbard, the band is largely student-run.\n\nThe band performs at most Yale football, basketball, and hockey events, and travels with Yale athletic teams across the country. It makes regular appearances in New York's Village Halloween Parade. It has been featured on Good Morning America and in many newspapers.\n\nThe repertoire of the YPMB is constantly evolving, driven by student arrangers and pop music trends. Besides standard types of band instruments, the YPMB includes violins, bagpipes, accordions, keyboards, keytars, musical saws, and air guitars, and in 1973, was the first scatter band to incorporate electric guitars.\n\nThe YPMB's \"Squids\" section creates large cardboard props for halftime shows. The Squids evolved from the \"Appoges\" (after \"appoggiatura\", a grace note) of the 1980s and 1990s, who handled props but also carried their own \"instruments\" (frisbees, stuffed giraffes, lounge chairs). The Squids have also been known to handle more visually stunning aspects of the halftime show, such as flaming sousaphones, blank-loaded firearms, and other non-traditional marching band additions. The appearance at certain games of smoke- and flame-producing pyrotechnics has also been linked to the YPMB Squids, but this has never been successfully confirmed via official channels. Squid alumni have gone on to join The Flaming Lotus Girls, The Cacophony Society, professional pyrotechnic companies, and other groups.\n\nYPMB uniforms consist of white pants and dark blue blazers with the University emblem for football games; signature t-shirts for basketball and volleyball games; and hockey jerseys for hockey, lacrosse, and most other sports.\n\nFor the annual Harvard-Yale game - The Game - the YPMB puts on its largest halftime show of the year, featuring enormous three-dimensional props. Known as \"Überprops\", these typically serve as a means of destroying John Harvard. An Unterprop is the opposite of an Überprop. An Unterprop would be used to represent John Harvard and would be destroyed by the band during the halftime show. An Unterprop was used for the first time in 2001.\n\n\n\nOn October 27, 1973 in a rare political statement, the YPMB reacted to Richard Nixon's \"Saturday Night Massacre\" (wherein he ordered the firing of the special prosecutor assigned to investigate Watergate) by forming a major \"H\" on the field and playing \"10,000 Men of Harvard\". The band paid tribute Harvard Graduate Elliot Richardson who resigned rather than carry out the order to fire Harvard Law professor Archibald Cox. The order was carried out by Yale Law professor Robert Bork.\n\nIn September 1977, at the conclusion of the halftime show at the Yale-Brown game, the YPMB formed a giant diaper on the field. The members of the YPMB dropped their pants \"en masse\" to reveal that all members were wearing diapers. (The band marched \"Down the Field\" with their pants around their ankles.) The announcer stated that the YPMB was the \"Most Pampered Band in the Country\" as they marched off. This became known as one of its more infamous stunts; the band parodied that stunt at the Princeton game in 1983, where the band dropped its pants \"en masse\" again, this time to reveal that all members were wearing sweat pants underneath their white uniform pants.\n\nIn October 1985, six YPMB members were suspended after dropping their pants at halftime during the Yale-Holy Cross game. Only one week earlier, the band was forbidden by West Point officials from performing its halftime show during the Army-Yale game for the script's insinuation that certain government officials were communists. The following season, in the Yale-Army game at New Haven, the YPMB took the unusual step of marching in straight lines for several minutes before breaking into its usual scatter formations. (NYT 10/7/86, B4) Before the band left the field, members removed their blue blazers on the field, spelling out \"USA.\"\n\nIn 1992, before the combined playing of the \"Star-Spangled Banner\", the Harvard marching band attempted to \"X-out\" the Yale Precision Marching Band while the Yale band stood in its traditional Y formation; however, the Yale band caught wind of this plan and, as the Harvard band marched onto the field, shifted its formation into a large H, thus making Harvard X itself out.\n\nIn 1992, the Yale-Fordham halftime featured the marriage of two former band members, Drum Major James Lockman '89 and Props Goddess Rori Myers '92. (\"At Yale, Wedding Band Takes On a New Meaning\", \"New York Times\", October 10, 1992.) During the ceremony, the band formed a three-tiered wedding cake; at each corner of the cake, serving as a candle, was a sousaphone that was on fire. In 2012, they celebrated their 20th anniversary during the pregame show at the Yale-Princeton game.\n\nIn 1993, the Yale-Harvard halftime show included the \"assassination\" of the Energizer Bunny(a bass drum player) -- the band formed a forty-yard bow and arrow, and \"shot\" the arrow at the Bunny. After they missed, the drum major took out a shotgun and blew the Bunny away. He was carried off by band members dressed as dining hall workers.\n\nAfter the September 11 attacks in 2001, the YPMB became a source of minor controversy for performing a halftime show parodying the history of jingoism in American media and culture, including patriotic bowdlerization, and addressing the possibility of conscription. A strong negative reaction from a several audience members, including boos (especially when \"War\" was spelled on the field) and angry letters to administrators and newspapers, led the band to limit the often aggressive political content of its shows through at least the 2002 season. Negative reactions were heightened by the fact the show took place on Yale Parents' Weekend.\n\nYPMB Drum Majors are the political, social, and spiritual leaders of the band. They are usually elected by committee in January, and serve their sentence through the subsequent football season. Most Drum Majors are elected in their junior year, passing the torch to the next generation before they graduate. The current Drum Major is Elizabeth Calabresi, TC '21.\n\n\nThe Band's repertoire includes hundreds of songs arranged by the YPMB Junta, the Band's own syndicate of arranger-transcribers. These dedicated and talented folks manage to add more than 30 pieces to the Band music library every year. The YPMB runs the gamut of genres, from Hip Hop to Techno, Pop to R&B, and, of course, plenty of straight Rock.\n\n"}
{"id": "1840179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840179", "title": "Positive political theory", "text": "Positive political theory\n\nPositive political theory or explanatory political theory is the study of politics using formal methods such as social choice theory, game theory, and statistical analysis. In particular, social choice theoretic methods are often used to describe and (axiomatically) analyze the performance of rules or institutions. The outcomes of the rules or institutions described are then analyzed by game theory, where the individuals/parties/nations involved in a given interaction are modeled as \"rational\" agents playing a game, guided by self-interest. \nBased on this assumption, the outcome of the interactions can be predicted as an equilibrium of the game.\n\nThe founder of the field was William H. Riker. In his book \"The Theory of Political Coalitions\" (1962), he applied the principles of game theory to the study of politics.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1840180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840180", "title": "Kevin Leahy (musician)", "text": "Kevin Leahy (musician)\n\nKevin Leahy (born March 21, 1974) is a drummer/percussionist who has recorded and performed with Shawn Mullins, Billy Pilgrim, BoDeans, Jennifer Nettles, Ellis Paul and other American folk rock artists. He studied classical percussion at the Manhattan School of Music and Indiana University, where he was a student of Kenny Aronoff. While studying at Indiana University, Leahy played in the bands; Flattus Flattus, Fambooey Fambooey, and Hipmotize Hipmotize. He is a member of the band Yonder Orphans.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1840190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840190", "title": "Southern Belle (KCS train)", "text": "Southern Belle (KCS train)\n\nThe Southern Belle was a named passenger train service offered by Kansas City Southern Railway (KCS) from the 1940s through the 1960s, running between Kansas City, Missouri, and New Orleans, Louisiana.\n\nThe service was inaugurated on September 2, 1940. To promote the new train, KCS held a beauty contest to find \"Miss Southern Belle,\" a young woman whose image would be used in advertising materials systemwide. Local competitions were held before the train's launch in all of the cities that the KCS served. The ultimate winner of the competition, Margaret Landry, was the winner of the local competition in Baton Rouge, Louisiana. She was selected as \"Miss Southern Belle\" at the final competition in New Orleans, Louisiana, on August 24, 1940. She briefly became a screen actress, being most famous for her cameo as Teresa Guadalupe in \"The Leopard Man\" of 1943.\n\nThe last run of the \"Southern Belle\" was on November 3, 1969.\n\nJust before inauguration, Pullman-Standard delivered three new lightweight passenger car sets to the KCS for use on the \"Southern Belle\". Each set consisted of a combination baggage-RPO-dormitory (car numbers 64, 65 and 66), a 74-seat coach chair car (cars 234, \"Pittsburg\"; 235, \"Joplin\"; and 236, \"Texarkana\"), and a dining-observation car (car numbers 54, \"Kansas City\"; 55, \"Shreveport\"; and 56, \"New Orleans\").\n\nThe KCS rebuilt five heavyweight Pullman sleepers for use on the \"Southern Belle\", making them look like their lightweight counterparts and increasing the number of double bedrooms in each. Cars \"Siloam Springs\" (formerly \"McBurney\") and \"Sulphur Springs\" (formerly \"McLarty\") were rebuilt in time for the train's inauguration. Initially, Pullman service was only offered between New Orleans and Shreveport, Louisiana. In 1941, car \"Barksdale\" (formerly \"McAllisterville\") was added to the train's operation when Pullman service was extended from Shreveport to Kansas City. The first two rebuilt cars were joined a few months later by rebuilt cars \"State Capital\" (formerly \"McElheran\") and \"Mena\" (formerly \"McKullo\") on the southern leg of the train's schedule.\n\nAfter World War II, the train was re-equipped with some new cars built in 1948 by American Car and Foundry (ACF), and by rebuilding some of the original Pullman-Standard cars. Two of the diner-observation cars were rebuilt into tavern-observation cars; car 54, \"Kansas City\" (renamed to \"Good Cheer\"), and 55, \"Shreveport\" (renamed \"Hospitality\"), remained in \"Southern Belle\" service. The new cars built by ACF equipped two new consists and entered regular service on April 3, 1949. Each of the new consists included:\n\n\nKCS was pro-passenger until the Postal Service terminated mail contracts in 1967. Previous to that, KCS had continued to purchase new baggage/express cars, as well as the last intercity coaches by Pullman-Standard in 1965. Full dining car service was reduced to meals in ex-NYC tavern observation cars which had been modified with lunch counters serving food selections from a reduced menu, which was termed \"cafe car service\" by KCS. This new service was aimed at the now mostly coach travelers who continued to patronize these trains. Spartian interiors, which greatly simplified servicing, included tile floors, vinyl seating, dark green tinted windows which eliminated the need for window shades, and fixed vestibule steps, were among the cost saving features that were found the new 1965 coaches, as well as the older coaches remaining in service, and in all the ex-NYC observation cafe cars. KCS wisely recognized the need to keep costs to a minimum, while continuing to provide a high level of service that was satisfactory to the remaining patrons.\n\nThe previously-mentioned tavern-observation cars rounded out the ends of the two consists. Between 1962 and 1964, these cars were renumbered and the car names were dropped. The train's consists remained relatively unchanged between 1948 and the end of 1968 with Pullman and meal service, although in later years the diner-lounge cars were replaced by the ex-NYC tavern observation cars serving meals and beverages. When Pullman closed its doors on December 31, 1968, KCS elected not to continue sleeping car service and it was discontinued. From January 1, 1969, until November 2, 1969, the train operated with only a baggage car, coaches, and the Ex-NYC observation cars. One of the ex-NYC cars is on display in the town of Jackson, La. Several of the 1965-vintage Pullman-Standard coaches remain in regular service today with the North Carolina DOT \"Piedmont\" passenger train service between Raleigh and Charlotte. \"Good Cheer\" has been preserved by the Gulf Coast Chapter NRHS, which displays the car at the Houston Railroad Museum.\n\nIn May 1995 the new president of the railroad, Michael Haverty, ordered the creation of an executive train to entertain shippers and guests. Under his direction, four former Canadian National locomotives, three EMD FP9As and an F9B, were purchased and painted a very dark green, similar to the paint scheme of the business fleet. Numbered 1-4 and named \"Meridian\", \"Shreveport\", \"Pittsburgh\", and \"Vicksburg\", they were placed into executive service.\n\nIn 2007, KCS changed the paint scheme to the more traditional and \"heritage\" paint scheme. The locomotive #4 was also removed from service, and later renumbered 34 and donated to the Kansas City Union Station Rail Experience. In December the train pulls the Holiday Express, and it makes the rounds to several KCS cities and stations.\n"}
{"id": "1840193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840193", "title": "Philip Wharton, 1st Duke of Wharton", "text": "Philip Wharton, 1st Duke of Wharton\n\nPhilip Wharton, 1st Duke of Wharton (21 December 1698 – 31 May 1731) was a powerful Jacobite politician, was one of the few people in English history, and the first since the 15th century, to have been raised to a Dukedom whilst still a minor and not closely related to the monarch. \n\nHe was the son of Thomas \"Honest Tom\" Wharton, the Whig partisan, and his second wife Lucy Loftus. When Thomas died in 1715, Philip, then 16 years old, succeeded him as 2nd Marquess of Wharton and 2nd Marquess of Malmesbury in the Peerage of Great Britain and 2nd Marquess of Catherlough in the Peerage of Ireland. Just a month after he inherited his titles, he eloped with Martha Holmes, the daughter of Major-General Richard Holmes. Wharton did not get control of his father's extensive estate, for it was put in the care of Philip's mother and Thomas's Whig party friends.\n\nThereafter, young Wharton began to travel. He had been raised with an excellent education and prepared for a life as a public speaker, and Wharton was eloquent and witty. He travelled to France and Switzerland with a severe Calvinist tutor whose authority he resented. He met with James Francis Edward Stuart, the \"Old Pretender\" and son of James II, sometimes known in Europe as the rightful James III, or Prince James, the Prince of Wales (James Francis Edward Stuart; \"The Old Pretender\" or \"The Old Chevalier\"; 10 June 1688 – an orphan in 1701, aged 13–1 January 1766) who created him Jacobite Duke of Northumberland in 1716.\n\nWharton then went to Ireland where, at the age of 18, he entered the Irish House of Lords as Marquess Catherlough. When he was 19 years old he was created Duke of Wharton in 1718 by George I in the King's effort to solidify his support. In 1719, Wharton's wife gave birth to a son named Thomas, but the baby died in a smallpox epidemic the next year. From that point on, Wharton had little to do with his wife.\n\nWharton turned Jacobite when travelling in 1716, or at least nominally Jacobite. He began signing his name \"Philip James Wharton\" to indicate his allegiance. Because he was a powerful speaker, an elegant writer, a wealthy (initially) peer, and a man with a title, the new Hanoverians always sought to gain him as an ally, while the old Jacobites were, at least initially, zealous to keep him on their side.\n\nEven before his losses in the South Sea Bubble stock market crash of 1720, Wharton \nincurred heavy debts. He was so indebted that he sold his Irish estates and used that money to invest in South Sea Company stock. When the Bubble burst, he lost the staggering sum of £120,000 (in an era when a middle class salary in London might be £200 a year). In response, he hired musicians and a hearse and held a public funeral for the South Sea Company.\n\nWharton began to borrow money from Jacobite bankers and accumulated more debts. In 1719 Wharton is credited with founding the original Hellfire Club. (not related to Dashwood's Hell-fire Club), which primarily performed parodies of religious rites. He became Grand Master of the Premier Grand Lodge of England in 1723, and was active in the House of Lords in opposition to Robert Walpole. In 1723, he wrote and spoke in favour of the exoneration of Francis Atterbury, the accused Jacobite bishop, although Atterbury's Jacobitism was superficial. He published \"The True Briton\" as a periodical to oppose the rise of Walpole. He was in favour of the Pretender not for religious or nationalist reasons but, he explained, because he was a true Old Whig like his father, whose principles had been betrayed by Walpole and the new non-native royals.\n\nHis substantive change to Jacobitism occurred in 1725, when Wharton joined Earl Orrery in attacking the Court. He made allies among City politicians, which was valuable to the Jacobites as Jacobitism had previously been associated with Scotland and disaffected country squires. The City had been a Whig stronghold and any erosion in their support would have powerful consequences. Indeed, although Wharton did not benefit from it, much of this would bear fruit in the emergence of the Patriot Whigs a few years later. At the same time, Wharton was £70,000 in debt.\n\nWharton's debts were impossible for him to overcome. He accepted or sought the position as Jacobite ambassador to the Holy Roman Empire in Vienna in 1725, but the Austrians did not like Wharton, whom they did not consider a satisfactory diplomat. His dissipated lifestyle also offended the more severe Austrians. He then went to Rome, where James gave him the Order of the Garter, which Wharton wore publicly. He moved on to Madrid. Wharton's wife died in 1726, and he married Maria Theresa O'Neill O'Beirne, a Maid of Honour to the Queen, only three months later. She was the daughter of Colonel Henry O'Beirne, an Irish officer in the service of Spain, and his wife Henrietta O'Neill. Walpole's spies were informed of Wharton's activities and other Jacobites considered him a dangerous person to be near. Additionally, his behaviour was growing more offensive, mainly with drunkenness, but also with inappropriate actions. At the reception for his wedding, he exposed himself to the wedding party (and bride) to show her \"what she was to have that night in her Gutts\" (cited in Smith). Even Francis Atterbury condemned him.\n\nIn 1728, Wharton began to help Nathaniel Mist with \"Mist's Weekly Journal.\" He wrote the infamous \"Persian Letter\" that caused the Walpole ministry to respond violently with arrests and the destruction of the presses. The power of Wharton's name and eloquence was such that Walpole offered Wharton a pardon and forgiveness of his debts if he were to agree to leave off writing. He also wrote, that year, a powerful piece against the \"corruption\" of Whig causes under Walpole entitled, \"Reasons for Leaving his Native Country.\" Edward Young modelled \"Lorenzo\" in \"Night Thoughts\" on Wharton. Alexander Pope referred to Wharton as \"the scorn and wonder of our days\" – a man \"Too rash for thought, for action too refined\" (\"Epistle to Sir Richard Temple\").\n\nWharton was soon stealing food from acquaintances and seeking money anywhere he could get it. He sold his title back to George I and took a position as a lieutenant colonel in the Jacobite forces in the Spanish army fighting England. He took up arms, therefore, against his native country, and this warranted a charge of treason in 1729. In the siege at Gibraltar in 1727, Wharton sought to prove that he was not a coward, and so he charged at the head of his men and was wounded in the foot.\n\nBefore the treason charge, Wharton fitfully attempted a reconciliation with George. He offered to give Walpole's spies intelligence, but they rejected him as of little value, and he returned to Madrid to live on his army pay alone. When he was insulted by a valet, he caned him and was imprisoned briefly before being banished.\n\nIn 1730, he renounced James and the Jacobite cause. In advanced stages of alcoholism, he and his wife moved to the Royal Cistercian Abbey of Poblet, in Catalonia, where he died 1 June 1731. His widow returned to London, with the aid of James. When Wharton's will was proved in court in 1736, she was able to live comfortably in society in London. Wharton's titles became extinct on his death, other than Baron Wharton which was inherited by his sister Jane Wharton, 7th Baroness Wharton.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1840201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840201", "title": "Pimenta racemosa", "text": "Pimenta racemosa\n\nPimenta racemosa is a species of plant in the myrtle family (Myrtaceae) that is native to the Caribbean region. Common names include West Indian bay tree, bay rum tree, and ciliment. It is used in cooking and an essential oil is distilled to produce a fragrant cologne called bay rum; although bay rum is primarily rum, the concentrated essential oil is toxic and renders the product undrinkable. The tree is 4–12 m tall and the white flowers, about 10 mm wide, become black, oval fruits measuring 7–12 mm. The plants are now grown widely in other tropical areas, including Oceania. The ideal conditions for \"P. racemosa\" are regular irrigation and bright sunshine.\n\n\"Pimenta racemosa\" is widely introduced and can become an invasive weed.\n"}
{"id": "1840202", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840202", "title": "Pennsylvania Navy", "text": "Pennsylvania Navy\n\nThe Pennsylvania Navy (more formally known as the Pennsylvania State Navy or in modern terms the Pennsylvania Naval Militia) served as the naval force of Pennsylvania during the American Revolution and afterward, until the formation of the United States Navy. The navy's vessels served almost exclusively on the Delaware River, and were active (in conjunction with ships of the Continental Navy) in first defending the approaches to the city of Philadelphia during the British campaign that successfully occupied the city in 1777, and then preventing (at least for a time) the Royal Navy from resupplying the occupying army.\n\nThe Naval Militia would also be reactivated in the late 19th to early 20th century. \n\nAs under 10 U.S. Code §7851 naval militias form part of the United States organized militia and therefore are considered as such, the Pennsylvania Navy may be in any point in the future reactivated through either the office of the Governor of Pennsylvania and/or by legislative action committed by the bicameral Pennsylvania General Assembly.\n\nWhen the American Revolutionary War broke out in early 1775, the colony of Pennsylvania's Committee of Safety decided that the colony's capital and seat of the Second Continental Congress, Philadelphia, would need to be protected against the incursions of British naval vessels on the Delaware River. On July 6, 1775 it authorized the purchase and outfitting of ships for that purpose. Two days later it placed its first order for an armed galley. By October thirteen such boats had been built, at a cost of £550 each, and outfitted with a single cannon in the bow, and appointed Thomas Read as commodore of the fleet.\n\nThe first six were launched by July 19, and another six had been launched by the end of August. Their names were: \"Bulldog\", \"Burke\", \"Camden\", \"Congress\", \"Dickinson\", \"Effingham I\", \"Experiment\", \"Franklin\", \"Hancock\", \"Ranger\" and \"Warren\".\n\nAdditionally, 10 fire rafts were built in late 1775 and early 1776 and placed under the command of Captain John Hazelwood; the \"Arnold\" and the \"Putnam\" were built as floating batteries and were manned by Pennsylvania State Marines. In April 1776 the state acquired the \"Montgomery\", which Read served as captain of until he received a Continental Navy commission in October 1776.\n\nBy the end of August 1776, the Pennsylvania State Navy consisted of 768 men manning 27 vessels, with 21 more smaller vessels on order. These were armed with a four-pounder gun in the bow and were classed as guard boats.\n\nThe navy fell under the broad control of the Committee of Safety, which established subcommittees to manage the navy's operations and acquisitions. When the state established a new constitution, with a Supreme Executive Council as its executive, the navy's administration was assigned to the Council of Safety. In March 1777 the council established a naval board, which had full responsibility for the fleet, with the exception of the issuance of officer commissions, which authority the council retained.\n\nOverall naval command of the fleet was at times contentious. Thomas Read served as its first commodore, but he was replaced on January 13, 1776 by Thomas Caldwell, who only served briefly, resigning due to poor health in March. His replacement, Samuel Davidson, was promoted by the committee ahead of other captains, and almost caused a mutiny. As a result, Davidson was first removed from fleet command, and then eventually dismissed from the navy. Fleet command was then given to Thomas Seymour, but Captain Hazelwood objected to serving under the elderly Seymour. When British operations began to threaten Philadelphia in September 1777, the council dismissed Seymour and gave overall fleet command to Hazelwood.\n\nIn September 1778, the state established an admiralty court to adjudicate maritime cases and deal with the distribution of prizes. While no explicit legislation authorizing privateering appears to have been passed, the state did issue more than 400 letters of marque between 1776 and 1782.\n\nThe navy saw action on May 6, 1776, when they engaged the British ships \"Roebuck\" 44 and \"Liverpool\" 28. The British were forced to withdraw to Newcastle, Delaware. The fleet was also active in keeping British troops away from the river's eastern shore when General George Washington retreated across New Jersey following the loss of New York City. Hazelwood was instrumental in preventing German troops from quartering in Burlington, New Jersey, a town sympathetic to the Loyalist cause, by bombarding it when troops were spotted there. This forced their commander, Carl von Donop, to quarter his troops much more widely, and may have contributed to Washington's successful battle at Trenton on December 26, 1776. \n\nThe Pennsylvania State Navy was responsible for defense of the river when Philadelphia was occupied by British General Sir William Howe, and the Royal Navy wanted to resupply Howe's army. At first the combined Pennsylvania and Continental fleet was successful, repulsing one attempt by the British to pass the defenses of Forts Mercer and Mifflin on October 22 and 23, 1777 with the destruction of two British ships. The two forts were taken by land forces in November, and the navy was then forced to withdraw upriver. Unfavorable winds slowed their progress, and four ships (\"Montgomery\", \"Delaware\", \"Arnold\", and \"Putnam\") were burned to prevent their capture.\n\nIn April 1778 most of the fleet was destroyed in advance of expected British operations against it. However, news that the British were going to withdraw from Philadelphia led to its resurrection, and in July Captain Hazelwood reported that the brig \"Convention\" was ready for action. Its existence as a significant force was limited by the arrival of a French fleet on the North American coast, and in August 1778 the state's assembly voted to sell off most of its remaining ships, keeping only the \"Convention\" and a few smaller ships.\n\nThe smaller ships proved inadequate protection for the trade ships of Pennsylvania's merchants. In response to their petitions, the state authorized the construction of the \"General Greene\" in March 1779. Under her captain, James Montgomery, she cruised between New York and the Chesapeake Bay, often in conjunction with Continental Navy ships or privateers, and sent a number of prizes to Philadelphia. According to Montgomery, her crew was virtually unmanageable, and she was sold at the end of the 1779 sailing season. Her unusually low sales price aroused suspicions of collusion in the process.\n\nBy 1782 the activities of the Royal Navy and Loyalist privateers again spurred Philadelphia's merchants to petition for better naval defenses. This resulted in the commissioning of the \"Hyder Ally\", which was outfitted by the merchants, and placed under the command of the Continental Navy's Joshua Barney. After the successful capture of HMS \"General Monk\", Barney took over her command, renaming her \"Washington\". After a trip to the West Indies, she was sold to the Continental Navy. The \"Hyder Ally\" continued to patrol without significant success. By February 1783, with peace appearing to near, most of the state's ships had been sold and its sailors dismissed. On April 10, 1783 the Supreme Executive Council ordered the remaining armed vessels to be disposed of.\n\nIn April 1889, the Pennsylvania Naval Militia was reconstituted as the Naval Force of Pennsylvania - one of many organized state naval militias which were the predecessors to the modern day Naval Reserve. \n\n\"Citations\"\n\nReferences\n\n"}
{"id": "1840214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840214", "title": "Conservative extension", "text": "Conservative extension\n\nIn mathematical logic, a conservative extension is a supertheory of a theory which is often convenient for proving theorems, but proves no new theorems about the language of the original theory. Similarly, a non-conservative extension is a supertheory which is not conservative, and can prove more theorems than the original.\n\nMore formally stated, a theory formula_1 is a (proof theoretic) conservative extension of a theory formula_2 if every theorem of formula_2 is a theorem of formula_1, and any theorem of formula_1 in the language of formula_2 is already a theorem of formula_2.\n\nMore generally, if formula_8 is a set of formulas in the common language of formula_2 and formula_1, then formula_1 is formula_8-conservative over formula_2 if every formula from formula_8 provable in formula_1 is also provable in formula_2.\n\nNote that a conservative extension of a consistent theory is consistent. [If it were not, then by the principle of explosion, every formula in the language of formula_1 would be a theorem of formula_1, so every formula in the language of formula_2 would be a theorem of formula_2, so formula_2 would not be consistent.] Hence, conservative extensions do not bear the risk of introducing new inconsistencies. This can also be seen as a methodology for writing and structuring large theories: start with a theory, formula_22, that is known (or assumed) to be consistent, and successively build conservative extensions formula_2, formula_1, ... of it.\n\nRecently, conservative extensions have been used for defining a notion of module for ontologies: if an ontology is formalized as a logical theory, a subtheory is a module if the whole ontology is a conservative extension of the subtheory.\n\nAn extension which is not conservative may be called a proper extension.\n\n\nWith model-theoretic means, a stronger notion is obtained: an extension formula_1 of a theory formula_2 is model-theoretically conservative if every model of formula_2 can be expanded to a model of formula_1. It is straightforward to see that each model-theoretic conservative extension also is a (proof-theoretic) conservative extension in the above sense. The model theoretic notion has the advantage over the proof theoretic one that it does not depend so much on the language at hand; on the other hand, it is usually harder to establish model theoretic conservativity.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1840217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840217", "title": "Amenemhat I", "text": "Amenemhat I\n\nAmenemhat I (Middle Egyptian: ; /jaˈmaːnumaˌħuːʀiʔ/) also Amenemhet I and the hellenized form Ammenemes, was the first ruler of the Twelfth Dynasty, the dynasty considered to be the golden-age of the Middle Kingdom of Egypt. He ruled from 1991 BC to 1962 BC (1939 BC to 1910 BC).\n\nAmenemhat I was probably the same as the vizier named Amenemhat who led an expedition to Wadi Hammamat under his predecessor Mentuhotep IV, and possibly overthrew him from power. Scholars differ as to whether Mentuhotep IV was killed by Amenemhat I, but there is no independent evidence to suggest this and there may even have been a period of co-regency between their reigns.\n\nAmenemhet I was not of royal lineage, and the composition of some literary works (the \"Prophecy of Neferti\", the \"Instructions of Amenemhat\") and, in architecture, the reversion to the pyramid-style complexes of the 6th dynasty rulers are often considered to have been attempts at legitimizing his rule. Amenemhat I moved the capital from Thebes to Itjtawy and was buried in el-Lisht.\n\nThere's some evidence that the early reign of Amenemhat I was beset with political turmoil, as indicated by the inscriptions of Nehri, a local governor. There were some naval battles where an associate of Amenemhat I by the name of Khnumhotep I was involved, and helped to procure victory. Later, Khnumhotep was appointed as an important local governor at Beni Hasan, and he founded a dynasty of local governors there. His grandson was Khnumhotep III.\n\nIn the inscriptions by Khnumhotep, mention is also made of military campaigns against the Asiatics and the Nubians.\n\nAmenemhat I's name is associated with one of only two \"sebayt\" or ethical \"teachings\" attributed to Egyptian monarchs, entitled the \"Instructions of Amenemhat\", though it is generally thought today that it was composed by a scribe at the behest of the king.\n\nAmenemhat I's Horus name, \"Wehemmesu\", which means renaissance or rebirth, is an allusion to the Old Kingdom period, whose cultural icons and models (such as pyramidal tombs and Old Kingdom artistic motifs) were emulated by the Twelfth Dynasty kings after the end of the First Intermediate Period. The cult of the king was also promoted during this period, which witnessed a steady return to a more centralized government.\n\nThe vizier at the beginning of the reign was Ipi, at the end of the reign, Intefiqer was in charge. Two treasurers can be placed under this king: another Ipi and Rehuerdjersen. Two high stewards, Meketre and Sobeknakht, have also been identified.\n\nHis pyramid was made in the same fashion as 5th and 6th dynasty pyramids by having a rough core clad with a fine mantle of smooth limestone.\n\"The core of the pyramid was made up of small rough blocks of limestone with a loose fill of sand, debris and mudbrick. Perhaps the most remarkable feature is that it included fragments of relief-decorated blocks from Old Kingdom monuments – many from pyramid causeways and temples, including Khufu's. Granite blocks from Khafre's complex went into the lining and blocking of Amenemhat I's descending passage. We can only conclude that they were picked up at Saqqara and Giza and brought to Lisht to be incorporated into the pyramid for their spiritual efficacy\".\nWhen the limestone outer layer was taken, the core slumped. The pyramid and temple have been used as a source of material for lime burners so only a small amount remains today.\nThe Middle Kingdom pyramids were built closer to the Nile and Amenemhet I's burial chamber is now underwater because the River Nile has shifted course. The complex has an inner wall of limestone and an outer wall of mudbrick; members of the Royal family were buried between these two walls. There are a number of mastaba tombs between the walls and 22 burial shafts on the western side of the pyramid.\n\nHis son Senusret I followed in his footsteps, building his pyramid – a closer reflection of the 6th dynasty pyramids than that of Amenemhat I – at Lisht as well, but his grandson, Amenemhat II, broke with this tradition.\n\nTwo literary works dating from the end of the reign give a picture about Amenemhat I's death. The \"Instructions of Amenemhat\" were supposedly counsels that the deceased king gave to his son during a dream. In the passage where he warns Senusret I against too great intimacy with his subjects, he tells the story of his own death as a reinforcement:\n\nThis passage refers to a conspiracy in which Amenemhat was killed by his own guards, when his son and co-regent Senusret I was leading a campaign in Libya. Another account of the following events is given in the \"Story of Sinuhe\", a famous text of Egyptian literature:\n\nAmenemhat I is considered to be the first king of Egypt to have had a coregency with his son, Senusret I. A double dated stela from Abydos and now in the Cairo Museum (CG 20516) is dated to the Year 30 of Amenemhat I and to the Year 10 of Senusret I, which establishes that Senusret was made co-regent in Amenemhat's Year 20.\n\nNaguib Mahfouz, the Nobel Prize-winning Egyptian writer, includes Amenemhat I in one of his stories published in 1941 entitled \"Awdat Sinuhi\". The story appeared in an English translation by Raymond Stock in 2003 as \"The Return of Sinuhe\" in the collection of Mahfouz's short stories entitled \"Voices from the Other World\". The story is based directly on the \"Story of Sinuhe\", although adding details of a lovers' triangle romance involving Amenemhat I and Sinuhe that does not appear in the original. Mahfouz also includes the pharaoh in his account of Egypt's rulers \"Facing the Throne\". In this work, the Nobel laureate has the Ancient Egyptian gods judge the country's rulers from Pharaoh Mena to President Anwar Sadat.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1840220", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840220", "title": "Neutron interferometer", "text": "Neutron interferometer\n\nIn physics, a neutron interferometer is an interferometer capable of diffracting neutrons, allowing the wave-like nature of neutrons, and other related phenomena, to be explored.\n\nInterferometry inherently depends on the wave nature of the object. As pointed out by de Broglie in his PhD thesis, particles, including neutrons, can behave like waves (the so-called wave–particle duality, now explained in the general framework of quantum mechanics). The wave functions of the individual interferometer paths are created and recombined coherently which needs the application of dynamical theory of diffraction. Neutron interferometers are the counterpart of X-ray interferometers and are used to study quantities or benefits related to thermal neutron radiation.\n\nNeutron interferometers are used to determine minute quantum-mechanical effects on the neutron wavefunction, such as studies of the Aharonov–Bohm effect, gravity acting on an elementary particle, the neutron, rotation of the earth acting on a quantum system and they can be applied for neutron phase imaging, and tests of the dynamical theory of diffraction.\n\nLike X-ray interferometers, neutron interferometers are typically made from a single large crystal of silicon, often 10 to 30 or more centimeters in diameter and 20 to 60 cm or more in length. Modern semiconductor technology allows large single-crystal silicon boules to be easily grown. Since the boule is a single crystal, the atoms in the boule are precisely aligned, to within small fractions of a nanometer or an angstrom, over the entire boule. The interferometer is created by removing all but three slices of silicon, held in perfect alignment by a base. (image) Neutrons impinge on the first slice, where, by diffraction from the crystalline lattice, they separate into two beams. At the second slice, they are diffracted again, with two beams continuing on to the third slice. At the third slice, the beams recombine, interfering constructively or destructively, completing the interferometer. Without the precise, angstrom-level alignment of the three slices, the interference results would not be meaningful.\n\nOnly recently, a neutron interferometer for cold and ultracold neutrons was designed and successfully run. Neutron-optical components in this case comprise three gratings. They are artificially holographically produced, i.e., by means of a light-optic two-wave interference setup illuminating a photo-neutron-refractive polymer.\n\n"}
{"id": "1840221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840221", "title": "Bentinck family", "text": "Bentinck family\n\nThe Bentinck family is a prominent family belonging to both Dutch and British nobility. Its members have served in the armed forces and as ambassadors and politicians, including Governor General of India and Prime Minister of the United Kingdom. The family is related to the British Royal Family via Queen Elizabeth The Queen Mother's maternal Cavendish-Bentinck line.\n\nThe name Bentinck is a patronymic variation of the Old Germanic name Bento. The family is originally from the East of the Netherlands, and is regarded as \"Uradel\" noble, or noble from earliest times. The oldest known ancestor is Johan Bentinck, who is mentioned in documents between 1343 and 1386 and owned land near Heerde.\n\nAn important British branch was founded by Hans Willem Bentinck, 1st Earl of Portland who accompanied William Henry, Prince of Orange to England during the Glorious Revolution. The head of this line was initially given the title of Earl of Portland, later Duke of Portland. \n\nIn 1732 the title Graf (Count) Bentinck, of the Holy Roman Empire, was created for William Bentinck, son of the 1st Earl of Portland. A Royal Licence of 1886 was created which allowed the use of this title in England. The Royal Warrant of 27 April 1932 abolished the use of Foreign Titles in the United Kingdom, but extended the special allowance in 13 cases, including the Bentinck countly title \"during the lives of the present holders, their heirs, and their heir's heir, provided such heir's heir is now in existence.\" That exception has now expired. Another branch with the title Count existed in the Netherlands, but died out in the male line. \n\nThe Dutch and British branches of the family continue to exist and belong to both the Dutch nobility and British nobility.\n\nThe counts of Bentinck were sovereign rulers of the Lordship of In- and Kniphausen, a territory of two parts situated in and around what is today the city of Wilhelmshaven. Originally subject to Brussels, the general reorganization of the Holy Empire in 1803 (\"Reichsdeputationshauptschluss\") granted Imperial immediacy until the dissolution of the Empire in 1806. It maintained a precarious independence until 1810, when France annexed it and the whole German North Sea coast in order to enforce the Continental System. At the Congress of Vienna in 1815, the Lordship was denied admittance to the German Confederation in deference to Tsar Alexander I, who wished to see the territory annexed by his cousin the Grand Duke of Oldenburg. Count Bentinck fought for his little state, however, and at the Congress of Aix-la-Chappelle in 1818, the Great Powers agreed that the Count's territory should be granted limited sovereignty. The Frankfurt Convention of July 10, 1819, recognized In- and Kniphausen as sovereign within its own borders, but under the protection of Oldenburg. The Treaty of Berlin on June 8, 1825, finalized the terms. In- and Kniphausen was permitted its own commercial flag, which its vessels bore on the high seas. Nevertheless, there was a long dispute between the Oldenburg and the Bentincks concerning the latter's inheritance. This dispute was not ended until 1854 with a settlement in which the Bentinck family renounced their sovereignty for financial compensation and certain property rights. After that date, the Counts of Bentinck claimed no further sovereignty over In- and Kniphausen. Even before this final settlement, Oldenburg and Prussia had negotiated the Treaty of Jade of 1853, in which Oldenburg agreed to sell 340 hectares of Kniphausen territory to Prussia as a naval station for its North Sea Fleet. This cession became the city of Wilhelmshaven.\n\nThe Dutch estate of the Bentinck family since the 16th century, , is situated between the villages Heeten and Raalte in Overijssel. The area contains 5 square kilometres of forests and cultivated land. Nowadays, the family mainly earns its living by forestry, agriculture and renting holiday houses. The British branch of the family owns Bothal Castle (Bothal Estates) in Northumberland and Welbeck Abbey (Welbeck Estates), the ancestral seat of the Dukes of Portland in Nottinghamshire.\n\n"}
{"id": "1840233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840233", "title": "Makhdoom Yahya Maneri", "text": "Makhdoom Yahya Maneri\n\nMakhdoom Yahiya Maneri (, ) was an Indian Sufi saint of the 13th century. His tomb in courtyard of a mosque, located in Maner, 29 km from Patna, Bihar, India.\n\nHis complete name is Kamaaluddin Yahya Maneri. He was son of Makhdoom Israil son of Imam Mohammad Taj Faquih Hashmi (also called Sheikh Al Hind). His family settled in Maner which was later also called Maner Sharif. He studied Islamic law at Al-Nizamiyya of Baghdad Academy. He was a disciple of Sheikh Shahab al-Din Abu Hafs Umar al-Suhrawardi of Suhrawardiyya Sufi order. His associates include Baha-ud-din Zakariya Multani, Shaykh Saadi Shirazi and Kamal al-Din Isma'il al-'Isfahani and Makhdoom Shahabuddin Pir Jagjot of Balkh who settled in Jaitley near Patna.\n\nHe married one of the daughters of his friend Makhdoom Shahabuddin Pir Jagjot and had four sons and at least one daughter with her.\n\nThe sacred shrine is locally known as \"Bari\" (meaning big) Dargah, while the mausoleum of his descendant, Makhdoom Shah Daulat is known as \"Chhoti\" (small) Dargah.\n\nThis shrine has remained a place of pilgrimage for a long time. Notable visitors include Sikandar Lodi and the Mughal emperor Babar (1520–1530).\n\nHis son Makhdoom Sharfuddin Ahmed Yahya Maneri's books \"Maktoobate sadi\" (hundred letters of century) and \"Maktoobate do sadi\" (two hundred letters of second century) are renowned Persian language collections of spiritual writings. The Persian books on Islamic Theosophy titled \"Maktoobate sadi\" (hundred letters ) and \"Maktoobate do sadi\" (two hundred letters ) were written by his son Sheikh Sharfuddin Ahmed Maneri. The original manuscripts are available in the collection of Khuda Bakhsh Oriental Library at Patna, Bihar India\n\nAmong his descendants, Makhdoom Shah Daulat died in 1608. His mausoleum Chhoti Dargah was built by Ibrahim Khan Kankar, Governor of Bihar, and completed in 1616. It is still known as an excellent example of Mughal architecture. Like several other shrines of Sufi saints, Hazarat Makhdoom Yahya Maneri is revered both by Muslims as well as by Hindus.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1840243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840243", "title": "Sony Pictures Animation", "text": "Sony Pictures Animation\n\nSony Pictures Animation Inc. is an American animation studio owned by Sony Pictures Entertainment through their Motion Picture Group division and founded on May 9, 2002. The studio's films are distributed worldwide by Sony Pictures Releasing under their Columbia Pictures label, while all direct-to-video releases are released by Sony Pictures Home Entertainment.\n\nThe first film produced by Sony Pictures Animation, \"Open Season\", was released on September 29, 2006. Its latest release was \"The Angry Birds Movie 2\" on August 13, 2019, with their next scheduled release set to be \"Connected\" on October 23, 2020.\n\nIn 2001, Sony Pictures considered selling off its visual effects facility Sony Pictures Imageworks. After failing to find a suitable buyer, having been impressed with the CGI sequences of \"Stuart Little 2\" and seeing the box office successes of DreamWorks Animation's \"Shrek\" and Disney/Pixar's \"Monsters, Inc.\", SPI was reconfigured to become an animation studio. \"Astro Boy\", which had been in development at Sony since 1997 as a live-action film, was set to be SPI's first all-CGI film, but never made it to fruition. On May 9, 2002, Sony Pictures Animation was established to develop characters, stories and movies with SPI taking over the digital production while maintaining its visual effects production. Meanwhile, SPI produced two short films, the Academy Award-winning \"The ChubbChubbs!\" and \"Early Bloomer\", as a result of testing its strengths and weaknesses in producing all-CGI animation.\n\nOn its first anniversary on May 9, 2003, Sony Pictures Animation announced a full slate of animated projects in development: \"Open Season\", an adaptation of a Celtic folk ballad \"Tam Lin\", \"Cloudy with a Chance of Meatballs\", \"Surf's Up\", and a feature-length film version of \"The ChubbChubbs!\".\n\nIts first feature film was \"Open Season\", released in September 2006, which became Sony's second-highest-grossing home entertainment film in 2007 and spawned three direct-to-video sequels. Its second feature film, \"Surf's Up\" was released in June 2007, was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Animated Feature, and won two Annie Awards. A motion-captured animated film titled \"Neanderthals\" and written and produced by Jon Favreau, was cancelled sometime in 2008 after four years in development. SPA's first 3D movie since the IMAX 3D release of \"Open Season\", \"Cloudy with a Chance of Meatballs\", was released in September 2009 and was nominated for four Annie Awards, including Best Animated Feature. \"The Smurfs\" (2011) was the studio's first CGI/live-action hybrid. SPA's parent company Sony Pictures had partnered in 2007 with Aardman Animations to finance, co-produce and distribute feature films. Together, they produced two films: \"Arthur Christmas\" (2011), and \"The Pirates! Band of Misfits\" (2012), which was SPA's first stop-motion film. In September 2012, SPA released \"Hotel Transylvania\", which grossed over $350 million worldwide and launched a successful franchise with two sequels and a . Two sequels are released in 2013: \"The Smurfs 2\" and \"Cloudy with a Chance of Meatballs 2\". SPA's latest releases are \"\", an animated superhero film based on the Spider-Man comics and featuring the Miles Morales incarnation of the character, and \"The Angry Birds Movie 2\", a sequel to the 2016 film \"The Angry Birds Movie\" produced by Rovio Animation. SPA has since signed Genndy Tartakovsky to a long-term deal with the studio to develop and direct original films.\n\n, the studio is working on \"Connected\", a robot apocalypse/road trip film written and directed by Michael Rianda and Jeff Rowe while produced by Phil Lord and Christopher Miller (2020), \"Vivo\", and \"Hotel Transylvania 4\" (2021), and a sequel to \"Spider-Man: Into the Spider-Verse\" (2022). It has many other projects in development, including an animated \"Ghostbusters\" spin-off film, two Genndy Tartakovsky projects: an R-rated comedy titled \"Fixed\" and \"Black Knight\". and a Point Grey Pictures film titled \"Bubble\".\n\nOn November 3, 2014, the studio collaborated with Frederator Studios' Cartoon Hangover on \"GO! Cartoons\", an incubator series consisting of 12 short films, with at least one short film being developed into a series. The short films were funded by SPA, with the additional goal of attracting new talent for the studio.\n\nAccording to Kristine Belson, president of SPA, the studio produces films on a 1:1 development-to-production ratio, meaning that the studio puts films into development as much as it places films in production, unlike other animation studios.\n\nThe studio has plans to produce adult animated content for digital platforms.\n\nIn a similar fashion to the Warner Animation Group and Paramount Animation, the studio outsources their films to other animation companies and visual effects studios, with the majority of their films being animated by Sony Pictures Imageworks (its sister company). Some films, such as \"Arthur Christmas, The Pirates! Band of Misfits,\" \"The Angry Birds Movie 2\" and \"Wish Dragon\", were acquired by Sony Pictures Animation to be released under their banner while others, such as \"Goosebumps\" and \"Peter Rabbit\", were made with no involvement from the studio.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1840244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840244", "title": "Argos (dog)", "text": "Argos (dog)\n\nIn Homer's \"Odyssey\", Argos (; ) is Odysseus' faithful dog. \n\nAfter ten years fighting in Troy, followed by ten more years struggling to get home to Ithaca, Odysseus finally arrives at his homeland. In his absence, reckless suitors have taken over his house in hopes of marrying his wife Penelope. In order to secretly re-enter his house to ultimately spring a surprise attack on the suitors, Odysseus disguises himself as a beggar, and only his son Telemachos is told of his true identity. As Odysseus approaches his home, he finds Argos lying neglected on a pile of cow manure, infested with ticks, old and very tired. \n\nThis is a sharp contrast to the dog Odysseus left behind; Argos used to be known for his speed and strength and his superior tracking skills. Unlike everyone else, including Eumaios, a lifelong friend, Argos recognizes Odysseus at once and he has just enough strength to drop his ears and wag his tail but cannot get up to greet his master. Unable to greet his beloved dog, as this would betray who he really was, Odysseus passes by (but not without shedding a tear) and enters his hall, and Argos dies. The simplicity of the relationship between Argos and Odysseus allows their reunion to be immediate and sincere.\n\n"}
{"id": "1840249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840249", "title": "Church of Saint Francis, Kochi", "text": "Church of Saint Francis, Kochi\n\nSaint Francis Church, in Fort Kochi (Fort Cochin), Kochi, originally built in 1503, is one of the oldest European churches in India and has great historical significance as a mute witness to the European colonial struggle in the subcontinent. The Portuguese explorer Vasco da Gama died in Kochi in 1524 when he was on his third visit to India. His body was originally buried in this church, but after fourteen years his remains were removed to Lisbon.\n\nVasco da Gama, who discovered the sea route from Europe to India, landed at Kappad near Kozhikode (Calicut) in 1498. He was followed by Pedro Álvares Cabral and Afonso de Albuquerque. They built Fort Emmanuel at the Fort Kochi Beach with permission from the Raja of Cochin. Within the fort, they built a church with a wooden structure, which was dedicated to St. Bartholomew. The neighbourhood is now known as Fort Kochi.\n\nFrancisco de Almeida, the Portuguese viceroy, was allowed, in 1506, by the Raja of Cochin to reconstruct wooden buildings in stone and masonry. The wooden church was rebuilt, presumably by the Franciscan friars, with bricks and mortar and a tiled roof was erected. In 1516, the new church was completed and it was dedicated to St. Anthony.\n\nThe Franciscans retained control over the church till the Dutch captured Kochi in 1663. While the Portuguese were Roman Catholics, the Dutch were Protestants. They demolished all the churches except this one. They reconditioned it and converted it into a government church.\n\nIn 1795, the British captured Kochi from the Dutch but they allowed the latter to retain the church. In 1804, the Dutch voluntarily handed over the church to the Anglican Communion. It was placed under the Ecclesiastical Department of the Government of India. It is believed that the Anglicans changed the name of the patron saint to St. Francis.\n\nThe Church was declared a protected monument in April 1923 under the Protected Monuments Act of 1904. As a protected monument it is under the Archaeological Survey of India but is owned by the Kochi diocese of Church of South India. It has services on Sundays and commemorative days. On weekdays it is kept open for visitors.\n\nThe Portuguese explorer Vasco da Gama died in Kochi in 1524 on his third visit to India. His body was originally buried in this church, but after fourteen years his remains were removed to Lisbon. The gravestone of Vasco da Gama can still be seen here. It is on the ground at the southern side. The gravestones of other Portuguese are on the northern sidewall and the Dutch on the southern wall. A cenotaph in memory of the residents of Kochi who fell in the World War I was erected in 1920.\n\n\nSt Francis Church;Colonial History of India in Stone\n"}
{"id": "1840254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840254", "title": "Hong Liangji", "text": "Hong Liangji\n\nHong Liangji (, 1746–1809), courtesy names Junzhi () and Zhicun (), was a Chinese scholar, statesman, political theorist, and philosopher. He was most famous for his critical essay to the Jiaqing Emperor, which resulted in his banishment to Yili in Xinjiang. In modern times, he is best remembered for his essay \"Zhi Ping Pian\" (, \"On Governance and Well-being of the Empire\") on population growth and its sociopolitical consequence, in which he raised many of the same issues that were raised by Malthus writing during the same period in England.\n\nHong was born in Changzhou and was relatively slow in his accomplishment of the rank of jinshi, which he finally attained at the age of 44. He held minor government posts up until his criticism of the Jiaqing Emperor in the early nineteenth century which focused on the emperor's failure to weed out corrupt officials like Heshen or reform the bureaucracy that had allowed Heshen to secure power. Although well-intentioned and meant to serve as a call to action, the punishment for his transgression was originally decapitation, and subsequently lessened to banishment. Later, the emperor once more commuted Hong's sentence and pardoned him completely in hopes of ending a drought.\n\nHong was a proponent of the New Text scholarship, and felt that political remonstrance was part of his Confucian duty, as many other philosophers of his time did. He was concerned with such issues as population control, geography, the Chinese classics, and government corruption. He critically re-evaluated the common Chinese assumption that a growing population was the sign of a good government.\n\nHong's time experienced one of the fastest expansions of population in Chinese history. With the promotion of New World crops such as corn, Chinese population tripled from 100 million (1651–1661) to 300 million (1790). The population boom resulted in a series of socioeconomic problems, and caused concerns among the Mandarins. In 1791, Qianlong Emperor expressed his worry to the court officials that the resources might not be able to support the growing population. Two years later, Hong published \"Zhi Ping Pian\", the 26th essay of his anthology \"Opinions\" ().\n\nIn \"Zhi Ping Pian\", Hong points to the tension between the growth of the means of subsistence and the growing population. He writes that the tension would be relieved by disasters, famine, and plagues.\n\nHong points out that government can mediate the problem by policies like adjusting tax, encouraging colonization, and enhancing the social safety net. However, he expresses his concern about the limits of human policy in addressing such an inherent structural dilemma.\n\nHong was a prolific writer, with more than 20 books published, including multiple volumes of essays, prose works and poems. In addition to his philosophical works, Hong was also a noted historian, known for his study of historical geography.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1840259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840259", "title": "Welsh revival", "text": "Welsh revival\n\nThe term Welsh Revival can refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1840270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840270", "title": "Cui bono", "text": "Cui bono\n\nCui bono? (), in English \"to whom is it a benefit?\", is a Latin phrase about identifying crime suspects. It expresses the view that crimes are oftentimes committed to benefit their perpetrators, especially financially. Which party benefits may not be obvious, and there may be a scapegoat.\n\nThe phrase is a double dative construction. It can also be rendered as \"cui prodest?\" (\"whom does it profit?\") and \"ad cuius bonum?\" (\"for whose good?\").\n\nAnother example of Cicero using \"Cui bono\" is in his defence of Roscius Amerino, in the Pro Roscio Amerino, once again invoking Cassius as the source: \"Let that maxim of Cassius apply.\"\n\nAmerican sociologist Peter Blau has used the concept of \"cui bono\" to differentiate organizations by whom has primarily benefited: owners; members; specific others; or the general society.\n\n\nGeneral:\n"}
{"id": "1840272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840272", "title": "Continental Marines", "text": "Continental Marines\n\nThe Continental Marines were the naval infantry force of the American Colonies (and later the United States) during the American Revolutionary War. The Corps was formed by the Continental Congress on November 10, 1775 and was disbanded in 1783. Their mission was multi-purpose, but their most important duty was to serve as onboard security forces, protecting the captain of a ship and his officers. During naval engagements Marine sharpshooters were stationed in the fighting tops of the ships' masts, and were supposed to shoot the opponent's officers, naval gunners, and helmsmen.\n\nIn all, there were 131 Colonial Marine officers and probably no more than 2,000 enlisted Colonial Marines. Though individual Marines were enlisted for the few U.S. Naval vessels, the organization would not be re-created until 1798. Despite the gap between the disbanding of the Continental Marines and the current organization, the Continental Marines' successor, U.S. Marine Corps, marks November 10, 1775 as its inception.\n\nIn accordance with the Continental Marine Act of 1775, Congress decreed: \n\nThese two battalions were initially intended to be drawn from George Washington's army for the planned invasion of Halifax, Nova Scotia, the main British reinforcement and supply point. In reality only one battalion was formed by December, with five companies and a total of about 300 men. Plans to form the second battalion were suspended indefinitely after several British regiments-of-foot and cavalry, supported by 3,000 Hessian mercenaries, landed in Nova Scotia, making the planned amphibious assault impossible. Washington was reluctant to support the Marines, and suggested that they be recruited from New York or Philadelphia instead.\n\nThe Continental Marines' only Commandant was Captain Samuel Nicholas, commissioned on 28 November 1775; and the first Marine barracks were located in Philadelphia. Though legend places its first recruiting post at Tun Tavern, historian Edwin Simmons surmises that it was more likely the , a tavern owned by the Nicholas family. Robert Mullen, whose mother owned Tun Tavern, later received a commission as a captain in June 1776 and likely used it as his recruiting rendezvous.\nFour additional Marine Security Companies were also raised and helped George Washington defend Philadelphia.\n\nMarines were used by the US to carry out amphibious landings and raids during the American Revolution. Marines joined Commodore Esek Hopkins of the Continental Navy's first squadron on its first cruise in the Caribbean. They landed twice in Nassau, in the Bahamas, to capture naval supplies from the British. The first landing, named the Battle of Nassau, led by Captain Samuel Nicholas, consisted of 250 marines and sailors who landed in New Providence and marched to Nassau Town. There, they wrought havoc and seized naval stores of shells, shot, and cannon, but failed to capture any of the desperately needed gunpowder. The second landing, led by a Lieutenant Trevet, landed at night and captured several ships along with the naval stores. Sailing back to Rhode Island, the squadron captured four small prize ships. The squadron finally returned on 8 April 1776, with 7 dead marines and four wounded. Though Hopkins was disgraced for failing to obey orders, Nicholas was promoted to major on 25 June and tasked with raising 4 new companies of Marines for 4 new frigates then under construction.\n\nIn December 1776, the Continental Marines were tasked to join Washington's army at Trenton to slow the progress of British troops southward through New Jersey. Unsure what to do with the Marines, Washington added the Marines to a brigade of Philadelphia militia, also dressed in green. Though they were unable to arrive in time to meaningfully affect the Battle of Trenton, they were able to fight at the Battle of Princeton.\n\nContinental Marines landed and captured Nautilus Island and the Majabagaduce peninsula in the Penobscot Expedition, but withdrew with heavy losses when Commodore Dudley Saltonstall's force failed to capture the nearby fort. A group under Navy Captain James Willing left Pittsburgh, traveled down the Ohio and Mississippi Rivers, captured a ship, and in conjunction with other Continental Marines, brought by ship from the Gulf of Mexico raided British Loyalists on the shore of Lake Ponchartrain. The last official act of the Continental Marines was to escort a stash of silver crowns, on loan from Louis XVI of France, from Boston to Philadelphia to enable the opening of the Bank of North America.\n\nAt the end of the Revolutionary War, both the Continental Navy and Marines were disbanded in April 1783. Although individual marines stayed on for the few U.S. naval vessels left, the last Continental Marine was discharged in September. In all, there were 131 Colonial marine officers and probably no more than 2,000 enlisted Colonial marines. Though individual marines were enlisted for the few U.S. naval vessels, the organization would not be re-created until 1798. Despite the gap between the disbanding of the Continental Marines and the establishment of the actual United States Marine Corps (USMC), the USMC deems November 10, 1775 as its official founding date. This is traditional in marine units and is similar to the practice of the British and Dutch marines.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nOn September 5, 1776, the Naval Committee published the Continental Marines uniform regulations specifying green coats with white facings (lapels, cuffs, and coat lining), with a leather high collar to protect against cutlass slashes and to keep a man's head erect. Its memory is preserved by the moniker \"Leatherneck\", and the high collar on Marine dress uniforms. Though legend attributes the green color to the traditional color of riflemen, Colonial Marines carried muskets. More likely, green cloth was simply plentiful in Philadelphia, and it served to distinguish Marines from the red of the British or the blue of the Continental Army and Navy. Also, Sam Nicholas's hunting club wore green uniforms, hence his recommendation to the committee was for green. Another possible reason for the green coats with white facings is that they were using captured uniforms as many loyalist units such as the Queens Own Loyal Provincial Regiment utilizes the green faced white coats.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1840274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840274", "title": "Violent Crime Crack Unit of Uganda", "text": "Violent Crime Crack Unit of Uganda\n\nThe Violent Crime Crack Unit (VCCU) is a security agency of the government of Uganda. Originally a military unit codenamed \"Operation Wembley\", it was put under police control and renamed, amid charges of human rights abuses.\n\nVCCU has since been renamed and it now called Rapid Response Unit (RRU). It comes under the Police Criminal Investigation Department (CID). It is headed by the Commissioner David Magara. \nHowever, after the renaming, it was given wider roles other than dealing with armed robberies.\nThe new tasks include dealing even in petty crimes.\nHowever, the Unit has been accused by national and international organisations of human rights abuses.\n\nThe current head of the Rapid response unit is \"Hajji\" Asuman Mugenyi who was the commander of Police in Masaka and he has just returned from East Timor on International duties.\n\nOperation Wembley was formed in response to organised crime that had brought the city of Kampala to its knees. A military general was put in charge of the Operation Wembley. This general then radically recruited and trained young assassins. Operation Wembley assassins tracked down and destroyed cells of terrorists and organised criminals operating in Kampala by just \"killing\" them without offering a chance for trial in a criminal court. In contrast this operation brought murders and organised crime in the capital to a halt.\n\nThe Violent Crime Crack Unit of Uganda has been accused of carrying out extrajudicial killings and abuses against civilians.\n"}
{"id": "1840278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840278", "title": "Patricia McKenna", "text": "Patricia McKenna\n\nPatricia McKenna (born 13 March 1957) is an Irish former Independent politician who served as a Member of the European Parliament (MEP) for the Dublin constituency from 1994 to 2004. She is a practicing Barrister having been called to the Bar in 2016.\n\nA native of Castleshane, a small village in County Monaghan. McKenna was formerly a member of the Green Party. She became the first Green Party candidate in Ireland to be elected to the European Parliament. She was elected to the European Parliament at the 1994 election and was re-elected at the 1999 election, but lost her seat at the 2004 election. She acted as one of the Dáil advisers to Ireland's first Green Party Teachta Dála (TD), Roger Garland. In 1997, she called for a boycott of Dunnes Stores when it was reported to be selling clothes produced in a state-run factory in Burma.\n\nA former teacher, she is active in People's Movement which successfully campaigned for the rejection of the Treaty of Lisbon in 2008.\n\nMcKenna has been involved in many campaigns as an MEP and politician. She is perhaps best known for her victory in the Supreme Court in 1995, in which she argued successfully that it was unconstitutional for the Government of Ireland to spend taxpayers money promoting only one side of the argument in referendum campaigns. This led to the setting up of the Referendum Commission.\n\nShe is also well known for her opposition to nuclear power, genetically modified food, and United States-led military action in various parts of the world.\n\nMcKenna also campaigned against the Irish government's plan to join NATO's \"Partnership for Peace\". She is a strong advocate of Irish neutrality and the Shell to Sea campaign, and was widely associated with the Eurosceptic wing of the Green Party.\n\nMcKenna ran as Green Party candidate at the 2007 general election for the Dublin Central constituency, but was not elected. She also strongly opposed the 2007 Programme for Government between the Green Party and Fianna Fáil. After the election, she declared herself a candidate for the leadership of the Green Party, but the position was won by John Gormley. She was elected to the Green Party National Executive in April 2008.\n\nIn August 2008, she appeared in RTÉ's reality show \"Fáilte Towers\". She was the fifth contestant evicted from the show.\n\nIn 2014, she graduated with a degree in Law and Political Science from Trinity College, Dublin. She was called to the Bar in 2016.\n\nIn May 2009, after the Bank bail-outs, McKenna announced her intention to run as an Independent candidate at the 2009 European Parliament election in Dublin - attacking her party colleagues as \"\"nothing but hypocrites\"\" due to their role in the coalition government, and that she would be \"\"embarrassed to stand as their candidate\"\".\n\nReactions by former party colleagues to McKenna's departure from the Green Party were mixed. According to Green Party Senator Déirdre de Búrca, \"The pity about Patricia McKenna's move is that she did not do it at least a year ago and spare herself and her party colleagues a lot of time-wasting and strife. It has been increasingly clear that she does not share the same views on many issues with Green Party members.\"\n\nMcKenna was not elected at the 2009 European Parliament election. She received 17,521 first preference votes (4.3%). She was eliminated at the fifth count, after her former party colleague Déirdre de Búrca, who was eliminated at the third count.\n\nIn June 2010, she attended meetings with a number of former Green Party members to facilitate the formation of a new political party, Fís Nua.\n\nIn 2016, McKenna campaigned with Green Leaves, an EU critical faction of the Green Party of England and Wales whose members include Baroness Jenny Jones, for the United Kingdom to leave the European Union in the run up to its membership referendum. She argued that the EU is unreformable and criticised its neoliberal policies.\n\n"}
{"id": "1840280", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840280", "title": "Joint Anti-Terrorist Task Force of Uganda", "text": "Joint Anti-Terrorist Task Force of Uganda\n\nThe Joint Anti-Terrorist Task Force (JATF) is a security agency of the Government of Uganda. The Museveni administration created the JATF through the Anti-Terrorism Act of 2002.\n\nThe Task Force's main focus is fighting the Lord's Resistance Army, a militant cult operating in northern Uganda which the United States government designated a terrorist organization in 2001. Along with the Internal Security Organization (ISO) and the Chieftaincy of Military Intelligence (CMI), from which the JATF draws many of its members, the JATF has drawn international criticism with claims of torture and illegal detention of suspects – charges which the government has denied.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1840281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840281", "title": "Ted Brown (American football)", "text": "Ted Brown (American football)\n\nThomas Edward \"Ted\" Brown (born February 15, 1957) is a former American college and professional football player who was a running back in the National Football League (NFL) for eight seasons during the late 1970s and 1980s. Brown played college football for North Carolina State University, where he was recognized as an All-American. He was a first-round pick in the 1979 NFL Draft, and played professionally for the NFL's Minnesota Vikings. Brown's son, J. T. is currently a forward with the NHL's Minnesota Wild.\n\nBrown was born in High Point, North Carolina. He attended T. Wingate Andrews High School.\n\nBy the time, Brown graduated from North Carolina State University in 1978, he had set the Atlantic Coast Conference career rushing record with 4,602 yards and the single game rushing record with 251 yards against Penn State in 1977. He was an All-ACC pick for all four years in college and a consensus All-American in 1978.\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki> Includes bowl games.\n\nIn 2013, Brown was inducted into the College Football Hall of Fame.\n\nThe Minnesota Vikings chose Brown in the first round (sixteenth pick overall) of the 1979 NFL Draft, and he played for the Vikings from to .\n\nIn December 1981, Brown accidentally shot himself while handling a loaded revolver. The injury required surgery to remove bullet and wood fragments from his upper thigh. There was a question of whether he would be able continue his career in football.\n\nBrown was inducted into the North Carolina Sports Hall of Fame in 1995.\n\nAfter retiring from football, Brown became a juvenile probation officer in Saint Paul, Minnesota. His son, J. T., is also a professional athlete; he currently plays with the Minnesota Wild of the National Hockey League.\n"}
{"id": "1840285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840285", "title": "Margherita, Archduchess of Austria-Este", "text": "Margherita, Archduchess of Austria-Este\n\nMargherita, Dowager Archduchess of Austria-Este (\"née\" Princess Margherita of Savoy-Aosta; born 7 April 1930) is the first-born child of the late Amedeo, 3rd Duke of Aosta, and Princess Anne d'Orléans.\n\nMargherita's family announced her engagement to Robert, Archduke of Austria-Este on 20 October 1953. They married on 29 December 1953 in Bourg-en-Bresse, Ain, France (civilly) and 29 December 1953 (religiously), in Brou, France. He was the second son of former Emperor Charles I of Austria and Zita of Bourbon-Parma. Robert was 38, and Margherita was 23. As the royal couple arrived for the first ceremony, hundreds of Austrians and Italians stood outside the town hall where the marriage was held. The wedding was also attended by former King Umberto II of Italy and Robert's older brother Otto of Habsburg, the claimant to the Austrian throne. At six feet tall, Margherita was, according to some witnesses, an impressive sight. She wore an ivory gown made out of satin with a long train hung from a diamond tiara.\n\nThe couple took up residence in Paris, where Robert was a bank clerk. They had five children:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1840287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840287", "title": "Uganda Human Rights Commission", "text": "Uganda Human Rights Commission\n\nThe Uganda Human Rights Commission (UHRC) serves to monitor and advance human rights in Uganda. The UHRC is a body established under the 1995 Constitution Article 51 under the Bill of Rights found in Chapter four of the Constitution. It is based on the Paris Principles which are the guidelines for the establishment of a national human rights institution. Its mandate is spelled out in Article 52 of the Constitution.\n\nThe national headquarters of UHRC are located at 4929 Buganda Road, on Nkasero Hill, in Kampala, Uganda's capital and largest city. The geographical coordinates of UHRC headquarters are:0°19'05.0\"N, 32°34'32.0\"E (Latitude:0.318056; Longitude:32.575556).\n\nThe Commission is composed of a Chairperson, and not less than three other persons, appointed by the President with the approval of Parliament. As of 2009, there were seven commissioners. The Chairperson at that time was the late Meddie Kaggwa (1955–2019). Members of the Commission have to be persons of high moral character and proven integrity. They serve for a period of six years and are eligible for re-appointment.\n\nThe late Meddie Ssozi Kaggwa, replaced Margaret Sekaggya in 2009. As of November 2019, the position of Chairman is vacant, following the death of Kaggwa, on 20 November 2019.\n\nThe UHRC is accredited with \"A status\" by the International Co-ordinating Committee of National Human Rights Institutions (ICC), giving it enhanced access to the United Nations human rights system. It is also a member of the Network of African National Human Rights Institutions.\n\n"}
{"id": "1840290", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840290", "title": "Order of Saint Luke", "text": "Order of Saint Luke\n\nThe Order of Saint Luke (OSL) is a religious order begun within the Methodist Church in the United States that is dedicated to sacramental and liturgical scholarship, education, and practice.\n\nAs a Christian religious order, it is a dispersed community of women and men, lay and clergy, from many different denominations, seeking to live the sacramental life. \"Membership in The Order is open to persons of all Christian denominations who seek to live the sacramental life in accordance with our Rule of Life and Service, in community with and acceptance of their brothers and sisters in the Order.\"\n\nThe Order gathers annually in mid-October for several days of worship, fellowship, and administration.\n\nThe Order proclaims itself as Wesleyan and Lukan in its spirituality, Methodist in its origins, sacramental in its practice, and ecumenical in its outlook.\n\nThe Order of St Luke was founded in 1946 in the former Methodist Church and, until 2012, held the status of Affiliate Organization with the Section on Worship of the General Board of Discipleship of the United Methodist Church. The Order was formed under the leadership of the Rev. R. P. Marshall, a former editor of the Christian Advocate. It was dedicated to the cause of liturgical renewal, and led the way in a serious liturgical awakening across the Methodist Church and much of post-war Protestantism.\nA maturing comprehension of liturgical renewal in an ecumenical era has become the guiding vision of members within the Order, just as it has become a dawning concern in the minds of many persons in the Church presently outside the Order. Recent evidence of this emerging vision may be seen in the design of the official worship books of many denominations.\n\nThe additional emphasis of directed spiritual formation, adopted in 1980, sets the direction in which the Order believes itself called.\n\nWhile it will shun doctrinaire positions, the Order is dedicated to the task of breaking down the barriers of historical ignorance, theological sectarianism and liturgical illiteracy in the Church. The Order has no special revelation about the future of the emerging ecumenical consensus, but will do what it can to encourage the people called Christian to look outward and work toward the greater Church which God is surely gathering for Christ' s sake from a broken Christendom.\n\nA major ministry of the Order of Saint Luke is OSL Publications. This ministry specializes in providing printed resources for those who lead worship and scholarly resources for those interested in liturgical matters.\n\nPublications include resources on liturgy, church architecture, prayer, theology, worship, spirituality, sacraments, and music.\n\nOSL publishes three periodicals:\n\nGeneral Officers\n\nAppointed Officers\nThe Order of St. Luke maintains 14 active chapters and associations. While most are geographic, two chapters conduct meeting and business primarily or solely online. Chapters are led by chapter Priors and appointed officers.\n\nNorth America\n\nAsia\n\nNon-Geographic\n\nThe habit of the Order of St. Luke is voluntary. If worn, it includes:\n\nMany members also choose to wear a pectoral cross that bears the OSL logo. Novices are authorized to wear the alb and red cincture, and are given the scapluar upon taking temporary vows.\n\n"}
{"id": "1840294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840294", "title": "Nude mouse", "text": "Nude mouse\n\nA nude mouse is a laboratory mouse from a strain with a genetic mutation that causes a deteriorated or absent thymus, resulting in an inhibited immune system due to a greatly reduced number of T cells. The phenotype (main outward appearance) of the mouse is a lack of body hair, which gives it the \"nude\" nickname. The nude mouse is valuable to research because it can receive many different types of tissue and tumor grafts, as it mounts no rejection response. These xenografts are commonly used in research to test new methods of imaging and treating tumors. The genetic basis of the nude mouse mutation is a disruption of the FOXN1 gene.\n\nThe nomenclature for the nude mouse has changed several times since their discovery. Originally they were described as \"nu\" and this was updated to \"Hfh11nu\" when the mutated gene was identified as a mutation in the HNF-3/forkhead homolog 11 gene. Then in 2000 the gene responsible for the mutation was identified as a member of the Fox gene family and the nomenclature was updated to \"Foxn1nu\".\n\nNude mice were first discovered in 1962 by Dr. Norman R. Grist at Ruchill Hospital's Brownlee virology laboratory in Glasgow. Because they lack a thymus, nude mice cannot generate mature T lymphocytes. Therefore they are unable to mount many types of adaptive immune responses, including:\n\n\nBecause of the above features, nude mice have served in the laboratory to gain insights into the immune system, leukemia, solid tumors, AIDS and other forms of immune deficiency as well as leprosy.\nMoreover, the absence of functioning T cells prevents nude mice from rejecting not only allografts, but they cannot even reject xenografts; that is, grafts of tissue from another species.\n\nMost strains of nude mice are slightly \"leaky\" and do have a few T cells, especially as they age. For this reason, nude mice are less popular in research today, since knockout mice with more complete defects in the immune system have been constructed (e.g. RAG1 and RAG2 knockout mice).\n\nNude mice have a spontaneous deletion in the FOXN1 gene. (Humans with mutations in FOXN1 also are athymic and immune deficient.) Mice with a targeted deletion in the FOXN1 (\"knockout\" mice) also show the \"nude\" phenotype. Since \"nude\" females have underdeveloped mammary glands and are unable to effectively nurse their young, nude males are bred with heterozygous females.\n\nThe life span of nude mice is normally 6 months to a year. In controlled, germ free environments and with antibiotic treatments found in many laboratories that routinely use nude mice, they can live almost as long as normal mice (18 months to two years).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1840296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840296", "title": "Paradesi Synagogue", "text": "Paradesi Synagogue\n\nThe Paradesi Synagogue is the oldest active synagogue in the Commonwealth of Nations, located in Kochi, Kerala, in South India.(The first synagogue in India was built in the 4th century in Kodungallur (Cranganore) when the Jews had a merchantile role in the South Indian region (now called Kerala) along the Malabar coast. When the community moved to Kochi in the 14th century, it built a new synagogue there.) Constructed in 1568, it is one of seven synagogues of the Malabar Yehudan or Yehudan Mappila people or \"Cochin Jewish\" community in the Kingdom of Cochin. \"Paradesi\" is a word used in several Indian languages, and the literal meaning of the term is \"foreigners\", applied to the synagogue because it was built by Sephardic or Portuguese-speaking Jews, some of them from families exiled in Aleppo, Safed and other West Asian localities. It is also referred to as the Cochin Jewish Synagogue or the Mattancherry Synagogue.\n\nThe synagogue is located in the quarter of Old Cochin known as Jew Town, and is the only one of the seven synagogues in the area still in use. The complex has four buildings. It was built adjacent to the Mattancherry Palace temple on the land given to the \"Malabari Yehuden\" or \" Yehuden Mappila\" community by the Raja of Kochi, Rama Varma. The Mattancherry Palace temple and the Mattancherry synagogue share a common wall.\n\nThe Malabari Jews or Yehudan Mappila (also known as Cochin Jews) formed a prosperous trading community of Kerala, and they controlled a major portion of worldwide spice trade. In 1568, Paradesi Jews constructed the Paradesi Synagogue adjacent to Mattancherry Palace, Cochin, now part of the Indian city of Ernakulam, on land given to them by the Raja of Kochi. The first synagogue in India was built in the 4th century in Kodungallur (Cranganore) when the Jews had a merchantile role in the South Indian region (now called Kerala) along the Malabar coast. When the community moved to Kochi in the 14th century, it built a new synagogue there.\n\nThe Malabari Jews' or the Yehudan Mappila first synagogue in Cochin was destroyed in the 16th century during the Portuguese persecution of the Jews and Nasrani or Suriyani Mappila or Syriac (Aramaic) Mappila people. The second, built under the protection of the Raja, in Mattancherry, in 1558, during the Portuguese rule of Cochin, is the present synagogue, which is still in use for worship and can attract a \"minyan.\" It is called \"Paradesi\" synagogue because it was built by Spanish speaking Jews (Paradesi Jews); this contributed to the informal name: \"paradesi\" synagogue or \"foreign\" synagogue. In addition, a new Jewish group had immigrated to Kochi, Sephardim from the Iberian Peninsula. They and the Malabari Jews or Yehudan Mappila shared many aspects of their religion, and the newcomers learned the Judeo-Malayalam dialect, but the Sephardim also retained their own culture and Spanish language at least for three centuries. By 1660 the Dutch ruled the Kochi area, calling it Dutch Malabar. In later years, the Paradesi Synagogue was used primarily by the Sephardim (who were also referred to as Paradesi) and their descendants, and later European exiled Jews.\n\nThe Parade\"si Synagogue had three classes of members: \n\nIn 1968, the 400th anniversary of the synagogue was celebrated in a ceremony attended by Indira Gandhi, the Indian Prime Minister.\n\nAs is customary for Orthodox Jewish or Yehudan Mappila synagogues, the Paradesi Synagogue has separate seating sections for men and women.\n\nToday the Paradesi Synagogue is the only functioning synagogue in Kochi with a minyan (though this minyan must be formed with Jews from outside Kochi, as the number who still reside there is not sufficient). In conformity with the Hindu, St Thomas Christian or Syrian Mappila and Muslim Mappila traditions of Kerala, the worshippers are required to enter the \"Paradesi Synagogue\" barefoot. Other facets which are unique to the Cochin Jewish community, and which are results of Hindu influence, include special colours of clothing for each festival, circumcision ceremonies performed at public worship, and distribution of grape-soaked myrtle leaves on certain festivals. In addition, the current Rabbi at the Paradesi synagogue placed by Midrash Sephardi is Rabbi Yonaton Francis Goldschmidt.\n\nThe synagogue is open for a fee to visitors as a historic attraction. The ticket-seller, Yaheh Hallegua, is the last female Paradesi Jew of child-bearing age. The synagogue is closed on Fridays, Saturdays and Sundays and also on Jewish holidays. As of April 2016, only 5 Jews live in Fort Kochi.. Timing to visit the Mattanherry Synagogue is from 5:00 a.m to 1:00 p.m and then it again opens from 5:00 p.m to 7:00 p.m . There is a strict dress code for both Men and Women.\nMen have to wear full shirts and trousers and Women have to wear skirts below knee length .\n\nThe Paradesi Synagogue has the Scrolls of the Law, several gold crowns received as gifts, many Belgian glass chandeliers, and a brass-railed pulpit. It houses the 10th-century copper plates of privileges given to Joseph Rabban, the earliest known Cochin Jew. These two plates were inscribed in Tamil by the ruler of the Malabar Coast. The floor of the synagogue is composed of hundreds of Chinese, 18th-century, hand-painted porcelain tiles, each of which is unique. A hand-knotted oriental rug was a gift from Haile Selassie, the last Ethiopian emperor. The synagogue has an 18th-century clock tower, which, along with other parts of the complex, was restored between 1998 and 1999 under the direction of the World Monuments Fund.\nA tablet from the 1344 synagogue in Kochangadi in Kochi was installed on the outer wall of the Paradesi synagogue. The inscription states that the structure was built in 5105 (in the Hebrew Calendar) as \"an abode for the spirit of God.\"\n\nThe Thekkumbhagom synagogue, located on Jews Street in the Ernakulam area of Cochin, was built in 1580 and renovated in 1939.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1840306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840306", "title": "Genetic fuzzy systems", "text": "Genetic fuzzy systems\n\nGenetic fuzzy systems are fuzzy systems constructed by using genetic algorithms or genetic programming, which mimic the process of natural evolution, to identify its structure and parameter.\n\nWhen it comes to automatically identifying and building a fuzzy system, given the high degree of nonlinearity of the output, traditional linear optimization tools have several limitations. Therefore, in the framework of soft computing, genetic algorithms (GAs) and genetic programming (GP) methods have been used successfully to identify structure and parameters of fuzzy systems.\n\nFuzzy systems are fundamental methodologies to represent and process linguistic information, with mechanisms to deal with uncertainty and imprecision. For instance, the task of modeling a driver parking a car involves greater difficulty in writing down a concise mathematical model as the description becomes more detailed. However, the level of difficulty is not so much using simple linguistic rules, which are themselves fuzzy. With such remarkable attributes, fuzzy systems have been widely and successfully applied to control, classification and modeling problems (Mamdani, 1974) (Klir and Yuan, 1995) (Pedrycz and Gomide, 1998).\n\nAlthough simplistic in its design, the identification of a fuzzy system is a rather complex task that comprises the identification\nof (a) the input and output variables, (b) the rule base (knowledge base), (c) the membership functions and (d) the mapping parameters.\n\nUsually the rule base consists of several IF-THEN rules, linking input(s) and output(s).\nA simple rule of a fuzzy controller could be:\n\nIF (TEMPERATURE = HOT) THEN (COOLING = HIGH)\n\nThe numerical impact/meaning of this rule depends on how the membership functions of HOT and HIGH are shaped and defined.\n\nThe construction and identification of a fuzzy system can be divided into (a) the structure and (b) the parameter identification of a fuzzy system.\n\nThe structure of a fuzzy system is expressed by the input and output variables and the rule base, while the parameters of a fuzzy system are the rule parameters (defining the membership functions, the aggregation operator and the implication function) and the mapping parameters related to the mapping of a crisp set to a fuzzy set, and vice versa. (Bastian, 2000).\n\nMuch work has been done to develop or adapt methodologies that are capable of automatically identifying a fuzzy system from numerical data. Particularly in the framework of soft computing, significant methodologies have been proposed with the objective of building fuzzy systems by means of genetic algorithms (GAs) or genetic programming (GP).\n\nGiven the high degree of nonlinearity of the output of a fuzzy system, traditional linear optimization tools do have their limitations. \nGenetic algorithms have demonstrated to be a robust and very powerful tool to perform tasks such as the generation of fuzzy rule base, optimization of fuzzy rule bases, generation of membership functions, and tuning of membership functions (Cordón et al., 2001a). All these tasks can be considered as optimization or search processes within large solution spaces (Bastian and Hayashi, 1995) (Yuan and Zhuang, 1996) (Cordón et al., 2001b).\n\nWhile genetic algorithms are very powerful tools to identify the fuzzy membership functions of a pre-defined rule base, they have their limitation especially when it also comes to identify the input and output variables of a fuzzy system from a given set of data. Genetic programming has been used to identify the input variables, the rule base as well as the involved membership functions of a fuzzy model (Bastian, 2000)\n\nIn the last decade multi-objective optimization of fuzzy rule based systems has attracted wide interest within the research community and practitioners. It is based on the use of stochastic algorithms for Multi-objective optimization to search for the Pareto efficiency in a multiple objectives scenario. For instance, the objectives to simultaneously optimize can be accuracy and complexity, or accuracy and interpretability. A recent review of the field is provided in the work of Fazzolari et al. (2013). In addition, [1] provides an up-to-date and continuously growing list of references on the subject.\n\n"}
{"id": "1840310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840310", "title": "Uganda National Police", "text": "Uganda National Police\n\nThe Uganda National Police is the national police force of Uganda. The head of the force is called the Inspector General of Police (IGP). The current IGP is Martin Okoth Ochola. Ochola replaced former IGP, General Edward Kale Kayihura in March 2018.\n\nUp until April 2014, the official name of the government agency was Uganda Police Force. On that day, the IGP publicly announced the name change.\n\nIn 2015, the police agency took delivery of three new aircraft, including one PZL W-3A Sokół helicopter; one AgustaWestland AW109 GrandNew helicopter; and one fixed wing aircraft.\n\n\nBelow are some notable people who have served in the Uganda National Police.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1840312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840312", "title": "Parasnath railway station", "text": "Parasnath railway station\n\nParasnath railway station is on the Asansol-Gaya section of the Grand Chord and serves the town of Isri in Giridih district in the Indian state of Jharkhand. The Parasnath Hill or Shikharji, located nearby, with a height of is the highest mountain in the state of Jharkhand.\n\nThe word Parasnath comes from the 23rd Tirthankara of Jainism, Parshva. Jains refer to the Parasnath Hill as Shikharji, and it is one of the two most prominent Jain pilgrimage centers, the other being Shetrunjaya, in Gujarat. According to Jain belief, twenty of the twenty-four Tirthankaras (teachers of the Jains) attained Moksha (Nirvana) from Shikharji.\n\nThe Grand Chord was opened in 1906.\n\nThe Gomoh-Koderma sector was electrified in 1961-62.\n\nIt is a holy place to visit with innumerable temples, shrines and meditation halls in the midst of natural scenery and wildlife.\n\nThere are two recognized routes to Parasnath Hill. The summit of Parasnath Hill can be reached either from the southern or the northern side.\n\nThe southern approach is from Isri Bazaar or Nimiaghat, to the top. It is motorable for about , the rest being a climb of .\n\nThe northern approach is a route from Madhuban on the Dumri-Giridih road. Madhuban is about from Giridih and about from Parasnath rail station/ Isri Bazaar/ Dumri, all on Grand Trunk Road (NH 2). Buses ply along this route from Dumri to Giridih and stop at Madhuban village. Hired cars or taxis are available at Isri Bazar, just outside the rail station. There are a number of Jain temples at Madhuban. There is a metalled trek route of to the summit, a major part of which is motorable.\n\nBoth the Shwetambaras and Digambaras have established Dharamshalas or Ashrams here to accommodate the pilgrims to this the first most holy place for travelers from all over the world. The main hill belongs to the Digambara.\n\nA new rail line connecting Giridih Station with Parasnath via Madhuban is one of the new surveys to be taken up during 2012-13.\n\n"}
{"id": "1840321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840321", "title": "Ngong Ping 360", "text": "Ngong Ping 360\n\nNgong Ping 360 () is a bicable gondola lift on Lantau Island in Hong Kong. Intended to improve tourism to the area, the aerial lift was previously known as Tung Chung Cable Car Project before acquiring the Ngong Ping 360 brand in April 2005. It consists of the Ngong Ping Cable Car, formerly known as the Ngong Ping 360 Skyrail, and the Ngong Ping Village, a retail and entertainment centre adjacent to the cable car's upper station. Ngong Ping 360 connects Tung Chung, on the north coast of Lantau and itself linked to central Hong Kong by the Tung Chung Line, with the Ngong Ping area in the hills above. This is home to the Po Lin Monastery and the Tian Tan Buddha, both already significant tourist attractions in their own right. Before Ngong Ping 360's opening, the only access was via a mountain road and bus service.\n\nNgong Ping 360 is owned by the MTR Corporation, the operator of Hong Kong's rail system. It was built by Leitner Ropeways and was originally operated by Skyrail-ITM. Skyrail-ITM was removed from the project after an investigation following an incident in June 2007. It is now operated by a directly owned subsidiary of the MTR Corporation.\n\nFollowing a feasibility study, the Hong Kong government issued an invitation in 2000 for detailed proposals and tender for a 30-year franchise on a Build-Operate-Transfer basis for the global project of operation, management and maintenance of a cable car system linking Tung Chung and Ngong Ping on Lantau Island. The Tourism Commission declared the objective of the project was to increase the range of attractions to visitors to enhance Hong Kong's position as a leading tourist destination in the region. Target timing was to identify a successful proponent by the end of 2001 and to commence operation of the cable car system before early 2006.\n\nConstruction of the cable car project started at the beginning of 2004. The system was originally scheduled to open on 23 January 2006, but on 17 June 2006, during the trial-run with the maximum of 109 gondola cabins on the cables, a cabin arriving at Ngong Ping station had a slight collision with a late departing cabin. The entire system was automatically halted by the safety system, leaving 500 volunteers trapped for two hours. As a result, Skyrail-ITM postponed the opening day to fix the technical problems, tests and emergency staff drills.\n\nAfter two months of improvement works and repair for the damages made by Typhoon Prapiroon in August 2006, Ngong Ping 360 resumed a trial-run of 7 days from 30 August 2006. The project director at MTR Corp and senior executives of Skyrail were at the soft opening of the facility on 18 September. In keeping with feng shui traditions, Skyrail-ITM sold just 1,688 tickets for the maiden day's run on 18 September at HK$88 each, the numbers being considered lucky. Henry Tang officiated at the grand opening of the attraction on 9 November 2006.\n\nAfter the commencement of service, system failures still occurred occasionally. Between its opening on 18 September and 27 October, eight service suspensions were recorded, prompting a legislative panel to challenge the operator's continued operation.\n\nA serious incident occurred on 11 June 2007, during a brake test which was part of the annual examination of the cable, when an empty cabin fell off the cable and crashed into a hilly area near Chek Lap Kok South Road. Despite the fact that there were no injuries caused, an investigation resulted in the operating company and its CEO being charged with criminal negligence related to the incident, although the CEO's case was later delayed, and the charges against him eventually dropped altogether. Skyrail-ITM was removed as operator, fined HK$5,000, and the MTR Corporation took over operational responsibility. The line remained out of service until 23 December when it underwent one week of trial run involving 40,000 visitors riding for free. It reopened officially on 31 December 2007.\n\nIn April 2009, the company introduced its premium rate Crystal Cabin service, using glass-bottom cabins.\n\nOn 25 January 2012, Ngong Ping 360 was hit by a technical fault which was caused by a pulley which wasn't running smoothly, causing the automated system to grind to a halt. It said all passengers who were stranded had been brought to safety.\n\nNgong Ping Cable Car is a long bi-cable gondola lift system (referred to by its operators as a \"cable car\") linking between Tung Chung (where it connects the MTR Tung Chung station) and Ngong Ping (where the Po Lin Monastery and Tian Tan Buddha are located). Between the two terminals at Tung Chung (Tung Chung Terminal) and Ngong Ping, the lift system runs across the southern shore of the Hong Kong International Airport island and Nei Lak Shan, with eight towers including the stations. Five of the towers are located within the country park.\n\nThe cable car journey offers a 25-minute aerial alternative to the current one-hour journey by Tung Chung Road, allowing visitors to glide across Tung Chung Bay and up to Lantau Island towards Ngong Ping Plateau.\n\nThe cableway starts at the Tung Chung Terminal, runs across Tung Chung Bay to Airport Island Angle Station on Chek Lap Kok, where it turns through about 60 degrees before returning across Tung Chung Bay. It then runs up the Lantau North Country Park to another angle station near Nei Lak Shan (Nei Lak Shan Angle Station), before finally descending to the Ngong Ping Terminal.\n\nDuring the 25-minute journey, travellers can see panoramic views over the North Lantau Country Park, the South China Sea, Hong Kong International Airport, the Tung Chung valley, Ngong Ping Plateau and surrounding terrain and waterways. As visitors approach Ngong Ping, they can see The Big Buddha and the Po Lin Monastery.\n\nDesigned by Aedas, also the architect of the project, the line uses a continuous circulating twin cable aerial ropeway system, technically described as a bicable gondola lift. The Leitner Group was the contractor for the cable car system. Between the Tung Chung and Ngong Ping Terminals, the 5.7 km cableway changes direction twice at the two angle stations, one on the south shore of Chek Lap Kok; the other west of Nei Lak Shan within the Lantau North Country Park. Whilst the gondola cabins are temporarily detached from the cables at each angle station, there are no passenger loading or unloading facilities at these points.\n\nThe cableway is supported by 8 towers. The cabin has a modern design with seating for 10 and standing room for another 7. It also incorporates features to meet the needs of disabled passengers, including elderly and wheelchair users. The system has a capacity of 3,500 people per hour in each direction.\n\nThe cableway and the cabins come from the Leitner Group. A continuous circulating bi-cable aerial ropeway system, where the track cable acts as a rail in the sky and the haul cable pulls the cabins, allows long spans between towers. It is the first of its type to be installed in Hong Kong. Martin Leitner, chief sales officer of Leitner, explained that the cable car system used in Hong Kong is much heavier and bigger than that used in Austria. He said the steel columns used to support the system have to be stronger, and thus more expensive.\n\nThe cable car line offers two levels of service based on different cabin designs, branded Standard Cabins and Crystal Cabins. The Crystal Cabins are distinguished by their glass bottoms, and are charged at a premium rate. Both sets of cabins circulate on the same cable, with passengers being segregated by queuing systems at both terminals.\n\nThe Ngong Ping Village, built next to the Ngong Ping Cable Car Terminal, occupies a 15,000 square metre site and has been designed to mirror and uphold the cultural and spiritual veracity of the Ngong Ping area. Traditional Chinese architectural designs are a feature of the Ngong Ping Village, which contains an assortment of shopping and dining experiences, on top of a number of key attractions including Walking with Buddha, the Monkey's Tale Theatre and the Ngong Ping Tea House. Chinese New Year, Christmas and the three days of Buddha's birthday are among the most crowded days.\n\nNgong Ping Village's international cable car gallery has cable car replicas from various countries including China, Switzerland, Italy, Brazil, Austria, France, Italy, Germany etc.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1840325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840325", "title": "Shippensburg University of Pennsylvania", "text": "Shippensburg University of Pennsylvania\n\nShippensburg University of Pennsylvania (Ship or SU) is a public university in Shippensburg, Pennsylvania. It is one of the fourteen schools that comprise the Pennsylvania State System of Higher Education. Founded in 1871, it later became the first teachers college in Pennsylvania. Shippensburg University is accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education.\n\nThe commonwealth legislated the State Normal School for \"the education and training of teachers\" in the seventh district (7 counties) to be in Shippensburg, and in 1871 the cornerstone was laid for the building designated the Cumberland Valley State Normal School. In 1917 the school was purchased by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.\n\nOn June 4, 1926, the school was authorized to grant the bachelor of science in education degree in elementary and junior high education. The school received a charter on October 12, 1926, making it the first normal school in Pennsylvania to become a state teachers college. On June 3, 1927, the State Council of Education authorized the school to change its name to the State Teachers College at Shippensburg.\n\nThe business education curriculum was approved on December 3, 1937. On December 8, 1939, Shippensburg State Teachers College became the first teachers college in Pennsylvania and the fourth in the United States to be accredited by the Middle States Association of Colleges and (Secondary) Schools.\n\nThe State Council of Education approved graduate work leading to the master of education degree on January 7, 1959. On January 8, 1960, the name change to Shippensburg State College was authorized.\n\nThe arts and sciences curriculum was authorized by the State Council of Education on April 18, 1962, and the bachelor of science in business administration degree program was initiated on September 1, 1967.\n\nOn November 12, 1982, the governor of the Commonwealth signed Senate Bill 506 establishing the State System of Higher Education. Shippensburg State College was designated Shippensburg University of Pennsylvania effective July 1, 1983.\n\nIn 1985, many of the original historic buildings of the campus, including Old Main, were listed on the National Register of Historic Places.\n\nShippensburg offers more than 100 undergraduate programs in the College of Arts and Sciences, the College of Education and Human Services, and the John L. Grove College of Business. It also offers more than 50 master's degree programs, 2 doctoral programs, and 3 post-bachelor or post-master's certificate programs in 17 fields of study in the School of Graduate Studies. The university accredited by Middle States Commission on Higher Education and specific degree programs are accredited by AACSB International, ABET, Academy of Criminal Justice Sciences, Accrediting Council on Education in Journalism and Mass Communications, American Chemical Society, Council on Social Work Education, Council for the Accreditation of Counseling and Related Educational Programs, International Association of Counseling Services, National Council for the Accreditation of Teachers, and Council for Exceptional Children.\n\n\nThe Office of Professional, Continuing, and Distance Education (formerly the Office of Extended Studies) also offers a variety of courses, workshops, training sessions, continuing education, and credit and non-credit courses.\n\nThe \"U.S. News & World Report\" again ranked Shippensburg University among the top public universities in the North in its book \"America's Best Colleges 2018.\" It also ranked #30 in the Top Public Schools category.\n\nThe Ezra Lehman Memorial Library provides Web access to: its holdings, the holdings of the State Library and 24 other academic libraries, a variety of full text databases, electronic books, and Internet sites. The library collection includes over 2 million items, including bound volumes, micro-form pieces, periodicals, audiovisual titles, government documents, and University archives. The Information and Computing Technologies Center maintains a campus network with a number of computer labs for student use. Each student at SU receives an email account and access to the Internet. At the end of the 2009 school year, the Ezra Lehman Memorial Library first floor was completely renovated with new work stations, computers, and a new look.\n\nShippensburg University is an NCAA Division II school and one of eighteen schools to compete in the Pennsylvania State Athletic Conference (PSAC). The school maintains intercollegiate programs for baseball, basketball (Men & Women), cross country (Men & Women), field hockey, football, lacrosse (Men & Women), soccer (Men & Women), softball, track and field (Men & Women), swimming (Men & Women), tennis (Women), volleyball (Women) and wrestling. Several club sports, such as rugby (Men & Women), Ultimate Frisbee and the inline hockey team, also participate in independent leagues. The home venue of the university's football and track & field programs is Seth Grove Stadium. The team name is the Raiders, and the mascot is \"Big Red,\" a red-tail hawk wearing a pirates hat. The team colors are blue and red.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1840328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840328", "title": "United Devices", "text": "United Devices\n\nUnited Devices, Inc. was a privately held, commercial distributed computing company that focused on the use of grid computing to manage high-performance computing systems and enterprise cluster management. Its products and services allowed users to \"allocate workloads to computers and devices throughout enterprises, aggregating computing power that would normally go unused.\" It operated under the name Univa UD for a time, after merging with Univa on September 17, 2007.\n\nFounded in 1999 in Austin, Texas, United Devices began with distributed computing expertise from distributed.net and SETI@home, although only a few of the original technical staff from those organizations remained through the years.\n\nIn April 2001, grid.org was formally announced as a philanthropic non-profit website to demonstrate the benefits of Internet-based large scale grid computing.\n\nLater in 2002 with help from UD, NTT Data launched a similar Internet-based Cell Computing project targeting Japanese users. In 2004, IBM and United Devices worked together to start the World Community Grid project as another demonstration of Internet-based grid computing.\n\nIn August 2005, United Devices acquired the Paris-based GridXpert company and added \"Synergy\" to its product lineup.\n\nIn 2006, the company acknowledged seeing an industry shift from only using grid computing for compute-intensive applications towards data center automation and business application optimization.\n\nPartly in response to the market shifts and reorganization, grid.org was shut down on April 27, 2007 after completing its mission to \"demonstrate the viability and benefits of large-scale Internet-based grid computing\".\n\nOn September 17, 2007, the company announced that it would merge with the Lisle, Illinois-based Univa and operate under the new name Univa UD. The combined company would offer open source solutions based around Globus Toolkit, while continuing to sell its existing grid products and support its existing customers.\n\nOn June 26, 2008, United Devices client software on World Community Grid finished its role and completely relayed to BOINC's.\n\n\nFrom 2001 until 2007, United Devices operated a series of public projects on their grid.org website as part of a philanthropic effort. It also acted as a marketing tool, helping to spread awareness of the Grid MP product and demonstrating the platform's scalability. Some of the costs associated with operating the past projects on grid.org have been financially sponsored in part by companies including Microsoft, Intel, and IBM.\n\nOn April 27, 2007, United Devices closed down grid.org and the Cancer Research Project with the announcement that it \"has completed its mission to demonstrate the viability and benefits of large-scale Internet-based grid computing.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1840351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840351", "title": "Bully algorithm", "text": "Bully algorithm\n\nIn distributed computing, the bully algorithm is a method for dynamically electing a coordinator or leader from a group of distributed computer processes. The process with the highest process ID number from amongst the non-failed processes is selected as the coordinator.\n\nThe algorithm assumes that:\n\nThe algorithm uses the following message types:\n\nWhen a process recovers from failure, or the failure detector indicates that the current coordinator has failed, performs the following actions:\n\n\nThe safety property expected of leader election protocols is that every non-faulty process either elects a process , or elects none at all. Note that all processes that elect a leader must decide on the same process as the leader. The Bully algorithm satisfies this property (under the system model specified), and at no point in time is it possible for two processes in the group to have\na conflicting view of who the leader is, except during an election. This is true because if it weren't, there are two processes and such that both sent the Coordinator (victory) message to the group. This means and must also have sent each other victory messages. But this cannot happen, since before sending the victory message, Election messages would have been exchanged between the two, and the process with a lower process ID among the two would never send out victory messages. We have a contradiction, and hence our initial assumption that there are two leaders in the system at any given time is false, and that shows that the bully algorithm is safe.\n\nLiveness is also guaranteed in the synchronous, crash-recovery model. Consider the would-be leader failing after sending an Answer (Alive) message but before sending a Coordinator (victory) message. If it does not recover before the set timeout on lower ID processes, one of them will become leader eventually (even if some of the other processes crash). If the failed process recovers in time, it simply sends a Coordinator (victory) message to all of the group.\n\nAssuming that the bully algorithm messages are of a fixed (known, invariant) sizes, the most number of messages are exchanged in the group when the process with the lowest ID initiates an election. This process sends (N−1) Election messages, the next higher ID sends (N−2) messages, and so on, resulting in formula_1 election messages. There are also the formula_1 Alive messages, and formula_3 co-ordinator messages, thus making the overall number messages exchanged in the worst case be formula_1.\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "1840352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840352", "title": "Subcity Radio", "text": "Subcity Radio\n\nSubcity Radio (formerly Sub City and SubCity) is a non-profit freeform radio station, arts collective and events promoter based at the University of Glasgow which is run by volunteers from the University and local community with the aim of providing an alternative to commercial and mainstream radio providers. It currently broadcasts online year round and until September 2009 also on temporary short-term FM Restricted Service Licence broadcasts. The station also hosts a large catalogue of audio for on-demand listening and podcasting, including recordings of the live stream, sessions, interviews, news and live recordings. Off-air, Subcity runs various events and club nights throughout the year, with previous venues including the Sub Club, Art School, Research Club and The Arches.\n\nSubcity is run by volunteers and has over 200 weekly contributors from all over the city. Contributors include current students and staff of the university, students from other institutions, former students and others from the local community. Many previous contributors have gone on to jobs at commercial and BBC radio stations most notably: Laura Sayers (BBC Radio 1), Dougal Perman (Radio Magnetic), Annie McGuire (BBC Scotland) and Adam Uytman (XFM). In addition to those who have gone on to high-profile careers in radio, many Subcity contributors already had or went on to achieve fame in other areas most notably: Hudson Mohawke, Optimo, Boom Monk Ben, Slam (band) as well as many other Glasgow clubs and DJs.\n\nSubcity has no playlist, instead each show is largely autonomous from station management and presenters have full choice in what music they play as well as the format sound and branding of their shows. The station broadcasts all year round, and from November 2015, the show application process was changed from being a twice yearly window to being open indefinitely. Applicants are invited to submit proposals for a radio show with an outline of what music would be played and what style and format the show would take. Musical specialism, non-mainstream music and under-represented musical styles are encouraged. This contributor autonomy is extended to most areas of the station's output including podcasts, reviews, design, photography, comedy and current affairs output.\n\nIt is a part of, and partially funded by, Glasgow University Students' Representative Council. It is one of four student media organisations who receive support from the SRC, who provide both a service and opportunities to students at the University and to the wider community. Subcity is also a former member of the Student Radio Association.\n\nSubcity was founded in 1995 after the initial Glasgow University radio brand, Sweet FM, was used by former members of the team who had graduated. They encountered regulatory problems during their broadcast in 1994, leaving the Sweet FM brand tarnished and in dispute with the University student authorities over naming and logo rights. Subsequently, the official university station was rebranded as Subcity Radio.\n\nThe University's first broadcast was as Sweet FM in September 1993 for one month on an FM RSL from an un-let University flat in the Murano Street Student Village. The next broadcast was under the Ton and a Half brand in conjunction with the Glasgow School of Art who were celebrating their 150th anniversary in the Winter of 1994, with a subsequence joint venture with the School of Art in the winter of 1995 under the \"Art School Radio\" brand.\n\n\"1995\"\n\n\n\"1996\"\n\n\n\"1997\"\n\n\n\"2000\"\n\n\"2002\"\n\n\n\"2003\"\n\n\n\"2004\"\n\n\n\"2005\"\n\n\n\"2007\"\n\n\n\"2008\"\n\n\n\"2009\"\n\n\n\"2010\"\n\n\n\"2015\"\n\n\"2017\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1840356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840356", "title": "AsiaWorld–Expo station", "text": "AsiaWorld–Expo station\n\nAsiaWorld–Expo is a station on the Airport Express of the Hong Kong MTR. It serves the AsiaWorld–Expo on the northeast corner of Chek Lap Kok, the island on which the Hong Kong International Airport is located.\n\nAsiaWorld–Expo is an exhibition centre designed to host large-scale trade fairs, exhibitions, conventions and concerts. It is located adjacent to Hong Kong International Airport. To better serve the travelling needs of exhibitors and visitors, the Airport Express was extended with a new station at AsiaWorld–Expo.\nThe track near AsiaWorld-Expo station opened when Airport Express inaugurated on 6 July 1998, but the station was not built and only act as a turn back siding. The station opened on 20 December 2005, in time for the opening of the new exhibition centre on the same date. The extension provides rail access to the exhibition centre from the central business district and other stations on the MTR network.\n\nThe platform screen doors at this station are different from on other stations of the Airport Express (except the now closed Terminal 2 platforms of Airport station), as the screen doors are designed for the trains of Tung Chung line as well, so those trains can also be used to run services from and to the station in order to increase passenger flow when large exhibitions or concerts are being held.\n"}
{"id": "1840358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840358", "title": "Incantation (band)", "text": "Incantation (band)\n\nIncantation is an American death metal band that was formed by John McEntee and Paul Ledney in 1989. They are one of the leaders in the New York City death-metal scene along with fellow bands Suffocation, Mortician and Immolation, even though the band is currently located in Johnstown, Pennsylvania. To date the band has released ten full-length records, two live records, four EPs, two singles, three splits, one DVD, and three demos. Their most recent album, \"Profane Nexus\", was released through Relapse Records in August 2017. The band have maintained a significant cult following and underground popularity since the '90s, and are considered to be highly influential on a range of later death metal bands including Dead Congregation, Grave Miasma and Portal, who are often described as 'cavernous death metal'. Incantation's music frequently draws on anti-Christian, Satanic and occult themes, and the band is notable for mixing widely varied tempos into their music, often playing slow, down-tuned passages similar to those performed by death-doom bands like Autopsy.\n\nThe band has seen many lineup changes in their -year history. Guitarist/vocalist McEntee is the sole original member, though drummer Kyle Severn has appeared on every studio album since their third full-length, \"Diabolical Conquest\". Incantation first came to prominence with \"Onward to Golgotha\" and \"Mortal Throne of Nazarene\", both of which feature Craig Pillard on vocals. Following the release of the \"Forsaken Mourning of Angelic Anguish\" EP in 1997, Pillard departed the band and was replaced by Daniel Corchado of The Chasm. Corchado performed on one album, 1998's \"Diabolical Conquest\", before departing. Vocalist Mike Saez performed on the next two albums, \"The Infernal Storm\" (2000) and \"Blasphemy\" (2002). Beginning with \"Decimate Christendom\", McEntee took on vocal responsibilities, a role that he continues to the present.\n\nCurrent\n\nFormer members\nLive musicians\n\nTimeline\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1840364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840364", "title": "Franz Ziereis", "text": "Franz Ziereis\n\nFranz Xaver Ziereis (13 August 1905 – 24 May 1945) was the commandant of the Mauthausen concentration camp from 1939 until the camp was liberated by the American forces in 1945.\nZiereis was born on 13 August 1904 in Munich, Kingdom of Bavaria, German Empire (now in Bavaria, Germany), where he spent 8 years in elementary school and then began as an apprentice and messenger boy in a department store. In the evenings he studied commerce. In 1922 he went to work as a labourer in a carpentry shop.\n\nZiereis joined Germany's Reichswehr (army) on 1 April 1924, for a period of 12 years. He was discharged with the rank of sergeant in 1936 and joined the SS on September 30 of the same year. He attained the rank of SS-Obersturmführer and was assigned as a training instructor to the SS-Totenkopfverbände. In 1937 he was given command of a Totenkopfverbände unit and later became a training instructor.\n\nZeireis replaced Albert Sauer as commandant of Mauthausen on 9 February 1939 by order of Theodor Eicke, Inspector of Concentration Camps. On 25 August 1939, Ziereis received a promotion to the rank of SS-Sturmbannführer and, on 20 April 1944 he received his final promotion to SS-Standartenführer.\n\nZiereis fled with his wife on 3 May 1945. He attempted to hide out in his hunting lodge on the Pyhrn mountain in Upper Austria. He was discovered and arrested on 23 May 1945, by an American army unit. He was shot three times in the stomach while trying to escape and brought to a U.S. military hospital set up at the former Gusen concentration camp I where he died shortly after interrogation by a former inmate of Mauthausen, Hans Marsalek. His corpse was later hung on the fence of Gusen I by former prisoners of Gusen.\n"}
{"id": "1840368", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840368", "title": "Saint Anne's Park", "text": "Saint Anne's Park\n\nSaint Annes Park () is a public park situated between Raheny and Clontarf, suburbs on the northside of Dublin, Ireland. It is owned and managed by Dublin City Council.\n\nThe park, the second largest municipal park in Dublin, is part of a former estate assembled by members of the Guinness family, descendants of Sir Arthur Guinness, founder of the famous brewery, beginning with Benjamin Lee Guinness in 1835 (the largest municipal park is nearby (North) Bull Island, also shared between Clontarf and Raheny). Bisected by a small river, the park features an artificial pond and a number of follies, a rose garden, a fine collection of trees with walks, a playground, cafe and recreational facilities including extensive GAA and soccer playing fields, tennis and golf.\n\nThe estate was named after the Holy Well of the same name. Lands were purchased over time to build up an extensive property, and a large Italianate-style mansion house was commissioned and modified over several generations. The Italianate influence included references in the garden follies to ancient Roman sites and the import of actual antiquities.\n\nSir Arthur Edward Guinness (Lord Ardilaun), who inherited the estate in 1868, and purchased Manresa House next door, was the person most responsible for expanding and developing the estate and gardens and planted wind-breaking evergreen oaktrees (\"Quercus ilex\") and pines along the main avenue and estate boundaries, where they remain. Lady Ardilaun, originally of Bantry House, County Cork, developed the gardens based on her interest in French chateau gardens, but also with eclectic influences of the Victorian era and the horticultural expertise of her Scottish gardener. Lord Ardilaun was also prominent in the Royal Horticultural Society.\n\nLord and Lady Ardilaun had no children and the estate passed to their nephew Bishop Benjamin in the 1920s. In 1937, he decided he could no longer maintain such a large estate and negotiations with Dublin Corporation resulted in the house and of estate being sold to the Corporation for approximately £55,000 in 1939. Bishop Plunkett retained Sybil Hill as a private residence with 30 acres (120,000 m²) of parkland, and it was later sold to the later became the site of St Paul's College, Raheny. In 1952 St. Paul's College acquired an additional 14 acres of Corporation lands, behind their school, to use as school playing fields. During the second World War, Dublin Corporation encouraged local residents to grow vegetables in allotment gardens in the estate.\n\nIn December 1943, the main residence of St Anne's, \"The Mansion,\" was gutted by a fire while being used as a store by the Local Defence Force; the ruins were demolished in 1968. In the meantime, just over of the estate were developed for public housing with the central and most attractive portion comprising about retained as parkland and playing fields.\n\nThe park has a number of features. It is crossed by the small Naniken River, and this in turn feeds the artificial Duck Pond. The Guinness family added a number of follies, a walled garden, and the grand avenue. Over the last fifty years, extensive walks, a famous Rose Garden and newer miniature rose garden, and Dublin's city arboretum, the Millennium Arboretum, with 1,000 varied trees, have been added. \n\nWithin the last decade, Dublin City Council has been restoring parts of the Naniken River to its natural state, creating wildlife habitats and wildflower meadows, and improving the path system. They removed some 1970s interventions, including a secondary pond and some rockery walks, partly due to problems with maintenance and partly to open up a vista from the James Larkin Road. The park management also increased car parking to alleviate traffic congestion in the surrounding neighbourhoods of the popular park.\n\nSt. Annes is known for its follies, of which there are approximately ten, mainly around the Naniken River. The follies include a Herculanean Temple on a mock-ruined bridge abutment along the little river, which served as a tearoom for the family, a Pompeian Water Temple of Isis on the banks of the duck pond, and the Annie Lee Tower and Bridge near the chestnut walk. Other follies include the stone covering of Saint Anne's Well beside the duck pond, the Hermitage Bridge, the Yew Circle and Fountain Pool (behind the formal walled garden beside the house), a \"rustic cave\" and bridge, three rustic archways and a rockwork feature. A \"Druidic Circle\" of Giant's Causeway basalt was lost at an earlier stage. An unusual folly is the Roman style viewing tower which stands on the hill overlooking the duckpond. This started out as an observation tower on the roof of the original house. Later, the tower was removed during extensive refurbishment of St. Anne's house in about 1873 and placed in its current location. It is modelled on the Tomb of the Julii at Glanum near St. Rémy in France.\n\nMany of the follies are in a neglected condition at present, with graffiti being an ongoing particular issue. For example, the Roman style viewing tower is graffiti-covered, has been closed for many years and is completely hidden by mature trees (it could only be revealed, and the view restored, by felling trees, which would be detrimental to the environment of the park, so an alternative proposal is that the tower be moved instead to the site of the old rockery, near the junction of James Larkin Road and Mount Prospect Avenue). In 2010, Dublin City Council, with the support of the Heritage Council, commissioned a strategy by conservation architects (Shaffrey and Associates) for the long-term conservation of these follies, and it is planned to implement this on a phased basis.\n\nThe elaborate Tudor red brick Ardilaun stables were designed by George Coppinger Ashlin, also architect of All Saints Church at Raheny. The \"Red Stables\" as they are called, were renovated in the 1990s by Dublin City Council as the Red Stables Art Centre, with public facilities such as artists' residences upstairs, an exhibition space and a café, Olive's Room. Previous artists-in-residence include Niall de Buitléar, Tadhg McSweeney, and Paul McKinley. A Farmers' Market is held in the courtyard at weekends. This scheme has won international architecture awards.\n\nThe walled garden, including a fruit garden added to the estate by Bishop Plunkett, holds a plant nursery for the Parks Department. Thousands of bedding plants, shrubs, trees, and floral tubs are produced annually in the nursery. There is a herbaceous garden area open during limited hours, and a fine clock tower, restored to working order in 2007. Since 2009, Dublin City Council has provided public allotment gardens (allocated on a lottery basis) to meet the demand by city residents for space to grow their own produce.\n\nThe walled garden next to the house also contained many features, of which few traces remain. The garden was entered through a \"claire-voie\" screen of bronze, painted yew green and elaborately gilded. The centre walk of the garden consisted of a castellated yew hedge with marble statuary along its length. The walk terminated in a nymphaeum, flanked by obelisks of yew and featuring a sculpted group of Jupiter and Thetis. Also in the walled house garden was an aviary with golden pheasants; a floral temple of arches and chains in cast iron; and a circular yew hedge with allegorical marble Italian statues representing the five continents, which were reflected in a great circular marble basin in the centre. The Georgian door-case of the original house \"Thornhill\" was also erected as an entrance of a French lavender garden.\n\nIn 1975, St Anne's Rose Garden was opened to the public. In 1980 it was given a Civic Award by Bord Failte and the Irish Town Planning Institute, and since 1981 it has been a centre for International Rose Trials. Its development led to the annual Rose Festival, now a popular event on the summer calendar for Dublin gardeners and families every July.\n\nThe park is intensively used by the public through its 35 playing pitches, 18 hard-surfaced tennis courts (some managed by Raheny Tennis Club), and a par-3 golf course (Glen Conway is the current course record holder with 14 under par set 7 Aug 2016). Woodland paths provide for walkers and joggers.\n\nThere is a weekly free 5 km parkrun on Saturday mornings at 9:30 in the park.\n\nThere is an all weather cricket crease in the middle of the main playing fields, and one pitch is floodlit for Gaelic Games. North Dublin Softball Club also use the park for training. There are 4 Boules (pétanque) courts, and a model car racing track.\n\nMammals present in the park include badgers, hedgehogs, rabbits, fox, grey squirrels, house mice, field mice, pipistrelle bats and brown rats. Birds include sparrow hawk, woodcock and jay. The park has a greater than average diversity of bee species and is also notable for many species of butterflies.\n\nRed squirrels were formerly numerous in the park, which was one of the last strongholds of the species in Dublin. Grey squirrels were first noticed at the Sybil Hill end of the park in 1998. The grey squirrels have since spread throughout the park and numbers of reds have been drastically reduced. A programme to reduce grey squirrels was carried out by Dublin City Council and University College Dublin, but the remaining red squirrel population was not reproducing and has crashed, for reasons uncertain. It is hoped that a re-introduction programme will be possible in future.\n\nThe park has a range of vegetation habitats and many historic trees. The plant collections are of national importance. There are also protected native plants and species of botanical interest. These are surveyed and managed by Dublin City Council Parks and Landscape Services Division.\n"}
{"id": "1840369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840369", "title": "Cristóbal de Castillejo", "text": "Cristóbal de Castillejo\n\nSome of his work consisted of translations of older work, in particular the 1st century BC Roman poet Catullus's \"A Lesbia\" as \"Dame amor, besos sin cuento\" (Seen side-by-side in ).\n\nAt fifteen he was taken to the Court of Ferdinand the Catholic, where he served as a page to Archduke Ferdinand of Habsburg, grandson of the king and the younger brother of Emperor Charles V. In this period he entered the Cistercian convent of San Martin de Valdeiglesias. \nIn 1525, he left his retirement to take over the secretariat of its former master, who in 1526 became king of Hungary, the year after King of Bohemia, and who in 1531 would accede to the German crown with the title of King of the Romans as imperial lieutenant of his brother. He traveled throughout Europe.\n\nIn Vienna, though a monk, he led a dissolute life and had an affair and an illegitimate child. He fell on hard times because he wasted all the benefits and privileges that their positions gave him. \nHe fell in love with a young German lady, Anne of Schaumburg, who left him for a Bohemian noble, but apparently also went after that Anne of Aragon after he lost hope of ever returning to Spain, evoking a famous account romance: \nDisillusioned, he retired to a convent in Vienna, where he died. \nHe is buried in Wiener Neustadt.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1840376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840376", "title": "Disneyland Resort station", "text": "Disneyland Resort station\n\nDisneyland Resort () is a station on the Hong Kong MTR Disneyland Resort Line. It was built to serve the Hong Kong Disneyland Resort, and is located in Penny's Bay.\nIt opened for public use on 1 August 2005, in preparation for the opening of Hong Kong Disneyland Resort, which opened on 12 September 2005. \nThe station is designed in a Victorian style, with spacious open areas. It has also been designed with a Disney theme in mind to match the décor of the park. Architecture firm Aedas was the architect for the Disneyland Resort Line and, consequently, for the Sunny Bay and Disneyland Resort stations.\n\nThis station is the second to have only one platform, after Po Lam Station on the Tseung Kwan O Line. The platform is equipped with automatic platform gates to prevent passengers from accidentally falling onto the track. This kind of gate was the first of its kind to be introduced in Hong Kong. As of 2015, the current automatic platform gates are as long as a four-car train and can be extended in the future to accommodate a train length of up to eight cars. There is only one exit at this station.\n\nThere is a bus interchange at Hong Kong Disneyland Resort. R8 parallels the Disneyland Resort Line. Routes R33 and R42 operate only on Sundays and public holidays.\n\n"}
{"id": "1840377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840377", "title": "Eusebius of Emesa", "text": "Eusebius of Emesa\n\nEusebius of Emesa (c. 300c. 360) was a learned ecclesiastic of the Greek church, and a pupil of Eusebius of Caesarea. He was born in Edessa (in today's southeastern Turkey) and became the bishop of Emesa (in today's Syria). The Latin form of his name is Eusebius Emesenus.\n\nAfter receiving his early education in his native town, he studied theology at Caesarea in Palestine and Antioch, and philosophy and science at Alexandria. Among his teachers were Eusebius of Caesarea and Patrophilus of Scythopolis.\n\nThe reputation he acquired for learning and eloquence led to his being offered the see of Alexandria in succession to the deposed Athanasius at the beginning of 339, but he declined, and the council of Antioch chose Gregory of Cappadocia, \"a fitter agent for the rough work to be done.\" Eusebius accepted the small bishopric of Emesa (the modern Homs), but his powers as mathematician and astronomer led his flock to accuse him of practising sorcery, and he had to flee to Laodicea (the modern Latakia). A reconciliation was effected by the patriarch of Antioch, but tradition says that Eusebius finally resigned his charge and lived a studious life in Antioch.\n\nHis fame as an astrologer commended him to the notice of the Roman emperor Constantius II, with whom he became a great favourite, accompanying him on many of his expeditions. The theological sympathies of Eusebius were with the semi-Arian party, but his interest in the controversy was not strong. His life was written by his friend George of Laodicea. He was a man of extraordinary learning, great eloquence and considerable intellectual power, but of his numerous writings only a few fragments are now in existence.\n\nA considerable number of his sermons are extant, although they have not always been recognised as his work. Butyaert discovered a manuscript at Troyes in 1914 containing a Latin translation of some sermons. A collection also exists in Armenian, combined with some sermons of Severian of Gabala.\n\n"}
{"id": "1840378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840378", "title": "Lad culture", "text": "Lad culture\n\nLad culture (also laddish culture and laddism) is a British subculture initially associated with the Britpop movement. Arising in the early 1990s, the image of the \"lad\"—or \"new lad\"—was that of a generally middle class figure espousing attitudes typically attributed to the working classes. The subculture involves young men assuming an anti-intellectual position, shunning sensitivity in favour of drinking, violence, hard drugs, racism and sexism.\n\nThe term \"new lad\" was coined by journalist Sean O'Hagan in a 1993 article in \"Arena\".\n\nPart of \"the postmodern transformation of masculinity ... the 1990s 'new lad' was a clear reaction to the 'new man' ... most clearly embodied in current men's magazines, such as \"Maxim\", \"FHM\" and \"Loaded\", and marked by a return to hegemonic masculine values of male homosociality\". At a time when \"men saw themselves as battered by feminism\", one could also consider that \"laddishness is a response to humiliation and indignity ... the \"girl-power\"! \"girl-power\"! female triumphalism which echoes through the land\".\n\nLad culture grew beyond men's magazines to movies such as \"Snatch\" and \"Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels\" and to the TV sitcom \"Men Behaving Badly\". \"Bottom\", \"Al Murray's Happy Hour\" and \"They Think It's All Over\" are television programmes that present images of laddishness that are dominated by the male pastimes of drinking, watching football, and sex. These are presented as being ironic and \"knowing\" (the masthead of \"Loaded\" is \"for men who should know better\").\n\nThe rise of the new lad coincided with a backlash against feminism by both men and women, and in particular against the figure of the new man as \"one who has subjugated his masculinity in order to fulfill the needs of women ... this passive and insipid image\". At a time when \"the stereotypes for men attentive to feminism were two: Eunuch, or Beast\",—and when women were increasingly feeling that \"new men are fine in the kitchen, but who wants them in the bedroom?\"—the \"new lad\" image offered \"a space of fun, consumption and sexual freedom for men\", as well as \"a refuge from the constraints and demands of marriage and nuclear family\".\n\nContrasting the two gender constructs, Tim Edwards, a sociologist at the University of Leicester, describes the new man as \"pro\"-feminist, albeit narcissistic, and the new lad as \"pre\"-feminist, and a reaction to second-wave feminism. The new man image failed to appeal to a wide readership whereas the more adolescent Lad culture appeals more to the ordinary man, says Edwards. Social constraints also meant that \"it is easier to be a lad rather than a new man in most workplaces\".\n\nHowever, Edwards also points out that lad culture men's magazines of the 21st century contain little that is actually new. Noting a study of the history of \"Esquire\", he observes that there is little substantially different between the new man \"Arena\" and \"GQ\" and the new lad \"Loaded\" et al. Both address assumed men's interests of cars, alcohol, sport, and women, and differ largely in that the latter have a more visual style. From this he infers that \"the New Man and the New Lad are niches in the market more than anything else, often defined according to an array of lifestyle accessories\", and concludes that the new lad image dominates the new man image simply because of its greater success at garnering advertising revenue for men's magazines.\n\nLad culture has attracted criticism from feminist circles. For example, Germaine Greer critiques it in her 2000 book \"The Whole Woman\"; while Kira Cochrane asserts that \"it's a dark world that \"Loaded\" and the lad culture has bequeathed us\". Joanne Knowles of Liverpool John Moores University wrote that the \"lad\" displays \"a pre-feminist and racist attitude to women as both sex objects and creatures from another species\".\n\nA study by Gabrielle Ivinson of Cardiff University and Patricia Murphy of the Open University identified lad culture as a source of behavioural confusion, and an investigation by Adrienne Katz linked it to suicide and depression. A study of the architecture profession found that lad culture had a negative impact on women completing their professional education. Commentator Helen Wilkinson believes that lad culture has affected politics and decreased the ability of women to participate.\n\nThe UK's largest student union warned in a 2015 study that universities were failing to address the issue of lad culture, with almost half (49%) of all universities having no policy against discrimination due to sexuality, or anti-sexual harassment policies.\n\nThe word \"ladette\" has been coined to describe young women who take part in laddish behaviour. It is defined by the \"Concise Oxford Dictionary\" as: \"Young women who behave in a boisterously assertive or crude manner and engage in heavy drinking sessions.\"\n\nThe term \"lad\" is also used in Australian youth culture, however it is used to refer to an underclass criminal subculture that is more similar to the chav or football casual subcultures, rather than the middle class student subculture the term refers to in the United Kingdom. Australian lads wear a distinctive dress code, consisting of running caps and shoes combined with striped polo shirts and sports shorts. They frequently use pig latin phrases in conversation, for example \"Ad-lay\" to refer to a fellow \"Lad\". Lad-rap is a growing underground hip hop scene in Australia.\n\nIt is also sometimes used in Canada to refer to (primarily) university-aged men and young adults in a similar fashion to the British usage, with an emphasis on beer drinking.\n\nThere are many similarities with the American bro culture, which often celebrates binge drinking, sex, and may be associated with membership in college fraternities.\n\n"}
{"id": "1840380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840380", "title": "Chen Hongmou", "text": "Chen Hongmou\n\nChen Hongmou (, October 10, 1696—July 14, 1771), courtesy name Ruzi () and Rongmen (), was a Chinese official, scholar, and philosopher, who is widely regarded as a model official of the Qing Dynasty.\n\nChen was born in Lingui, Guangxi, to a family who migrated from Chenzhou in Hunan province in the late Ming dynasty. He was noted for the longest total service and most provincial posts than any other official during the Qing dynasty. In their work \"Anthology of Qing Statecraft Writings\", He Changling and Wei Yuan praised him as an exemplary official, being surpassed only by Gu Yanwu.\n\nChen considered himself a disciple of Zhu Xi, but condemned various types of intellectual partisanship. His essays were very progressive for his time - in his vigorous advocation of education for people everywhere, he was one of the first philosophers to clearly state the idea that women and non-Chinese tribes could, and should, receive the same education as Han Chinese men.\n\nTogether with Gu Yanwu, He Changling, and Wei Yuan (mentioned above) he belongs to the \"statecraft school\" of the Chinese thought: its proponents advocated accommodation of the local administration to the changing social realities.\n"}
{"id": "1840381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840381", "title": "Venturi Automobiles", "text": "Venturi Automobiles\n\nVenturi Automobiles is a Monaco-based automotive manufacturer. Founded in 1984 by French engineers Claude Poiraud and Gérard Godfroy as \"MVS (Manufacture de Voitures de Sport)\", the company's purpose was to compete in the \"Grand Tourisme\" market. This was only the most recent post-war attempt at building a sporty luxury car in France, following in the footsteps of Facel Vega, Monica, and Ligier. As with its predecessors, Venturi was immediately faced with many challenges ranging from an unknown name to its under-capitalized and under-staffed state. Venturi did nonetheless manage to continue in production for nearly sixteen years, declaring bankruptcy in 2000. The same year, Monegasque Gildo Pallanca Pastor purchased Venturi, and decided to focus on electric-powered engines. This change of direction led to the limited-production Fétish, the first electric sports car in the world. Following the public's enthusiasm for this first electric model, the brand developed 5 other innovative concept cars.\n\nThe first team to commit to the Formula E World Championship, Venturi competes under the name of ROKiT Venturi Racing with its drivers Felipe Massa and Edoardo Mortara.\n\nToday, Venturi is specialised in the development of high performance electric vehicles destined to break records or to operate in extreme conditions. Through its Venturi Global Challenges, Venturi aims at demonstrating the efficiency and durability of electric vehicles. \n\nThe first Venturi came out in 1984, created by Claude Poiraud and Gérard Godfroy, two former engineers at Heuliez. The goal was to present the only \"Grand Tourisme\" French car capable of competing with the English Aston Martin, the Italian Ferrari, and the German Porsche. The first car shown had a Volkswagen Golf GTi engine and the name was originally spelled \"Ventury\", with a \"y\" at the end. In 1985, the car was shown with a Peugeot 505 Turbo engine, but by the 1986 Paris Motor Show it had reached its definitive form with the PRV V6 engine. Production began in 1987, with five cars built in the first year with production increasing in the subsequent years. The headquarters of the company was located in Couëron, Pays de Loire, where almost 750 cars were produced in the forthcoming 20 years.\nFrom 1987 to the mid-1990s, they built mid-engined coupés and roadsters with turbocharged PRV engines and Renault gearboxes. Engine power ranged from for the then offered MVS Venturi Coupé and Transcup series. The naturally aspirated Venturi 160 used the catalyzed 2849 cc version of the PRV V6; this was meant to be sold in Japan and was therefore also available with an automatic transmsission. Only a handful were built. There was also the Venturi 180, mainly developed for Italy, which used the turbocharged 1995-cc inline-four Douvrin engine from the Renault 21 Turbo.\n\nVenturi was also briefly involved with the Larrousse Formula One team. The team's 1992 car, which bore the Venturi name, was designed and built by Venturi Larousse UK, a British company formerly known as Fomet 1, which had previously designed the 1991 Fondmetal Formula One cars.\nThe Venturi 400 GT remains one of the highest performing French cars ever produced, and it is in fact the very first car in the world to have standard carbon brakes. True to that claim, the Atlantique 400 GT with a DOHC 4 valves per cylinder twin-turbo V6 engine rated at at 6000 rpm and at 4500 rpm of torque with a compression ratio of 7.3:1, delivered excellent performance to put it on par with Ferraris of the early 90s. The 400 GT could hit in 4.7 seconds and top speed, while the Atlantique 300 Biturbo with a V6 could accelerate from 0- in 4.7 seconds and could reach a top speed of . \nA limited-edition 400 GTR was built to satisfy the homologation requirements to compete 24 Hours of Le Mans. High-level competition has also brought fame to the brand. Stéphane Ratel, who would later found the FIA GT Championship, was at the origin of the Venturi Gentlemen Drivers Trophy, which gathered an impressive array of 75 drivers. Venturi has also won fame through its brilliant performances in the 24 Hours of Le Mans, particularly in 1993 with Christophe Dechavanne and Jacques Laffite on Venturi Jaccadi team, and in 1995 with Paul Belmondo racing on the 600 SLM.\n\nHowever, it was in the BPR Global GT Series races that Venturi established its pedigree defeating Porsche and Ferrari on several occasions. In 1994 in Dijon-Prenois, with Ferté and Neugarten on the 600 LM Jaccadi, at the 1000 km of Paris with Henri Pescarolo and Jean-Claude Basso on the 600 LM, and finally at the 4 Hours Spa race, once again with Michel Ferté and Michel Neugarten.\n\nIn 2000, the Monegasque millionaire Gildo Pallanca Pastor bought Venturi and decided to focus on electric-powered engines. This led to the creation of the Fétish model, the first true electric sports car, powered by next-generation lithium-ion batteries. Its design, technology and level of performance left their mark and paved the way for other electric Venturis such as the Volage, an electric concept roadster car with 8 Active Wheel in-wheel motors from French tire giant Michelin, or the America, an electric SUV.\n\nIn December 2009, Venturi announced its acquisition of French motorcycle manufacturer Voxan, allowing the firm to enter the motorcycle market.\n\nVenturi has launched a series of technological and human challenges aimed at demonstrating the reliability and efficiency of electric vehicles in extreme conditions. Through these Global Challenges, the manufacturer is testing the technologies it develops in extraordinary conditions: excessive speeds, extreme weather conditions, difficult terrain in the most remote regions of the planet... As part of these challenges, Venturi has obtained several records and world firsts since 2009.\n\nMission 01: Jamais Contente is a program launched in 2009 in partnership with the Ohio State University's Center for Automotive Research (CAR). It aims to set electric vehicle speed records on the legendary Bonneville Salt Flats in Utah. The Venturi Buckeye Bullet is the heir to the Jamais Contente, the first ever automobile to break the symbolic 100 km/h mark in 1899. This torpedo-shaped electric car, piloted by Camille Jenatzy, reached 105 km/h, setting a world record for any method of propulsion (steam or petrol) \n\nThe VBB-2, a hydrogen fuel cell-powered version, broke the 303 mph (487 km/h) mark in 2009. The following year, the VBB-2.5, an upgraded version with an electric battery pack, reached a top speed of 308 mph (495 km/h). Finally, in 2016, the VBB-3 – the most advanced electric version of the vehicle with 2,200 kW (3,000 HP) of power – set a new FIA-certified world record of 341 mph (549 km/h) that still stands today.\n\nMission 02 is an electric car journey reminiscent of Citroën’s “Croisière Jaune” (\"Yellow Cruise\"), one of the first rally raids of the 20th century. Departing from Shanghai on May 3, 2010, the expedition covered 14,900 km, crossing China, Kazakhstan, Russia, Ukraine, Poland, the Czech Republic and Germany, finally arriving in Paris on July 13. To date, this is the longest distance covered by an unassisted electric vehicle. This performance was accomplished by Xavier Chevrin and Géraldine Gabin. The vehicle used was an electric Citroën Berlingo \"Powered by Venturi\". Only two battery packs were added in order to increase its range to 500 km.\n\nMission 03 consists of the development of an electric vehicle called Antarctica, which can withstand extreme temperatures as low as -50°C. The aim of the mission will be to make this vehicle available for use by the scientific community at the South Pole where drastic measures are in place to combat all types of pollution.\n\nCurrently under development, Antarctica is undergoing several test phases before being sent to the South Pole probably by the end of 2020.\n\nMission 04 is a modern-day version of the “Croisière Noire” (\"Black Cruise\"), a 1924 automobile expedition that crossed the African continent from north to south. Mission 04: Africa is the first crossing of Africa in an electric vehicle with complete autonomy. The vehicle has covered 5,800 km, including 600 km of tracks.\n\nLeaving Nairobi, Kenya on 11 May 2012 in a Citroën Berlingo \"Powered by Venturi\", Xavier Chevrin and Vivien Floris joined Johannesburg, South Africa on 18 June.\n\nVenturi was the first manufacturer to join the Formula E world championship. Created in 2013, Venturi has been present on the grid since the championship’s inaugural race in 2014, contesting every E-Prix to date. \n\nIn 2015, Venturi became an FIA-approved manufacturer in Formula E, supplying full powertrain systems to Dragon Racing (2015-2016) and Mercedes-backed privateer team HWA Racelab (2018-2019). \n\nIn May 2018, the team signed a three-year deal with eleven time Formula One race winner Felipe Massa. and rehired seven time Macau World Cup winner Edoardo Mortara as teammate to Massa. Susie Wolff became the team principal in June 2018.\n() (results in bold indicate pole position) \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1840385", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840385", "title": "KTXA", "text": "KTXA\n\nKTXA, virtual channel 21 (UHF digital channel 18), is an independent television station licensed to Fort Worth, Texas, United States and serving the Dallas–Fort Worth Metroplex. The station is owned by the CBS Television Stations subsidiary of ViacomCBS, as part of a duopoly with CBS owned-and-operated station KTVT (channel 11), also licensed to Fort Worth. The two stations share primary studio facilities on Bridge Street (off of I-30), east of downtown Fort Worth, and advertising sales offices at CBS Tower on North Central Expressway (north of NorthPark Mall) in Dallas; KTXA's transmitter is located on Tar Road in Cedar Hill, just south of the Dallas–Ellis county line. There is no separate website for KTXA; instead, it is integrated with that of sister station KTVT.\n\nThe UHF channel 21 allocation in the Dallas–Fort Worth market was originally occupied by KFWT, an independent station licensed to Fort Worth that signed on the air on September 14, 1967. Owned by W. C. Windsor's Trinity Broadcasting Company alongside KFWT-FM 102.1, the station was the first of three new UHF independents in six months in the Metroplex. Within two years, however, the station had gone silent for financial reasons. No buyer was ever found, and Trinity declared bankruptcy in March 1970, with the channel 21 equipment repossessed.\n\nKTXA first signed on the air January 4, 1981; originally operating as an independent station, it was founded by Grant Broadcasting. The station's original studio facilities were located on Randol Mill Road, adjacent to Six Flags Over Texas and now-defunct Arlington Stadium in Arlington (although Fort Worth has always been the station's city of license). It ran a general entertainment format of cartoons and sitcoms during the daytime hours, while at night it broadcast the over-the-air subscription television service ONTV, which required a set-top decoder and a subscription fee in order to receive the ONTV signal during programming hours. By 1983, it became a general entertainment station full-time, and added classic movies and off-network drama series.\n\nGrant Broadcasting signed on a similarly formatted station, KTXH in Houston, in 1982. In 1984, both KTXA and KTXH were sold to Gulf Broadcasting, which itself was subsequently purchased by the Taft Television and Radio Company that same year.\nFrom 1985 to 1989, KTXA operated the \"Channel 21 Kids' Club\"; in short promos that aired between cartoons, area children were encouraged to send off for a membership card that would entitle them to discounts at various local businesses and enable them to participate in on-air prize giveaways. They were blue on the front side and white on the back, with a \"KTXA Channel 21 Kids' Club\" logo appearing on the front in red and white along with the line \"I turned 21\". The hostess of these shorts, K.D. Fox, was later featured in many other local promotions for various businesses in the Dallas–Fort Worth area.\n\nThe station was unprofitable throughout the 1980s, but Taft kept strong programming on the station (including Hanna-Barbera cartoons and other programs owned by Taft and distributed by Worldvision Enterprises). In February 1987, Taft sold its independent stations—including KTXA—to the TVX Broadcast Group; the purchase was finalized on April 1, 1987. In 1989, Paramount Pictures purchased a minority stake in TVX; two years later on February 28, 1991, Paramount acquired the remaining interest in TVX and renamed the company Paramount Stations Group; KTXA adopted the on-air branding \"Paramount 21\" during this period. Viacom acquired the stations in 1994 as part of its purchase of Paramount Pictures. Around this time, the station moved its operations to the Paramount Building in the West End district of downtown Dallas.\n\nOn January 16, 1995, KTXA became a charter affiliate of the United Paramount Network (UPN); correspondingly, it changed its branding to \"UPN 21\". After independent station KTVT (channel 11) affiliated with CBS in July 1995, it acquired various syndicated programs that it could not air due to its new network-heavy schedule. It became a UPN owned-and-operated station when Viacom acquired a 50% stake in the network from Chris-Craft Industries in 1996 (up to that point, Paramount maintained only a programming partnership with UPN with Chris-Craft serving as UPN's sole owner).\nIn the late 1990s, KTXA acquired more first-run syndicated talk and reality shows (such as \"Forgive or Forget\" and \"Ricki Lake\"), while reducing the amount of sitcoms and cartoons on its schedule. Viacom purchased CBS in 2000, making channel 21 a sister station to its former rival KTVT, which CBS had purchased from Gaylord Broadcasting the previous year. KTXA's operations moved from the Paramount Building and were integrated with KTVT at its Bridge Street studios in Fort Worth (both are two of three stations licensed to Fort Worth, the other being NBC-owned KXAS-TV (channel 5)).\n\nFor a brief period in the early 2000s, KTXA served as the \"de facto\" UPN affiliate for the Waco–Killeen–Temple television market when former affiliate KAKW became a Univision owned-and-operated station for both that market and the nearby Austin market. KTXA, KTVT and the other Viacom Television Stations Group properties were spun off to CBS Corporation after National Amusements decided to split Viacom and CBS into separate companies in December 2005.\n\nOn January 24, 2006, the Warner Bros. unit of Time Warner and CBS Corporation announced that the two companies would shut down The WB and UPN and combine the networks' respective programming to create a new \"fifth\" network called The CW. Former WB affiliate KDAF (channel 33) was named as the market's CW affiliate by way of owner Tribune Broadcasting's multi-station deal with the network, and independent station KDFI (channel 27) was named as Dallas's MyNetworkTV station through its ownership by that network's original co-parent, Fox Television Stations. By default, CBS opted to run KTXA as an independent station.\n\nThe station's new branding was announced in two phases, starting with the introduction of the \"TXA 21\" name on May 5, 2006. KTXA then launched a promotional ad campaign called \"\"What Could it Mean?\"\", in which a distinctive star-shaped logo appeared on buildings, sidewalks and billboards around the Metroplex. The new KTXA logo (seen above) was unveiled on July 4. The station's website also revealed that the station planned to begin carrying high school football games from North Texas area teams that fall. KTXA became an independent station on September 16, 2006, the day after UPN ceased operations; this made it the third independent station to be owned by CBS, alongside KCAL-TV in Los Angeles and another former UPN outlet, WSBK-TV in Boston (WSBK later joined MyNetworkTV in September 2011, while CBS purchased independent station WLNY-TV in Riverhead, New York in 2012).\n\nKTXA is the only station among the six that were originally owned by Paramount Stations Group that remains owned by CBS; the others were sold off between 1994 and 2001 and are now owned either by Fox Corporation or the Sinclair Broadcast Group. With KTXA reverting to independent status, the station had automatically gained a competitor in KFWD (channel 52), which had become an English language independent in January 2002 after losing its Telemundo affiliation to newfound O&O KXTX-TV (channel 39); this lasted until August 1, 2012 when channel 52 became an affiliate of the Spanish-language network MundoFox (later MundoMax, now a SonLife Broadcasting Network affiliate). On October 31, 2013, Greenville-licensed KTXD-TV (channel 47) became a full-time independent after dropping its secondary affiliation with classic television network MeTV. As of March 7, 2018, KTXA reverted to become the only general entertainment independent station in the Dallas–Fort Worth market after KTXD was sold to Cunningham Broadcasting, a partner company of Sinclair Broadcast Group, and switched to the affiliate Stadium.\n\nOn August 26, 2013, KTVT/KTXA moved its Dallas business operations to a redeveloped office building at 12001 North Central Expressway (twenty blocks north of the previous Dallas facility at 10111 North Central, near Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital, between Walnut Hill and Meadow Road). The office tower that the stations began occupying—where KTVT's Dallas newsroom and the advertising sales offices for the duopoly occupy the top floor—was renamed CBS Tower. The station's primary studio facilities, and other technical and business operations remain at the Bridge Street facility in east Fort Worth; the former Dallas offices on North Central were purchased by Avial Hotels (the real estate development subsidiary of North Carolina-based Blue Star Hospitality) in November 2015, which intended to redevelop the building as a hotel.\n\nIn the fall of 2016, the station began showing the \"Go Time\" syndicated E/I block.\n\nIn November 2018, KTXA rebranded as \"Texas 21\" with a new interstate shaped logo still utilizing the 'star 21' logo as before.\n\nOn December 4, 2019, CBS Corporation and Viacom remerged into ViacomCBS.\n\nThe station's digital signal is multiplexed:\nOn December 18, 2013, KTXA announced that it would begin carrying MeTV on digital subchannel 21.2; the network moved to 21.2 on December 23, replacing original Dallas affiliate KTXD-TV (which had controversially dropped the network two months earlier); At the time this made KTXA the first television station owned by CBS to carry a major subchannel network (sister stations WCBS-TV in New York City and KYW-TV in Philadelphia were the only other CBS-owned stations that maintained subchannel services, both of which operated as locally programmed news channels).\n\nKTXA began transmitting a digital television signal on UHF channel 18 on October 16, 2000. The station shut down its analog signal, over UHF channel 21, on June 12, 2009, as part of the federally mandated transition from analog to digital television. The station's digital signal remained on its pre-transition UHF channel 18, using PSIP to display KTXA's virtual channel as 21 on digital television receivers. KTXA was granted permission to move its digital signal from channel 18 to channel 19 in response to its 2008 application. However, to accommodate co-owned KTVT's move back to channel 19 on August 4, 2009, KTXA moved back to channel 18. Prior to August 4, KTXA simulcast KTVT's programming on 21.2.\n\nOn September 10, 2009, the FCC issued a \"Report & Order\" approving KTXA's channel change from channel 18 to channel 29. On October 21, 2009, KTXA filed a minor change application for their new channel 29 allotment, which the FCC granted them a construction permit on November 19, 2009. On January 20, 2011, KTXA commenced operations on channel 29, and ceased operations on channel 18 the following day.\n\nSyndicated programs broadcast by KTXA include \"The People's Court\", \"Right This Minute\", \"Hot Bench\", \"Who Wants to Be a Millionaire\" and \"Jeopardy!\" (\"Jeopardy!\" later moved to KTXA on August 12, 2013 to allow sister station KTVT to debut a new 11:00 a.m. newscast).\n\nOccasionally as time permits, KTXA may air CBS network programs whenever KTVT is unable to, such as during the NFL preseason whenever KTVT is scheduled to air a Dallas Cowboys preseason game. KTXA may also interrupt regularly scheduled programming to simulcast live breaking news coverage—including severe weather coverage—whether from KTVT or CBS News.\n\nIn 2011, KTXA became the Dallas-area \"Love Network\" station for the annual \"Jerry Lewis MDA Labor Day Telethon\" for the Muscular Dystrophy Association (KTXA replaced NBC owned-and-operated station KXAS-TV, which dropped the telethon, citing issues regarding its new prime time scheduling format that would require it to preempt evening network programming). The station's first telethon broadcast aired on September 4, 2011, which was also the first year of the telethon's scaled-down six-hour format (airing locally from 6 p.m. to midnight). The telethon aired on the station until 2012, when it was renamed the \"MDA Show of Strength\" and shortened once again to four hours (from 6 to 10 p.m.). The \"Show of Strength\" dropped its syndicated format in 2013, being restructured as a network telecast on ABC.\n\nFrom 2013 to 2017, from Christmas Eve to Christmas night, KTXA aired its own localized version of the annual \"Yule Log\" special, simulcasting Christmas music from then-sister station 98.7 KLUV (formerly owned by CBS Radio until its 2017 acquisition by Entercom).\n\nThe station is the over-the-air broadcast outlet for the NBA's Dallas Mavericks and since 2010, Major League Baseball's Texas Rangers and the NHL's Dallas Stars. KTXA will broadcast 25 Rangers games each season (usually Friday games) through the 2014 season and has aired 17 Dallas Stars games annually since the 2010–11 season (KTXA initially aired Dallas Stars games from 1993–1995); KTXA's Rangers telecasts are produced by Fox Sports Southwest and are syndicated to certain stations in the south-central U.S. (such as KCWX in San Antonio and KSBI in Oklahoma City). KTXA airs FC Dallas matches since 2015.\n\nKTXA also serves as the over-the-air broadcaster of Dallas Cowboys regular season games broadcast by either ESPN or NFL Network, in order to satisfy NFL requirements that games be distributed on a broadcast television station in each team's local market for those who do not have access to those networks. KTXA also carried CBS coverage of the 2010 NCAA Basketball Tournament game between Baylor and Sam Houston State, while KTVT aired North Texas and Kansas State (such arrangements are no longer possible due to the NCAA joint tournament contract with CBS Sports and Turner Sports effective with the 2011 tournament).\n\nKTXA also broadcast college football games from SEC TV (formerly SEC Network), as well as men's basketball games from the Big 12 Network, both of which are operated by ESPN Regional Television. SEC Football broadcasts ended after the 2013–2014 season due to the national launch of the cable-exclusive SEC Network in August 2014 as part of a 20-year agreement between the Southeastern Conference and ESPN.\n\nIn order to replace the SEC football broadcasts due to the SEC Network's national presence, KTXA began broadcasting Atlantic Coast Conference football and basketball from the ACC Network, a Raycom Sports-operated ad hoc syndicated sports package that began syndicating to 84% of all U.S. households, from 2014 to 2019.\n\nOn September 18, 2006, KTVT began producing a nightly primetime newscast for KTXA, titled \"TXA 21 News: First In Prime\", running for two hours from 7:00 to 9:00 p.m. Similar to the format of Los Angeles sister station KCAL-TV's primetime newscasts, the newscasts were originally structured to feature different types of news stories partitioned within the block: the 7:00 p.m. half-hour focused mainly on local news headlines, the 7:30 half-hour focused on state and national news, and the 8:00 p.m. hour focused on general news stories. As the newscast aired during the first two hours of primetime, KTXA did not have any direct competition; but to an extent, the program could have been considered a competitor to the 9:00 p.m. newscasts on KDFW and KDAF. On September 24, 2007, KTVT began broadcasting its local newscasts in high definition; the KTXA newscasts were included in the upgrade.\n\nUntil September 2011, KTXA also carried the syndicated morning news program \"The Daily Buzz\" on weekdays (which later moved to KFWD, then on KDFI before it canceled). KTXA formerly produced local cut-ins featuring local news, weather and entertainment stories that appeared during the program, branded as \"Buzzed into DFW\" and anchored by Christina McLarty (later a correspondent with \"omg! Insider\").\n\nOn September 12, 2011, KTXA reduced the newscast to an hour-long block consisting of a half-hour local newscast at 7:00 p.m. and a half-hour sports program at 7:30 p.m. (syndicated reruns of \"America's Funniest Home Videos\" replaced the 8:00 p.m. hour of the newscast). The evening newscast was cancelled outright on October 31, 2011, while its sports program was expanded and renamed \"The Fan Sports Show\", which continued to be hosted by then-sports director Gina Miller. That would only last for three years with the final broadcast on Thursday, June 5, 2014. On Monday, June 9, \"Inside Edition\" would move into the 6:30 p.m. timeslot, with the Classic Western Hour (starting with reruns of \"Gunsmoke\" and \"Bonanza\" filling in the 7:00-8:00 p.m. hour, and eventually, other programs would fill the 7:00-9:00 p.m. timeslots, including \"\"). Because of this, KTXA is the only CBS-owned independent station without a news/sportscast but still owning rights to air the Texas Rangers, Dallas Stars, and Dallas Mavericks games along with high school and college football coverages.\n\n"}
{"id": "1840387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840387", "title": "Social grooming", "text": "Social grooming\n\nSocial grooming is a behavior in which social animals, including humans, clean or maintain one another's body or appearance. A related term, allogrooming, indicates social grooming between members of the same species. Grooming is a major social activity, and a means by which animals who live in close proximity may bond and reinforce social structures, family links, and build companionships. Social grooming is also used as a means of conflict resolution, maternal behavior and reconciliation in some species. Mutual grooming typically describes the act of grooming between two individuals, often as a part of social grooming, pair bonding, or a precoital activity.\n\nThere are a variety of proposed mechanisms by which social grooming behavior has been hypothesized to increase fitness. These evolutionary advantages may come in the form of health benefits including reduced disease transmission and reduced stress levels, maintaining social structure, and direct improvement of fitness as a measure of survival.\n\nIt is often argued as to whether the overarching importance of social grooming is to boost an organism's health and hygiene or whether the social side of social grooming plays an equally or more important role. Traditionally, it is thought that the primary function of social grooming is the upkeep of an animal's hygiene. Evidence to support this statement involves the fact that allogrooming concentrates on body parts that are inaccessible by autogrooming and that the amount of time spent allogrooming regions did not vary significantly even if the body part had a more important social or communicatory function.\n\nSocial grooming behaviour has been shown to elicit an array of health benefits in a variety of species.  For example, group member connection has the potential to mitigate the potentially harmful effects of stressors. In macaques, social grooming has been proven to reduce heart rate. Social affiliation during a mild stressor was shown to correlate with lower levels of mammary tumor development and longer lifespan in rats, while lack of this affiliation was demonstrated to be a major risk factor. Grooming has also been shown to play an integral role in reducing tick load in wild baboons (\"Papio cynocephalus\"). These ectoparasitic ticks carry the potential to act as vectors for the spreading of disease and infection by common tick-borne parasites such as haemoprotozoan. Baboons with lower tick loads show decreased occurrence of such infections and display signs of greater health status, evidenced by higher hematocrit (packed red cell volume) levels.\n\nOn the other hand, it could be argued that the hygienic aspect to allogrooming does not play an as important role as the social aspect to it. Observational studies performed on 44 different primate species suggest that the number of times a species allogrooms, on average, correlates with its group size rather than with its body size. If allogrooming was purely required from a hygienic standpoint, then the larger an animal, the more and more often it would be groomed by members of its group. However, we see instead that when group size increases, members ensure that they spend an appropriate amount of time grooming everyone. Hence, the fact that animals, particularly primates here, groom each other more frequently than necessary from a hygienic standpoint suggests that the social angle of allogrooming plays an equally, if not more, important role. Another point of evidence for the importance of the social aspect is that in comparison to how much and how a primate grooms itself (autogrooming), allogrooming involved longer periods of time and different techniques, some of which have connotations of being affectionate gestures.\n\nOne of the most critical functions of social grooming is to establish social networks and relationships. In many species, individuals form close social connections dubbed “friendships” due to long durations spent together doing activities. In primates especially, grooming is known to have major social significance and function in the formation and maintenance of these friendships. Studies performed on rhesus monkeys showed that fMRI scans of the monkeys' brains lit up more significantly at the perirhinial cortex (associated with recognition and memory) and the temporal pole (associated with social and emotional processing/analysis) when the monkeys were shown pictures of their friends' faces as compared to less familiar faces. Hence, primates recognize familiar and well-liked individuals ('friends') and spend more time grooming them as compared to less favoured partners. In species with a more tolerant social style, such as Barbary macaques, it is seen that females choose their grooming mates based on whom they know better rather than on social rank. In addition to primates, animals such as deer, cows, horses, vole, mice, meerkats, coati, lions, birds, bats also form social bonds through grooming behaviour.\n\nSocial grooming may also serve to establish and recognize mates or amorous partners. For example, in short-nosed fruit bats, the females initiate grooming with the males just before flight at dusk. The male and his close-knit female harem apply bodily secretions on each other, which could possibly allow them to recognize the female's reproductive status. The 2016 study by Kumar et al. chemically analyzed these secretions, revealing that they may be required in chemosensory mediated communication and mate choice. Similarly, in the less aggressive herb-field mice species, males are observed to groom females for longer durations and even allow females to not reciprocate. Since the mating demands of males are greater than those of offered by females, the females use social grooming as a method to choose mates and males use it to incite mating.\n\nFinally, kin selection is not as important a factor as friendship or mate preference when choosing a grooming mate as previously thought. In the 2018 Phelps et al. captive study on chimpanzees, it was seen that the animals remembered interactions that were 'successful' or 'unsuccessful' and used that as a basis to choose grooming mates; they chose grooming mates based on who would reciprocate rather than who would not. More importantly, if the delay between two chimpanzees grooming each other is very little, then the chimpanzees tend to 'time match', i.e. the second groomer grooms the first for the same amount of time that he/she was groomed. This 'episodic memory' requires a demanding amount of cognitive function and emotional recognition, and has been tested experimentally with respect to food preferences, where apes chose between tasty perishable and non-tasty non-perishable food at shorter and longer delays respectively after trying the food. Hence, apes can distinguish between different events that occurred at different times.\n\nIn general, social grooming is an activity that is directed up hierarchy, i.e. a lower ranking individual grooms a higher ranking individual in the group. In meerkats, social grooming has been shown to carry the role of maintaining relationships that increase fitness. In this system, researchers have observed that dominant males receive more grooming while grooming others less, thereby indicating that less dominant males groom more dominant individuals to maintain relationships. In a study conducted on rhesus monkeys, it was seen that more dominant group members were 'stroked' more than they were 'picked at' when getting groomed, as compared to lower ranking group members. From a utilitarian standpoint, stroking is a less effective technique for grooming than picking, but it is construed as being a more affectionate gesture. Hence, grooming a higher ranking individual could be conducted in order to placate a potential aggressor and reduce tension. Moreover, individuals closer in rank tend to groom each other reciprocally than individuals further apart in rank.\n\nGrooming networks in black crested gibbons have been proven to contribute greater social cohesion and stability. Groups of gibbons with more stable social networks formed grooming networks that were significantly more complex, while groups with low stability networks formed far fewer grooming pairs.\n\nGrooming is often offered by an individual in exchange for a certain behavioural response or action. Social grooming is critical for vampire bats especially, since it is necessary for them to maintain food-sharing relationships in order to sustain their food regurgitation sharing behaviour. In Tibetan macaques, infants are seen as a valuable commodity that can be exchanged for favours; mothers allow non-mothers to handle their infants for short durations in exchange for being groomed. Tibetan macaques measure and perceive the value of the infants by noting the relative ratio of infants in the group; as the number of infants increase, their 'value' decreases and the amount of grooming in exchange for infant-handling performed by non-mothers for mothers decreases.\n\nIn male bonobos, it is suggested that grooming is exchanged in favour of some emotional component because grooming familiar individuals involves larger time differences (i.e. the duration for which each individual grooms the other is not equal) and reduced reciprocity (i.e. likelihood of grooming the other is unpredictable). Hence, the presence of some sort of social bond between individuals results in greater 'generosity' and tolerance between them.\n\nSocial grooming relationships have been proven to provide direct fitness benefits to a variety of species. In particular, grooming in yellow baboons (\"Papio cynocephalus\") has been studied extensively, with numerous studies showing an increase in fitness as a result of social bonds formed through social grooming behavior. One such study, which collected 16 years of behavioral data on wild baboons, highlights the effects that sociality has on infant survival. A positive relationship is established between infant survival to one year and a composite sociality index, a measure of sociality based on proximity and social grooming. Evidence has also been provided for the effect of sociality on adult survival in wild baboons. Direct correlations between measures of social connectedness (which focuses on social grooming) and median survival time for both female and male baboons were modeled. \nSocial bonds established by grooming may provide an adaptive advantage in the form of conflict resolution and protection from aggression. In wild savannah baboons, social affiliations are shown to augment fitness by increasing tolerance from more dominant group members and increasing the chance of obtaining aid from conspecifics during instances of within-group contest interactions. In the yellow baboon, adult females form relationships with their kin, who offer support during times of violent conflict within social groups. In Barbary macaques\",\" social grooming results in the formation of crucial relationships among partners. These social relationships serve to aid cooperation and facilitate protection against combative groups composed of other males, which can oftentimes cause physical harm. Furthermore, social relationships have also been proven to decrease risk of infanticide in several primates.\n\nAltruism, in the biological sense, refers to a behavior performed by an individual that increases the fitness of another individual while decreasing the fitness of the one performing the behavior. This differs from the philosophical concept of altruism which requires the conscious intention of helping another. As a behavior, altruism is not evaluated in moral terms, but rather as a consequence of an action for reproductive fitness. It is often questioned why the behavior persists if it is costly to the one performing it, however, Charles Darwin proposed group selection as the mechanism behind the clear advantages of altruism.\n\nSocial grooming is considered a behavior of facultative altruism- the behavior itself is a temporary loss of direct fitness (with potential for indirect fitness gain), followed by personal reproduction. This tradeoff has been compared to the Prisoner's Dilemma model, and out of this comparison came Robert Trivers reciprocal altruism theory under the title \"tit-for-tat\". In conjunction with altruism, kin selection bears an emphasis on favoring the reproductive success of an organism's relatives, even at a cost to the organism's own survival and reproduction. Because of this, kin selection is an instance of inclusive fitness, which combines the number of offspring produced with the number an individual can ensure the production of by supporting others, such as siblings.\n\nformula_1\n\nDeveloped by W.D. Hamilton, this rule governs the idea that kin selection causes genes to increase in frequency when the genetic relatedness (r) of a recipient to an actor multiplied by the benefit to the recipient (B) is greater than the reproductive cost to the actor (C). Thus, it is advantageous for an individual to partake in altruistic behaviors, such as social grooming, so long as the individual receiving the benefits of the behavior is related to the one providing the behavior.\n\nIt was questioned whether some animals are instead using altruistic behaviors as a market strategy to trade for something desirable. In olive baboons, \"Papio anubis,\" it has been found that individuals perform altruistic behaviors as a form of trade in which a behavior is provided in exchange for benefits, such as reduced aggression. The grooming was evenly balanced across multiple bouts rather than single bouts, suggesting that females are not constrained to complete exchanges with single transactions and use social grooming to solidify long term relationships with those in their social group.\n\nIn addition, white-handed gibbons (\"Hylobates lar)\" confirmed that males were more attentive to social grooming during estrus of the females in their group. Though the behavior of social grooming itself was not beneficial to the one providing the service, the opportunity to mate and subsequent fertilization increases the reproductive fitness of those participating in the behavior. This study was also successful in finding that social grooming performance cycled with that of the females ovarian cycle.\n\nIn most cases, allogrooming is an action that is learned from an individual's mother. Infants are groomed by their mothers and mimic these actions on each other and the mother as juveniles. This action is reciprocated on other group members (non-mother or of a different rank) more often once the individual is a fully developed adult and can follow normal grooming patterns.\n\nMale and female members of a species may differ in learning how, when and whom to groom. In stump-tailed macaques, infant females mimic their mothers' actions by grooming their mothers more often than their males counterparts do and by grooming the same group members that their mothers groom. This mimicry is suggested to indicate identification-based observational learning in infant stump-tailed macaques, and the daughters' penchants for maternal mimicry and kin-biased grooming versus the sons' penchants for rank-biased grooming falls in line with their social roles in groups, where adult males require alliances in order to gain and maintain rank.\n\nIn nearly all instances of social grooming, individuals use their own body parts, such as hands, teeth or tongue, to groom a group member or infant. It is very rare to observe instances of tool usage in social grooming in non-human animals; however, a few such instances have been observed in primates. In a 1981 observational study of Japanese macaques at Bucknell University, a mother macaque was seen to choose a stone after observing several stones on the ground and then use this stone to groom her infant. It was hypothesized that the stone was used as a distractor for the infant so that the mother could adequately clean her infant while his attention was occupied elsewhere. This was supported by the fact that the infant picked up the stone once the mother dropped it and allowed her to groom him while he played with it. This action was seen in a few other members in the colony, but was not seen throughout the species at all. At another instance, a female chimpanzee at the Delta Regional Primate Research Center created a 'toothbrush' by stripping a twig of its leaves and used this toothbrush to groom her infant over several instances. However, both examples concern tool use in primates, which is already widely studied and scientifically backed. The wide working memory capacities and causal understanding capabilities of primates permit them to fashion and utilize tools far more extensively than other non-human animals. Apart from physical and mental constraints, perhaps a reason allogrooming animals do not use tools is because a major purpose of social grooming is social bonding and involves emotional exchanges, much of which is conveyed by touch.\n\nMany animals groom each other in the form of stroking, scratching, and massaging. This activity often serves to remove foreign material from the body to promote the communal success of these socially active animals. There exists a wide array of socially grooming animals throughout the kingdom, including primates, insects, birds, and bats. While thorough research has still yet to be engaged, much has been learned about social grooming in non-human animals via the study of primates. The driving force behind mammal social grooming is primarily believed to be rooted in adaptation to consolatory behavior as well as utilitarian purposes in the exchange of resources such as food, sex, and communal hygiene.\n\nIn insects, grooming often involves the important role of removing foreign material from the body. The honey bee, for example, engages in social grooming by cleaning body parts that cannot be reached by the receiving bee. The receiving bee extends their wings perpendicular to their body while their wings, mouth parts, and antennae are cleaned in order to remove dust and pollen. This removal of dust and pollen allows for sharpening of olfactory senses in contributing to the overall well being of the group.\n\nRecent studies have determined that vampire bats engage in social grooming much more than other types of bats to promote the well-being of the group. Facing higher levels of parasitic infection, vampire bats engage in cleaning one another as well as sharing food via regurgitation. This activity prevents ongoing infection while also promoting group success.\n\nPrimates provide perhaps one of the best examples of mutual grooming due to the intensive research performed regarding their varying lifestyles, and the direct variation of means of social grooming across different species. Among primates, social grooming plays a significant role in animal consolation behavior whereby the primates engage in establishing and maintaining alliances through dominance hierarchies, pre-existing coalitions, and for reconciliation after conflicts. Primates groom socially in moments of boredom as well, and the act has been shown to reduce tension and stress. This reduction in stress is often associated with observed periods of relaxed behavior, and primates have been known to fall asleep while receiving grooming. Conflict among primates has been observed by researchers as increasing stress among the group, making mutual grooming very advantageous.\n\nThere are benefits to initiating grooming. The one that starts the grooming will in return be groomed themselves, getting the benefit of being cleaned. Research has found that primates that are lower on the social ladder may initiate grooming with a higher ranked primate in order to increase their position. Under times of higher conflict and competition, it has been found that this is less likely to occur. Researchers have suggested that primates may see a need to balance the uses of grooming, swapping between its use a means to increase social standing and the use of grooming to keep oneself clean.\n\nGrooming in primates is not only utilized for alliance formation and maintenance, but to exchange resources such as communal food, sex, and hygiene. Wild baboons have been found to utilize social grooming as an activity to remove ticks and other insects from others. In this grooming, the body areas receiving significant attention appear to be the regions where the baboons themselves cannot reach. Grooming activity in these regions is used to remove parasites, dirt, dead skin, as well as tangled fur to help keep the animal's health in good condition despite an individual inability to reach and clean certain areas.\n\nTime primates spend grooming increases with group size, but too large of group sizes can lead to decreased group cohesion because time spent grooming is usually impacted by other factors. Consequently, some of these aspects that affect time spent grooming include ecological, phylogenetic, and life history. For example, the article states, “Cognitive constraints and predation pressure strongly affect group sizes and thereby have an indirect effect on primate grooming time.” By analyzing past data and studies done about this topic, the authors found that a primate group greater than 40 will face greater ecological problems and, thus, time spent during social grooming is affected.\n\nRecent studies regarding chimpanzees have determined the direct correlation of the release of oxytocin to consolatory behavior. This behavior as well as release has been noted in primates such as the Vervet monkey, a primate species that actively engages in social grooming from early childhood to adulthood. Vervet monkey siblings often have conflict over grooming allocation by their mother, yet, grooming remains an activity that mediates tension and is low cost for alliance formation and maintenance. This grooming occurs both between the siblings as well as involving the mother.\n\nRecent studies regarding the crab-eating macaques have shown that males will groom females in order to procure sex. One study found that a female has a greater likelihood to engage in sexual activity with a male if he had recently groomed her, compared to males who had not groomed her.\n\nBirds engage in allopreening. Researchers believe that this practices builds pair bonds. In 2010, researchers determined the existence of a form of social grooming as a consolation behavior within ravens via a form of bystander contact, whereby observer ravens would act to console a distressed victim via contact sitting, preening, as well as beak-to-beak touching.\n\nHorses engage in mutual grooming via the formation of 'pair bonds' where parasites and other contaminants on the surface of the body are actively removed. This removal of foreign material is primarily performed in hard-to-reach areas such as the neck via nibbling.\n\nAllogrooming is a behavior commonly seen in many types of cattle, including dairy and beef breeds. The act of social licking can be seen specifically in heifers to initiate social dominance, emphasize companionship and improve hygiene of oneself or others. This behavior seen in cows may provide advantages including reduced parasite loads, social tension and competition at the feed bunk. It is understood that social licking can provide long term benefits such as promoting positive emotions and a relaxed environment.\n\nSocial grooming has shown to be correlated with changes in endocrine levels within individuals. Specifically, there is a large correlation between the brain's release of oxytocin and social grooming. Oxytocin is hypothesized to promote prosocial behaviors due to its positive emotional response when released. Further, social grooming also releases beta-endorphins which promote physiological responses in stress reduction. These responses can occur from the production of hormones and endorphins, or through the growth or reduction in nerve structures. For example, in studies of suckling rats, rats who received warmth and touch when feeding had lower blood pressure levels than rats who did not receive any touch. This was found to be a result of an increased vagal nerve tone, meaning they had had higher parasympathetic nervous response and lower sympathetic nervous response to stimulus, resulting in a lower stress response. Social grooming is a form of innocuous sensory activation. Innocuous sensory activation, characterized by non aggressive contact, stimulates an entirely separate neural pathway from nocuous aggressive sensory activation. Innocuous sensations are transmitted through the dorsal column-medial lemniscal system.\n\nOxytocin is a peptide hormone known to help express social emotions such as altruism, which in turn provides a positive feedback mechanism for social behaviors. For example, studies in vampire bats have shown that intranasal injections of oxytocin have increased the amount of allogrooming done by female bats. The release of oxytocin, found to be stimulated by positive touch (such as allogrooming), positive smells and sounds, can have physiological benefits to the individual. Benefits can include: relaxation, healing, and digestion stimulation. Further, reproductive benefits have been found such as studies in rats have shown that the release of oxytocin can increase male reproductive success. The role of oxytocin is important in maternal pair bonding, and is hypothesized to promote similar bonding in social groups as a result of positive feedback loops from social interactions.\n\nGrooming stimulates the release of beta-endorphin, which is one physiological reason for why grooming appears to be relaxing. Beta-endorphins are found in neurons in the hypothalamus and the pituitary gland. Beta-endorphins are found to be opioid agonists. Opioids are molecules that act on receptors to promote feelings of relaxation, and reduce pain. A study in monkeys shows the changes in opiate expression in the body, mirroring changes in beta-endorphin levels, influences desire for social grooming. In using opiate receptor blockades, which decrease the level of beta-endorphins, the monkeys responded with an increased desire to be groomed. In contrast, when the monkeys were given morphine, the desire to be groomed dropped significantly. Beta- endorphins have been difficult to measure in animal species, differently from oxytocin which can be measured by sampling cerebrospinal fluid, and therefore have not been linked as strongly with social behaviors.\n\nGlucocorticoids are steroid hormones that are synthesized in the adrenal cortex and are a part of the group of corticosteroids. Glucocorticoids are involved in immune function, and are a part of the feedback system that reduces inflammation. Further, glucocorticoids are involved in glucose metabolism. Studies in macaques have shown that increased social stress results in glucocorticoid resistance, further inhibiting immune function. Macaques who participated in social grooming showed decreased levels of viral load, which points toward decreased levels of social stress resulting in increased immune function and glucocorticoid sensitivity. Additionally, an article published in 1997 concluded that an increase in maternal grooming resulted in a proportionate increase in Glucocorticoid receptors on target tissue in the neonatal rat. In the study on neonatal rats, it was found that the receptor number was altered because of a change in both serotonin and thyroid-stimulating hormone concentrations. An increase in the number of receptors might influence the amount of negative feedback on corticosteroid secretion and prevent the undesirable side effects of an abnormal physiologic stress response. Social grooming can change the number of glucocorticoid receptors, which can result in increased immune function.\n\nStudies have also shown that male baboons who participate more in social grooming show lower basal cortisol concentrations.\n\nFaecal glucocorticoid (fGCs) is a hormone metabolite associated with stress that is seen to be present in lower levels in female baboons with stronger, well-established grooming networks. When potentially infanticidal male baboons immigrate into a group, the females' fGC levels are seen to rise, indicative of higher stress; however, females with reliable and well-established grooming partners have less of a fGC rise than those with weaker grooming networks. Hence, the social support received from a 'friendship' aids baboons in stress management. Similarly, fGC levels are also seen to rise in females when a close 'friend' dies; however, these rising fGC levels are seen to decrease in females that form new grooming partners, replacing their deceased friends.\n\nEndogenous opioids are chemical molecules produced in the brains of organisms and serve to create feelings of relaxation, happiness and pain relief. In primates, laughter and social grooming trigger opioid release in the brain, which is thought to form and maintain social bonds. In a study performed on rhesus monkeys, lactating females with 4-10 week old infants were given low doses of naloxone, an opioid antagonist that blocks the opioid receptor and inhibits the effects of endogenous opioids. In comparison to the control females, who were given saline solutions, the naloxone females groomed their infants and other members of their group less. The naloxone females were also observed to be less protective of their young, which is uncharacteristic of new mothers. This decline in social interactions upon naloxone injection suggests that opioid antagonists interfere with maternal involvement in social actions - here, social grooming. We could hypothesize therefore that higher levels of opioids in new rhesus mothers cause increased levels of social involvement and 'maternal' characteristics, aiding the development and learning of the newborn.\n\nAbove all, the main criticism regarding studies concerning social grooming is that almost all of them focus on primates and a narrow range of species within primates themselves. This, therefore, does not give us a well-rounded idea of what the cognitive or behavioural basis for social grooming is, nor does it completely outline all the effects (benefits or costs) of it. Moreover, we may not have all the relevant data concerning social grooming even in a well-studied species. Secondly, data for most species is derived based on the members of a single group. In primates, whose behaviour is highly flexible depending on the socio-environmental conditions, this poses as a particular challenge. Thirdly, most studies are observational and short-termed. Hence the direct link between social grooming and fitness or mate choice outcomes cannot be studied directly as in long-term direct or captive studies\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1840404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840404", "title": "Überherrn", "text": "Überherrn\n\nÜberherrn is a municipality in the district of Saarlouis, in Saarland, Germany. It is situated along the river Bist on the border with France, approx. southwest of Saarlouis, and west of Saarbrücken. It has 12,150 inhabitants. At the part Felsberg-Berus, there is the Longwave transmitter Europe 1.\n"}
{"id": "1840409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840409", "title": "Holly Palmer", "text": "Holly Palmer\n\nHolly Palmer (born c. 1971) is an American singer-songwriter based in Los Angeles, California. She has released five albums as a solo artist, and has toured extensively as a vocalist with acts including David Bowie and Gnarls Barkley. She is also the \"Cheesecake\" partner in Bubbles & Cheesecake, an Internet-based, multi-media collaboration with multi-disciplinary artist Allee Willis. Other musicians with whom she has collaborated include David Bowie, Paula Cole, Dr. Dre, Billy Preston, Dave Navarro and Michael Bublé, among others.\n\nPalmer was born in Santa Monica, California in 1970, and grew up primarily in Redmond, Washington, near Seattle. Her Finnish-born mother, who worked for an airline, was the breadwinner in their unorthodox household. Her father was a writer who sang songs by the Beatles, Rolling Stones, Neil Young and Bob Dylan around the house.\n\nGrowing up, Palmer played the family piano whenever possible, and played the flute in a school music ensemble. In the eighth grade, she switched to the saxophone so that she could sing with the school's jazz band. She soon began singing standards with the group, and became inspired by jazz singer Sarah Vaughan, whose innovative interpretations would make an enormous mark on Palmer's style. After high school, Palmer attended Pacific Lutheran University in Tacoma, Washington before making her way to Boston, Massachusetts to stay with a friend. She attended and graduated from Berklee College of Music.\n\nPalmer started playing live gigs during the period she lived in Boston. She particularly enjoyed stripped-down shows at small clubs, and she still loves intimate engagements offering the opportunity for spontaneous chemistry with the audience. Also during her time in Boston, Palmer began to seriously delve into songwriting, and landed a demo deal with Island Records.\n\nPalmer relocated to New York City (where she still performs regularly) in the mid-'90s. She recorded her self-titled 1996 debut album \"Holly Palmer\", produced by Kenny White, which came out on Reprise Records, a Warner Bros. Records-affiliated label, and met with a positive response from critics, and featured contributions from Bill Frisell and John Leventhal. Surrounding its release, Holly toured the U.S. and Europe opening for artists including k.d. lang, Shawn Colvin and Paula Cole. In 1998, Holly went to London and began recording what was intended to be her second disc for the label, \"Tender Hooks\", with producer Howie B, who has also produced albums with U2, Björk, and Robbie Robertson. She finished the album back in NYC with David Kahne (Regina Spektor, Sublime, The Bangles) producing two tracks. She amicably parted ways with Reprise, though, and the album remained unreleased for the time being.\n\nIn 1999, David Bowie invited Palmer to sing background vocals on his album \"Hours\"; she was featured on the album-opening track \"Thursday's Child.\" Palmer subsequently toured worldwide with Bowie and his band as a vocalist and percussionist throughout 1999–2000.\n\nAfter completing the Bowie tour in 2000, Palmer settled in Los Angeles, where her music publisher Marla McNally introduced her to Grammy-winning, Emmy and Tony-nominated composer Allee Willis (whose songwriting credits include Earth Wind & Fire's \"Boogie Wonderland\" and \"September\", Broadway's \"The Color Purple\", \"I'll Be There for You (Theme from \"Friends\")\", etc.). They began a songwriting collaboration, at the time primarily focused on songs for what would be Palmer's next solo album, \"I Confess\". Palmer made a new deal with Tom Whalley and Jeff Ayeroff, the new heads of Warner Bros. for the album's release but, after completing the album, once again, she and the label saw things differently and went their separate ways. This time, Palmer was able to take the masters for both \"Tender Hooks\" and \"I Confess\" with her.\n\n\"I Confess\" album highlights included the single \"Just So You Know\", a Don Was-produced cover of the Holland-Dozier-Holland classic \"You Keep Me Hangin' On\" and Dr. Dre's mix of \"Jumping Jack\". Late, great keyboardist Billy Preston was spotlighted on the track \"Down So Low\", also featuring Joachim Cooder on drums. Holly launched her own label imprint, Bombshell Records, and independently released both \"I Confess\" and \"Tender Hooks\" on it in 2004.\n\nDuring this time, Palmer also recorded \"Down with Love\", a duet with Canadian pop star Michael Bublé that was the title song for a film starring Renée Zellweger and Ewan McGregor. She was invited into the studio by hip-hop impresario Dr. Dre to record a duet with Mike Elizondo, which has yet to be released. She continued writing material for her next solo album, \"Songs For Tuesday\", as well. Palmer spent most of 2006 on the road as a vocalist with the Gnarls Barkley live band, touring the world in support of their Grammy-winning debut album \"St. Elsewhere\".\n\nAt the end of 2006, Palmer returned to Los Angeles to recommence her songwriting partnership with Willis. They originally intended to compose songs for the follow-up to \"Songs For Tuesday\", but instead were inspired to write, perform, and record in full collaboration under the name Bubbles & Cheesecake. The name refers to Willis and Palmer's respective \"alter-egos,\" and their first official single and video as Bubbles & Cheesecake, \"It's a Woman Thang\", was introduced with the launch of their interactive multi-media website in October 2007. The Willis and Palmer/Bubbles & Cheesecake collaboration encompasses hand-made music, videos, art work, animation, merchandise, online characters, stories, games, all embedded into a social networking initiative.\n\n2007 also marked the release \"Songs For Tuesday\" on Bombshell Records. Palmer's fourth solo album, it was recorded live in front of an audience in a Los Angeles recording studio over the course of two days in September 2005. Among its highlights is the Willis-Palmer co-write \"Girl in Lust\", which, like \"I Confess\" from Holly's previous album, was later also recorded and performed by Bubbles & Cheesecake.\n\nPalmer co-produced \"Songs For Tuesday\" with Joey Waronker (Beck, R.E.M.) – featured on drums – and Justin Meldal-Johnsen (Beck, Macy Gray, Ima Robot), the disc's bassist. The line-up also includes keyboardist Roger Manning (Jellyfish, Beck) and guitarist Lyle Workman (Beck, Todd Rundgren, Sting). Other song highlights include the bluesy \"I Love You More Than You'll Ever Know\", the pop/R&B-flavored \"I Will\" (also featured in the 2005 Jessica Alba film \"Into The Blue\"), \"Your Love Is Gonna Kill Me\" and \"That's Why They Call It Rome\", for which Palmer has also created a video.\n\nPalmer has contributed to a number of other recordings including singing background vocals on Dave Navarro's album \"Trust No One\", writing and performing with Dobie on the track \"I'll Be Your Everything\" from the electronica compilation \"Burntprogress 1.1\", and doing vocals and percussion on the disc 3 live set of David Bowie's \"Bowie at the Beeb\". Her cover of the Bob Dylan song \"All I Really Wanna Do\" was included on the \"Party Of Five\" soundtrack ('96), and her compositions can also be heard in films including \"According to Spencer\" (\"Something Else\"), \"Forces of Nature\" (\"A Rose By Any Other Name\") and \"The Price of Kissing\" (\"Scandinavian Ladies\").\n\nPalmer co-wrote the theme song to 2013 television series \"Mob City\" with Mark Isham entitled \"Hello Again\" and performed it.\n\nShe sang background vocals and played acoustic guitar for Broadway star Idina Menzel (\"Wicked\", \"Rent\") on her I Stand Tour.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1840413", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840413", "title": "G. T. Foulis", "text": "G. T. Foulis\n\nPublishers G. T. Foulis specialised in motor sport books and are now part of the Haynes Publishing Group who produce vehicle workshop manuals Haynes Manuals.\n\nThe firm originated with the Edinburgh publisher, T. N. Foulis, which was founded in 1903 by Thomas Noble Foulis and Douglas A. Foulis, incorporating the earlier firm of Douglas & Foulis. T. N. Foulis ceased in 1924, and was taken over by the Henley printer G. T. Marshall, and traded as G. T. Foulis & Co. Ltd., based in London. It initially seems to have been general book publishers, but soon specialised in books about transport. \n"}
{"id": "1840414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840414", "title": "Arkansas literature", "text": "Arkansas literature\n\nArkansas literature has an emerging consciousness, though it still lags behind other Southern states such as Mississippi and Georgia in the promotion of its literary culture. University of Arkansas Press is probably the state's largest publisher of books, though there do exist some notable small presses in the state: August House, Rose Publishing Group, and Chenault and Gray. The University of Arkansas's M.F.A. program has graduated a number of notable writers, including Lewis Nordan, John Dufresne, Steve Yarbrough, and more. In 2004, the state held the first annual Arkansas Literary Festival in Little Rock, attracting famous writers from around the nation. The Porter Prize is the state's most prestigious literary award.\n\nSee also: Southern literature\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1840424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840424", "title": "Modern Fix", "text": "Modern Fix\n\nModern Fix was a monthly music and culture magazine that was published bi-monthly by Drone Inc. The magazine was in circulation between 2000 and 2008. Its main focus was music-based, in addition to videogame coverage, comedian interviews (David Cross, Lewis Black, etc.) and comics (Too Much Coffee Man).\n\nThe bands Thursday (band), Thrice and The Unicorns received their first cover feature in \"Modern Fix\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1840433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840433", "title": "Six-day racing", "text": "Six-day racing\n\nSix-day cycling is a track cycling event that competes over six days. Six-day races started in Britain, spread to many regions of the world, were brought to their modern style in the United States and are now mainly a European event. Initially, individuals competed alone, the winner being the individual who completed the most laps. However, the format was changed to allow teams (usually of two riders each), one rider racing while the other rested. The 24-hours a day regime has also been relaxed, so that most six-day races involve six nights of racing, typically from 6pm to 2am, on indoor tracks (velodromes). Six-day events are annually hosted in London, Berlin, Copenhagen, Hong Kong, Manchester, Melbourne and Brisbane.\n\nThe overall winner is the team which completes most laps. In the event of teams completing the same number of laps, the winner is the team with most points won in intermediate competitions (see points race). As well as the 'chase' to gain laps over competitors, a typical six-day programme will include time trials, motor-paced, intermediate sprint and elimination races. In the main 'chase' or madison events (so-called after Madison Square Garden in New York City, where the two-man format was devised), both riders may be on the track at the same time, taking it in turns to race, hand-slinging each other back into action.\n\nThe first six-day event was an individual time trial at the Agricultural Hall in Islington, London, in 1878, when a professional called David Stanton sought a bet that he could ride 1,000 miles in six successive days, riding 18 hours a day. A Mr Davis put up £100 and the stake was held by the \"Sporting Life\" newspaper. Stanton started at 6am on 25 February and won the bet in 73 hours, riding on a high-wheeled machine at an average speed of 13.5 mph.\n\nSix-day cycle races involving more than one rider grew out of the 19th-century enthusiasm for endurance and other novelty competitions. A promoter at the Agricultural Hall held a six-day walking contest in April 1877. It was enough of a success for another to be held the following year. That inspired another organiser, name no longer known, to organise a six-day race in the same hall but for cyclists, also in 1878. He hoped to attract the crowd of 20,000 a day that had turned out for the walkers.\n\nThe \"Islington Gazette\" reported:\n\"A bicycle contest was commenced at the Agricultural Hall, on Monday last, for which £150 is offered in prizes for a six days' competition, the money to be allocated thus: £100 for the first man, £25 for the second, £15 for the third, and £10 for the fourth.\"\n\nThe race started at 6am with only four of the 12 entrants on the track. Although it is often said that the first six-day was a non-stop, no-sleeping event that ran without pause for six days, in fact riders joined in when they chose and slept as they wished.\n\nThe winner was Bill Cann, of Sheffield, who led from the start and finished after 1,060 miles.\n\nHowever, the event did not become popular until 1891, when the first Six Days of New York were held in New York's Madison Square Garden. Initially, these races were contests of raw endurance, with a single rider completing as many laps as possible. At first, races were less than 24 hours a day. Riders slept at night and were free to join in the morning when they chose. Faster riders would start later than the slower ones, who would sacrifice sleep to make up for lack of pace. Quickly, riders began competing 24 hours a day, limited only by their ability to stay awake. Many employed seconds, as in boxing, to keep them going. The seconds, known by their French name, \"soigneurs\", were said to have used doping to keep their riders circling the track. Riders became desperately tired. The \"Brooklyn Daily Eagle\" said:\n\nThe wear and tear upon their nerves and their muscles, and the loss of sleep make them [peevish and fretful]. If their desires are not met with on the moment, they break forth with a stream of abuse. Nothing pleases them. These outbreaks do not trouble the trainers with experience, for they understand the condition the men are in.\n\nThe condition included delusions and hallucinations. Riders wobbled and fell. But they were often well paid, especially since more people came to watch as their condition worsened. Promoters in New York paid Teddy Hale $5,000 when he won in 1896 and he won \"like a ghost, his face as white as a corpse, his eyes no longer visible because they'd retreated into his skull,\" according to one report. \"The New York Times\" said in 1897:\n\nIt is a fine thing that a man astride two wheels can, in a six-day race, distance a hound, horse, or a locomotive. It confirms the assumption, no longer much contested, that the human animal is superior to the other animals. But this undisputed thing is being said in too solemn and painful way at Madison Square Garden. An athletic contest in which participants 'go queer' in their heads, and strain their powers until their faces become hideous with the tortures that rack them, is not sport. It is brutality. Days and weeks of recuperation will be needed to put the Garden racers in condition, and it is likely that some of them will never recover from the strain.\n\nSix-day racing remained popular in the US, even though the states of New York and Illinois led in 1898 in limiting races to 12 of 24 hours. The intention was to allow riders to rest half the day, but promoters realised that teams of two, with only one rider on the track at a time, would give each the 12 hours' rest the law intended while still allowing the race to go around the clock. Races lasted six days rather than a week to avoid racing on Sunday. Speeds rose, distances grew, crowds increased, money poured in. Where Charlie Miller rode 2,088 miles alone, Alf Goullet and a decent partner could ride 2,790. The first such race was at Madison Square Garden and two-man tag racing has become known in English as a madison and to the French as \"l'américaine\".\n\nIn the main 'chase' or madison sessions, both riders may be on the track at the same time, taking it in turns to race, hand-slinging each other back into action. The non-racing rider will circle the track slowly at the top of the banking until 'slung' back into the race. The hand-sling is an advanced skill that, in some countries, is only allowed for professional riders. The racing rider may also propel a teammate into the race by pushing the seat of the rider's racing shorts.\n\nThe historian Raymond Dickow said of riders in the post-1898 races:\nThe highest paid was Alfred Goullet of Australia. He earned $1,000 a day in addition to cash prizes won during sprints. Top riders like Bobby Walthour, US; Franco Giorgetti, Italy; Gérard Debaets, Belgium; and Alfred Letourneur, France, were making from $500 to $750 a day. Amateurs who had just turned pro, and still had to prove their worth, were paid the beginners' rate of $100 a day.\nSixes attracted enthusiasts and celebrities. Knute Rockne, George Raft, Barbara Stanwyck, and Otto Kruger were fans. Kruger used to invite riders home. Bing Crosby – whose presence at a track guaranteed he would be met by song-publishers' touts offering him music – was said to pay the hospital bills of riders who fell. The actress Peggy Joyce – her wealth was such that Cole Porter wrote a lyric that said \"My string of Rolls-Royces, is longer than Peggy Joyce's\" – gave regular $200 bonus prizes, or primes. She was so delighted when a band in the track centre played \"Pretty Peggy with eyes of Blue\" that she put up $1,000.\n\nRacing was at its hardest when the stands were full. Riders took it easy when they were empty and circled the track reading newspapers, talking, even writing letters as they pedalled with one foot, the other steering the handlebars. But sometimes a team would attack when things were quiet. Jimmy Walthour remembered one such night in 1933:\n\nSix-day racing was popular in the United States until the Second World War. Then the rise of the automobile and the Great Depression brought a decline. Dickow said: \"Attempts were made to revive the sport by several different promoters but none of them managed to restore bike racing to its former popularity.\" A further problem was that the more promoters brought in European opposition to spice up races for a potential crowd, the more the Europeans dominated and lessened the appeal for spectators. Jerry Rodman, one of the American riders, said: \"In previous years, six-day bicycle racing faded only as a result of war or depression. Under the promotion of Harry Mendel, however, the sport, for the first time began to decline due to lack of spectator interest.\"\n\nAnnual sixes in Boston were discontinued in 1933, Detroit in 1936, and Chicago in 1948. The Six Days of New York hung on until 1950. There were some revivals but none succeeded. \"Sporting Cyclist\" published a picture of the last night of the Chicago six in 1957 being ridden with seven people in the quarter of the stands that the camera caught.\n\nThe success of madisons in America led to their introduction in Europe. The first was at Toulouse in 1906, although it was abandoned after three days because of lack of interest. Berlin tried, three years later, with success. Five races were held in Germany in 1911-12. Brussels followed in 1912 and Paris in 1913.\nThe six-day race continued to do well in Europe. Its heart was in Germany – although races were curtailed in Germany by the Nazis, a six-day event was held in 1938 and was attended by a number of international representatives. These events were strong too, in Belgium and France. In 1923 the journalist Egon Erwin Kisch attended the tenth staging of the Berlin Six Day Race and wrote a celebrated piece \"Elliptische Tretmuehle\" (Elliptical Treadmill). London saw one race at Olympia in July 1923, and then a series of races at Wembley starting in 1936. The local man, Frank Southall, crashed and left for hospital. So did another British hope, Syd Cozens. Only nine of the 15 teams lasted the race. The series continued, with more success, until the start of the second world war in 1939.\n\nRacing began hesitantly after 1945. The first in Germany for 17 years were in 1950; two further races were held at Wembley in 1951 and 1952. Eventually, though, European races began to decline. Races continued through the night, as they had in the US, but the costs of keeping open stadiums for partygoers who'd missed the bus and a small number of dedicated fans was too great. London dropped night racing when it revived six-day racing in 1967 at Earls Court and the following year at Wembley a new organiser, former rider Ron Webb, scheduled just the afternoon and evening, with a break between sessions. Other organisers were not impressed and insisted Webb call his race a \"six\" and not a \"six-day\". One by one, however, they followed Webb's pattern and there are now no old-style 24-hour races left. The last was Madrid. There the riders trundled round all night or, if they could get away with it, slipped off for bed. Tom Simpson remembered:\n\nOur mechanic and general runner was David Nice, an Englishman from Colchester, who was not unlike me in a way, for his nose appeared to be, profile view anyway, very similar to mine (poor lad!) and I hit on the splendid idea of putting him out on the track in my place during the neutralised period. Tracksuited, a scarf over the lower part of his face and a Russian hat that I had bought completed the disguise. He was me to anyone giving a cursory glance at the figures plodding round the track. The get-up was quite in order for it became very cold there at night as they used to turn off all the heating. Everything went well for the first night of the wheeze and I congratulated myself on the plan. It could not go on for ever, though, worse luck, for on the very next night the game was up. Dave was trundling round wrapped up to the eyebrows as before when, horrors upon horrors, the track manager, who often rode a bike round himself during the quiet time, started to talk to him.\n\nHe thought it was me at first and chatted away quite happily to Dave, whose French was near enough non-existent. Well, it was not long before he sensed something was wrong and whipped the scarf off the poor lad's face. He stormed over to my cabin and dragged me out, half asleep, on to the track. That was that! He and the other officials kept their eyes on us after that and we had little chance of getting away with any more larks like that.\n\nThe London Six at Wembley continued annually until 1980.\n\nFounded in 2013, Madison Sports Group, a promoter of cycling events, decided in 2015 to reinvigorate the competition through the introduction of new Six day cycling events in six major cities across the globe, which together form the Six Day Series. The series starts in London travelling across the world, where it touches down in Berlin, Copenhagen, Melbourne and Manchester, before concluding in Brisbane. Although the Six Day Series is their flagship concept, MSG have previously promoted the Rotterdam, Amsterdam and Mallorca Six Day events and are unveiling as Hong Kong the first host in Asia in March 2019.\n\nIn 2015, not long after the London 2012 Olympic Games, Madison Sports Group brought Six day Cycling back to London, the event being held at the Lee Valley Velodrome, which had been built as part of the Olympic legacy. Sir Bradley Wiggins chose the 2016 London event as his last UK track appearance and riders like the Australian Olympic gold medallists Cameron Meyer and Callum Scotson have also featured.\n\nThe women’s event has also grown with the opportunity to compete in the Madison, an added attraction for some of the world’s best exponents of track racing. Two-time world champion Kirsten Wild has attended in previous years, whilst Six Day Manchester 2019 will see Britain’s joint most-decorated female Olympic track cyclist, Laura Kenny, compete. Kenny will also be joined by Six Day London 2017 and Olympic team Pursuit champion Katie Archibald, and fellow British Cycling teammate Elinor Barker, an Olympic, two-time world and four-time European champion.\n\nThe Men’s racing is broken into two separate competitions: The Elite Men’s (riders compete for the Six Day title) and The Sprinters competition.\n\nFor the Elite Men, teams compete in four events as outlined below:\n\n\nAs well as the Elite Men’s racing, Six Day also features a competition for sprinters which is also raced over the six evenings. Sprinters compete in three disciplines, where the points accumulated determine an overall winner. These events are:\n\n\nWithin the Women’s event are two categories: The Elite Women’s and The UCI Women’s Omnium. \nThe Elite Women’s competition consists of three events as outlined below:\n\nThe winning team is the one with the most points and this is important for the riders, as the race carries UCI International Rider Ranking Points\n\nSince the start of the 2017 season Six Day now hosts a full UCI Omnium for the Women. This consists of four events:\n\n\n20 km Points Race – Takes place over 80 laps with 20 points to be won every time a rider laps an opponent and 20 points to be lost if lapped. The race also includes a sprint race every 10 laps five points for the winner, second gets three points, third receives two points and the fourth only one point – The Winner of the race is the rider with the highest points total.\n\nNames in bold are riders still racing.\n\nSix-day racing was portrayed in the 1934 movie \"6 Day Bike Rider\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1840436", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840436", "title": "Lotta Hitschmanova", "text": "Lotta Hitschmanova\n\nLotta Hitschmanova, (November 28, 1909 – August 1, 1990) was a Canadian humanitarian. In 1945, she helped to found the Unitarian Service Committee of Canada, an international development organization consisting of a small group of aid workers sending supplies to war-torn Europe for relief and reconstruction.\n\nAttired in an army nurse's uniform and military-style hat, she traveled yearly to strife-torn and poverty-stricken parts of the world searching out towns and villages in need of Canadian assistance to recover from drought, war, disease and poverty.\n\nHitschmanova was born \"Lotte Hitschmann\" in Prague, Bohemia (now Czech Republic), on November 28, 1909, to Max Hitschmann and Else Theiner. She had a younger sister named Lilly born fifteen months later. Their father was a malt merchant with factories located beyond Prague's suburbs. The family lived in moderate wealth and comfort. She attended a coeducational high school Stephans Gymnasium where she graduated with honours. In 1929 she enrolled in the school of Philosophy at the University of Prague where she excelled at languages earning diplomas in Czech, German, English, French, and Spanish. In 1932 she went to Paris where she studied political science and journalism at the Sorbonne. While at the Sorbonne institute she obtained diplomas in journalism and French studies. In 1935 she returned to Prague to work as a freelance journalist. She also completed her PhD at Prague University.\n\nShe worked for several newspapers (i.a. the French written Romanian newspaper \"L'Indépendance Roumaine\") (see below) as well as the Yugoslavian government news agency. Her writings reflected her anti-Nazi sentiments. When the Germans seized a third of Czechoslovakia following the Munich Agreement of September 30, 1938 she left the country and returned to Paris. She eventually ended up in Brussels, Belgium. At this time she changed her last name to the Slavic pronunciation Hitschmanova which sounded less like German.\n\nIn Belgium, Dr. Hitschmanova worked as a journalist, but when the Germans invaded that country she escaped to France, eventually ending up in Marseilles, where she was able to obtain employment with an immigration service that assisted refugees. One day, while queuing in Marseilles's market over lunch hour, she fainted from fatigue and hunger. After regaining consciousness, Hitschmanova made her way to a medical clinic run by the Boston-based Unitarian Service Committee. This, claims her biographer, Clyde Sanger, was her first contact with the organization. She became even more familiar with it in January 1942 when she was appointed liaison officer with the Czechoslovak relief agency, Centre d'Aide Tchécoslovaque, but not until 1945 would the USC become her life's major work and mission.\n\nIn 1942, Lotta was able to escape from Europe by sailing from Lisbon to New York on a refugee-packed twin-screw steamer designed to carry bananas rather than passengers. After delivering a USC report to Boston, she quickly departed for Canada, which, unlike the United States, had granted her a visa. Lotta later claimed she reached Montreal \"exhausted, with a feeling of absolute solitude in an entirely strange country ... I came with $60 in my pocket. I had an unpronounceable name. I weighed less than 100 lbs, and I was completely lost.\"\n\nShe was not lost for long, for on her fourth day in Canada she managed to obtain a secretarial job with a Montreal firm. Within three months she was in Ottawa working as a postal censor for the Department of War Services. She joined the Czechoslovakian National Alliance and helped raise money for Czech War Services in London, England. She also worked briefly for the United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Administration. After the war ended, Hitschmanova was offered several jobs including one involving the rehabilitation of children in Czechoslovakia. When she learned that her parents had perished in a holding camp en route to the Auschwitz concentration camp she decided to stay in Canada. She found that her sister Lilly had moved to Israel and later on, Lilly relocated to Canada.\n\nIn June 1945, Lotta helped to organize the Canadian branch of the Unitarian Service Committee. She was named as the first chairperson and she served in this position until 1949. The committee was affiliated with the Unitarian Church in Canada and the American Unitarian Association in Boston. In 1948 it severed its official link with the Unitarians and became an independent organization. However, it retained close ties with the Unitarians for many years as well as the word Unitarian in its name, until 2019 when the organization updated its name to SeedChange (Sème l'avenir in French) in order to reflect both the organization's mission and history, and to provide a more memorable name for new generations of supporters.\n\nIts initial objective was the relief of distressed people in France and Czechoslovakia. Senator Cairine Wilson was made honorary chairman, but Hitschmanova, who filled the position of Executive Director, was the driving force behind the organization. On August 29, 1945, USC Canada was registered under the \"War Charities Act\". At first it was only allowed to raise money from Unitarians but in February 1946 the appeal was extended to all Canadians.\n\nIn the spring of 1946, she set off on a three-month tour of western Canada to tell audiences about the hunger and destitution in other countries, to furnish particulars about how Canadian contributions in previous years had been employed, and to appeal for funds and clothing. On her trip, she raised $40,000 and collected 30,000 kg of clothing. In the summer of 1946 she travelled to Europe to assess conditions and after that, she recommended that the organization focus on physically disabled children. Canadians sent food, money and prosthetic limbs for injured children. Through Hitschmanova's direction, USC Canada started a foster parent program. Canadians could sponsor a child for which they would receive a photo and a story.\n\nIn 1949 Hitschmanova advised the USC to switch its efforts to Italy and Greece. USC's role in these two countries lasted until 1979. In 1950, USC expanded its programs to other parts of the world. From the early 1950s to the late 1970s, Korea was a major recipient of relief funds. USC Canada also set up programs in 20 other countries including India, Nepal, Vietnam, Lesotho, and Indonesia.\n\nDuring this period, she entered a routine of three months spent fund-raising in Canada and four months spent overseas to supervise USC Canada programs. She always travelled in her uniform that had become her trademark. This home-made creation of Hitschmanova's was modeled on the outfit worn by American army nurses – olive-green for winter and khaki for summer. Both versions had the word 'Canada' stitched onto the lapel along with badges from the USC. While she never served in any army, Hitschmanova created the uniform because at the time UN workers were required to wear an identifiable uniform. She found the outfit comfortable to wear and made for a light travelling wardrobe. and allowed her to more easily cross borders and access refugee camps. Her uniform has been preserved at the Canadian War Museum and has been featured at the Canadian Museum of Immigration at Pier 21 to highlight her work with refugees (2014).\n\nDuring her fund-raising drives, Hitschmanova made appeals on radio and television. Thanks to her own journalism background, Hitschmanova knew what was needed to make a story and used this expertise to full advantage. Reporters and editors dubbed her \"The Atomic Mosquito\" because of her continuing success in getting good media coverage. The USC produced an annual film that portrayed her on her travels to inspect various projects. In 1972, the USC made a film called the \"USC Story\" created from film clips of the past 25 years. In 1970, Hitschmanova wrote a book entitled \"The USC Story: A Quarter Century of Loving Service by the Unitarian Service Committee\" about her experiences working for USC Canada.\n\nThrough her fundraising efforts, between 1945 and 1984 the USC raised a total of $128,855,000.\n\nThroughout the years, Dr. Hitschmanova received many awards, including the Gold Medal from the Cross of France (1950) and the Medal of St. Paul from Greece (1952). Other awards included the Canadian Centennial Medal; the Queen Elizabeth II Silver Jubilee Medal; the Republic of Korea: Order of Civil Merit; Médaille de la Reconnaissance française; United Nations Headquarters Medal and the Decoration for Order and Peace, 1945-1949 from the Netherlands. These medals added rows of ribbons to her famous home-made uniform. In 1968 she was made an Officer of the Order of Canada and was promoted to Companion in 1979. Dr. Lotta, as she was known, became a symbol of personal dedication, and made the Unitarian Service Committee at its well-publicised address of 56 Sparks Street, Ottawa, Ontario, a household name through her numerous radio and television ads.\n\nIn 1982 she retired from her position as Executive Director due to ill health. Although she spent the final years of her life suffering from Alzheimer's disease, she succumbed to cancer. She died August 1, 1990.\n\nUSC Canada, now called SeedChange, continues to operate in Ottawa at 56 Sparks Street. Since the early 2000s, SeedChange has been focusing its work on small-scale farmers in 12 countries, including Canada. Today, the mission of SeedChange is to \"build food sovereignty by working with partners to enhance biodiversity, promote ecological food systems, and counter inequity.\" The organization does this by focusing on activities that build food and livelihood security for small-scale farmers and preserve the agricultural biodiversity necessary to feeding a growing and changing planet.\n\nVernon Burrows, a renowned scientist specializing in oat research, named one of his new varieties after Hitschmanova. The variety called \"ACLotta\" contains a day-length insensitive gene which allows the plant to flower in countries with shorter days. In 2002, USC Canada created the \"Lotta Hitschmanova Endowment Fund\", which will collect money from bequests and donated securities. Its earnings will be used to support USC Canada's programs such as \"Seeds of Survival\".\n\nIn 2001, it was revealed that the Royal Canadian Mounted Police had spied on Hitschmanova for 30 years ending in 1977. The RCMP, who during the Cold War had targeted various people and organizations, believed that Hitschmanova, as a Czech refugee, may have been sympathetic to Communism.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1840445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840445", "title": "Lamar High School (Houston)", "text": "Lamar High School (Houston)\n\nLamar High School is a comprehensive public secondary school located in Houston, Texas, United States. Lamar's IB Diploma programs is one of two in the Houston Independent School District and consistently graduates the largest number of IB Diploma diploma candidates in Texas.\n\nLamar High School, was established in 1936 in honored memory of Mirabeau B. Lamar (1798–1859), a leader in the Texas Revolution and the second President of the Republic of Texas. Lamar has a four-year program, serving grades 9 through 12.\n\nThe school is located in the Upper Kirby district, serving the Houston neighborhoods of River Oaks and Montrose, the incorporated city of West University Place, a portion of the city of Southside Place, and other Houston subdivisions. Lamar offers neighborhood, Advanced Placement, and IB Diploma (International Baccalaureate) programs. It also hosts a business magnet program offering business management courses that works in conjuncture with the Houston business community to provide internships and university scholarships.\n\nLamar's mascot for its sports teams is the Lamar Texans and as of 2019 Rita Graves is the principal.\n\nIn the 19th century Michael Louis Westheimer, a German immigrant who arrived in Houston in 1859, bought a farm at an auction for $2.50 per acre. On his property Westheimer established a school for local children, including some of his relatives from Germany. The path to the school became \"Westheimer's Road,\" now called Westheimer Road.\n\nThe Houston Independent School District built and established Lamar on the former site of Westheimer's farm. Earlier the Southampton Civic Club attempted to persuade Houston ISD to build Lamar at a lot along Kirby and West Alabama; the attempt failed and Lamar was built across from River Oaks.\n\nLamar opened officially opened in 1937 as \"Southwest High School\" along Westheimer Road before changing its name soon after. The opening relieved pressure on San Jacinto High School in what is now Midtown. When the school opened it had 1,310 students, mostly from Bellaire, West University Place, Montrose, Southampton, and Southgate. In 1938 10% of the students resided in River Oaks.\n\nWilliam Broyles of the \"Texas Monthly\" wrote that in its pre-desegregation history Lamar was the public equivalent of an exclusive prep school and Houston's \"society school\". In that period Lamar was the designation of children of Houston's most prominent families who attended public high schools. Many students in the 1950s had referred to River Oaks Boulevard as the only street with a country club at both ends: one being the River Oaks Country Club, and the \"other\" was Lamar High School. Gregory Curtis of the \"Texas Monthly\" wrote that \"Lamar has always had a reputation as a school of snobs\" within Houston's public school system.\n\nLamar grew rapidly to the point where Robert E. Lee High School (now Margaret Long Wisdom High School) was built in 1962 to relieve Lamar. After its opening, Lee became Lamar's primary athletic rival.\n\nLamar racially integrated in the 1970s. Broyles wrote that Lamar integrated quietly and \"not so much as an experiment in integration but simply as a school, a place where adolescents learn many things, some of them in the classroom.\" Due to integration many of the wealthier families instead sent their children to private schools.\n\nLamar became an IB school in 1982 and this program would later be complemented by the Business Administration Magnet Program established in 1989. In 1987 the school had held its 50th anniversary. It had sent invitations to Tommy Tune, Robert Foxworth, Jaclyn Smith, Tommy Sands, Carlin Glynn, Paula Prentiss, and Candy Tovar. The festivities included appearances from Mayor of Houston Kathy Whitmire, former Governor of Texas Mark White, former Mayor of Houston Fred Hofheinz, Superintendent of HISD Joan Raymond, and others were scheduled to give special presentations.\n\nIn September 1991 Lamar was one of 32 HISD schools that had capped enrollments: The school was at capacity and excess students had to attend other schools. Fran Callahan, a resident of the Old Braeswood neighborhood of Houston, founded the Lamar Alumni Association in 1998 and became its executive director. She decided to create an alumni association after she inquired about making a large-scale fundraising campaign and learned that Lamar, which had many famous individuals as alumni, had no alumni association.\n\nIn 2003 the class of 1953, which included business owners, a film producer, a Nobel prize winner, a nominee for U.S. Secretary of State and a former assistant of the U.S. Secretary of Defense, lawyers, engineers, and an architect, held its 50th reunion. A tour of the Lamar campus and a formal buffet and dance at the Houston Country Club was scheduled for Saturday, November 8, 2003. A brunch was scheduled at the University Club in the morning of Sunday, November 9, 2003. In 2004, Tune performed at Lamar. Foxworth and Jaclyn Smith attended the performance.\n\nThe 2000s would bring speculation about Lamar's overcrowding and new attention to the school's need for new facilities. In 2007, 22% of high-school-age children zoned to Lamar chose to attend a different Houston ISD school. In 2010 Lamar, which has a capacity of 2,525, was 740 students over capacity. In 2010 Magnet Schools of America, a nonprofit, released a report recommending that Lamar's magnet program be abolished, due to overcrowding. In 2014 Terry Grier stated that Lamar should reduce its enrollment to around 3,000 students.\n\nRita Graves, previously principal at Roberts Elementary and Pin Oak Middle School, became the principal of Lamar in August 2018 arriving as the transition to the construction of the new building began.\n\nIn 2018, the HISD Bond project announced a $108 million construction and renovation plan for the building. The plan includes major renovations to the existing historically significant portions of the north building and an entirely new classroom and instructional facility. As of 2019 the construction is near completion.\n\nThe campus is located on the southern end of River Oaks Boulevard. The Lamar High School campus consists of four buildings, a baseball field, a football field, and tennis courts.\n\nThe North Building is a four-story building (including the basement level) which was the original building built in 1936. It consists of many classrooms, the main office, attendance office, magnet office, International Baccalaureate office, special education office, auditorium, band room, cooking room, and the choir room. It was built in a distinctive Art Deco style. The building was made of Texas limestone and the windows are the steel ribbon style. It consists of a single central block with the Ned S. Holmes Auditorium at the western end. The entrance to the theater is decorated by a relief map of Texas that indicates the state's mountain ranges and escarpment John F. Staub and Kenneth Franzheim designed it, while Lamar Q. Cato, Louis A. Glover, and Harry D. Payne assisted. An Italian American, Eraclito \"Nino\" Lenarduzzi, designed the map on the auditorium. Anna Mod, author of \"Building Modern Houston\", wrote that the theater entrance uses \"a more monumental and severe Moderne style\".\n\nIn 2012 Greg Groogan of \"KRIV\" noted that the campus, prior to the late 2010s renovation, had experienced disrepair. The school at the time had insufficient facilities for its now larger student body. The 2019 renovation brought the destruction of the West and East buildings that served Lamar since the 1980s. The new instructional building on Babel Street include completely redone educational facilities and premier sports facilities.\n\nThe school has a large map of Texas on the wall of the performance hall. In 2012 Richard Connelly of the \"Houston Press\" ranked Lamar as the seventh most architecturally beautiful high school campus in Greater Houston, saying that it is \"[d]efinitely one of the most distinctive schools in town.\"\n\nJohn F. Staub and Kenneth Franzheim, two architects, designed Lamar's original buildings with Louis A. Glover, Lamar Q. Cato, and Harry D. Payne. The design uses a \"Z-plan\" which has the auditorium and shop wings on opposite ends of the academic block. Jay C. Henry, the author of \"Architecture in Texas: 1895-1945\", write that the construction had \"a more avant-garde expression.\"\n\nIn 2010 the school announced that it would replace its traditional school library with a coffee bar and electronic research center. The coffee bar is operated by LHS's culinary program.\n\nThe school is seen in the movie \"Rushmore\". In \"Rushmore\" the campus is used as the setting for Grover Cleveland High School. Richard Connelly of the \"Houston Press\" said that the Lamar building \"was ghetto'd up to look like a dilapidated inner-city school.\" The school was also featured in the Chuck Norris film: \"Sidekicks\".\n\nOn October 17, 1987, Lamar High School and its students celebrated its 50th anniversary by creating a time capsule to teach the students in the future how high school life was like in the 1980s. The time capsule was buried in front of Lamar's main entrance where it lies today. The plaque that marks where the time capsule lies is made from marble donated by the community of River Oaks and fundraising events held at Lamar at the time.\n\nThe plaque of Lamar's time capsule reads...\n\nLamar High School\nFiftieth Anniversary Time Capsule\nHEREIN LIES MEMENTOS SELECTED BY STUDENTS AND GRADUATES OF LAMAR HIGH SCHOOL IN COMMEMORATION OF THE FIFTIETH ANNIVERSARY, SEALED ON OCTOBER 17TH, 1987. THE CAPSULE IS TO BE OPENED ON THE 50th ANNIVERSARY, THE YEAR 2037\n\nIn 2017, ground was broken for the building of a new $108 million state-of-the-art campus. Construction is expected to be completed in 2019 and will preserve the significant architectural building structures of the old campus.\n\nFor the 2014–15 school year: \n\nIn the 2016–2017 school year, about 36% of the students were Hispanic, 32% were black, and 24% were white. Circa 2016 about 60% of the students attending Lamar live outside of the Lamar attendance boundary.\n\nIn 2018 more than 50% of the student body was considered to be at risk of becoming school dropouts.\n\nIn the Lamar's early history, students were segregated into different schools by race. In 1967 the school had 2,040 students. Until 1970 HISD categorized Hispanic students as being White, so Jay P. Childers, author of \"The Evolving Citizen: American Youth and the Changing Norms of Democratic Engagement\", wrote that in terms of ethnic ratios, \"Exact numbers for the late 1960s are impossible to calculate\" for that reason. As evidence that White students were the vast majority at that time, he used images from the school newspaper, \"The Lancer\".\n\nChilders wrote that ethnic change \"seemed\" to have quickly occurred after desegregation, citing the fact that in Spring 1974 African Americans made up six of twelve of the class officers and that in 1972 the cover of one issue of the \"Lancer\" showed a black male. Curtis wrote that the racial integration did not cause \"unfortunate incidents\" at the school. In 1975 there were 1,900 students. Due to the outflow of the very wealthy the school was increasingly made up of middle-class students, and some students were of lower income backgrounds: 100 of them rented their own apartments.\n\nAs of 1975 about 33% of Lamar's students were black. Many black parents sent their children to Lamar because of the school's strong academic reputation. By 1975 black students became members of clubs and the cheerleader corps of Lamar, and the student council president and \"Lady of Lamar\" was black. Curtis wrote that black students who did not wish to associate with whites often did not participate in the social environment while whites who did not wish to associate with blacks were still able to participate in that environment. Some black students emphasized with friends attending other schools who criticized them for going to Lamar that they only attended the school. Curtis wrote that some Lamar white students felt that \"going to school with blacks [was] a duty they must perform, a quirk of history they must indulge.\"\n\nIn 2006 Lisa Viator from the \"Houston Chronicle\" stated that between the 1950s and 2006 the school had transitioned from \"an exclusive suburban institution\" to a multiethnic urban high school. As of 2010 the Lamar campus was built to accommodate 2,525 students but housed an additional 740 students as of the 2010–2011 school year. It is one of the most popular high schools for transferring in HISD and is one of the most ethnically diverse in the city.\n\nIn 2008 William G. Ouchi, author of \"Making Schools Work: A Revolutionary Plan to Get Your Children the Education They Need\", stated that Lamar was one of the two \"elite\" public high schools in Houston along with Bellaire High School. In 1979, Al Reinert of \"Texas Monthly\" stated that Lamar was historically one of the two elite public high schools in all of Texas, along with Highland Park High School near Dallas. Laura Nathan-Garner, author of the second edition of the \"Insiders' Guide to Houston\" (2012), wrote that Lamar was \"considered one of the area's best public high schools.\"\n\nIn January 2015 the school began issuing laptop computers to all students. Several classes now use the \"flipped classroom\" model where the teacher uploads lectures that may be viewed over the internet at any time, while hands-on work is done in the classroom.\n\nIn the pre-desegregation period just about all Lamar students matriculated to colleges and universities. After desegregation in the 1970s and the resulting social class changes, the percentage of students moving on to colleges and universities was down to about 66% by 1975. At that time there were declines in the National Merit Qualifying Exam and SAT test scores.\n\nIn 2007, Lamar was ranked as in Jay Mathews \"Newsweek\"'s lists of the top high schools in the United States. Many students in other parts of Houston ISD transfer to Lamar to escape home schools that do not have a good academic performance, causing the attendance figures of those schools to suffer.\n\nIn 2007 Todd Spivak of the \"Houston Press\" reported about the magazine's feature \"These Kids Go to the Best Public High School in Houston.\" Spivak said that Lamar High School, which he described as \"well-regarded,\" received a lower rating due to a 66% graduation rate. Dr. Robert Sanborn, president, and CEO of the Children at Risk organization said that there was an achievement gap at Lamar between the top-performing students and the lowest-performing students.\n\nHouston ISD provides school buses for students who live more than two miles (3 km) from the school or who have major obstacles between their houses and the school. Students are eligible if they are zoned to Lamar or are in the Lamar magnet program.\n\nA METRO bus stop (Westheimer Road @ River Oaks Boulevard) is at the school's entrance. Bus lines 81 & 82 (Westheimer) stop at Westheimer @ River Oaks.\n\nThe school seal includes the coat of arms of the family of Mirabeau B. Lamar. The school motto \"Va t'en aux étoiles\", featured on the seal, was the Lamar family's motto.\n\nBefore fall 2006, Lamar maintained a dress code allowing for students to wear most types of clothing. Starting in the 2006–2007 school year, the school requires school uniforms. Uniforms consist of monogrammed navy or white Lamar polo shirts and khaki bottoms. All shoe types are permitted, including flip-flops; female students are allowed to wear plaid skirts. The Texas Education Agency specifies that the parents and/or guardians of students zoned to a school with uniforms may apply for a waiver to opt out of the uniform policy so their children do not have to wear the uniform; parents must specify \"bona fide\" reasons, such as religious reasons or philosophical objections. Alice Davidson, a Lamar student who wrote the \"Screaming in the Halls\" column in the \"Yo! Houston\" section of the \"Houston Chronicle\", said that the Lamar uniform is similar to that of the St. John's School.\n\nOf the more than twenty HISD high schools that, as of 2007, had a standardized dress code or uniforms, Lamar was the only one that had a White plurality. The principal, James McSwain, cited safety concerns with a world after the Columbine High School massacre and the September 11, 2001 attacks as the reason for the school's adoption of uniforms. The newly created policy received opposition from some students and parents; the policy was criticized in the May 16, 2006 \"Houston Chronicle\" by Davidson in her column. The \"Houston Chronicle\" printed a feature about the Lamar uniform policy in the August 22, 2006 edition of the Yo! section; the feature was written by Jessica Silverman, a student at Lamar as of 2006.\n\nIn summer 2009, summer school students at Lamar were required to buy a uniform that differed from the regular Lamar uniform.\n\nMany parts of Houston west of Downtown that are inside the 610 Loop are zoned to Lamar. River Oaks, Afton Oaks, Upper Kirby, Avalon Place, Avondale, Southgate, Morningside Place, Highland Village, Shadyside, West Lane Place, Lynn Park, Oak Estates, Royden Oaks, Old Braeswood, Boulevard Oaks, Southampton Place, most of Cottage Grove, Sunset Terrace, Broadacres, Ranch Estates, Rice Village, Rice Military, Crestwood/Glen Cove, Weslayan Plaza, the portions of Braeswood Place east of Stella Link and north of South Braeswood (including Braes Heights and Braes Oaks), most of Midtown, a small portion of Riverside Terrace, and the Neartown area (including Montrose, Cherryhurst, Westmoreland, Courtlandt Place, Hyde Park, Richwood, Lancaster Place, Castle Court, and North Montrose) are also zoned to Lamar. Laura Nathan-Garner, author of the second edition of the \"Insiders' Guide to Houston\" (2012), wrote that \"Many children in [River Oaks] attend [Lamar]\".\n\nIn addition, all pupils in the city of West University Place and the majority of pupils in the city of Southside Place (areas east of Stella Link Road) are zoned to Lamar.\n\nRice Village Apartments, the Rice University graduate housing complexes that admit families, is zoned to this school; Morningside Square, a Rice University complex which was formerly in operation and also housed families, was also zoned to Lamar. 7900 Cambridge and 1885 El Paseo, the student housing properties of the University of Texas Health Science Center at Houston, are also zoned to Lamar. The Texas Medical Center (TMC) employee housing complex, Laurence H. Favrot Tower Apartments, was also zoned to Lamar; On August 31, 2012 the complex closed.\n\nIn the 1970s most of the neighborhoods in Lamar's attendance zone were middle and upper middle class, with the exception of the very wealthy River Oaks. As of 1975 the boundaries were roughly Interstate 10 (Katy Freeway) to the North, the Brays Bayou to the South, Montrose Boulevard to the East, and the 610 Loop to the west.\n\nStudents residing in the Margaret Long Wisdom attendance zone, including the Uptown district and the neighborhoods of Briarmeadow, Briargrove, Briarcroft, Gulfton, Larchmont, Tanglewilde, St. George Place (Lamar Terrace), Shenandoah, Tanglewood, West Oaks, Woodlake Forest, Jeanetta, Sharpstown Country Club Estates, and small portions of Westchase east of Gessner, may go to Lamar, Margaret Long Wisdom High, or Westside High. Small portions of the cities of Hunters Creek Village and Piney Point Village are zoned to Margaret Long Wisdom with options for Lamar and Westside.\n\nLamar High School teams are Lamar Texans. Prior to this, they were Redskins; this nickname was phased out and replaced with the \"Texans,\" as \"Redskins\" is considered by some to be derogatory to the Native American population. In April 2014 the HISD school board decided to rename remaining sports team names of Confederate and Native American mascots owing to fears of appearing culturally insensitive. Each school submitted its main choices to the HISD administration. The majority of Lamar students voted for Texian, but the school adopted \"Texan\" because HISD board members believed \"Texan\" was better than \"Texian\" since the latter could be culturally insensitive. During the Redskin era, the school had a statue called \"Big Red,\" a depiction of a Native American.\n\nLamar Texans' archrivals are the Bellaire High Cardinals from Houston suburb Bellaire, Texas. Their main competitions are soccer and baseball. In previous eras the primary athletic rival was Lee High School. American football games were the primary outlet of this rivalry, but it manifested itself in other ways; in 1975 Gregory Curtis of the \"Texas Monthly\" wrote that \"the respective Key Clubs know year by year which club has sold more grapefruit in the Christmas drive and more tickets to the spring Pancake Breakfast.\" According to Curtis, the rivalry \"is as natural as it is intense\" because the schools had students from the same social class and general geographic area.\n\nHistorically the cheerleading program at Lamar was very prominent. In the 1970s female and male students aspired to become cheerleaders. Curtis stated that being a cheerleader gave students the popularity needed to be elected in student government and club positions, such as the student body president, Key Club president, president of the Ramal club, and the president of the Pow Wow club. A male student interviewed by Curtis stated that cheerleaders had more status than American football players.\n\nLamar won the 1953 4A State Football Championship beating Odessa 33–7.\n\nLamar won the 1969 State Baseball championship.\n\nThe men's lacrosse team won the state championships in 1989 and 1995 and were state runner-ups in 1999 and 2001. The women's lacrosse team won the state championship in 1999 and 2011. The 2011 Women's Varsity team had five players named to the US Lacrosse Academic American Team.\n\nThe Lamar Redskins American football program teams have reached the playoffs 30 times, which ties Baytown Lee for the highest-ranking team in Greater Houston area. In 2012, the Redskins reached the Texas 5A Division 1 Football Championship and lost to the Allen High School (Allen, Texas) Eagles, 35–21. Lamar's football program has regularly advanced to state eliminations rounds, meeting teams from more rural areas of Texas. As of 1979 the team has historically received large booster support and was made up of sons of oil businessmen. Al Reinert of \"Texas Monthly\" described the team as one of two \"on-and-off football powers\".\n\nOther sports at the school include:\n\nLamar High School has several organizations and clubs.\n\nSpecial Interest\nAmerican Field Service,\nAmnesty International,\nAnimal Welfare Society,\nAsian Cultural Society,\nAutomotive Innovative Installation Design,\nBest Buddies,\nBike Club,\nBiology Club,\nBreakfast Club,\nBlack Student Union,\nChess Club,\nBeyonce Club,\nChristian Student Union,\nCulinary Arts,\nComputer Service Club,\nDrama Club,\nDebate Club,\nEntrepreneurs of America,\nField Hockey,\nFellowship of Christian Athletes,\nFilm Club,\nFrench Club,\nFrolf (Frisbee Golf/ Disc Golf) Club,\nFuture Farmers of America (FFA),\nGay-Straight Alliance,\nGerman Club,\nHispanic Club,\nGolf,\nIce hockey,\nIndustrial Technology Club,\nItalian Club,\nJapanese Club,\nLa Vida Dulce,\nLoading Dock Productions,\nLacrosse,\nPACE,\nPhotography Club,\nPing Pong Club\nPokémon Club,\nRussian Club, RAMAL\nScrabble Club,\nSkateboarding Club,\nSub Log Indian Club,\nTechnology Student Association,\nUltimate,\nYu-Gi-Oh! Trading Card Game Club,\nYoung Ladies of Distinction,\nYoung Democrats\nYoung Libertarians,\nYoung Republican Club of America,\nWichocolate,\nPow-Wowerade, Robotics ( FRC, VEX)\n\nPerforming Arts\nBand – Marching & Concert,\nConcert Women,\nChoir,\nChoraliers,\nConcert Band,\nDance / Dance Theatre,\nDrama Club/Thespians,\nJazz Studio,\nMadrigals,\nOrchestra,\nPoets Alive,\nArrowettes Drill Team.\n\nAcademics and Honors\nAcademic Decathlon,\nArrowhead (4.0 + GPA),\nDebate,\nDECA (Marketing Club),\nFrench National Honor Society,\nGerman National Honor Society,\nRussian Club,\nIB Diploma Candidates,\nLatin Honor Society,\nMagnet School,\nMath Club (Mu Alpha Theta),\nNational Honor Society,\nOdyssey of the Mind,\nQuill and Scroll,\nQuiz Bowl,\nSpanish National Honor Society.\n\nService and Spirit\nCheerleaders,\nDiamonds,\nInteract,\nJunior Reserve Officers' Training Corps,\nKey Club,\nMuslim Student Association,\nArrowettes Drill Team,\nSenior Class,\nWakonda (Freshmen Club),\nWarriors.\n\nNews\n\"Lamar Life\" (Newspaper),\n\"Orenda\" (Yearbook).\n\nLeadership\nLamar Student Council.\n\nTechnology\nLamar Robotics Club\n\n\"Lamar Life\" is a full-color quarterly news magazine. Childers described it as resembling \"a strange blending of \"Newsweek\" and \"Teen Vogue\".\" The school newspaper was previously \"The Lancer\". Childers wrote that the \"Lancer\" during the mid-1990s \"took a decidedly downward turn\" and in 2000 was ended. \"Lamar Life\" began in its place. Lamar High School has its own news broadcast station called Lamar Cable Television.\n\nIn the 1970s the school had various social clubs, some intended for boys and some intended for girls. The Lamar administration did not permit the establishment of fraternities and sororities. In 1975 Mirabeau, Niwauna, and Wachaka were the active girls' clubs while two others were inactive. The main boys' clubs were Pow Pow and Ramal.\n\nAt the time the clubs had a membership capacity; those with more prospective members than slots held lotteries that randomly determined who is permitted to join. Many clubs at the time had a tradition of hazing new members. Several clubs engaged in charitable events and fundraisers, and they also sponsored parties. Curtis wrote that \"But what they do is really secondary, just as what fraternities and sororities do is secondary. It is the \"belonging\" that counts.\"\n\nCurtis added that the clubs \"have an aura of exclusivity; kids can tell whether or not they're really wanted there.\" Due to the demographic changes in the 1970s, according to Curtis, interest in these social clubs decreased, with the two boys' clubs not having full membership rosters and two girls' clubs being inactive in 1975.\n\nDalian No. 24 High School in Dalian, People's Republic of China has been Lamar's sister school since 2000. Dalian is one of Houston's sister cities as designated by Sister Cities International.\n\nInage Senior High School in Chiba City, Chiba Prefecture, Japan is also one of Lamar's sister schools. Chiba has been Houston's sister city through Sister Cities International since 1973.\n\nElementary schools that feed into Lamar include:\n\nMiddle schools that feed into Lamar include:\n\nAll pupils zoned to Pershing Middle School may apply to Pin Oak Middle School's regular program; therefore Pin Oak also feeds into Lamar High School.\n\nMore schools feed into Lamar as all students zoned to Margaret Long Wisdom High School may instead choose to go to Lamar High School or Westside High School.\n\nElementary schools that feed into Margaret Long Wisdom (and therefore feed into Lamar) include:\n\nMiddle schools that feed into Margaret Long Wisdom (and therefore also feed into Lamar) include:\n\nK-8 schools that feed into Margaret Long Wisdom (and therefore also feed into Lamar) include:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1840449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840449", "title": "Vic Bubas", "text": "Vic Bubas\n\nVictor Albert Bubas (January 28, 1927 – April 16, 2018) was an American college basketball coach for Duke University.\n\nBubas graduated from Gary Lew Wallace High School in 1944. After finishing high school he enrolled at the University of Illinois, playing the 1944-45 season for the Fighting Illini. He then went on to North Carolina State University where he played for Everett Case. Bubas was an All-Southern Conference selection twice. After he graduated in 1951 he stayed on as a freshman coach until 1955 and as a varsity assistant coach until he was hired by Duke University in 1959.\n\nDuring the 1960s Bubas expanded Duke University's basketball program. He took it from a successful regional program that won a lot of games to a national program.\n\nDuring the tenure of Bubas at Duke University, the school did not recruit black athletes. Bubas is widely credited with pioneering the art of recruiting by targeting white players very early and gathering information on them before other coaches had learned of them and would send newspaper clippings of Duke games to prospects. As North Carolina legendary coach Dean Smith once stated,\n\n\"Vic taught us all how to recruit, we had been starting on prospects in the fall of their senior years while Vic was working on them their junior year. For a while, all of us were trying to catch up with him.\"\nBubas's tireless efforts paid off as he brought in future All-Americans from all over the country. His first big coup was getting eventual National Player Of The Year Art Heyman to go to Duke. Heyman was originally set to attend North Carolina but a near fight between Heyman's stepfather and UNC head coach Frank McGuire (McGuire took it personally when Heyman's stepfather referred to his program as \"a factory\") sent Heyman on a different path and Bubas stepped in and was able to convince Heyman to attend Duke.\n\nAnother big coup was getting Lexington, Kentucky native and eventual two-time All-American Jeff Mullins from the University of Kentucky and legendary Adolph Rupp. Paired together, Heyman and Mullins formed a devastating duo, reaching the Final Four in 1963 and 1964.\n\nTimes were different. Freshmen were not allowed to play on the varsity and only the winner of the ACC Tournament could go to the NCAA Tournament. Vic Bubas' Duke teams still flourished. What began during that 1959-60 season grew rapidly over the course of the decade. In that first season, Duke was blown out twice each by Wake Forest and North Carolina. But in the ACC Tournament, Bubas got revenge, stunning 16th-ranked North Carolina and 18th-ranked Wake Forest in the title game for Duke's first ACC championship. Duke received the automatic bid in the NCAA tournament, where the Blue Devils won two games before losing to 12th-ranked NYU. It was a very surprising first season for the young coach. As his program progressed, Duke would finish in the AP Top-10 basketball poll in seven of his ten seasons. He led Duke to the NCAA Final Four three times (1963, 64 and 66). His teams finished first in league play on four occasions and won four ACC championships, competing in the ACC Tournament championship game in eight of his ten seasons. Bubas led Duke to a 213-67 record, which was the 3rd-highest win total in America during the Sixties. His .761 winning percentage ranks tenth all-time among NCAA coaches.\n\nBubas retired from coaching in 1969 and then served as a Duke administrator, eventually becoming the Vice-President of the university. In 1976, he became the first commissioner of the Sun Belt Conference, a position he held for fourteen years until his retirement.\n\nIn 2007 Bubas was inducted into the National Collegiate Basketball Hall of Fame.\n\nBubas died on the morning of April 16, 2018 at age 91.\n\n"}
{"id": "1840450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840450", "title": "Small-order execution system", "text": "Small-order execution system\n\nThe Small-Order Execution System (SOES) was a system to facilitate clearing trades of low volume on NASDAQ. It has been phased out and is no longer necessary.\n\nSOES was first introduced in December 1984 for 25 stocks to provide automatic order execution for individual traders with orders less than or equal to 1000 shares.\nThe lack of liquidity after the 1987 market crash led NASDAQ to enforce mandatory use of the SOES by all market makers using the NASDAQ National Market System, providing excellent liquidity for smaller investors and traders.\n\nThere were several restrictions for those who used SOES, rather than a traditional electronic communication network (ECN), to place their orders.\n\n\nInitially, when SOES was mandatory, it was met with heavy pessimism from NASDAQ member firms because it forced them to execute all SOES trades that met the market maker's advertised price. There were also significant limitations implemented to prevent day traders from exploiting the system and taking advantage of old prices quoted by market makers.\n\nSOES revamped the trading market for individual investors. It gave small investors and traders the opportunity to compete on a level playing field with larger investors, such as institutions, for access to orders and execution.\n"}
{"id": "1840452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840452", "title": "Gyöngyös", "text": "Gyöngyös\n\nGyöngyös is a town in Heves county in Hungary, east of Budapest. Situated at the foot of the Sár-hegy and Mátra mountains, it is the home of numerous food production plants, including milk production and sausage factories. It is also the home of many vineyards on the slopes of the Sárhegy.\n\nThe Art-Nouveau and Baroque buildings around the main square were reconstructed after a disastrous fire started in the local hospital in 1917, destroying a number of buildings housing important Jewish institutions and leaving in all around 8,000 homeless.\n\nThe meaning of the town's name is \"Made of Pearls\"; Croats from Hungary call this city \"Đunđuš\" (pronounced as \"Dyun-dyush\"). The 16/17th-century historian Miklós Istvánffy wrote that the name of the town comes from the Hungarian word for mistletoe (\"fagyöngy\" literally \"wood-pearl\"), which is abundant in the local woods.\n\nGyöngyös was home to a large Jewish community before World War II. In 1942, anti-Jewish laws were adopted in the province, affecting the Jews of the town. Following the occupation of Hungary by the German army in March 1944, 1800 Jews were locked in a ghetto. Some were saved by Hungarian Righteous Among the Nations personnel but most of them were deported to Auschwitz and killed.\n\nThere are many monuments and places of interest in the town, such as the Orczy mansion, home of the Mátra Museum, Saint Bartholomew's Church (Saint Bartholomew Church, Gyöngyös, Hungary) in the center of town, and its Treasury.\n\n\nGabor Horváth, (1963–) Brigadier General, Army Carrier Officer, promoter of NATO and EU membership,Commander\n\n\nGyöngyös is twinned with:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1840453", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840453", "title": "List of Oklahoma locations by per capita income", "text": "List of Oklahoma locations by per capita income\n\nOklahoma is the 37th-richest state in the United States of America, with a per capita income of $32,210 in 2006 and the third fastest-growing per capita income in the nation. Oklahoma also has one of the lowest costs of living in the nation, making its relative per capita income levels much higher than its ranking among states.\n\nNote: Data is from the 2010 United States Census Data and the 2006-2010 American Community Survey 5-Year Estimates.\n"}
{"id": "1840454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840454", "title": "Ray Lewington", "text": "Ray Lewington\n\nRaymond Lewington (born 7 September 1956) is an English retired footballer and current assistant manager of Crystal Palace FC. Previously he was the assistant manager of the England national football team. His son, Dean, is a professional footballer playing for Milton Keynes Dons.\n\nLewington started his career at Chelsea in the 1970s, and played a season at Vancouver Whitecaps in 1979 where he was part of the Whitecaps' championship squad that won the NASL Soccer Bowl 1979, before a loan spell at Wimbledon.\n\nIn 1980, he transferred to Fulham, and he was to go on and make over 170 League appearances for them before a season at Sheffield United in 1985–86. After that season he returned to Fulham and went on to play another 60 league matches for them.\n\nLewington became player-manager of Fulham after they were relegated to the Football League Third Division in July 1986. Lewington, still only 29, was the youngest manager in the Football League at the time. Fulham's budget was tight and they could only manage an 18th-place finish in Lewington's first season as manager. Off the field, the club was unstable after two takeovers in quick succession and the suggestion of a merger with their West London rivals Queens Park Rangers.\n\nThe next two seasons showed no sign of an up-turn in fortune, but in 1989, Lewington guided the club to the play-offs, although they were unsuccessful in achieving promotion. The following season saw the club struggle against relegation once more. At the end of that season, Alan Dicks was brought in, with Lewington becoming his assistant.\n\nLewington had spells as caretaker manager at Fulham in 1991 and 1994, before joining Crystal Palace as a coach, becoming assistant to Alan Smith as Palace were relegated from the Premiership. Brentford were taken over by former Palace owner Ron Noades in 1998, Brentford's \"chairman-manager\" brought in Lewington as a Coach. After Noades relinquished his team-selection duties in 2000, Lewington was appointed as manager of Brentford, taking them to a losing appearance in the Football League Trophy final in 2001 and guiding them to 14th in Division Two. He left at the end of the 2000–01 season to become Gianluca Vialli's reserve team manager at Watford: a difficult role, as Vialli never let any first-team players play for the reserve side.\n\nWhen Vialli was sacked in the summer 2002, Lewington was appointed manager. Like with Fulham 16 years earlier, Lewington assumed control of a club that had an extremely limited budget, with the club crippled from the collapse of ITV Digital and the high-spending of the Vialli era, which had failed to result in promotion to the Premier League. Despite this, Lewington guided the club to two middle table finishes and two cup semi-finals — a 2–1 loss to Southampton in the FA Cup in 2003 and a 2–0 loss (over two legs) to Liverpool in the League Cup two seasons later. Just two months after the Liverpool game, Lewington was sacked, after a poor run of league form.\n\nIn July 2005, Lewington returned to Fulham after ten years away, as reserve team manager, under manager Chris Coleman. By this time, Fulham were an established Premier League club with healthy finances. In December 2007, Lewington served a brief stint as caretaker manager after the departure of Lawrie Sanchez, managing the team for three games until Roy Hodgson was appointed full-time. He remained at Craven Cottage as part of the management team as assistant manager. He was replaced as assistant manager by Mark Bowen when Mark Hughes became manager and became the First Team Coach.\n\nOn 17 October 2010, it was announced on the Fulham website that Lewington had been given the job of leading the club's Youth Development Program and that taking his position as first team coach would be Glyn Hodges.\n\nMark Hughes resigned after the end of the 2010–11 season and his successor Martin Jol reinstated Lewington as First Team Coach in June 2011, alongside Jol's assistants Michael Lindeman and Cornelius Jol. Jol said: \"We started off with him because he's probably a main figure here, at this club, he knows everything.\"\nOn 4 May 2012, it was confirmed that Lewington would become England assistant manager alongside Roy Hodgson, who had just accepted the FA's offer to manage the England team, having previously managed West Bromwich Albion. On 27 June 2016 he resigned as part of the England coaching staff after the embarrassing defeat to Iceland in Euro 2016.\n\nOn 12 September 2017, following the appointment of Roy Hodgson as manager of Crystal Palace FC, it was announced that Lewington would once again return to the club as assistant manager.\n"}
{"id": "1840468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840468", "title": "Jacobsen syndrome", "text": "Jacobsen syndrome\n\nJacobsen syndrome is a rare chromosomal disorder resulting from deletion of genes from chromosome 11 that includes band 11q24.1. It is a congenital disorder. Since the deletion takes place on the q arm of chromosome 11, it is also called 11q terminal deletion disorder. The deletion may range from 5 million to 16 million deleted DNA base pairs. The severity of symptoms depends on the number of deletions; the more deletions there are, the more severe the symptoms are likely to be.\n\nPeople with Jacobsen syndrome have serious intellectual disabilities, dysmorphic features, delayed development and a variety of physical problems including heart defects. Research shows that almost 88.5% of people with Jacobsen syndrome have a bleeding disorder called Paris-Trousseau syndrome.\n\nJacobsen syndrome is catastrophic in 1 out of every 5 cases, with children usually dying within the first 2 years of life due to heart complications.\nAlmost all children with Jacobsen syndrome have intellectual disabilities, which range from mild to moderate depending upon the number of the deletions of genes from the chromosome. Children with intellectual disability take more time than normal to learn new things and acquire new skills. They have problems with assembling new information or adapting to novel situations and associating two events or things together.\n\nMost children with the syndrome have delayed development, including delayed speech, motor disabilities and lack of coordination, which makes simple activities like sitting, standing and walking difficult. Most children eventually start speaking, but in cases with severe intellectual disability language use is highly restricted.\n\nThey have distinctive facial features like:\n\nSome children also suffer from behavioural problems like distractibility, hyperactivity, impaired communication and social skills, which qualifies them for a diagnosis of ASD and ADHD. Heart defects are very common in children with Jacobsen syndrome. 88.5% of people with the disorder have Paris-Trousseau syndrome, which is a bleeding disorder and causes a lifelong risk of abnormal bleeding and bruising due to dysfunction in the platelets. Other symptoms may include eye problems, ear and sinus infections, hearing problems, bone deformities, growth hormone deficiency, gastrointestinal problems, kidney malfunctions, etc.\n\nJacobsen syndrome is caused by deletion of genetic material from the long arm of chromosome 11. The size of deletion may vary across patients, but the deletion always occurs at the end terminal of the q arm of chromosome 11. There are three ways in which the deletion could occur:\n\nde novo deletion- this is a random event that occurred during the formation of the sperm or the egg or during the cell division in the embryonic stage, where genes from chromosome 11 get deleted.\n\nImbalanced translocation- in this case, a parent with balanced translocation or other types of chromosomal rearrangement can pass on these genes to their children which further results in an imbalanced translocation. The affected children have deletions on chromosome 11 as well as some extra genetic material from another chromosome.\n\nRing chromosome 11- in this case genetic material from both long and short arm of the chromosome get deleted, and the remaining part joins together and forms a ring like structure. Here the affected person would have symptoms associated with both 11q and 11p deletion.\nIf de novo deletion occurs then both the parents have normal chromosomes, and chances that another child will have the deletion decline. Very few cases have been found in which the deletion has been present in mosaic form (where some of the cells have deletion on chromosome 11 and some do not, and the symptoms are less severe) in one of the parents, which increases the risk of having another child with Jacobsen syndrome. When the child's chromosomal abnormality occurs due to one of the parents' balanced translocation, the chances of another child having the abnormality is high. \n\nDiagnosing Jacobsen syndrome can be difficult in some cases because it is a rare chromosomal disorder. There are a variety of tests that can be carried out, like karyotypes, cardiac echocardiograms, a renal sonogram, a platelet count, blood counts, a brain imaging study. Genetic testing can be carried out for diagnosis. Here chromosomes are stained to give a barcode like appearance and studied under the microscope, which reveals the broken and deleted genes. The condition can also be diagnosed early in the prenatal stage if there are any abnormalities seen in the ultrasound. A simple assessment of the symptoms can be done to diagnose the syndrome. A thorough physical examination could be carried out to assess the symptoms.\n\nThere has been no treatment discovered for Jacobsen syndrome to date, but the symptoms can be treated. 56% of children with Jacobsen syndrome have congenital heart problems; to keep them in check, a baseline evaluation can be made by a paediatric cardiologist by carrying out an electrocardiogram or echocardiogram. Any problems that are found can be treated then.\n\nAlmost all affected children are born with a bleeding disorder; monthly CBT may help ease the problem. Consecutively. platelet transfusion and ddAVP can be carried out. Medication that interferes with platelet count should be avoided, and oral contraceptive therapy may be considered for women with heavy bleeding during menses.\n\nChildren affected with Jacobsen syndrome have severe to moderate intellectual disabilities and cognitive impairment. An evaluation by a neuropsychologist or a behaviour specialist like a psychiatrist or psychologist can be performed, including brain imaging like MRI or ERP. Later, as deemed appropriate, intervention programs can be carried through. Music therapy is very beneficial for language development. According to the age, vision and hearing tests can aid in fixing problems related cognition. For problems related to behaviour like ADHD, medication or therapy would be required but a combination of both is more effective. An ophthalmologist should be consulted to treat the eye defects. Play and interactive games encourage the child to speak. Habilitiation in children should begin at an early age. A habilitation team includes professionals with special expertise in how disability affects everyday life, health and development. The entire family is supported to help the affected children and their families adjust better.\nThe estimated prevalence of Jacobsen syndrome is believed to be approximately 1 out of every 100,000 births. For reasons unknown, females are twice as likely to have Jacobsen syndrome than males. No preference for any race or ethnicity has been reported so far.\n\nThe syndrome was first identified by Danish geneticist Petrea Jacobsen in 1973 and was named after her. She discovered Jacobsen syndrome in a family where multiple people had the disorder. She discovered that the affected children had unbalanced translocation between chromosome 11 and 21 which they had inherited from one of their parents who had balanced translocation. Since then, only 200 cases have been reported of Jacobsen syndrome in medical literature.\n"}
{"id": "1840470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840470", "title": "Europe 1", "text": "Europe 1\n\nEurope 1, formerly known as Europe n° 1, is a privately owned radio station created in 1955. Owned and operated by Lagardère Active, a subsidiary of the Lagardère Group, it is one of the leading radio broadcasting stations in France and its programmes can be received throughout the country.\n\nIn 1955, to circumvent the prohibition of commercial broadcasting in France after the Second World War, Europe n° 1 was established in the Saarland, a German state that borders France and Luxembourg. Transmissions were not legally authorised, however, until France's post-war administration of the Saarland ceased and sovereignty returned to West Germany in 1957; so, during its first two years (1955–1957), under the direction of Louis Merlin, who had defected from Radio Luxembourg, Europe n° 1 was a pirate radio station. In 1959 the French government bought part of the broadcasting corporation, and this interest is administered today by the Lagardère Group. All programming has always been produced in Paris. For the few parts of France who can't receive the FM signal, longwave broadcast still exists : the programme feed is transferred over ISDN lines to the transmitting station situated on the territory of the villages of Berus and Felsberg in the Saarland, Germany.\n\nFrom its beginning, Europe n°1's priorities were two-fold: first, news and cultural information with an emphasis on eyewitness accounts rather than an announcer with a script; second, shows aimed at establishing bonds with listeners, including plays, contests, informal talk, popular music, and street-level politics. In both respects, it was a departure from radio formats of the day.\n\nIn the 1960s, Europe 1 pioneered a new tone in French radio. Salut les copains became an icon of popular culture and the baby boom generation. Europe 1 played a role in the May 68 political crisis by being the principal source of information untainted by government sanction; it was nicknamed \"barricade radio\". In the 1970s, President Giscard d'Estaing criticized its \"mocking\" tone. When the industrialist Jean-Luc Lagardère became president of Europe 1 group, some feared the network might lose its independent point of view.\n\nSince the 1980s, Europe 1 has experienced decreases in audience, and average age of listeners has steadily increased. Both can be traced to the proliferation of FM radio, after socialist President François Mitterrand made FM private radio legal in 1981. In 1986, for equality, the regulation authorities gave FM frequencies to Europe 1 and other peripheral radios still emitting from outside France. A network of Europe 1 FM transmitters was established within France. They later had to be shared with Europe 2, now Virgin Radio. In the 1990s, Europe 1 became a news and talk network. Jean-Pierre Elkabbach became president in 2005. He was dismissed by the CSA (Comité de Surveillance de l'Audiovisuel) after announcing the death of Pascal Sevran prematurely in June 2008 and was replaced by Alexandre Bompard, former Director of the Sports at Canal+.\n\nToday, Europe 1 is France's fifth most popular network, with the other four being RTL (radio-television Luxembourg), France Inter (state-owned, general), NRJ (music) and France Info (state-owned, news).\n\nEurope 1 also became a supplementary active member of the European Broadcasting Union in 1978 and in 1982, an active member.\n\nOver the last fifty years, the best-known programs on Europe 1 have included: 'Pour ceux qui aiment le jazz' (\"For those who love jazz\") hosted by Daniel Filipacchi and Franck Ténot, 'Signé Furax' (\"Signed, Furax\", a comic adventure serial), 'Salut les copains' (\"Hi, friends\", a pop music programme), 'Campus' (book reviews, interviews with literary personalities, and chat about current events and culture), 'Vous êtes formidables' (a programme devoted to \"demonstrations of solidarity\"), 'Bonjour, monsieur le maire' (aimed at rural France), 'L'horoscope de Madame Soleil' (astrology), 'Top 50' (a reprise of the musical charts), and 'Le club de la presse' (\"Press Club\", political conversation). BBC Radio 5 had a translated version of Top 50 called Le Top (with Marc et La Mèche) from 1990 to 1994.\n\nNoted journalists, presenters, and performers have included: Patrick Topaloff, Maurice Siegel, Jean Gorini, André Arnaud, Pierre Bouteiller, Pierre Bellemare, Francis Blanche, Daniel Filipacchi, Frank Ténot, Lucien Morisse, Robert Willar, Albert Simon, Laurent Ferrari and Madame Soleil. Former is Wendy Bouchard. She was succeeded by Laurence Ferrari in 2014.\n\nEurope 1 is broadcast in France, from France, through a dense FM network since 1986, but the station was also broadcast on longwave by Europe 1's longwave transmitter until the end of 2019. The longwave feed was transmitted by Europäische Rundfunk- und Fernseh-AG (in English, European Radio and Television Company), broadcasting on longwave at 183 kHz from Felsberg in the Saarland. Car radios in France scanned in 3 kHz steps making it easy to tune 183 kHz.\n\nFor longwave, the Felsberg antenna system beamed Europe 1's signal southwestward towards France. In the easterly direction, transmissions were attenuated, so, in Eastern Europe, only a weak signal could be heard. However, because of a defect in the antenna system, only the carrier frequency was properly screened to the east; the sidebands suffered less attenuation, so that, in the east, sideband reception was adequate (especially if using an SSB receiver) but distorted. Following the collapse of one mast in the four-mast phased array on 8 October 2012, the two-mast reserve antenna was used, resulting in a reduced signal in parts of France but a stronger and undistorted signal in northern Europe and the British Isles.\n\nCarrier frequencies on the longwave band are assigned as integer multiples of nine kHz ranging from 153 to 279 kHz. However, the Europe 1 transmitter's frequency, 183 kHz, was offset from the usual nine kHz multiples established under the Geneva Plan.\n\nFor longwave, in Felsberg, the four guyed antenna masts which were erected in 1954 and 1955 average 277 metres in height. The building where the transmitters were housed is an architecturally unusual, prestressed-concrete construction that needs no internal supporting columns. It has been designated an architectural monument by the European Union and is a protected structure.\n\nIt was reported on 23 December 2019 that an email from Lagardère Active had confirmed that the longwave service of Europe 1 would cease transmission at midnight CET on 1 January 2020.\nIn the event, Europe 1 longwave transmission ceased on 31 December 2019 at 23:30 CET.\n\n<div align=\"center\">\n\n<div align=\"left\">\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1840476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840476", "title": "Semi-Arianism", "text": "Semi-Arianism\n\nSemi-Arianism was a position regarding the relationship between God the Father and the Son of God, adopted by some 4th century Christians. Though the doctrine modified the teachings of Arianism, it still rejected the doctrine that Father, Son, and Holy Spirit are co-eternal, and of the same substance, or consubstantial, and was therefore considered to be heretical by many contemporary Christians. \"Semi-Arianism\" is a name frequently given to the Trinitarian position of the conservative majority of the Eastern Orthodox Church in the 4th century, to distinguish it from strict Arianism.\n\nArius held that the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit were three separate essences or substances (ousia or hypostases) and that the Son and Spirit derived their divinity from the Father, were created, and were inferior to the Godhead of the Father. Semi-Arians asserted that the Son was “of a similar substance” (homoiousios) as the Father but not \"of the same substance\" (homoousios). This doctrinal controversy revolved around two words that in writing differed only by a single letter but whose difference in meaning gave rise to furious contests.\n\nArianism was the view of Arius and his followers, the Arians, that Jesus was subordinate to, and of a different being (ousia) to God the Father. Arians opposed the view that the three persons of the Trinity were of one being or substance. Arianism spread among the Church of Alexandria and the Eastern Mediterranean. After the First Council of Nicaea condemned Arianism as heresy, many Christians adopted compromise views in which they remained in communion with Arians without adopting Arianism itself. Various formulae, such as the homoiousian and the homoean, were proposed to compromise between Arian teachings (\"heteroousios\") and the doctrine of one substance (\"homoousios\") asserted in the Nicene Creed.\n\nAfter the 325 Council of Nicea defeated Arianism, the greater number of the Eastern bishops, who agreed to the deposition of St. Athanasius at Tyre in 335 and received the Arians to communion at Jerusalem on their repentance, were not Arians. The Dedication Council of Antioch in 341 put forth a creed which was unexceptionable but for its omission of the Nicene formula \"of One Substance.\" Even disciples of Arius such as George, Bishop of Laodicea (335-47) and Eustathius of Sebaste (c. 356-80) joined the moderate party, and after the death of Eusebius of Nicomedia, the leaders of the court faction, Ursacius of Singidunum, Valens of Mursa and Germinius of Sirmium, were not tied to any formula, for Emperor Constantius II himself hated Arianism, though he disliked Athanasius yet more. When Marcellus of Ancyra was deposed in 336, he was succeeded by Basil. Marcellus was reinstated by the Council of Serdica and Pope Julius I in 343, but Basil was restored in 350 by Constantius, over whom he gained considerable influence. He was the leader of a council at Sirmium in 351, held against Photinus who had been a deacon at Ancyra, and the canons of this synod begin by condemning Arianism, though they do not quite come up to the Nicene standard. Basil had afterwards a disputation with the Anomoean Aëtius.\n\nAfter the defeat of Magnentius at Mursa in 351, Valens, bishop of that city, became the spiritual director of Constantius. In 355 Valens and Ursacius obtained the exile of the Western confessors Eusebius, St. Lucifer of Cagliari, St. Hilary of Poitiers, and Liberius followed. In 357 they issued the second Creed of Sirmium, or \"formula of Hosius\", in which \"homoousios\" and \"homoiousios\" were both rejected. Eudoxius, a violent Arian, seized the See of Antioch, and supported Aëtius and his disciple Eunomius.\n\nThe Third Council of Sirmium in 357 was the high point of Arianism. The Seventh Arian Confession (Second Sirmium Confession) held that both \"homoousios\" (of one substance) and \"homoiousios\" (of similar substance) were unbiblical and that the Father is greater than the Son. (This confession was later known as the Blasphemy of Sirmium.)\nBut since many persons are disturbed by questions concerning what is called in Latin \"substantia\", but in Greek \"ousia\", that is, to make it understood more exactly, as to 'coessential,' or what is called, 'like-in-essence,' there ought to be no mention of any of these at all, nor exposition of them in the Church, for this reason and for this consideration, that in divine Scripture nothing is written about them, and that they are above men's knowledge and above men's understanding;\n\nIt has been noted also that the Greek term \"homoousian\", which Athanasius of Alexandria favored, was actually a term that was reported to be put forth and favored also by Sabellius, and was a term that many followers of Athanasius took issue with and were uneasy about. The Semi-Arians also objected to the term. Their objection to the term \"homoousian\" was that it was considered to be \"un-Scriptural, suspicious, and of a Sabellian tendency.\" This was because Sabellius also considered the Father and the Son to be \"one substance\", meaning that, to Sabellius, the Father and Son were \"one essential Person\" interacting with creation as necessary.\n\nIn the Lent of 358, Basil, along with many bishops, was holding the dedicatory feast of a new church he had built at Ancyra when he received a letter from George of Laodicea, relating how Eudoxius had approved of Aëtius, and begging Macedonius of Constantinople, Basil, and the rest of the assembled bishops to decree the expulsion of Eudoxius and his followers from Antioch, else that great see were lost. In consequence, the Synod of Ancyra published a long reply addressed to George and the other bishops of Phoenicia in which they recite the Creed of Antioch (341), adding explanations against the \"unlikeness\" of the Son to the Father taught by the Arians and Anomoeans, (from \"anomoios\"), and showing that the very name of father implies a son of like substance (\"homoiousios\", or \"homoios kat ousian\") Anathematisms are appended in which Anomoeanism is explicitly condemned and the teaching of \"likeness of substance\" enforced. The nineteenth of these canons forbids the use also of \"homoousios\" and \"tautoousios\"; this may be an afterthought due to the instance of Macedonius, as Basil does not seem to have insisted on it later. Legates were dispatched to the Council at Sirmium: Basil, Eustathius of Sebaste, an ascetic of no dogmatic principles, Eleusius of Cyzicus, a follower of Macedonius, and the priest Leontius, one of the emperor's chaplains. They arrived just in time, for the emperor had been lending his ear to a Eudoxian, but he now veered round, issuing a letter (Sozomen, IV, xiv) declaring the Son to be \"like in substance\" to the Father, and condemning the Arians of Antioch.\n\nIn the mid-4th century Epiphanius stated, \"Semi-Arians... hold the view of the Son, that he was forever with the Father... but has been begotten without beginning and not in time... But all of these negate, or it has been said, blaspheme the Holy Spirit, and do not count him in the Godhead with the Father and the Son.\"\n\nAccording to Sozomen, at this point Pope Liberius was released from exile upon signing three formulæ combined by Basil. Basil persuaded Constantius to summon a general council, Ancyra being proposed, then Nicomedia (both in Asia Minor), but as the latter city was destroyed by an earthquake, Basil was again at Sirmium in 359 where the Arianizers had meanwhile regained their footing; with Germinius of Sirmium, George of Alexandria, Ursacius and Valens, and bishop (later saint) Marcus of Arethusa, he held a conference which lasted until night. A confession of faith, ridiculed under the name of the \"dated creed\", was drawn up by Marcus on 22 May (Hilary, \"Fragment. xv\"). Arianism was of course rejected, but the \"homoios kata ten ousian\" was not admitted, and the expression \"kata panta homoios\", \"like in all things\", was substituted. Basil was disappointed, and added to his signature the explanation that the words \"in all things\" meant not only in will, but in existence and being (\"kata ten hyparxin kai kata to einai\"). Not content with this, Basil, George of Laodicea and others published a joint explanation (Epiph., lxxiii, 12-22) that \"in all things\" must include \"substance\".\nThe court party arranged that two councils should be held, one at Rimini (Italy) and the other at Seleucia. At Seleucia, in 359, the Semi–Arians were in a majority, being supported by such men as St. Cyril of Jerusalem, his friend Silvanus of Tarsus and even Hilary of Poitiers, but they were unable to obtain their ends. Basil, Silvanus and Eleusius, therefore, went as envoys to Constantinople, where a council was held in 360, which followed Rimini in condemning \"homoiousios\" together with \"homoousios\" and allowed \"homoios\" alone, without addition. This new phrase was the invention of Acacius of Cæsarea, who now deserted the more extreme Arians and became leader of the new \"Homoean\" party. He procured the exile of Macedonius, Eleusius, Basil, Eustathius, Silvanus, Cyril and others.\n\nConstantius II died in 361. Under Julian the exiles returned. Basil was probably dead. Macedonius organized a party which confessed the Son to be \"kata panta homoios\", while it declared the Holy Ghost to be the minister and servant of the Father and a creature. Eleusius joined him, and so did Eustathius for a time. This remnant of the Semi-Arian party held synods at Zele and elsewhere. The accession of Jovian, who was orthodox, induced the versatile Acacius, with Meletius of Antioch and twenty-five bishops, to accept the Nicene formula, adding an explanation that the Nicene Fathers meant by \"homoousios\" merely \"homoios kat ousian\" – thus Acacius had taken up the original formula of the Semi-Arians. In 365 the Macedonians assembled at Lampsacus under the presidency of Eleusius and condemned the Councils of Ariminum and Antioch (in 360), asserting again the likeness in substance. But the threats of the Arian emperor Valens caused Eleusius to sign an Arian creed at Nicomedia in 366. He returned to his diocese full of remorse, and begged for the election of another bishop, but his diocesans refused to let him resign.\n\nThe West was at peace under Valentinian I, so the Semi-Arians sent envoys to that emperor and to the pope to get help. Pope Liberius refused to see them until they presented him with a confession of faith which included the Nicene formula. He seems to have been unaware that the party now rejected the divinity of the Holy Ghost; but this was perhaps not true of the envoys Eustathius and Silvanus. On the return of the legates, the documents they brought were received with great joy by a synod at Tyana, which embraced the Nicene faith. But another synod in Caria still refused the \"homoousion\".\n\nIn 381 the First Council of Constantinople was also called in order to attempt to deal with the binitarians who were mainly Semi-Arians then. However, as the Trinity was officially finalized at this time, the offended binitarians walked out.\n\nFor the rest of the history of the Semi-Arians (they were also called Macedonians), see Pneumatomachi.\n\nAlso, in more modern times, Semi-Arian groups are said to include non-Trinitarian groups such as Jehovah's Witnesses and Creation Seventh Day Adventists.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1840478", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840478", "title": "Nozema Zendstation, The Hague", "text": "Nozema Zendstation, The Hague\n\nNozema Zendstation The Hague is a tower of reinforced concrete at The Hague, Netherlands. Nozema Zendstation The Hague was built in 1965.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1840488", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840488", "title": "Martha Henry", "text": "Martha Henry\n\nMartha Henry, (born February 17, 1938) is an American-born Canadian stage, film, and television actress, perhaps best known for her work at the Stratford Festival in Canada.\n\nMartha Buhs was born in Detroit, Michigan to Kathleen (née Hatch) and Lloyd Howard Buhs. She grew up in Bloomfield Hills, Michigan and attended the Kingswood School (today Cranbrook Kingswood School) before moving to Canada in 1959. She later adopted the stage surname Henry, which is the legal surname of her first husband, actor Donnelly Rhodes.\n\nShe was one of the first graduates of the National Theatre School in Montreal, receiving her certificate of studies in acting exceptionally in 1962.\n\nMartha Henry's first season at the Stratford Festival was in 1962, playing Miranda to William Hutt's first Prospero in \"The Tempest\". She became a leading actress at the Stratford Festival in the late 1960s, and has since appeared in some 65 productions at the Festival, 30 of them plays by William Shakespeare. She won acclaim for several roles including Titania in \"A Midsummer Night's Dream\" (1969), Isabella in \"Measure for Measure\" (1976), Olga in \"Three Sisters\" (1976) and Paulina in \"The Winter's Tale\" (1978). Ms Henry has worked for 10 artistic directors.\n\nShe and a team of three other directors were hired to lead Stratford's 1981 season after the resignation of Artistic Director Robin Phillips. The team was dismissed a few months later, causing Henry and some other Stratford veterans to work away from the Festival for several years.\n\nMs Henry received the prestigious Stratford Legacy Award. in October 2014.\n\nIn 2018, her 44th season, at age 80, Ms Henry played Prospero in \"The Tempest\", directed by Antoni Cimolino, and was Director of the Michael Langham Workshop for Classical Direction. Chris Jones, theater critic for the \"Chicago Tribune\" in praising Henry's performance wrote, \"in all my years watching shows at this theater, a miragelike fountain of excellence . . . I have never seen anything quite like the experience of watching Henry . . .\".\n\nShe was artistic director of the Grand Theatre in London, Ontario from 1988-94. In 1993 she traveled to Guyana, South America where she starred in Darrell Wasyk's film, \"Mustard Bath\", winning a Genie Award for Best Supporting Actress. She returned to the Stratford stage to play Mary Tyrone in the widely respected 1994-95 production of \"Long Day's Journey into Night\".\n\nShe won a Best Actress Genie award for the 1996 film version that followed. In February 2007, she was appointed director of Stratford's Birmingham Conservatory for Classical Theatre Training.\n\nShe was made an Officer of the Order of Canada in 1981, and promoted to Companion in 1990. She was made a Member of the Order of Ontario in 1994. Henry received a Governor General's Performing Arts Award for her lifetime contribution to Canadian theatre in 1996. As a recipient of the Order of Canada She has been awarded the 125th Anniversary of the Confederation of Canada Medal in 1992, the Canadian Version of the Queen Elizabeth II Golden Jubilee Medal in 2002 and the Canadian Version of the Queen Elizabeth II Diamond Jubilee Medal in 2012.\n\nNotable television roles include Catherine in \"Empire, Inc.\", the Prime Minister's mother in \"H20\" and the owner of the Chateau Rousseau in Ken Finkleman's \"At the Hotel\". In 1994, she starred in the TV film \"And Then There was One\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1840489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840489", "title": "Anti H-Block", "text": "Anti H-Block\n\nAnti H-Block was the political label used in 1981 by supporters of the Irish republican hunger strike who were standing for election in both Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland. \"H-Block\" was a metonym for the Maze Prison, within whose H-shaped blocks the hunger strike was taking place.\n\nBobby Sands, the first of these hunger strikers, was nominated in the Westminster April 1981 by-election in Fermanagh and South Tyrone. After his victory and death, the Representation of the People Act was passed to prevent convicted prisoners serving sentences of more than one year from standing for Parliament in the United Kingdom, so Owen Carron, Sands' agent, stood as an \"Anti-H-Block Proxy Political Prisoner\" and won the seat in the subsequent by-election.\n\nIn the Republic of Ireland's general election in June 1981 twelve candidates ran under the Anti H-Block banner, nine of whom were prisoners. Kieran Doherty and Paddy Agnew won seats in Cavan–Monaghan and Louth respectively, while both Joe McDonnell and Martin Hurson narrowly missed election in Sligo–Leitrim and Longford–Westmeath . Eamonn Sweeney noted that: \n\nThe successes of the Anti H-Block movement galvanised the Irish republican movement, and led to the entry the following year into mainstream electoral politics of Sinn Féin.\n\nNine candidates were officially endorsed by the Anti H-Block committee, eight of which were imprisoned at the time. Three other candidates also ran as Anti H-Block candidates, but it is unknown whether they received formal backing.\n\nEndorsed candidates:\n\nOther candidates:\n\nPaddy Healy served as Secretary of the National H-Block Trade Union Committee; he resigned in protest at the winding-down of the campaign in the Republic of Ireland following the death of Bobby Sands, despite several remaining on hunger strike and subsequently dying.\n"}
{"id": "1840493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840493", "title": "American Indian Exposition", "text": "American Indian Exposition\n\nThe American Indian Exposition, held annually during the first full week in August at the Caddo County Fairgrounds in Anadarko, Oklahoma, is one of the oldest and largest intertribal gatherings in the United States. Sponsored by fifteen tribes (Apache, Arapaho, Caddo, Cheyenne, Comanche, Delaware, Fort Sill Apache, Iowa, Kiowa, Osage, Otoe-Missouri, Pawnee, Ponca, Sac & Fox, and Wichita), representatives from up to fifty other tribes participate in any given year.\n\nThe Exposition began with the \"All-Indian Fair\" first held in 1924. It was the successor to the Craterville Park Indian Fair, which had been held from 1924 through 1933 near Cache, Oklahoma. A group of people calling themselves the Southwest Indian Fair (SWIF) had met after the Caddo County Free Fair in 1935 to discuss their dissatisfaction with the Craterville Park demonstrations of Indian culture, which they felt was too ethnocentric and white-oriented. They felt that the Indian participants were treated as merely figureheads. The leaders of SWIF wanted to separate the dance performances from the county fair, and wanted the Caddo County Free Fair board to give them creative and management freedom over the production. In 1935 it was incorporated as the \"American Indian Exposition\" with the stated purpose of \"\"promoting and retaining Indian cultural life, handicrafts, arts, crafts, and farming and livestock skills by providing a yearly showcase\"\".\n\nThe Exposition features a week-long program of dance contests, parades, pageants (Indian Princess, Beautiful Baby), sporting events such as softball as well as arts and crafts contests. The fairgrounds also provides camping accommodations for the participants. Nearby is the Southern Plains Indian Museum, the American Indian Hall of Fame, and Indian City USA.\n\nThe title \"Miss American Indian Exposition,\" came into existence in the 1930s, when a young woman, Imogene Carter, was selected to represent the AIE. The event has been reintroduced many times, and the requirements have undergone several changes. In 2015, the AIE Board retired the title until it could reassess the qualifications and other requirements. In January, 2016, AIE reinstated this aspect of the program. It opened competition to any young American Indian woman who wished to enter. Previously, competition was limited to actual tribal princesses. To promote education, the title holder would be expected to serve as a mentor for young women, and the winner each year would receive a scholarship. The winner of the 2016 competition is Marquela Pewewardy, who is 17 years old and whose mother is Kiowa and whose father is Comanche.She plans to enroll in Oklahoma University, when she graduates from Elgin High School.\n\n"}
{"id": "1840495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840495", "title": "List of Ohio locations by per capita income", "text": "List of Ohio locations by per capita income\n\nOhio is the twenty-second-wealthiest state in the United States of America, with a per capita income of $21,003 (2000).\n\nNote: Data is from the 2010 United States Census Data and the 2006-2010 American Community Survey 5-Year Estimates.\n"}
{"id": "1840504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840504", "title": "Twilight Sentinel", "text": "Twilight Sentinel\n\nOn an automobile, Twilight Sentinel is a device on General Motors' cars that senses outside light and turns the exterior lights on and off depending on lighting conditions.\n\nIn addition, Twilight Sentinel also allows the driver to set a timer (located with the headlight switch) that delays shutting off the headlights for a specified time period, usually up to three minutes. The driver can park the vehicle, shut off the car's engine and exit the automobile after dark, then use the headlights to light the path into a nearby building, such as a house, before the system shuts the headlights off automatically.\n\nAn electric photocell located in the dashboard detects the environmental lighting conditions and activates the headlights as needed. Usually, this means turning on the headlights at dusk and shutting them off after sunrise. The system requires that a change in the environmental lighting conditions remains consistent for approximately 10 seconds before a change in the headlights is activated. For example, during daylight hours, the headlights would not turn on due to the momentary darkness of driving under a bridge or through a short tunnel. \nnor does it turn on the exterior lights for driving conditions such as heavy rain or fog (however in some newer versions of the system, Twilight Sentinel is linked to GM's RainSense automatic windshield wiper system to turn lights on automatically when the wipers are on).\n\nTwilight Sentinel was first offered exclusively on the 1955 Cadillac lineup but was expanded to other divisions in the early 1960’s. \n\nA related feature offered on many General Motors models during the 1950s and 1960s was the Autronic Eye headlight dimming system (which did just that). Cadillac later referred to its automatic dimming system as \"Guidematic Headlamp Control\" which encompassed Twilight Sentinel and Dimming Sentinel controls. (See Discussion Page)\n\nFord Motor Company offers a nearly identical exterior lights on/off/delay shut-off system called \"AutoLamp\". The Ford automatic headlamp system could be had with automatic dimming on Lincoln models . Chrysler offered Twilight Sentinel on its Imperial model from 1967 to 1975; other full-size C-body Chrysler products from the mid-sixties to the mid-seventies had it as an option as well.\n"}
{"id": "1840506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840506", "title": "Alan Dicks", "text": "Alan Dicks\n\nAlan Dicks (born 29 August 1934) is an English retired footballer and football manager. He managed Bristol City for thirteen years and managed clubs in four countries on three continents.\n\nBorn in London, he signed for Chelsea at the age of 17, though his playing time in the first team was limited to 35 matches in six years, during this time he completed his two years national service with the RAF and so only played one game in Chelsea's 1954–55 championship season. In 1958 he moved to Southend United, and in 1962 joined Coventry City as assistant manager/coach under Jimmy Hill.\n\nIn 1967 Hill recommended him for the vacant manager's job at Bristol City. He took the job at the age of just 33, and held it for thirteen years. In that time he consolidated City's position in the Second Division, and eventually, in 1976, led them to promotion to the First Division – then English football's top flight. During his spell as manager the club also made the semi-finals of the 1971 League Cup and won the 1978 Anglo-Scottish Cup. Dicks remained as manager throughout City's four-year stay in Division 1, but relegation and a poor start to the following season saw him leave in October 1980. Subsequently, City suffered three relegations in as many years.\n\nDicks also managed Ethnikos Piraeus in Greece, Apollon Limassol in Cyprus and in Qatar (where he won the championship with Al-Rayyan Sports Club).\n\nHe managed Fulham for one season in 1990–91 having been initially recruited to help manager Ray Lewington. It was his first job back in English football for over a decade. The team's performance was poor. They finished 21st in the league (a position which normally would have seen them relegated to Division Four, though they were saved from this fate thanks to league restructuring) and were eliminated from the FA Cup by non-league side Hayes. Things appeared to be going better in the following season, but a run of five successive defeats near the end of 1991 saw him sacked.\n\nAfter leaving Fulham he moved to the United States and subsequently became head coach of Carolina Dynamo and then Charleston Battery in the A-League.\n"}
{"id": "1840508", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840508", "title": "Prisoner abuse", "text": "Prisoner abuse\n\nPrisoner abuse is the mistreatment of persons while they are under arrest or incarcerated, therefore deprived of the right of self-defense against acting authorities and generally defenseless.\n\nAbuse falling into this category includes:\n--According to the New York Times, along with physical abuse, prisoners are being thrown into jail for mental illnesses that they obtain and not being treated for them. This causes their issues to get worse and in some cases never get better. Also, relating to physical abuse the mentally ill can be thrown into restrained areas for a long amount of time because of their mental condition, this means that these mentally ill people do not have the resources to get better in the jail. \n\n--This is also caused by overpopulation in jails. Penal Reform International claims, that overcrowding in the main source of poor jail conditions globally. This caused overcrowding and understaffing: one of the reasons why there can sometimes be 2-3 people in the same jail cell for a long period of time. This causes a lack of privacy and because the jails are so overcrowded some minor cases are cut from the justice system altogether. \n\n--According to the Marshall Plan, there are also many gangs that are formed in different prisons which cause chaos and force the jail to go through many lockdowns which are a vulnerable time for the prison guards especially when they are understaffed. It also says that the prisoners and the prison guards have to be safe, which caused the guards to be defensive and sometimes abusive.\n\n\n--According to Reflexions, prison can alter people's bodily dimensions, their emotional wellbeing, and possibly change their perception for an extended amount of time. It also claims that not only does the prison environment make mental disorders worst but also may cause them. The type of prison environment can be cruel and if the prisoner does not have the mental, emotional, and physical willpower they will struggle very greatly. \n\n\n\n\nThe endless playing of random static (similar to that of unused TV frequencies) with no pattern; this can cause extreme discomfort and disorientation.\n\nPrisoners may be subject to taunting, heckling, profanity, and malicious lies by prison authorities. Guards and other authorities may use verbal abuse as a means of frightening or demoralizing prisoners to make them more compliant, or simply out of sadism.\n\nPrisoners are sometimes intentionally housed with inmates known to have raped other prisoners, or protection from known rapists may be purposely withheld from the prisoners. These practices create a very high incidence of rape in US prisons, which was the topic of the 2001 report No Escape from Human Rights Watch.\n\n"}
{"id": "1840510", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840510", "title": "S-TEC", "text": "S-TEC\n\nS-TEC may refer to:\n"}
{"id": "1840511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840511", "title": "Tahar Djaout", "text": "Tahar Djaout\n\nTahar Djaout (January 11, 1954 – June 2, 1993) was an Algerian journalist, poet, and fiction writer. He was assassinated in 1993 by the Armed Islamic Group.\n\nHe was born in 1954 in Oulkhou, a village in the Kabylie region. After university he worked as a journalist for \"Algérie Actualité\", and by the late 1980s, he became one of Algeria's foremost literary talents.\n\nHe was assassinated by the Armed Islamic Group because of his support of secularism and opposition to what he considered fanaticism. He was attacked on May 26, 1993, as he was leaving his home in Algiers, Algeria. He died on June 2, after lying in a coma for a week. One of his attackers professed that he was murdered because he \"wielded a fearsome pen that could have an effect on Islamic sectors.\"\n\nAfter his death the BBC made a documentary about him entitled 'Shooting the Writer', introduced by Salman Rushdie.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1840514", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840514", "title": "Expedition of the Thousand", "text": "Expedition of the Thousand\n\nThe Expedition of the Thousand () was an event of the Italian Risorgimento that took place in 1860. A corps of volunteers led by Giuseppe Garibaldi sailed from Quarto, near Genoa (now Quarto dei Mille) and landed in Marsala, Sicily, in order to conquer the Kingdom of the Two Sicilies, ruled by the House of Bourbon-Two Sicilies.\n\nThe project was an ambitious and risky venture aiming to conquer, with a thousand men, a kingdom with a larger regular army and a more powerful navy. The expedition was a success and concluded with a plebiscite that brought Naples and Sicily into the Kingdom of Sardinia, the last territorial conquest before the creation of the Kingdom of Italy on 17 March 1861.\n\nThe sea venture was the only desired action that was jointly decided by the \"four fathers of the nation\" Giuseppe Mazzini, Giuseppe Garibaldi, Victor Emmanuel II, and Camillo Cavour, pursuing divergent goals. However, the Expedition was instigated by Francesco Crispi, who utilized his political influence to bolster the Italian unification project.\n\nThe various groups participated in the expedition for a variety of reasons: for Garibaldi, it was to achieve a united Italy; to the Sicilian bourgeoisie, an independent Sicily as part of the kingdom of Italy, and for common people, land distribution and the end of oppression.\n\nThe events of the Expedition took place within the overall process of the unification of Italy, which was largely orchestrated by Camillo Cavour, Prime Minister of Sardinia-Piedmont, as his life's work. After the annexation of the Grand Duchy of Tuscany, the Duchies of Modena and Parma and the Romagna to Piedmont in March 1860, Italian nationalists set their sights on the Kingdom of the Two Sicilies, which comprised all of southern mainland Italy and Sicily, as the next step toward their dream of unification of all Italian lands.\n\nIn 1860 Garibaldi, already the most famous Italian revolutionary leader, was in Genoa planning an expedition against Sicily and Naples, with the covert support of the United Kingdom. Sicilian leaders, among them Francesco Crispi, were discontented with Neapolitan rule over the island. Moreover, Britain was worried by the approaches of the Neapolitans towards the Russian Empire in the latter's attempt to open its way to the Mediterranean Sea; the strategic importance of the Sicilian ports was also to be dramatically increased by the opening of the Suez Canal. It has been also suggested (by Lorenzo del Boca, among the others) that British support for Garibaldi's expedition was spurred by the necessity to obtain more favourable economic conditions for Sicilian sulfur, which was needed in great quantities for munitions.\n\nThe Kingdom of Sardinia-Piedmont needed a presentable casus belli in order to attack the Kingdom of the Two Sicilies. This was needed for the House of Savoy, which however never gave any declaration of war against the Bourbon kingdom, a necessary condition, since this was among the requirements presented to Cavour. The only occurrence that would have satisfied this requirement was an uprising from within. Such an event would have felt the alienation of the people to the dynasty that ruled in Naples and, particularly, the inability of Francis of Bourbon, to ensure, in forms acceptable public policy in their domains. Sicily, as shown by the history of the past decades, was fertile ground, and the liberal south, especially those returning after an amnesty granted by the young King, who worked in this direction for some time.\n\nIn March 1860, exile Rosolino Pilo exhorted Giuseppe Garibaldi to take charge of an expedition to liberate Southern Italy from Bourbon rule. At first, Garibaldi was against it, but eventually agreed. By May 1860, Garibaldi had collected 1,089 volunteers for his expedition to Sicily.\n\nThe largest number of volunteers came from Lombardy (434 volunteers), Other significant numbers of volunteers came from \"occupied\" Venetia (194 volunteers), Genoa (156 volunteers), and Tuscany (78 volunteers). There were about 45 Sicilian volunteers and 46 Neapolitan volunteers—but only 11 from Rome and the Papal States. 33 foreigners joined the expedition, amongst them István Türr and three other Hungarians and 14 Italians from the Trentino of the Austrian Empire. The majority of the volunteers were students and artisans from the lower classes.\n\nThe 1,089 volunteers were poorly armed with dated muskets and were dressed in a minimalist uniform—consisting of a red shirt and grey trousers.\n\nDuring the night of 5 May, a small group led by Nino Bixio \"seized\" two steamships in Genoa from the Rubattino shipping company (which the ships were actually secretly granted by the company, but done in such approach to prevent taking any responsibility by plausible deniability) in order to transport the volunteers to Sicily. They took the two ships, which they had renamed \"Il Piemonte\" and \"Il Lombardo\", to the nearby rocks at Quarto dei Mille, Genoa, where the volunteers (including Francesco Crispi's wife, Rosalia) embarked for Sicily.\n\nThe ships were then accompanied by the British Royal Navy which consisted of HMS \"Hannibal\" followed by the gunboats \"Argus\" and \"Intrepid\" under the command of Admiral Rodney Mundy. They landed at Marsala, on the westernmost point of Sicily, on 11 May. With British ships present in the harbour thus deterred the Bourbon ships from interfering. The \"Lombardo\" was attacked and sunk only after the disembarkation had been completed, while the \"Piemonte\" was captured. The landing had been preceded by the arrival of Francesco Crispi and others, who had the task of gaining the support of the locals for the volunteers.\n\nOn 14 May, at Salemi, Garibaldi announced that he was assuming dictatorship over Sicily in the name of King Victor Emmanuel II of Sardinia.\n\nThe \"Mille\" won a first battle at Calatafimi against around 2,000 Neapolitan troops on 15 May. The battle boosted the morale of the \"Mille\" and, at the same time, depressed the Neapolitans, who were poorly led by their often corrupted higher officers, and started to feel themselves abandoned. Having promised land to every male who volunteered to fight against the Bourbons the ranks of the \"Mille\" enlarged to 1,200 with local men. On 27 May, with the help of a popular insurrection, the \"Mille\" laid siege to Palermo, the island's capital. The city was defended by some 16,000 men, but these were under the confused and timid direction of general Ferdinando Lanza, aged 75 (probably one of the Neapolitan officers bribed with English money).\n\nWhile two columns of Garibaldines attacked the perimeter, part of the population, strengthened by 2,000 prisoners liberated from the local jails, rose against the garrison. When his troops were driven back from most of their positions, Lanza ordered them to bombard the city for three days, causing the deaths of 600 civilians. By 28 May Garibaldi controlled much of the city and declared the Bourbon authority deposed. The following day a desperate Neapolitan counteroffensive was driven back, and Lanza asked for a truce. However, when a reinforcement party of well equipped and well trained troops arrived in the city, the situation became very serious for Garibaldi, who was saved only by Lanza's decision to surrender. Through the mediation of a British admiral, an armistice was signed and the Neapolitan fleet abandoned the port.\n\nThe Bourbon troops were ordered to retreat eastwards and evacuate the island. An insurrection that had broken out in Catania on 31 May, led by Nicola Fabrizi, was crushed by the local garrison, but the order to leave for Messina meant that this Neapolitan tactical success would have no practical results.\n\nAt the time only Syracuse, Augusta, Milazzo and Messina remained in royal hands in Sicily. In the meantime Garibaldi issued his first law. A levy failed to muster more than 20,000 troops, while the peasants, who hoped to an immediate relief from the grievous conditions to which they were forced by the landowners, revolted in several localities. At Bronte, on 4 August 1860, Garibaldi's friend Nino Bixio bloodily repressed one of these revolts with two battalions of Redshirts.\n\nThe pace of Garibaldi's victories had worried Cavour, who in early July sent him a proposal of immediate annexation of Sicily to Piedmont. Garibaldi, however, refused vehemently to allow such a move until the end of the war. Cavour's envoy, La Farina, was arrested and expelled from the island. He was replaced by the more malleable Agostino Depretis, who gained Garibaldi's trust and was appointed as pro-dictator.\n\nOn 25 June 1860, King Francis II of the Two Sicilies had issued a constitution. However, this late attempt to conciliate his moderate subjects failed to rouse them to defend the regime, while liberals and revolutionaries were eager to welcome Garibaldi.\n\nAt the time, Garibaldi had created the \"Esercito Meridionale\" (\"Southern Army\"), reinforced by other volunteers from Italy and some regular Piedmontese soldiers disguised as \"deserters\". The Neapolitans had mustered some 24,000 men for the defence of Messina and the other fortresses.\n\nOn 20 July Garibaldi attacked Milazzo with 5,000 men. The Neapolitan defence was gallant, but again the absence of coordination and the refusal of Marshal Clary, commander-in-chief of the army in the island, to send reinforcements from Messina granted the Mille another victory. Six days later Clary surrendered the city of Messina to Garibaldi, leaving only 4,000 in the citadel and other forts. The other strongholds surrendered by the end of September.\n\nOn 19 August Garibaldi's men disembarked in Calabria, a move opposed by Cavour, who had written the Dictator a letter urging him to not cross the strait. Garibaldi, however, disobeyed, an act which had the silent approval of King Victor Emmanuel.\n\nThe Bourbons had some 20,000 men in Calabria, but, apart from some episodes like that of Reggio Calabria, which was conquered at high cost by Bixio on 21 August, they offered insignificant resistance, as numerous units of the Bourbon army disbanded spontaneously or even joined Garibaldi's ranks. On 30 August a conspicuous Sicilian army, led by general Ghio, was officially disbanded at Soveria Mannelli, while only minor and dispersed units continued the fight. The Neapolitan fleet behaved in a similar way.\n\nKing Francis II was thus forced to abandon Naples and entrench himself in the formidable fortress of Gaeta, while a last stand was set up on the Volturno river, north of Naples. On 7 September Garibaldi took possession of Naples with little harm (he entered the city by train), hailed as a liberator by the population.\n\nIn the meantime the Kingdom of Sardinia invaded the Papal States conquering Central Italy (Lazio excluded) through few battles such as the Battle of Castelfidardo, and entered the Kingdom of Two Sicilies joining Giuseppe Garibaldi.\n\nIn the indecisive Battle of the Volturnus (1 and 2 October), Garibaldi, with a force of 24,000 men, was not able to conclusively defeat the Neapolitan Army (about 25,000 men). Only the arrival of the Sardinian army obliged the last organized Bourbon force to entrench in Gaeta.\n\nA few days later (21 October) a plebiscite confirmed the annexation of the Kingdom of the Two Sicilies to the Kingdom of Sardinia by an overwhelming majority.\n\nThe end of the expedition is traditionally set with the famous meeting in Teano (northern Campania) between Victor Emmanuel and Garibaldi (26 October 1860). Others assign instead the end of the campaign to the King's entrance into Naples on 7 November.\n\nHowever, the military campaign was not yet fully completed, as Francis II held out in Gaeta until February of the next year, when he finally surrendered to the Sardinian army led by Enrico Cialdini, and left for exile in the Papal States. Shortly thereafter, in March 1861, the new Kingdom of Italy (\"Regno d'Italia\") was formally established.\n\nGaribaldi asked the King to remain in the former Two Sicilies for a year as dictator. He also asked that his officers be integrated in the new Italian Army. When Victor Emmanuel refused to grant the dictator his request but agreed to integrate the men and officers, he returned to Caprera.\n\nThe Expedition of the Thousand has traditionally been one of the most celebrated events of the Italian Risorgimento, the process of the unification of Italy.\n\nIn the following years, the rise of local resistance (the so-called \"brigantaggio\" or brigandage), required at one point the presence of some 140,000 Piedmontese troops to maintain control of the former Kingdom of the Two Sicilies. Traditionally, the handling of the \"brigantaggio\" has received a negative judgement by Italian historians, in strict contrast with the heroism attributed to Garibaldi and his followers; the English historian Denis Mack Smith, for example, points out the deficiencies and reticence of the sources available for the period 1861–1946, but the same historian also pointed out the backwardness of the Kingdom of the Two Sicilies at the time of the unification.\n\nThe expedition, moreover, obtained the support of the powerful great landowners of southern Italy in exchange for the promise that their properties be left intact in the upcoming political settlement. Numerous Sicilian peasants, however, had joined the Mille hoping instead for a redistribution of the land to the people working it. The consequences of this misunderstanding became evident at Bronte.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1840517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840517", "title": "Bravehearts", "text": "Bravehearts\n\nBravehearts are an East Coast hip hop group from New York, New York. The group's roster originally included Jungle (born Jabari Jones, son of jazz trumpeter Olu Dara, and younger brother of hip hop star Nas), Wiz (born Mike Epps), and Horse (born E. Gray). Horse left the group in 2002, and Jungle and Wiz carried on as a duo. Wiz was in turn replaced by Nashawn, Nas's cousin.\n\nSigned to Columbia Records as part of Nas's Ill Will Records imprint, Bravehearts first emerged in 1998, collaborating with Nas, Nature, and Trackmasters on \"I Wanna Live,\" a song on the soundtrack to the Hype Williams film \"Belly\". From there, the Nas protégés moved on to the \"Nas & Ill Will Records Presents QB's Finest\" compilation album, and saw their track \"Oochie Wally\" go gold. Jungle and Wiz then began working on their full-length debut for Columbia Records. In the meantime, they appeared on 50 Cent's mixtape-style compilation \"Guess Who's Back?\", supporting 50 Cent and Nas on the track \"Who U Rep With.\"\n\nThe group's debut full-length album \"Bravehearted\" was released in December 2003 with Jungle and Wiz making up the core group. The album featured guest appearances from Nas, Nashawn, Lil Jon, Jully Black and Teedra Moses, and the group scored a hit single with the Lil Jon-produced track \"Quick to Back Down\". There may also have been a slight diss at 50 Cent on track 5 called \"Bravehearted\" on their album and Jungle also takes a shot at Jay-Z. Jungle states in his verse: \"Jungle will live by the morals of the street, not like snitch C.J. or bitch Jay-Z.\" Recently Jungle was featured on a diss track on G-Unit and The Diplomats with rapper Q-Butta called \"Gun On Me.\" In 2009, Nashawn appeared twice on Memphis rapper C-Rock's album \"Tha Weight Is Over\". He was featured on the track \"Street Niggaz\", which is a diss to Juelz Santana/Jim Jones, and on the track \"We Dons\".\n\nIn 2008, they released their second album, \"Bravehearted 2\", with Jungle and Nashawn making up the core group.\n\nIn 2019, Jungle started his own record label; Street Dreams Record, following in his brothers Nas' footsteps with Mass Appeal Records. The first artist signed to the label was Kiing Shooter.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1840518", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840518", "title": "Don Mackay", "text": "Don Mackay\n\nDonald Scrimgeour Mackay (born 19 March 1940) is a Scottish former professional football player and manager.\n\nAfter a spell coaching the Bristol City youth team between 1974 and 1978, where he was part of the backroom staff that won promotion to the then English First Division, he began his management career in Denmark with Nørresundby managing the local side Norresundby, gaining promotion in his first season there. He returned to Scotland in 1980 when he was appointed manager of Dundee, winning promotion to the Scottish Premier Division with the club, again in his first season in charge. After several high-profile departures from the Dundee first team, Mackay eventually left the club in 1983.\nAfter a short time away from the game, Bobby Gould approached him to be his assistant at Coventry City. Bobby was sacked after a poor run of results and Don was asked to take charge, where the club staved off relegation by famously winning their last three games of the season, to retain their First Division Status.\n\nFollowing the sack at Coventry, Mackay went to work as reserve-team coach at Rangers, alongside ex playing colleague Walter Smith and the manager Graeme Souness. Despite a successful spell at Rangers, Mackay wanted to manage in his own right, and therefore moved onto Blackburn Rovers. They narrowly missed the play-offs in his first season in charge, but did win the Full Members Cup, beating First Division Chelsea, Oxford United and Charlton Athletic along the way.\n\nIn the next two seasons at Blackburn they made the play offs, losing out on promotion both times. Following a relatively poor final season in charge (1990–91), he was relieved of his position early in the next season and went on to manage Fulham. His first season at Fulham was promising but results deteriorated the following year and following a defeat at Leyton Orient he was dismissed, results did not improve and Fulham were eventually relegated to the Fourth Division.\nMackay then worked as a scout for Arsenal, where he discovered the young Freddie Ljungberg. Mackay then had a stint as chief scout of St Johnstone. He then teamed up with Steve Archibald at Airdrie. Despite the financial difficulties experienced by the club, they won the Scottish Challenge Cup in their only season in charge.\nHe was employed by Middlesbrough as a scout from December 2001 through to June 2007, before moving to join Leicester City under Martin Allen. His role as sporting director was short-lived, however.\n\nHe was a goalkeeper and played for Forfar Athletic and made 104 appearances. He was then signed for Dundee United by Jerry Kerr, for whom he made 243 appearances. This is still the second most appearances made by a goalkeeper for Dundee Utd, behind keeping legend Hamish McAlpine. He was then given a free transfer by Jim McLean, after ten years of loyal service to the Utd cause, where he finished his 16-year professional playing career with Southend United after 13 appearances.\n\n"}
{"id": "1840519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840519", "title": "Strawberry Trail", "text": "Strawberry Trail\n\nThe Strawberry Trail is a 15-mile footpath through Hampshire, England\n\nThe trail is part linear and part circular. The linear section connects Botley to Bursledon railway station via Manor Farm Country Park. The circular section is usually done in a clockwise direction. From Bursledon railway station the trail goes south closely following the River Hamble and through Hamble until it meets Southampton Water. The trail then turns right and follows the shoreline into Royal Victoria Country Park. The path exits the Country Park next to the tearooms and twists and turns along a short nature trail until it meets the Hamble Rail Trail. The path continues North along \"Hound Road\" then crosses farmland, turns right at a recreation ground, and returns to the railway station via the outskirts of Bursledon.\n\nThere are numerous pay car parks in the area, however it is recommended that walkers use the free car park just off \"Mortimer Road\" near Botley High Street.\n\nIn summer a ferry service operates between Hamble and Manor Farm Country Park.\n\nThe rural parts of the trail are waymarked in the clockwise direction by metal and plastic disks found attached to wooden and metal posts, trees and street furniture. However, there are very few markers within the Royal Victoria Country Park and on the section that passes through the outskirts of Bursledon.\n\n"}
{"id": "1840520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840520", "title": "Radha Soami Satsang Beas", "text": "Radha Soami Satsang Beas\n\nRadha Soami Satsang Beas (RSSB) is an organization dedicated to a process of inner development under the guidance of a spiritual teacher. The present teacher is Gurinder Singh, who lives with his family at the main centre in northern India. The main centre of RSSB is at Dera Baba Jaimal Singh Ji, located on the banks of the Beas River, in the northern India state of Punjab. Although RSSB is not defined as a religion, the organization's fundamental teachings are not in direct conflict with those of other world faiths.\n\nRSSB was founded in India in 1891 and steadily began spreading to other countries. Today, RSSB holds satsangs or teachings in more than 90 countries worldwide. It is a non-profit organisation with no affiliation to any political or commercial organizations. It owns a number of properties worldwide called Science of the Soul Study Centres, where meetings are held. The centres are constructed and maintained primarily by volunteers. \n\nThe group teaches a personal path of spiritual development which includes a vegetarian diet, abstinence from intoxicants, a moral way of life and the practice of daily meditation. There are no rituals, ceremonies, hierarchies or mandatory contributions, nor are there compulsory gatherings. Members do not need to give up their cultural identity or religious preference to follow this path.\n\n\"Radha Soami\" is a Hindi expression meaning \"Lord of the Soul\" in English. \"Satsang\" means 'association with Truth' and describes a group that seeks truth.\n\nAt the core of the RSSB beliefs is that there is a spiritual purpose to human life, to experience the divinity of God who resides within all of us. It is through this experience that we will realize the truth that there is only one God and we are all expressions of his love.\n\nCentral to the RSSB philosophy is a spiritual teacher who explains the purpose of life and guides and instructs members in a method of spirituality based on a daily meditation practice. By performing the meditation practice according to the teacher's instructions, individuals can realize the presence of God within themselves. It is a solitary practice that is done in the quiet of one's own home. Members commit themselves to a way of life that supports spiritual growth while carrying out their responsibilities to family, friends and society.\n\nTo build on the primary spiritual practice of meditation, members are lacto-vegetarian, abstain from alcohol and recreational drugs, and are expected to lead a life of high moral values. The lacto-vegetarian diet encourages respect and empathy for all life and acknowledges that there is a debt to be paid for taking any life both necessarily and unnecessarily. Abstaining from intoxicants improves one's ability to concentrate and calms the mind during meditation. Members are encouraged to be self-supporting and not be a burden on society. They are free to make their own choices in life and maintain any cultural or religious affiliations they choose. RSSB does not involve itself in the personal lives of its members. None of the Radha Soami teaching suggests the change of one's religion.\n\nThe Beas lineage is:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1840523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840523", "title": "List of South Carolina locations by per capita income", "text": "List of South Carolina locations by per capita income\n\nSouth Carolina is the thirty-seventh-richest state in the United States of America, with a per capita income of $18,795 (2000).\n\nNote: Data is from the 2010 United States Census Data and the 2006–2010 American Community Survey 5-Year Estimates.\n"}
{"id": "1840529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840529", "title": "Roger Garland", "text": "Roger Garland\n\nRoger Garland (born February 1933) is an Irish environmental activist and a former Green Party politician. He was the Green Party's first candidate to be elected to Dáil Éireann, representing Dublin South from 1989 to 1992.\n\nGarland was educated at Castleknock College in Dublin. \n\nHe stood for the Green Party in the 1989 general election, and was elected to represent Dublin South, becoming the party's first ever TD. Garland lost his seat in the 1992 general election with a dramatic fall in his vote, dropping from 8.8% in 1989 to 3.8%, which was among the lowest votes for a sitting TD.\n\nAt the 1994 European Parliament election, Garland backed an independent Green candidate Peter Sweetman, over the official Green candidate, Nuala Ahern, in the Leinster constituency. Ahern went on to win the seat, to the surprise of many, and an attempt was made to throw Garland out of the party for his disloyalty, including vote in a specially convened party council. Following the 2007 general election Garland was one of the leading internal critics of the Greens' decision to enter coalition with Fianna Fáil.\n\nIn 1997 he helped found Friends of the Irish Environment, which is a network of Independent Environmentalists, along with other environmental activists Tony Lowes, David Healy, Peter Sweetman, and Sarah Dillon. He is currently chairman of the Keep Ireland Open (KIO) group. He is also a current member of the environmental board of An Taisce the National Trust For Ireland, its most influential environmental body.\n"}
{"id": "1840533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840533", "title": "Ian Branfoot", "text": "Ian Branfoot\n\nIan Grant Branfoot (born Gateshead, 26 January 1947) is an English former footballer and manager.\n\nHe played as a defender, and after starting at Gateshead joined Sheffield Wednesday, making his Football League debut in 1965. After 42 senior appearances for the club he left in 1969–70 for Doncaster Rovers. He made over 150 League appearances for Rovers, and after moving to Lincoln City in 1973–74, he went on to make over 150 league appearances for the Imps as well.\n\nBranfoot was manager of Reading from 31 January 1984 to 23 October 1989. He must rank as one of Reading's most successful managers, leading Reading to promotion from Division 4 to Division 3 in 1984 based on the good work of Maurice Evans, and then promotion from Division 3 to Division 2 as champions in 1986. This last achievement included a record breaking start to the season of 13 straight wins. The club maintained a 13th position the next season but were relegated in 1988. However, in the same season that they won the Full Members Cup beating Luton Town 4-1 at Wembley.\n\nHe became manager of Southampton in June 1991, remaining in this position until January 1994. He then managed Fulham between 1994 and 1996. Branfoot later had a spell at Sunderland as academy director and at Leeds United as a scout. He also coached at Winchester College.\n\n"}
{"id": "1840537", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840537", "title": "List of Tennessee locations by per capita income", "text": "List of Tennessee locations by per capita income\n\nTennessee is the thirty-fifth-richest state in the United States of America, with a per capita income of $28,764 (2017).\n\nNote: Data is from the 2010 United States Census Data and the 2006–2010 American Community Survey 5-Year Estimates.\n"}
{"id": "1840543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840543", "title": "Lillooet language", "text": "Lillooet language\n\nLillooet , known in the language itself as ' / ' (), is the language of the St’át’imc, a Salishan language of the Interior branch spoken in southern British Columbia, Canada, around the middle Fraser and Lillooet Rivers. The language of the Lower Lillooet people uses the name ', because ' means \"the language of the people of \"Sat̓\"\", i.e. the Upper Lillooet of the Fraser River.\n\nLillooet is an endangered language with as few as 200 native speakers practically all of whom are over 60 years of age (Gordon 2005).\n\nSt'at'imcets has two main dialects:\n\n\nUpper St'at'imcets is spoken around Fountain, Pavilion, Lillooet, and neighboring areas. Lower St'at'imcets is spoken around Mount Currie and neighboring areas. An additional subdialect called Skookumchuck is spoken within the Lower St'at'imcets dialect area, but there is no information available in van Eijk (1981, 1997) (which are the main references for this article). A common usage used by the bands of the Lower Lillooet River below Lillooet Lake is \"Ucwalmicwts\".\n\nThe \"Clao7alcw\" (Raven's Nest) language nest program at Mount Currie, home of the Lil’wat, is conducted in the Lil’wat language and was the focus of Onowa McIvor's Master's thesis.\n\nAs of 2014, \"the Coastal Corridor Consortium— an entity made up of board members from First Nations and educational partners to improve aboriginal access to and performance in postsecondary education and training— ... [has] developed a Lil’wat-language program.\"\n\nSt'at'imcets has 44 consonants:\n\n\nSt'at'imcets has 8 vowels:\n\n\n\nPost-velar Harmony (retraction):\n\n\nThere are two orthographies, one based on Americanist Phonetic Notation that was developed by the Mount Currie School and used by the Lillooet Council, and a modification by Bouchard that is used by the Upper St̓át̓imc Language, Culture and Education Society. The latter orthography is unusual in that is written . \n\nSt'at'imcets has two main types of words:\n\n\nThe variable word type may be affected by many morphological processes, such as prefixation, suffixation, infixation, reduplication, and glottalization.\n\nSt’át’imcets, like the other Salishan languages, exhibits predicate/argument flexibility. All full words are able to occur in the predicate (including words with typically 'nouny' meanings such as nk’yap 'coyote', which in the predicate essentially means 'to be a coyote') and any full word is able to appear in an argument, even those that seem \"verby\", such as t’ak 'go along', which as a noun, is equivalent the noun phrase 'one that goes along'.\n\nSt’át’imcets, as is typical of the Salishan family, has several types of reduplication (and triplication) that have a range of functions such as expressing plural, diminutive, aspect, etc.\n\nA more complicated type of reduplication is the \"internal\" reduplication used to express the diminutive. In this case the consonant before a stressed vowel is reduplicated after the stressed vowel and usually the vowel then changes to \"e\" (IPA: ). Examples are below:\n\nMore than one reduplicative process can occur in a given word:\n\nSt’át’imcets has several other variants of the above types. Reduplication is further complicated by consonant glottalization (see van Eijk (1997) for details).\n\nThe subjunctive mood appears in nine distinct environments, with a range of semantic effects, including:\nThe St’át’imcets subjunctive also differs from Indo-European subjunctives in that it is not selected by attitude verbs.\n\nSt’át’imcets has a complex system of subject and object agreement. There are different subject agreement paradigms for transitive vs. intransitive predicates. For intransitive predicates, there are three distinct subject paradigms, one of which is glossed as 'subjunctive' by van Eijk (1997) and Davis (2006)\n\nThe following is a portion of a story in van Eijk (1981:87) told by Rosie Joseph of Mount Currie.\n\nSt'at'imcets:\n\nNilh aylh lts7a sMáma ti húz̓a qweqwl’el’tmínan. N̓as ku7 ámlec áku7 tsípunsa. Nilh t’u7 st’áksas ti xláka7sa. Tsicw áku7, nilh t’u7 ses wa7, kwánas et7ú i sqáwtsa. Wa7 ku7 t’u7 áti7 xílem, t’ak ku7 knáti7 ti pú7y̓acwa. Nilh ku7 t’u7 skwánas, lip̓in̓ás ku7. Nilh ku7 t’u7 aylh stsuts: \"Wa7 nalh aylh láti7 kapv́ta!\" Nilh ku7 t’u7 aylh sklhaka7mínas ku7 láti7 ti sqáwtsa cwilhá k̓a, nao7q̓ spawts ti kwanensása...\n\nEnglish translation:\n\nThis time it is Máma I am going to talk about. She went that way to get some food from her roothouse. So she took along her bucket. She got there, and she stayed around, taking potatoes. She was doing that, and then a mouse ran by there. So she grabbed it, she squeezed it. So she said: \"You get all squashed now!\" So she opened her hand and she let go of what turned out to be a potato, it was a rotten potato that she had caught...\n\n"}
{"id": "1840548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840548", "title": "Zayn-e-Attar", "text": "Zayn-e-Attar\n\nHaji Zayn Attar (died c.1403) was a 14th-century Persian physician.\n\nHe served for sixteen years as the court physician to the Muzaffarid ruler Shah Shuja, who ruled from 1358 to 1384. Shah Shuja is famous for being the patron of the famous poet Hafiz of Shiraz.\n\nHaji Attar's comprehensive Persian pharmacopoeia of simple and compound remedies, the \"Ikhtiyarat-i Badi‘i\" was apparently composed for the Muzaffarid princess Badi‘ al-Jamal, who is named in the title of the treatise but of whom very little is known.\n\n"}
{"id": "1840551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840551", "title": "List of Texas locations by per capita income", "text": "List of Texas locations by per capita income\n\nTexas is ranked twenty-fifth among US states by median household income, with a per capita income of $19,617 (2000).\n\nNote: Data is from the 2010 United States Census Data and the 2006-2010 American Community Survey 5-Year Estimates.\n\n"}
{"id": "1840558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840558", "title": "Farbauti (moon)", "text": "Farbauti (moon)\n\nFarbauti or Saturn XL is a natural satellite of Saturn. Its discovery was announced by Scott S. Sheppard, David C. Jewitt, Jan Kleyna, and Brian G. Marsden on May 4, 2005, from observations taken between December 12, 2004, and March 9, 2005.\n\nFarbauti is about 5 kilometres in diameter, and orbits Saturn at an average distance of 20,291 Mm in 1079.099 days, at an inclination of 158° to the ecliptic (131° to Saturn's equator), in a retrograde direction and with an eccentricity of 0.209.\n\nIt was named in April 2007 after Fárbauti, a storm giant from Norse mythology, father of Loki.\n\n"}
{"id": "1840561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840561", "title": "University of Malta", "text": "University of Malta\n\nThe University of Malta () is a higher education institution in Malta. It offers undergraduate bachelor's degrees, postgraduate master's degrees and postgraduate doctorates. It is a member of the European University Association, the European Access Network, Association of Commonwealth Universities, the Utrecht Network, the Santander Network, the Compostela Group, the European Association for University Lifelong Learning (EUCEN) and the International Student Exchange Programme (ISEP).\n\nIn post-nominals the University's name is abbreviated as \"Melit\"; a shortened form of \"Melita\" (a Latinised form of the Greek \"Μελίτη\").\n\nThe precursor to the University of Malta was the \"Collegium Melitense\", a Jesuit college which was set up on 12 November 1592. This was originally located in an old house in Valletta, but a purpose-built college was constructed between 1595 and 1597. This building is now known as the Old University Building or the Valletta Campus.\n\nThe Jesuits were expelled from Malta in 1768, and although their property was taken over by the Treasury of the Order of St. John, the college remained open and professors retained their posts. The University of Malta officially came to existence on 22 November 1769, when Grand Master Manuel Pinto da Fonseca signed a decree constituting a \"Pubblica Università di Studi Generali\". The University was briefly suspended during the magistracy of Francisco Ximenes de Texada in the 1770s, but it was reconstituted by his successor Emmanuel de Rohan-Polduc in 1779.\n\nThe University was replaced by the \"École Centrale\" during the French occupation of Malta from 1798 to 1800, but was once again reopened by the British in the early 19th century. From 1937 to 1974, the institution was known as the Royal University of Malta.\n\nOver time, the Valletta campus became too small and Evans Laboratories (now known as Evans Building) was built in 1959 to house the Faculty of Science. In 1968, the Medical School moved to a building near St. Luke's Hospital in Gwardamanġa. The University opened a much larger campus at Tal-Qroqq in Msida in the late 1960s, but it retained the Valletta building which is still used for some lectures and conferences.\n\nThe administrative set up of the university comprises academic and administrative and technical staff members who are appointed or elected to the governing bodies of the University. The principal officers of the University are the Chancellor, the Pro-Chancellor, the Rector, the Pro-Rectors, the Secretary, the Registrar, the Deans of the Faculties as well as the Finance Officer and the Librarian. The main governing bodies are the Council, the Senate and the Faculty Boards.\n\nAs the supreme governing body of the University, the Council is responsible for the administration of the University. Faculties group together departments concerned with a major area of knowledge, while institutes are of an interdisciplinary nature. The council is also responsible for appointing staff members to academic posts.\n\nThe senate is largely responsible for the academic matters of the University primarily regulating studies, research, documentation and examinations at the University. The senate also establishes the entry regulations. The faculty board directs the academic tasks of the faculty. The board presents plans and proposals to the senate and the council. Besides, it determines the studies, teaching and research within the faculty.\n\nIn March 2016, it was announced that Professor Alfred J. Vella was elected by the members of the University Council as the next Rector of the University of Malta. He took up the post in July 2016, when the term of the previous Rector, Professor Juanito Camilleri, expired \n\nThe administration rebranded the university for the fall semester of 2017 with a stylized version of the logo that removed the Latin motto “Ut Fructificemus Deo” (“We should bring forth fruit unto God”) for daily use and retained it in a version to be used in ceremonial contexts; some faculty objected to removing the motto.\n\nAdmission to the university is based on matriculation examination results (A levels). Grades are awarded on a seven-point scale: Grade 1 is awarded for the highest level of achievement, whereas Grade 7 indicates the minimum satisfactory performance. However, entry on basis of maturity and experience is granted for certain courses in the arts and sciences. The Faculty of Dental Surgery allows for a maximum of six European students per year chosen according to merit and only after the students have passed an admissions interview.\n\nFull-time undergraduate courses are free-of-charge to citizens of Malta and the European Union. Maltese students enrolled in higher education in Malta are entitled to a stipend. Fees are charged in the case of higher courses and to nationals from non-EU states. There are 600 international students studying at the university, comprising around 7% of the student population.\n\nThere are 11,500 students including 750 international students from 82 countries, following full-time or part-time degree and diploma courses, many of them run on the modular or credit system. The university hosts Erasmus and other exchange students. A basic Foundation Studies Course enables international high school students who have completed their secondary or high school education overseas but who do not have the necessary entry requirements, to qualify for admission to an undergraduate degree course. Over 3,000 students graduate annually.\n\nThere are a further 2,500 pre-tertiary students at the Junior College, which is also managed by the university.\n\nThe university has fourteen Faculties, a number of institutes and centres and the School of Performing Arts. The floor area occupied by the library building is between 5,000 and 6,000 square metres. A collection of one million volumes is housed throughout the Main Library, branches and institutes. The library subscribes to 60,000 e-journals, 308 print journal titles and a collection of e-books.\n\nThe main campus is located in Msida, with an area of 194,000 square metres and which houses the majority of the faculties, centres and institutions. There are also campuses at Valletta and on Malta's sister-island, Gozo.\n\nThe Valletta Campus, which is housed in the Old University Building, dates back to the founding of the \"Collegium Melitense\" and incorporates the \"Aula Magna\" (\"Great Hall\"). The Valletta Campus also serves as a setting for the hosting of international conferences, seminars, short courses and summer schools. It is the venue of the university International Masters Programmes, the Research, Innovation & Development Trust (RIDT) and the Conference Unit.\n\nThe Gozo Campus (formerly known as the University of Malta Gozo Centre) was set up in 1992 with the collaboration of the Ministry for Gozo. The administration of the University of Malta Gozo Campus supports the organisation of part-time degree, diploma and short-term courses in Gozo and also caters to the needs of students from Gozo who study on the main campus. The campus provides a venue for public lectures and seminars and houses the Güsten Atmospheric Research Centre, within the Department of Geosciences.\n\nThe university has fourteen faculties: Arts; Built Environment; Dental Surgery; Economics, Management & Accountancy; Education; Engineering; Health Sciences; Information & Communication Technology; Laws; Media & Knowledge Sciences; Medicine & Surgery; Science; Social Wellbeing and Theology.\n\nInterdisciplinary institutes and centres have been set up. The institutes include Aerospace Technologies; Anglo-Italian Studies; Baroque Studies; Climate Change & Sustainable Development; Confucius; Digital Games; Earth Systems; the Edward de Bono Institute for the Design & Development of Thinking; European Studies; Islands & Small States; Linguistics; Maltese Studies; Mediterranean Academy of Diplomatic Studies; Mediterranean Institute; Physical Education & Sport; Public Administration & Management; Space Sciences & Astronomy; Sustainable Energy; Tourism, Travel & Culture.\n\nThe centres comprise the Centre for Biomedical Cybernetics; Centre for English Language Proficiency; Centre for Entrepreneurship and Business Incubation; Centre for Environmental Education and Research; Centre for Labour Studies; Centre for Literacy; Centre for the Liberal Arts & Sciences; Centre for Molecular Medicine & Biobanking; Centre for Resilience & Socio-Emotional Health and the Euro-Mediterranean Centre for Educational Research.\n\nThe University of Malta has also set up a School of Performing Arts.\n\nThe Cottonera Resource Centre acts as a hub that co-ordinates links between communities in the inner harbour area and the University, facilitating resource-transfer and capacity building.\n\nThere is a University of the Third Age.\n\nThe campus is home to the IMO International Maritime Law Institute (IMLI).\n\nThe university is a member of the European University Association, the European Access Network, the Association of Commonwealth Universities, the Utrecht Network, the Santander Network, the Compostela Group, the European Association for University Lifelong Learning (EUCEN) the International Student Exchange Programme (ISEP) and the Excellence Network of Island Universities [RETI]. The university has participated in EU programmes and has won several projects in collaboration with partner universities. University of Malta staff and students participate in programmes such as Erasmus and Leonardo.\n\nThe university acts as a partner with other institutions. Links have been forged with the Chamber of Commerce, Enterprise & Industry and the Employment & Training Corporation in order to determine how the university, industry, business and the public sector can develop links.\n\nStudent societies include the University Students' Council (Malta) (KSU), and the Malta Medical Students' Association (MMSA), an association of students in the faculty of Medicine and Surgery.\n\nThe Malta University Holding Company Ltd. (MUHC) embodies the commercial interests of the University of Malta. The companies comprised in the Holding Company serve as the commercial interface between the University of Malta and the business community, brokering the resources and assets of the university to provide added value through commercial activity.\n\nCompanies within the group are:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1840562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840562", "title": "List of West Virginia locations by per capita income", "text": "List of West Virginia locations by per capita income\n\nWest Virginia is the second-poorest state in the United States of America, with a per capita income of $23,450 (2015).\n\nNote: County Data is from the 2011–2015 American Community Survey 5-Year Estimates.\n"}
{"id": "1840565", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840565", "title": "Hosokawa Harumoto", "text": "Hosokawa Harumoto\n\nHarumoto succeeded to a house at the age of seven, after his father's death in 1520. While still a minor, he was supported by his caretaker Miyoshi Motonaga. His childhood name was Rokurō ().\n\n\nIn 1531, Harumoto defeated Hosokawa Takakuni, and regained the power. In addition, he feared Motonaga who had got credit and killed him next year.\n\nAfter that, Harumoto ruled the whole area of Kinai (Yamashiro Province, Yamato Province, Kawachi Province, Izumi Province and Settsu Province)\nand took hold of the Ashikaga shogunate as the Kanrei.\n\nIn 1543, Hosokawa Ujitsuna who was the foster son of Takakuni, raised his armies, and in 1549, Miyoshi Nagayoshi who was a dominant retainer and the first son of Motonaga betrayed Harumoto and took side with Ujitsuna.\nBecause of that, Harumoto was defeated. \nHarumoto, Ashikaga Yoshiteru who was the 13th Ashikaga \"shōgun\" and Ashikaga Yoshiharu who was the father of Yoshiteru were purged to Ōmi Province.\n\nHarumoto and Yoshiteru had battled quite hard with Nagayoshi for the power of the Ashikaga shogunate. However, Harumoto was beaten, and he retired after he reconciled himself with Nagayoshi in 1561.\n\nHarumoto died from a disease in 1563. The head family of the Hosokawa clan broke down as a result of his death.\n"}
{"id": "1840566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840566", "title": "S&amp;P/TSX Composite Index", "text": "S&amp;P/TSX Composite Index\n\nThe S&P/TSX Composite Index is the benchmark Canadian index, representing roughly 70% of the total market capitalization on the Toronto Stock Exchange (TSX) with about 250 companies included in it. The Toronto Stock Exchange is made up of over 1,500 companies. It replaces the earlier TSE 300 index. On January 23, 2020, the S&P/TSX Composite Index reached an all-time closing high of 17,621.31. The intraday record high was also made on January 23, 2020 at 17,621.80. \n\nTo be eligible for inclusion in the Composite Index: \n\nThe following table shows the annual development of the S&P/TSX Composite Index, which was calculated back to 1945.\nEffective prior to the open of trading on Monday, September 23, 2019.\n\nThere are currently no ETFs that match the S&P/TSX Composite Index; however, the iShares S&P/TSX Completion Index Fund () combined with the iShares S&P/TSX 60 Index Fund () can give equivalent exposure. The iShares S&P/TSX Capped Composite Index Fund () and BMO S&P/TSX Capped Composite Index Fund () match the diversity of the index but the relative weighting of each constituent is capped at 10%.\n\nBlackRock also provides several iShares-brand ETFs which provide exposure to segments of the index; these include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1840567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840567", "title": "List of Armenian Patriarchs of Constantinople", "text": "List of Armenian Patriarchs of Constantinople\n\nThe list of Armenian Patriarchs of Constantinople presents the holders of the office of Armenian Patriarch of Constantinople, the head of the Armenian Patriarchate of Constantinople from its establishment in 1461 to the present day.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1840569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840569", "title": "Otto engine", "text": "Otto engine\n\nThe Otto engine was a large stationary single-cylinder internal combustion four-stroke engine designed by the German Nicolaus Otto. It was a low-RPM machine, and only fired every other stroke due to the Otto cycle, also designed by Otto.\n\nThree types of internal combustion engines were designed by German inventors Nicolaus Otto and his partner Eugen Langen. The models were a failed 1862 compression engine, an 1864 atmospheric engine, and the 1876 Otto cycle engine known today as the \"Gasoline Engine.\" The engines were initially used for stationary installations, as Otto had no interest in transportation. Other makers such as Daimler perfected the Otto engine for transportation use.\n\nNicolaus August Otto as a young man was a traveling salesman for a grocery concern. In his travels he encountered the internal combustion engine built in Paris by Belgian expatriate Jean Joseph Etienne Lenoir. In 1860 Lenoir succeeded in creating a double-acting engine which ran on illuminating gas at 4% efficiency. The 18 liter Lenoir engine was able to produce only 2 horsepower.\n\nIn testing a replica of the Lenoir engine in 1861 Otto became aware of the effects of compression on the fuel charge. In 1862 Otto attempted to produce an engine to improve on the poor efficiency and reliability of the Lenoir engine. He tried to create an engine which would compress the fuel mixture prior to ignition, but failed, as that engine would run no more than a few minutes prior to its destruction. Many engineers were also trying to solve the problem with no success.\n\nIn 1864 Otto and Eugen Langen founded the first internal combustion engine production company NA Otto and Cie (NA Otto and Company). Otto and Cie succeeded in creating a successful atmospheric engine that same year.\n\nThe factory ran out of space and was moved to the town of Deutz, Germany in 1869 where the company was renamed to Gasmotoren-Fabrik Deutz (The Gas Engine Manufacturing Company Deutz).\n\nGottlieb Daimler was technical director and Wilhelm Maybach was the head of engine design. Daimler was a gunsmith who had also worked on the Lenoir engine previously.\nBy 1876 Otto and Langen succeeded in creating the first internal combustion engine that compressed the fuel mixture prior to combustion for far higher efficiency than any engine created to this time.\n\nThe first version of the atmospheric engine used a fluted column design which was the design of Eugen Langen. The atmospheric engine has its power stroke delivered upward using a rack and pinion to convert the piston's linear motion to rotary motion. The expansion ratio of this engine was much more effective than that of the 1860 Lenoir engine and gave the engine its superior efficiency.\n\nThe Lenoir engine was an engine that burned fuel without first trying to compress the fuel/mixture. The Otto/Langen atmospheric engine ran at 12% efficiency and produced at 80 RPM. In competition at the 1867 World's Fair in Paris, it easily bested the efficiency of the Lenoir engine and won the Gold Medal, thus paving the way for production and sales which funded additional research.\n\nThe first version used a frame to stabilize the rack. This was soon dispensed with as the design was simplified. Later engines dispensed with the fluted cylinder as well. The atmospheric engine used a gas flame ignition system and was made in output sizes from .\n\nWhen in 1872 N.A. Otto & Cie reorganized as Gasmotoren-Fabrik Deutz, management picked Daimler as factory manager, bypassing even Otto, and Daimler joined the company in August, taking Maybach with him as chief designer. While Daimler managed to improve production, the weakness in the Otto's vertical piston design, coupled to Daimler's stubborn insistence on atmospheric engines, led the company to an impasse.\n\nFor all its commercial success, with the company producing 634 engines a year by 1875, the Otto and Langen engine had hit a technical dead end: it produced only , yet required headroom to operate. In 1882, after producing 2,649 engines, the atmospheric engine production was discontinued. This was also the year that Gottlieb Daimler and Wilhelm Maybach left the company.\n\nAfter 14 years of research and development Otto succeeded in creating the compressed charge internal combustion engine May 9, 1876. Otto found a way to layer the fuel mixture into the cylinder to cause the fuel to burn in a progressive, as opposed to explosive fashion. He referred to this as being a layered or stratified charge. This resulted in controlled combustion and a longer push of the piston in the cylinder rather than the explosion which destroyed all the engines attempted previously. The fuel was still illuminating gas just as Lenoir's and his own atmospheric engines had used.\n\nThis engine used four cycles in its creation of power. It is known now as the \"Otto Cycle engine\". This is the same engine that was first attempted in 1862.\n\nOtto turned his attention to the 4-stroke cycle largely due to the efforts of Franz Rings and Herman Schumm, brought into the company by Gottlieb Daimler. It is this engine (the Otto Silent Engine), and not the Otto & Langen engine, to which the Otto cycle refers. This was the first commercially successful engine to use in-cylinder compression (as patented by William Barnett in 1838). The Rings-Schumm engine appeared in autumn 1876 and was immediately successful.\n\nThe cylinder arrangement of the compression engine was horizontal. It featured a slider valve control with \"gas flame ignition\", which overcame the problems that Lenoir could not overcome with electric ignition which was unreliable at that time. In the 15 years prior to the development of the Otto engine power output never exceeded 3 hp. In a few years after the Otto engine was developed engine power rose until it reached 1000 hp.\n\nThe Otto Cycle engine was eventually adopted to run on Ligroin and eventually gasoline, and many gases. During WWII Otto engines were run on more than 62 different fuels, such as wood gas, coal gas, propane, hydrogen, benzene, and many more. The engine is limited to light fuels. A later development of this engine, known as the Diesel engine, can burn heavy fuels and oils.\n\nDeutz also developed the \"carburetor\" and a \"reliable low voltage ignition system in 1884\". This allowed the use of liquid petroleum fuel for the first time and made the use of the engine in transportation feasible. This work was conducted in parallel to the work of Gottlieb Daimler and Wilhelm Maybach who also developed a carburetor which replaced the original hot tube ignition on the Daimler \"Reitwagen\", and a magneto ignition system which formed the basis of the magneto of the Robert Bosch Corporation. Daimler continued the development of Otto's engine for transportation while Deutz switched to Diesel engines.\n\nIn 1886, the German patent office nullified the Deutz patent that would have run until 1891 due to the discovery of a previous patent for a four cycle engine by Frenchman Alphonse Beau de Rochas. Deutz was unable to show that his stratified charge induction system was unlike that described in the Rochas patent and lost his monopoly and 1 of his 25 patents. By 1889 more than 50 companies were manufacturing Otto design engines.\n\nOtto engines were equipped with a number of different mechanism designs to trigger sparking. The Otto is one of the first engines to use a spark plug, which is a device that produces a small electric spark to ignite the fuel charge. This usually consisted of a pivoting trip-arm that briefly grabs a power switch lever and gives it a quick pull. The switch lever is then released and allowed to snap back to its original position in preparation for the next cycle. This system requires an external electric battery, ignition coil, and electric charging system similar to modern automobile engines.\n\nLater Otto engines employed a small magneto directly on the engine. Rather than tripping a switch, the spark plug firing arm applies a quick rotation to the magneto rotor, which then snaps back under spring tension. This quick rotation of the magneto coil produces a very brief current flow that fires the spark plug and ignites the fuel. This design has the advantage of requiring no external battery, and is how modern portable gas engines operate, incorporating the magnet portion of the magneto into the flywheel. Modern portable engines excite the magneto with every flywheel rotation, and so use a cam-operated electric switch to prevent plug firing except for the power stroke of the engine (see wasted spark).\n\nThis is a demonstration of how the speed regulation works in the Otto engine. The spinning balls are the centrifugal governor, and as the machine runs slower the small wheel moves to the left, inserting the rod into the nearby roller and pushing it up to trigger the intake of fuel to fire the engine for one revolution.\n\nIf the machine is under load and still running too slowly, the cam continues to stay inserted and makes the engine fire repeatedly for each ignition cycle. When the engine speed increases, the governor pulls the small wheel to the right and the machine coasts without injecting any fuel, though the spark plug continues to fire with no fuel in the cylinder.\n\nThis method of speed-control is often referred to as the \"Hit or Miss\" method because the engine \"mis-fires\" (for lack of fuel-mixture) on those power-strokes where the engine is running faster than the governed speed, but will \"hit\" (fire) on power strokes where the speed is too low. No fuel is used on the mis-fire strokes.\n\nOtto engines use a flowing water jacket around the cylinder wall, similar to modern engine cooling systems. The stationary Otto engines on display at the Western Minnesota Steam Threshers Reunion all share a single large heat radiator outside the building. This centralized distant heat dissipation system also helps to keep the engine building cool.\n\nOtto and his manager Gottlieb Daimler had a major disagreement on the future direction of the Otto engine. While Otto wanted to produce large engines for stationary applications Daimler wanted to produce engines small enough to be used in transportation. After a period of disagreement Daimler left Otto's employ and took Wilhelm Maybach with him. In 1883 Daimler and Maybach created a .5 hp engine that was small and efficient. In order to evade the patents that Otto held on the engine design, a pretense was found concerning a patent issued to Beau De Rochas in 1862, the same year that Otto failed to create his four cycle engine the first time. Those who were jealous of the Otto patents (there were 25 patents) had 1 patent overturned in Germany largely because the court failed to understand the significance of Otto's layered charge system which overcame the problems of explosive combustion which destroyed all engine designs previously.\n\nDaimler always referred to his design as an explosion engine, to contrast it against Otto's engine and was able to evade paying royalties to Otto. In 1885 he and Maybach created an engine called the \"Grandfather Clock\" engine and built a two-wheeled frame around it. This became the first Otto engined vehicle. Daimler's fourteen-year-old son Adolf was the first person to ride on this motorized bicycle which is the first internal combustion engined motor vehicle. The 1885 Daimler/Maybach Petroleum Reitwagen (Riding Car) was the first motorcycle (and the first motor vehicle) using an internal combustion engine.\n\nWhile Deutz continued to produce large stationary engines Daimler moved onto boats, airships, locomotives, automobiles, trucks, and other transportation uses. Deutz is the world's oldest engine producer. Daimler, which became Daimler-Benz, is the world's oldest automobile manufacturer.\n\nDaimler-Benz produced this video for the 125th anniversary of the creation of the first motor vehicle which Daimler called the \"Petroleum Reitwagen.\" It used a hot tube ignition specifically because the electrical systems of that era were unreliable. This engine ran on the fuel Ligroin, as did all vehicles until well past the year 1905. Daimler and Maybach founded a company known as Daimler Motorenwerke Gesellschaft which later merged with Benz to form Daimler-Benz, known also as Mercedes-Benz.\n\nToday Otto's company Deutz is one of the largest makers of heavy duty vehicles in the world. Daimler-Benz is one of the largest and most respected makers of luxury automobiles in the world. Virtually all of the world's makers of automobiles produce vehicles using Otto cycle engines which are so ubiquitous as to be referred to as gasoline engines.\n\n"}
{"id": "1840571", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840571", "title": "Soberton and Newtown Millennium Walk 2000", "text": "Soberton and Newtown Millennium Walk 2000\n\nThe Soberton and Newtown Millennium Walk 2000 is a 10-mile circular footpath through Hampshire, England around villages of Soberton and Newtown.\n\nSections of the footpath are shared with The King's Way, Pilgrims' Trail, Wayfarers Walk and Meon Valley Trail.\n\nThe entire route is waymarked by metal and plastic disks found attached to wooden and metal posts, trees and street furniture.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1840572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840572", "title": "Sélingué Dam", "text": "Sélingué Dam\n\nThe Sélingué Dam is an embankment dam with a gravity section located in the Sikasso Region, on the Sankarani River, one of the affluents of the Niger River. It is an important center of energy production in Mali surpassed only by the Manantali Dam on the Bafing River.\n\nIts construction, at the cost of 140 million US dollars, was financed by several backers.\n\nThe dam has a crest length of and a height of . With a power output of 44 MW, the dam has an energy output of 200 million kilowatt-hours per year. The dam provides Bamako, Kati, Koulikoro, Ségou, Fana, Dioïla, Yanfolila and Kalana with electricity. It was brought into service in 1982, and renovated between 1996 and 2001.\n\nThe retaining basin of the dam forms the artificial Lake Sélingué. The water level has a maximum height of but varies throughout the year. When full the lake stores of water and has an area of . It allows agriculture on the irrigated perimeters, managed by the Office of Rural Development of Sélingué, as well as fishing. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1840574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840574", "title": "Communist Party of Lesotho", "text": "Communist Party of Lesotho\n\nThe Communist Party of Lesotho (\"Mokhatio oa Makomonisi a Lesotho\") is a communist party in Lesotho, founded on May 5, 1962. The founding secretary of the party was John Motloheloa. Other early leaders of the party included Mokhafisi Kena and Sefali Malefane. Edward Mofutsanyana was a member of the Communist Party of South Africa Central Committee (disbanded 1950) but had no part in the Lesotho party. Joe Matthews of the South African Communist Party (founded 1953) financed the launch of the Lesotho party but later supported the ANC-allied Marematlou Freedom Party. The South African Communist Party, the Hungarian Socialist Workers Party and Walter Ulbricht of the Socialist Unity Party of Germany sent greetings on the occasion of the founding of the party. The party began publishing \"Mosebetsi\".\n\nDuring the 1960s, the party split into Soviet-allied (Kena, Malefane, Mtji, and Ms Hoohlo) and Chinese-allied (Motloholoa, T. Leanya, and T. Nqojane) factions. In the 1970 election, its two Moscow-allied candidates at Thaba Chitja (Kena) and Tsoelike (Malefane) received 25 and 18 votes respectively. The party was officially banned in February 1970, but went underground and continued its activities. After the 1986 coup, its leader, Sefali Malefane, a university lecturer in Economics, was made a minister in Major-General Justin Lekhanya's regime. The party was made legal again in 1991.\n\nAfter the fall of apartheid rule in neighbouring South Africa, the party advocated union with South Africa.\n\nThe party ceased the publication of its newspaper, \"Mafube\", in 1997.\n\nThe party's current leader is Manny Stevenson.\n"}
{"id": "1840577", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840577", "title": "Samir", "text": "Samir\n\nSamir (variantly spelled Sameer) is a male name found commonly in the Indian subcontinent, Middle East, Central Asia and Europe. In Arabic, Samir (سمير) means holy, jovial, loyal or charming companion. In Indian languages it is derived from the Sanskrit word Samir (समीर) meaning gust of wind or gentle breeze. Samira is the feminine spelling, also found in both languages. \n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1840578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840578", "title": "List of Wisconsin locations by per capita income", "text": "List of Wisconsin locations by per capita income\n\nWisconsin has the twenty-first highest income among states in the United States of America, with a per capita income of $26,624 (2010). See also List of U.S. states by income.\n\nNote: Data are from the 2010 United States Census and the 2006-2010 American Community Survey 5-Year Estimates.\n"}
{"id": "1840580", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840580", "title": "Piccolo Coro dell'Antoniano", "text": "Piccolo Coro dell'Antoniano\n\nThe Piccolo Coro \"Mariele Ventre\" dell'Antoniano, until 1995 simply Piccolo Coro dell'Antoniano (), is an Italian children's choir from Bologna.\n\nThe choir was created by Mariele Ventre in 1963 at the Antoniano Institute for children to sing together at the Zecchino d'Oro festival, started only five years earlier. In the very beginning there were few kids in the choir but it changed very fast and the choir became much larger (up to about 80 children at some time).\n\nIn 1995, after Ventre's death the choir was taken by Sabrina Simoni and changed its name to \"Piccolo Coro \"Mariele Ventre\" dell' Antoniano\" in the founder's honor.\n\nSince November 22, 2003, the children of the choir have been Italian Good Will Ambassadors.\n\n"}
{"id": "1840584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840584", "title": "Ron Kittle", "text": "Ron Kittle\n\nRonald Dale Kittle (born January 5, 1958) is a former American left fielder and designated hitter in Major League Baseball (MLB). He was known for his home run hitting power, and was named the 1983 AL Rookie of the Year. Kittle played for the Chicago White Sox (1982–86, 1989, 1991), New York Yankees (1986–87), Cleveland Indians (1988) and Baltimore Orioles (1990). He batted and threw right-handed. Kittle was also a manager for the minor league Schaumburg Flyers.\n\nA former steelworker who made his MLB debut at nearly 25 years old, Kittle was a popular player on the 1983 \"Winnin Ugly\" Chicago White Sox when they won 99 games and made their first playoff appearance since the 1959 World Series. That season, Kittle was selected an All-Star and won Rookie of the Year honors after hitting 35 home runs (club record for a rookie) and 100 RBI.\n\nKittle also hit 50 homers in the minor leagues with the Edmonton Trappers and has his jersey retired in Edmonton at Telus Field. He was voted winner of 1982's Pacific Coast League Most Valuable Player Award.\nKittle maintained his home run power, but after 1983 his batting average declined and his strikeouts increased. Kittle left the White Sox after 1986 and played part of 1986 and all of 1987 with the New York Yankees. Kittle then played 1988 with the Indians. He briefly returned again to the White Sox in 1990, playing first base. Later in the season he was dealt to the Baltimore Orioles. He returned to the White Sox again and finished his career in Chicago in .\n\nKittle appeared in 843 games over the course of his 10–year MLB career. He recorded 176 home runs and 460 runs batted in.\n\nIn 1998, Kittle was hired as the first manager of the non-affiliated minor league Schaumburg Flyers of the Northern League. During the early years of the Flyers franchise, Kittle did a series of TV commercials to promote the team, using the gimmick \"Ma Kittle,\" where he played both himself and his \"Ma Kittle.\" The ads were successful at sparking some initial interest in the team as the Flyers hoped to steal away fans from the nearby Kane County Cougars, then a Florida Marlins Class A team. The ad mimicked the highly successful Converse ads where Larry Johnson starred as both himself and \"Grandmama.\" Kittle resigned his position in 2001.\n\nKittle was married from 1984 until 2010 and has two children.\n\nKittle's memoirs, \"Ron Kittle's Tales from the White Sox Dugout\", was published in 2005. Co-written with Bob Logan, who also co-wrote Michael Jordan's book \"Come Fly with Me\", the book features anecdotes from Kittle's time as a major leaguer, mostly with the White Sox.\n\nKittle builds custom collectible benches out of baseballs, bats and bases. He also works in public relations for the White Sox and maintains a popular website and blog.\n\n"}
{"id": "1840585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840585", "title": "S/2004 S 7", "text": "S/2004 S 7\n\nS/2004 S 7 is a natural satellite of Saturn. Its discovery was announced by Scott S. Sheppard, David C. Jewitt, Jan Kleyna, and Brian G. Marsden on May 4, 2005 from observations taken between December 12, 2004 and March 8, 2005.\n\nS/2004 S 7 is about 6 kilometres in diameter, and orbits Saturn at an average distance of 20,999 Mm in 1140.24 days, at an inclination of 166° to the ecliptic (166° to Saturn's equator), in a retrograde direction and with an eccentricity of 0.5299.\n\nThis moon has not been seen since its discovery and is currently considered lost.\n\n"}
{"id": "1840589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840589", "title": "Janet Jones", "text": "Janet Jones\n\nJanet Marie Gretzky (née Jones; born January 10, 1961) is an American actress. She is married to retired ice hockey Hall of Famer Wayne Gretzky.\n\nOne of Jones' earliest appearances was as a contestant on Merv Griffin's syndicated US television program \"Dance Fever\" in 1979, and then later as a member of the dance duo \"Motion\", dancing choreographed routines with the show's host, Deney Terrio. Jones performed in \"Annie\" (1982), \"Staying Alive\" (1983) and \"Snow White Live\" (1980), and had a bit part in \"The Beastmaster\" (1982). She also had a small role in the musical comedy, \"Grease 2\" (1982). Her big break came in \"The Flamingo Kid\" (1984), which was followed by the film version of \"A Chorus Line\" (1985). In 1986, she appeared in \"American Anthem\", co-starring gymnast Mitch Gaylord and, in 1987, she appeared on the cover and in a semi-nude pictorial in the March issue of \"Playboy\".\n\nOther credits include 1988's \"\" and the baseball film \"A League of Their Own\" (1992) with Geena Davis, Rosie O'Donnell and Madonna.\n\nJones served as host of an infomercial for Jackie Chan and as the \"master instructor\" for a workout video produced by The FIRM. She and daughter Paulina were featured in the movie \"Alpha Dog\".\n\nPlaying on her surname, she appeared in a 1986 TV commercial endorsing Jones Sausage along with other people who shared her last name.\n\nJones was born Janet Marie Jones in Bridgeton, Missouri, the daughter of a business executive. She attended Pattonville High School in Maryland Heights, Missouri.\n\nJones, who was engaged to Vitas Gerulaitis from 1985-1987, first met Gretzky when he was a judge on \"Dance Fever\" in 1984. They met again at a Los Angeles Lakers game in 1987, and on July 16, 1988, married in a lavish ceremony at St. Joseph's Basilica that was broadcast live across Canada. \nThat August 9, Gretzky was traded to the Los Angeles Kings. One of the motivations behind the deal was rumoured to be furthering Jones's career. Jones refuted this in \"Kings Ransom\", saying she would not have allowed herself to become \"barefoot and pregnant for the next eight years\" were she intent on pursuing her career.\nShe and Gretzky have five children: Paulina (born December 19, 1988), Ty Robert (born July 9, 1990), Trevor Douglas (born September 14, 1992), Tristan Wayne (born August 2, 2000), and Emma Marie (born March 28, 2003).\n\nPaulina and Dustin Johnson announced their engagement on August 18, 2013. Ty played hockey at Shattuck-Saint Mary's, but quit the sport, and currently attends Arizona State University. Trevor was drafted by the Chicago Cubs in the 2011 MLB draft. He was traded on March 20, 2014 to the Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim for Matt Scioscia, son of Angels' manager Mike Scioscia. In June 2014, he was named to the roster of the Orem Owlz.\n\nJones introduced Vanna White to Merv Griffin while appearing on \"Dance Fever\", leading White to her long-term engagement as a presenter on \"Wheel of Fortune\"\n\nOn February 7, 2006, Jones and a half-dozen NHL players were among those implicated in a New Jersey-based sports gambling ring allegedly financed by Phoenix Coyotes assistant coach Rick Tocchet. Then-Coyotes' general manager and Gretzky's former agent, Michael Barnett, admitted to placing a bet on Super Bowl XL through Tocchet.\n\nGretzky told reporters that Jones \"would sit down at some point and answer questions that everybody has for her and be her own person\" while denying any involvement. Jones released a statement through the Coyotes: \"At no time did I ever place a wager on my husband's behalf. Other than the occasional horse race, my husband does not bet on any sports.\"\n\nThe \"Newark Star-Ledger\" revealed that New Jersey State Police wiretaps have Gretzky speaking about the ring. Lawyers for the couple later announced that there was no evidence of any betting on their part, and neither would face criminal charges. \"They were trying to paint something that just wasn't true,\" Jones later told \"Chatelaine Magazine\". \"It's unfair that Wayne and I have had a great marriage for 20 years and a nice family, and the people in the media could care less if they are trying to cause friction in your marriage, trouble in your family, and make your kids feel a certain way. That was a little hurtful because it was like, 'Why? What have we ever done to you?'\" In 2007, she took part in a high-stakes golf tournament broadcast by ESPN. The NHL prohibits personnel from betting on its own games, but does not have a policy against other sports betting.\n\nOn March 15, 2006, the New Jersey Attorney General's Office announced it would subpoena Jones to testify about the alleged ring as soon as a grand jury convenes. On May 8, Tocchet and Jones filed notices in New Jersey that they intend to sue the state for defamation, claiming each lost business opportunities in the wake of the investigation.\n\n"}
{"id": "1840590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840590", "title": "Hugh the Great (disambiguation)", "text": "Hugh the Great (disambiguation)\n\nHugh the Great (c.898–956) was Duke of the Franks.\n\nHugh the Great or Hugh Magnus may also refer to:\n"}
{"id": "1840591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840591", "title": "Decay correction", "text": "Decay correction\n\nDecay correction is a method of estimating the amount of radioactive decay at some set time before it was actually measured.\n\nResearchers often want to measure, say, medical compounds in the bodies of animals. It's hard to measure them directly, so it can be chemically joined to a radionuclide - by measuring the radioactivity, you can get a good idea of how the original medical compound is being processed.\n\nSamples may be collected and counted at short time intervals (ex: 1 and 4 hours). But they might be tested for radioactivity all at once. Decay Correction is one way of working out what the radioactivity would have been at the time it was taken, rather than at the time it was tested.\n\nFor example, the isotope copper-64, commonly used in medical research, has a half-life of 12.7 hours. If you inject a large group of animals at \"time zero\", but measure the radioactivity in their organs at two later times, the later groups must be \"decay corrected\" to adjust for the decay that has occurred between the two time points.\n\nThe formula for decay correcting is: formula_1\n\nwhere formula_2 is the original activity count at time zero, formula_3 is the activity at time \"t\", \"λ\" is the decay constant, and \"t\" is the elapsed time.\n\nThe decay constant is formula_4 where \"formula_5\" is the half-life of the radioactive material of interest.\n\nThe decay correct might be used this way: a group of 20 animals is injected with a compound of interest on a Monday at 10:00 a.m. The compound is chemically joined to the isotope copper-64, which has a known half-life of 12.7 hours, or 764 minutes. After one hour, the 5 animals in the \"one hour\" group are killed, dissected, and organs of interest are placed in sealed containers to await measurement. This is repeated for another 5 animals, at 2 hours, and again at 4 hours. At this point, (say, 4:00 p.m., Monday) all the organs collected so far are measured for radioactivity (a proxy of the distribution of the compound of interest). The next day (Tuesday), the \"24 hour\" group would be killed and dissected at 10:00 a.m., then measured for radioactivity, (say at 11:00 a.m.). In order to compare ALL the groups together, the data from the \"24 hour\" must be decay corrected: the radioactivity measured on the second day must be \"adjusted\" in order to allow a comparison to measurements from an earlier time, but of the same original material.\n\nIn this case, \"time zero\" is Monday, 4:00 p.m., when the first three groups (1,2, and 4 hour animals organs) were measured. The \"24 hour\" group was measured at 11:00 a.m. Tuesday, which is 19 hours after the first groups.\n\nStart by calculating the decay constant \"K\". Substitute 12.7 (hours, the half-life of copper-64) for formula_6, giving\nformula_7 = 0.0546.\n\nNext, multiply this value of \"K\" by the time elapsed between the first and second measures of radioactivity, 19 hours: (0.0546 x 19) = 1.0368.\n\nChange the sign, to make it -1.0368, then find the \"inverse Ln\"; in this case 0.3546.\n\nThis value is in the denominator of the decay correcting fraction, so it is the same as multiplying the numerator by its inverse (formula_8), which is 2.82.\n\nIn this case, the uncorrected values will be multiplied by 2.82, which corrects for 19 hours elapsing (between one and two half-lives).\n\nIf the radiation measured has dropped by half between the 4 hour sample and the 24 hour sample we might think that the concentration of compound in that organ has dropped by half; but applying the decay correct we see that the concentration is 0.5*2.82 so it has actually increased by 40% in that period.\n"}
{"id": "1840597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840597", "title": "Nicholas Bethell, 4th Baron Bethell", "text": "Nicholas Bethell, 4th Baron Bethell\n\nNicholas William Bethell, 4th Baron Bethell (19 July 1938 – 8 September 2007) was a British politician. He was a historian of Central and Eastern Europe. He was also a translator and human rights activist. He sat in the House of Lords as a Conservative from 1967 to 1999. He served as an appointed member of the European Assembly from 1975 to 1979, and as an elected Member of the European Parliament from 1979 to 1994, and from 1999 to 2003.\n\nBethell's parents were William Gladstone Bethell (11 April 1904 – 17 October 1964) and Ann Margaret Frances (née Barlow; died 17 August 1996). His father was a stockbroker who served in the Royal Artillery in the Second World War. His father was the third son of John Bethell, a banker and Liberal politician, who became 1st Baron Bethell in 1922. His mother was the daughter of Lieutenant Colonel Robert Barlow. His parents divorced in 1946. His mother subsequently remarried three times.\n\nBethell was educated at Harrow. He trained as a Russian interpreter during his National Service from 1956 to 1958, and studied Oriental Languages at Pembroke College, Cambridge, specialising in Arabic and Persian. He graduated in 1962, and befriended Polish students in Cambridge. He resumed his education at Cambridge as a mature student, and earned his PhD in 1987.\n\nAfter he graduated, Bethell worked for the \"Times Literary Supplement\" from 1962 to 1964, and was a script editor for the BBC Radio Drama department from 1964 to 1967.\n\nHis father died in 1964, and he inherited the barony on the unexpected early death of his cousin Guy on 2 December 1967. He sat in the House of Lords as a Conservative until the House of Lords Act 1999 removed most hereditary peers from the chamber. He was appointed as a Lord in Waiting (a government whip in the House of Lords) in June 1970, after the 1970 general election.\n\nFluent in Russian and Polish, Bethell often translated the works of Russian and Polish writers into English.\n\nAfter he published a translation in 1968, together with David Burg, of Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn's \"Cancer Ward\", an article by Auberon Waugh in \"Private Eye\" (1971) suggested Bethell had published the work without permission, and had enabled the Soviet authorities to arrest Solzhenitsyn for circulating anti-Soviet propaganda. Bethell brought a libel suit against \"Private Eye\" and resigned as a whip in January 1971 to pursue the litigation. (The case was eventually settled out of court.) The controversy denied him a place on Edward Heath's list of Conservative candidates to be appointed to the European Parliament. Heath refused to discuss the matter with him, but government papers released in 2002 under the 30-year rule revealed that Bethell's contacts with people in Communist Russia and Poland were thought to be a security risk.\n\nSolzhenitsyn reopened the issue after he was deported from the Soviet Union, claiming that he had not authorised a Slovak dissident, Pavel Licko, to give the manuscript to Bethell, and that Licko was a Soviet agent. Licko's side of the story was given, many years later, in an issue of the \"Kritika i Kontekst\" magazine. Bethell rejected these claims, pointing out that Solzhenitsyn had accepted royalties from the publication of the translation over the years.\n\nSolzhenitsyn first came to Western attention with the publication in the USSR of \"One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich\" (1962) and its subsequent translation into many languages (it was translated at least five times into English). Thereafter, reports of his literary activities and constant harassment by the authorities kept him in the public eye. In 1970 he was awarded the Nobel Prize for Literature, although the Soviet authorities obstructed him from receiving the award until he was deported from the USSR in 1974.\n\nBethell's political fortunes changed when Margaret Thatcher became leader of the Conservative Party. He was nominated to become a member of the European Parliament from 1975 to 1979, and sat as an elected MEP for London Northwest from 1979 to 1994. He set up the \"Freedom of the Skies\" in 1980, campaigning to force airlines to reduce their prices which he believed were artificially inflated by a cartel. Perceived as too European, he was not re-elected in 1994, but returned to the European Parliament as an MEP for the new regional constituency of London at the 1999 European Parliament election. At the same election, his second wife Bryony was an unsuccessful candidate on the Conservative Party list for the South East England seat. Bethell was awarded the European People's Party's Robert Schuman Medal on his retirement from the European Parliament in October 2003.\n\nBethell was staunchly anti-communist. In such books as \"Betrayed\", he strongly supported the Anglo-American efforts to overthrow the Communist regimes of Eastern Europe. What Bethell criticised was the execution of such operations, not their goal. He used his European post to campaign for the human rights of dissidents in the Soviet bloc, including Andrei Sakharov and Anatoly Sharansky. He took a leading role in the foundation of the Sakharov Prize, awarded by the European Parliament since 1988.\n\nAfter the fall of Communism, he continued to support critics of the Russian government, such as Vladimir Gusinsky and Alexander Litvinenko. He was also one of the first people to interview Nelson Mandela at Pollsmoor Prison in 1985.\n\nHe became a Commander of the Polish Order of Merit in 1991, and received a Russian Presidential Award in 1992. Bethell was the president of the Uxbridge Conservative Association from 1995 to 1999. He was active in the movement to keep Gibraltar British, serving as president of the Friends of Gibraltar's Heritage from 1992 to 2001. For this he received the Freedom of the City of Gibraltar and the Gibraltar Medallion of Honour in 2008. He also opposed the Turkish occupation of northern Cyprus, and was president of the Friends of Cyprus Association from 2001.\n\nBethell married twice. He married, firstly, Cecilia Mary Lothian Honeyman on 7 April 1964. She was the daughter of Alexander Honeyman, professor of Oriental Languages at St Andrews University. They had two sons, James and William, but divorced in 1971; she died in 1977. He remarried in 1992, to Bryony Lea Morgan Griffiths. They had one son, John. They resided in London. He enjoyed playing tennis and poker, and was a member of the Garrick Club and Pratt's.\n\nHe suffered from Parkinson's disease in later life, dying at age 69. He was survived by his second wife, and his three sons. He was succeeded in the barony by his eldest son, James Bethell, 5th Baron Bethell.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1840599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840599", "title": "Eccles Building", "text": "Eccles Building\n\nThe Marriner S. Eccles Federal Reserve Board Building houses the main offices of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. It is located at 20th Street and Constitution Avenue, N.W., in Washington, D.C. The building, designed in the stripped classicism style, was designed by Paul Philippe Cret and completed in 1937. President Franklin Delano Roosevelt dedicated the building on October 20, 1937.\n\nThe building was named after Marriner S. Eccles (1890–1977), Chairman of the Federal Reserve under President Roosevelt, by an Act of Congress on October 15, 1982. Previously it had been known as the Federal Reserve Building.\n\nFrom 1913 to 1937, the Federal Reserve Board met in the United States Treasury building on Pennsylvania Avenue in Washington, D.C., while employees were scattered across three locations throughout the city.\nIn response to the Banking Act of 1935, which centralized control of the Federal Reserve System and placed it in the hands of the Board, the Board decided to consolidate its growing staff in a new building, to be sited on Constitution Avenue and designed by an architect selected through an invited competition.\n\nThe principal officials overseeing the competition were Charles Moore, chairman of the United States Commission of Fine Arts, and Adolph C. Miller, a member of the Board since 1914. Miller drafted a statement to help the competing architects understand the concerns of Board, explaining that the traditional style of public architecture – with columns, pediments, and generous use of symbolic ornamentation – would not be of the utmost concern. \nIn describing the character of the building as governmental, it is not, however, intended to suggest that its monumental character should be emphasized. It is thought desirable that its aesthetic appeal should be through dignity of conception, proportion, scale and purity of line rather than through stressing of purely decorative or monumental features. For this reason it is suggested that the use of columns, pediments and other such forms may be altogether omitted and should be restricted to the character of the building as above described.\n\nProposals were received from architects such as John Russell Pope and James Gamble Rogers. Ultimately, the winner of the competition was the simplified classical design by Paul Philippe Cret.\n\nPaul Philippe Cret was a naturalized U.S. citizen who had trained at the École des Beaux-Arts in Lyons and Paris. He was invited to the United States in 1903 to establish the department of architecture at the University of Pennsylvania, and established his own practice in 1907.\nHis first major commission was the Pan American Union Building, in Washington, D.C. (1908). Designed with Albert Kelsey, it was a building in quintessential Beaux-Arts style, with an impressive classical facade, rich ornamentation, and allegorical references to the goals of the organization. This led to many other commissions for war memorials, civic buildings, court houses, and museums in cities such as Detroit, Hartford, Philadelphia, Indianapolis and Washington, D.C.\n\nBy 1935, under the influence of Modernism, Cret's style had evolved toward the spare classicism of buildings such as the Folger Shakespeare Library (1929–32). But true to the Beaux-Arts tradition, he oversaw every aspect of the building project, including technical and aesthetic details. His firm made more than 300 freehand sketches, measured plans, site plans, elevational studies, and perspective drawings, each of which could contain front, side, and top views, and sectional details when necessary.\n\nThe four-story building, with an exterior of Georgia marble, is in the shape of the letter H, with the space on either side of the building's center forming east and west courtyards. The interior has a two-story atrium with dual staircases and a skylight etched with the outline of an eagle. The atrium floor is of marble and its walls are of travertine marble. The largest meeting space is the two-story Board Room.\n\nConstruction of the building began in 1935 and was completed in 1937. Its pragmatic classicism captured the spirit of Depression-era and wartime Washington, a city determined to remain grand but with nothing to spare on the non-essential.\n\nCret employed nationally recognized artists to complete the ornamentation and furnishing of the building. Sidney Waugh designed the eagle on the front facade, the building's only three-dimensional sculpture which was carved by the Piccirilli Brothers, while John Gregory carved bas-reliefs for the exterior of the C Street entrance. Samuel Yellin, a noted wrought-iron craftsman from Philadelphia, designed and executed numerous railings, gates, and fixtures throughout the building. Milford pink granite was used as a building material.\n\nMural artist Ezra Winter painted a large map of the United States for the Board Room, and sculptor Herbert Adams created memorials to President Woodrow Wilson and Senator Carter Glass to occupy niches in the main lobby. The furniture was produced by W. & J. Sloane, New York, with the architects having the final responsibility.\n\n"}
{"id": "1840600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840600", "title": "Bestla (moon)", "text": "Bestla (moon)\n\nBestla or Saturn XXXIX is a retrograde irregular moon of Saturn. Its discovery was announced by Scott S. Sheppard, David C. Jewitt, Jan Kleyna, and Brian G. Marsden on 4 May 2005, from observations taken between 13 December 2004 and 5 March 2005.\n\nBestla is about 7 kilometres in diameter, and orbits Saturn at an average distance of 20,192,000 km in 1088 days, at an inclination of 147° to the ecliptic (151° to Saturn's equator), in a retrograde direction and with an eccentricity of 0.5145. Early observations from 2005 suggested that Bestla had a very high eccentricity of 0.77. Like many of the outer irregular moons of the giant planets, Bestla's eccentricity may vary as a result of the Kozai mechanism. Besta's rotation period is hours.\n\nThis moon was named in April 2007 after Bestla, a frost giantess from Norse mythology, who is a mother of Odin.\n\n"}
{"id": "1840602", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840602", "title": "LaMarr Hoyt", "text": "LaMarr Hoyt\n\nDewey LaMarr Hoyt, Jr. (born January 1, 1955, in Columbia, South Carolina) is a former Major League Baseball right-handed pitcher who won the American League Cy Young Award.\n\nOriginally signed by the New York Yankees in the fifth round of the 1973 Major League Baseball draft, Hoyt was traded with fellow pitching prospect Bob Polinsky, outfielder Oscar Gamble and $200,000 to the Chicago White Sox in a season-opening deal that sent the Yankees shortstop Bucky Dent. A relief pitcher when he made the White Sox to stay in , Hoyt was switched to the starting rotation in and tied a club record by winning his first nine decisions. The record was first set by Lefty Williams in and equaled by Orval Grove in . Hoyt ended up leading the American League with 19 wins and showed devastating control on the mound; he walked a mere 48 batters in 239.2 innings.\n\nHoyt was even better in , winning the American League Cy Young Award. His 24-10 won-lost record, 3.66 earned run average and even better control than the previous season, (walking 31 batters in 260.2 innings, and leading the league in fewest walks per nine innings for the first of three straight seasons), helped the White Sox capture the American League West title.\n\nHe pitched a complete game victory over the Baltimore Orioles in the first game of the 1983 American League Championship Series, giving up only one run on five hits with no walks. This was the only game the ChiSox won in the series.\n\nThe White Sox faltered in 1984, as Hoyt's record fell to 13-18 with a 4.47 ERA. He went from winning the most games in the American League in 1983 to losing the most games the following year. Hoping for a rebound from the former Cy Young Award winner, the San Diego Padres traded Ozzie Guillén, Tim Lollar, Bill Long and Luis Salazar to the White Sox for Hoyt, Kevin Kristan and Todd Simmons during the 1984- off-season. Guillen would win the American League Rookie of the Year award in 1985.\n\nHoyt began his National League career promisingly enough, making the NL's All-Star team his first season in the league (though named by his own manager Dick Williams over fellow Padre Andy Hawkins who started the year 11-0) and winning the game's Most Valuable Player award, giving up one run in three innings of work to earn the win. For the season, he went 16-8 with a 3.47 ERA. Baseball writer Bill James said Hoyt had the best control of any National League pitcher at this time.\n\nFollowing the season, he was arrested twice within a month (between January and February ) on drug-possession charges, checking into a rehabilitation program nine days after the second arrest. This prevented him from playing most of spring training, and he logged a disappointing 8-11 won-loss record with a 5.15 ERA.\n\nBarely a month after the season ended Hoyt was arrested again for drug possession, this time on the U.S.- Mexico border. He was sentenced to 45 days in jail on December 16, 1986, and suspended by then-Commissioner Peter Ueberroth on February 25, . An arbitrator reduced his suspension to sixty days in mid-June and ordered the Padres to reinstate him, but the team gave him his unconditional release the following day.\n\nThe White Sox gave him a second chance, signing him after his San Diego release and giving him time to get back into shape, but a fourth arrest on drug charges in December 1987 ended that.\n\nA poor hitter, even by pitchers' standards, Hoyt had just ten hits in 110 career at-bats. The only extra-base hit of his career was an RBI double on July 13, 1986, against Tim Conroy of the St. Louis Cardinals.\n\n"}
{"id": "1840608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840608", "title": "S/2004 S 12", "text": "S/2004 S 12\n\nS/2004 S 12 is a natural satellite of Saturn. Its discovery was announced by Scott S. Sheppard, David C. Jewitt, Jan Kleyna, and Brian G. Marsden on May 4, 2005 from observations taken between December 12, 2004 and March 9, 2005.\n\nS/2004 S 12 is about 5 kilometres in diameter, and orbits Saturn at an average distance of 19,906 Gm in 1048.541 days, at an inclination of 164° to the ecliptic (162° to Saturn's equator), in a retrograde direction and with an eccentricity of 0.396.\n\nThis moon has not been seen since its discovery and is currently considered lost.\n\n"}
{"id": "1840611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840611", "title": "Philippine forest turtle", "text": "Philippine forest turtle\n\nSiebenrockiella leytensis is a species of freshwater turtle endemic to the Philippines. It is classified as critically endangered. It is known as the Philippine forest turtle, the Philippine pond turtle, the Palawan turtle, or the Leyte pond turtle. Despite the latter common name, it does not occur in the island of Leyte but is instead native to the Palawan island group. It is locally known as bakoko in Cuyonon.\n\nPhilippine forest turtles are readily recognizable by their ginkgo-shaped vertebral scutes and a pale white to yellow line traversing across its head behind the ears. The previous characteristic has earned it the nickname of 'bowtie turtle'.\n\nPhilippine forest turtles are classified under the subgenus Panyaenemys. Together with the smiling terrapin (\"Siebenrockiella crassicollis\"), it is one of the two species in the genus \"Siebenrockiella\".\n\nPhilippine forest turtles have brown to reddish brown to black carapaces that reach a length of . Larger individuals can reach in length, though this is relatively rare. A dorsal ridge (the keel) is only present in the posterior vertebral scutes or absent altogether. The front margin of the carapace is slightly to strongly serrated, with the marginal scutes projecting beyond the cervical scutes. The vertebral scutes are broader than long.\n\nThe plastron is reddish brown to black, sometimes with blotches of yellow. In juveniles, the plastron is a uniform yellow. The bridge (the hinge connecting plastron and carapace) is the same color as the plastron. It is significantly smaller than the carapace and narrow at the front and back. It possesses deep notches between the projecting gular scutes as well as between the gulars and humerals, but it is more distinct in the former.\n\nIts plastral formula is abd > pect > fem > gul > hum > an.\n\nThe skin of the legs, body, and neck are rough in appearance, being covered in tiny tubercles. The head is brown in color, sometimes speckled at the temples with light brown, orange, or red spots. A thin white to pale yellow line traverses through the width of the head just behind the openings of the ears, it may be divided at the center in some individuals. This has led to the species being nicknamed as the 'bowtie turtle'. The line is more prominent in younger individuals.\nThe upper jaw is hooked and the skin on the sides of the neck and the chin are lighter in color. The lower jaw may also sometimes possess a pair of small yellow spots on the sides.\n\nThe legs possess irregular enlarged transverse scales and are darker in color at the front. Four transverse scales are present on the forelimbs and more at the hind limbs (though absent at the heels). All limbs are webbed and possess large claws on all toes. The tail is uniformly light brown in color.\n\nPhilippine forest turtles are relatively easy to recognize. They can be distinguished from all other turtles by their strongly projecting epiplastra, vertebral scutes shaped like ginkgo leaves, the absence of temporal arches in the skull, and the aforementioned light lines behind its head.\n\nThe Malaysian giant turtle (\"Orlitia borneensis\") and the smiling terrapin (\"Siebenrockiella crassicollis\") are the only other turtle species with ginkgo-shaped vertebral scutes, but they do not possess the white to pale yellow line on the back of their heads.\n\nThe scientific name of Philippine forest turtles is \"Siebenrockiella leytensis\". It is classified under the genus \"Siebenrockiella\" in the subgenus \"Panyaenemys\" (frequently misspelled as \"\"Panayanemys\"\" and \"\"Panyanemys\"\"). It belongs to the subfamily Geoemydinae of the family Geoemydidae.\n\nFormerly classified under the genus \"Heosemys\", it was transferred to the previously monotypic genus \"Siebenrockiella\" by Diesmos \"et al.\" in 2005 based on morphological and genetic comparison with \"Siebenrockiella crassicollis\".\n\nThe subgenus name is derived after the Pala'wan word \"panya-en\". The word was used by a local Palawan resident to describe the turtles in a 2003 survey. The word means 'enchanted', supposedly because Philippine forest turtles were favorite pets of the forest spirits. \"-emys\" comes from the Greek word εμύς, meaning 'freshwater turtle'.\n\nThe generic name was coined in honor of the Austrian zoologist Friedrich Siebenrock. While the specific name means 'from [the island of] Leyte'. An erroneous name, as the turtle is actually from the islands of Palawan and is not found in Leyte.\n\nPhilippine forest turtles were first described by the American herpetologist Edward Harrison Taylor in 1920 as \"Heosemys leytensis\". He described them on the basis of two specimens (male and female) collected by Gregorio Lopez, allegedly from the swamps of the municipality of Cabalian in Southern Leyte (now known as the municipality of San Juan). These specimens were unfortunately destroyed in World War II during the firebombing of Manila.\n\nNo other specimens were reported until 1988 when a specimen was bought from a local resident in Taytay, Palawan. Believing that the turtle got there through interisland trade, numerous herpetologists searched Southern Leyte for other individuals. Their lack of success led to fears that the turtle was already extinct.\n\nIn 2001, during an assessment of endemic wildlife of the island of Palawan, live specimens of Philippine forest turtles were rediscovered. It soon became apparent that natural populations of the species existed in Palawan. Diesmos \"et al.\" (2004) have concluded that Taylor and/or Lopez may have somehow confused the type locality of the original specimens. Lopez also collected turtle specimens from the islands of Coron and Busuanga in Palawan. Specimens from Palawan may have been mistakenly exchanged with actual specimens from Leyte (which were probably \"Cyclemys dentata\"). It is now presumed that Philippine forest turtles have never been introduced outside of Palawan, and thus were not actually from Leyte.\n\nPhilippine forest turtles are known only from northern Palawan and surrounding islands. This includes the island of Dumaran where the species is still relatively abundant in creeks. Elsewhere, it is believed their populations are declining sharply. Particularly in the areas of Taytay and San Vicente. Its distribution area is estimated to be less than 100 km.\n\nPhilippine forest turtle populations often exist alongside other more common native turtle species, including Asian leaf turtles (\"Cyclemys dentata\") and Southeast Asian box turtles (\"Cuora amboinensis\").\n\nDue to its rarity and its status as newly rediscovered, little is known of the life cycle of the Philippine forest turtle. From observations, however, Philippine forest turtles appear to exhibit long life spans and high adult survival rates. Like most turtles, their sexual maturation is delayed but they are able to mate multiple times before death (iteroparity).\n\nCaptive adults confiscated from illegal traders were provided a large outside pool with well planted islands and numerous underwater rock formations in Malabon Zoo in Manila. But they proved to be very shy and retiring, spending considerable time hiding under rocks, both in and out of the water. They took some months to adjust to confinement. Observations indicate that they are omnivorous, favouring commercial turtle food, aquatic plants and they have been observed hunting small fish and crustaceans. They became active in the early morning and late evening, foraging for food, and moved about during the night. They were not observed to be keen on basking in the sun, but this may have been the result of being in a captive environment.\n\nKnown food sources of Philippine forest turtles in the wild include figs.\n\nThe Philippine forest turtle is an enigmatic freshwater turtle species, it exerts great fascination for turtle hobbyists. Due to the previous inability to locate it in the wild, probable threats from habitat loss, and potential pressure from collectors, this turtle is listed as critically endangered.\n\nDue to the susceptibility of the species to stress and the extremely aggressive territorial behavior of male individuals, Philippine forest turtles do not do well in captivity. Nevertheless, as of 2009, a considerable number of these turtles (over 171 individuals documented in a span of four years) were to be found for sale illegally in major Manila pet markets, particularly in the main Chinese markets (where the turtles are sold cheaper). The animals are not sold openly and some of the buyers are overseas collectors. Most of the individuals were juveniles or young adults. Between 2009-2011 this species ranked sixth among the most commonly confiscated species in the Philippines. These animals had been collected from mud wallows in northern Palawan, and it is believed that they hide during the daylight hours.\n\nAdditionally, many specimens (from Palawan) offered for sale had small holes bored in the carapace, indicating that some at least had been held captive as pets and tethered accordingly. Local Palawan people are known to keep these animals in water troughs for domestic pigs, as these are supposed to bring luck for the household and the pigs, although it is not known if this luck is shared by the turtles.\n\nThe unconfirmed existence of illegal trade of Palawan turtles to Borneo, Malaysia, is also a cause of concern.\n\nAlthough some studies into their habitats have been commenced by several Philippines academic institutions, lack of funding has prevented full study, and they must be still considered endangered, especially from collecting, until further research had been carried out.\n\nTrade is banned internationally under the CITES convention, as well as domestically under the Philippines Wildlife Act.\n\nSome eighteen individuals have been donated to the Malabon Zoo north of Manila.\n\nRecent legislation in the Philippines requires pet owners and traders to register their animals with the authorities, and pay for licences to keep the more \"exotic\" pets. It is hoped that this may prove to reduce the collection of various endangered species, including the Philippines Pond Turtle. The entirety of the Palawan group of islands is also a nationally protected area.\n\n"}
{"id": "1840612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840612", "title": "Communist Party of Luxembourg", "text": "Communist Party of Luxembourg\n\nThe Communist Party of Luxembourg (, , ), abbreviated to KPL or PCL, is a communist party in Luxembourg.\n\nAli Ruckert is the current chairman of the party.\n\nThe KPL was founded on 2 January, 1921, in the town of Niederkorn, making it one of the oldest parties in Luxembourg. In 1937, the Bech government attempted to introduce the so-called \"Maulkuerfgesetz\" (\"Muzzle law\") which would have banned the party. The law was abandoned after failing to achieve popular support in a national referendum.\n\nFollowing the end of the Second World War, the party, which won 11.1% in the legislative elections, joined the National Union Government (1945–47). Its first minister was Charles Marx. After Marx's death in a 1946 car accident, he was replaced by Dominique Urbany. After the death of the leader of the LSAP, the coalition collapsed. With the principle of an all-inclusive government gone, the KPL was excluded from the next government and never returned another member to the cabinet.\n\nIn 1964, the United States State Department estimated the party membership to be approximately 500. In legislative elections held in the same year, the party registered 10.4% of the vote, and won five of the Chamber of Deputies' 56 seats. The party's representation in the Chamber peaked at the following election, with six deputies, but fell, until the KPL lost its last remaining deputy in 1994. In the same year a minority opposing the Marxist-Leninist line of the party split and founded the New Left ( together with the rest of the Revolutionary Socialist Party (). \n\nIn 1999, the KPL and the New Left agreed to found The Left (). The Left had members of both parties and independents. Accordingly, KPL members ran on The Left lists in the 1999 and 2000 elections and no separate KPL lists existed. After disputes between a majority within the Left and leading KPL members shortly before the 2004 elections the party again ran separate lists. A number of the Left members were subsequently expelled from the KPL.\n\nThe KPL is represented locally on the councils of Differdange and Rumelange. In Rumelange it is part of the ruling coalition together with the LSAP. It is the only leftwing majority coalition in Luxembourg.\n\n"}
{"id": "1840615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840615", "title": "Impfondo", "text": "Impfondo\n\nImpfondo is a town in the northeastern Republic of the Congo with a population of around 41,000 people, lying on the Oubangui River. It is home to an airport and is linked by river barge to Brazzaville and to Bangui. It is the administrative centre of Impfondo District and the Likouala Region.\n\nHistorically called Desbordesville, Impfondo is usually a stopping point on the way to Bangui by barge. It is a frontier kind of place, the last vestige of what could be called civilisation in an area overwhelmed by dense forest swamps and small villages. Rumours abound of a police force and sets of soldiers more corrupt than in other parts of the Congo, probably due to its remoteness, in addition to being so close to the Democratic Republic of Congo over the river. Soldiers from DR Congo have been known to cross and harass the population on occasion, making people here more on edge than usual. The entire western side of the Congo River in the Likouala is also home to refugee camps, though as the conflict in DR Congo subsides, they should be making their way back across the river.\n\nTo the west of Impfondo lies the Lac Tele area of the tropical jungle. This area is one of the least developed regions of Africa, with stretches of barely touched equatorial rain-forest and wetlands stretching for hundreds of kilometres in every direction. The footprint of civilisation is small, and in some ways threaten to disappear altogether - with barely existent dirt roads connecting small villages with the addition of the looming presence of Ebola epidemics. Wilderness and animal concerns take precedence over the daily lives of people, and by some accounts, the Congo's north is the 'last great wilderness of Africa'.\n\nLarge animals are still found across the area, including lowland gorillas, hippopotamus, forest elephants, crocodiles and numerous monkeys. The wetlands are also home to several hundred bird species, numerous snake species, and many as-yet-discovered aspects of the region.\n\nThere is a highly undeveloped dirt trail heading north from Impfondo along the river into the Central African Republic.\n"}
{"id": "1840618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840618", "title": "Aegir (moon)", "text": "Aegir (moon)\n\nAegir, also Saturn XXXVI (provisional designation S/2004 S 10), is a natural satellite of Saturn. Its discovery was announced by Scott S. Sheppard, David C. Jewitt, Jan Kleyna, and Brian G. Marsden on May 4, 2005, from observations taken between December 12, 2004, and March 11, 2005.\n\nAegir is about 6 kilometres in diameter, and orbits Saturn at an average distance of 19,618 Mm in 1025.908 days, at an inclination of 167° to the ecliptic (140° to Saturn's equator), in a retrograde direction and with an eccentricity of 0.237.\n\nThe moon was named in April 2007 after Ægir, a giant from Norse mythology, the personification of tranquil seas, the one who soothes storms away. He is a son of Fornjót, and brother of Logi (fire, flame) and Kári (wind).\n\nThe name may be pronounced various ways. (with the 'g' pronounced as a \"y\"-sound) approximates modern Norwegian and Icelandic. (with a hard 'g') approximates what the Old Norse may have sounded like, while the Latinized/spelling pronunciations , and are also found.\n\n"}
{"id": "1840619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840619", "title": "KDFI", "text": "KDFI\n\nKDFI, virtual and UHF digital channel 27, is a MyNetworkTV owned-and-operated television station licensed to Dallas, Texas, United States and serving the Dallas–Fort Worth Metroplex. The station is owned by the Fox Television Stations subsidiary of Fox Corporation, as part of a duopoly with Fox owned-and-operated station KDFW (channel 4), also licensed to Dallas. The two stations share studios on North Griffin Street (between Patterson and San Jacinto Streets) in downtown Dallas and transmitter facilities south of the junction of Belt Line and Mansfield Roads in Cedar Hill. There is no separate website for KDFI; instead, it is integrated with that of sister station KDFW.\n\nOn cable, KDFI is available on channel 7 on most providers in the Metroplex.\n\nThe UHF channel 27 allocation in the Dallas–Fort Worth market was initially applied for broadcasting use by Overmyer Communications, who filed a license application in 1966. Veteran radio broadcaster Gordon McLendon (who purchased the station for his son Barton) was granted a license for channel 27 in 1967 with a construction permit being issued in 1968. McLendon planned to launch a television station under the callsign KLIF-TV, which was to be based out of the building that also housed upstart radio station KNUS (98.7 FM, now KLUV) at 2110 Commerce; resources would also be pooled between the television and radio stations as KNUS planned to convert to an all-news format. However, the station never formally signed on and by 1972, the KLIF-TV license was deleted by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC). (The KLIF calls were later used for a radio station broadcasting at 570 AM.)\n\nThe current television station on UHF channel 27 traces its history to 1973, when Englewood, Colorado-based Liberty STV – a subsidiary of cable television provider Tele-Communications Inc. (TCI), which formed the company as part of a trust to avoid violating FCC cross-ownership rules prohibiting common ownership of television stations and cable television systems in markets where TCI owned cable systems – filed an application with the FCC for a license and construction permit to operate a commercial television station on channel 27 that would operate as a part-time subscription television service. A month before the FCC Broadcast Bureau granted Liberty a construction permit in February 1980, the name of the company changed to Liberty Television, Inc.\n\nThe station first signed on the air on January 26, 1981 as KTWS-TV. The station's original studio facilities were located at 433 Regal Row in northwest Dallas. Originally operating as an independent station, KDFI initially maintained a mixed information and entertainment schedule, running low-cost syndicated and barter programs (consisting of cartoons, sitcoms and drama series, religious programs, westerns and some public domain movies) from 7:00 a.m. until 7:00 p.m. weekdays, a mix of public affairs, outdoor sports and children's programs on Saturday mornings, and religious programs on Sunday mornings.\n\nIt also aired business news programming from the Financial News Network each weekday from 11:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m. and 3:30 to 4:00 p.m., as well as network programs from ABC, NBC and CBS that were respectively preempted by WFAA (channel 8), KXAS-TV (channel 5) and KDFW-TV (channel 4). The signal was scrambled weekdays from 7:00 p.m. until its 2:00 a.m. sign-off and weekends from 12:00 p.m. to 2:00 a.m. to transmit Preview, a subscription service that offered a mix of theatrically released feature films and required a special decoder box in order to receive the programs. (In September 1983, Preview was replaced by Video Entertainment Unlimited (VEU), after the former moved its affiliation to fellow independent KNBN-TV [channel 33, now CW affiliate KDAF].)\n\nOn October 25, 1983, Liberty Television sold the station to Richardson-based Dallas Media Investors Corporation (owned by former KDFW station manager John A. McKay and American Stock Exchange chairman Arthur Levin) for $12 million. The station briefly went dark after the sale was finalized on June 27, 1984; the following month, the station returned to the air and its call letters were changed to the current KDFI-TV on August 16, 1984. KDFI dropped VEU programming in 1985, and became a general entertainment station for the entire broadcast day. It began running low-budget syndicated programs, older cartoons, and B-movies. The station continued to run pre-empted network shows as well, and had been able to balance its books.\nIn February 1994, Argyle Television – then-owner of KDFW-TV – took over management responsibilities for KDFI under a local marketing agreement with Dallas Media Investors. The agreement – which resulted in KDFI integrating its operations into KDFW's studio facilities on North Griffin Street in downtown Dallas – allowed KDFW to provide advertising, promotional and master control services for KDFI, while Dallas Media Investors retained responsibilities over channel 27's programming and production services. Under KDFW/Argyle's oversight, KDFI also began to make additional improvements to its programming lineup, acquiring partial local rights to certain syndicated programs carried by KDFW (mostly talk shows).\n\nAdditional changes to channel 27's program lineup came as a result of a four-way affiliation shakeup spurred by an agreement between then-Fox network parent News Corporation and New World Communications. Under that deal, on July 2, 1995, KDFW – which had been affiliated with CBS since that station signed on in December 1949 – replaced KDAF (which Fox sold to Renaissance Broadcasting in order to affiliate with KDFW under the agreement and took over the market's WB affiliation from KXTX-TV, which carried the network under a temporary agreement) and the CBS affiliation shifting over to KTVT. In addition to carrying a mix of recent and classic sitcoms and drama series, some religious programs and a heavy schedule of talk shows in both the daytime and evening hours on weekdays, KDFI also acquired the local rights to several syndicated programs that KTVT was not able to retain because of CBS' network-dominated schedule (including a few animated series to fill certain morning timeslots, first-run and off-network syndicated scripted programs and syndicated movie packages).\nOn July 17, 1996, News Corporation — which separated most of its entertainment holdings into 21st Century Fox in July 2013 — announced that it would acquire New World Communications in an all-stock transaction worth $2.48 billion; the merger deal also included rights to the LMA with KDFI. The purchase of the New World stations and transfer of the LMA between KDFW and KDFI by News Corporation was finalized on January 22, 1997, folding KDFW and the operations of KDFI into the company's Fox Television Stations subsidiary.\n\nIn September 1997, KDFI acquired the local rights to the Fox Kids programming block, which remained with KDAF following Fox's sale of that station to Renaissance Broadcasting. Like other New World stations affected by the affiliation agreement, KDFW declined to carry the Fox Kids weekday and Saturday blocks upon joining Fox, choosing instead to air an expanded local morning newscast and first-run syndicated programs in place of the weekday blocks, and a local Saturday morning newscast, a mix of first-run and off-network syndicated children's programs, infomercials and local real estate programs on weekend mornings. With the acquisition of Fox Kids, KDFI dropped the few syndicated children's programs that remained in its inventory. As a result of decisions to turn those lineups' timeslots back over to Fox Kids' carrier stations, Fox discontinued its weekday morning children's block in September 1999, and its weekday afternoon block on December 31, 2001. The Saturday morning lineup, meanwhile, was contracted out to 4Kids Entertainment and relaunched as FoxBox (later renamed 4Kids TV) on September 14, 2002. Fox ended its network-supplied children's programming on December 28, 2008, amid a dispute over monetary compensation and affiliate clearance for the block's time-lease agreement. (4KidsTV was replaced on January 3, 2009, with the paid programming block \"Weekend Marketplace\".)\n\nChannel 27's programming lineup during this period had become a more traditional format for an independent station, with a mix of classic off-network sitcoms, syndicated talk and reality shows, movies as well as children's programs sourced from Fox Kids. In December 1999, four months after the FCC began permitting television station duopolies, Fox Television Stations purchased KDFI from Dallas Media Investors for $6.2 million, creating a legal duopoly with KDFW. The sale received FCC approval on February 18, 2000. The acquisition resulted in the KDFW/KDFI combination becoming the first television duopoly in the Metroplex and the first duopoly that Fox operated as a whole (predating the group's acquisition of Chris-Craft/United Television's UPN-affiliated stations on August 12 of that year).\n\nOn January 24, 2006, UPN parent company CBS Corporation and WB network parent Warner Bros. Entertainment announced that they would dissolve the two networks to create The CW, a joint network venture that initially featured a mix of original first-run series and programs that originated on The WB and UPN. On that date, The CW also signed a ten-year affiliation agreement with Tribune Broadcasting, under which sixteen of the group's eighteen WB-affiliated stations – including KDAF, which Tribune acquired as part of its July 1996 acquisition of Renaissance Broadcasting – would serve as the network's charter stations. In response to having its UPN affiliates be passed over for affiliations with The CW, Fox Television Stations stripped all network branding from and ceased promoting the network's programming on its UPN-affiliated stations. However, it is very unlikely that KDFI would have been selected as The CW's Metroplex area affiliate in any event. Representatives for The CW were on record as preferring to align with UPN and The WB's \"strongest\" affiliates; KDAF had been ahead of KDFI in the ratings since shortly after channel 33 became the market's original Fox owned-and-operated station in October 1986.\n\nNearly one month after the CW launch announcement, on February 22, 2006, Fox Television Stations and fellow News Corporation subsidiary Twentieth Television announced the launch of MyNetworkTV, a network created primarily to serve as a network programming option for UPN and WB stations that were left out of The CW's affiliation deals. Of the eleven stations that Fox announced would serve as the nuclei for the new network, KDFI was the only one to have been an independent station prior to joining MyNetworkTV, whereas the service's other News Corporation-owned charter stations – all but one of which was involved in the BHC Communications purchase six years earlier – had been affiliates of UPN.\n\nKDFI is also the largest MyNetworkTV-affiliated station, in terms of market size, to not have been formerly affiliated with either UPN or The WB prior to joining the network (which would convert into a \"programming service\" in September 2009). The station began branding itself on-air as \"My 27\" shortly after the announcement, reflecting the new network's branding conventions. A temporary logo using the circular 27 symbol and the word \"my\" (in place of the call letters) was created. The KDFI website accordingly changed its slogan to \"Shows I Like Are on My27\". On July 7, 2006, KDFI officially changed its logo to MyNetworkTV's four-square logo style. KDFI officially joined MyNetworkTV upon that network's launch on September 5, 2006, two weeks prior to the cessation of UPN's operations on September 17.\n\nOn August 28, 2017, KDFI changed its on-air branding to \"Fox 4 More\", aligning its brand with that of KDFW; the adoption of the \"Fox 4\" brand extension mirrored similar rebrandings of Fox Television Stations' MyNetworkTV O&Os or independent stations in other markets where the group has a duopoly (such as \"KTVU Plus,\" adopted from KTVU in San Francisco, \"Fox 5 Plus,\" adopted from WTTG in Washington, D.C., \"Fox 9 Plus,\" adopted from KMSP-TV in Minneapolis–St. Paul, and \"Fox 10 Xtra,\" adopted from KSAZ-TV in Phoenix) to increase their brand association with their parent Fox O&Os. As of the Fall 2019 television season, KDFI is known alternately as \"More 27\".\n\nThe station's digital signal is multiplexed:\nKDFI also has plans for a Mobile DTV feed of 27.1.\n\nKDFI launched digital subchannel 27.2 with programming from Bounce TV on March 30, 2012. KDFI added Movies! on digital channel 27.2 on May 27, 2013, with Bounce being moved to a new 27.3 subchannel. Bounce TV later moved to KUVN-DT 23.2. Buzzr was added to 27.3 on June 1, 2015.\n\nKDFI shut down its analog signal, over UHF channel 27, on June 12, 2009, as part of the federally mandated transition from analog to digital television. The station's digital signal remained on its pre-transition UHF channel 36, using PSIP to display KDFI's virtual channel as 27 on digital television receivers.\n\nKDFI carries the entire MyNetworkTV programming schedule; from the service's launch in September 2006, KDFI aired MyNetworkTV programming from its \"live\" feed each weeknight from 7:00 to 9:00 p.m. This lasted until August 2017, when KDFI began airing the service's programming on a one-hour delay from 8:00 to 10:00 p.m. (later pushed further to 9:00 to 11:00 p.m. in April 2018 and then 10:00 to midnight in September 2019). Syndicated programs broadcast by KDFI () include off-network repeats of \"The Big Bang Theory\", \"America Says\", \"Dateline\", \"Chicago P.D.\" and \"Modern Family\", as well as repeats of first-run syndicated programs seen earlier on KDFW, such as \"Extra\", \"The Real\", \"The Dr. Oz Show\" and \"Judge Judy\". There are also first-run syndicated programs that are only seen on KDFI, including \"Dish Nation\", \"Divorce Court\", \"Caught in Providence\", \"Family Feud\" and \"The 700 Club\". Occasionally as time permits, KDFI may air Fox network programs whenever KDFW is unable to in the event of extended breaking news or severe weather coverage.\n\nDue to its Fox ownership, KDFI did, for many years, broadcast Texas Rangers and Dallas Stars games that were not carried regionally by Fox Sports Southwest. Broadcasts of both teams' games moved to KTXA (channel 21) in 2010. KDFI began airing a number of Stars and Rangers games in network's high definition in early 2008.\n\nThe station also aired two Dallas Cowboys \"Thursday Night Football\" games that also aired on the NFL Network during the 2007–2008 NFL season, along with the high definition feed for those games. The games against the Green Bay Packers on November 29 and Carolina Panthers on December 22, 2007 were the highest-rated telecasts in the history of KDFI.\n\nWhen channel 27 (as KTWS-TV) signed on in January 1981, the station aired some limited local news programming in the form of five-minute news capsules that aired weekdays at the top of the hour between 4:00 and 6:00 p.m., anchored by former WFAA anchor Bob Gooding. After KDFW assumed management responsibilities for KDFI under a local marketing agreement between Argyle Television and Dallas Media Investors Corporation in January 1994, KDFI began airing tape-delayed rebroadcasts of KDFW's 10:00 p.m. newscast each weeknight at 10:30 p.m. In addition, during the summer and fall of 1994, KDFW also produced a daily 30-minute wrap-up of the proceedings in the O. J. Simpson murder case for KDFI, which aired in place of the 10:00 p.m. news rebroadcast. The news rebroadcasts were discontinued in September 1994.\n\nFor the remainder of the LMA's existence as well as the first 15 years under Fox ownership, KDFI did not broadcast any local news programming, either rebroadcasts or those produced specifically for channel 27 by KDFW. This ended on April 2, 2018, when KDFI began airing a rebroadcast of KDFW's 6:00 p.m. newscasts each weeknight at 7:00 p.m. – replacing first-run syndicated programs that had aired during the 7:00 half-hour – following the footsteps of other Fox-owned MyNetworkTV stations that have de-emphasized the service's branding during the 2017 calendar year, which have opted to air local newscasts produced by its parent Fox O&O after timeshifting the MyNetworkTV schedule to a later evening slot.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1840621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840621", "title": "Ouésso", "text": "Ouésso\n\nOuésso is a town in the northern Republic of the Congo, lying on the Sangha River and surrounded by rainforest. It is linked by ferry with Brazzaville and is known for the pygmy people who live nearby. It is the capital of the Sangha Region.\n\nIt is served by Ouésso Airport.\n\nOuésso has a tropical monsoon climate (Köppen climate classification \"Am\").\n\nIn April 2007, a Korean consortium proposed to build a railway to Ouésso from Brazzaville, in exchange for a concession to harvest timber.\n"}
{"id": "1840622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840622", "title": "Actuality film", "text": "Actuality film\n\nThe actuality film is a non-fiction film genre that, like the documentary film, uses footage of real events, places, and things, yet unlike the documentary is not structured into a larger argument, picture of the phenomenon or coherent whole. In practice, actuality films preceded the emergence of the documentary. During the era of early cinema, actualities—usually lasting no more than a minute or two and usually assembled together into a program by an exhibitor—were just as popular and prominent as their fictional counterparts. The line between \"fact\" and \"fiction\" was not so sharply drawn in early cinema as it would become after the documentary came to serve as the predominant non-fiction filmmaking form. An actuality film is not like a newspaper article so much as it is like the still photograph that is published along with the article, with the major difference being that it moves. Apart from the traveling actuality genre, actuality is one film genre that remains strongly related to still photography.\n\nDespite the demise of the actuality as a film genre around 1908, one still refers to \"actuality footage\" as a building block of documentary filmmaking. In such usage, actuality refers to the raw footage that the documentarist edits and manipulates to create the film.\n\nThe first actuality films date to the time of the very emergence of projected cinema. The Lumière Brothers in France were the principal advocates for this genre and also coined the term — \"Actualités\" — and used it as a descriptor in the printed catalogues of their films. \"La sortie des usines Lumière\" (1895) — the first film exhibited by the Lumières—is by default the earliest actuality film; it might have not been the first one made, but it was definitively the first one shown publicly, on December 28, 1895.\n\nAlthough the Thomas A. Edison, Inc. in the United States was producing films and exhibiting them via the Kinetoscope going back to 1893, the films themselves were studio-bound creations made in Edison's makeshift movie studio the Black Maria; although \"Bucking Broncho\" (1894) was the first Edison subject to be filmed outdoors, it necessitated the construction of a special pen next to the Black Maria. The Edison, and early Biograph, motion picture cameras were bulky, engineering-heavy designs that could not be lifted or carried by a single person and required transport by way of horse cart. The Lumière cameras—from the very start—were small, light and also functioned as projectors. The Paul-Acres camera, registered in Britain in 1895, was likewise a smaller and more readily portable device than the Edison model, and Birt Acres filmed \"The Derby\" (1895) on it in May. But this, and Paul's other films, were not projected in public until February 1896.\n\nEdison's first principal film producer W. K. L. Dickson broke away from the company late 1895 in order to act as partner in his own concern, American Mutoscope and Biograph, which by 1897 had a founded a British subsidiary that Dickson headed. Although their cameras were even bulkier than Edison's at first, utilizing 68mm film, Biograph's very first subjects — a series of views of Niagara Falls — were actualities, although studio bound subjects dominate the Biograph's years before 1900. Other pre-1900 concerns such as Selig (Chicago), Lubin (Philadelphia), Vitagraph (New York), Méliès Star-Film, Pathé Frères and Gaumont (France) and Warwick Trading Company (UK) all made actuality films, though in varying degrees in relation to films made in other genres.\n\nIt was the Lumières, however, that set the pace for most of the history of the actuality. Lumière films ran for the duration of the film strip in the camera, which was a uniform 50-second length. Lumière cameramen were trained to shoot in a specific type of framing and to keep an eye out for certain kinds of action. Louis Lumière personally approved every subject released and rejected about 500 films made for the company that did not meet his standards. They were consciously building a document of the world around them in 50-second shots, and Lumière cameramen had the greatest reach worldwide of any motion picture company in the business, filming in Asia, Africa and other hard to get places. They were careful to preserve and properly store their films, and all but 18 of the 1,423 films they made have survived.\n\nWhen the Lumière films as a whole were submitted to the \"Memory of the World\" register at UNESCO, they were subdivided into the following categories.\n\n\nThe first three descriptors nearly encompass the whole of the subject matter represented in actuality films, to which may be added \"news events,\" though these were relatively rare, as it was difficult for any motion picture cameraman to make it, with his equipment, to an actual news event in a timely fashion, leading to the advent of recreations. Nevertheless, both Vitagraph and Biograph released subjects filmed in Galveston after the hurricane of 1900; the aftermath of the San Francisco Earthquake was likewise filmed by at least three companies.\n\nThe Lumières never shared their camera system—with its 35mm film and round perforations—with anyone. But Pathé did begin to market its smaller, lighter camera to cinematographers around 1903, and even some cameramen employed by Edison and Biograph began to use them in defiance to the patent cameras owned by the companies that employed them. Biograph relented in 1903, discontinuing use of 68mm and adopting the increasingly universal 35mm format at this time. The significance of this was that it then became easier for film makers to shoot actuality films across the board, though the heyday of the genre was soon to pass.\n\nA special kind of actuality film is the traveling actuality, in which a camera is placed on a kind of conveyance—such as a bus, or rail car—so that the scene can change by virtue of the movement of the vehicle which is transporting the camera. These films were the first in which camera movement is involved, and a very early entry is James H. White's' \"Panoramic View of the Champs Elysees\" (1900), which appears to have been shot from a horse-drawn carriage. British Biograph's \"Panorama of Ealing from a Moving Tram\" (1901) is remarkable for its slow pace, high angle and the widescreen aspect of the 68mm film, whereas Danish film maker Thomas S. Hermanson's \"Sporvognene i Århus\" (1904) is remarkable for its speed and odd angles. Some extreme—almost avant-garde—examples come from Biograph; Frederick S. Armitage and A. E. Weed's \"Down the Hudson\" (1903), shot largely in single frames, and several films by G. W. Billy Bitzer, \"Interior N.Y. Subway, 14th St. to 42nd St\" (1905), which was shot from the front of a New York City Subway car shortly after the system first opened. The most remarkable traveling actuality of all is the Miles Brothers' \"Trip Down Market Street Before the Fire\" (1906), which was shot on a San Francisco streetcar and literally dropped off for processing on the day before the earthquake and fire destroyed San Francisco. At nearly eight minutes' length, \"Trip Down Market Street Before the Fire\" is also one of the longest actuality films.\n\nCertain types of early films lumped into the actuality genre are merely related forms and do not entirely belong to the designation. While sporting events—particularly boat and yacht races—figure into the actuality genre, fight films constitute a genre unto themselves. The first fight films, such as Edison's \"The Hornbacker-Murphy Fight\" (1894) actually precede the advent of actualities altogether and, as the genre evolved through 1916, consisted of a mixture of actual, recreated and staged bouts. The fixed camera position common in early cinema was a good match for taking in even many rounds of boxing, and interest in such subjects was further supported by the fact that boxing itself was illegal in most places, and the films provided access to such entertainment where live boxing matches were prohibited by law.\n\nRecreations of various kinds typify early kinds of news coverage; as the camera could not be brought to so many events of public significance or interest, the events were brought before the cameras, with actors and/or models of various kinds employed. This was especially common during the Spanish–American War; although cameras were dispatched to the front in Cuba, the footage sent back was often disappointing, so it was more effective to find a setting in New Jersey and to restage the battle scenes with actors. These films were often promoted to exhibitors and the public alike as the real thing, but \"recreations\" are inherently oxymoronic in relation to \"actualities.\"\n\nIn 1904, American born English filmmaker Charles Urban made \"Everyday London\", a 12-minute travelogue designed to provide views of England to Australians. This is a full-fledged documentary; although rather roughly assembled, it consists of a great many short shots and is clearly shaped in the manner of a documentary. In 1905, the Lumières ended their production of actualities, and within the next couple of years, major producers such as Edison and Biograph began to abandon the actuality genre; by 1907, American Biograph was no longer making them, and new start up companies such as Kalem never produced them at all, concentrating instead on fiction films with actors. When Gaston Méliès arrived in the United States to found the American division of Star Film, he started out making actualities, but swiftly moved into making Westerns. This left production of actualities to smaller producers such as Mitchell and Kenyon in the UK, a company that made no other kinds of films, although Pathé soldiered on among the majors.\n\nIn mid-1908, French Pathé introduced the first newsreel. The newsreel was a format in which actualities could be combined, and it provided a context for the views that was timely. Also that year, Charles Urban founded the Kinora Company, the first company established for the exclusive purpose of distributing documentaries and other kinds of non-fiction films. Although it is not altogether impossible to find actuality films made after 1910, the shift towards documentaries and newsreels rendered the genre irrelevant both commercially and artistically.\n\nIn a commercial sense, the actuality is of no more worth than its value as stock footage to use in documentaries. Some documentaries have been fashioned from early actualities and passed off as historic without further comment, such as a compilation entitled \"The San Francisco Earthquake\" which is rendered in a way that makes the original source material impossible to divine. However, actuality films are an inherent part of the development of early motion pictures and the genre deserves study in its own right; the UNESCO Lumière project, BFI's Mitchell and Kenyon collection and certain films in the Library of Congress paper print collection remain the only studies in the genre conducted in a systematic way. The sheer numbers of such films are part of the problem; early actuality films exist in the thousands, and many remain unidentified.\n\nAlthough actuality films may have disappeared from movie theaters, actuality footage, especially from video, has had considerable impact in the digital era. One late 20th century actuality video seen thousands of times on television in the months leading up to the LA consumer riots of 1993 was the police beating of , filmed by an amateur through the front window of their residence. The advent of YouTube has led to some resurgence of interest in actuality styled film and video apart from \"home movies,\" and the web has seen the advent of home-based webcams pointed out the window, and other things resulting from the easy availability of access to digital video. Whereas early film makers would shoot film after film and never have to proffer a single release form, the legal implications in the digital era are different; there is now a thin line between actuality filming and unwanted surveillance.\n\nArtist and filmmaker James Nares was inspired by actuality films from the 1890s to create his 61-minute, non-fiction film \"Street\" in 2011. Out of 16 hours of footage captured on Manhattan streets with an ultra-highspeed camera, Nares selected and edited together just 2 minutes and 40 seconds of real-time film, slowed to roughly a twentieth of its original speed. \"Framed as a montage of events rather than as a linear narrative, \"Street\" pulls our attention toward individuals among the masses that crowd the city’s sidewalks.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1840625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840625", "title": "Floyd Bannister", "text": "Floyd Bannister\n\nFloyd Franklin Bannister (born June 10, 1955) is an American former professional baseball left-handed pitcher, who played in Major League Baseball (MLB) for the Houston Astros (–), Seattle Mariners (–), Chicago White Sox (–), Kansas City Royals (–), California Angels (), and Texas Rangers (). Bannister also played for the Yakult Swallows of Nippon Professional Baseball (NPB), in .\n\nIn 1973, as a high school senior, Bannister led his Kennedy High School team to a state championship, pitching 15 wins and 0 losses with a season ERA of 0.00.\n\nBannister went on to attend Arizona State University, where he was named college player of the year by The Sporting News as a junior. This led to his selection by the Houston Astros as the first overall pick of the 1976 amateur draft.\n\nAfter pitching just seven games in the minors in , Bannister opened the season with the Astros. He appeared in 24 games with an 8-9 record and a 4.04 earned run average. He spent one more season with the Astros before being traded to the Seattle Mariners. He spent four years in Seattle, with his last year there being perhaps his best. Bannister was selected to the 1982 All-Star Game and led the American League with 209 strikeouts, his career best. In 1983 and 1985, he led the American League in strikeouts per nine innings with averages of 8.0 and 8.5, respectively.\n\nAfter that season, Bannister became a free agent, signing with the Chicago White Sox. He spent five seasons there as a solid starting pitcher. He then moved on to the Kansas City Royals, where he had another solid season in . However, in June he suffered an injury which knocked him out for the rest of the year. Finding no takers on the free agent market, Bannister went to Japan in , playing for the Yakult Swallows. He signed a minor league contract with the California Angels in , where he was converted into a reliever. After one last season with the Texas Rangers in , Bannister was released in August, ending his professional career.\n\nArmed with a strong fastball, an excellent slider, and above average curveball, Bannister recorded an average of 6.49 strikeouts per nine innings in his career, but was also shuffled between six different teams in his 15-year career. He gave up more than 30 home runs in four different seasons and was followed by criticism for a reluctance to move hitters off the plate by pitching inside.\n\nIn a 15-year major league career, Bannister compiled a 134-143 record, with a 4.06 ERA in 431 games (363 starts). He had 62 complete games in his career, along with 16 shutouts. He amassed 1723 strikeouts over his career, averaging 147 a year.\n\nHis son, Brian Bannister, pitched for five seasons for the New York Mets and the Kansas City Royals. Floyd (\"Flo B\") now manages Brian's professional photography studio in Phoenix.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1840626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840626", "title": "Sheung Shui Wai", "text": "Sheung Shui Wai\n\nSheung Shui Wai (), also known as Sheung Shui Heung () is an area in Sheung Shui, in the northern part of the New Territories of Hong Kong. Its population is around 6,000 people.\n\nSheung Shui Heung consists of the following villages:\n\nThe area is the core of the Liu () clan, of which ancestors came originally from Fujian during the Yuan Dynasty (1271–1368). It is widely believed that the Liu clan began to settle in this part of the New Territories at the end of the 16th century.\n\nWai Loi Tsuen is the area's original settlement, with its construction completed around 1584. In 1688, the size of the clan was approximately 500. As the population grew, other settlements were added: Po Sheung Tsuen, Chung Sum Tsuen and Mun Hau Tsuen were founded between 1819 and 1898. The villages are collectively named \"Sheung Shui Heung\".\n\nWai Loi Tsuen is a walled village. It is the area's original settlement, with its construction completed around 1584. It is one of the very few rural settlements having retained its original moat. The wall and the moat around Wai Loi Tsuen were constructed between 1646 and 1647. The village contains a Tin Hau and a Hung Shing temples. Both have been renovated to modern structures.\n\nThe Liu Man Shek Tong Ancestral Hall () in Mun Hau Tsuen was built in 1751. The three-hall two-courtyard building is the main ancestral hall of the Liu of the area. It is a declared monument since January 18, 1985.\n\nLiu Ming Tak Tong Ancestral Hall, located in Po Sheung Tsuen, was first built in 1811 or 1828. The building was demolished in 1972 and reconstructed in 1973, with only a granite door frame remaining from the original hall.\n\nThe Liu Ying Lung Study Hall (), located at Po Sheung Tsuen, was built in 1838. It is a traditional two-hall study hall with an open courtyard in between. It is a Grade II Historic Building. A restoration project was conducted ahead of the once-in-60-year dajiao festival held in 2006. The project won an Honourable Mention in the 2006 UNESCO Asia-Pacific Heritage Awards for Culture Heritage Conservation.\n\nThe Old Sheung Shui Police Station (), located in Po Sheung Tsuen, was built in 1902. When the new Sheung Shui Police Station opened in 1979, the old station became a police reporting centre, and later housed a Junior Police Corps (JPC) Club House. It is a Grade III historic building.\n\n"}
{"id": "1840629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840629", "title": "Bergelmir (moon)", "text": "Bergelmir (moon)\n\nBergelmir or Saturn XXXVIII (provisional designation S/2004 S 15) is a natural satellite of Saturn. Its discovery was announced by Scott S. Sheppard, David C. Jewitt, Jan Kleyna, and Brian G. Marsden on May 4, 2005, from observations taken between December 12, 2004, and March 9, 2005.\n\nBergelmir is about in diameter, and orbits Saturn at an average distance of 19,372 Mm in 1006.659 days, at an inclination of 157° to the ecliptic (134° to Saturn's equator), in a retrograde direction and with an eccentricity of 0.152. Its rotation period is hours.\n\nIt was named in April 2007 after Bergelmir, a giant from Norse mythology and the grandson of Ymir, the primordial giant. Bergelmir and his wife alone among their kind were the only survivors of the enormous deluge of blood from Ymir's wounds when he was killed by Odin and his brothers at the dawn of time. Bergelmir then became the progenitor of a new race of giants.\n\n"}
{"id": "1840635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840635", "title": "Owando", "text": "Owando\n\nOwando is a town in the central Republic of the Congo, lying on the Kouyou River. It is the capital of Cuvette Department and an autonomous commune. It is home to a market and has an airport.\n\nIt was formerly known as Fort-Rousset. It gained the status of \"commune\" on March 16, 2017\n\nFounded as Rousset in 1903 and quickly renamed Fort-Rousset in 1904, Owando got its African name back in 1977.\n\nA Roman Catholic diocese was established on 14 September 1955.\n\n"}
{"id": "1840639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840639", "title": "Power closed", "text": "Power closed\n\nIn mathematics a p-group formula_1 is called power closed if for every section formula_2 of formula_1 the product of formula_4 powers is again a formula_4th power.\n\nRegular p-groups are an example of power closed groups. On the other hand, powerful p-groups, for which the product of formula_4 powers is again a formula_4th power are not power closed, as this property does not hold for all sections of powerful p-groups.\n\nThe power closed 2-groups of exponent at least eight are described in .\n"}
{"id": "1840643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840643", "title": "Dolisie", "text": "Dolisie\n\nDolisie, known as Loubomo between 1975 and 1991, is a city in the western province of Niari in the Republic of the Congo. It is the country's third largest city, and an important commercial centre. The city lies on the eastern edge of the coastal rainforest, and has a population of 83,798 (2007 census).\n\nThe city was founded as a station on the Congo-Ocean Railway, and it was named after Pierre Savorgnan de Brazza's lieutenant Albert Dolisie.\nIt became a thriving city thanks to the wealth of the railway, and it had 20,000 inhabitants in 1972. The city's name changed to Loubomo in 1975, and soon it became the third largest city in Congo-Brazzaville. The civil war of the late 1990s caused an exodus of rural people towards cities, and Loubomo's population has significantly increased since then.\n\nDolisie is a major rail center. Its location marks the link between the east-west Congo-Ocean Railway and the Mbinda line which runs north to the border with Gabon at Mbinda.\nDolisie is also home to numerous small industries (wood, lumber).\n\nDolise is home to Dolisie Airport.\n\nDolisie-Loubomo railway station on the Congo–Ocean Railway provides daily rail service to Pointe-Noire, Brazzaville and intermediate points.\n\nDolisie is twinned with:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1840644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840644", "title": "S/2004 S 17", "text": "S/2004 S 17\n\nS/2004 S 17 is a natural satellite of Saturn. Its discovery was announced by Scott S. Sheppard, David C. Jewitt, Jan Kleyna, and Brian G. Marsden on May 4, 2005 from observations taken between December 13, 2004 and March 5, 2005.\nS/2004 S 17 is about 4 kilometres in diameter, and orbits Saturn at an average distance of 19,099 Mm in 985.453 days, at an inclination of 167° to the ecliptic (162° to Saturn's equator), in a retrograde direction and with an eccentricity of 0.226.\n\nThis moon has not been seen since its discovery and is currently considered lost.\n\n"}
{"id": "1840647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840647", "title": "Baggy", "text": "Baggy\n\nBaggy was a British dance-oriented rock music genre popular in the late 1980s and early 1990s.\n\nThe scene was heavily influenced by Madchester, although it was not geographically confined to the city of Manchester. Many Madchester bands could also be described as baggy, and vice versa. Baggy was characterised by psychedelia and acid house-influenced guitar music, often with a \"funky drummer\" beat, similar to the work of the Happy Mondays, Northside and The Stone Roses. The scene was named after the loose-fitting clothing worn by the bands and fans.\n\nSome bands, such as The Mock Turtles and The Soup Dragons, reinvented their sound and image to fit in with the new scene. This led some critics to accuse baggy bands of bandwagon-jumping and derivative songwriting. There was also a crossover between dance and indie, and vice versa.\n\nBands in the alternative dance era of pop music can be divided into two camps; the acts who could be described as baggy (usually the Madchester acts and a few others such as Flowered Up from London), and those who can be described as alternative dance (i.e. Jesus Jones and The Shamen, who were more techno inspired). The Shamen would begin as a psychedelic indie rock band, sharing some of the characteristics of early shoegaze bands, but their style would morph between psychedelic indie rock and acid house, before absorbing more elements of techno.\n\nAlongside the music, a way of dressing emerged that gave baggy its name. Baggy jeans (often flared) alongside brightly coloured or tie-dye casual tops and general '60s style became fashionable first in Manchester and then across the country – frequently topped off with a fishing hat in the style sported by the Stone Roses' drummer Reni. The overall look was part rave, part retro or part hippie, part football casual. Many Madchester bands had football casual fans and a number of bands even wore football shirts. Eaitisham Ahmed's Manchester-based Joe Bloggs fashion label specialised in catering for the scene, making him a multi-millionaire.\n\nIt is also generally accepted that French stylists Marithé et François Girbaud were one of the first designers to integrate baggy in fashion industry.\n\nSome baggy bands evolved into indie rock or Britpop bands who remained popular throughout the 1990s. The Charlatans retained their popularity, although little trace of the baggy sound and look remained.\n\nThe baggy style was eclipsed by the grunge and Britpop genres. Apart from tribute acts, the style has been absent from the indie arena, with acts like the 2001 Manchester band Waterfall failing to interest record companies with their revival sound.\n\nAnother wave of bands in the style of the past baggy Madchester sound is currently in process. Bands such as Kasabian, Reverend and the Makers, The Ruling Class, Sulk, The Bavarian Druglords, and Working For A Nuclear Free City have brought back aspects of the style in various forms and have garnered comparisons to The Stone Roses and the Madchester sound. Clothes wise the flares may not be in fashion but the designer names and sport casual look can still be seen in the Baggymod look.\n"}
{"id": "1840651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840651", "title": "Madingo-Kayes", "text": "Madingo-Kayes\n\nMadingo-Kayes is a town lying at the mouth of the Kouilou River on the Atlantic Ocean of the Republic of the Congo. It lies on the edge of the coastal rainforest.\n"}
{"id": "1840652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840652", "title": "Cameco", "text": "Cameco\n\nCameco Corporation is the world's largest publicly traded uranium company, based in Saskatoon, Saskatchewan. In 2015, it was the world's second largest uranium producer, accounting for 18% of world production.\n\n\"Cameco - Canadian Mining and Energy Corporation\" was formed in 1988 by the merger and privatization of two crown corporations: the federally owned Eldorado Nuclear Limited (known previously as Eldorado Mining and Refining Limited) and Saskatchewan-based Saskatchewan Mining Development Corporation (SMDC). The name was later shortened to \"Cameco Corporation\".\n\nThe new company was initially owned 62% by the provincial government and 38% by the federal government. The initial public offering (IPO) for 20% of the company was conducted in July, 1991. Government ownership of the company decreased over the next eleven years, with full privatization occurring in February, 2002.\n\nIn 1996, Cameco acquired Power Resources Inc., the largest uranium producer in the United States. This was followed in 1998 by the acquisition of Canadian-based Uranerz Exploration and Mining Limited and Uranerz U.S.A., Inc.\n\nIn 2011, Cameco signed an agreement with Talvivaara Mining Company whereby Cameco would pay US$60 million to construct a uranium extraction circuit at the Talvivaara nickel-zinc mine in Sotkamo. Talvivaara would then pay back the initial construction costs in the form of uranium concentrate; once the initial costs were paid Cameco would continue to purchase the uranium concentrate at a pricing formula based on market price on the day of delivery.\n\nIn 2012, it acquired a nuclear fuel intermediary Nukem Energy.\n\nIn 2016, Cameco suspended operations at its Rabbit Lake mine, due to low uranium prices. In 2017, it suspended operations for at least 10 months at its McArthur River mine and Key Lake mill, converting that to an indefinite shutdown in 2018 involving the layoff of about 700 staff.\n\nCameco operates uranium mines in North America and Kazakhstan, including McArthur River-Key Lake, the world's largest uranium producer, and Cigar Lake, the world's highest grade uranium mine, both in Saskatchewan. Other operations in Saskatchewan include a mine and mill at Rabbit Lake, currently in care and maintenance.\n\nIn the United States, Cameco operates uranium mines in the states of Nebraska and Wyoming through its US subsidiary Cameco Resources Inc. Cameco Resources was formed in 2007 through a restructuring of two wholly owned subsidiaries, Power Resources Inc. (Wyoming) and Crow Butte Resources, Inc. (Nebraska).\n\nIn the province of Ontario, Cameco operates a uranium refinery in Blind River and a uranium conversion facility in Port Hope, which has faced opposition from some community groups. Cameco is the exclusive fuel supplier to Bruce Power, which supplies 30% of Ontario's electricity through its nuclear generating plant. It used to own part of Bruce Power, but it sold its interest in 2014.\n\nIn 2004, Cameco spun off its gold mining operations in Kyrgyzstan, Mongolia and the USA to a newly formed public company, Centerra Gold. Cameco divested its remaining interest in Centerra on December 30, 2009.\n\nIn January 2011, Cameco participated in the clean up of a ship-board uranium concentrate spill on the MCP Altona that had occurred on December 23, 2010.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1840653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840653", "title": "Black Mask (character)", "text": "Black Mask (character)\n\nBlack Mask (Roman Sionis) is a fictional supervillain appearing in American comic books published by DC Comics. Created by Doug Moench and Tom Mandrake, he made his first appearance in \"Batman\" #386 (August, 1985). The character is commonly depicted as a brutal and ruthless crime lord in Gotham City who has a fixation with masks and derives sadistic pleasure from the act of torture. Black Mask is one of the most enduring enemies of the superhero Batman and belongs to the collective of adversaries that make up his rogues gallery.\n\nThe character has been substantially adapted from the comics into various forms of media, including the cartoon television series \"The Batman\", the animated film \"\", and the \"\" video game franchise. Black Mask made his live-action cinematic debut in the DC Extended Universe film \"Birds of Prey\", portrayed by Ewan McGregor.\n\nBlack Mask's origin story was established in his first appearance. Roman Sionis was born to wealthy and utterly self-absorbed parents, who cared more about their social status in Gotham City than their own son. Moments after Roman's birth, the doctor carelessly dropped him on his head, and his parents covered up the entire incident so that their high society friends would not find out. Years later, he was attacked by a rabid raccoon at the Sionis family country estate, and his parents forbade him to mention the incident to anyone. Despite their dislike for fellow socialites Thomas and Martha Wayne, Roman's parents continued to associate with them to maintain their social standing, and forced Roman to befriend their son, Bruce. His parents' hypocrisy had a deep impact on Roman, and he grew to resent them and the \"masks\" that they wore in public.\n\nAfter graduating from high school, Roman was given a high-ranking position in his father's company, Janus Cosmetics. There, he met and fell in love with working class model Circe, though his parents did not approve of the relationship and forced him to break it off. Enraged, Roman burned down his family mansion, killing both of his parents and inheriting their fortune and business. Roman lacked his father's business acumen and eventually ruined Janus Cosmetics by funding a failed line of face-paint make-up. Desperate, Roman had the staff chemists create a product that was rushed to the market without proper testing, disfiguring several hundred women. Circe, now Roman's fiancée, then broke up with him in front of his entire staff.\n\nBruce Wayne, now the head of Wayne Enterprises, offered to bail Janus Cosmetics out on the condition that Roman gave up control and allowed Wayne to appoint his own Board of Directors. Humiliated and furious, Roman broke into the cemetery where his parents were buried. Before he could unlock the Sionis crypt, a lightning bolt struck him, blasting the door open and hurling Roman head-first into a nearby stone. Roman took the incident as an omen of his \"rebirth\" and entered the crypt, smashing his father's ebony casket with the stone and using its shattered pieces to carve a skull-like mask, starting a new life as the crimelord Black Mask.\n\nWithin a month, Black Mask had assembled a group of dozens of criminals called the False Face Society, using the Sionis crypt as their base of operations. Each member of the False Face Society wore a distinctive mask, and the gang's crime spree spread rapidly throughout Gotham, eventually attracting the attentions of the police and Bruce Wayne, now operating as the vigilante Batman.\n\nTo settle old scores, Black Mask murdered three Wayne Foundation executives and kidnapped Circe, forcing her to don a mask laced with Janus Cosmetics' toxic makeup, sparing her life but permanently disfiguring her face. Black Mask then threatened Circe into rejoining him, giving her a \"mannequin\" mask intentionally designed to mock her former life.\n\nBatman eventually managed to deduce Black Mask's identity, and correctly predicted that Bruce Wayne would be Sionis' next target. To set a trap for Black Mask, Bruce held a masquerade ball at Wayne Manor, and Sionis infiltrated the ball and lured Bruce to the mansion's conservatory to kill him. Bruce disarmed Sionis, forcing the latter to retreat to his hideout with Robin (Jason Todd) secretly following him. While Batman and Robin fought his underlings at the graveyard, Black Mask escaped through a false bottom installed in his father's coffin and headed to his family estate. Black Mask then entered his old bedroom and set fire to the old toys inside, intending to burn the mansion to the ground to symbolically kill his old identity as Sionis. Before Black Mask could escape, Batman flung a Batarang-attached cable around the crime lord's knees, causing him to fall face-first on the burning floor just as the bedroom's rafters began to collapse. The rafters pinned Black Mask's face into the pile of burning toys, and although Batman and Robin were able to tow him out of the fire, Sionis' mask had been burned onto his face.\n\nBlack Mask was subsequently sent to Arkham Asylum, where he remained behind bars until the international terrorist Ra's al Ghul freed all of its inmates. Black Mask was not amongst the criminals who followed the Joker in searching for the one behind the breakout and thus never took part in the \"war\" against Batman's allies and loved ones. As this tale was the last \"canonical\" one to take place on Earth-One, it can be assumed that Black Mask remained at large.\n\nFollowing \"Crisis on Infinite Earths\", Jeremiah Arkham frees all of Arkham Asylum's inmates, including Black Mask, to attack Batman during the events of \"\". Sionis then returns to crime after an unspecified breakout, evidently retaining most of his Pre-\"Crisis\" history. He soon begins the False Face Society anew, rising through the ranks of Gotham City's underworld while furthering his vendetta against Bruce Wayne. To stop the False Face Society, Batman poses as a new recruit to their ranks, christened \"Skullface\" by Black Mask himself. Black Mask later kidnaps Lucius Fox, who had a hand in Bruce Wayne's bailout of Janus Cosmetics. Although Batman is eventually able to save Fox, Black Mask manages to evade capture.\n\nBlack Mask remains at large throughout the events of \"\" and \"Zero Hour\", and resurfaces shortly thereafter to kill rival mobster \"Dirty Dan\" Doyle in an ambush shootout.\n\nBlack Mask is later approached by the Black Spider, who wishes to join the False Face Society. Black Mask demands the young man to \"make his bones\" first by crashing a masquerade ball being held at Wayne Manor. Batman later learns that the Black Spider is a double agent working for mobster \"Turk\" Ottoman, and tracks him down to an abandoned theater where he prevents him from shooting Black Mask, who subsequently escapes during the chaos.\n\nBlack Mask reappears as a crimelord in \"The Cult\" storyline, having given up his vendetta against Bruce Wayne. He controls a large portion of Gotham's criminal underworld until the city is destroyed by an earthquake in the \"No Man's Land\" story arc. Black Mask later becomes the leader of a cult, whose trademark is ritual scarring, until Batman and the Huntress dissolve it by defeating and imprisoning Black Mask in Blackgate Penitentiary, though the crime lord escapes before the city is made a part of the country again.\n\nIn \"Catwoman\" #16, Black Mask begins a drug trafficking ring and decides to move his organization into Gotham's East End. Catwoman soon begins interfering with Black Mask's plans, stealing money from him and giving it to the poor. Black Mask retaliates by forcing Sylvia Sinclair to reveal Catwoman's secret identity to him. After destroying Catwoman's youth center, Black Mask kidnaps her sister and brother-in-law, the latter of whom he tortures to death with power tools, before forcing the former to eat pieces of her husband's corpse, including his eyeballs. Catwoman arrives to find her brother-in-law dead, her sister insane, and her friend Holly Robinson on the verge of being tortured. Enraged, Catwoman engages Black Mask at his penthouse, where the crime lord falls from the top of the building.\n\nIn Act Two of \"\", the Spoiler seeks Orpheus out, hoping to get Batman control of all of Gotham's crime lords. However, Black Mask murders Orpheus by slitting his throat, and proceeds to torture the Spoiler to obtain information about the rest of her plan. Black Mask then assumes Orpheus' identity using face putty and padding, fooling even Batman and Onyx. As Orpheus, he goes on a mission to kill any member or associate of the Batman Family. As Black Mask returns to continue torturing the Spoiler for entertainment, he finds that she has escaped and subsequently tracks her down. Although she escapes his clutches once again, the Spoiler supposedly dies due to the injuries inflicted on her and the willful negligence of Leslie Thompkins.\n\nBlack Mask later infiltrates Oracle's Clocktower in an attempt to expose her to the mob, and Batman attacks him in a blind rage. Fearful that Black Mask will kill Batman, Oracle activates a self-destruct device in the tower to get Batman to save her. Black Mask then becomes the overlord of Gotham's underworld, gathering enough financial resources to purchase an Amazo android and a large supply of kryptonite. Allied with reporter Arturo Rodriguez, Black Mask begins a campaign to discredit Batman; while Rodriguez slams Batman in the press, Black Mask commits a series of murders disguised as the Dark Knight. The real Batman eventually exposes Rodriguez and captures Black Mask, but the crimelord kills the escorting officer transporting him to jail and escapes again.\n\nLater, a series of attacks by the Red Hood (revealed later as being Batman's presumed deceased protégé Jason Todd) causes Black Mask to losing power and money to this new rival. The assassin Deathstroke later approaches Black Mask, offering him a place within the Society. Eager to strengthen his increasingly tenuous grip on the underworld, the crimelord accepts. However, the Red Hood is even able to elude the Society's members; eventually he complete dismantling Black Mask's control over the city's organized crime. Black Mask then continues to threaten the most important people in Catwoman's life, prompting her to retaliate by shooting Black Mask's jaw with her gun, killing him. After the shooting, Selina Kyle passes the mantle of Catwoman to her friend Holly, who is soon arrested for Sionis' murder. During the \"Gotham Underground\" storyline, dozens of would-be crime bosses attempt to fill in the vacancy created by Black Mask's death.\n\nIn \"Blackest Night\", Black Mask is resurrected as a Black Lantern, and attempts to show Catwoman why \"shooting him in the head was a bad idea\". In an attempt to scare Catwoman, Black Mask goes after her sister once more. He demonstrates the ability to fly and reorganize the structures of buildings. Poison Ivy manages to stop Black Mask by trapping him inside a mutated pitcher plant, its digestive juices dissolving his body as fast as his ring could regenerate it.\n\nIn September 2011, \"The New 52\" rebooted DC's continuity. In this new timeline, Roman Sionis is re-established as Black Mask, and his history with the False Face Society remains somewhat intact. This version of the character has split personality disorder, with Roman Sionis being one personality and Black Mask being the other, and the technology in his mask grants him the ability to control \"the weak minded.\" Roman Sionis is first seen in Arkham Asylum's infirmary being treated by Dr. Jeremiah Arkham during the Night of the Owls; Sionis attempted a hunger strike to try and regain his mask. When the Talons attack the Asylum, Dr. Arkham gives Sionis his mask back to telepathically influence the inmates into attacking the Talons and keep anyone from following Arkham to his safe room. Black Mask then attempts to use his abilities on Batman, but fails and is forced to escape the asylum. Black Mask later resurfaces to re-assemble the False Face Society, coming into conflict with the Mad Hatter while doing so (who considers Black Mask an enemy due to their similar mind control abilities). Batman intervenes and puts an end to their battle, and Sionis is sent back to Arkham Asylum. During the \"Forever Evil\" storyline, Black Mask appears as a member of the Secret Society of Super Villains when the Crime Syndicate arrive from their Earth. Black Mask and his False Face Society crash the Rogues's battle against Mr. Freeze and Clayface to claim the bounty on the Rogues.\n\nIn the \"DC Rebirth\" reboot, Roman Sionis remains one of Gotham's most powerful crimelords. This version of the character dons a black metallic mask, and is allied with the Penguin and the Great White Shark in an alliance known as \"the Blacks and Whites\". Together, they hire the KGBeast to kill Batman.\n\nIn the \"Watchmen\" sequel \"Doomsday Clock\", Black Mask is among the villains that attend an underground meeting held by the Riddler to talk about the Superman Theory.\n\nIn \"Teen Titans Rebirth\", Damian Wayne keeps Black Mask locked up in his secret prison after learning about his involvement in the destruction of the Arab restaurant Tarbooshes.\n\nBlack Mask is a criminal mastermind and tactical analyst with vast wealth and resources at his disposal, making him one of the most powerful crime bosses in Gotham City's criminal underbelly. He utilizes his various connections to eliminate opposition and consolidates power using fear and intimidation; he is renowned for his brutally sadistic physical and psychological torture techniques, which he uses either to extract information or simply to torment his enemies for entertainment. Black Mask is an expert marksman with firearms, particularly with his signature twin automatic pistols, although he is proficient with melee weapons such as swords as well. He is a skilled hand-to-hand combatant and has displayed impressive levels of stamina and endurance; his high tolerance for pain has allowed him to hold his own against accomplished fighters, such as Batman and Catwoman. Black Mask is also an accomplished businessman, impersonator, actor, and escape artist.\n\nPer the events of \"The New 52\", Roman Sionis' ebony black mask possesses hypnosis-like mind controlling abilities that extend through the material of the masks that his henchmen wear, rendering them directly under his control. Black Mask has also killed his victims by applying toxin-filled masks to their faces, poisoning them and leaving their faces hideously shriveled and blackened.\n\nIn the \"\" storyline, a second criminal using the Black Mask alias emerges. His identity is eventually revealed to be Dr. Jeremiah Arkham, who took up Roman Sionis' mantle after suffering a psychotic breakdown from exposure to a variety of mind-altering chemicals from various Batman villains.\n\nIn \"DC Rebirth\" it was revealed that Black Mask's father Richard Sionis was the precursor to the Black Mask alias, where he was just called \"the Mask\" and was the founder of the False Face Society. When Richard was in the hospital and dying of old age, Roman sneaked into the hospital disguised as a nurse and poisoned his father in order to gain complete control over the False Face Society, though he does leave his father's signature mask on his corpse. This story retconned the information where Charles Sionis was his father.\n\nIn the \"Elseworlds\" storyline \"\", Black Mask arrogantly dismisses Two-Face's warnings about the now-vampiric Batman, believing himself untouchable until Batman attacks the False Face Society in their warehouse base while in the form of a monstrous bat. The vampiric Dark Knight tears through Black Mask's minions, even tearing a man's head off with his mouth, and is later shown leaving the Society's severed heads outside Blackgate Penitentiary.\n\nBlack Mask appears in \"Batman: Gotham Adventures\", the accompanying comic book series to \"The New Batman Adventures\" animated series, set within the DC animated universe.\n\nDuring \"The Batman Adventures\" comic book series, Roman Sionis is depicted as a businessman who turned his company into a corporate juggernaut, until Wayne Enterprises results in the loss of his industry. An associate of Red Hood then approaches Roman, convincing him to become the Black Mask and lead the False Face Society, though he is ultimately apprehended by Batman.\n\nIn \"The Batman Strikes!\" comics, Black Mask extorts Bruce Wayne into making a deal with him, and attempts to take complete control of Gotham's criminal underworld by ridding it of its other villains.\n\nBlack Mask appears in issues #35–37 (storyline \"Evidence Notice\") of \"\", the prequel tie-in comic book to the video game \"Batman: Arkham City\".\n\nIn \"\", Black Mask is seen fighting against the Justice League during Harley Quinn's riot, and later appears in Year Five, where he gathers with six other criminals. When Damian Wayne intervenes in their meeting, the villains knock him into unconsciousness until Dick Grayson saves him.\n\n\n\nRoman Sionis/Black Mask is featured in the \"\" video game franchise, voiced by Nolan North (in \"Arkham City\") and by Brian Bloom (in subsequent appearances). This version of the character is known for using body doubles in situations that may endanger his own life.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1840654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840654", "title": "Richard Dotson", "text": "Richard Dotson\n\nRichard Elliott Dotson (born January 10, 1959) is a former right-handed pitcher in Major League Baseball in the 1980s. He is best noted for his 22-7 performance of , helping the Chicago White Sox win the American League West Division championship that season. Dotson finished fourth in the American League Cy Young Award voting, behind teammate LaMarr Hoyt. Arm injuries came to limit, however, what was a promising baseball career.\n\nIn a 12-season career, Rich Dotson recorded a record of 111-113 with a 4.23 ERA in 305 games, 295 of them starts. He pitched 55 complete games and 11 shutouts in his career. Dotson gave up 872 earned runs and struck out 973 in 1857 and 1/3 innings pitched.\n\nDotson was born in Cincinnati and attended Anderson High School.\n\nHe was drafted out of high school by the California Angels in the summer of 1977, but traded that December in a blockbuster six-player deal, going to the Chicago White Sox along with Bobby Bonds and Thad Bosley in exchange for Brian Downing, Dave Frost and Chris Knapp.\n\nHis debut in the majors was not an auspicious one. White Sox manager Tony La Russa handed him the ball on September 4, 1979 as the starter for a game at Anaheim, but the 20-year-old Dotson retired only four Angels and left the park that day with a gaudy earned-run average of 33.75.\n\nBy the next season, Dotson was a 12-game winner in the Chicago rotation. In 1981, he led the American League in shutouts with four. But his breakout season definitely was 1983. Dotson's 22 wins were the second-most in the league, and included 14 complete games. On the final day of the regular season, he and Dennis Lamp combined for a shutout at Seattle that put the White Sox in first place by a whopping 20 games over the nearest contender.\n\nHe and the Sox did not make it to the World Series, dropping the 1983 American League Championship Series to the Baltimore Orioles three games to one. Dotson became an All-Star the following summer, working two scoreless innings in the 1984 All-Star Game at Candlestick Park.\n\nAlthough his career never again reached those heights, Dotson did go 12-9 in the New York Yankees' rotation in 1988. The team was in first place for much of the season's first half, including in late July, before fading. Dotson had a strong finish, combining with two relievers on September 29 for a seven-hitter at Baltimore in his final start of the season.\n\nDotson served as the pitching coach for the Charlotte Knights for nine seasons before becoming the pitching coordinator for their Major League affiliate, the Chicago White Sox.\n"}
{"id": "1840656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840656", "title": "Vampyre Erotica", "text": "Vampyre Erotica\n\nVampyre Erotica is the fifth album by British Goth rockers Inkubus Sukkubus, their fourth full-length studio album. It contains 12 original songs and a cover of \"Paint It, Black\" by The Rolling Stones.\n\nAs with all of Inkubus Sukkubus' work, the album sticks firmly to neo-pagan themes, emotional angst and vampire folklore.\n\nIn 2010 the song Vampyre Erotica was featured in the soundtrack to the British cult comedy vampire film \"The Vampires of Bloody Island\" released on the Wibbell DVD label. The film also features five other songs by Tony McKormack's earlier band Vampire Division, including the film's title track \"Place of the Dead\".\n\nAll songs written by Candia Ridley and Tony McKormack, except where noted.\n\n"}
{"id": "1840662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840662", "title": "Hakim Muhammad Sharif Khan", "text": "Hakim Muhammad Sharif Khan\n\nHakim Muhammad Sharif Khan (1722 – 1807) was a Sunni Muslim Hakim (physician in Unani / Greek medicine) of some importance in Mughal India at the end of 18th century. \n\nMuhammad Sharif Khan was born in 1722 in Delhi. His ancestors arrived in India from modern day Uzbekistan during the time of Mughal emperor Babur (ruled 1526 – 1530). Muhammad Sharif Khan studied at a \"madrasa\" in Delhi that was run by the sons of eminent religious scholar of the Naqshbandi order Shah Waliullah Dehlawi. He was the royal Hakim at the court of Mughal emperor Shah Alam II (ruled 1759-1806) who gave him the title Ashraf-al-Hukma (The Best of Physicians). Hakim Muhammad Sharif Khan also possibly treated this emperor's son Akbar II (ruled 1806-1837).\n\nSince Hakim Sharif was based in Delhi, his family of hakims, the \"Sharifi family\", came to be recognised as the Delhi school of Hakims.\n\nMuhammad Sharif Khan came from a \"a family of theologians and physicians\", and ultimately descended from Ubayd-Allah Mahmud Ahrar (died 1490), \"an influential Sufi Shaikh of the Naqshbandi order in Transoxiana\".\n\nHe was a prolific writer, and wrote some seventeen books on medicine, of which the most famous was \"Elaaj al-Amraaz\", (The Cures for Diseases) which is still considered a great source of reference in the field. He is also famous for compiling the most complete and authoritative collection of Unani medicinal formulas into one master work.\n\nHe also translated the Quran into Urdu, which is widely regarded as the first translation of the Qur'an into that language.\n\nHe was responsible for introducing aspects of European science in Unani medicine during that period, and he also composed works in Persian, as well as in Arabic, including a dictionary of Indian drugs.\n\nHe is the great-grandfather of Hakim Ajmal Khan, a renowned hakim, scholar, and politician of his time in British India.\n\nHakim Muhammad Sharif Khan died in 1807 and was buried close to the tomb of Sufi Qutbuddin Bakhtiar Kaki in Delhi, India.\n\nFor his life and writings, see:\n\n"}
{"id": "1840664", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840664", "title": "S/2004 S 13", "text": "S/2004 S 13\n\nS/2004 S 13 is a natural satellite of Saturn. Its discovery was announced by Scott S. Sheppard, David C. Jewitt, Jan Kleyna, and Brian G. Marsden on 4 May 2005 from observations taken between 12 December 2004 and 9 March 2005. \n\nS/2004 S 13 is about 6 kilometres in diameter, and orbits Saturn at an average distance of 18,056 Mm in 905.848 days, at an inclination of 167° to the ecliptic (143° to Saturn's equator), in a retrograde direction and with an eccentricity of 0.261. \n\nThis moon has not been seen since its discovery in 2004 and is currently considered lost.\n\n"}
{"id": "1840667", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840667", "title": "Djambala", "text": "Djambala\n\nDjambala is the main town of Djambala District and the Plateaux Region of the Republic of Congo. It lies north of Brazzaville and lies near the Léfini Faunal Reserve.\n\nDjambala has a tropical savanna climate (Köppen climate classification \"Aw\").\n\nIn April 2007, a deal was signed with a Korean consortium to build a railway mainly for timber traffic from the main port to Djambala.\n\nDjambala is also served by Djambala Airport.\n\n"}
{"id": "1840670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840670", "title": "Jerry Manuel", "text": "Jerry Manuel\n\nJerry Manuel (born December 23, 1953), nicknamed \"The Sage,\" is a former major league manager. He previously managed the Chicago White Sox from 1998 to 2003 and the New York Mets from the middle of 2008 to 2010 and played in the majors for parts of five seasons in the 1970s and early 1980s. He now works as an analyst for MLB Network. He is the father of fashion designer Jerry Lorenzo, founder of the streetwear label Fear of God.\n\nManuel played sparingly in the major leagues from 1975 to 1982, mostly as a second baseman. He accumulated only 127 at bats and a .150 batting average with three home runs and 13 RBIs in 96 games. Although his major league playing career was brief, Manuel was the starting second baseman for the Montréal Expos in their only postseason series victory in 1981. He was 1-for-14 (.071) in the series and was replaced by Rodney Scott in the NLCS.\n\nOther than Montréal, Manuel played for the Detroit Tigers and the San Diego Padres and ultimately retired in 1984.\n\nIn 1972, Manuel and Mike Ondina became the first pair of high school teammates to be drafted in the first round of a Major League draft. Both attended Cordova High School in Rancho Cordova, California. Manuel played just under 100 games.\n\nManuel held a variety of coaching positions over the next six years. He was originally hired by the Chicago White Sox in 1985 to scout Northern California. He left the White Sox the following year to join the Montréal Expos organization, a team with which he would remain associated for the next 11 years. In 1986, Manuel joined the Expos' Triple-A affiliate, the Indianapolis Indians of the American Association, as a player/coach. Manuel spent the next three years as the Expos' roving infield instructor (1987) and their minor league field coordinator (1988–89). In 1990, Manuel became a manager for the first time as he was named the manager of the Southern League's Jacksonville Expos, the Expos' Double-A affiliate. He led the team to an 84–60 record and was named the league's manager of the year.\n\nFollowing a successful season at Double-A, Manuel was elevated to Triple-A to manage the Indianapolis Indians for the 1991 season. Midway through the campaign, he was brought up to Montréal to serve as the third base coach for the Expos, ending a minor league managing career in which Manuel compiled a 112–82 record. He remained the Expos' third base coach through the 1996 season. In 1997, he moved on to the Florida Marlins, where he became a bench coach under Jim Leyland. The team went on to win the 1997 World Series. Days after the World Series victory, Manuel's father, Lorenzo Manuel, died. Over one month later, in December, Manuel signed a multi-year deal to manage the Chicago White Sox. Over the next six seasons, he amassed 500 wins and led the Sox to 95 in 2000 alone. In that season, Manuel guided the White Sox to a first-place finish in the American League's Central Division and was named the American League's Manager of the Year. Following the 2003 season, Manuel was replaced as White Sox manager by Ozzie Guillén.\n\nHis 2003 Topps baseball card reads:\n\"Jerry has a philosophical air about him that makes him a sage influence and respected leader on his teams. After six seasons directing the White Sox fortunes, he's risen to fourth on the franchise's managerial wins list. Formerly, he was a pro player for 15 years and 12-year coach/Minor League manager. Manuel and Ken Williams form the first African-American GM/manager tandem in MLB history.\"\n\nAfter departing the White Sox, Manuel joined the New York Mets organization in 2005 as the first base and outfield coach under new manager Willie Randolph. Manuel became Randolph's bench coach in 2006, a position he remained in until 2008.\n\nEver since he was fired by the White Sox, Manuel wanted to manage again. In February 2007, he announced a contingency plan as he was introduced as the man who would lead the formation of a baseball program at William Jessup University, an NAIA school in Rocklin, California. He said he would manage the team when it started in 2009, if he did not get another managing job.\n\nOn June 17, 2008, Willie Randolph, pitching coach Rick Peterson, and first base coach Tom Nieto were fired by the Mets. Omar Minaya announced Manuel as the interim manager, while Ken Oberkfell, Dan Warthen, and Luis Aguayo were brought up from the New Orleans Zephyrs (the then-Mets' Triple-A affiliate) to fill the remaining coaching vacancies.\n\nIn 2008, the New York Mets were unable to hold a division lead, and ultimately the Philadelphia Phillies clinched the division on September 27. The Mets were then eliminated from the National League Wild Card berth the following day when the team lost to the Florida Marlins 4–2 in the final game at Shea Stadium.\n\nOn October 3, 2008, Manuel agreed to a two-year deal to remain the Mets manager. The deal included a club option for a third year.\n\nOn October 4, 2010, the Mets announced that both Manuel and general manager Omar Minaya would not return for the 2011 season.\n\nAfter leaving Major League Baseball, Manuel went back to his home in the Sacramento area and started the Jerry Manuel Foundation to \"Educate African American young men with charter school standards and train them in the fundamentals of baseball.\"\n\nOn January 16, 2014, it was announced that Manuel would be brought on as the Director of Baseball Operations at William Jessup University in Rocklin, California.\n\n"}
{"id": "1840675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840675", "title": "Anti-romance", "text": "Anti-romance\n\nAn anti-romance, sometimes referred to as a satire, is a type of story characterized by having an apathetic or self-doubting anti-hero cast as the protagonist, who fails in the object of his journey or struggle. Most anti-romances take place in urban settings, and frequently feature insanity, depression, and the meaning of reality as major themes. An anti-romance is the antithesis of a romance.\n\nJ. D. Salinger's \"The Catcher in the Rye\" is probably the most famous and successful anti-romance, though there are many others, including Thomas Pynchon's \"The Crying of Lot 49\", \"Araby\" by James Joyce and Joseph Heller's \"Catch-22\".\n\nThe film \"\" (1994) has been considered an anti-romance.\n"}
{"id": "1840677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840677", "title": "John Eder", "text": "John Eder\n\nJohn Eder (born January 18, 1969) is an American activist and politician from Maine. Eder, a Democrat, lives in Biddeford. He is a former member of the Maine Green Independent Party, the Maine affiliate of the national Green Party. He served in the Maine House of Representatives as the legislature's first member of the Green Party for two terms and was elected in 2002 and re-elected in 2004. Until his defeat in 2006 Eder was one of only a handful of independent or third party state legislators in the country and was the highest-ranking elected Green official in the United States. Eder ran for Mayor of Portland, Maine in 2011. In 2014, Eder won a race for an at-large seat on the Portland Board of Education.\n\nIn 2018, Eder unsuccessfully sought the Democratic nomination for a seat in the Maine House of Representatives. He claimed that \"Democratic values\" moved him to join the party. Eder had previously broken from Green Party tradition and supported Democrats while maintaining his Green voter registration, including future Portland Mayor Ethan Strimling.\n\nEder, then a Green Independent, won election with 65% of the vote, defeating a Democrat. \n\nSince legislators not enrolled with a political party typically caucus with one of the two major parties, it was assumed by Maine political observers that Eder would be forced to do the same. However, he was able to secure recognition of himself as a one-member Green Party caucus in the House. He negotiated to have a dedicated staff person assigned to him, something individual legislators in the Maine House, who serve on a part-time basis, do not have. With this Eder established the first ever Green Party Minority legislative office in any state.\n\nIn his first session Eder introduced legislation to give tax incentives for the purchase of alternative fuel vehicles, a bill to create a single-payer health care system in Maine and another to limit corporate power. He passed legislation protecting schoolchildren from cancer-causing chemicals. This was the first legislation sponsored by a Green to be passed through a state legislature and signed into law in the United States.\n\nFollowing redistricting passed in 2003, Eder won re-election in 2004.\n\nIn September 2005 during the break between legislative sessions Hurricane Katrina struck New Orleans. Two weeks later Eder deployed with the Red Cross to drive a food canteen truck and provide case management to victims of the storm.\n\nEder lost the 2006 election to the Maine House by about 60 votes to Democrat Jon Hinck. Eder entered the campaign as a favorite, and many environmental, gay-rights, labor, and progressive organizations lined up behind him.\n\nA controversy erupted when Eder paid for an automated phone call to voters with a recorded message from the head of the local chapter of the National Organization for Women (NOW) endorsing Eder and questioning Hinck's position on women's rights based on Hinck's answers to NOW's candidate questionnaire. Hinck declared himself pro-choice, but he did not commit to supporting a woman's right to an abortion in every circumstance. The phone calls didn't mention that they were paid for by Eder's campaign. Hinck claimed that the call violated state elections law by failing to disclose who paid for them. A new law passed earlier that year required that an automated robocall include a \"tag\" identifying who paid for them. The commission fined Eder $100.\n\nHinck won the election with 51.5% of the vote to Eder's 48.5%\n\nEder is considered a founding father of the Green Party in Portland.\n\nEder is further credited with changing Portland's political landscape by bringing young voters in Portland into the political process and paving the way for the Greens to assume their present role as the second party of contention in Portland, Maine's largest city. Several young activists who Eder mentored have since won political office in Portland. Former Eder campaign volunteers David A. Marshall and Kevin Donoghue took seats on the Portland City Council, becoming the first registered Greens to serve on that body. In 2010, his former Legislative Aide, Ben Chipman, won a seat in the Maine Legislature.\n\nEder was the first member of a third-party to serve in the Maine Legislature since 1915 when representatives of Theodore Roosevelt's Progressive Party (United States) held legislative offices there. Eder remains the only state legislator in the country to serve a full term as a Green and to be re-elected as a Green.\n\nIn November 2008 Eder was elected to the Cumberland County Charter Commission. Eder finished second out of five declared candidates running a write-in election for two seats. Eder travels the country speaking to regular citizens about to run and win local office as a way to demystify politics and feel empowered by taking personal responsibility for their own governance.\n\nEder is a recipient of the George Mitchell Peace Scholarship. He studied at Southern Maine Community College.\n\nEder was a candidate for mayor in the 2011 Portland mayoral election. In the race Eder focused on providing living wages, affordable housing and health care for the city's working class residents. He was endorsed among the top three candidates for mayor by the League of Young Voters. Eder was also endorsed as the best choice for mayor by the \"Portland Phoenix\" on the issue of \"social services.\" The \"Phoenix\" said of Eder, \"as a campaigner who has championed the city's working poor — by advocating for living wage, affordable healthcare, and better housing options — Eder has shown that he is passionate about helping the city's neediest citizens\".\n\nUpon making its endorsements in the mayor's race, the \"Portland Daily Sun\" said, \"John Eder’s ideas surrounding affordable housing and public transportation (especially when it comes to replacing school buses with METRO passes) were apparently good enough to be incorporated by several opponents.\"\n\nEder cross-endorsed fellow candidate, former legislative colleague and prominent Democrat Ethan Strimling, a first such cross-endorsement in the Portland mayoral race, which used instant-runoff voting for the first time in Maine. This led the Maine Green Independent Party, which had donated to Eder's campaign, to endorse the other Green in the race, City Councilor David Marshall.\n\nEder served a term on the Portland Board of Education during which time he chaired the committee to oversee the transition plan to have Greater Portland METRO buses transport Portland Public Schools’ high school students to and from school. In addition, Eder advocated for the renovation of the districts elementary schools. Eder did not seek re-election. \n\nIn January 2018, Eder announced his bid for the Democratic nomination for District 12 of the Maine House of Representatives. He was subsequently defeated in the June primary by Victoria Foley. In February 2020, the Bangor Daily News published a letter to the editor by Eder in which he advocated the repeal of a law which eliminated most exemptions from state child vaccination requirements, including religious exemptions.\n"}
{"id": "1840678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840678", "title": "Diosso", "text": "Diosso\n\nDiosso is a town in the Republic of Congo, lying about 25 kilometres north of Pointe-Noire in the Kouilou Department along National Highway 5. It was the capital of the Loango Kingdom and is home to its rulers' mausoleum. Roman Catholic missionaries were active in Diosso, which had a royal palace.\n\nErosion in the area has created the nearby Diosso Gorge, known as the \"Grand Canyon of the Congo\". It has also been called the Diosso Amphitheater. Within the gorge's rainforest, there are rock ridges and distinctive red rock cliffs, which can reach up to in height. \"The New York Times\" described Diosso Gorge as \"a stunning gorge of plunging, pink cliffs draped with green Central African jungle.\" According to reports, Gamissamy Issanga, the director of environment at the Congo's research ministry, once approved the dumping of 1 million tonnes of oil, acids and solvents in the gorge. The gorge is said to be inhabited by the female spirit of Mboma, who takes the form of a snake.\n\nThe Tchimpounga Chimpanzee Rehabilitation Center (formerly the Tchimpounga Chimpanzee Sanctuary), established in 1992 to protect orphaned chimpanzees, is nearby.\nBuilt by the Conoco petroleum company for JGI, Tchimpounga is reputedly the largest chimpanzee sanctuary on the African continent, treating some 125 apes.\n\nFounded in 1982, the ethnography and history of the Loango Kingdom is displayed in the Mâ-Loango Regional Museum, located in Diosso. The museum is a public institution and, as a regional branch, was founded with the aim of protecting cultural heritage. It collects and exhibits objects that are of historical, archaeological, ethnographic and artistic significance, and is situated in a palace that was inhabited by Ma Moe Loango Poaty III, king (1931-1975) of the kingdom of Loango. The museum is long by wide and contains rooms, hallways, bedrooms, and the king's bathroom. All these rooms have either been transformed into exhibition rooms or are in reserve.\n\nThere are over 300 exhibits and documents, as well as a dozen different collections, illustrating historical events and documents that show the evolution of Congolese society. Objects of great artistic value are displayed alongside simpler objects relating to everyday life that are considered important in the study of ancient Congolese people. Traditional work tools include hoes, axes, knives, wooden bellows, gourds, and adzes. Jewelry and traditional clothing include loincloths, headdresses, and the Tchikumbi costume. Domestic items are characterized by a rush mat, as well as straw and kitchen utensils. Weapons and traps include spears, knives, crossbows, hunting wooden bells, hunting wicker traps, and nets. Traditional objects of worship include stone statuettes, Punu mask, the Kidumu mask, as well as the Kebe Kebe and Mboumba figurines. Traditional musical instruments are the Yombe and Dondo.\n\nThe town's golf club overlooks the coast.\nhttps://web.archive.org/web/20160410060229/https://sites.google.com/site/diossogolfclub/\n"}
{"id": "1840680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840680", "title": "Bomassa", "text": "Bomassa\n\nBomassa is a town in the northern Republic of Congo, lying on the Sanga River and the border with the Central African Republic. It is known for its local rainforests, home to a wide variety of large mammals. There have been repeated calls for its immediate area to be designated a national park. \n"}
{"id": "1840684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840684", "title": "Bebhionn (moon)", "text": "Bebhionn (moon)\n\nBebhionn (pronounced or ), also known as Saturn XXXVII, is a small, irregular natural satellite of Saturn. Its discovery was announced by Scott S. Sheppard, David C. Jewitt, Jan Kleyna, and Brian G. Marsden on 4 May 2005 from observations taken between 12 December 2004 and 9 March 2005.\n\nBebhionn is about 6 kilometres in diameter and orbits Saturn at an average distance of 16,898 Mm in 820.130 days at an inclination of 41° to the ecliptic (18° to Saturn's equator) and with an eccentricity of 0.333. The rotation period of Bebhionn was measured at hours by the ISS camera of the Cassini spacecraft. \n\nThe moon was named in April 2007 after Béibhinn (Béḃinn), an early Irish goddess of birth, who was renowned for her beauty. In Irish, Béibhinn/Béḃinn is pronounced (southern accents, English approximation ) or (northern accents, English approximation ). The spelling \"bh\" (older \"ḃ\") indicates that the second consonant is softened to a 'v' sound. The extra \"o\" in the unusual spelling 'Bebhionn' suggests that the final \"nn\" should be broad , but is not itself pronounced. The name is still pronounced as a compound (and thus sometimes spelled 'Bé Binn' etc.), so the unstressed vowel is not reduced to a schwa.\n\n"}
{"id": "1840685", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840685", "title": "Danny Darwin", "text": "Danny Darwin\n\nDanny Wayne Darwin (born October 25, 1955), known as the \"Bonham Bullet\" and \"Dr. Death\", is an American professional baseball pitcher and coach, who played in Major League Baseball (MLB) for the Texas Rangers, Milwaukee Brewers, Houston Astros, Boston Red Sox, Toronto Blue Jays, Pittsburgh Pirates, Chicago White Sox, and San Francisco Giants, from through . Over his MLB career, he amassed 171 wins and 182 losses, with a 3.84 earned run average (ERA).\n\nDanny attended Bonham High School and Grayson County College. He signed as an undrafted free agent with the Texas Rangers on May 10, 1976. He began his professional career with the Asheville Tourists in Single-A in 1976. He pitched for the Double-A Tulsa Drillers in 1977 and the Triple-A Tucson Toros in 1978. With Tulsa, he was 13-4, 2.41 ERA in 23 starts with six complete games and four shutouts.\n\nHe made his major league debut with the Rangers on September 8, 1978. He pitched two innings of relief in an 11-4 loss against the Oakland Athletics, giving up one run and two hits. On September 24 of the same year, he made his first major league start against the Seattle Mariners. He pitched six innings, giving up eight hits, striking out seven, and allowing only one walk to record his first victory.\n\nDarwin did not become a full-time starter until 1981, a strike-shortened season. He made 22 starts that year, carving out a 9-9 record with a 3.64 ERA.\n\nHe pitched almost exclusively out of the bullpen in 1982, but returned to the Texas rotation the following year. He was traded to the Milwaukee Brewers on January 18, 1985 as part of a four-team deal with the Royals and Mets. He made 29 starts for Milwaukee during the 1985 campaign, posting a record of 8-18.\n\nHe was traded during the 1986 season to the Houston Astros for Mark Knudson and Don August. He remained with Houston through 1990, gradually being switched from a starting pitcher to a reliever by his last years with the Astros. In his final season in Houston, he was 11-4, 2.21 era in 48 games (17 starts) to win the National League ERA title.\n\nHe signed with the Boston Red Sox as a free agent after the season and pitched with them for four seasons, both as a starter and a reliever.\n\nAfter leaving the Red Sox, he had a shaky season in 1995, starting with the Toronto Blue Jays, but being cut midway through the season (with a 1-8 record and 7.62 era) and signing with the Texas Rangers again.\n\nHis return to Texas was short lived as he spent the last three years of his career bouncing around between teams. He signed with the Pittsburgh Pirates in 1996, who traded him back to the Astros at mid-season (for Rich Loiselle). Then he signed with the Chicago White Sox in 1997, only to be dealt at the trading deadline to the San Francisco Giants as part of a multi-player deal that sent Wilson Álvarez and Roberto Hernández to the Giants and Keith Foulke, Bob Howry, Lorenzo Barceló, Mike Caruso, Ken Vining, and Brian Manning to the White Sox in what became known as the White Flag Trade. He finished his career in 1998, pitching 1/3 of an inning for the Giants in his final appearance against the Pirates.\n\nDanny's younger brother, Jeff Darwin (born 1969), also had a professional baseball career that lasted eleven years. Jeff, who also graduated from Bonham High School, spent parts of three seasons in the majors, including 1996–1997 with the Chicago White Sox. Both Danny & Jeff were in the White Sox organization in 1997 but Danny was traded on July 31 and Jeff was not called up from the Minors until August 17. In 1998 again they were both with the Giants but Jeff spent the year at AAA and was not called up.\n\nDarwin is the sponsor of the \"Danny Darwin Celebrity Open Golf Tournament\" at North Central Texas College.\n\nHe was the pitching coach for the Jacksonville Suns in the Double-A Southern League from 2006–2007 and the pitching coach of the Class-A Great Lakes Loons from 2008–2009 before joining Chattanooga for 2010.\n\nIn April 2018, Darwin became interim pitching coach for the Cincinnati Reds, promoted from Double-A Pensacola Blue Wahoos, where he was pitching coach for three seasons.\n\nIn January 2019, Darwin was named the pitching coach for the Reds' Double-A affiliate, the Chattanooga Lookouts.\n\nDuring a brawl between the Phillies and the Giants, Orel Hershiser claims Darwin punched him in the face. At the time, the two were teammates. Hershiser claimed it was retribution for Hershiser hitting Darwin back when he was pitching against him.\n\nDuring a game while playing with the Giants, Darwin and Barry Bonds got into a heated argument when Bonds lazily fielded a hit that became an RBI.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1840692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840692", "title": "Mbinda", "text": "Mbinda\n\nMbinda is a town in the Republic of Congo, lying on the border with Gabon. It is a transport hub and lies at the end of a railway line to Brazzaville.\n\nThe town prospered as the southern end of the 75 km COMILOG Cableway from Moanda in Gabon, exporting manganese via Brazzaville, but this closed in 1986 when the Trans-Gabon Railway was completed. However, a rail link from Franceville to Brazzaville, probably via the town, is regularly proposed.\n\n"}
{"id": "1840695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840695", "title": "Makoua", "text": "Makoua\n\nMakoua is a town in the Republic of the Congo, lying at the southern edge of the rainforest, north of Owando. It is home to an airport. It lies on the equator.\n"}
{"id": "1840698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840698", "title": "KFWD", "text": "KFWD\n\nKFWD, virtual channel 52 (VHF digital channel 9), is an independent television station licensed to Fort Worth, Texas, United States and serving the Dallas–Fort Worth Metroplex. The station is owned by WRNN-TV Associates. KFWD's offices are located in Coppell, and its transmitter is located south of Belt Line Road in Cedar Hill. On cable, the station is available on channel 14 through Frontier FiOS and most Charter Spectrum systems in North Texas; it is also carried on AT&T U-Verse, DirecTV and Dish Network channel 52.\n\nThe station first signed on the air on September 1, 1988; it first operated as the Dallas–Fort Worth market's original affiliate of the Spanish-language network Telemundo. The KFWD call letters were previously used by a local radio station on 102.1 FM (now KDGE). For much of its history with the network, KFWD signed off the air during the overnight hours each night; as a result, the station did not carry the entire Telemundo network schedule, whose overnight lineup (as is the case to this day) consisted of infomercials produced and dubbed in Spanish as well as feature films from countries with a predominant population of Spanish speakers such as Mexico. The station began broadcasting 24 hours a day in late 2000.\n\nKFWD lost its affiliation with the network when NBC, which had recently acquired Telemundo, bought independent station KXTX-TV (channel 39) from the Christian Broadcasting Network in 2001. During KFWD's final month as a Telemundo affiliate, the station aired English-language infomercials during the morning and overnight hours.\n\nOn January 1, 2002, KFWD became an English-language general entertainment independent station. It acquired syndicated programs displaced by both KXTX and KSTR-TV (channel 49) when both stations affiliated with Spanish-language networks on that date—KXTX having joined Telemundo, while KSTR joined TeleFutura (including programs such as \"Real TV\" and \"Access Hollywood\"). The station also began carrying live sporting events including the Big 12 Men's Basketball Tournament, as well as FC Dallas and Dallas Sidekicks soccer games that were dropped from KLDT (channel 55, now Azteca América affiliate KAZD).\n\nBelo Corporation began managing the station in 2006, providing advertising sales assistance, certain technical services and facilities to support the operations of KFWD; Belo's flagship ABC affiliate WFAA (channel 8, now owned by Tegna) also supplied the station with repurposed editions of its newscasts (consisting of simulcasts of its Monday–Saturday 6:00 p.m., Sunday–Friday 10:00 p.m. and Sunday 5:30 p.m. newscasts) and other programs seen on that station (such as \"The Dr. Oz Show\"). Belo also operated KFWD.tv, the station's website, using a website platform similar to that used by Belo's other stations. The management agreement included an option to purchase KFWD and create a duopoly with WFAA; this option was never exercised.\n\nKFWD has been digital-only since June 12, 2009.\n\nOn October 17, 2011, KFWD changed its programming format, placing a strong emphasis on classic television series. The new \"Classic TV\" logo and branding was first unveiled on the station's YouTube channel on August 3, 2011, and later on KFWD's Facebook page on October 7. It was then rolled out to the station's website one month later.\n\nOn June 11, 2012, HIC Broadcast, Inc. announced that KFWD would revert to a Spanish-language format as a charter affiliate of MundoFox (a joint venture between Fox International Channels and RCN Television); it switched to the network when MundoFox \"soft launched\" on select affiliates on August 1, 2012 at 6 a.m. local time (the network's formal launch date was on August 13). As a result, Belo terminated its management agreement with HIC Broadcast, Inc. to operate KFWD. The last program to air on KFWD as an English-language independent was \"The Shepherd's Chapel\" at 5:00 a.m. on August 1 (despite being an English-language program, \"The Shepherd's Chapel\" returned to KFWD's schedule one month later). There was no formal on-air announcement of the programming change, except for a message posted on KFWD's Facebook page reading \"it has been a pleasure\".\nMany of the programs formerly seen on KFWD during its classic television format now air on MeTV (whose original local affiliate KTXD-TV (channel 47), joined the network shortly before KFWD's format change; KTXD continues to carry some of these programs as an independent station whereas KTXA's second digital subchannel recovered the MeTV affiliation), and on Antenna TV (which is affiliated with the second digital subchannel of CW affiliate KDAF (channel 33)).\n\nOn June 27, 2015; MundoFox has been rebranded as MundoMax after 21st Century Fox sold its stake in the network to RCN, giving it full ownership. The full name change and logo overhaul occurred August 13, which coincided with the network's third anniversary.\n\nOn October 26, 2015, HIC Broadcast, Inc. filed an application to sell KFWD to NRJ TV DFW License Co., LLC, a subsidiary of NRJ Holdings LLC. Sale was approved by the FCC on December 15, 2015 and completed on January 8, 2016. On September 1, 2016, KFWD switched to being an affiliate of the Sonlife Broadcasting Network at approximately 12:00 a.m. CT. Like the previous transition, there was no announcement of the programming change, except on SonLife's website. In fact, around the time of the affiliation switchover, KFWD was just starting to run an infomercial at its scheduled time. After a few seconds, the abrupt change from MundoMax to Sonlife began, months before MundoMax went off the air on November 30.\n\nThere had been rumors that KFWD would be sold by NRJ in a spectrum auction.\n\nOn December 9, 2019, it was announced that WRNN-TV Associates, owner of New York City-based WRNN-TV, secured a deal to purchase seven full-power TV stations (including KFWD) and one Class A station from NRJ. The sale was approved by the FCC on January 23, and was completed on February 4, 2020.\n\nFrom February 1 until February 4, 2020, WRNN-TV Associates operated KFWD under a short-term local marketing agreement (LMA) while it awaited full consummation of its purchase. KFWD dropped its affiliation with the Sonlife Broadcasting Network, and began airing WRNN-TV's independent network RNN on its primary channel. RNN's schedule consists primarily of infomercials, with occasional religious, E/I, and news/talk (\"Richard French Live\") programs.\n\nLater, KFWD reinstated the Sonlife Broadcasting Network affiliation on subchannel 52.3.\n\nThe station's digital signal is multiplexed:\nPrior to becoming a MundoFox affiliate, KFWD carried a standard definition simulcast of its main channel on digital subchannel 52.2.\n\nKFWD began transmitting a digital television signal in standard definition on UHF channel 51 on May 1, 2002, five months after it converted into an independent station. After KFWD shut down its analog signal on June 12, 2009, its digital signal moved to VHF channel 9, formerly WFAA's digital channel spot.\n\n"}
{"id": "1840701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840701", "title": "Al Shabab Al Arabi Club Dubai", "text": "Al Shabab Al Arabi Club Dubai\n\nAl Shabab Al Arabi Club (), or simply Al Shabab, was a football and basketball club based in Dubai, in the United Arab Emirates, that played in the UAE Arabian Gulf League. The club was founded in 1958.\n\nIn 2017 the club merged with Dubai CSC to join Al Ahli Dubai F.C., which rebranded into Shabab Al-Ahli Dubai FC.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1840703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840703", "title": "The House of Love", "text": "The House of Love\n\nThe House of Love are an English alternative rock band, formed in London in 1986 by singer-songwriter-guitarist Guy Chadwick and co-founder and lead guitarist Terry Bickers. They rose to prominence in 1987 with their first single \"Shine On\", released on the independent label Creation. The following year, the band released their critically acclaimed eponymous debut album and built their reputation over the next few years through subsequent releases, constant touring and the support of English press. They signed with Fontana Records in 1989 and met commercial success in 1990 with their second self-titled album, which peaked at number 8 in the UK albums chart. Their third album, \"Babe Rainbow\", was favourably met by the critics in 1992 and also reached the top 40 in the UK.\n\nThe House of Love are best known for their detailed psychedelic guitar sound and for other singles such as \"Christine\" and \"Destroy the Heart\". In the US, the songs \"I Don't Know Why I Love You\", \"Marble\" and \"You Don't Understand\" were also popular on alternative rock radio stations, respectively reaching number two, number five and number nine on the \"Billboard\" Modern Rock chart. The House of Love disbanded in 1993. After a hiatus of 10 years, they reformed in 2003 with Bickers, who had performed on their two first albums. They have been cited as an influence by shoegazing bands Slowdive and Ride.\n\nThe House of Love were formed in 1986 in Camberwell, London by former Kingdoms singer and guitarist Guy Chadwick: he had been inspired to start a new band after seeing the Jesus and Mary Chain in concert at London's Electric Ballroom. He wrote a new song called \"Christine\", which gave him ideas for further progress: \"The idea of the sound of the group and what kind of musicians to look for... female vocals... a good take on the Velvets' sonics... and of course the image.\" Chadwick teamed up with an old friend – drummer Pete Evans – and recruited the rest of the initial House of Love lineup via an advert in \"Melody Maker\". This brought together an international band of London-born lead guitarist Terry Bickers (ex-Colenso Parade), German rhythm guitarist/co-singer Andrea Heukamp and bass player Chris Groothuizen (from New Zealand). Chadwick opted to name his new band The House of Love after Anaïs Nin's book \"A Spy in the House of Love\". There was a considerable age differential in the band: Chadwick, by now aged 30, was nearly ten years older than Terry Bickers.\n\nSigning to Creation Records, The House of Love released their debut single \"Shine On\" in May 1987 and toured with Felt and Zodiac Mindwarp. During the latter half of 1987, the band continued to tour: a third on the bill placing at a concert at the Town & Country Club was widely acclaimed in the press and convinced Creation Records to make them record, \"Christine\" – which would not be released as a single before mid-1988. \"Christine\" was also the last of the band's recordings to feature Andrea Heukamp as a full member: having become tired of touring, she quit the band at the end of 1987.\n\nAlthough the split was amicable, Chadwick would later comment \"Losing Andrea Heukamp was a massive, massive blow for me: I loved her voice and I loved her playing, she was easily as important as Pete, Terry or Chris.\" Heukamp appeared in the group shot used for the cover of the band's first long-form release – a 1987 Germany-only compilation of the early recordings, eight songs all of which she had played on. This record was untitled apart from the band name and was consequently just known as \"The House of Love\" or informally as \"The German Album\". Heukamp's split from The House of Love would not be absolute, as she would return as a studio guest on some of the band's subsequent albums.\n\nFollowing Heukamp's departure, The House of Love began working on their debut album. The recording sessions were completed in just over a week, but the mixing sessions – allegedly fuelled by copious use of LSD – proved more problematic, with producer Pat Collier dealing with the final mix after disagreements within the band. The album was preceded by the release of \"Christine\" as a single in May 1988, which reached No. 1 in the independent charts. Later in May, the debut album was released. As with \"The German Album\", the album lacked a formal title anywhere on the sleeve, and therefore became generally known as \"The House of Love\". A stand-alone single, \"Destroy The Heart\", was eventually voted single of the year in DJ John Peel's Festive Fifty.\n\nFollowing the success of the first album which topped the indie charts in Europe, the band opted to sign to Fontana Records (and Polygram in the US), with Creation label head Alan McGee continuing for a while as manager. Ominously, by this time the band's drug use had begun to escalate even further, as had internal problems with egos and dissension.\n\nThe first House of Love release on the Fontana label was the single \"Never\", which was issued against the band's wishes, and stalled just outside the Top 40. During summer 1989, The House of Love played a week-long residency at the I.C.A in London, varying their sets and featuring support bands as diverse as Pere Ubu, Stone Roses and the Rainbirds.\n\nThe recording and mixing of the band's next album (and first for Fontana) was beset with problems. The band members were distracted by hedonism, ego and indecision, going through four different producers and multiple studios. The stress of Fontana's commercial expectations were also playing a part. In 2005, Chadwick recollected that \"the guy who signed us \"(Dave Bates)\" had signed Def Leppard and Tears for Fears so he had a lot of clout. He insisted on putting us together with producers who were quite obviously wrong for us. He was completely uninterested in anything that didn't have a huge chorus in it. He wanted hits, basically. He also ordered a load of remixes that we hadn't authorised and we absolutely loathed.\"\n\nMuch later, Chadwick was to regard signing with Fontana as the worst mistake in the band's career. At the time, Terry Bickers was of this opinion already. Having always been unhappy with the implications of the Fontana deal, and now feeling justified in his fears, he began to retreat into anxiety and drugs, eventually succumbing to manic depression. By this time, Chadwick's own responsibilities and external pressures – fuelled by his growing drug and alcohol habit – would turn him into what he would later described as \"\"(a)\" monster. A nice monster, sometimes, but a monster none the less.\" Before much longer, Chadwick and Bickers were no longer talking to each other.\n\nThe next House of Love single, \"I Don't Know Why I Love You\", was released in November 1989 but stalled at number 41 in the charts despite being Radio 1's Single of the Week. A sixty-plus date UK tour was set for the end of the year, with an important press covering and public attention, but this would prove to be the last straw for the band's initial lineup. In 2005 Bickers recollected \"After our first album it was manic. A classic case of too much too soon. We needed a break... We had spent eighteen months in the studio recording our second album. Everything we produced got rejected and we were at the end of our ropes. Then as soon as we got the last track down they said 'Right, now off you go on tour'. It was a recipe for disaster.\"\n\nDuring the tour, the increasingly difficult relationship between Chadwick and Bickers worsened and Bickers was abruptly sacked mid-tour. At one day's notice, Simon Walker was recruited directly from My White Bedroom and The Dave Howard Singers as replacement lead guitarist. He made his debut at the band's concert at Portsmouth Polytechnic on 4 December 1989.\n\nInitially, the band claimed that Bickers was taking a break due to exhaustion. It soon became clear that the break was permanent, having followed a notorious incident inside the House of Love's tour van when Bickers had begun chanting \"Breadhead!\" at Chadwick while setting fire to the band's money in a protest against what he saw as the band's increasing commercialisation and materialism. Looking back on the incident two years later, Bickers confessed \"That was frustration. I just found at the time that I didn't have the same aspirations as the rest of the band. I was more into exploring music than exploring the exploitation of markets around the globe. They were really into crusading. And winning. I wasn't.\"\n\nBickers would go on to form the psychedelic rock band Levitation and for some time, he and Chadwick would continue to spar via the music press. At one point, Chadwick claimed that despite Bickers' stellar reputation as a player it was in fact he himself who had played \"90 per cent\" of the guitars on the band's recordings (a claim that he later withdrew). Bickers in turn described Chadwick as \"a megalomaniac.\" In spite of the feud, over a decade later Chadwick would confess that he had soon come to want Bickers to return to The House of Love but had failed to actually communicate this to Bickers himself.\n\nThe House of Love's \"second album\" (also untitled, but generally known as either \"House of Love\", the \"Butterfly\" album, or simply \"Fontana\") was released in January 1990; it reached the top ten in the UK Albums Chart and peaked at N°148 in the Billboard Top 200, staying in the US chart for 8 weeks. It sold worldwide over 400,000 copies. \"I Don't Know Why I Love You\" was heavily played on US alternative rock radios: it reached number 2 on the Modern Rock Tracks chart in March. In the UK, the album had been preceded by a newly recorded version of the band's first single, \"Shine On\": released in seven different formats, the song saw them break into the top 20.\n\nThe House of Love continued and completed their tour with Simon Walker now firmly settled in as guitarist. The last date of the tour was a sold-out concert at the Royal Albert Hall. This was the band's commercial peak. A fourth single from the \"Fontana\" album – \"The Beatles and the Stones\" – reached the top 40 of the singles chart in March 1990. The House of Love continued to tour in both America and Europe, with former member Andrea Heukamp returning to the band later in the year to add backing vocals.\n\nA second compilation album called \"A Spy in the House of Love\" was released in late 1990, consisting of older scrapped material and a sampling of the band's large backlog of b-sides. A stopgap measure to keep up the band's momentum, it failed to match the sales of \"Fontana\" (although a promo single, \"Marble\", reached number 5 in the U.S. Modern Rock charts).\n\nIn early 1991, they undertook a 20 date French tour which peaked at the Olympia in Paris; the concert was broadcast live in prime time on radio France Inter. On 31 August, they decided to perform three London concerts on the same night – the first at the University of London Union in Bloomsbury, the second at the Town & Country Club in Kentish Town and the third at The Boston Arms in Tufnell Park. Despite the publicity stunt nature of the evening, the band received good reviews and it was considered that their challenge had paid off. Evans, Walker and Groothuizen then took advantage of the time off to return to My White Bedroom, which released its lone album after two years of delay.\n\nThe delay proved costly for The House of Love, as it ensured that the band lost momentum. It also coincided with the rise of grunge in the United States and the arrival of The Stone Roses on the British music scene, both of which rapidly consumed the attention of the British music press and rock reviewers. In October 1991, The House of Love returned with a new single \"The Girl With the Loneliest Eyes\". Although this was hailed in the press as another piece of beautiful pop by the band, it failed to chart (amid accusations of record company distribution incompetence). Also that year, the band contributed a cover of \"Who by Fire\" to the Leonard Cohen tribute album \"I'm Your Fan\".\n\nFollow-up recording sessions for their third album were scheduled over a period of six months: former member Andrea Heukamp guested on the studio sessions to add extra guitar and backing vocals. Two other singles followed: \"Feel\" released in April 1992 and \"You Don't Understand\" which preceded \"Babe Rainbow\". Simon Walker left the group over musical differences at that time and was replaced as guitarist by former Woodentops member Simon Mawby.\n\nReleased in July, \"Babe Rainbow\" was a critical success in the UK, but only sold respectably (peaking at number 34 on the UK Album Chart). In the US, \"You Don't Understand\" became a hit on the alternative radio, reaching number 9 on the \"Billboard\" Modern Rock chart.\n\nDuring 1992, the band attempted to reverse their fortunes with more hard touring (travelling as part of a triple bill with Ocean Colour Scene and Catherine Wheel, but while the band were still greeted with respect this did not translate into the desired sales. Simon Mawby left the band at the end of the year, once again leaving Chadwick without a lead guitar foil. A fourth single taken from the album, \"Crush Me\", was the band's lowest-placing single release on Fontana, peaking at number 67 in the UK.\n\nThe House of Love began work on their fourth album in January 1993. In contrast to previous efforts it was recorded in under two weeks, with Chadwick playing all of the guitar parts and with Groothuizen and Evans contributing (for the first time) to songwriting. As with \"Babe Rainbow\", Andrea Heukamp made a guest appearance (this time, only on backing vocals). The band laid plans to record their fifth album later in the year, following a tour of France. However, on their return to London Pete Evans announced to the band that he wanted to retire from the music business.\n\nUncertain of how to proceed, The House of Love kept Evans' departure under wraps while Chadwick concentrated on promoting the new album, \"Audience with the Mind\", by himself. The album was released in June 1993 and scraped into the top 40 of the album chart, only remaining in the chart for one week. It showed no sign of reversing the band's commercial decline and no singles from the album were released. Without a drummer, with a group reduced to only two members and a vanishing commercial profile, Chadwick admitted defeat later in the year and disbanded The House of Love. \n\nBy his own admission, some years after the event, Chadwick took the split of The House of Love very badly and succumbed to depression – \"It was very hard to get out of bed. I was ill. After the group finished it was such a huge awakening. I just cracked up, and couldn't function for years.\" Ironically, Chadwick's battles with depression enabled him to better understand why Terry Bickers had left the band, and would eventually lead to a reconciliation between the two. Despite his difficulties, he would make several further attempts at a musical career, going on to form The Madonnas in 1994 (splitting the band in 1995) and subsequently the similarly short-lived, Belgium-based Eyedreams in 1996. Neither bands would release any records. He resurfaced as a solo artist in 1997, releasing one album, 1998's \"Lazy Soft and Slow\" produced by Cocteau Twins' Robin Guthrie.\nDespite Evans' claims of having retired from music, both he and Chris Groothuizen continued for three more years with My White Bedroom. Groothuizen would subsequently coproduce and engineer the debut album for British chansonnier Simon Warner in 1996 before taking on a new career as an architect and lecturer. From 1994 onwards, Evans began an ongoing collaboration as producer and musician with teenaged singer-songwriter Cat Goscovitch. He contributing heavily to her projects Billy Rain (1994) and Nut (1996) as drummer, guitarist and co-songwriter, and returned as one of her key collaborators in 2010.\n\nTerry Bickers stayed with Levitation for two albums before acrimoniously quitting the band onstage in 1993. He went on to form another short-lived space rock band, Cradle, and was involved briefly in other projects during the late 1990s, but never returned to the prominence or consistent work he had enjoyed with The House of Love and Levitation. In the early 2000s, he re-established contact with Guy Chadwick.\n\nVarious re-releases and compilations kept the band in the public eye, including 1998's \"Best of The House of Love\" and 2000's \"The John Peel Sessions 88–89\". In 2001, PLR reissued the entire set of recordings which the band had made during their most critically acclaimed period (on Creation Records) with the release of \"1986–88: The Creation Recordings\". In 2004, \"The Fontana Years\" was released, covering the turbulent period of the second album.\n\nIn 2003, the reconciled Chadwick and Bickers reformed the House of Love at the urging of former agent Mick Griffiths. The duo also re-recruited Pete Evans as drummer. Although Chris Groothuizen was invited to rejoin and thus reform the \"classic\" band lineup, he amicably refused, opting instead to remain in his architectural career. His place as bass guitarist was taken by Matt Jury. In 2005, the band went on to tour throughout the UK, Ireland and Sweden, and released a comeback album – \"Days Run Away\" – on the Art & Industry label, to some praise.\n\nBickers and Chadwick seemed confident that age, perspective and situation meant that they could avoid the problems which had divided the band in 1990. Interviewed at the time of the release of \"Days Run Away\", Chadwick admitted acceptance of the fact that \"we're really different people. It's a very complex kind of friendship, and I think it'll always be slightly fractious. We don't have this huge buddy thing going on though at the same time it's very intimate... We've always had a very instinctive way of communicating with each other, which I guess is why we make good music together.\" Bickers in turn reflected \"I think we're both old enough and ugly enough to address any issues head-on and keep our tempers in check. We're also doing things at our own pace rather than letting a record company dictate what we do, which helps... It's still early days but communication is good and so is the music. This is about letting bygones be bygones and just getting on with it. Personally, I've never been happier.\"\n\n\"The House of Love\" (the band's 1988 debut album) was reissued on CD in 2007. This led to the band being invited to play the album live in its entirety as part of the Don't Look Back concert series. In 2009, \"Live at the BBC\" featured selections from the band's post-Bickers in concert recordings from 1990 to 1992. In November 2012, Cherry Red announced the release of a 3-CD deluxe edition of their debut self-titled album, adding all the remaining Creation recordings and a whole disc of unissued demos and alternative versions.\n\nIn December 2012, The House of Love Official Facebook page confirmed that the band had recently completed a new studio album. The album was recorded with original members Chadwick, Bickers, Evans accompanied by bassist Matt Jury. In early 2013 the title was revealed as \"She Paints Words in Red\"; it was released in March by Cherry Red Records. The band kept touring the following years.\n\nIn 2018 to celebrate the 30th anniversary of their debut album, the band embarked on a six date British tour in autumn, peaking with a headline show at the Roundhouse in London in November: they played the album in full.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1840706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840706", "title": "Louis Witten", "text": "Louis Witten\n\nLouis Witten (born April 13, 1921) is an American theoretical physicist and the father of Edward Witten.\n\nWitten's research has centered on classical gravitation, including the discovery of certain exact electrovacuum solutions to the Einstein field equation. He edited a review (see citation below) which contains papers by contributors such as ADM (Arnowitt, Deser, and Misner), Choquet-Bruhat, Ehlers and Kundt, Goldberg, and Pirani which are used by researchers after the passage of more than 40 years.\n\nLouis Witten was born to a Jewish family in Baltimore, Maryland. His parents, Abraham Witten and Bessie Perman, emigrated to the United States from Eastern Europe as teenagers in 1909 and were married in 1916. Witten graduated as a Civil Engineer from The Johns Hopkins University in 1941. From 1942 to 1946 he served in the US Army Air Forces as a Radar Weather Officer.\n\nHe was a graduate student in physics at The Johns Hopkins University from 1948 to 1951 when he received the PhD degree. His dissertation, in statistical mechanics, was entitled \"A Model of an Imperfect Gas\". His thesis advisor was Theodore H. Berlin. In 1949 he married Lorraine Wollach of Baltimore. They had four children, Edward, Celia, Matthew, and Jesse. Lorraine died in 1987. In 1992 he married Frances Lydia DeLange.\n\nAfter postdoctoral study at Princeton University, the University of Maryland, and the Lincoln Laboratory of MIT, Witten joined RIAS, the research laboratory of the Martin Marietta Corporation. In 1968 he became a Professor of Physics at the University of Cincinnati where he remained until his retirement in 1991. He is also emeritus at the University of Florida. Since 1968 he has been a Vice-President and Director of Science Affairs of the Gravity Research Foundation.\n\nHe participated in a conference held at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill from January 18–23, 1957 \"to discuss the role of gravitation in physics\".\n"}
{"id": "1840713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840713", "title": "Loufoulakari Falls", "text": "Loufoulakari Falls\n\nThe Loufoulakari Falls () lie 80 km south west of Brazzaville in the Republic of the Congo at the confluence of the Loufoulakari River and the Congo River.\n"}
{"id": "1840718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840718", "title": "Tabitha Babbitt", "text": "Tabitha Babbitt\n\nSarah \"Tabitha\" Babbitt (December 9, 1779 – December 10, 1853) was an early American Shaker purported to be a tool maker and inventor. Inventions credited to her by the Shakers include the circular saw, the spinning wheel head, and false teeth. She was a member of the Harvard Shaker community.\n\nBabbitt was born in Hardwick, Massachusetts, the daughter of Seth and Elizabeth Babbitt. On August 12, 1793, she became a member of the Shakers at the Harvard Shaker community in Massachusetts. In December 1853, Babbitt died in Harvard, Massachusetts.\n\nBabbitt is credited with inventing the first circular saw for use in a saw mill in 1813. According to the Shakers, Babbitt was watching men use the difficult two-man whipsaw when she noticed that half of their motion was wasted. She proposed creating a round blade to increase efficiency. The circular saw was connected to a water-powered machine to reduce the effort to cut lumber. The first circular saw she allegedly made is in Albany, New York. In the summer of 1948, a version of Babbitt's saw, built to her specifications, was on display at a Shaker exhibit at Fenimore House in Cooperstown, N. Y., as a loan from the New York State Museum. \n\nBabbitt is also credited with inventing a process for the manufacture of false teeth and an improved spinning wheel head. She also allegedly invented cut nails, although the Shakers also credit the invention to the non-Shaker, Eli Whitney. As a Shaker, Babbitt never patented any of her inventions.\n\nBecause Babbitt did not patent her circular saw and the reference to her invention exists only in Shaker lore, there is controversy over whether she was the true first inventor of the saw. According to some accounts, two French men patented the circular saw in the United States after reading about Babbitt's saw in Shaker papers. M. Stephen Miller argues that Babbitt was not the first inventor of the circular saw, based upon the date that she joined the sect. He contends that the circular saw was invented at Mount Lebanon Shaker Village by Amos Bishop or Benjamin Bruce in 1793 —or not by a Shaker at all.\n\n"}
{"id": "1840719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840719", "title": "Lara Spencer", "text": "Lara Spencer\n\nLara Christine Von Seelen (known professionally as Lara Spencer) (born June 19, 1969) is an American television presenter. She is best known for being the co-anchor for ABC's \"Good Morning America\". She is also a correspondent for \"Nightline\" and ABC News. Previously, she was the host of the syndicated entertainment newsmagazine \"The Insider\" from 2004 to 2011, and was a regular contributor to CBS's \"The Early Show\". Before then, she was the national correspondent for \"Good Morning America\" and spent several years as a lifestyle reporter for WABC-TV. She also hosted \"Antiques Roadshow\" on PBS for the 2004 and 2005 seasons, and \"Antiques Roadshow FYI\", a spin-off of \"Antiques Roadshow\", during 2005. She hosts the show \"Flea Market Flip\" on both HGTV and the Great American Country channel. In April 2018, Spencer announced she would be only appearing on \"GMA\" three days a week to focus on her television producing.\n\nSpencer grew up in the New York suburb of Garden City, Long Island, where she graduated from Garden City High School in 1987. She attended Pennsylvania State University on an athletic scholarship for springboard and platform diving and was a nationally ranked competitive diver. She was named an All American Athlete in 1991, her senior year, and graduated with a degree in broadcast journalism.\n\nFollowing college, Spencer went into the NBC page program where she would volunteer to work with other reporters in order to gain experience. From there, she landed a position at the CBS affiliate WDEF-TV in Chattanooga, Tennessee, where she \"was literally a one-man band\", serving as reporter, producer, editor, cameraman and news-van driver. A year later, she joined News 12 Long Island and two years following that she was anchoring the 3 AM newscast for WABC-TV. While there, she covered the TWA Flight 800 crash, which was considered her big break. She then joined ABC's \"Good Morning America\" in 1999 as a national correspondent.\n\nSpencer married former CNNfn journalist David Haffenreffer on September 30, 2000 at St. Andrew's Dune Church in an Episcopal ceremony. The couple have two children, Kate (2004) and Duff (January 22, 2002). They lived in the Riverside section of Greenwich, Connecticut. In March 2015, the couple announced that they had separated and they were divorced in June 2015.\n\nIn 2014, Spencer was named grand marshal at Penn State's Homecoming 2014.\n\nIn 2017, Spencer hosted the limited series \"People Icons\".\n\nSpencer announced in January 2018 that she was engaged to New York tech entrepreneur Richard McVey. Spencer first met McVey after a mutual friend set them up on a blind date. He is the founder, chairman and CEO of MarketAxess, a publicly traded financial technology company. On September 1, 2018, Spencer and McVey married in an outdoor ceremony in Vail, Colorado. \n\nSpencer was the creator and executive producer of the prime time game show, \"It's Worth What?\", hosted by Cedric the Entertainer, which aired during the summer of 2011 on NBC. Spencer has also created and produced two shows based on her passions for interior designing, which were a one-hour special titled \"I Brake for Yard Sales\" that originally aired in April 2012 on HGTV, and a flea market-themed television series currently airing on Great American Country called \"Flea Market Flip\".\n\nSpencer's first book, titled \"I Brake for Yard Sales\", a guide on how to create high-end looking rooms using second hand finds, was published and released in April 2012. In September 2013, she along with Chris Harrison hosted the 87th Miss America pageant at the Boardwalk Hall in Atlantic City, New Jersey, in which Spencer had replaced Brooke Burke-Charvet. The pageant was broadcast on ABC on September 15, 2013. She later returned to co-host Miss America 2015 with Harrison on September 14, 2014. Her second book, titled \"Flea Market Fabulous: Designing Gorgeous Rooms with Vintage Treasures\", a guide on designing rooms and homes, was published and released on September 16, 2014.\n\nIn August 2019, Spencer's comments about six-year-old Prince George of Cambridge enjoying ballet classes (among other hobbies) were interpreted by some as offensive, causing public backlash. Spencer issued an Instagram apology stating \"I fully believe we should all be free to pursue our passions,\" and later apologized on-air during an interview with three professional male dancers.\n\n"}
{"id": "1840720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840720", "title": "John Summerson", "text": "John Summerson\n\nSir John Newenham Summerson (25 November 1904 – 10 November 1992) was one of the leading British architectural historians of the 20th century.\n\nHe was born at Barnstead, Coniscliffe Road, Darlington. His grandfather worked for the Darlington and Stockton Railway and founded the family foundry of Thomas Summerson and Sons in Darlington in 1869. John Summerson was educated at Harrow and University College London, where he gained a bachelor's degree in 1928. He wrote mainly about British architecture, especially that of the Georgian era. His \"Architecture in Britain: 1530–1830\" (1st edition 1953; many subsequent editions) remained a standard work on the subject for students and general readers after his death. \"The Classical Language of Architecture\" (1963) is an introduction to the stylistic elements of classical architecture and traces their use and variation in different eras. He also wrote many more specialised works, including books about Inigo Jones and Georgian London, as well as \"The Architecture of the Eighteenth Century\" (1986), in which he describes Boullée in a distinct positive manner, stating that Boullée was clearly the point of departure for one of the boldest innovators of the century, Claude Nicolas Ledoux.\n\nSummerson was one of the founders of the National Buildings Record (NBR) in 1941 and was a Commissioner of the Royal Commission on the Historical Monuments of England (RCHME) for twenty-one years, writing the introduction to the book celebrating the NBR's fiftieth anniversary in 1991.\n\nHe was curator of Sir John Soane's Museum from 1945 to 1984.\n\nHe was Slade Professor of Fine Art at the University of Oxford for 1958–59.\n\nThe term Bristol Byzantine, referring to a style influenced by Byzantine and Moorish architecture and applied mainly to warehouses, factories, and other industrial buildings in the city of Bristol, is thought to have been invented by Summerson. He certainly invented the term prodigy house for showy Elizabethan and Jacobean courtier houses.\n\nSummerson was noted for his somewhat elitist approach, and he was not always a consistent friend of the conservation movement. He was hired by the ESB in Ireland to speak in favour of their demolition of sixteen Georgian townhouses in Fitzwilliam Street, Dublin. The doomed terrace, he said, was \"simply one damned house after another\".\n\nAn English Heritage blue plaque commemorating Summerson was erected at his former residence in Chalk Farm, London, in March 2012.\n"}
{"id": "1840727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840727", "title": "Von Mises distribution", "text": "Von Mises distribution\n\nIn probability theory and directional statistics, the von Mises distribution (also known as the circular normal distribution or Tikhonov distribution) is a continuous probability distribution on the circle. It is a close approximation to the wrapped normal distribution, which is the circular analogue of the normal distribution. A freely diffusing angle formula_7 on a circle is a wrapped normally distributed random variable with an unwrapped variance that grows linearly in time. On the other hand, the von Mises distribution is the stationary distribution of a drift and diffusion process on the circle in a harmonic potential, i.e. with a preferred orientation. The von Mises distribution is the maximum entropy distribution for circular data when the real and imaginary parts of the first circular moment are specified. The von Mises distribution is a special case of the von Mises–Fisher distribution on the \"N\"-dimensional sphere.\n\nThe von Mises probability density function for the angle \"x\" is given by:\n\nwhere \"I\"(formula_9) is the modified Bessel function of order 0.\n\nThe parameters μ and 1/formula_9 are analogous to μ and \"σ\" (the mean and variance) in the normal distribution:\n\nThe probability density can be expressed as a series of Bessel functions\n\nwhere \"I\"(\"x\") is the modified Bessel function of order \"j\".\n\nThe cumulative distribution function is not analytic and is best found by integrating the above series. The indefinite integral of the probability density is:\n\nThe cumulative distribution function will be a function of the lower limit of\nintegration \"x\":\n\nThe moments of the von Mises distribution are usually calculated as the moments of the complex exponential \"z\" = \"e\" rather than the angle \"x\" itself. These moments are referred to as \"circular moments\". The variance calculated from these moments is referred to as the \"circular variance\". The one exception to this is that the \"mean\" usually refers to the argument of the complex mean.\n\nThe \"n\"th raw moment of \"z\" is:\n\nwhere the integral is over any interval formula_24 of length 2π. In calculating the above integral, we use the fact that \"z\" = cos(\"n\"x) + i sin(\"nx\") and the Bessel function identity:\n\nThe mean of the complex exponential \"z\"  is then just\n\nand the \"circular mean\" value of the angle \"x\" is then taken to be the argument μ. This is the expected or preferred direction of the angular random variables. The variance of \"z\", or the circular variance of \"x\" is:\n\nWhen formula_9 is large, the distribution resembles a normal distribution. More specifically, for large positive real numbers formula_9,\n\nwhere σ = 1/formula_9 and the difference between the left hand side and the right hand side of the approximation converges uniformly to zero as formula_9 goes to infinity. Also, when formula_9 is small, the probability density function resembles a uniform distribution:\n\nwhere the interval for the uniform distribution formula_35 is the chosen interval of length formula_36 (i.e. formula_37 when formula_38 is in the interval and formula_39 when formula_38 is not in the interval).\n\nA series of \"N\" measurements formula_41 drawn from a von Mises distribution may be used to estimate certain parameters of the distribution. (Borradaile, 2003) The average of the series formula_42 is defined as\n\nand its expectation value will be just the first moment:\n\nIn other words, formula_42 is an unbiased estimator of the first moment. If we assume that the mean formula_1 lies in the interval formula_47, then Argformula_48 will be a (biased) estimator of the mean formula_1.\n\nViewing the formula_50 as a set of vectors in the complex plane, the formula_51 statistic is the square of the length of the averaged vector:\n\nand its expectation value is:\n\nIn other words, the statistic\n\nwill be an unbiased estimator of formula_55 and solving the equation formula_56 for formula_57 will yield a (biased) estimator of formula_57. In analogy to the linear case, the solution to the equation formula_59 will yield the maximum likelihood estimate of formula_57 and both will be equal in the limit of large \"N\". For approximate solution to formula_57 refer to von Mises–Fisher distribution.\n\nThe distribution of the sample mean formula_62 for the von Mises distribution is given by:\n\nwhere \"N\" is the number of measurements and formula_64 consists of intervals of formula_36 in the variables, subject to the constraint that formula_66 and formula_67 are constant, where formula_66 is the mean resultant:\n\nand formula_70 is the mean angle:\n\nNote that product term in parentheses is just the distribution of the mean for a circular uniform distribution.\n\nThis means that the distribution of the mean direction formula_1 of a von Mises distribution formula_73 is a von Mises distribution formula_74, or, equivalently, formula_75.\n\nBy definition, the information entropy of the von Mises distribution is\n\nwhere formula_24 is any interval of length formula_36. The logarithm of the density of the Von Mises distribution is straightforward:\n\nThe characteristic function representation for the Von Mises distribution is:\n\nwhere formula_81. Substituting these expressions into the entropy integral, exchanging the order of integration and summation, and using the orthogonality of the cosines, the entropy may be written:\n\nFor formula_83, the von Mises distribution becomes the circular uniform distribution and the entropy attains its maximum value of formula_84.\n\nNotice that the Von Mises distribution maximizes the entropy when the real and imaginary parts of the first circular moment are specified or, equivalently, the circular mean and circular variance are specified.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1840730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840730", "title": "Muhammad ibn Yusuf al-Harawi", "text": "Muhammad ibn Yusuf al-Harawi\n\nMuhammad ibn Yusuf al-Harawi (, fl. 1492-1518 and died 1542) was a Persian late 15th century physician from Herat, Safavid Empire, now part of Afghanistan.\n\nIn 1518 he composed, in Arabic, an alphabetical medical dictionary and encyclopedia. It covers anatomical and pathological terms and concepts, medicinal substances, and prominent physicians, with all the entries arranged alphabetically. This medical lexicon, titled 'Jawahir al-lughah wa-Bahr al-jawahir', has three chapters: the first explaining terminology for parts of the body (in alphabetical order), the second on the names of simple and compound drugs (also in alphabetical order), and the third on names of diseases, presented in order from head to toe according to their locations. An autograph copy of Jawahir al-lughah exists in which the author states that he completed the correction of the treatise in 1492 (London, Wellcome Library for the History and Understanding of Medicine, MS Arab. 143).\n\nHis other work, “Ainul Hayat” is based on Ageing. The original manuscript of Ainul Hayat was written in 1532 by the author in Herat. There are four copies of this old manuscript reported in various libraries of the world. It is stated that this is the first text on ageing in the world. After collation of these four copies of the manuscript, Hakim Syed Zillur Rahman edited and translated the manuscript in 2007. In the edited book, one can find how the author 500 years back discussed all types of behavioral and lifestyle factors including diet, environment and housing conditions related to ageing. He also discussed what drugs could increase and decrease ageing.\n\nDr Ashfaq Ahmad of NIIMH Hyderabad has translated Ainul Hayat from Arabic to English in 2010\n\n"}
{"id": "1840753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840753", "title": "Pontop Pike transmitting station", "text": "Pontop Pike transmitting station\n\nThe Pontop Pike transmitting station is a facility for telecommunications and broadcasting situated on a 312-metre (1,024-ft) high hill of the same name between Stanley and Consett, County Durham, near the village of Dipton, England. The mast is high, giving an average antenna height of above sea level. It is owned and operated by Arqiva.\n\nThe mast was built in 1953 and its construction was brought forward by the BBC so that people in North East England could watch the Coronation of Queen Elizabeth II live on the 405-line television system VHF then in use in the UK. Test transmissions from a low-power temporary aerial began on Monday, 20 April 1953, and the first programmes were transmitted on Friday, 1 May 1953, in plenty of time for the Coronation on 2 June. UHF transmissions began in 1966 with the first colour transmissions in 1970, and the VHF television signal was switched off in 1985.\n\nThe Pontop Pike transmitter provides digital television transmissions to Tyne and Wear, County Durham, Tees Valley, most of Northumberland and parts of North Yorkshire. It also carries the national BBC Radio FM signals, covering the whole North East, as well as 95.4FM BBC Newcastle. It was one of the first national FM transmitters in December 1955. All of its television output is within the C/D aerial group.\n\nAnalogue TV transmissions from this mast began to close from 12 September and completely ceased on 26 September 2012, making Pontop Pike, as well as Bilsdale and Chatton, the last-but-one transmitter group in the United Kingdom to complete digital switchover (DSO) with Northern Ireland being the last area to switch. In July 2007 it was confirmed by Ofcom that Pontop Pike would remain a C/D group after DSO.\n\nPontop Pike underwent its 700MHz clearance between September and November 2019 when its output moved down the band from a C/D group to a K group. Thus people with original C/D group aerials, who live in poor reception areas, may struggle to pick up some channels (see graph).\n\nAnalogue television from Pontop Pike has now ceased permanently. BBC Two analogue was switched off on 12 September 2012 and the remaining three on 26 September 2012. Pontop Pike did not transmit analogue Channel 5. Instead it was transmitted from Burnhope on UHF 68.\n\nBeing the main broadcasting transmitter, there are also a number of relays (or repeaters) to cover patches where this transmitter can't properly serve.\n\nThe following is a list of the television relays served by Pontop Pike:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1840755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840755", "title": "Liédson", "text": "Liédson\n\nLiédson da Silva Muniz (born 17 December 1977), known simply as Liédson, is a former footballer who played as a striker.\n\nNicknamed \"Levezinho\" (\"Slender one\") due to his light frame (63 kg), he spent the bulk of his professional career in Portugal representing Sporting CP, scoring nearly 200 goals in more than 300 competitive matches, winning four major titles with the club and helping it to four Champions League participations.\n\nBorn in Brazil, Liédson became a Portuguese citizen in 2009 and appeared with the national team at the 2010 World Cup, already in his 30s.\n\nBorn in Cairu, Bahia, Liédson started his professional career at Coritiba Foot Ball Club, aged 22. Before that he played amateur football on weekends, working at a supermarket during the week.\n\nLiédson continued his career at Clube de Regatas do Flamengo and Sport Club Corinthians Paulista, traditional big clubs at Rio de Janeiro and São Paulo respectively, with relative individual success.\n\nLiédson was signed by Sporting CP for €2 million on 31 August 2003, giving manager Fernando Santos a new option following injuries and sales. On his debut, the \"S\" in his name was printed in reverse, which he took as a good omen and maintained it like that for the rest of his career.\n\nLiédson was crowned top scorer in the Primeira Liga in his second season, scoring 25 goals while also netting nine in 14 games as his team reached the final of the UEFA Cup – this included a hat-trick in a 4–0 win at FC Dinamo Tbilisi in the group stage. The following year he finished second in the scoring race, scoring 15 times from 31 appearances (28 of which he played the full 90 minutes) with an impressive mark of 2,899 minutes played; he was top scorer again in 2006–07, but the \"Lions\" only conquered one domestic cup during that timeframe.\n\nConsidered by many as one of the greatest strikers in Sporting history since the early performances of Fernando Peyroteo, Héctor Yazalde, Manuel Fernandes, Rui Jordão, Fernando Gomes, Alberto Acosta and Mário Jardel, Liédson was also regarded as the club's top trademark player since the departures of Luís Figo, Cristiano Ronaldo, Nani and Ricardo Quaresma. He also ranked team top scorer in the UEFA Champions League, after scoring the lonely goal in the 2008–09 group stage contest against FC Shakhtar Donetsk on 22 October 2008. In the last group stage match, he also found the net – in a 2–5 home loss to FC Barcelona – for the 19th time in European competition, another club best; on 1 November he appeared in his 150th league match with the green-and-white striped jersey, 213 overall.\n\nOn 17 January 2010, after having missed one month due to injury, Liédson came from the bench to score twice, helping Sporting overcome C.D. Nacional 3–2 at home. On 7 March, all of the game's goals were his as his team beat last-placed C.F. Os Belenenses 4–0 away.\n\nLiédson entered Sporting's history books on 21 October 2010 as he scored the club's 200th goal in European competitions, netting twice in a 5–1 home win against K.A.A. Gent for the Europa League.\n\nOn 31 January 2011, after having appeared in 310 official matches with Sporting, scoring 174 goals, 33-year-old Liédson returned to his homeland, signing with former club Corinthians. He was still allowed to play with the \"Lions\" the following Friday, starting and scoring twice against Associação Naval 1º de Maio, in a 3–3 home draw.\n\nLiédson contributed with ten games in the 2012 Copa Libertadores campaign, scoring once in the 6–0 group stage home win against Deportivo Táchira of Venezuela (immediately after missing a penalty kick) as the \"Timão\" won the continental competition for the first time in its history. On 31 July, he left Corinthians after both club and player decided not to renew his contract.\n\nOn 2 August 2012, Liédson agreed on a return to Flamengo, signing until December of the following year. In late January of the following year he came back to Portugal, joining FC Porto on a loan until the end of the season. On 11 May, he was involved in the goal that clinched the title for the \"Dragons\" against rivals S.L. Benfica in \"O Clássico\"; put on as a substitute by manager Vítor Pereira alongside Kelvin, he assisted the youngster's added-time winner.\n\nLiédson expressed interest in playing for the Portuguese national team despite being Brazilian-born. He stated: \"If one day I was called up to play, I wouldn’t hesitate for a second, as I feel right at home in Portugal.\" After the retirement of striker Pauleta, Liédson was one of the main candidates in line for succession, especially after countrymen Deco and Pepe's previous switches. Liédson's naturalization process created some controversy, as the Portuguese Football Players' Union in August 2009 publicly objected Portuguese Football Federation's (FPF) plans of expediting his citizenship.\n\nAfter six years of residence in the country, Liédson received Portuguese nationality, being eligible to play for the country. On 26 August 2009, he was called up by national coach Carlos Queiroz for the 2010 FIFA World Cup qualifiers against Denmark and Hungary, and made his debut against the former on 5 September, coming on as a substitute for Tiago at half-time: after having been booked, he scored the final 1–1 in the 85th minute with a header from a corner.\n\nLiédson started the first game in the final stages in South Africa, a 0–0 against Ivory Coast. He lost his place to Hugo Almeida for the following match, but both found the net in the 7–0 routing of North Korea on 21 June 2010, in Cape Town.\n\nCorinthians\n\nSporting\n\nPorto\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1840758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840758", "title": "Tiger Army II: Power of Moonlite", "text": "Tiger Army II: Power of Moonlite\n\nTiger Army II: Power of Moonlite is Tiger Army's second album, released on July 24, 2001. It featured London May on drums, Geoff Kresge on stand up bass and Nick 13 on vocals and guitar. London May left the band before their next album, \"\" (he was replaced with Fred Hell). This album in particular features songs that are laced with rockabilly overtones (such as \"Cupid's Victim\"), though the band is considered psychobilly.\n\n\"Annabel Lee\" references the popular poem of the same title by Edgar Allan Poe. Some songs, including \"Under Saturn's Shadow\" and \"Annabel Lee,\" are backed with vocals by Davey Havok of AFI.\n\nAll songs written and composed by Nick 13\n\n"}
{"id": "1840762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840762", "title": "Fossil water", "text": "Fossil water\n\nFossil water or paleowater is an ancient body of water that has been contained in some undisturbed space, typically groundwater in an aquifer, for millennia. Other types of fossil water can include subglacial lakes, such as Antarctica's Lake Vostok, and even ancient water on other planets.\n\nUNESCO defines \"fossil groundwater\" as\nDetermining the time since water infiltrated usually involves analyzing isotopic signatures. Determining \"fossil\" status—whether or not that particular water has occupied that particular space since the distant past—involves modeling the flow, recharge, and losses of aquifers, which can involve significant uncertainty. Some aquifers are hundreds of meters deep and underlie vast areas of land. Research techniques in the field are developing quickly and the scientific knowledge base is growing. In the cases of many aquifers, research is lacking or disputed as to the age of the water and the behavior of the water inside the aquifer.\n\nLarge, prolific aquifers (notably the Nubian Sandstone Aquifer System and the Ogallala Aquifer) containing fossil water are of significant socio-economic value. Fossil water is extracted from these aquifers for many human purposes, notably, agriculture, industry, and consumption. In arid regions, some aquifers containing available and usable water receive little to no significant recharge, effectively making groundwater in those aquifers a non-renewable resource. Extraction rates greater than recharge rates result in lowering of the water table and can lead to groundwater depletion. Extraction of non-renewable groundwater resources is referred to as groundwater \"mining\" because of their finite nature.\n\nAquifers are typically composed of semi-porous rock or unconsolidated material whose pore space has been filled with water. In the relatively rare cases of confined aquifers, an impermeable geologic layer (e.g. clay or calcrete) encloses an aquifer, isolating the water within, sometimes for millennia. More commonly, fossil water is found in arid or semi-arid regions where the climate was significantly more humid in recent geologic history. In some semi-arid regions, the majority of precipitation evaporates before it can infiltrate and result in any significant aquifer recharge.\n\nMost fossil groundwater has been estimated to have originally infiltrated within the Holocene and Pleistocene (10,000–40,000 years ago). Some fossil groundwater is associated with the melting of ice in the time since the last glacial maximum. Dating of groundwater relies on measuring concentrations of certain stable isotopes, including (tritium) and (\"heavy\" oxygen), and comparing values with known concentrations of the geologic past.\n\nFossil water can potentially dissolve and absorb a number of ions from its host rock. Salinity in groundwater can be higher than seawater. In some cases, some form of treatment is required to make these waters suitable for human use. Saline fossil aquifers can also store significant quantities of oil and natural gas.\n\nThe Ogallala or High Plains Aquifer sits under 450,000 km of 8 states of the United States of America. It is one of the largest freshwater deposits in the world. The aquifer is composed of unconsolidated alluvial deposits. Groundwater in this aquifer has been dated to have been deposited in the humid time following the last glacial maximum. In much of the aquifer's area, an impermeable layer of calcrete prevents precipitation from infiltrating. In other regions of the aquifer, some relatively small rates of recharge have been measured.\n\nThe aquifer supplies water for the many people who live above it and for widespread agricultural uses. In many areas, the water table has dropped drastically due to heavy extraction. Depletion rates are not stabilizing; in fact, they have been increasing in recent decades.\n\nThe Nubian Sandstone Aquifer System is located in northeastern Africa, under the nations of Sudan, Libya, Egypt, and Chad, covering about 2,000,000 km. It is largely composed of many hydraulically interconnected sandstone aquifers. Some parts of the system are considered to be confined, if somewhat leaky, due to impermeable layers such as marine shales. The water was deposited between 4,000 and 20,000 years ago, varying by specific locality.\n\nThe water in the Nubian Sandstone Aquifer System is of high importance to the people living above it, and has been for millennia. In modern times, as demand increases, avoiding rapid depletion and international conflict will depend on careful cross-boundary monitoring and planning. Libya and Egypt are currently planning development projects to withdraw significant amounts of the aquifer's fossil water for use.\n\nOther fossil aquifers have been identified throughout Northern Africa as well.\n\nThe Kalahari Desert is in central southern Africa (Botswana, Namibia, and South Africa). Geology of the area includes significant karst formations. Most of the precipitation in the region evaporates before it can contribute to significant recharge of the aquifers below. Whether or not the region's aquifers receive any significant recharge has long been the subject of debate and research. In the northern region of the Kalahari, a deep aquifer in Cave sandstone was found to have isotopic signatures that suggested it had been confined with little to no leakage for long periods of time.\n\n"}
{"id": "1840765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840765", "title": "Angela (comics)", "text": "Angela (comics)\n\nAngela is a fictional superhero created by author Neil Gaiman and artist Todd McFarlane. She first appeared as a supporting antagonist in McFarlane's creator-owned series \"Spawn\", making her debut in issue #9 in March 1993, and later starring in her own self-titled miniseries. She is an angel and a bounty hunter, working under the auspices of Heaven to oppose Spawn.\n\nAngela was later the subject of a legal battle between McFarlane and Gaiman over the rights to the character, which Gaiman won. Gaiman later sold the rights to the character to Marvel Comics; she was integrated into the Marvel Universe in the 2013 story \"Age of Ultron\", and her character was expanded upon in the 2014 storyline \"Original Sin\", where she was established to be the lost sister of Thor.\n\nIn 1993 Todd McFarlane contracted Neil Gaiman, along with three other recognized authors, Alan Moore, Dave Sim, and Frank Miller, to write one issue of his creator-owned comics series \"Spawn\", which was published by Image Comics. While doing so, Gaiman introduced the characters Angela, Cogliostro, and Medieval Spawn. All three characters were co-created and designed by McFarlane. Angela first appeared in issue #9, as an adversary. In 1994 and 1995, a three-issue \"Angela\" limited series was published, written by Gaiman and illustrated by Greg Capullo, in which Angela and Spawn were forced by circumstance to temporarily work together as allies. The series was later reprinted as a trade paperback titled \"Angela Trade Paperback\", retitled as \"Spawn: Angela's Hunt\" in later printings and given a new cover design (). \n\nThe monthly \"Spawn\" series continued to feature all of the characters Gaiman had created long after his direct involvement had ended. Some characters had tie-ins with McFarlane's toy company, and Cogliostro had a prominent role in the live-action movie in 1997. Angela would appear in \"Spawn\" #62, #89, and #96 through #100, and in a 1995, a one-shot. She was also featured featured in several crossovers. The \"Rage of Angels\" miniseries saw Angela meeting Glory in \"Angela and Glory\" (1996), and was continued in \"Youngblood\" #6 (1996) and \"Team Youngblood\" #21. There was also a crossover called \"Aria/Angela\", in which she featured in the series \"Aria\".\n\nMcFarlane had initially agreed that Gaiman retained creator rights to the characters, but later claimed that Gaiman's work had been work-for-hire and that McFarlane owned all of Gaiman's co-creations entirely, pointing to the legal indicia of \"Spawn\" #9 and the lack of legal contract stating otherwise. McFarlane had also refused to pay Gaiman for the volumes of Gaiman's work that McFarlane republished and kept in print. In 2002, Gaiman filed suit and won a sizable judgment against McFarlane and Image Comics for the rights due any creator. All three characters were then equally co-owned by both men. In 2012, McFarlane and Gaiman settled their dispute, and Gaiman was given full ownership of Angela.\n\nComic Book Resources confirmed on March 21, 2013 that Neil Gaiman was returning to Marvel Comics and would bring Angela with him. Joe Quesada was quoted as saying her first appearance as a proper Marvel character would happen at the finale of the \"Age of Ultron\" storyline.\n\nBleedingCool later confirmed that Marvel Comics had completely bought the rights to Angela from Gaiman.\n\nOn May 9, 2013 \"Entertainment Weekly\" published the first image of Angela as redesigned by Joe Quesada for her appearances in books published by Marvel Comics.\n\nAngela is an angel and a bounty hunter, working under the auspices of Heaven to oppose Spawn. She attempted to kill Spawn upon their first meeting, but was defeated despite her significantly greater experience. Later, he came to her aid during her trial in Heaven, where he testified that she had permission to kill him. They were temporarily trapped in a pocket dimension when Spawn's cloak acted to protect him from her weapons. Spawn's restructuring of reality allowed them to return from the pocket dimension, and also erased Angela's 'permit' to use her weapons against him. While returning to Earth they started a romantic relationship. However, Angela was killed during the battle with Malebolgia. Spawn returned her body to the angels, who presumably brought her back to life.\n\nDuring the 2013 \"Age of Ultron\" storyline, Angela is revealed to be alive and has been pulled from Heaven as a result of Wolverine's damage to the Omniverse. In a combination of rage and confusion, she charges towards Earth from outer space, only to be intercepted by the Guardians of the Galaxy, leading to her joining the team.\n\nDuring the \"Original Sin\" storyline, it is revealed that she is Aldrif, the daughter of Odin and Freyja, making her sister to Thor and Loki. She was \"killed\" as an infant during Asgard's war with the Angels of the Tenth Realm called \"Heven.\" This crime resulted in Odin severing the Tenth Realm from the other nine as punishment for their attack. Thor learns of his sister's existence when he is exposed to the secrets of Uatu, the Watcher's eye, by the Orb. He returns to Asgard to confront his mother about his sister's existence, and subsequently travels to the Tenth Realm with Loki to learn more about his sister.\n\nThe Guardians of the Galaxy and Angela are attacked in warp space by a band of pirates, called Warpjackers. During the battle, Angela abandons the Guardians when the adult Loki telepathically tells her that the portal to Heven is open and that she can return home. As Thor battles Heven's guards, Angela appears having been guided to the doorway to Heven by Loki, and prepares to battle Thor. Angela defeats an exhausted Thor who had just fought off the army of Heven, and is then told by the Queen of Angels to bring Thor to her. The now-female Loki has aligned with the Angels, telling Thor that \"being on the winning side seems just perfect.\"\n\nWhile Loki leads an Angel fleet to Asgard, under the false pretense to help them destroy it, Thor escapes captivity and engages Angela in combat once again. The fight between Thor and Angela is interrupted when Odin (who Loki freed from his self-exile) arrives and recognizes Angela as his daughter, revealing Angela's true lineage as the long thought dead Aldrif. A long time ago, the Angel tasked to dispose of Aldrif's body found out the baby was alive and raised her as one of the Angels under the name of Angela. In light of this revelation, the Queen of Angels grants Angela her life, pardoning her for her service to the Angels, but exiles her from Heven due to her lineage. After leaving Heven, Odin tells Thor, Loki, and Angela that he still loves his children. Angela then decides to leave in order to explore the other realms.\n\nLater, Angela and her lover Sera abduct the newborn daughter of Odin and Freyja. Unbeknownst to Odin, the baby is possessed by the spirit of Surtur and Odin orders Thor to hunt down the pair. Angela and Sera with help from the Guardians of the Galaxy, stay ahead of Thor and take the baby to Heven to be cleansed of Surtur's spirit. There, Angela throws the baby into the stalled engines of Heven. Surtur's fire is expelled from the baby and reignites the engines of Heven. For this action, Angela's debt to Heven is repaid and thus closes her last remaining connection to the realm.\n\nAfter Angela returns the baby to Odin, she discovers that Sera is actually Malekith the Accursed and the real Sera, who was previously killed in battle, remains in Hel. Angela travels to Hel and petitions Hela to restore her love to life. When Hela refuses, Angela launches a campaign of conquest with the help of Sera and Hela's handmaiden, Leah, completing several trials to become the new Queen of Hel. When she succeeds, she frees the souls of the dead Angels enslaved by Hel, and restores Sera to life, only to abdicate and return to Earth with Sera and Leah, having no need for power.\n\nAngela later joins Strikeforce, an Avengers-adjacent black ops team as the co-leader alongside Blade.\n\nIn her current Marvel incarnation, Angela is a born god and heir to Asgardian throne. She has enormous amounts of super strength which enables her to fight opponents like Jane Foster (Thor), super speed where she moves faster than lightning and super durability where she can withstand attacks from the likes of Gamora, Drax and Thor. She also has the ability to fly.\n\nUnlike the rest of Asgardian Gods, Angela is immortal and does not require Golden Apples to sustain her youth. She lived for eons without any substance.\n\nSeveral alternate versions of Angela appeared in Marvel's 2015 \"Secret Wars\" storyline:\n\nAngela appeared in the animated TV series \"Todd McFarlane's Spawn\", voiced by Denise Poirier.\n\nAngela made her first Marvel Animated appearance in the \"Guardians of the Galaxy\" episode \"We Are the World Tree\", voiced by Nika Futterman. She accompanies Thor into attending a statue unveiling on Spartax that depicted the years of peace Spartax had with Asgard. Angela gets into a brief sword fight with Gamora. Later on, she faces Gamora again when the Guardians of the Galaxy end up in Asgard. In the episode \"Asgard War Part One: Lightning Strikes\", Angela accompanies Thor in the war against Spartax. In the episode \"Asgard War Part Two: Rescue Me\", Angela accompanies Thor and the Destroyer Armor into assisting the Guardians of the Galaxy into rescuing Star-Lord from Thanos.\n\nAngela has a brief cameo in the live-action film adaptation of \"Spawn\", portrayed by Laura Stepp.\n\nElements of Angela were used for the character of Hela in \"\".\n\n\nAngela is the subject of a song by heavy metal band Iced Earth called \"The Hunter\", which appears on their Spawn-themed concept album \"The Dark Saga\".\n\nIn 1995 and 1996, Angela was nominated for, but did not win, a number of Wizard Fan Awards: 1995 Favorite Villainess, 1995 Character Most Deserving of Own Ongoing Title, 1995 Favorite One-shot or Limited Series/Miniseries, and 1996 Favorite Heroine.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1840775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840775", "title": "White Oleander (film)", "text": "White Oleander (film)\n\nWhite Oleander is a 2002 American drama film directed by Peter Kosminsky. The cast stars Alison Lohman in the central role of Astrid Magnussen and Michelle Pfeiffer as her personality-disordered, murderous, manipulative mother, Ingrid, with Robin Wright, Noah Wyle and Renée Zellweger in supporting roles. The screenplay was adapted from Janet Fitch's 1999 novel \"White Oleander\", which was selected for Oprah's Book Club in May 1999.\n\nFifteen-year-old Astrid Magnussen (Alison Lohman) is living in Los Angeles with her mother, the free-spirited artist Ingrid (Michelle Pfeiffer). Since her father left before she was old enough to remember him, Astrid depends heavily upon the care of her passionate but largely self-centered mother.\n\nIngrid's current relationship with a writer named Barry (Billy Connolly) ends when she discovers he is cheating on her with younger women. Ingrid murders him with a poison made from white oleander. Ingrid is arrested and sentenced to life in prison, leaving Astrid under the care of the state of California.\n\nAstrid is sent to live with foster mother Starr Thomas (Robin Wright), a former stripper who is a recovering alcoholic and born-again Christian. They initially interact well, with Astrid being baptised into Starr's church. Ingrid is appalled at Astrid's religious conversion and manipulates Astrid against her foster family. Astrid begins an affair with Starr's live-in boyfriend Ray (Cole Hauser), which drives Starr to relapsing. After a loud argument with Ray, she runs into Astrid's room in a drunken rage and shoots her in the shoulder. Starr and Ray both flee the scene; the other children beg Astrid not to tell who shot her, so Astrid pretends she has no clue.\n\nAstrid spends some time recovering in a hospital before being moved to McKinney Children's Center (known as \"Mac\"). After fighting with some girls, she strikes up a friendship with fellow artist Paul Trout (Patrick Fugit).\n\nEventually, Astrid is placed in the care of Claire Richards (Renée Zellweger), a former actress, and her producer husband Mark (Noah Wyle). Claire is a fragile but affectionate woman who forms a close bond with Astrid, who finally begins to thrive as a result. One day, Astrid comes home to find a letter from Ingrid to Claire. Claire admits the correspondence has been going on for a while and that Ingrid insists on meeting. During their prison visitation meeting, a jealous Ingrid exploits Claire's low self-esteem and suspicions over Mark's fidelity, much to Astrid's outrage. Claire's depression worsens; during a bad fight with Mark, she agrees to send Astrid back to try and save her marriage. Astrid begs Claire not to send her away. Claire seems to recant, then unexpectedly commits suicide later that night, devastating Astrid.\n\nAstrid visits Ingrid in prison to inform her of Claire's death, and that she was returned to Mac. Blaming Ingrid for Claire's suicide, Astrid announces she will never visit her again. In Mac, Paul tells Astrid that when he turns 18 soon he will move to New York. He asks Astrid to accompany him but she coldly refuses.\n\nAstrid passes up better foster parent candidates and chooses to live with a Russian immigrant, Rena Gruschenko (Svetlana Efremova), who treats her foster children as cheap laborers for her swap meet business. During her time with Rena, she becomes colder and colder, with her outward appearance matching her inside demeanor. She is approached by her mother's attorney Susan Vallares (Kali Rocha), a woman taken in by her mother's charm. Susan offers Astrid anything she wants in exchange for lying for her mother in court, since her mother has benefactors. Astrid refuses; Rena tells her that she's stupid to turn down money. Rena then offers to make Astrid an equal partner in their business, since Astrid has nowhere better to go. When Astrid balks at the idea, Rena encourages her to use her mother like her mother wants to use her.\n\nAstrid visits Ingrid one final time in prison, astonishing her with her appearance. She is no longer blond, but has black hair, harsh makeup, and dark clothes. Realizing she has control over her mother for once in her life, Astrid demands answers about her past in exchange for testifying that Barry committed suicide. Astrid hammers her with questions about Barry, her father, Claire, and a mysterious woman named Annie whom Astrid vaguely recalls from her toddler years. Ingrid admits that Annie was a neighbor with whom she left Astrid for over a year in order to continue living her self-obsessed lifestyle. Ingrid further admits that Astrid's father came looking for her when she was 8, but Ingrid turned him away for leaving them 7 years before. Astrid is devastated by these revelations. Ingrid claims she would take all she has done back, but when Astrid begs her to not make her testify, she refuses.\n\nAstrid goes to a comic book shop looking for letters from Paul. He soon shows up by bus in Los Angeles and the two renew their relationship. He accompanies her to her mother's trial as she waits to testify. The courtroom lets out and a curious Astrid goes to see what is going on. She questions Susan, and finds out that Susan was instructed by Ingrid to leave Astrid alone during the trial. Ingrid spots Astrid in the courtroom and they stare at one another as she is led away. Gutted, Astrid stares out the window as her mother is taken back to the bus to return to prison. Paul asks what happened, and she exhales that her mother finally let her go.\n\nTwo years later, a once-again-blond Astrid has created a life in New York City with Paul. She is seen tending to her art; dioramas in suitcases depicting all she has been through. As she passes them, she closes each, stating she will never visit the horrors they contain again. Pausing at the final suitcase depicting Ingrid, Astrid reflects in voiceover that no matter how flawed Ingrid is, she knows her mother loves her.\n\n\nBarbra Streisand turned down offers to direct the film and play Ingrid Magnussen.\n\nAlison Lohman wore a wig throughout filming because she had just finished playing a cancer patient in deleted scenes from the film \"Dragonfly\" (2002).\n\nThe film clip Claire (Renée Zellweger) shows Astrid as an example of her acting career is of Zellweger's own early performance in \"The Return of the Texas Chainsaw Massacre\" (1994).\n\n\"White Oleander\" holds a rating of 70% on Rotten Tomatoes and a score of 61 on Metacritic, indicating generally favorable reviews.\n\nStephen Holden, writing for the \"New York Times\", called it a \"rich, turbulent adaptation,\" and described the performances as \"superbly acted from top to bottom.\" Comparing it to other films on the same theme – \"Anywhere but Here\" (1999), \"Tumbleweeds\" (1999), and \"The Divine Secrets of the Ya-Ya Sisterhood\" (2002) – Holden found \"White Oleander\" to be the only one to show \"how children instinctively absorb their parents' attitudes and personalities.\" Roger Ebert, writing for the \"Chicago Sun-Times\", wrote, \"\"White Oleander\" tells a sad story of crime and foster homes, and makes it look like the movie version. The film takes the materials of human tragedy and dresses them in lovely costumes, Southern California locations and star power.\" Andrew Sarris, writing for \"The Observer\", named it as a runner-up on his list of the ten best English-language films of 2002.\n\nThe performances were widely acclaimed, particularly those of Pfeiffer and Lohman. \"The New York Times\" called Pfeiffer's role the \"most complex screen performance of her career... at once irresistible and diabolical\", while the \"Los Angeles Times\" singled out her \"riveting, impeccable performance in what is literally and figuratively a killer role.\" \"Variety\" described it as a \"daring, unsympathetic performance\". Lohman's work was variously described as \"the year's most auspicious screen acting début\", a \"tremendously weighty and extended role... [taken on] with great confidence\" and an \"awesome performance\".\n\nPfeiffer won the Kansas City Film Critics Circle Award for Best Supporting Actress and the San Diego Film Critics Society Award for Best Supporting Actress, and received a nomination for the Screen Actors Guild Award for Outstanding Supporting Actress.\n\nZellweger was nominated for the Satellite Award for Best Supporting Actress – Motion Picture.\n\nLohman was nominated for the Phoenix Film Critics Society Award for Best Newcomer.\n\nMarc Donato won a Young Artist Award in the category of Best Performance in a Feature Film – Supporting Young Actor.\n\nUmbrella Entertainment released \"White Oleander\" on DVD in December 2011. The DVD is compatible with all region codes and includes special features such as the theatrical trailer, interviews with the cast and creators, behind the scenes footage and audio commentary with Peter Kosminsky, John Wells and Janet Fitch.\n\n"}
{"id": "1840795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840795", "title": "Yapese language", "text": "Yapese language\n\nYapese is a language spoken by the people on the island of Yap (Federated States of Micronesia). It belongs to the Austronesian languages, more specifically to the Oceanic branch of that family. It has been difficult to classify it further, but Yapese may prove to be one of the Admiralty Islands languages.\n\nWritten Yapese uses Latin script. In Yapese spelling as practiced until the 1970s, the glottal stop was not written with an explicit character. A word-final glottal stop was represented by doubling the final vowel letter. Glottalization of consonants was represented with an apostrophe. In the 1970s an orthography was created which uses double vowel letters to represent long vowels; and because of the ambiguity that would occur if the glottal stop was not written, the glottal stop was written with the letter \"q\". This new orthography using the letter \"q\" is not in universal use, but many works and maps about Yap represent place names using the orthography and contain amounts of the letter \"q\" that are likely to be puzzling to persons not familiar with the language and the new orthography.\n\nApart from a couple grammatical forms which are V, syllables are CV or CVC.\n\nYapese is one of the relatively few languages in the world with ejective fricatives. The Yapese ejective consonants are . There are also glottalised nasals and approximants .\n\nIn the table below, each phoneme is listed to the left of the grapheme that represents it in Yapese orthography.\n\nIn the table below, each phoneme is listed to the left of the grapheme that represents it in Yapese orthography.\n\nYapese makes use of reduplication for several morphological functions, including deriving stative adjectives from inchoative adjectives, as in (1a–b), as well as to make diminutives of verbs, as in (2a-b):\n\nYapese distinguishes between three numbers (singular, dual, and plural) and three persons (first, second, and third), as well as clusivity in its personal pronouns.\n\nA Yapese Talking Dictionary was produced by Living Tongues Institute for Endangered Languages.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1840798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840798", "title": "Sabrina Spellman", "text": "Sabrina Spellman\n\nSabrina Victoria Spellman is the titular character of the Archie Comics series \"Sabrina the Teenage Witch.\" Sabrina was created by writer George Gladir and artist Dan DeCarlo, and she first appeared in \"Archie's Mad House\" #22 in October 1962.\nSabrina the Teenage Witch debuted in \"Archie's Madhouse\" (the logo sometimes given as \"Archie's Mad House\") #22 (Oct. 1962). Created by writer George Gladir and artist Dan DeCarlo, she first appeared in that humor anthology's lead story (the logo then spelled \"Teen-Age\"), and eventually became one of Archie Comics' major characters, appearing in an animated series and a television sitcom. Gladir recalled in 2007:\nOriginally, Sabrina was created by her two aunts, Hilda and Zelda Spellman, from a magic potion that turned out wrong. However, it was later retconned by the 1996 Sabrina sitcom that Sabrina is a \"half-witch\" (her mother is an ordinary human, or \"mortal\" as witches refer to them, while her father is a warlock). She lives with Hilda and Zelda (both witches themselves) in the fictional town of Greendale, which is located somewhere near Riverdale, the home of Archie Andrews, while her father is away. The 1996 live action series also gave Sabrina and her aunts the last name “Spellman”. Also living with the three women as the family pet is Salem Saberhagen. In the original comic stories Salem was a typical witch's cat who did not talk. The 1996 sitcom introduced the idea that Salem was a witch who has been turned into a cat as punishment for world domination attempts.\n\nMost of Sabrina's adventures consist of Sabrina either trying to use her powers in secret to help others – witches generally are not allowed to tell mortals about their abilities or existence – or dealing with the day-to-day trials of being a teenager. A recurring theme in Sabrina's stories is her learning more about the proper use of her powers, either through her aunts or from trips to a magical dimension that is the home of various magical/mythological creatures, including other witches. Various names are given to this dimension; the mid-late 2000s comics refer to it as the \"Magic Realm,\" while the live-action sitcom referred to it as the \"Other Realm.\" These adventures even contained moments where Sabrina had to act as superhero on occasion.\n\nSabrina's primary romantic love interest is her mortal boyfriend named Harvey Kinkle who, like nearly all the other mortals in Sabrina's world, is unaware his girlfriend is a witch.\n\nSabrina Spellman appears in the first issue of \"Afterlife with Archie\" where she resurrects Hot Dog for Jughead. This starts the zombie apocalypse in Riverdale. She later appears in issue 6 where she is forced to become the bride of Cthulhu.\n\nIn the crossover \"Archie vs. Predator\", Betty and Veronica go to Sabrina's house to ask for aid when Pop's murder by the Predator is connected to a knife Betty found on their Spring Break vacation. When Sabrina tries performing the spell, the Predator leaps into her house and murders her and Salem. When the police come to check the murder, the house disappears and the police are turned into goats.\n\nSabrina Spellman is the main character in \"Chilling Adventures of Sabrina\" set in the city of Greendale near Riverdale.\n\nSabrina first appeared in a 1969 segment from Filmation's \"The Archie Comedy Hour\". She later appeared in her own Filmation half-hour series in 1971. Here she is created by Hilda and Zelda Spellman out of magic potions, as well as the accidental addition of teenage girls' stuff, due to being accidentally bumped by Zelda.\n\nA 12-year-old version of Sabrina appeared in \"\" (1999–2000), produced by DIC Entertainment. The animated series was advertised as a spin-off of the live-action series and borrowed certain elements from it, but it was set in an alternate continuity closer to that of the comics, as it contradicted the live-action show's premise of Sabrina not knowing about magic prior to her sixteenth birthday. This was followed by \"\" (2002) and \"Sabrina's Secret Life\" (2003–2004), also produced by DIC In These DIC Animated Series Sabrina Spellman Sabrina: The Animated Series (1999-2000) Sabrina Is Not Voiced by Melissa Joan Hart at all. Sabrina Spellman In Sabrina: The Animated Series (1999-2000)Is Instead voiced by Voice Actress Emily Hart and In Her Later Show Sabrina's Secret Life (2003-2004) She Is Voiced by Voice Actress Britt Mckillip.\n\nIn 2012, \"\" premiered also centering on a younger Sabrina. Ashley Tisdale provided the voice acting for the character.\n\nIn 1996, a live-action TV film called \"Sabrina the Teenage Witch\" premiered on Showtime, starring Melissa Joan Hart. This movie led to the live-action television series later that same year on ABC which ran for seven seasons until 2003.\n\nOn her sixteenth birthday, Sabrina learns that she is a half-witch (through her father's side) and has magical powers. She also learns that her two aunts are witches themselves and that their black cat Salem is a witch who has been turned into a talking household pet as punishment for attempting worldwide domination. At Westbridge High, she befriends Jenny Kelly (and later Valerie Birkhead) and has an on-again, off-again relationship with Harvey Kinkle. She also has to deal with the snobby and headstrong cheerleader, Libby Chessler, who becomes Sabrina's rival for school activities as well as Harvey's affections. In later seasons, Sabrina is enrolled at the fictional Adams College in Boston. After getting her degree in journalism she moves back to her aunts' house with Morgan and Roxie. She took a job with the fictitious Scorch Magazine, a music-themed magazine for which she interviews famous artists. Later on, she meets a man named Aaron, who also worked in the music industry, and the two begin dating. Before long, Aaron proposes, and in the finale, the two are set to wed when unforeseen events took place. Sabrina starts to suspect that Aaron was not the one for her, and after trying to connect her soul stone with his, she becomes sure of it. While the stones mostly fit, it is not a perfect fit. She tries to ignore this but finally follows her heart and cancels the marriage at the altar. When she runs out of the church, she finds Harvey waiting for her outside on his motorcycle, holding his soulstone that Amanda, her cousin, had left him. Harvey and Sabrina toss their soul stones aside and ride off together in true finale fashion, not even noticing that the stones fit together perfectly. For most of the series, Sabrina would regularly cast spells that landed her in trouble, requiring her to turn to her aunts for help. In season 5, after moving out of her aunts' house, Sabrina starts thinking of herself as independent, and whenever something goes wrong, she tries to solve the problem on her own. However, she cannot help but get herself into situations beyond her control (as in the episode \"Heart of the Matter\", when she uses a dating spell to attract boys, but the spell goes wrong when Sabrina's head and heart becoming conflicted. She is then forced to go to Zelda for help).\n\nDuring her time at Adams College, as revealed in the episode \"The Whole Ball of Wax,\" Sabrina is finally able to meet her mother. However, it is revealed that the Witches' Council had set a decree that if the two were ever to meet face to face, her mother would turn into a ball of wax. While the decree was never repealed, Sabrina accidentally frees her mother by crying into the ball of wax. However, they could not ever see each other face to face again, the one exception being the series finale, in which Hilda volunteered Zelda to be turned into wax until the wedding ended. In the TV movie \"Sabrina Goes to Rome\", Sabrina, accompanied by Salem, travels to Rome, Italy in order to discover the secret of a mysterious antique locket and save her Aunt Sophia. While there, she befriends Gwen, an inexperienced British witch, who helps her to solve the mystery of the locket. The sequel, \"Sabrina Down Under\", depicts Sabrina and Gwen going on vacation in Australia's Great Barrier Reef and end up trying to save a hidden colony of merpeople from water pollution and a scheming marine biologist.\n\nThroughout the series, it is shown that Sabrina has many love interests and boyfriends she has romantic crushes on. Her most prominent one is her first boyfriend, Harvey Dwight Kinkle. In Seasons 1-4 she meets and dates Harvey Kinkle, who becomes her first true love which is proven when Harvey is turned into a frog by her kiss, she takes the test of true love and passes it, proving she truly loves him. Though in the early seasons, they break up but usually make up in the end. However, in an episode of \"Boy Meets World\" titled \"The Witches of Penbrook\", she is seen at the end of the episode on a date with Eric Matthews. When she was dating Dashiell, another magic-powered character, she had to choose between both Dashiell and Harvey and eventually chooses Harvey.\n\nIn season 4, she is romantically attracted to Josh who is her manager at the coffee house where she works. She kisses him and Harvey witnesses it causing them to break up though they get back together in \"Love Means Having to Say You're Sorry\". They officially end their romantic relationship in \"The End Of an Era\" but Harvey still appears in the show as a recurring character. In season 6, she starts dating Josh who at first dated Morgan, her roommate. Meanwhile, in the season 6 finale, Sabrina gives up her one true love to save her Aunt Hilda and it happens when during her aunt's wedding she falls to pieces when Harvey tells her he still has strong romantic feelings for her but she does not return them, making him leave for California. Josh says he is taking the photography job he was offered in Prague, and a cute waiter named Luke says goodbye but she is saved when her Aunt Zelda gives up her adult years to save her.\n\nIn the seventh season, she meets and starts dating Aaron whom she met at the Scorch magazine office. They become engaged but Sabrina's aunt Irma turns him into a goldfish but Aaron is turned back when Harvey (who is in love with Sabrina) uses Sabrina's magic because he wants to make Sabrina happy. In the series finale, Sabrina prepares for her wedding but stops it when she realizes Aaron is not her soulmate and she runs off with Harvey, her soulmate and first true love (they are soulmates because when their soul stones drop to the ground they fit perfectly) at 12:36, the time they first met seven years ago.\n\nIn September 2017, it was announced that Sabrina would return to television in the form of a new live action series that would act as a spin-off to The CW's \"Riverdale\". Prior to that announcement, there were rumors of Sabrina making a guest appearance in \"Riverdale\", perhaps leading the way into her own spin-off series. On December 1, 2017, Deadline reported that the series was picked up by Netflix. The first season was released by Netflix on October 26, 2018. The adaptation is a re-imagining of the origin and adventures of Sabrina the Teenage Witch, with a darker and more edgy story that highlights the balances between good and evil. In January 2018, it was announced that Kiernan Shipka has signed on to play the lead role of Sabrina Spellman. There are now three seasons on Netflix with a 4th season in production. \n\n \n"}
{"id": "1840812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840812", "title": "KTBU", "text": "KTBU\n\nKTBU, virtual channel 55 (UHF digital channel 33), is a Quest owned-and-operated television station serving Houston, Texas, United States that is licensed to Conroe. The station is owned by Tegna Inc., as part of a duopoly with Houston-licensed CBS affiliate KHOU (channel 11). The two stations share studios at 5718 Westheimer Road near Uptown Houston; KTBU's transmitter is located near Missouri City, in unincorporated northeastern Fort Bend County. There is no separate website for KTBU; instead, it is integrated with that of sister station KHOU.\n\nPreviously, KTBU maintained separate facilities on Old Katy Road in the northwest side of Houston, while the KHOU studios only housed KTBU's master control and some internal operations.\n\nThe station first signed on the air on July 15, 1998, and was originally owned by Charles Dowen Johnson's Humanity Interested Media (alongside KVQT-LD) and then by the Osteen family of Lakewood Church. The station was later purchased by the Houston-based USFR Media Group.\n\nAs an independent station branded as \"Houston's 55\", KTBU formerly carried an eclectic line-up of classic and recent syndicated television series, as well as locally produced shows focusing on sports, history and other topics of interest to Houstonians.\n\nIn May 2011, the station was sold to the Spanish Broadcasting System for $16 million. Upon the completion of the sale, KTBU joined SBS' Mega TV network.\n\nOn January 21, 2020, Tegna Inc. agreed to acquire KTBU for $15 million. The sale was completed on March 24, 2020, making KTBU a sister station to CBS affiliate KHOU.\n\nOn March 27, 2020, KTBU's main channel flipped to the Tegna-owned Quest multicast network.\n\nThe station's digital signal is multiplexed:\nKTBU discontinued regular programming on its analog signal, over UHF channel 55, on June 12, 2009, as part of the federally mandated transition from analog to digital television. The station's digital signal remained on its pre-transition UHF channel 42, using PSIP to display KTBU's virtual channel as 55 on digital television receivers, which was among the high band UHF channels (52-69) that were removed from broadcasting use as a result of the transition.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1840824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840824", "title": "The Myth Makers", "text": "The Myth Makers\n\nThe Myth Makers is the completely missing second serial of the third season in the British science fiction television series \"Doctor Who\", which was first broadcast in four weekly parts from 16 October to 6 November 1965. The story is set in ancient Troy, and is based on the \"Iliad\" by Homer. This serial sees the last appearance of Maureen O'Brien as Vicki and the introduction of Adrienne Hill as the Doctor's newest companion, Katarina. Although audio recordings and clips of the story exist, no episodes of this serial are known to have survived.\n\nThe Greek army has besieged the walled city of Troy for ten years. The TARDIS materialises outside the city, distracting the Trojan Hector, son of King Priam. The Greek warrior Achilles takes advantage and kills him. When the First Doctor emerges, Achilles believes him to be the God Zeus, in disguise, and brings him to the Greek encampment along with the warrior Odysseus. At the camp, the Greek leader Agamemnon insists the Doctor help them fight the Trojans, although Odysseus believes he is a Trojan spy.\n\nMeanwhile, the Doctor's companions Vicki and Steven remain in the TARDIS. Vicki has an injured ankle from a previous adventure, so Steven goes alone to try to find the Doctor. Odysseus catches Steven and takes him to the Greek camp. Pretending to be Zeus, the Doctor persuades the Greeks to spare Steven until the next morning. They learn that the TARDIS has disappeared.\n\nThe TARDIS has been taken into Troy by another of King Priam's sons, Paris, and presented as a prize to his father. Priam's daughter, the prophet Cassandra, denounces the TARDIS as dangerous – she has dreamt that the Greeks will leave a gift on the plain which will contain soldiers to attack the Trojans. She demands that the TARDIS be burnt. A pyre is constructed, but before the fire is lit, Vicki emerges from the TARDIS, which is taken as a sign from the gods. She is renamed Cressida and made a favourite at court. This enrages Cassandra, who believes Vicki to be a rival prophet, although her handmaiden Katarina defends Vicki.\n\nPriam sends Paris out to avenge his brother Hector. Paris calls for his rival Achilles to present himself, but Steven persuades the Greeks to send him in Greek armour instead, hoping to be taken prisoner so he can search for Vicki. Adopting the identity Diomedes, Steven engages Paris in battle and his ruse works. When he arrives, however, Vicki greets him with his real name, which Cassandra sees as a sign they are both spies. Steven and Vicki are taken to cells. Priam's youngest son Troilus visits Vicki. She persuades him to try to get them released, and it is clear the two are falling in love.\n\nThe Doctor proposes to Odysseus a great ruse: the Greeks will pretend to sail away, leaving a wooden horse behind outside Troy, as a tribute and acknowledgement of defeat, hoping the Trojans will take it inside the city without realising it is actually hollow and filled with Greek soldiers. Agamemnon approves, but only provided the Doctor is among those inside the horse. The horse is spotted by the Trojans, who rejoice at the Greek army's apparent retreat. Priam has Vicki released. Paris brings the horse into the city. Vicki frees Steven, who urges her to convince Troilus to leave Troy. She tells Troilus that Diomedes has escaped. Troilus leaves Troy to search for him, but encounters Achilles, whom he kills to avenge Hector.\n\nAt nightfall, the Greeks and the Doctor leave the horse and open the city gates. The Greek army enters and so begins the downfall of Troy. As the fighting rages, the Doctor evades Odysseus and finds Vicki. Priam and Paris are slain, and Cassandra taken prisoner. Katarina finds Steven badly wounded and helps him return to the TARDIS. Vicki leaves the Doctor, anxious to find Troilus; outside the doomed city, they declare their love for each other and flee.\n\nOdysseus threatens the Doctor, who is able to dematerialise the TARDIS with Steven and Katarina on board. Katarina believes she has died and the Doctor is taking her on the journey after death. Steven is delirious because of his wound, and the Doctor feels he must land somewhere to attend to Steven's injuries.\n\n Episode is missing\n\nThis was the first story produced by new series producer John Wiles, replacing the original producer, Verity Lambert, in the role. Originally, the titles of all the episodes were intended by Dennis Spooner to be puns (as was that of Episode 2), including: \"Zeus Ex Machina\" and \"Is There A Doctor In The Horse?\". These titles were vetoed by the BBC, but the title of Episode 2 was allowed to remain only at script editor Donald Tosh's insistence. A number of chapters in the novelisation have titles based around these puns.\n\nDonald Cotton pulled material for his scripts from his extensive knowledge of classical and medieval literature, including the epics of Homer, the plays of Aeschylus and Euripides, Virgil's Aeneid, and Geoffrey Chaucer's Troilus and Criseyde.\n\nWilliam Hartnell suffered a bereavement while working on the story: the death of his Aunt Bessie, who had looked after him during his troubled childhood. Unfortunately, the tight recording schedules prevented Hartnell from taking time off to attend her funeral. This led to him becoming difficult during production, refusing to speak to actors Max Adrian or Francis de Wolff and declaring director Michael Leeston-Smith a \"fool\".\n\nBarrie Ingham also played Alydon in the film \"Dr. Who and the Daleks\" (1965). Francis de Wolff had previously played Vasor in \"The Keys of Marinus\" (1964). Tutte Lemkow had previously played Kuiju in \"Marco Polo\" (1964) and Ibrahim in \"The Crusade\" (1965). Ivor Salter had previously played the Morok Commander in \"The Space Museum\" (1965) and would appear again as Sergeant Markham in \"Black Orchid\" (1982).\n\nA novelisation of this serial, written by Donald Cotton, was published by Target Books in April 1985. There are significant differences between the novel and the televised story; the novel is narrated by Homer, who also plays the part of the mute servant Cyclops from the episode. The cliffhanger ending of Steven being wounded is also gone. An unabridged reading of the novelisation by actor Stephen Thorne was released on CD in April 2008 by BBC Audiobooks.\n\nThe soundtracks to these episodes exist and have been released on CD with linking narration provided by Peter Purves. The only extant clips – eleven short 8mm film recordings made by fans off-air – were made available on the \"Lost in Time\" DVD boxset release. A full reconstruction has been created with the film recordings, production stills and the complete soundtrack.\n\nIn the 1980s, Reeltime Pictures launched a series of home video releases featuring interviews with the cast and crew of \"Doctor Who\". This long-running series of tapes (which later included the first independently produced \"Doctor Who\" spin-offs) was entitled \"Myth Makers\" after this story.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1840825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840825", "title": "Streets of Rage 3", "text": "Streets of Rage 3\n\nStreets of Rage 3, known in Japan as , is a side-scrolling beat 'em up developed and published by Sega in 1994 for the Sega Mega Drive/Genesis. It is the third installment of the \"Streets of Rage\" series and the last game in the original trilogy (today there is a fourth episode called \"Streets of Rage 4\"). It was later released for the Japanese version of \"Sonic Gems Collection\" for the Nintendo GameCube and PlayStation 2, and for the Wii Virtual Console in September 2007. The game also appeared in \"Sonic's Ultimate Genesis Collection\" for Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3.\n\nThe game features several changes over \"Streets of Rage\" and \"Streets of Rage 2\" such as a more complex plot, inclusion of character dialog, longer levels, more in-depth scenarios and faster gameplay. Weapons could be integrated with unique moves with certain characters, hidden characters were added and a few cutscenes were included to give the story greater depth.\n\nMuch like the previous two games, \"Streets of Rage 3\" is a side-scrolling beat 'em up in which up to two players fight against waves of enemies. Players can choose from returning characters Axel, Blaze, and Skate, along with a new character named Dr. Zan, a robot who automatically converts every weapon picked up into a ball of energy. By fulfilling certain conditions, two bonus characters, Shiva and Roo, can be unlocked for play, with a third unlockable character, Ash, being exclusive to the Japanese release. \n\nSeveral tweaks have been made to the gameplay following \"Streets of Rage 2\". Whereas only Skate was able to run in the previous game, now each character is able to run, as well as perform a vertical dodge roll. Blitz attacks can be upgraded through successive play, and a rechargeable meter allows players to perform a Special attack without losing any health when full. Certain weapons now have special attacks that can be performed in the same way as Blitz attacks. However, all weapons now have a limited number uses before they break, and unlockable characters are unable to hold weapons at all. \n\nStages in the game features traps, originally featured in the first \"Streets of Rage\", such as bottomless pits, and some stages have alternate routes depending on certain actions, such as whether players can clear a room of enemies before a non-playable character is killed by poison gas. Enemy AI was also expanded so more enemies can pick up weapons, block attacks, employ co-operative attacks, and even steal exposed food items to regain health. The Western release of the game features altered graphics and sound effects and increased difficulty compared to the Japanese version, and does not feature Ash as a playable character. Like the previous game, a Battle mode lets two players fight against each other.\n\nAfter being defeated twice, Syndicate crime boss Mr. X has started a research company called RoboCy Corporation to act as a cover for his illegal activities. The world's best roboticist, Dr. Dahm, has been brought in to help him create an army of realistic robots to replace important officials from the city. With the replacements in place, Mr. X plans to run the city using a remote control device. His criminal organization, The Syndicate, has strategically placed bombs around the city to distract the police while the city officials are dealt with.\n\nDr. Zan discovers what the research is really for and knows the Syndicate must be stopped. He contacts Blaze Fielding with the details of The Syndicate's plan. Blaze quickly contacts her old comrades Axel Stone and Adam Hunter for a task force to bring down The Syndicate once and for all. Axel quickly joins the task force, but Adam cannot make it (due to his own assignments from within the police) and sends his young brother, Eddie \"Skate\" Hunter instead. The game has four endings depending on the difficulty level and if the player defeats certain levels in an allotted amount of time.\n\nThree of the playable characters from former games return in the sequel: Axel Stone, Blaze Fielding, and Eddie \"Skate\" Hunter (Sammy Hunter in the Japanese version), each of which have their respective strengths and weaknesses. Dr. Zan replaces Max from the second game, with any weapon he picks up turning into a ball of energy. Adam from the first game makes a story cameo, and Max only makes a cameo appearance in the game's \"good\" ending.\n\nThree of the game's boss characters can also be accessed through in-game codes. The first mid-boss, a homosexual named Ash, was removed from the Western releases of the game (although he can be accessed through cheat cartridges). Shiva, the martial artist who debuted in \"Streets of Rage 2\" and newcomer Roo (Victy in the Japanese version) the kangaroo can also be accessed. Shiva, Roo and Ash are unable to use weapons.\n\nSeveral pre-release screenshots show that there was originally a section where the players got to ride the motorcycles they are so often attacked by. This section was removed for the final version, but is still playable (though buggy and unfinished) with a Game Genie code in the Japanese version.\n\nWhen the game was localized from the original Japanese version to the English-language release, significant changes were made. The clothing of the three returning heroes (Axel, Blaze, and Sammy) was altered from their original colors seen in previous \"Streets of Rage\" games, the female enemy characters wore less-revealing outfits, and a sub-boss named \"Ash\", a gay stereotype, was removed from the English version (though he is still accessible in \"Streets of Rage 3\" as a playable character via cheating and/or hacking). The voice-effects were also changed, with most noticeably Axel's catchphrase of \"Grand Upper\" for his blitz move being replaced with \"Bare Knuckle\".\n\nAnother notable difference between the two games is the plot: The Japanese version of the story opens with a new explosive substance called \"Raxine\", discovered by a character named Dr. Gilbert (who is revealed to be the true identity of Dr. Zan), which explodes in the city and kills thousands of people. At the same time, a military general named Ivan Petrov vanishes. It is later discovered that Mr. X orchestrated the general's disappearance and plans to use Raxine to start a global war.\n\nIn the English version, all references to Raxine were removed, General Petrov was replaced by the city's Chief of Police, and the plot now involves a scheme to switch major city officials with robot clones in order to take control of the city. Another difference was if the player failed to save the general, the player has to head to what appears to be the White House. This too was changed in the English adaptation, where instead if the player failed to save the Chief, then the player has to head to City Hall, although the building depicting the City Hall is still clearly based on the White House. The bad ending sequence from the Japanese releases features a photo of a devastated city as text narrates the player's failure; this was removed in the Western releases and text scrolls upward on a black background. The credits were removed from the bad ending of the Western version (possibly to show that it was not the true ending), whereas in the Japanese version they still play.\n\nThe game's overall difficulty was also altered for the English version, with the game's Normal setting being significantly more difficult than even the Japanese version's Hard setting. Also, the English version of the game cannot be completed on the Easy setting (it will end after Stage 5). Axel and Skate are noticeably absent from the European box art, while the new character Zan appears alongside Blaze. This is because the box art for the game was originally used as a magazine cover art that Sega of Europe bought later to be used. Another significant difference between versions is that the Special attacks consume less of the player's health in the English version.\n\nThe game's soundtrack was composed by Yuzo Koshiro and Motohiro Kawashima, who had both worked on \"Streets of Rage 2\", and features influences from Detroit's hard techno scene which was popular in Tokyo nightclubs at the time of the game's development. For the soundtrack, Koshiro created a new composition method called the \"Automated Composing System\" to produce \"fast-beat techno like jungle.\" It was among the most advanced electronic music creation technique at the time, incorporating heavily randomized sequences. This resulted in sounds generated automatically that, according to Koshiro, \"you ordinarily never could imagine on your own.\" This method was very rare at the time, but has since become popular among techno and trance music producers. The soundtrack also had elements of abstract, experimental, and gabber.\n\nThe Japanese version of \"Sonic Gems Collection\" includes \"Bare Knuckle I\", \"II\", \"III\" (\"Streets of Rage 1\", \"2\" and \"3\"). These, along with \"Bonanza Bros.\", are excluded from releases outside Japan to obtain lower age ratings. \"Streets of Rage 3\" later appeared alongside its other games in \"Sonic's Ultimate Genesis Collection\". On May 3, 2012, \"Streets of Rage 3\" was released on Valve's Steam platform, both as a stand-alone game as well as part of the \"Sega Genesis Classics Pack 5\".\n\nA \"Streets of Rage Collection\", which released under the \"Sega Vintage Collection\" series in 2012, features the original trilogy and allows the player to choose between the Japanese, European, or North American versions of them.\n\n\"GamePro\" commented that the game is little different from previous entries in the series, but praised the new moves and support for the six-button controller. The four reviewers of \"Electronic Gaming Monthly\" praised the new moves and larger levels, though two of them criticized that the soundtrack was well below Yuzo Koshiro's usual standard. \"Mean Machines\"s reviewers said the game had easily outdone the graphics of the first two \"Streets of Rage\" games due to the larger sprites, but had failed to significantly advance the gameplay of the series. They concluded it to be overall fun and playable, albeit too easy. \"Digital Press\" gave it 8 out of 10. \"Mega\" placed the game at #25 in their Top Mega Drive Games of All Time.\n\nIn a retrospective assessment, \"Mean Machines\" commented that the plot and music are terrible, but the visuals are colorful and beautiful, the levels are varied, and the challenge is more than sufficient. The reviewer concluded, \"If you've never played any of the SOR series before, SOR2 is probably a better entry point, but be sure to sample this third outing at some point.\"\n\nA fourth installment, titled \"Streets of Rage 4\", was announced by DotEmu in late August 2018, and released on April 30, 2020.\n\n"}
{"id": "1840831", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840831", "title": "Port of Gdańsk", "text": "Port of Gdańsk\n\nThe Port of Gdańsk is a seaport located on the southern coast of Gdańsk Bay in the city of Gdańsk, extending along the Vistula estuary Martwa Wisła (Dead Vistula), Port Channel and Kashubia Canal. It is one of the largest seaports on the Baltic Sea.\n\nThe Port of Gdańsk is divided into two parts, the Inner and Exterior Port.\n\n\nThe Port of Gdańsk has specialized cargo handling equipment and port infrastructure, enabling among others the handling of grain, fertilizers, lumber, ore, steel and containers, as well as ro-ro vessel servicing.\n\nNorthern Port is located directly in the water basins of Gdańsk Bay. The largest vessels with a capacity of up to and draft to 15 m that enter the Baltic Sea can be serviced here.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1840832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840832", "title": "Big Little Baby", "text": "Big Little Baby\n\n\"Big Little Baby\" is the first 7\" single by The Reverend Horton Heat. It was released in 1988 on Four Dots Records. It is the only recording to feature the band's original lineup of Heath, Barton, and Baranowski.\n\n"}
{"id": "1840840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840840", "title": "Torre Glòries", "text": "Torre Glòries\n\nThe Torre Glòries, formerly known as Torre Agbar (), is a 38-story skyscraper/tower located between Avinguda Diagonal and Carrer Badajoz, near Plaça de les Glòries Catalanes, which marks the gateway to the new technological district of Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain. It was designed by French architect Jean Nouvel in association with the Spanish firm b720 Fermín Vázquez Arquitectos and built by Dragados. The Torre Glòries is located in the Poblenou neighbourhood of Barcelona and it was originally named after its owners, the Agbar Group, a holding company whose interests include the Barcelona water company Aigües de Barcelona.\n\nThe tower measures a total of , of which are offices, technical facilities, services, including an auditorium, and parking space. It cost €130 million to build.\n\nIt opened in June 2005 and was officially opened by King Juan Carlos I on 16 September 2005. It is one in a collection of high-tech architecture examples in Barcelona.\n\nThe building was owned by the multinational group Agbar, which has its corporate headquarters in the building and which takes up most of the floors, leasing the remainder. The Agbar Tower was acquired in March 2010 for 165 million euros, after reaching an agreement with its former owner, the investment group Azurelau. Azurelau had previously bought the property in mid-2007. The purchase price was not disclosed.\n\nBy 2017 it was purchased by Merlin Properties real estate group and it was renamed as Torre Glòries after the name of the adjacent square.\n\nAccording to Jean Nouvel, Torre Agbar is intended to recall the shape of a geyser rising into the air. It was inspired by Montserrat, a mountain near Barcelona. In an interview, he described the tower as having a phallic character. As a result of its unusual shape, the building is known by several nicknames, such as \"el supositori\" (\"the suppository\"), \"l'obús\" (\"the shell\") and some more scatological ones. It is also somewhat similar in shape to Sir Norman Foster's 30 St. Mary Axe in London, often called \"the Gherkin\". The Agbar Tower measures in height and consists of 38 storeys, including four underground levels.\n\nIts design combines a number of different architectural concepts, resulting in a striking structure built with reinforced concrete, covered with a facade of glass, and over 4,500 window openings cut out of the structural concrete. The building stands out in Barcelona; it is the third tallest building in the city, after the Arts Hotel and the Mapfre Tower, which both stand tall.\n\nA defining feature of the building is its nocturnal illumination. It has 4,500 LED devices that allow generation of luminous images on its façade. In addition, the outside of the tower has temperature sensors that regulate the opening and closing of the window blinds of the façade, reducing the consumption of energy for air conditioning. It houses the head office of the \"Aigües de Barcelona\" Group, the water supply company of Barcelona.\n\nAs explained by Nouvel himself, the construction was strongly influenced by one of the most representative symbols of Catalan culture. One side references the bell towers of the Sagrada Familia by the Catalan architect Antoni Gaudí. (These bell towers were based in turn on the idea of the Hotel Attraction, a course project by the teacher Reus in 1908 for some New York hoteliers, which was redesigned in 1956 by his disciple Joan Matamala. These designs were included in Rem Koolhaas' book \"Delirious New York\", a reference for many architects.) An additional tribute to the Sagrada Família lies in the north side of the tower, which was designed with the intention of obtaining an optimal view of the cathedral.\n\nAdditionally, Nouvel was inspired by the distinctive pinnacles of the Montserrat mountain range, which are of great significance for the people of Catalonia, as Montserrat houses their patron saint, Our Lady of Montserrat.\n\nIn designing the Agbar Tower, Nouvel said he rejected the prevailing North American opinion of what a skyscraper should look like. It was the architect's intention to give the impression of land that is emerging out of the ground in a particular fashion. The use of the tower by a water utility company led him to the design of a metaphor of a geyser sprouting from the deep sea.\n\nStarting in mid-1999, when activities were initiated for preparing the site, Dragados's, construction project dragged on for nearly six years, finally ending in late 2004. Approximately 1170 workers were engaged in its construction.\n\nThe main materials used in the construction of the building are concrete which comprises the structure of the tower and aluminium and glass in the form of 59,619 strips of painted sheet metal of different colours, covering the approximately 16,000 m of exterior surface. In addition, the glass has different inclinations and opacities which, combined with the different shades of aluminium, alter the colour balance of the tower as a function of time of day and season of the year.\n\nThe construction used 25,000 m of concrete and 125 tonnes of steel.\n\nThe tower is made up of two concentric concrete oval cylinders which do not come in contact with each other. The outer cylinder, which completely encases the inner cylinder is covered by a dome of glass and steel which gives the tower its characteristic shape of a bullet. This outer cylinder with a thickness of 45 cm at the base and 25 cm at the top contains approximately 4,500 windows, while the inner cylinder measuring 50 cm at the base and 30 cm at the highest point, is where the lifts, stairs and facilities are located.\n\nThe building contains 38 floors of which 34 are above ground and four floors are underground. Two of the underground floors host an auditorium for 316 people in addition to other services areas while the other two are intended for parking. Of the 34 floors located above the ground, 28 are for offices, three are technical plants hosting building facilities, one is dedicated to multipurpose rooms, another houses the cafeteria and the last is intended to be a viewing platform just below the top of the tower.\n\nOne of the most characteristic elements of the building is its nocturnal illumination. The tower has more than 4,500 luminous devices that can operate independently using LED technology and enables the generation of images on the outside of the tower. The system is capable of creating 16 million colours, thanks to a sophisticated system of hardware and software. It has the ability to quickly transition between colours which can create a shocking effect.\n\nDuring Christmas, New Year and other events the tower changes color in animated computer controlled sequences.\n\nThe unique lighting system of the building, dubbed by its creator Yann Kersalé as diffraction, who defined it as \"a vaporous cloud of colour that seeks moiré\", is often used in the celebration of various events such as the naming of Barcelona as the capital of the Union for the Mediterranean or the 50th anniversary of Treaty of Rome.\n\nOnce it was finished, the Agbar Tower quickly became an architectural icon of the city of Barcelona and one of its most famous buildings. However, it was not initially immune to criticism from citizens and experts who said that its characteristics did not fit into the architecture of Barcelona. Over time it has become one of the symbols that universally identify the Catalan capital and is one of its tourist attractions.\n\nIn mid-2008, a number of Catalan public institutions made a list that included the major cultural icons in the Autonomous Community that were meant to serve as models for tourist souvenirs which identity Catalonia, and the tower was included in it.\n\nThe popularity of the tower to tourists is such that a visit to the tower has become a part of tourist bus routes (and even the helicopter tour) and many tourists take an opportunity to visit the inside.\n\nSince 2006, TV3, the main Catalan regional television service, has used the capabilities the special lighting system at the Agbar Tower offered to show end of year celebrations. This has become the venue chosen by thousands of locals and visitors to the city to welcome the New Year. This choice of the tower as an icon of the city for New Year celebrations have allowed Barcelona to begin to appear on television around the world alongside those of famous landmarks in cities such as Sydney, Madrid, Paris, London or New York City. Prior to 2006 this did not occur because the places chosen by TV3 lacked the international recognition that the Jean Nouvel tower provides.\n\n\nThe Torre Agbar is a featured locale in the 2009 video game \"Wheelman\", published by Midway Games. \n\nThe Torre Agbar also featured in a postcard in the music video of \"Loca People\" by Sak Noel, where it was described in the subtitles as 'Giant Dildo'. \n\nThe Torre Glòries was shown multiple times in the 2016 movie, \"The Invisible Guest\" (original title: \"Contratiempo\" lit. 'Setback').\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1840844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840844", "title": "Notkea Rotta", "text": "Notkea Rotta\n\nNotkea Rotta is a Finnish rap group consisting of members Notkea Rotta, Rautaperse (Komisario Jyrkkä), Rohtori Laine and Meno-Anu. The group mixes humour and comedy in their brand of hip hop, crafting original (and largely fictional) rap saga of the underground culture in the east side of Helsinki. Notkea Rotta heavily parodies - or pays tribute to - American gangsta rap.\n\nNotkea Rotta released their debut single \"Pohinää\" with Karelia Records, which became an instant urban classic. \"Pohinää\" topped at #7 on the Finnish Single list. The debut album \"Panokset piippuun, pöhinät pönttöön\" (also on Karelia Records) cemented Notkea Rotta's place in the cult of Suomi-Räp. \n\nTheir lyrical subject matter mostly deals with common Finnish street drugs (especially amphetamine), sex and the occasional clashes with the police. The group raps exclusively in Finnish, using a lot of Helsinki slang vocabulary, making it rather difficult for non-speakers to understand the lyrics.\n\nWhile the group had a band on stage at live acts for a longer time, on the last album the band was also in the studio for the recording of the 2007 album \"Kontula - Koh Phangan All Night Long\". The band is called \"Liekehtivät Torsionit\" (Flaming Torsions) and consists of musicians better known from bands like Barathrum, Ensiferum, L.A.M.F. and Defuse.\n\n\nThe rhythm section of the band is called Liekehtivät Torsionit. \n\nThe band members of Liekehtivät Torsionit have contributed to other bands as well including Waltari, Ensiferum, Defuse and Smack.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1840853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840853", "title": "1908 Republican National Convention", "text": "1908 Republican National Convention\n\nThe 1908 Republican National Convention was held in Chicago Coliseum, Chicago, Illinois on June 16 to June 19, 1908. It convened to nominate successors to President Theodore Roosevelt and Vice President Charles W. Fairbanks.\n\nU.S. Secretary of War William H. Taft of Ohio won Roosevelt's endorsement and received the presidential nomination. The convention nominated New York Representative James S. Sherman to be his vice presidential running mate.\n\nThe Republican platform celebrated the Roosevelt administration's economic policies such as the keeping of the protective tariff, establishment of a permanent currency system (the Federal Reserve), additional government supervision and control over trusts. It championed enforcement of railroad rate laws, giving the Interstate Commerce Commission authority to investigate interstate railroads, and reduction of work hours for railroad workers, as well as general reduction in the work week.\n\nIn foreign policy, it supported a buildup of the armed forces, protection of American citizens abroad, extension of foreign commerce, vigorous arbitration and the Hague treaties, a revival of the U.S. Merchant Marine, support of war veterans, self-government for Cuba and the Philippines with citizenship for residents of Puerto Rico.\n\nIn other areas, it advocated court reform, creation of a federal Bureau of Mines and Mining, extension of rural mail delivery, environmental conservation, upholding of the rights of African-Americans and the civil service, and greater efficiency in national public health agencies.\n\nThe platform lastly expressed pride in U.S. involvement in the building of the Panama Canal, the admission of the New Mexico and Arizona Territories; called for the celebration of the birthday of Abraham Lincoln; and generally deplored the Democratic Party while celebrating the policies of the Republicans. The platform explained the differences between democracy and republicanism in which the Republicans made clear that democracy was leaning towards socialism and republicanism towards individualism which is actually consistent with modern party critiques.\n\nThe following individuals spoke at the 1908 Republican National Convention. Many spoke with the goal of nominating a specific nominee as this was before the age of the primary and the nominees were all decided at the convention.\n\n\n\n\n\nPrior to the convention, Vice President Charles Fairbanks and New York Governor Charles Evans Hughes both seemed like plausible nominees, but Roosevelt was determined to pick his own successor. Though Roosevelt preferred Secretary of State Elihu Root, Root's age and background in corporate law made him an unpalatable nominee, so Roosevelt instead supported Secretary of War William Howard Taft. Entering the convention, Taft, buoyed by the support of the popular Roosevelt, was virtually assured of the nomination. Taft won the presidential nomination on the first ballot, overcoming Fairbanks and the other candidates.\n\nTaft preferred a progressive running mate such as Indiana Senator Albert Beveridge or Iowa Senator Jonathan Dolliver, but Representative James S. Sherman of New York had the support of Speaker Joseph Gurney Cannon and the New York delegation. Sherman was a fairly conservative Republican who was nonetheless acceptable to the more progressive wing of the party. Sherman won the vice presidential nomination on the first ballot, taking 816 of the 979 votes cast. Former New Jersey Governor Franklin Murphy received 77 votes while Massachusetts Governor Curtis Guild, Jr. received 75 votes, with the remaining votes going to Governor George L. Sheldon of Nebraska and Vice President Charles Fairbanks.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1840860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840860", "title": "Jeff Ott", "text": "Jeff Ott\n\nJeff Ott (born June 24, 1970) is an activist, musician, author, and longtime member of the Berkeley punk community, best known for playing guitar and singing in the bands Crimpshrine, and Fifteen.\n\nOtt was born on 1970 in Berkeley, California and began playing music at the age of four. He was physically and sexually abused as a child and ran away from home at the age of 13. Ott became a gutter punk, living on the streets of Berkeley for 11 years.\n\nOtt joined his first band, S.A.G., in 1982 at age 12. His 13-year-old friends Aaron Cometbus and Jesse Michaels (later of Operation Ivy) played guitar and sang. Ott started out on drums but soon swapped instruments with Cometbus. Michaels described Ott as \"twenty times better than us\", and Ott admits that he \"didn't know any chords, so I played with my thumb.\" When Michaels left the group in 1984 Ott took up vocals and the band changed its name to Crimpshrine, derived from a nickname for a girl they knew who had \"bleached-blond, burned, crimped hair.\" As the group developed, Ott began experimenting with playing synthesizer and piano, until joined by bassist Pete Rypins in October 1986 and began gigging locally. Ott was often asked if he was a fan of early Belfast punk group Stiff Little Fingers because of his rough vocal style, but neither he nor the other members of Crimpshrine had heard the Northern Irish band until after the ongoing comparisons. \n\nIn 1987 Crimpshrine made a demo tape, contributed songs to \"Maximumrocknroll\"'s \"Turn It Around!\" compilation, and recorded their debut EP \"Sleep, What's That?\", released in early 1988 on the newly founded label Lookout! Records. The album \"Lame Gig Contest\" followed, released in Europe on Germany's Musical Tragedies label. Though unreleased in the U.S., \"L.A. Weekly\" would name it one of the top five top albums of pre-commercial pop punk.\n\nIn the fall of 88 Crimpshrine embarked on their sole U.S. tour. Halfway through, Bryant and Rypins left, stranding Ott and Cometbus in Florida. Members of Screeching Weasel drove out from Chicago to help them finish their tour. When Crimpshrine returned to the Bay Area, Paul Curran joined on bass and they recorded one final EP before disbanding in 1989.\n\nWith Jack Curran, Ott formed a new group called Fifteen, who went on to record two LPs for Lookout! Records and several more on a few smaller labels. For Fifteen, Ott changed his singing style drastically in order to save his voice. The group went through many lineup changes before breaking up in 1996, and then reformed in 1997, only to break up again in 2000.\n\nToward the end of Fifteen, Ott released the 1998 solo acoustic album, \"Epithysial Union\", which also featured songs by Amanda Ketchum (billed only as \"Amanda'\"). In 2000 Ott sold everything he had to buy a house and support his children. He pursued a solo career for several years, releasing the double album, \"Will Work for Diapers\" in 2003. In 2003 he entered nursing school and went on to train as a nurse practitioner. In 2007 he stopped recording music in order to devote more time to his studies. In December 2011 his band Fifteen reunited to play two Bay Area benefit shows. He now is a nurse and is helping drug addicts.\n\nOtt's politically charged lyrics tackle issues such as racism, homophobia, misogyny, classism, drug abuse, needle exchange, civil rights, gender roles, homelessness, addiction, environmentalism, social injustice, political conspiracy, and rape. His solo work uses many of the same songs and lyrical themes as his rock-band work.\n\nHe has also published two books: 2000's \"My World: Ramblings of an Aging Gutter Punk\" () consists of excerpts from his self-published zine of the same name, and 2005's \"Weapons of Mass Destruction and the Real War on Terror\" (), focusing on domestic violence, police brutality, sexual abuse, and how he sees these issues as more urgent and credible than the War on Terror. Both books were published by Sub City Records.\n"}
{"id": "1840865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840865", "title": "Scream Bloody Gore", "text": "Scream Bloody Gore\n\nScream Bloody Gore is the debut studio album by American death metal band Death, released on May 25, 1987, through Combat Records. It is considered by some to be \"the first true death metal record\". Chuck Schuldiner plays bass and guitar, wrote all the songs on the album and provided all the vocals. John Hand is noted on the cover as playing rhythm guitar, though this was incorrect and Hand was only in the band for a short period and was not on the recording. This is also the only Death album to feature drummer Chris Reifert, who had joined for the \"Mutilation\" demo, and the only one of the band's albums to not be recorded at Morrisound Recording.\n\nPerseverance Holdings, Ltd. and Relapse Records reissued the album on May 20, 2016, on CD, vinyl, and cassette. The album was remastered for this release, and also included the original Florida session as well as recordings of rehearsals performed in 1986.\n\nThe album was actually recorded twice, with the second Los Angeles-based session being released as the complete album by label Combat Records (later Relativity). It was first recorded in Florida, although only the rhythm guitar and drum tracks were recorded. The track listing consisted of \"Torn to Pieces\", \"Legion of Doom\", \"Scream Bloody Gore\", \"Sacrificial Cunt\" (later shortened to \"Sacrificial\" because the label asked the band to do so, possibly because \"they didn't want to get P.M.R.C. on their case\"), \"Mutilation\", \"Land of No Return\", and \"Baptized in Blood\". The label were unsatisfied after hearing the initial mix, so Schuldiner and Reifert re-recorded the album in California with Randy Burns as producer. Once returning to Florida, the first session was released as a promotional tape, and was eventually bootlegged. \"Legion of Doom\" was a longtime staple of Death's rehearsals and live shows, and was indeed the first song written, reaching back to when they were known as Mantas.\n\nDespite the many songs written during Death's demo days, only half of them were re-recorded for the album, the rest being new compositions. \"Infernal Death\" and \"Baptized in Blood\" originally appeared on the \"Infernal Death\" demo. \"Mutilation\" originally appeared on the \"Back from the Dead\" demo. \"Zombie Ritual\" and \"Land of No Return\" originally appeared on the \"Mutilation\" demo, and \"Evil Dead\" and \"Beyond the Unholy Grave\" were originally on \"Death By Metal\". \"Beyond the Unholy Grave\" and \"Land of No Return\" were also cut from the vinyl and cassette versions of the album, though were included as CD-only bonus tracks and on subsequent re-releases in other formats, along with two live audio tracks taken from the \"Ultimate Revenge II\" video.\n\nCertain songs on the album were inspired by horror movies. \"Regurgitated Guts\" was inspired by the 1980 film \"City of the Living Dead\" (a.k.a. \"The Gates of Hell\"), \"Beyond the Unholy Grave\" was influenced by the 1981 film \"The Beyond\", and \"Zombie Ritual\" was inspired by the 1979 film \"Zombie\", all of which were directed by Italian director Lucio Fulci.\n\n\"Scream Bloody Gore\" is often considered the first death metal album. Although some critics consider Possessed's \"Seven Churches\" to be the first death metal record, AllMusic's Eduardo Rivadavia suggests that \"Seven Churches\" was a transition between thrash metal and death metal, while \"Scream Bloody Gore\" defined the core elements of death metal. According to music journalist Joel McIver, Death's debut album was a \"turning-point in extreme metal\", and qualified it as \"the first true death metal album\". Writer Ian Christe stated in \"\" that \"\"Scream Bloody Gore\" emulated hardcore punk. It also evoked the dark moods of horror sound tracks from the drive-in zombie and cannibal horror films of George Romero\". \"Metal Forces\" described the album as \"death metal at its utmost extreme, brutal, raw and offensive – the kind that separates the true death metallers from countless trend-following wimps\".\n\nIn 2016, a re-release of the album was one of the top 200 selling albums in the United States in its first week of release, marking Death's first appearance in the US Billboard 200 chart at .\n\nAll songs written by Chuck Schuldiner.\n\n"}
{"id": "1840870", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840870", "title": "Rising Sun (film)", "text": "Rising Sun (film)\n\nRising Sun is a 1993 American crime film written and directed by Philip Kaufman, starring Sean Connery (who was also an executive producer), Wesley Snipes, Harvey Keitel, and Cary-Hiroyuki Tagawa. Michael Crichton and Michael Backes wrote the screenplay, based on Crichton's 1992 novel of the same name.\n\nDuring a commencement gala at the newly opened Los Angeles headquarters of Nakamoto, a Japanese keiretsu, a call girl named Cheryl Lynn Austin, is found dead, apparently after a violent sexual encounter. Police Detectives Webster \"Web\" Smith and John Connor, a former police captain and expert on Japanese affairs, are sent to act as liaison between the Japanese executives and the investigating officer, Smith's former partner Tom Graham. During the initial investigation, Connor and Smith review surveillance camera footage, and realize that one of the discs is missing.\n\nSmith and Connor suspect Eddie Sakamura, Cheryl's yakuza boyfriend, of killing her, and interrogate him at a house party. Sakamura promises to bring Connor something, and Connor reluctantly lets him go after confiscating his passport. Ishihara, a Nakamoto employee whom Connor had previously interrogated, delivers the missing disc, which clearly shows Sakamura killing Cheryl. Graham and Smith lead a SWAT raid on Sakamura's house. He tries to flee in a sports car, but crashes and is killed.\n\nSmith learns that Sakamura had attempted to contact him about the missing disc, so he and Connor take the disc to an expert, Jingo Asakuma, who reveals that the disc has been digitally altered to implicate Sakamura.\n\nNakamoto is in the midst of sensitive negotiations for the acquisition of an American semiconductor company, with Senator John Morton, a guest at the party, abruptly changing his stance on a bill that would prevent the merger from going through. Suspecting his sudden shift is somehow related to the murder, Connor and Smith attempt to interview him at his campaign office, but without success. Upon returning to Smith's apartment, the duo find Sakamura alive and well. He reveals that he was being tailed that day by Tanaka, a Nakamoto security agent attempting to locate the original disc. Not wanting to be seen with Sakamura, Tanaka stole his sports car and committed suicide by crashing it. Sakamura gives Connor the original disc, but before he can leave, Lt. Graham arrives with Ishihara. Sakamura is killed fighting off Ishihara's men, and Smith is shot and left for dead, surviving only thanks to a bulletproof vest.\n\nAfter being interrogated, Smith is put on paid leave due to an ongoing investigation of an earlier corruption charge. Regrouping with Connor and Jingo, the three view the original surveillance footage, which shows Senator Morton performing erotic asphyxiation on Cheryl. Falsely believing he killed her, Morton changes his position on the regulation bill to stay in Nakamoto's good graces. After leaving the boardroom, the footage shows another figure approaching and killing Cheryl by strangulation.\n\nHoping to draw the killer out, Connor and Smith fax Morton stills of the footage showing his involvement in the murder. Morton contacts Ishihara, revealing the executive to be in on the cover-up, and then Morton commits suicide. Connor, Smith, and Jingo interrupt the merger negotiations to show Nakamoto President Yoshida the surveillance footage. Bob Richmond, an American lawyer working for Nakamoto, reveals himself as the killer and tries to run away, only to be killed by Sakamura's friends.\n\nYoshida maintains his and his colleagues innocence, quietly exiling Ishihara to a desk job back in Japan. Smith drives Jingo home, where she casts doubt on whether Richmond was really the murderer, or if he was simply taking the fall to protect someone higher up in the company.\n\n\n\"Rising Sun\" was released on 30 July 1993 in 1,510 theaters across the US. It grossed $15,195,941 (24.1% of total gross) on its opening weekend. During its run in theaters, the film grossed $63,179,523 (58.9%) in the US and $44,019,267 (41.1%) overseas for a worldwide total of $107,198,790. The film spent six weeks in the Top 10.\n\n, the film holds a 33% rating on Rotten Tomatoes based on 40 reviews.\n\nAt the time of the film's release, it generated some controversy and protest from Asian-Americans, including representatives of the Media Action Network for Asian Americans (MANAA), who felt the way the film depicted Japanese people was racist.\n\n"}
{"id": "1840876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840876", "title": "Benjamin Stone (Law &amp; Order character)", "text": "Benjamin Stone (Law &amp; Order character)\n\nBenjamin \"Ben\" Stone is a fictional character portrayed by Michael Moriarty in the TV drama \"Law & Order\". He was the Executive Assistant District Attorney for New York County until his resignation at the end of season four. He appeared in 88 episodes.\n\nStone works in the Manhattan District Attorney's office under Alfred Wentworth (in the pilot episode) and Adam Schiff (Steven Hill). He was raised in an Irish Catholic family. He was raised mostly by his Irish grandmother, his father having been an alcoholic. Stone is divorced and has a son, (Philip Winchester), who was the Deputy Chief of the Special Prosecutions Bureau in Chicago and was the Chief ADA of the Sex Crimes Bureau in New York,\nand a daughter, Pamela (Amy Korb).\n\nStone's prosecutorial methods are portrayed as being grounded in moral principles stemming from his Catholic faith. He is shown to be anti-abortion and opposed to the death penalty. He also is a strong advocate of social justice, having marched in the civil rights movement. It is implied that Stone, like actor Moriarty, is a Dartmouth College alumnus, with references to \"fraternity row\" and New Hampshire.\n\nStone became Executive Assistant DA in 1985 after convicting con artist and murderer Philip Swann (Željko Ivanek), who years later enters a civil suit against Stone when the validity of the conviction is called into question. (Swann is ultimately found guilty, however, and sent back to prison.) Stone's assistants have been Paul Robinette (Richard Brooks) and Claire Kincaid (Jill Hennessy).\n\nA strict, unyielding boss, Stone can be very difficult to work with; in the pilot episode, Sergeant Max Greevey (George Dzundza) and Detective Mike Logan (Chris Noth) intimate that Stone \"eats ADAs for lunch.\" Nevertheless, Stone is usually rather soft-spoken, and is fond of using harmless words like \"sir\" to convey his contempt for the people he prosecutes.\n\nStone makes his last appearance in the show in the episode \"Old Friends,\" the final episode of season four. The episode portrays a racketeering case in which the main witness Ann Madsen (Allison Janney), whose testimony Stone had secured by threatening to send her to prison, is murdered by the Russian Mafia. He feels responsible for her death and resigns from the DA's office. He is succeeded by Jack McCoy (Sam Waterston) as Executive ADA.\n\nStone is mentioned in the 1996 episode \"Custody\" as a possible witness against a judge. When his former assistant Paul Robinette, now a defense attorney, wants a judge to recuse himself for past comments showing bias against drug addicts and support for forced sterilization, Robinette threatens to subpoena Stone to testify about the comments, which both he and Stone heard the judge make. Upon hearing of the threat, Schiff informs McCoy that Stone \"is traveling in Europe, not available to testify at any hearing.\" However, the judge by this time has already declared himself \"unavailable\" to hear the case.\n\nThe opening scene of the \"\" episode \"The Undiscovered Country\" (aired in 2018) reveals that Stone has died. His successor, Jack McCoy, gives the eulogy at the funeral.\n\nThe SVU episode \"Dear Ben\" mentions Stone several times. The plot of the episode revolves around the cold case of a serial rapist whom Stone repeatedly attempted to track down and prosecute, to no avail. His son Peter later takes up the case brings the rapist to justice.\n\nStone's son is , formerly a Cook County Assistant State's Attorney and lead character on \"Chicago Justice\". Peter first appears on the \"Chicago P.D.\" episode \"Justice\", which is the backdoor pilot for \"Chicago Justice\". Peter also appears in season 19 of \"\", and eventually becomes the titular sex crimes bureau's ADA. In several episodes, Peter describes Ben as a distant father who neglected his family in favor of work.\n\nStone also had a daughter, Pamela, who is introduced in the \"SVU\" episode \"Send in the Clowns\". Pamela has paranoid schizophrenia, and has been hospitalized for most of her life. According to Peter, their father would visit Pamela once a week, and Peter has continued the visits since their father's death. She is murdered by sex traffickers in \"\".\n\nStone's departure from the series stemmed from actor Michael Moriarty's dispute with the network and U.S. Attorney General Janet Reno, who in 1993 began promoting legislation to limit portrayals of violence on television. Moriarty, who was outspoken against Reno and what he felt was government censorship, was scheduled to appear on NBC shows \"Today\" and \"Now with Tom Brokaw and Katie Couric\", but both ended up canceled. Moriarty had already taped his segment for \"Now\"; for his \"Today\" show appearance, during which he was scheduled to debate Senator Kent Conrad, he was replaced by FCC chairman Reed Hundt. Both appearances were scheduled to air on January 26, 1994. Moriarty submitted his resignation to producer Dick Wolf on January 25, 1994, and his departure was written into the series.\n"}
{"id": "1840883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840883", "title": "Syriac Patriarch of Antioch", "text": "Syriac Patriarch of Antioch\n\nSyriac Patriarch of Antioch may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1840886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840886", "title": "Cipha Sounds", "text": "Cipha Sounds\n\nCipha Sounds (born Luis Diaz on April 19, 1976 in Bronx, New York) is an American radio and television personality of Puerto Rican descent. He is mostly known for his work as a DJ, a VJ for MTV and as a comedian.\n\nIn 1996, Sounds started as an intern with Wildman Steve and DJ Riz of New York's Flip Squad, and eventually Riz asked Sounds to spin at clubs with him as an opening DJ. Later on, Lil' Kim asked him to go on tour with her. For a year and a half Sounds worked with Lil' Kim, touring the country and Europe. After he returned to the U.S., Hot 97's Funkmaster Flex asked Sounds to join his Big Dawg Pitbulls crew. He became a mix show DJ on Funkmaster Flex's evening show on Hot 97, and he eventually got his own show called \"Cipha Saturdays\" at the same station. On Sirius Satellite Radio's Shade 45 channel, he hosted a show called \"The Cipha Sounds Effect\" along with Angela Yee, DJ Wonder and the Emoticon Farragut Foster. He started the show in 2004, and his last show was on July 1, 2008. Before moving on from Shade 45, Sounds started The Juan Epstein Podcast which became the weekend morning show on Hot 97 with Peter Rosenberg. It aired every Sunday from 4am to 9am. The show was called The Cipha/Rosenberg Experience, and they were given a Saturday morning slot from 6am to 10am. HOT 97 later moved The Cipha/Rosenberg Experience to Mon-Fri 5am to 7am, which later grew to 5am to 10am. The HOT 97 Morning Show later added Ebro Darden and Laura Stylez. Cipha Sounds is known for being the first to play Rihanna, Rick Ross, and more on NYC Radio. When Angie Martinez left HOT 97 to move to POWER 105.1, Cipha took over her slot on Weekday afternoons. After months of growing tension, and less than 24 hours after he had criticized management on a podcast regarding his removal as interim host of the afternoon show, Cipha was fired from Hot 97. He was ultimately with the station for more than 17 years. It was announced on February 20, 2015, that Cipha Sounds had signed with ROC Nation \n\nOn December 17, 2010, Cipha Sounds stated on the air that \"the reason [he is] HIV negative is because [he doesn't] mess with Haitian girls\". Immediate outrage came from some in the Haitian community and others in New York to have him fired from Hot 97. He offered an apology shortly thereafter, remarking that it was simply \"a stupid, tasteless joke\" that was \"taken totally the wrong way\".\n\nThese remarks also drew criticism from other radio personalities namely Charlamagne Tha God, co-host of The Breakfast Club Power 105.1, in which he responded on-air by nominating Cipha Sounds for the show's \"Donkey of the Day\" (but instead for the \"Year\") and said:\n\n\"I'm from the south, so I know about hatred toward ethnic groups. So when he said that he reps Haitians heavy and he says 'sak pase' before all his parties, it was the equivalent to a racist red neck getting called out on being racist and saying to the people, I'm not racist, all my best friends are black. Any person who would throw hate at the Haitians at any time [soon after the Haiti earthquake], but especially at this moment and time...A person like this doesn't care about the people period...[Hot 97] 'so-called' suspended a guy during the holidays. He was gonna be off anyway! They don't care about the people, so why do we care about them?\"\n\nFrom 2003 to 2006, Sounds was a DJ for Comedy Central's \"Chappelle's Show\", for 19 episodes. In April 2006, he became the host of MTV's urban music video program \"Direct Effect\" which later became \"Sucker Free\".\n\nSounds has his own artist management company called Jack Move, Inc. The first artists that he managed were the R&B duo Nina Sky in 2004, with the hit single \"Move Ya Body\". He has worked as an A&R executive for Rawkus Records, Tommy Boy Records, and The Neptunes' record label, Star Trak Entertainment. In 2005, he became the senior vice president of Jay-Z's Roc-La-Familia label, but he left after becoming a VJ for MTV in 2006. Cipha is also part of Black Jays International, a label managed by rapper Kardinal Offishall. In 2006, Sounds and Solitair of the Black Jays became a hip-hop/R&B production duo.\n\nIn 2007, Sounds started a stand-up comedy series called \"Don't Get Gassed\", a monthly show at Carolines on Broadway (NYC), billed as a \"Def Comedy Jam\"-type show. He is also the creator of the improv show \"Take It Personal\" at Upright Citizens Brigade Theater East in New York. The show features hip hop artists telling true life stories, which then inspire scenes performed by a cast of improvisors known as \"A Tribe Called YES\". Cipha and Alicia Keys reportedly have an improv comedy show in development for VH1.\nHe also got passed at The Comedy Cellar in Greenwich Village, New York He also had a comedy series on Tidal. Since 2017 Sounds has hosted Laff Mobb's Laff Tracks on TruTv. Former \"Def Comedy Jam\" co-creator Bob Sumner is among \"Laff Mobb's\" executive producers.\n\nSounds was featured in the 2002 film \"25th Hour\", playing \"DJ Dusk\" and providing some original music.\n\n"}
