{"id": "1885280", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885280", "title": "Bangladeshi cricket team in England in 2005", "text": "Bangladeshi cricket team in England in 2005\n\nThe Bangladesh national cricket team toured England for the first time in 2005. Bangladesh had just come off their first ever Test series win, which was against Zimbabwe, but were still rooted to the bottom of the ICC Test Championship table. England, under Michael Vaughan's leadership, had moved to second in the Test table.\n\nThe Bangladeshis started their tour with first-class warm-up games against the British Universities, Sussex and Northamptonshire. They then played two Tests, and were humiliated by an innings in both of them, with neither game reaching lunch on the third day. The tour then moved on to one-day matches. Warm-up games were played against Derbyshire and Worcestershire before Bangladesh took on England and Australia in the tri-nations NatWest Series, where they pulled off a stunning victory over the world champions.\n\nThe tour started with a comfortable draw against British Universities at Fenner's, before stuttering to a disastrous innings defeat against Sussex and escaping with a draw in a rain-ravaged match against a second-string Northamptonshire. However, not even the horrible match at Sussex would have prepared them for what awaited in the first Test against England. Despite England not playing perfect cricket, they still won by an innings and 261 runs. The second Test was won by an innings and 27 runs, resulting in a 2-0 series victory for England as they headed into the one-day tri-series with Australia.\n\nBritish Universities drew with the Bangladeshis\n\nThe Bangladeshis started their tour of England with an easy warm-up game against British Universities. The Bangladeshis batted first at a chilly Fenner's, but with an unbeaten century from Javed Omar they finished the rain-affected first day on a comfortable 238 for 3, after being reduced to 99 for 3. The second day was also a successful one for the tourists. Omar finished on 167 and Mohammad Ashraful scored 102 as the Bangladeshis finished on 381. In reply, British Universities stuttered to 82 for 5, before Luke Parker and Josh Knappett steadied the ship, leaving the students on 190 for 5 at close, with a draw the most likely result on the third day.\n\nThe students finished their innings on 238 on the final day, and the Bangladeshis opted for batting practice, finishing on 246 for 4 declared. Overall, a pleasing first game for the Bangladeshis. (Cricinfo scorecard)\n\nSussex beat the Bangladeshis by an innings and 226 runs\n\nSussex recorded a big victory at Hove, smacking the Bangladeshi bowlers at will before bowling them out twice for a pittance, which didn't exactly give the Bangladeshis confidence a week before the first Test at Lord's. Michael Yardy was the star of the match, notching up 35 fours and two sixes in a towering 257 - the highest score of the English first class season so far - which led Sussex to 549 for 7 declared. In reply, Habibul Bashar got hit by a bouncer from Jason Lewry when on 22 not out, and thus had to retire, and things only went downhill from there. The Bangladeshis could only manage a total of 323 runs from two innings (127 and 196), with 16-year-old wicketkeeper Mushfiqur Rahim the only one who passed forty runs with a two-hour 63 in the second innings, before being stumped off a delivery by the Man of the Match, Yardy - who recorded his first career five-wicket haul, taking five for 83.\n\nNorthamptonshire drew with the Bangladeshis\n\nOn the first day at Northampton, Northamptonshire made 149 for 5 against the touring Bangladeshis. The tourists' bowlers lured the county batsmen into playing odd strokes to loose balls, but not Bilal Shafayat, who made 76 before mistiming one off left-arm spinner Enamul Haque. However, it was Anwar Hossain Monir who did the most damage, taking 3 for 67. The second day was wiped out by rain, which resulted in the third day becoming somewhat pointless - Anwar added the wicket of Matthew Friedlander to his tally as he finished with four for 113, while the Bangladeshis lost wickets quickly in their reply, crumbling to 105 for 5. However, 16-year-old prodigy Mushfiqur Rahim continued his good run of form, scoring 115 not out with 15 fours and a six to lift the Bangladeshis to 309 for 7 in their glorified nets session.\n\nMichael Vaughan won the toss and put Bangladesh in to bat at 10.30am on the first day at Lord's. The first ten overs of bowling by Steve Harmison and Matthew Hoggard were lacklustre, as neither mastered the early-morning swing and they bowled a wide line. A stronger side would have scored more runs in this period, by Bangladesh made only 31 before losing their first wicket. Bangladesh captain, Habibul Bashar then came and went with suicidal hoick when he was on three. The rest of the team succumbed quickly, often to bad balls as they failed to adjust to the English conditions. The English mixed the odd good length ball with the short and wide stuff, inducing edges through to the slips at regular intervals - although, admittedly, the Bangladeshis would never have been out if they'd tried to play a bit more defensively.\n\nJaved Omar was the pick of the batsmen, scoring 22 before being caught by Marcus Trescothick off the most accurate of the English bowlers, Simon Jones. With six batsmen out in single figures, only Aftab Ahmed looked in control, before he also edged Andrew Flintoff to slip. In the end, Bangladesh made just 108 in 38.2 overs, despite being boosted by 12 English no-balls - eight from Hoggard, four from Harmison. Few batsmen even displayed the standard practice of getting behind a swinging ball and playing with a straight bat, preferring instead to stay still and nudge at the ball.\n\nMarcus Trescothick and Andrew Strauss then batted to tea with composure, taking the boundaries off Test debutant Shahadat Hossain in particular, and the pair made 70 runs before tea - meaning that England were only 38 off with ten wickets in hand after two sessions. An hour after tea, England brought up the lead, with Strauss having notched his fifty despite looking slightly shaky against Anwar Hossain Monir bowling, and then being dropped on 51. Trescothick then made his fifty with a four off Mohammad Rafique. The opening partnership eventually was worth 148, as Strauss was nearly lbw on 69 with an inswinging ball on one ball and then finally lbw on the next, Mashrafe Mortaza getting rewards for his patient bowling.\n\nEngland, however, continued to paste the bowlers, although skipper Michael Vaughan was lucky on more than one occasion - the most notable when he was dropped by Mohammad Rafique off Rafique's own bowling. By stumps, however, the pair had added 40, and they continued on a sunny second day - less rusty, however, than they had been on the first day. It was all too embarrassing for Bangladesh, as Vaughan raced to 120 before being caught behind off Mashrafe. Four overs later, the patient Rafique finally got his reward, Khaled Mashud coming up with a magnificent catch to get Trescothick out six short of a double century. That was as good as it got for Bangladesh, though, as Ian Bell, Warwickshire's prodigy, made 65 not out, and Graham Thorpe ran runs everywhere to score 42 not out with only two boundaries, before Vaughan decided that enough was enough and declared with seven wickets in hand and a lead of 420 runs.\n\nBangladesh's reply was a sorry one. Yet again, they failed to play the short ball well enough, and lost five wickets - Simon Jones and Andrew Flintoff the main culprits, taking two each - for a miserable 65 before Khaled Mashud and Aftab Ahmed took some responsibility and guided them to stumps with 95 for 5. It was not to last, though. Only six balls into the third day, Hoggard bowled a good off-cutter to Aftab Ahmed, who failed to play it properly and was hit on the pads - out for a fine 32, Bangladesh's highest score in the Test series so far.\n\nSteve Harmison then bowled the next over from the Pavilion End, removing spinner Rafique for a duck on his second ball of the over as he was caught behind and then having Mortaza bowled as Mortaza missed the ball only to have it graze his pad and roll behind him to hit his leg stump. Bangladesh had lost three wickets for two runs in the space of nine balls, and Harmison nearly added another wicket to his tally as he hit Anwar Hossain Monir on the pad in front. However, umpire Hariharan wasn't convinced it was going to hit the stumps, and Harmison was denied the hat-trick.\n\nThe end looked to be even more abrupt than people could think before the third day had started. However, a no-ball-aided recovery and some fine batting from wicket-keeper Khaled Mashud, who surpassed Aftab Ahmed's score, sent the match into a slow-death period. Anwar Hossain and Khaled Mashud did, however, manage to put on 58 together for the ninth wicket, Bangladesh's best partnership of the match. Simon Jones eventually broke through the defences, though, as Anwar Hossain Monir got a standard thick edge to first slip Trescothick, and thus the ninth wicket fell - 156 for 9. An over later, Khaled Mashud was finally out, giving an awkward edge off Andrew Flintoff's bowling to Graham Thorpe at short leg and ending the innings on 159 all out - giving England an innings and 261 run win just before noon, half an hour before lunch, on the third day. Gareth Batty - England's spin-bowler, who came in to replace the injured Ashley Giles - was only mentioned on the official scorecard once, as he did not bat, did not bowl, and did not hold a catch. Trescothick was named man of the match for his 194. (Cricinfo scorecard)\n\nMichael Vaughan won the toss again, just like in the first Test, and put Bangladesh into bat. A thoroughly professional bowling performance from the England bowlers followed, with Harmison, playing at his home ground, making the most of the conditions to take 5 wickets as the clearly outclassed Bangladeshis succumbed for 104. Only Javed Omar and Khaled Mashud made it into double figures. In reply, England quickly overcame the deficit for the loss of just Andrew Strauss, the only English batter who averaged less than 80 in this Test series. By close on the first day England were 269 for 3, with pundits reckoning the game would not reach the third day.\n\nOn the second day, Ian Bell became the first Englishman to score 100 before lunch in a Test match for 70 years, the last one being Les Ames, as both Bell and Thorpe hit out ahead of the predicted lunchtime declaration, which happened with England on 447 for 3. What followed was what the series had been crying out for earlier: a spirited Bangladeshi performance with proper cricketing shots. Whilst some Bangladeshis did get out to wild shots, the senior players got behind the ball, selected which ball to play, and made the most of the aggressive field placings chosen by England to make partnerships and build innings.\n\nFirst out was Nafees Iqbal, caught behind for 15 with the score on 50. Iqbal was unlucky, as the video replays suggested the ball had bounced before going into Geraint Jones's gloves, but despite returning to the pitch to appeal to the umpires, Iqbal had to go. Opener Javed Omar, captain Habibul Bashar and Aftab Ahmed all made half-centuries as it was touch and go as to whether England would wrap it up in the two days. When the seventh wicket fell at 245 in the last over of normal play, it allowed England to claim the extra half-hour. But only one more wicket fell as Bangladesh restored some pride. England wrapped up the game within 20 minutes on the third day, but Bangladesh, albeit against an attacking field had made 316, 27 short of making the hosts bat again.\n\nEngland therefore won the two Test series 2–0, taking both matches by more than an innings. This was their fifth successive Test series win, and the first time that the English had won five successive Test series since 1971. With their first three innings all being over before the Bangladeshis made 200, the series was clearly England's, who consolidated their position at second in the ICC Test Championship table. Bangladesh remain bottom in tenth place. Afterwards England captain Michael Vaughan said, \"It's difficult to judge how much we've got out of these games because we've won so easily. We've not had those real tough-in sessions and fight-through sessions where we've lost a batch of wickets. We have had stages when we had to knuckle down but it has been easier than I expected. To win two Test matches in almost two days each is obviously quite an easy series victory.\" (Cricinfo scorecard)\n\nAfter a poor first-class section of the tour, Bangladesh were hoping things would improve on the one-day leg, particularly after their spirited second innings in the Second Test. However, their first warm-up match for the NatWest Series saw them heavily defeated by Derbyshire, but they recovered well to take a six-wicket win over Worcestershire. It was back to normal at The Oval, though, as their bowlers went astray and England cruised to a ten-wicket win.\n\nOn 18 June, Bangladesh defeated Australia by 5 wickets in the NatWest Series. Australia scored 249 in 50 overs. Bangladesh won with 4 balls to spare, after a century by Mohammad Ashraful. Bangladesh were knocked out of the tournament after three subsequent losses.\n\nDerbyshire beat the Bangladeshis by 6 wickets\n\nDerbyshire easily overcame the Bangladeshis in a day-night match at Derby. The Bangladeshis won the toss and chose to bat first against a Derbyshire side that was full-strength except for the injured Michael di Venuto. When Javed Omar, Nafees Iqbal and Rajin Saleh were out cheaply the tourists had fallen to 19 for 3. Tushar Imran and Habibul Bashar then gave some hope that a genuine target might be set when they put on 80 for the fourth wicket, a partnership that included 2 sixes from Tushar Imran. After that, the Bangladeshis lost wickets at regular intervals, finally being all out for 189 with 3.5 overs to spare. Just as Bangladesh's bowling lacked penetration in the Tests, so it lacked penetration against Derbyshire, with Jonathan Moss's 72 helping the hosts home with 11.5 overs and 6 wickets to spare. (Cricinfo scorecard)\n\nThe Bangladeshis beat Worcestershire by four wickets\n\nBangladesh recorded their first victory of their tour of England when they beat Worcestershire at The County Ground, Worcester. In a disciplined bowling effort, Nazmul Hossain took two early wickets, Worcestershire collapsed to 168 (despite Bangladesh giving up 33 wides and 6 no-balls), and in a slow, gritty chase, the Bangladeshis - guided by Habibul Bashar's 26 not out and 43 from Javed Omar, made it to the target with 14 overs to spare.\n\nAmid rains at The Oval, Jon Lewis had a stunning ODI debut for the English cricket team against Bangladesh, removing Javed Omar and Mohammad Ashraful with successive deliveries before taking out Nafees Iqbal in a good opening spell. Admittedly, it was aided by cloudy skies, which gave Lewis plenty of swing - his main threat - but it was still a decent return for the debutant. Steve Harmison was his usual erratic self, going for nine off the first five balls of an over before removing Tushar Imran with a ball that was gloved onto the stumps just before the end of 15 overs, making it 57 for 4. Habibul Bashar, the highest averaging Bangladesh batsman, gloved a short ball from Harmison to a diving Geraint Jones, and he was on his way for 19 - Bangladesh now 72 for 5. Lewis actually bowled his ten overs straight, ending with three for 32, as the last over was just an exercise in defending from the visitors. Wicketkeeper Khaled Mashud was next to go, attempting a pull off a poor ball down the legside, for 1. However, a solid recovery from Aftab Ahmed and Mohammad Rafique slowly gave the Bangladeshis a chance, before rain intervened again after 30 overs.\n\nComing back from the rain break, Aftab and Rafique continued to smack the England bowlers, particularly Paul Collingwood, but eventually Rafique gave a chance to Harmison at long leg and the Bangladeshis were seven down for 152. And only a couple of overs later, Aftab was out in a close run-out decision, for 51. Khaled Mahmud then went for a golden duck, playing a poor shot to a short ball from Harmison, his fourth wicket of the day. However, Nazmul Hossain and Mashrafe Mortaza frustrated the English bowlers, with Darren Gough eventually ending the resistance as he got Nazmul for 6 to end the innings for 190. However, the Bangladeshis offered no resistance in the bowling, as only Mortaza was hit for less than six an over. Marcus Trescothick hit his ninth One Day International century off just 76 balls, Andrew Strauss supplied with a level-headed 82, and ten extras added up to a total of 192. The winning runs - a four from Strauss - were hit inside 25 overs and with all ten wickets to spare.\n\nPerhaps the biggest upset in the history of limited overs cricket, Mashrafe Mortaza shocked the Sophia Gardens crowd when he had Adam Gilchrist plumb on the second ball of the second ODI, taking the first Australian wicket without a run yet on the scoreboard - and it was to set the tone of the match. Most people would have expected Australia to swamp Bangladesh, especially after the 10-wicket defeat the Bangladeshi Tigers endured in the opening match with England, but a maiden from Mortaza gave them some hope, at least. Things looked to be going the right way for Australia when Matthew Hayden took a boundary off Tapash Baisya, but another maiden followed, and in the sixth over Ricky Ponting padded up to Tapash Baisya - resulting in an lbw decision given, and Australia were - incredibly - 9 for 2. Cautious batting from Hayden and Damien Martyn followed, but some expensive bowling from Baisya relinquished the initiative, as Australia recovered somewhat. They survived through 15 overs, Hayden being caught off a no-ball from Tapash, but in the 16th, he was bowled by Nazmul Hossain for 37 off an inside edge, just as Hayden were looking to get himself in. Some economical bowling from Mohammad Rafique who bowled ten overs for 31 runs, along with excellent bowling from Mortaza at the death, resulted in Australia finishing on 249 for 5, losing Martyn to Baisya for 77 and Michael Clarke to the same man for 54. In fact, Michael Hussey with 31 not out off 21 balls and Simon Katich with 36 not out off 23 ensured that they got a competitive target.\n\nThat was not all, however. The chase began very sedately, only Tushar Imran looking to take runs as he smashed Brad Hogg about, but Hogg got his revenge when Tushar was out for 24, lofting to Katich. Earlier, Nafees Iqbal had gone for 8, and with Javed Omar out as the third man to fall, for 19 off 51 balls, it looked to be business as usual for Bangladesh. But this match had more tricks up its sleeve. Hogg and Clarke leaked runs like a drain, six wides were bowled, and Mohammad Ashraful showed another glimpse of why he's been called Bangladesh's finest batsman. As he made the second ODI hundred in the Bangladesh team's history, he forged a massive 130-run partnership with Habibul Bashar, and had a great two hours at the crease (although dropped on 54) - before picking out Jason Gillespie at long on to be out for exactly 100. Bangladesh still needed 23 runs off 17 balls, but Aftab Ahmed continued his fine form from the Oval match with England, as he first took a leg bye off Ashraful, then gave the strike to Rafique, who smashed a cover driven four before taking another legbye. A four and a dot-ball finished a 10-run over, meaning that Bangladesh now needed only 13 off 12 balls. A good over from McGrath followed, as he conceded only six runs - including an edged four from Rafique. With the last over, Bangladesh needed seven runs, and Ahmed swung the first ball of the over to midwicket for six. Thus, it became a formality - Bangladesh won with four balls and five wickets to spare, almost convincing in today's cricket, and the result meant that the Aussies needed a victory over England at Bristol the following day to have any chance of winning the group stage.\n\nMichael Vaughan chose to bat first on a good batting wicket at Trent Bridge, as England looked to set a massive target and keep up their good form. After a bit of a shaky start, with Andrew Strauss being dropped, but Marcus Trescothick smashed boundaries to all corners as Bangladesh's bowlers were made to look distinctly ordinary. Trescothick made a 51-ball fifty, before taking Tapash apart in the 15th over, as England cruised to 128 for 0 after 15 overs. A couple of overs later, Nazmul Hossain made the breakthrough, a massive smash ending in Shahriar Nafees' hands, as Trescothick hit an entertaining 85.\n\nThe new batsman Vaughan looked shaky at the crease, and eventually finished with an eight-ball duck, giving an inside edge to Nazmul's bowling. Andrew Flintoff was next to fall, giving a catch off Aftab Ahmed to skipper Habibul Bashar for 17, but good recuperation from Strauss and Paul Collingwood kept the run rate well over six, and Strauss could hit a 100-ball century with a single off Rafique in the fortieth over, and with the next ball Collingwood hit his fifty with a boundary. After ten over, England were 270 for 3, and Strauss and Collingwood decided to have some fun. The next nine overs went for 116 runs, Nazmul getting Strauss with the second last ball of the innings for 152 - England's second highest ODI score, and their highest since 1983. Paul Collingwood made 112 not out as well - only his second ODI century - to propel England to 391 for 4, the second highest ODI score of all time.\n\nChris Tremlett, England's ODI debutant, started well with good pace - near 140 km/h - while Jon Lewis served up full tosses and wides from the other end. In the tenth over, Tremlett got his due reward, first having Shahriar Nafees gone with an inside edge and then followed up with having Tushar Imran caught behind for a golden duck. Mohammad Ashraful was then given another life, misreading a ball from Tremlett which ended up on the stumps - incredibly, the bails stayed on, so Ashraful survived. The next 20 balls he faced were duly dispatched for runs - he particularly took a liking to Steve Harmison, who conceded more in 17 balls today than in the entire match against Australia - and he made the fastest ODI fifty by a Bangladeshi off just 21 balls. He looked to be on his way to the fifth-fastest ODI century, having hit 94 off 51 balls, but eventually hit one expansive stroke too many as he was bowled by Collingwood.\n\nThat calmed the nerves of the England team - after 26 overs, Bangladesh required ten an over for the last 24 overs with seven wickets in hand and Javed Omar and Habibul Bashar - both with a batting strike rate which equated to less than four an over - at the crease. The only question was whether the Bangladeshis could steal a bonus point from the English, which looked unlikely as Collingwood grabbed two quick wickets and reduced them to 180 for 5, and in the next over he removed Javed Omar as the Bangladeshi got an inside edge. Collingwood eventually finished with six for 31, taking Khaled Mashud and Mashrafe Mortaza as well, Mortaza bowled with the last ball of his 10-over-spell - to become the first person in ODI history to make a century and take a six-wicket-haul. Harmison, however, the hero of the last game, had to endure dropped catches off his bowling as he conceded 55 runs from eight overs, but he was not needed to bowl all ten as Tremlett removed Mohammad Rafique for 19, ending the Bangladeshi innings on 223 - 168 runs behind England. Overall, England could take some good batting form from their openers and a stunning debut from Tremlett - who looked much more impressive than Lewis in this game - out of the match, while Bangladesh could be happy with the swashbuckling Ashraful and Nazmul's three wickets.\n\nAustralia recorded a thumping 10-wicket win over Bangladesh to level their head-to-head record in the NatWest Series to 1–1. Under leaden skies at Old Trafford, Ricky Ponting made the wise decision and chose to bowl, and short-balls from Brett Lee immediately had the Bangladeshis worried. They survived six overs without loss before Javed Omar was trapped by an in-swinger for a 20-ball 3. Tushar Imran was next to fall to Lee, and many expected a procession to begin, but Shahriar Nafees and Mohammad Ashraful gave the crowd a treat with some special strokes. Ashraful had two top-edged sixes, as Lee was dispatched for 20 runs in the eleventh over. By the drinks break after 15 overs, Bangladesh were 76 for 2, having added 53 from the last 39 balls. Ponting, however, brought on the spinners Brad Hogg and Andrew Symonds, who both got a fair amount of turn out of the Old Trafford pitch, and Symonds had Shahriar bowled for 47 with a yorker that he played late to. The next ball, he got the out-of-form captain Habibul Bashar, and the wickets began to tumble quickly. Symonds got five wickets for 18 runs, Hogg three for 29, Bangladesh collapsed from 137 for 6 (when Khaled Mashud was bowled by Hogg) to 139 all out in three overs, as Ashraful went for 58 and no one else really offering any resistance to the slow Australian bowlers.\n\nBangladesh had Adam Gilchrist in some trouble early on, especially through fast bowler Mashrafe Mortaza, who had him beaten several times in the opening overs, but Matthew Hayden was imposing at the crease, punishing the inevitable bad balls from Nazmul Hossain who was taken off after three overs, having conceded 29 runs. However, no one could stop the rot, Hayden and Gilchrist taking runs at will after a while to see Australia to the target inside 20 overs. Australia thus closed the gap to England to three points, as the situation indicated by the ICC rankings before the series became more and more possible - that Bangladesh were to be whipping boys and England and Australia would go through.\n\nA lacklustre effort from England's opening bowlers was still enough to beat Bangladesh and cement a final between England and Australia in the NatWest Series. Habibul Bashar won the toss and batted first, and it looked to pay off as Shahriar Nafees, Javed Omar and Tushar Imran milked runs off the English opening bowlers. Especially Simon Jones - returning from injury - was erratic, bowling eight wides in the match, while Darren Gough was just smashed around the park. However, Jones got the early wicket when Nafees cut it to Marcus Trescothick at slip - before Bangladesh rebuilt again. After 16 overs, they were 82 for 1, and looked to build a sizable target.\n\nHowever, their opener Javed - whose ODI strike rate was just above 50 at the time - slowed things down, and a double blow from Andrew Flintoff - first getting Tushar with an inside edge to have him bowled, and then Mohammad Ashraful for a golden duck - Bodyline-style. That set the Bangladeshis back, and patient bowling from Ashley Giles and Paul Collingwood resulted in the run-out of captain Habibul for 10. With Aftab Ahmed falling for 15, it was up to wicketkeeper Khaled Mashud who did an excellent job in lifting Bangladesh past 200 - taking a particular liking to Gough as he made 42 not out off 43 balls. Flintoff got two more wickets in the innings, finishing with four for 29, as he had Javed bowled for 81 and Mashrafe bowled for 1.\n\nEngland got off to a very good start, with Trescothick and Andrew Strauss continuing in the vein of previous matches against the Bangladeshis, and pairing up for 99 runs for the first wicket. Trescothick was eventually out for 43 to Mohammad Rafique, giving a catch behind, but despite the spinners taking wickets, they were also expensive, Strauss in particular taking them for runs as he was bowled on 98 - attempting a sweep to bring up the win, the bonus point and his own century. Instead, the win was brought up very anticlimactically, Geraint Jones facing three balls before Manjural Islam Rana served up a wide. A disappointment for England would be that Flintoff still struggled with his batting form, only making 22, though in the match it mattered little - England still took the bonus point and qualified for the final, making the last two games redundant for them.\n\nThe last game of the round robin of the NatWest Series was, as expected, won by the Australians. However, it summed up the improvement Bangladesh had made over the tour of England. In the first international, they were rolled over meekly by a no-balling, rusty English side - twice. In the last, Brett Lee and Jason Gillespie put the pressure on early, and with the aid of Shane Watson had them on the reels with 75 for 5. Yet, Bangladesh recovered to post 250 for 8, and were theoretically in with a chance for most of the game. Yet, they started very, very shakily. Javed Omar was dropped by Matthew Hayden in the third over, only to be out to Jason Gillespie in the next for an eight-ball duck - a disappointing end to a fine series for the Bangladeshi. Brett Lee had both Tushar Imran and Mohammad Ashraful beaten with full deliveries, Bangladesh were 19 for three wickets down - an all too familiar position.\n\nA quickfire 30 from captain Habibul Bashar helped to take away some of the jitters, as Bashar took 16 runs off a Brett Lee over, but a bouncer from Shane Watson wasn't successfully evaded, and Adam Gilchrist could take the catch. Aftab Ahmed had to settle for 7, and it was down to the last two recognised batsmen - Shahriar Nafees, who had quietly moved his way to 25 not out, and wicketkeeper Khaled Mashud. However, the two put on a nigh-on faultless partnership of 94, taking their time to consolidate. Shahriar eventually departed for 75, edging a short ball from Shane Watson to the wicket-keeper - the usual method of dismissal. However, their partnership had given Bangladesh hope, and Mohammad Rafique took advantage with a six off Watson. Despite two more wickets falling - Rafique and Khaled Mahmud (caught at mid-on on the last ball) - Bangladesh had recovered to 250 for 8, which could potentially be tricky to chase.\n\nMashrafe Mortaza was hit around for twelve in the first over, however, and the momentum swung towards Australia. Mortaza hit back by inducing an outside edge from Matthew Hayden to wicketkeeper Mashud for 1, and four balls later a ball from Mortaza hit captain Ricky Ponting on the pads - but too high to be given out. Gilchrist and Ponting paired up well, however, even though Gilchrist rode his luck with a few drives in the air, but in the tenth over he gave a somewhat dubious catch to slip Khaled Mahmud, and was gone for 45 - all while rain threatened to damage the match. However, the weather gradually improved, along with Australia's chances - after 15 overs, they were 83 for three, having lost Damien Martyn for 9, but only needed slightly less than five an over. However, economical bowling and riskless batting from Australia saw Bangladesh in with a chance again. Ponting and Michael Clarke let the run rate go to more than six an over, but Khaled Mahmud's bowling at the death to Andrew Symonds left a bit to be desired, as Australia could take the necessary runs and win by eleven balls and six wickets to spare. A Bangladeshi - Shahriar Nafees - got the Man of the Match award, possibly for his effort to keep the match exciting after Bangladesh had crumbled to 75 for 5.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1885281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885281", "title": "Harlem Shuffle", "text": "Harlem Shuffle\n\n\"Harlem Shuffle\" is an R&B song written and originally recorded by the duo Bob & Earl in 1963. \nIn 1986 it was covered by The Rolling Stones on their album \"Dirty Work\".\n\nThe original single, arranged by Gene Page, peaked at on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 chart and on the \"Cash Box\" chart. The record was a commercial failure when first released in the UK in 1963, but on reissue in 1969 peaked at . It was released on Marc Records, a subsidiary of Titan Records. Barry White stated in a 1995 interview with the \"Boston Herald\" that, despite some claims to the contrary, he had no involvement with \"Harlem Shuffle\", though Page and White later worked extensively together.\n\nIn 2003, the original Bob & Earl version of the song was ranked by the music critics of \"The Daily Telegraph\" on their list of the \"50 Best Duets Ever\". The song was used in the 1989 comedy-drama \"Shag\" and the 2017 Edgar Wright film \"Baby Driver\".\n\nThe Rolling Stones' cover version, with Bobby Womack on backing vocals, appeared on their 1986 album \"Dirty Work\", and went to #5 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 chart, and #13 in the UK. Keith Richards had been looking for songs to possibly include on the album and had been working up songs with Ronnie Wood and Womack while waiting for Jagger to return to the studio in Paris after doing promo work on his solo album. To Richards' surprise, Jagger liked the feel and cut the vocals quickly. It became the first cover song the Stones had released as an opening single off a new studio album since 1965. It opens with:\n\nIn 1986, a 12\" extended single mix of the song was released. One side contained the \"London Mix\" and ran 6:19. The other side had a \"New York Mix\" and ran 6:35. Both mixes were variations of the 7\" mix. The \"New York Mix\" is available on the CD, \"Rarities 1971–2003\", although it has been edited to 5:48. Both full-length 12\" versions can be found on Disc 25 of \"Singles 1971–2006\".\n\nThe Rolling Stones produced an accompanying four-minute music video, which combined live-action and animation. The live-action was directed by famous animation director Ralph Bakshi and the animation was directed by future \"The Ren & Stimpy Show\" creator John Kricfalusi. Other animators who also worked on the video included Lynne Naylor, Jim Smith, Bob Jaques, Vicky Jenson, Pat Ventura and two other unknown animators. \n\nThe Rolling Stones\n\nAdditional personnel\n\nRemix\n\nA version by The Traits from the fall of 1966 reached #94 on the U.S. \"Billboard\" Hot 100 and #91 on \"Cash Box\".\n\nThe song's opening horn section was sampled by American rap group House of Pain for their breakthrough single \"Jump Around\" in 1992.\n"}
{"id": "1885284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885284", "title": "Tradecraft", "text": "Tradecraft\n\nTradecraft, within the intelligence community, refers to the techniques, methods and technologies used in modern espionage (spying) and generally, as part of the activity of intelligence. This includes general topics or techniques (dead drops, for example), or the specific techniques of a nation or organization (the particular form of encryption (encoding) used by the National Security Agency, for example).\n\n\n\n\nIn the books of such authors as thriller writer Grant Blackwood, espionage writer Tom Clancy, and spy novelists Ian Fleming and John le Carré, characters frequently engage in tradecraft, e.g., making or retrieving items from \"dead drops\", \"dry cleaning\", and wiring, using, or sweeping for intelligence gathering devices, such as cameras or microphones hidden in the subjects' quarters, vehicles, clothing, or accessories.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1885286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885286", "title": "Cladophora", "text": "Cladophora\n\nCladophora is a genus of reticulated filamentous Ulvophyceae (green algae). The genus \"Cladophora\" contains many species that are very hard to tell apart and classify, mainly because of the great variation in their appearances, which is affected by habitat, age and environmental conditions. Unlike \"Spirogyra\" the filaments of \"Cladophora\" branch and do not undergo conjugation. There are two multicellular stages in its life cycle - a haploid gametophyte and a diploid sporophyte - which look highly similar. The only way to tell the two stages apart is to either count their chromosomes, or examine their offspring. The haploid gametophyte produces haploid gametes by mitosis and the diploid sporophyte produces haploid spores by meiosis. The only visible difference between the gametes and spores of \"Cladophora\" is that the gametes have two flagella and the spores have four. The \"Cladophora\" species can be a major nuisance causing major alteration to benthic conditions linked particularly with increased phosphorus loading.\n\n\"Cladophora\" balls are formed from the filaments of the alga which are photosynthetic. Large numbers of these balls were thrown ashore in Devon, England. They had an average diameter of 2.5 cm and several million balls were found forming a layer.\n\nThis is not to be confused with marimo, though formerly part of \"Cladophora\", is now called \"Aegagropila linnaei\".\n\nIn Laos, \"Cladophora\" spp. (ໄຄ \"river weed\" or more precisely ໄຄຫີນ \"rock river weed\") are commonly eaten as a delicacy and usually known in English under the name \"Mekong weed\". The algae grow on underwater rocks and thrive in clear spots of water in the Mekong river basin. They are harvested 1 to 5 months a year and most often eaten in dry sheets (ໄຄແຜ່ນ kaipen -kháy sheets-), similar to Crispy Chinese Seaweed or Japanese nori, though much cruder in their format. Luang Prabang's speciality is dry khai with sesame (kaipen), while Vang Vieng is famous for its roasted kháy sheets. They can be eaten in strips as an appetizer, with a meal or as a snack with Beer Lao. Luang Prabang kháy sheets kaipen are the most readily available form of Mekong weed and are famous throughout the country and in the neighbouring Isaan, though difficult to find beyond Vientiane. Mekong weed can also be eaten raw, in soups, or cooked as in a Lao \"amok\" preparation called ຫມົກໄຄ .\n\nThe genus \"Cladophora\" is cosmopolitan and accordingly infestations cannot often be regarded logically as being invasive. Where they occur they may at various times be seen as beneficial, as a nuisance, or an outright pest.\n\nModest growth of \"Cladophora\" is generally harmless; the growth is an important food for many fish and other aquatic animals, as a buffer for the sequestration of nutrients in the water body and for protection of some aquatic organisms from solar ultraviolet radiation.\n\nWhere \"Cladophora\" becomes a pest is generally where special circumstances cause such drastic overgrowth that algal blooms develop and form floating mats. Typical examples include where hypertrophication or high mortality of rival organisms produce high concentrations of dissolved phosphorus. Extensive floating mats prevent circulation that is necessary for the aeration of deeper water and, by blocking the light, they kill photosynthesising organisms growing beneath. The mats interfere with the fishing industry by clogging nets and preventing the use of lines. Where they wash ashore the masses of rotting material reduce shoreline property values along water bodies such as the Great Lakes in the United States.\n\nQuagga mussel populations have increased tremendously during the same time frame as the blooming of \"Cladophora\", though their ecological relationships are not yet clear and may be complex.\n\nSpecies include:\n\n\"Aegagropila linnaei\" (marimo) was formerly placed here as \"Cladophora aegagropila\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1885290", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885290", "title": "Battle of Kerch Strait (1774)", "text": "Battle of Kerch Strait (1774)\n\nThese battles took place during the Russo-Turkish War, 1768-1774, on 20 June and 9 July (Old Style) 1774 south of Kerch, Crimea.\n\nOn 20 June an Ottoman force of 5 battleships, 9 frigates and 26 galleys and xebecs surprised a Russian force, under Vice-Admiral Senyavin, of 3 frigates, 4 16-gun vessels, 2 bombs and 3 small craft and tried to cut it off. The Russians anchored just outside the Kerch Strait and sailed toward Kerch the next day.\n\nOn 9 July, the Ottomans, needing to destroy the Russian ships so their land army could cross the Kerch Strait, attacked, but abandoned the effort after it was found that the Russian bombs had a greater range. The Ottoman force that day consisted of 6 battleships, 7 frigates, 1 bomb and 17 galleys and xebecs.\n"}
{"id": "1885293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885293", "title": "Faravahar", "text": "Faravahar\n\nThe Faravahar (Persian: فروهر‎), also known as Fravahar, Farohar and Farre Kiyâni (فر کیانی), is one of the most well-known symbols of Iran (Persia), and Zoroastrianism, the primary religion of Iran before the Muslim conquest of Iran, and of Iranian nationalism. There are various interpretations of what the faravahar symbolizes, and there is no universal consensus except to note that it does not represent the fravashi.\n\nThe Faravahar is one of the best known symbols of Iran and is often worn as pendant among Iranians, including Zoroastrians and Kurds and has become a secular national and cultural symbol.\n\nThe New Persian word is read as \"forouhar\" or \"faravahar\" (pronounced as \"furōhar\" in Old Persian). The Middle Persian forms were \"frawahr\" (Book Pahlavi: plwʾhl, Manichaean: prwhr), \"frōhar\" (recorded in Pazend as ; it is a later form of the previous form), and \"fraward\" (Book Pahlavi: plwlt', Manichaean: frwrd), which was directly from Old Persian \"*fravarti-\". The Avestan language form was \"fravaṣ̌i\" ().\n\nThe faravahar was depicted on the tombs of Achaemenid kings, such as Darius the Great () and Artaxerxes III (). The symbol was also used on some of the coin mints of the \"frataraka\" of Persis in the late 3rd and early 2nd BC centuries. Even after the Arab conquest of Iran, Zoroastrianism continued to be part of Iranian culture. Throughout the year, festivities are celebrated such as Nowruz, Mehregan, and Chaharshanbe Suri which relate to Zoroastrian festivals and calendar. These are remnants of Zoroastrian traditions. From the start of the 20th century, the faravahar icon found itself in public places and became a known icon among Iranians. The Shahnameh by Ferdowsi is Iran's national epic and contains stories (partly historical and partly mythical) from pre-Islamic Zoroastrian times. The tomb of Ferdowsi (built early 1930), which is visited by numerous Iranians every year, contains the faravahar icon as well.\n\nWhilst being used by both modern day Zoroastrians and Persians, it is important to note the symbol is neither Zoroastrian nor Persian in its origin. It originates as an Mesopotamian Assyrian depiction of the wing deity Ashur. After the Achaemenian dynasty, the image of the farohar was no longer present in Persian art or architecture. The Parthians, Sassanians and Islamic kings that followed did not use the image. It was not until the 21st century, over 2000 years later, that the symbol re-emerged thanks to the work of Parsi scholar, Jamshedji Maneckji Unvala who published two articles in 1925 and 1930.\n\nUnvala's work was discredited by Irach Jehangir Sorabji Taraporewala, who refuted the idea that the winged figure represented Ahura Mazda. Taraporewala suggested that the figures used in Persian reliefs were meant to depict khvarenah or royal glory to reflect the perceived divine empowerment of kings, and, therefore, has no true spiritual meaning. This view was later supported by Alireza Shapour Shahbazi and Mary Boyce.\n\nThe Sun Throne, the imperial seat of Iran, has visual implications of the \"Farahavar\". The sovereign would be seated in the middle of the throne, which is shaped like a platform or bed that is raised from the ground. This religious-cultural symbol was adapted by the Pahlavi dynasty to represent the Iranian nation. In modern Zoroastrianism, one of the interpretations of the faravahar is that it is a representation of the human soul and its development along with a visual guide of good conduct. Another popular interpretation is that it is a visual representation of a Fravashi, though Fravashis are described in Zoroastrian literature as being feminine. One of the most prevalent views in academia as to the meaning of the faravahar is that it represents Khvarenah, the divine power and royal glory. Although there are a number of interpretations of the individual elements of the symbol, most are recent interpretations and there is still debate as to its meaning.\n\nAfter the Islamic Revolution of 1979, the Lion and Sun, which was part of Iran's original national flag, was banned by the government from public places in order to prevent people from being reminded of life prior to the revolution. Nevertheless, faravahar icons were not removed and as a result, the faravahar icon became a national symbol for Iranians, and it became tolerated by the government as opposed to the Lion and Sun. The winged discs has a long history in the art, religion, and culture of the ancient Near and Middle East, being about 4000 years old in usage and noted as also symbolizing Ashur, Shamash, and other deities.\n\n"}
{"id": "1885299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885299", "title": "Ahsan Manzil", "text": "Ahsan Manzil\n\nAhsan Manzil () was the official residential palace and seat of the Nawab of Dhaka. The building is situated at Kumartoli along the banks of the Buriganga River in Dhaka, Bangladesh. Construction was started in 1859 and was completed in 1872. It was constructed in the Indo-Saracenic Revival architecture. It has been designated as a national museum.\n\nIn Mughal era, there was a garden house of Sheikh Enayet Ullah, the landlord of Jamalpur Porgona (district), in this place. Sheikh Enayet Ullah was a very charming person. He acquired a very big area in Kumortuli (Kumartuli) and included it in his garden house. Here he built a beautiful palace and named it \"Rongmohol\" (Rangmahal). He used to enjoy here keeping beautiful girls collected from the country and abroad, dressing them with gorgeous dresses and expensive ornaments. There is a saying that, the foujdar of Dhaka (representative of mughal emperor) was attracted to one of the beautiful girls. He invited Sheikh Enayet Ullah to a party one night and killed him in a conspiracy when he was returning home. That girl also committed suicide in anger and sorrow. There was a grave of Sheikh Enayet Ullah in the north-east corner of the palace yard which was ruined in the beginning of the 20th century.\n\nProbably in the period of Nawab Alibardi Khan around 1740 century, Sheikh Moti Ullah, the son of Sheikh Enayet Ullah, sold the property to the French traders. There was a French trading house beside this property. The trading house became wealthier after purchasing this property. In that time, French traders could do business here without paying any taxes by a decree from the emperor Aurangzeb.\nIn that time, the French became very wealthy by doing business here in competition with the English and other European companies. They made a big palace and dug a pond for sweet water in the newly purchased property. The pond still exists in the compound of Ahsan Manzil which was called \"Les Jalla\" in that time. In the English-French war, French got defeated and all their properties were captured by the English. On 22 June 1757, the French left the trading house with a fleet of 35 boats from the river station of Buriganga in front of Kumartuli.\n\nIn 1785, the French transferred the property to a French tradesman named Mr. Champigni, and retaken it at 1801. According to Paris agreement of 1814, the French claimed all their left properties at Dhaka, and in 1827 the property was again returned to the French. For the increasing power of the English, the French was forced to leave subcontinent. They decided to sell all their properties in Dhaka. So in 1830, the trading house of Kumartuli was purchased by the established landlord of Dhaka, Khwaja Alimullah.\n\nAfter some renovation work, the trading house became the residence of Khwaja Alimullah. In his time, a stable and a family mosque was added in the compound. After his death, his son Khwaja Abdul Ghani made a great flourish to the property, and named it \"Ahsan Manzil\" after his son Khwaja Ahsanullah. In the east side of the old building, he made a new building with a different design, and also done great renovation work to the old building. Since then, the old building was called \"Ondor Mohol\" and the new building was called \"Rong mohol\".\n\nIn the evening of 7 April 1888, a devastating tornado hit Dhaka city causing great damage. Ahsan Manzil was severely damaged and abandoned. An English engineer from Kolkata arrived here to examine the palace. He gave opinion that except for the \"Rangmahal\", all the other parts of the palace would have to be reconstructed. So Khwaja Abdul Ghani and his son Khwaja Ahsanullah turned their full attention to rebuild the palace. Both of the buildings were reconstructed during that time with a new design and supervised by the local engineer Gobinda Chandra Roy.\n\nThe old French building was reconstructed to a two storied building keeping similarity to the Rangmahal. A gangway was made with wood connecting the first floors of the two buildings. The most beautiful thing made in this time was the dome, which made the palace so beautiful.\n\nAfter the death of Khwaja Ahsanullah in 1901, the glory of Ahsan Manzil was ended. His successors could not continue the glory because of the internal family quarrel. They rented different parts of the palace to tenants, who actually made it a slum. In 1952, govt. acquired the property and left in supervision of the Dhaka Nawab court. In 1985, Dhaka National Museum acquired the property and made it a museum following a massive restoration programme which utilised historic photographs of the property.\n\nAhsan Manzil is one of the most significant architectural monuments of Bangladesh. The building structure was established on a raised platform of 1 meter, the two-storied palace measures 125.4m by 28.75m. The height of the ground floor is 5 meters and the height of the first floor is 5.8 meters. The thickness of the walls of the palace is about 0.78 meters. There are porticos of 5 meters height on the northern and southern sides of the palace. The building has a broad front-facing the Buriganga River. On the river side, an open spacious stairway leads right up to the second portal and on their stands the grand triple- arched portals. There was once a fountain in the garden in front of the stairs which does not exist today. All along the north and the south side of the building run spacious verandahs with an open terrace projected in the middle.\n\nThe palace Ahsan Manzil is divided into two parts: the eastern side and the western side. The eastern building with the dome is called the Rangmahal and the western side with the living rooms is called Andarmahal. The high octagonal dome is placed on the central round room. There is a large drawing room, card room, library, state room and two other guest rooms are located on the east side of the palace. The ballroom, the Hindustani room and few residential rooms are situated on the western side. A beautiful vaulted artificial ceiling, made of wood, decorates the drawing room and the Jalsaghar. A splendid dining hall and few smaller rooms are placed on the west part. The floors of the dining and Darbar Halls are decorated with white, green and yellow colored ceramic tiles. The famous store room, where the valuables of the Nawabs used to be stored, was in the middle of the five rooms located in the western half of the ground floor. Along with those rooms a Darbar Hall or assembly hall and a chest room is also place there.\n\nThere are attractive wooden stairs in the room that is attached to the north of the domed room. The balusters were ornamented with vine leaves made of iron along the railing of the stairs. The wooden ceiling of the room, decorated with geometric designs, is very elegant. The verandas and rooms are covered with marble. The doorways are placed within semicircular arches. The inner doors had multi-colored glasses. Wooden beams supported the roof of these rooms. The architecture and the decoration is one of a kind in whole Bangladesh.\n\nThe construction of the famous dome of the Ahsan Mazil, which is at the center of the palace, took a lot tedious planning. The square room on the ground floor was built with a round shape and brickworks were done around the corners. To give the room an octagonal shape, squinches were given around the roof corners. The eight corners of the octagon was slanted gradually to make the dome look like the bud of a lotus ( kumud kali). The peak of this dome is 27.13 m above the ground.\nAhsan Manzil was severely damaged during the tornado that occurred on 7 April 1888.the western block of Andermahal was completely demolished and later it was entirely rebuilt. The present day dome, which is situated on the top, was built during the time of reconstruction. This place was also damaged during the earthquake of 1897 but Nawab Khwaja Ahsanullah repaired the whole place again.\n\nIn 1874, Lord Northbrook, Governor General of India attended an evening function in the palace when he came to lay the foundation of a water works installed by Nawab Abdul Ghani. In 1888, Lord Dufferin also accepted the hospitality offered at Ahsan Manzil. In 1904 Lord Curzon, on a visit to East Bengal, stayed in this palace on 18 and 19 February to win public support for the proposed Partition of Bengal.\n\nAhsan Manzil, an architectural treasure, is a witness to many historical events of Bangladesh. From the last part of the 19th century to the initial years of Pakistan, the Muslim leadership of East Bengal emerged from this palace. The nawabs of Dhaka used to conduct their court affairs here as chief of the panchayet (village council) everyday. Many anti-Congress meetings were held here under the patronization of Nawab Ahsanullah, a staunch believer in Muslim identity. Almost all the Viceroys, Governors and Lieutenant Governors of British India who visited Dhaka spent some time at the Ahsan Manzil.\nAlmost all political activities of Nawab Khwaja Salimullah centred round this palace. Ahsan Manzil was the cradle of the All India Muslim League. With the decline of the Nawabs of Dhaka, Ahsan Manzil also started to decline.\n\nIn 1952, the Dhaka Nawab State was acquired under the East Bengal Estate Acquisition Act; it became impossible for the successors of the Nawabs to maintain the palace due to financial constraints. Nawab Khwaja Habibullah started living at Paribag Green House soon after the acquisition of the zamindari. The palace was soon on the verge of collapse as successors rented out rooms without considering its dignity. Over the years illegal occupants turned the place into a filthy slum. After the independence of Bangladesh, most of the nawab family went to abroad in search of a better livelihood and work. On 1974, the owners of the palace decided to put it up for auction.\n\nRecognizing the historical and architectural importance of the Ahsan Manzil, the government of Bangladesh took the initiative to renovate it. In 1985, Ahsan Manzil and its surroundings were acquired. After the completion of the renovation work in 1992 under the supervision of the Directorate of Public Works and Architecture, it was brought under the control of Bangladesh National Museum (20 September 1992). A museum has been established there.\nConsidering the historical importance and architectural significance of Ahsan Manzil palace, the government was trying to conserve it since the later part of the Pakistani rule. The father of nation Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman canceled its auction proposal option. On 2 November 1974, he ordered to establish a museum and tourist center after its proper conservation.\n\nAfter the implementation of the work on the museum started, most of the nawab's house area along with the half of the portion of the Andarmahal remained beyond acquisition. The total area of acquired land was 5.65 acres. Out of that 0.68 acres from northern side was given to Dhaka City Corporation to establish a super market and 4.96 acres of land with the palace buildings remained for museum purpose. In 1986, the work began according to the above order keeping the original structure undisturbed and reconstructing the old environment as far as possible. After the completion of the renovation work in 1992, under the supervision of the Directorate of Public Works and Architecture, it was brought under the control of Bangladesh National Museum (20 September 1992). A museum has been established there.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1885310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885310", "title": "Shawn Yue", "text": "Shawn Yue\n\nShawn Yue Man-lok (born 13 November 1981), is a former Hong Kong (now China) actor and singer. A former model, he has starred in many films such as \"Jiang Hu\" and \"Infernal Affairs II\" and has established himself as a recognisable face in Hong Kong cinema.\n\nYue was born and raised in Hong Kong, with roots in Taishan, Guangdong. Spotted at an early age on the streets of Hong Kong by agents of the modelling agency Starz People and began his modelling on a part-time basis. Once he graduated from grade 16, he immediately indulged into full-time modeling. He has since modeled for Giordano, Sony, Timberland, Gillette, Meko and is currently a spokesperson for Shiseido Pureness and Coca-Cola China.\n\nBeing a full-time model for several years, Yue turned his career and headed for the Hong Kong entertainment industry. From there, he starred in several movies and gained fame from his first role in \"Leaving Sorrowly\" (2001). 2005 was also a great year for Yue who portrayed Takeshi Nakazato in the film \"Initial D\". According to the latest media release, Yue only appeared for less than half an hour in the film. However, despite the short appearance, his portrayal of Nakazato managed to leave a deep impression and impact on a lot of the viewers’ hearts, especially in Japan, where this has resulted directly in many new Japanese fans in Yue and a new lucrative market has been opened for Yue to conquer. \n\nYue has also released four albums, the first being in 2002. He worked with Japanese music superstar Ayumi Hamasaki in 2007, starring as her love interest in the promotional videos for \"glitter\" and \"fated\", which together comprise the Wong Hoi-directed short film \"Kyoai ~Distance Love~\".\n"}
{"id": "1885318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885318", "title": "Harlem Shuffle (dance step)", "text": "Harlem Shuffle (dance step)\n\nThe Harlem Shuffle is a dance maneuver that takes various forms. One form is as a complete line dance, consisting of approximately 25 steps. Other forms may include a simplified two-step followed by a shoulder-brushing motion with the back of the opposite hand.\n\nIn some respects, the maneuver is a homage to the vibrant dance culture that permeated dance clubs of the Harlem area during the \"Harlem renaissance\". Such gestures became increasingly common from the 1980s onwards, as greater attempts were made to properly credit the influence of African-American artists and musicians on popular culture.\n"}
{"id": "1885332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885332", "title": "Gallaher Group", "text": "Gallaher Group\n\nGallaher Group was a United Kingdom-based multinational tobacco company which traded on the London Stock Exchange and was a constituent of the FTSE 100 Index, prior to its acquisition by Japan Tobacco in April 2007. Japan Tobacco now trades in the United Kingdom through Japan Tobacco International as Gallaher Ltd. Its registered office is at Members Hill, Brooklands Road, Weybridge, Surrey, KT13 0QU, UK.\n\nThe business was founded in 1857 by Tom Gallaher in Derry, Ireland (now part of Northern Ireland.) By 1896, he had opened the largest tobacco factory in the world in Belfast. The business was incorporated on 28 March 1896 to \"carry on in all their branches the businesses of tobacco, cigar, cigarettes and snuff manufacture\".\n\nFormerly produced in London and Dublin, Gallaher moved production to Belfast (cigarettes) and Wales (cigars) in the early 20th century.\n\nGallaher went on to acquire a number of rival companies including J. A. Pattreiouex (1937), J. R. Freeman (1947), Cope Bros & Co (1952) and Benson & Hedges (1955).\n\nOn 4 August 2000 Gallaher completed the acquisition of Liggett Ducat, Russia's number one cigarette brand. In January 2002, Gallaher became the 100% owner of Austria's former nationalised biggest tobacco-company Austria Tabak.\n\nIn 2002 US tobacco firm Reynolds formed Reynolds-Gallaher International to access cigarette sales in most countries in the European Union. The agreement was scheduled to run through 2012 but in May 2007, as a result of the acquisition of Gallaher Group by Japan Tobacco, it was announced that this joint-venture would cease in November 2007.\n\nJapan Tobacco became the sole owner of the Gallaher Group on 18 April 2007, in the largest ever foreign acquisition in Japanese history. \n\nThe closure of the former J. R. Freeman's factory in Cardiff was announced in September 2007, with all work scheduled to move to the Ballymena factory by September 2009.\n\nIn 2015, JTI Gallaher announced the closure of their Ballymena operations with all work due to re-locate to Eastern Europe in a cost saving measure by 2017. This resulted in the loss of over 1000 jobs in the town and ceasing of tobacco production in Ireland by Gallaher's after more than 100 years.\n\nUntil acquisition by Japan Tobacco, Gallaher operated primarily in the United Kingdom and Europe, with smaller operations in Central Asia, Africa and the Middle East. Gallaher was the third largest of the three major British tobacco groups; the two remaining are British American Tobacco and Imperial Tobacco.\n\nGallaher-owned brands include Benson & Hedges (with Philip Morris International, British American Tobacco, and Japan Tobacco), Silk Cut, Sterling, Mayfair, Crystal, Nil, Kensitas Club, Senior Service, Dos Hermanos, Gold Seal, Amber Leaf, Sobranie and Hamlet Cigars.\n\nThe Djarum brands included Djarum Super, Djarum Black, Djarum Coklat, Djarum 76, Djarum Istimewa, Djarum Special, Djarum Menthol, Djarum Vanilla, Djarum Cherry, LA Lights, Mustang, Mr. Brown, and Envio Mild. Djarum Group relationship with Gallaher Group has not been properly confirmed, since PT Djarum is a private Indonesian company, with majority of its shares own by Hartono family.\n\nGallaher owned Wismilak, which is the 6th largest cigarette company in Indonesia. However, this ownership was not recorded in Wismilak Group Shareholders list as per 31 December 2014.\n\nIn the UK, JTI maintains a national distribution centre in Crewe and Business Service Centre in Manchester.\n\n"}
{"id": "1885335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885335", "title": "Homebush Boys High School", "text": "Homebush Boys High School\n\nHomebush Boys High School, founded in 1936, is a comprehensive public high school for boys. It is in Homebush, in Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.\n\nFormerly a selective high school until the 1970s, in 2006 Homebush Boys was regarded as one of the academically best-performing comprehensive schools, and has, in the past, been ranked above selective schools on the Higher School Certificate results.\n\nThe school has an enrolment of approximately 1208 students.\n\nThe school has nine faculties, being English, Mathematics, Science, Social Science, History, Music, Languages, Art, Technical and Applied Studies and PDHPE.\n\nHomebush Boys is a consistent achiever in the Higher School Certificate (HSC) outcome, averaging 5–10 students achieving the Premier's Award every year. In 2004, a student named Martin Feng became the first Homebush Boy to score 100 in the Universities Admission Index (UAI).\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1885337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885337", "title": "Locust Point", "text": "Locust Point\n\nLocust Point may refer to a location in the United States:\n\n"}
{"id": "1885340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885340", "title": "National Marine Mammal Laboratory", "text": "National Marine Mammal Laboratory\n\nThe National Marine Mammal Laboratory (NMML) is a United States research laboratory that undertakes research into marine mammals under the direction of the National Marine Fisheries Service and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.\n\nThe laboratory is responsible for all government-run marine mammal research across the United States. However, the Laboratory is based in Seattle, Washington, and research work tends to be focused on the coastal waters of California, Oregon, Washington and Alaska. Research tasks including stock quality and quantity assessment and in particular assessing trends in stock sizes. Research methods include satellite telemetry analysis and fieldwork from aircraft and ships.\n"}
{"id": "1885347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885347", "title": "The Ballad of John and Yoko", "text": "The Ballad of John and Yoko\n\n\"The Ballad of John and Yoko\" is a song written by John Lennon, credited to Lennon–McCartney, and released by the English rock band the Beatles as a single in May 1969. The song, chronicling the events surrounding the wedding of Lennon and Yoko Ono, was the Beatles' 17th and final UK number one single.\n\nAuthored by Lennon while on his honeymoon in Paris, it tells of the events of his and Ono's wedding, in March 1969, and their publicly held honeymoon activities, including their \"Bed-In\" at the Amsterdam Hilton Hotel and their demonstration of \"bagism\".\n\nLennon brought the song to McCartney's home on 14 April 1969, before recording it that evening. Recalling the controversy engendered by Lennon's \"more popular than Jesus\" remark in 1966, McCartney was alarmed at the references to 'Christ' in the new song but agreed to assist Lennon. Ono later said: \"Paul knew that people were being nasty to John, and he just wanted to make it well for him. Paul has a very brotherly side to him.\"\n\nThe song was recorded without George Harrison (who was on holiday) and Ringo Starr (who was filming \"The Magic Christian\"). In Barry Miles' biography, McCartney recalls that Lennon had a sudden inspiration for the song and had suggested that the two of them should record it immediately, without waiting for the other Beatles to return. Reflecting this somewhat unusual situation, the session recordings include the following exchange:\n\nThe session marked the return of Geoff Emerick as recording engineer at a Beatles session after he had quit working with the group during the tense White Album sessions nine months earlier. Commenting in the \"Beatles Anthology\" book, Harrison said: \"I didn't mind not being on the record, because it was none of my business... If it had been 'The Ballad of John, George and Yoko', then I would have been on it.\"\n\nBacked with Harrison's \"Old Brown Shoe\", the single was released in the United Kingdom on 30 May 1969. Lennon and Ono were performing a second bed-in at the Queen Elizabeth Hotel in Montreal at the time. The United States release followed on 4 June.\n\nIn the UK and Europe, it was the first Beatles single to be released in stereo. It was therefore the first release not given a mono mix.\n\nThe song has been included on several compilation albums: \"Hey Jude\" (US, 1970), \"1967–1970\" (1973), \"20 Greatest Hits\" (UK, 1982), \"Past Masters\" (1988) and \"1\" (2000).\n\nSeveral US radio stations declined to broadcast the song because of what they saw as sacrilegious use of the words \"Christ\" and \"crucify\" in the chorus:\n\nIn 2012 the song was ranked as the 404th best classic rock song of all time by New York's Q104.3. \nThe Spanish government under Franco objected to the song because of its statement, \"Peter Brown called to say, 'You can make it OK, you can get married in Gibraltar near Spain.'\" The status of Gibraltar is a long-running subject of debate between Spain and the United Kingdom.\n\nThe single became the Beatles' 17th and final UK No. 1; it reached No. 8 in the US.\n\nWhen cartoonist Al Capp visited John Lennon and Yoko Ono at their 1969 Bed-In for Peace in Montreal, Capp pointedly asked Lennon about the meaning of the lyrics of the song. Their testy exchange later appeared in the 1988 documentary film \"\". On Capp's exit, Lennon sang an impromptu version with a slightly revised, but nonetheless prophetic lyric: \"Christ you know it ain't easy / You know how hard it can be / The way things are goin' / They're gonna crucify Capp!\"\n\nAccording to Ian MacDonald and Mark Lewisohn:\n\n"}
{"id": "1885348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885348", "title": "Scarborough Shoal", "text": "Scarborough Shoal\n\nScarborough Shoal, also known as Bajo de Masinloc (Spanish), Panatag Shoal (Filipino: \"Kulumpol ng Panatag\"), Huangyan Dao, and Democracy Reef are two rocks in a shoal located between the Macclesfield Bank and Luzon island in the South China Sea. The nearest land mass from it is Luzon, the largest island in the Philippines.\n\nIt is a disputed territory claimed by the Republic of the Philippines through the 1734 Velarde map, while the People's Republic of China and the Republic of China (Taiwan) claim it through the internationally invalidated nine-dash line. The shoal's status is often discussed in conjunction with other territorial disputes in the South China Sea such as those involving the Spratly Islands, and the 2012 Scarborough Shoal standoff. It was administered by the Philippines as part of its Zambales province, until 2012, when a standoff was initiated by China through the use of warships against fishing boats.\n\nIt was expected for the United States to defend the territory of the Philippines through the 1951 US-Philippines Mutual Defense Treaty, however, the United States chose to move itself away from its obligations, which resulted in the United States being branded as an 'unreliable ally', while China's expansionist ideals in the Asia-Pacific region was solidified.\n\nIn 2013, the Philippines solely filed an international case against China in the UN-backed court in The Hague, Netherlands. In 2016, the court declared that China's so-called nine-dash line claim in the entire South China Sea was invalid, while upholding the sovereign rights of the Philippines in the area. China rejected the UN-backed international court's decision, sending more warships in Scarborough Shoal and the Spratly Islands, while a multitude of nations backed the Tribunal's ruling, including Australia, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Canada, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Ireland, India, Italy, Japan, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Myanmar, Netherlands, New Zealand, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, South Korea, Spain, Sweden, United Kingdom, & United States, as well as claimants to the area such as Malaysia, Vietnam, and the Philippines.\n\nThe shoal was named by Captain Philip D'Auvergne, whose East India Company East Indiaman \"Scarborough\" grounded on one of the rocks on 12 September 1784, before sailing on to China,<ref name=\"Joseph Huddart 1801 https://books.google.com/books?id=FbwBAAAAYAAJ&pg=PA454 454\"></ref> although it already had a Spanish name recorded in the 1734 Velarde map of Spanish Philippines.\n\nScarborough Shoal forms a triangle-shaped chain of reefs and rocks with a perimeter of . It covers an area of , including an inner lagoon. The shoal's highest point, \"South Rock\", is above sea-level at high tide. Located north of it is a channel, approximately wide and deep, leading into the lagoon. Several other coral rocks encircle the lagoon, forming a large atoll.\n\nThe shoal is about west of Subic Bay. To the east of the shoal is the deep Manila Trench. The nearest landmass is Palauig, Zambales on Luzon island in the Philippines, due east.\n\nA number of countries have made historic claims of the use of Scarborough Shoal. China has claimed that a 1279 Yuan dynasty map and subsequent surveys by the royal astronomer Guo Shoujing carried out during Kublai Khan's reign established that Scarborough Shoal (then called \"Zhongsha islands\") were used since the thirteenth century by Chinese fishermen. However, no such 1279 map has been released by China to the public.\n\nDuring the Spanish period of the Philippines, a 1734 map was made, which clearly named Scarborough Shoals as \"Panacot\", a feature under complete sovereignty of Spanish Philippines. The shoal's current name was chosen by Captain Philip D'Auvergne, whose East India Company East Indiaman \"Scarborough\" briefly grounded on one of the rocks on 12 September 1784, before sailing on to China. When the Philippines was granted independence in the 19th century and 20th century, Scarborough Shoal was passed by the colonial governments to the sovereign Republic of the Philippines.\n\nThe 2012 Scarborough Shoal standoff between China and the Philippines led to a situation where access to the shoal was restricted by the People's Republic of China. The expected intervention of the United States to protect its ally through an existing mutual defense treaty did not commence after the United States indirectly stated that it does not recognize any nation's sovereignty over Scarborough Shoal, leading to strained ties between the Philippines and the United States. In January 2013, the Philippines formally initiated arbitration proceedings against China's claim on the territories within the \"nine-dash line\" that includes Spratly Islands and Scarborough Shoal, which it said is \"unlawful\" under the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS). An arbitration tribunal was constituted under Annex VII of UNCLOS and it was decided in July 2013 that the Permanent Court of Arbitration (PCA) would function as registry and provide administrative duties in the proceedings.\n\nOn 12 July 2016, the arbitrators of the tribunal of PCA agreed unanimously with the Philippines. They concluded in the award that there was no evidence that China had historically exercised exclusive control over the waters or resources, hence there was \"no legal basis for China to claim historic rights\" over the nine-dash line. Accordingly, the PCA tribunal decision is ruled as final and non-appealable by either country. The tribunal also criticized China's land reclamation projects and its construction of artificial islands in the Spratly Islands, saying that it had caused \"severe harm to the coral reef environment\". It also characterized Taiping Island and other features of the Spratly Islands as \"rocks\" under UNCLOS, and therefore are not entitled to a 200 nautical mile exclusive economic zone. China however rejected the ruling, calling it \"ill-founded\". Taiwan, which currently administers Taiping Island, the largest of the Spratly Islands, also rejected the ruling.\n\nIn late 2016, following meetings between the Philippine president Duterte and his PRC counterparts, the PRC \"verbally\" allowed Filipino fishermen to access the shoals for fishing, sparking criticism as \"allowing\" would mean China is implying that it owns the territory. In January 2018, it was revealed that for every 3,000 pesos' worth of fish catch by Filipino fisherfolk, China took them in exchange for \"two bottles of mineral water\" worth 20 pesos. On June 14, 2018, China's destruction of Scarborough Shoal's reefs surged to an extent which they became visible via satellites, as confirmed by the University of the Philippines Diliman.\n\nThe shoal and its surrounding area are rich fishing grounds. The atoll's lagoon provides some protection for fishing boats during inclement weather.\n\nThere are thick layers of guano lying on the rocks in the area. Several diving excursions and amateur radio operations, DX-peditions (1994, 1995, 1997 and 2007), have been carried out in the area.\n\nAt various times between 1951 and 1991, U.S. and Philippine military forces operating from Philippine bases routinely employed various types of live and inert ordnance at Scarborough Shoal for exercises and other training. It is possible that much of this expended ordnance remains on the ocean floor, posing a hazard to anyone attempting to disturb the shoal or the surrounding ocean areas. A CBS News expose revealed that fishermen here were more distressed by the pollution caused by the Masinloc thermal power plant and local Barangay corruption than by any PRC activities.\n\nIn July 2015, Filipino fishermen discovered large buoys and containment booms in Scarborough shoal, and assumed them to be of PRC origin. They were removed and towed back to the Philippine coast. In March 2016, in its Scarborough Contingency plan, the CSIS Asia Maritime transparency Initiative reported that satellite imagery had shown no signs of any land reclamation, dredging or construction activities in Scarborough shoal. Only one small Chinese civilian ship and two small Filipino trimaran fishing boats \"(bangkas)\" were seen, as has been normal for the past few years.\n\nIn September 2016 during the ASEAN summit, the Philippine government claimed that a number of Chinese ships capable of land reclamation had collected at Scarborough shoal. This claim was denied by the PRC government.\n\nAlso in September 2016, the New York Times reported that PRC activities at the Shoal continued in the form of naval patrols and hydrographic surveys. The PRC navy restricted Filipino fishermen access to the shoal from 2012 until August 2016, at which time PRC authorities started to allow Filipino fishermen to resume fishing in the shoal after talks between the Philippine President Duterte and his Chinese counterparts. However fishermen were prohibited from using dynamite fishing or other methods, including clam digging, that could harm the ecology of the reefs.\n\nIn January 2017, the International Business Times reported the possibility of land reclamation at Scarborough shoal by the PRC. However, photos of the shoal posted by CSIS have, to date, not shown any evidence of reclamation activity.\n\nThe People's Republic of China and Republic of China Taiwan claim that Chinese people discovered the shoal centuries ago and that there is a long history of Chinese fishing activity in the area. The shoal lies within the nine-dotted line drawn by China on maps marking its claim to islands and relevant waters consistent with United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS) within the South China Sea. An article published in May 2012 in the \"PLA Daily\" states that Chinese astronomer Guo Shoujing went to the island in 1279, under the Yuan dynasty, as part of an empire-wide survey called \"Measurement of the Four Seas\" (四海測驗), however, no such 13th century map has been made public by China nor such evidence on the existence of the map is known. In 1979 historical geographer Han Zhenhua (韩振华) was among the first scholars to claim that the point called \"Nanhai\" (literally, \"South Sea\") in that astronomical survey referred to Scarborough Shoal. In 1980 during a conflict with Vietnam for sovereignty over the Paracel Islands (Xisha Islands), however, the Chinese government issued an official document claiming that \"Nanhai\" in the 1279 survey was located in the Paracels. Historical geographer Niu Zhongxun defended this view in several articles. In 1990, a historian called Zeng Zhaoxuan (曾昭璇) argued instead that the Nanhai measuring point was located in Central Vietnam. Historian of astronomy Chen Meidong (陈美东) and historian of Chinese science Nathan Sivin have since agreed with Zeng's position in their respective books about Guo Shoujing.\n\nIn 1935, China, as the Republic of China (ROC), regarded the shoal as part of the Zhongsha Islands. That position has since been maintained by both the ROC, which now governs Taiwan, and the People's Republic of China (PRC). In 1947 the shoal was given the name \"Minzhu Jiao\" (). In 1983 the People's Republic of China renamed it \"Huangyan Island\" with \"Minzhu Jiao\" reserved as a second name. In 1956 Beijing protested Philippine remarks that the South China Sea islands in close proximity to Philippine territory should belong to the Philippines. China's \"Declaration on the territorial Sea\", promulgated in 1958, says in part,\n\nChina reaffirmed its claim of sovereignty over the Zhongsha Islands in its 1992 Law on the territorial Sea and the Contiguous Zone. China claims all the islands, reefs, and shoals within a U-shaped line in the South China Sea drawn in 1947 as its territory. Scarborough shoal lies within this area.\n\nChina further asserted its claim shortly after the departure of the US Navy force from Subic, Zambales, Philippines. In the late 1970s, many scientific expedition activities organized by State Bureau of Surveying, National Earthquake Bureau and National Bureau of Oceanography were held in the shoal and around this area. In 1980, a stone marker reading \"South China Sea Scientific Expedition\" was installed on the South Rock, but was removed by Philippines in 1997.\n\nThe Philippines state that its assertion of sovereignty over the shoal is based on the juridical criteria established by public international law on the lawful methods for the acquisition of sovereignty. Among the criteria (effective occupation, cession, prescription, conquest, and accretion), the Philippine Department of Foreign Affairs (DFA) has asserted that the country exercised both effective occupation and effective jurisdiction over the shoal, which it terms \"Bajo de Masinloc\", since its independence. Thus, it claims to have erected flags in some islands and a lighthouse which it reported to the International Maritime Organization. It also asserts that the Philippine and US Naval Forces have used it as impact range and that its Department of Environment and Natural Resources has conducted scientific, topographic and marine studies in the shoal, while Filipino fishermen regularly use it as fishing ground and have always considered it their own.\n\nThe DFA also claims that the name Bajo de Masinloc (translated as \"under Masinloc\") itself identifies the shoal as a particular political subdivision of the Philippine Province of Zambales, known as Masinloc. As basis, the Philippines cites the Island of Palmas Case, where the sovereignty of the island was adjudged by the international court in favor of the Netherlands because of its effective jurisdiction and control over the island despite the historic claim of Spain. Thus, the Philippines argues that the historic claim of China over the Scarborough Shoal still needs to be substantiated by a historic title, since a claim by itself is not among the internationally recognized legal basis for acquiring sovereignty over territory.\n\nIt also asserts that there is no indication that the international community has acquiesced to China's historical claim, and that the activity of fishing of private Chinese individuals, claimed to be a traditional exercise among these waters, does not constitute a sovereign act of the Chinese state.\n\nThe Philippine government argues that since the legal basis of its claim is based on the international law on acquisition of sovereignty, the Exclusive Economic Zone claim on the waters around Scarborough is different from the sovereignty exercised by the Philippines in the shoal.\n\nThe Philippine government has proposed taking the dispute to the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea (ITLOS) as provided in Part XV of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, but the Chinese government has rejected this, insisting on bilateral discussions.\n\nThe Philippines also claims that as early as the Spanish colonization of the Philippines, Filipino fishermen were already using the area as a traditional fishing ground and shelter during bad weather.\n\nSeveral official Philippine maps published by Spain and United States in 18th and 20th centuries show Scarborough Shoal as Philippine territory. The 18th-century map \"\"Carta hydrographica y chorographica de las Islas Filipinas\"\" (1734) shows the Scarborough Shoal then was named as Panacot Shoal. The map also shows the shape of the shoal as consistent with the current maps available as today. In 1792, another map drawn by the Malaspina expedition and published in 1808 in Madrid, Spain also showed Bajo de Masinloc as part of Philippine territory. The map showed the route of the Malaspina expedition to and around the shoal. It was reproduced in the \"Atlas of the 1939 Philippine Census\", which was published in Manila a year later and predates the controversial 1947 Chinese South China Sea Claim Map that shows no Chinese name on it. Another topographic map drawn in 1820 shows the shoal, named there as \"\"Bajo Scarburo\",\" as a constituent part of Sambalez (Zambales province). During the 1900s, \"Mapa General\", \"Islas Filipinas\", \"Observatorio de Manila\", and US Coast and Geodetic Survey Map include the Scarborough Shoal named as \"\"Baju De Masinloc\".\" A map published in 1978 by the Philippine National Mapping and Resource Information Authority, however, did not indicate Scarborough Shoal as part of the Philippines. Scholar Li Xiao Cong stated in his published paper that Panacot Shoal is not Scarborough Shoal, in the 1778 map \"A chart of the China Sea and Philippine Islands with the Archipelagos of Felicia and Soloo\", Scarborough shoal and 3 other shoals Galit, Panacot and Lumbay were all shown independently. Li also pointed out that the three shoals were also shown on Chinese maps which were published in 1717.\n\nIn 1957, the Philippine government conducted an oceanographic survey of the area and together with the US Navy force based in then U.S. Naval Base Subic Bay in Zambales, used the area as an impact range for defense purposes. An 8.3 meter high flag pole flying a Philippine flag was raised in 1965. An iron tower that was to serve as a small lighthouse was also built and operated the same year. In 1992, the Philippine Navy rehabilitated the lighthouse and reported it to the International Maritime Organization for publication in the List of Lights. , the military-maintained lighthouse is non-operational.\n\nHistorically, the Philippine boundary has been defined by its 3 treaties, Treaty of Paris (1898), Treaty of Washington (1900) and \"Convention regarding the boundary between the Philippine Archipelago and the State of North Borneo\". Many analysts consider that the 1900 Treaty of Washington concerned only the islands of Sibutu and Cagayan de Sulu., but a point of view argued that Scarborough Shoal has been transferred to the United States based on the Treaty of Washington (1900), ignoring the fact that the cession documents from the United States to the Philippines did not have any reference to the Scarborough Shoal.\n\nThe DFA asserts that the basis of Philippine sovereignty and jurisdiction over the rock features of Bajo de Masinloc are not premised on the cession by Spain of the Philippine archipelago to the United States under the Treaty of Paris, and argues that the matter that the rock features of Bajo de Masinloc are not included or within the limits of the Treaty of Paris as alleged by China is therefore immaterial and of no consequence.\n\nPresidential Decree No. 1596 issued onJune11, 1978 asserted that islands designated as the Kalayaan Island Group and comprising most of the Spratly Islands are subject to the sovereignty of the Philippines, and by virtue of the Presidential Decree No. 1599 issued on June 11, 1978 claimed an Exclusive Economic Zone up to from the baselines from which their territorial sea is measured.\n\nThe Philippines' bilateral dispute with China over the shoal began on April30, 1997 when Filipino naval ships prevented Chinese boats from approaching the shoal. On June 5 of that year, Domingo Siazon, who was then the Philippine Secretary of Foreign Affairs, testified in front of the Committee on Foreign Relations of the United States Senate that the Shoal was \"a new issue on overlapping claims between the Philippines and China\".\n\nIn 2009, the \"Philippine Baselines Law of 2009\" (RA 9522), authored and sponsored by Senator Miriam Defensor Santiago, was enacted into law. The new law classified the Kalayaan Island Group and the Scarborough Shoal as a \"regime of islands under the Republic of the Philippines\".\n\nIn January 2013 the Philippines formally initiated arbitration proceedings against the PRC claim on the territories within the \"nine-dash line\" that include Scarborough Shoal, which the Philippines claimed is unlawful under the UNCLOS convention. An arbitration tribunal was constituted under Annex VII of UNCLOS and it was decided in July 2013 that the Permanent Court of Arbitration (PCA) would function as registry and provide administrative duties in the proceedings.\n\nOn 12 July 2016 the PCA tribunal agreed unanimously with the Philippines. In its award, it concluded that there is no evidence that China had historically exercised exclusive control over the waters or resources, hence there was \"no legal basis for China to claim historic rights\" over the area within the nine-dash line. The tribunal also judged that the PRC had caused \"severe harm to the coral reef environment\", and that it had violated the Philippines' sovereign rights in its Exclusive Economic Zone by interfering with Philippine fishing and petroleum exploration by, for example, restricting the traditional fishing rights of Filipino fishermen at Scarborough Shoal. The PRC rejected the ruling, calling it \"ill-founded\"\". PRC paramount leader and Chinese Communist Party general secretary Xi Jinping insisted that \"China's territorial sovereignty and marine rights in the South China Sea will not be affected by the so-called Philippines South China Sea ruling in any way\", nevertheless the PRC would still be \"committed to resolving disputes\" with its neighbours. China afterwards sent more warships in the Scarborough Shoal. Numerous countries called on the international community to support the Tribunal ruling & positively acknowledge it. Among them were Australia, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Canada, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Ireland, India, Italy, Japan, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Myanmar, Netherlands, New Zealand, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, South Korea, Spain, Sweden, United Kingdom, & United States, as well as claimants to the area such as Malaysia, Vietnam, and the Philippines.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1885353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885353", "title": "Fort McHenry Guard", "text": "Fort McHenry Guard\n\nThe Fort McHenry Guard is a dynamic volunteer unit that serves Fort McHenry National Monument and Historic Shrine. \n\nDedicated men and women of all ages from across Maryland, Guard members dress in period clothes from the War of 1812 and help interpret the Battle of Baltimore and the role of Fort McHenry for the many visitors who come to the park annually. Beyond the park, the Guard assists in other War of 1812 events and reenactments at places such as Riversdale and Havre de Grace. \n\nAmong their members is former Governor of Maryland, Martin O'Malley who was named their honorary colonel in 2003. \n\nIn 2005, the Guard was presented the George B. Hartzog award for serving as the National Park Service's best volunteer unit.\n\n"}
{"id": "1885354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885354", "title": "Lithuanian Activist Front", "text": "Lithuanian Activist Front\n\nLithuanian Activist Front or LAF () was a short-lived resistance organization established in 1940 after Lithuania was occupied by the Soviet Union. The goal of the organization was to liberate Lithuania and re-establish its independence. It planned and executed the June Uprising and established the short-lived Provisional Government of Lithuania. The Government self-disbanded and LAF was banned by Nazi authorities in September 1941. LAF remains controversial due to its anti-Semitic and anti-Polish positions.\n\nLAF was established on 17 November 1940. Kazys Škirpa, former Lithuanian military attaché to Germany, is often credited as the founder. LAF was meant to unite people of various political beliefs, who wanted to see Lithuania as an independent country, rather than as part of the Soviet Union or Nazi Germany. The Berlin unit, formed by Kazys Škirpa, united mainly former Lithuanian expatriates and diplomats in Germany. It gathered representatives of most major pre-war Lithuanian factions and parties, and within LAF, the most influential were the Nationalist Unionists and the Christian Democrats. \n\nAs time passed, local LAF units were formed in various Lithuanian cities. The local LAF units were organizing espionage networks. The local LAF units in Lithuanian cities maintained more liberal political views than the Berlin headquarters. Lack of correspondence between the Berlin unit and Lithuanian units prevented discussions of ideology. In Germany, LAF had contact with Wilhelm Franz Canaris and Abwehr, but not the Nazi party. LAF expected that Nazi Germany would attack the Soviet Union and planned to use this occasion for their own rebellion and establishment of independent Lithuania.\n\nOn 22 April 1941, representatives of Vilnius and Kaunas branches of LAF formed the Provisional Government of Lithuania, i.e. established a list of its members. LAF formed the Lithuanian underground government planning to take over the country when the Soviet army would be pushed out by the German army. The Provisional Government was mainly formed out of Vilnius and Kaunas sections of LAF. However, two of its members, including the prime minister Kazys Škirpa, were in Germany and were later detained there. Over time, many people from this government, as well as other LAF members, were arrested, executed, or exiled by Soviet authorities.\n\nGermany declared war on the Soviet Union on June 22, 1941, and the same day LAF started the June Uprising. LAF partisans aided the Germans. The next day, June 23, independence of Lithuania was declared. In whole Lithuania about 10 000 people participated in June Uprising, 700 of them were killed by retreating Soviet army. LAF freed 3336 political prisoners, detained by the Soviets. Short-handed Provisional Government took power on June 24. On June 21 four members of the government were arrested by the Soviet authorities, supposed prime minister Kazys Škirpa was put under house arrest in Berlin, and another minister was also unable to come. Juozas Ambrazevičius became the prime minister.\n\nHowever, the negotiations with Germany over the recognition of Lithuania failed, as Nazi government had no interest in an independent Lithuania. General feldmarschall Walther von Brauchitsch issued a directive on 26 June 1941 to the commander of Army Group North, under which \"small armed Lithuanian groups and Lithuanian police\" should be disarmed and sent to the concentration camps. Disarmament of LAF activists started by Wehrmacht in Kaunas on June 26 and lasted till 28 of June. Last LAF activists were disarmed in Zarasai and Obeliai on 28-29 of June. The German authorities did not use brutal force against its members. Rather, they established their own administrative structures (Reichskommissariat Ostland) and slowly deprived the government of its powers. The government lost all of its power in a few weeks, and seeing no more reason to continue work, dissolved itself in August 1941. LAF as an organization remained. On 15 of September it sent a memorandum \"About the status of Lithuania after the German Civil Administration started to operate\" (\"Apie Lietuvos būklę, vokiečių civilinei administracijai pradėjus veikti\") to Germany protesting against the occupation of Lithuania and expressing hopes that Germany would not extend its territory at expense of Lithuania. In response, the Lithuanian Activist Front was banned on September 26; its property confiscated, and its leader Leonas Prapuolenis was arrested and sent to Dachau concentration camp. Other members like Pilypas Narutis-Žukauskas, Petras Paulaitis joined anti-nazi resistance.\n\nThe LAF is a controversial organization because of its anti-Semitic and anti-Polish views and overall collaboration with the Nazi Germany. For example, LAF's manifesto-type essay \"What Are the Activists Fighting for?\" states: \"The Lithuanian Activist Front, by restoring the new Lithuania, is determined to carry out an immediate and fundamental purging of the Lithuanian nation and its land of Jews ...\". The LAF's pro-Nazi rhetoric and stridently anti-Semitic propaganda that equated Jews with Bolshevism and was widely disseminated in Lithuania prior to and during the June uprising likely encouraged the local population to engage in mass violence against Jews that began prior to the arrival of Nazi forces in the country and continued during the Nazi occupation (1941-1945).\n\nMore than 95% of Lithuania's Jewish population was massacred during the Nazi occupation—a more complete destruction than befell any other country affected by the Holocaust. Historians attribute this to the massive collaboration in the genocide by the non-Jewish local paramilitaries, though the reasons for this collaboration are still debated. The Holocaust resulted in the largest-ever loss of life in so short a period of time in the history of Lithuania.\n\nThe goal of the June uprising organized by the LAF was to seize control of Lithuania as Soviet forces retreated in the face of Germany's attack. During the June uprising, LAF paramilitaries committed many atrocities (rapes, murders, pillage). Even the Germans referred to these \"allies\" as \"organized robbers\". Also, a number of acts issued by the LAF-instituted Provisional Government of Lithuania discriminated against Jews, one notable example being \"Žydų padėties nuostatai\" (English: \"Regulation on Status of Jews\"), which according to some authors were never actually adopted and only considered by the Provisional Government. The LAF did unsuccessfully attempt to stop a pogrom organized by Algirdas Klimaitis in Vilijampolė. Upon hearing that Klimaitis was to start a pogrom in Vilijampole suburb on June 25, the LAF staff in Kaunas unsuccessfully attempted to stop him. Later, the Provisional Government of Lithuania detailed Generals Reklaitis and Pundzevičius of the LAF Defense Committee to confer with him. Wearing a Lithuanian flag draped across his chest, Klimaitis met the two former Lithuanians generals and unsuccessfully attempted to justify his actions. The generals succeeded in convincing this upstart that his actions were darkening the Lithuanian name and that he was doing the Nazis' dirty work for them.\n\nAmong the initial tactics of Nazi authorities was to surreptitiously encourage and involve the local population in attacks on Jews. These tactics are well disclosed in the Schutzstaffel General Brigadeführer and Security Police Chief of the Occupied Eastern Territories Franz Walter Stahlecker 1941 X.15 report to the Reich Minister Heinrich Himmler. In his report to Heinrich Himmler about his tasks (the extermination of Jews in the Baltic states) execution, Franz Walter Stahlecker states that the extermination of Jews in the Wehrmacht occupied territories should be performed in a way that the Nazis would remain \"clean\" in front of the history and that there would be no sign of Nazis actual inspiration, organization or conducting, and it should look like that the local population and its institutions in their own initiative performed the execution of the Jewish population.\n\nIn this regard, the LAF and its paramilitaries initially proved handy. Meanwhile, the LAF-established Provisional Government of Lithuania did little to oppose the anti-Jewish violence and murder carried out by the Nazis and their local collaborators. Its main goal was to protect ethnic Lithuanians and reestablish an independent Lithuania under the patronage of Nazi Germany. Lithuanian Minister of National Defence General Stasys Raštikis (former Commander of the Lithuanian Army) met personally with the Nazi Germany Generals to discuss anti-Jewish violence. He approached the Kaunas War Field Commandant General Robert von Pohl and the Commander of Army Group North Rear Area General Franz von Roques by trying to plead on behalf of the Jews, however they replied that the Gestapo is handling these issues and that they cannot help.\n\nAt the beginning of the occupation, Acting Prime Minister of the Provisional Government of Lithuania Juozas Ambrazevičius (a.k.a., Juozas Brazaitis) convened a meeting in which cabinet ministers participated together with former President Kazys Grinius, Bishop Vincentas Brizgys and others. \n\nMinisters expressed distress at the atrocities being committed against the Jews, but advised only that \"despite all the measures which must be taken against the Jews for their Communist activity and harm done to the German Army, partisans and individuals should avoid public executions of Jews.\" According to Lithuanian-American Holocaust historian Saulius Sužiedėlis, \"none of this amounted to a public scolding which alone could have persuaded at least some of the Lithuanians who had volunteered or been co-opted into participating in the killings to rethink their behavior.\" Lithuanian paramilitary battalions formed by the LAF and Provisional Government (known as Lithuanian TDA Battalions) were eventually enlisted by the Nazis to help carry out the Holocaust.\n\nThe Reichskommissariat Ostland, German Civil Administration (\"Zivilverwaltung\") was established on July 17. Instead of using brute force, the Civil Administration slowly removed the government's powers (for example, did not allow to print its decrees in newspapers or broadcast radio announcements) and supplanted its institutions, forcing the Provisional Government to either self-disband or to become a puppet institution. Willing to cooperate if that meant recognition and some semblance to autonomy, the government did not agree to become an instrument of German occupation. The government self-disbanded on August 5 after signing a protest for the Germans actions of suspending the Lithuanian Government powers. Members of the Provisional Government then \"in corpore\" went to the Garden of the Vytautas the Great War Museum, where they laid wreath near the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier in the presence of numerous audience. Sicherheitsdienst confiscated the pictures of the wreath-laying ceremony, thinking that it could be dangerous for the German occupation policy in Lithuania.\n\nThe Lithuanian TDA Battalions were soon taken over by Nazi officials and reorganized into the Lithuanian Auxiliary Police Battalions (Lithuanian version of \"Schutzmannschaft\"). The original TDA eventually became the 12th and the 13th Police Battalions. These two units took an active role in mass killings of the Jews in Lithuania and Belarus. Based on the Jäger Report, members of TDA murdered about 26,000 Jews between July and December 1941.\n\nLater Juozas Ambrazevičius actively participated in the anti-Nazi underground, four members of the Provisional Government were imprisoned in the Nazi concentration camps.\n\nThere are allegations by certain journalists that, in 1973, a Committee of the United States Congress made conclusions that there is no Prime Minister of the Provisional Government Juozas Ambrazevičius' and Jonas Šlepetys' guilty in the Holocaust in Lithuania. It is also known that in the summer of 1944 Ambrazevičius left for Germany, and in 1948 for the United States, where he edited a Catholic daily, \"Darbininkas\", and continued his work in the Supreme Committee for the Liberation of Lithuania in exile. He published a number of leaflets illustrating German and Soviet crimes in Lithuania and the Lithuanian resistance, for example, \"In the Name of the Lithuanian People\" (1946) and \"Appeal to the United Nations on Genocide\" (1951). In 1964 he published a book \"Alone, all alone\" about the Lithuanian armed resistance. The Kremlin actively opposed his activities. In the 1970s he became a subject of interest for the Soviet media and American hunters of Nazi colloborators, who accused him of having worked for the Third Reich. In reply, he published an extensive dossier of his World War II activities.\n\nDuring the 2012 reburial ceremony of the Juozas Ambrazevičius remains in Kaunas, adviser to Lithuanian Prime Minister Andrius Kubilius also noted that a 1975 investigation by US Immigration found no evidence of Ambrazevičius/Brazaitis being involved in anti-Semitic or pro-Nazi activities. However, according to a subsequent clarification issued in 2019 by the Foreign Affairs Committee of the US Congress, the investigation was not conclusive and did not amount to a \"rehabilitation\" of Ambrazevičius/Brazaitis. The investigation into his wartime activities was discontinued after Ambrazevičius/Brazaitis passed away in 1974.\n\n"}
{"id": "1885356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885356", "title": "John Hughes", "text": "John Hughes\n\nJohn Hughes may refer to:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1885357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885357", "title": "Clinker brick", "text": "Clinker brick\n\nClinker bricks are partially-vitrified bricks used in the construction of buildings.\n\nClinker bricks are produced when wet clay bricks are exposed to excessive heat during the firing process, sintering the surface of the brick and forming a shiny, dark-colored coating.  Clinker bricks have a blackened appearance, and they are often misshapen or split. Clinkers are so named for the metallic sound they make when struck together.\n\nClinker bricks are denser, heavier, and more irregular than standard bricks. Clinkers are water-resistant and durable, but have higher thermal conductivity than more porous red bricks, lending less insulation to climate-controlled structures.\n\nThe brick-firing kilns of the early 20th century—called brick clamps or \"beehive\" kilns—did not heat evenly, and the bricks that were too close to the fire emerged harder, darker, and with more vibrant colors, according to the minerals present in the clay. Initially, these clinkers were discarded as defective, but around 1900, the bricks were salvaged by architects who found them to be usable, distinctive, and charming. Clinker bricks were widely admired by adherents of the Arts and Crafts movement.\n\nIn the United States, clinker bricks were popularized by the Pasadena, California architecture firm Greene and Greene, who used them for walls, foundations, and chimneys. On the East Coast, clinkers were used extensively in the Colonial Revival style of architecture.\n\nModern brick-making techniques do not produce clinker bricks, and they have become rare. Builders can procure clinkers from salvage companies; alternatively, some brickmakers purposefully manufacture clinker bricks or produce imitations.\n\nClinker is sometimes spelled \"klinker\" which is the contemporary Dutch word for the brick. Both terms are onomatopoeic, derived from the Middle Dutch \"klinkaerd\", later \"klinker\", from \"klinken\" (“to ring, resound”).\n\nClinker bricks are also known as Dutch paving bricks. In 18th century New York, the Dutch interspersed dark clinkers with regular bricks. Some used clinkers to spell out their family initials on brick dwellings such as the Jan Van Hoesen House.\n\nClinkers consist of bits and ends, field-late and white-burning or red-burning clays. Through different mixtures of the raw ingredients, many varied colour nuances can be achieved. For the production of masonry units the source materials—clay and water—are mixed and formed industrially in a string extrusion process. For special purposes, for example the restoration of listed buildings, hand-formed clinkers are used. During the drying process, the water concentration decreases to approximately 3%. Then clinkers are fired at temperatures between in a tunnel kiln (earlier in ring kilns), in contrast to the temperature range seen with normal bricks.\n\nIn Germany, clinker bricks (German: \"Klinkerziegel\") are named according to the German Institute for Standardization's DIN 105. They differ between \"full clinker\" (KMz) with a density of and \"high hole clinker\" (KHLz) with a density of . Because of their low porosity, clinker bricks are inferior thermal insulators, compared to normal bricks. \"Canal clinkers\" are named according to the German Institute for Standardization’s DIN 4051. Clinkers are frost resisting and, thus are suited particularly for facades. The formats of the clinker stones are named according to the German Institute for Standardization’s DIN 1053. Base for the different formats is the \"normal format\" (NF) with length , width and height . For facade layouts architects also order clinkers produced in special dimensions.\n\nFor use in facades, it is possible to cope varied shaped elements (e.g., clinker expressionism, see picture). Earlier clinkers were often used in civil engineering works, for example in bridge building, the construction of sewers and hydraulic structures, for mortar floodgates and hoppers or as paving stones for road construction.\n\nThe German sculptor Ernst Barlach worked with clinkers, which were produced according to his specifications, for example by the brickyard of Ilse Bergbau AG.\n\nClinker bricks take on a special colouring, often greenish tones, if burnt with peat. The Chilehaus and the Ramada Hotel in Hamburg are famous buildings built with peat-fired clinker. The last ring stove for peat-fired clinker still operating is in Nenndorf near Aurich (East Frisia), producing bricks marketed under the name “Wittmunder Torfbrandklinker” (peat-fired clinker of Wittmund).\n\nGreppiner Klinker (clinker of Greppin) is a hard-burnt yellow clinker brick. Greppin clinkers were mainly used for facing railway structures at the end of the 19th and in the early 20th centuries.\n\n"}
{"id": "1885364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885364", "title": "Twente", "text": "Twente\n\nTwente (, , Tweants dialect: \"Tweante\") is a non-administrative region in the eastern Netherlands. It encompasses the most urbanised and easternmost part of the province of Overijssel. Twente is most likely named after the Tuihanti or Tvihanti, a Germanic tribe that settled in the area and was mentioned by the Roman historian Tacitus. The region's borders are defined by the Overijssel region of Salland in the northwest and west (the river Regge roughly defines the western border), the German County of Bentheim in the northeast and east (the river Dinkel roughly defines the eastern border) and the Gelderland region of the Achterhoek in the south.\n\nTwente has approximately 620,000 inhabitants, most of whom live in its three largest cities: Almelo, Hengelo and Enschede, the latter being the main city of the region. It comprises fourteen municipalities: Almelo, Borne, Dinkelland, Enschede, Haaksbergen, Hellendoorn, Hengelo, Hof van Twente, Losser, Oldenzaal, Rijssen-Holten, Tubbergen, Twenterand and Wierden. The whole of Hellendoorn and the western parts of both Rijssen-Holten and Twenterand historically belong to the cultural region of Salland, but to the city region of Twente.\n\nVarious sources provide several explanations of the name \"Twente\". In his work \"Germania\", the Roman historian Tacitus mentions a tribe called \"Tvihanti\", who lived near or in present-day Twente. This same name was found on two altar stones found in the ruins of Vercovicium, a Roman guard post on Hadrian's Wall near present-day Housesteads in Northern England. The Tvihanti served in a Roman-Frisian cavalry unit that was stationed there.\n\nAnother explanation of the origins of the name, is that Twente was part of the Oversticht, a Medieval administrative construction which included the adjacent shires of Twente and Drenthe. As the name Drenthe is said to stem from *\"thrija-hantja\" meaning \"three lands\", Twente is said to stem from *\"twai-hantja\" or \"two lands\".\n\nAlthough Twente is the most urbanized part of the province of Overijssel, it is renowned for its scenic countryside. This is sometimes characterized as a bocage landscape, attracting many tourists from other parts of the country, with popular sights such as the Lutterzand on the meandering Dinkel, or the wide heather fields on the Frezenbaarg near Markelo. Twente is bisected from north to south by a range of hills in western Twente (Holterberg, Rijsserberg, Friezenberg, Nijverdalse Berg, Hellendoornse Berg), and hills in the east, with the Tankenberg near Oldenzaal being the highest point. The towns of Ootmarsum, and Oldenzaal to a lesser extent, are known for their scenic historical buildings, the latter of which has a noteworthy Romanesque church called \"Oale Grieze\" (the ‘Old Grey’), which is the oldest Romanesque church in the Netherlands. Eight Twents towns have obtained city rights: Almelo, Delden, Diepenheim, Enschede, Goor, Oldenzaal, Ootmarsum, and Rijssen.\n\nSince Twente's economy is to a great extent reliant on agriculture, this leaves its marks on the landscape, with lots of meadows and pastures, alternating with undergrowth, scrubs and copse. There are several fens, marshes and peat bogs, which long made Twente less accessible for the rest of the Netherlands, and which formed some natural defence. It also made the inhabitants of Twente incline towards the east (Westphalia and Münster, more precisely) in trade, politics and fashion, rather than to the more western parts of the Netherlands.\n\nGeologically, Twente is one of the most interesting areas of the Netherlands. It has strata (earth layers) from various eras concentrated in a relatively small area. There is an open stone quarry at Losser, while there are several salt mines at Hengelo and Boekelo. The western Twente town of Nijverdal is the only place in the Netherlands where gold was ever found.\n\nTwente is largely reliant on agriculture, next to services, and to a lesser degree on tourism. The improved national image of Twente has stimulated an increase in sales of regional products. One of the largest Dutch beer breweries, the Grolsch Brewery, is in Twente.\n\nTwente has many construction companies, most notably in the town of Rijssen, which houses over twenty companies in construction and related services, such as electricity, plumbing, and insulation. Some north-western Twents villages, such as Westerhaar-Vriezenveensewijk, are known for their many inhabitants employed in road engineering. A number of construction companies have set up or invested in offices overseas, such as in the US and Asia.\n\nNext to aforementioned occupations, many Twents people are engaged in the transport sector. The second half of the twentieth century saw an explosive increase in the number of freight transportation companies.\n\nThe flag of Twente is a bright red cloth with a white rampant horse, which is believed to be derived from the Saxon Steed, the rampant horse in the coats of arms of Westphalia and Lower Saxony, also introduced in the (modern) coat of arms of the English county of Kent.\n\nIn the more rural parts of Twente, a notion called \"noaberskop\", which may be roughly translated as \"neighbourship\", is deemed of great importance. In short, \"noaberskop\" involves neighbours looking after each other or giving good counsel whenever a neighbour asks for advice. For instance, it may include collecting each other's mail and watering plants and flowers while the other family is on holiday and looking after each other's pets. \"Noaberskop\" is regarded a matter of rights and obligations. A neighbour may for instance call on another neighbour for help if something needs to be repaired or otherwise taken care of, but it is very indecent to refuse if the other neighbour then asks for a favour in return. Neighbours are expected to help each other preparing wedding celebrations, funerals, birthday parties, etc. Though modern social security service has reduced the need for strong \"noaberskop\" bonds, some communities do appreciate newcomers adapting to these old customs and \"making neighbourship\" with the others, and not fulfilling \"noaberskop\" duties may be still regarded a grave offence.\n\nA number of traditional cultural practices have been preserved in Twente, such as blowing mid-winter horns around Christmas and burning Easter fires. Twente is also known for its considerable number of so-called \"klootsketersverennigings\" (road bowling associations), which is commonly considered the \"local traditional sport\".\n\nIn the small town of Ootmarsum, a tradition known as \"vlöggeln\" is practised annually around Easter. Firstly, a group of eight young bachelors called \"Poaskearls\" (Easter Men) are selected. On Easter morning, the \"Poaskearls\" form a human chain by joining hands. They go through some of the houses of the town while singing psalms, after which the other inhabitants and other spectators may join the chain. After a while, the chain halts in the town centre, where fathers may lift their young children three times, while shouting \"Halleluja\". The gathering continues towards the fields, where a large Easter Fire has been built by the community. The gathering sings a psalm and then the \"Poaskearls\" light the bonfire. It is commonly believed to be a Roman Catholic adaptation of a pre-Christian fertility tradition.\n\nAn extravagant carnival is celebrated in Oldenzaal, which, like the most of eastern Twente has a considerable group of Roman Catholics. The west of Twente is mainly Protestant.\n\nToday, Twente has one of the Netherlands’ largest exile communities of Assyrians.\n\nAlthough Twente has always been part of larger cultural areas, borrowing and adopting food traditions, there are a number of traditional \"typically Twents\" dishes and snacks. One of the nationally most-renowned foods from Twente is the \"kreantewegge\". This is a type of currant bread, that is traditionally baked to celebrate the birth of children. The \"kreantewegge\" was usually a long loaf, sometimes extending over as much as one meter, cut into thick slices. It is currently still a popular accompaniment with a cup of coffee, though it is no longer exclusively linked to child birth.\n\nAnother typically Twents food is \"bakleaverworst\" (roughly translated as \"baked liver sausage\"), mostly abbreviated to \"bakworst\". This is a spicy pork sausage, usually approximately 15 cm in diameter. The sausage is cut into 1 cm slices and baked. It is not usually served for dinner, but is often eaten for lunch, on a sandwich. It is mainly a seasonal product; as it is a hot and hearty snack, it is only available during the winters.\n\nThere are several dishes that are often termed \"typically Twents\", although they are not much served today. Examples include \"stip in de pan\" and \"balkenbriej\".\n\nPerhaps the best internationally known beverage from Twente is Grolsch lager. Though it is originally from the town of Groenlo which is in the adjacent Achterhoek region, the brewery moved to Boekelo near Enschede. It is therefore currently often considered a Twents brand. A relatively new brand of lager, Twents Bier, is brewed in the town of Beckum. Twente also has a longstanding tradition of distilling bitters. There are many locally distilled bitters, which are often produced and consumed for special occasions and celebrations. Often, they aren't for sale outside the home village.\n\nThough Twents families traditionally ate potatoes, vegetables and meat for dinner, the influx of many immigrants from all over the world to Twente, who brought with them their own food traditions, has broadened the average Twenteman's nutritional horizon.\n\nTwente is mainly a rural area with a number of urban centres. The Saxon heritage of Twente is reflected in the design of more traditional farms and residential houses. Twente has the only remaining \"lös hoes\" in the Netherlands (literally ‘loose house’), a type of construction design that was previously common throughout the east of the Netherlands and the north of Germany. A \"lös hoes\" consisted mostly of one room in which both humans and livestock lived together. The roofs, which are relatively large in comparison to contemporary houses, making up approximately 2/3 of the entire height, were mostly thatched and supported by a frame of thick beams. The TwentseWelle museum in Enschede has reconstructed a \"lös hoes\" on their premises. Many contemporary houses are designed with Twents Saxon elements, such as thatched roofs, wooden planks to decorate the gables, and \"gewelteekns\" (gable signs), which are wooden planks shaped with several stylised symbols, such as a tree of life, cross, anchor and heart, a sun wheel, and two rampant horses. These \"gewelteekns\" are mounted vertically onto the ridge of the house at the front and the back gable. The symbols are believed to either invoke prosperity or ward off misfortune.\n\nMany construction companies have their origins, or main office, in Twente. Especially in the town of Rijssen, which houses over twenty more or lesser known construction companies next to companies that provide related services, such as plumbing, building insulation and electricity. This makes Twente an attractive place for architects.\n\nA well-known piece of architecture is found in the town of Goor, where a construction engineering company has built their main office in the style of Friedensreich Hundertwasser, who was known for using lively colours and natural forms.\n\nThe local language variety is \"Twents\". It is a dialect of the Westphalian branch of the Low German language group, which, together with Limburgs, is one of the two officially recognised regional languages of the Netherlands. Twents is spoken in all parts of Twente, but may vary from village to village in pronunciation or lexicon, though such varieties are mutually intelligible and form part of the Low German dialect continuum. Dialects are often divided into two main categories, namely East-Twents and Twents-Groafskops, though the differences are largely insignificant. The dialects work as a certain shibboleth; minor accent differences help speakers define others' place of origin. As a result, speakers do not usually refer to their dialect by the umbrella term \"Twents\", but rather by the name of their local variety. Speakers from Markelo, for instance, may call their dialect \"Maarkels\", whereas speakers from Overdinkel may state that they speak \"Oaverdeenkels\".\n\nAlthough the dialect has been stigmatised for a considerable period over the last century, leading to a decline in use, interests in preserving and promoting the use of it are currently rising, resulting in initiatives such as dialect festivals, writing competitions and other culturally engaging projects. The municipality council of Rijssen-Holten holds one conference per year in dialect, and in 2008 declared their desk workers officially bilingual, to lower the threshold for the inhabitants of Rijssen who feel more comfortable in speaking Twents, rather than Dutch. Other municipality councils have recently indicated that they are willing to try dialect conferences, such as the municipalities of Hellendoorn and Wierden.\n\nThe former Van Deinse Instituut, which is now incorporated in the TwentseWelle museum, is involved in researching the past and present of Twente. It is located in Enschede and studies the regional culture, folklore, language, cultural history and landscape of Twente. It also collects, maintains, studies and displays an extensive collection of material from the history of Twente, with a full-size historic Twents \"lös hoes\" (‘open house’, a farmhouse without separate rooms, where both livestock and humans lived together) as one of its main attractions. The museum has designated a specific part of its premises for the Twentse Taalkamer (‘language room’), where visitors may become (further) acquainted with the language.\n\nTwents is largely mutually intelligible with dialects from surrounding areas, such as Achterhooks to the south, Sallaands in the west, Groafschupper Platt and Münsterlandic across the Dutch-German border.\n\nOn a professional level, Twente houses one football club that play in the national Eredivisie league: FC Twente from Enschede, the latter of which is one of the most successful sides of recent years, having won the Eredivisie title in 2010 and the KNVB Cup in 2011. Twente is also the home region of Olympic Gold swimmers such as Marleen Veldhuis and Hinkelien Schreuder, and of internationally renowned equestrians (horse driving and horse jumping), such as Jeroen Dubbeldam, Gerco Schröder and Jos Lansink.\n\nA number of well-known bicycle racing pros are from Twente, including Bram Tankink, Tom Stamsnijder and Joost Posthuma.\n\nOn an amateur level, many people participate for leisure in popular team sports with local clubs, such as handball, tennis, soccer and volleyball.\n\nA local traditional sport, \"klootskeetn\", which is similar to Irish road bowling, has seen an increase in interest over the last decades. It is mainly played for leisure or for cultural engagement. There are, however, a number of (semi)-professional \"klootsketer\" clubs. It is a popular activity for staff trips.\n\nAadorp -- Albergen -- Beckum -- Beuningen -- Boekelo -- Borne -- Bornerbroek -- Breklenkamp -- Buurse -- Daarle -- Daarlerveen -- Delden -- De Lutte -- Denekamp -- Deurningen -- Diepenheim -- Enschede -- Enter -- Fleringen -- Glanerbrug -- Goor -- Haaksbergen -- Hengelo -- Hengevelde -- Lattrop -- Lonneker -- Losser -- Mander -- Markelo -- Oldenzaal -- Ootmarsum -- Overdinkel -- Rijssen -- Rossum -- Saasveld -- Tilligte -- Tubbergen -- Twekkelo -- Usselo -- Vasse -- Vriezenveen -- Vroomshoop (partly Salland) -- Weerselo -- Wierden -- Zenderen\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1885366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885366", "title": "Finlandia Hall", "text": "Finlandia Hall\n\nThe Finlandia Hall is a congress and event venue in the centre of Helsinki on the Töölönlahti Bay. The building, which was designed by architect Alvar Aalto, was completed in 1971. Every detail in the building is designed by Aalto. The designs were completed in 1962, with building taking place between 1967–1971. The Congress Wing was designed in 1970 and built in 1973–1975. In 2011, the building was expanded with new exhibition and meeting facilities.\n\nThe inauguration of the Finlandia Hall was celebrated on 2 December 1971. The inauguration concert included the first performance of Einojuhani Rautavaara's Meren tytär (‘Daughter of the Sea’) and Aulis Sallinen's Symphony (opus 24), as well as Sibelius's violin concerto with Isaac Stern as the violin soloist of the Helsinki Philharmonic Orchestra.\n\nPekka Suhonen, Petri Mustonen and Eeva-Kaarina Holopainen authored a comprehensive history of the Finlandia Hall, Events, People and Music which the Otava Publishing Company published in 2001.\n\nThe versatile and flexible meeting, exhibition, festival and concert facilities of the Finlandia Hall offer a setting for both large international congresses and small-scale meetings, and for various entertainment and public events. The Finlandia Hall has proved its ability to serve as a venue for several world congresses and as a forum for the world's top economic and political leaders. The building itself is a popular attraction visited by thousands of tourists from all over the world every year. The building is owned by the City of Helsinki.\n\nThe main feature of the Finlandia Hall building is a tower like section with a sloping roof. Alvar Aalto's idea behind the design was that a high empty space would provide better acoustics. A lattice ceiling hides the space to the audience but it allows the creation of the same deep post-echo as tall church towers. Aalto used marble in both indoor and outdoor surfaces as a contrast to black granite. For Aalto, marble was a tie to the Mediterranean culture, which he wanted to bring to Finland.\n\nFinlandia Hall features an optical illusion: the National Museum building on the other side of the street seems to rise from the edge of the Finlandia Hall tower. The effect is created by a black trapezium on the white marble surface of the Finlandia Hall tower. The trapezium has been measured to fit the rising tower of the National Museum when the Finlandia Hall is viewed from the eastern shore of the Töölönlahti Bay. Aalto liked to create optical illusions. Another example of this can be found on the pedestrian path behind the library building of the Helsinki University of Technology (current Aalto University) in Espoo.\n\nThe interior design of the building is a tribute to detail. The design of each lamp, piece of furniture, panel, flooring material and decorative board reflects the mature approach resulting from Aalto's long career as an architect. All the materials speak the language of nature, simply without technically artificial tones. This is because Aalto's basic view was that architecture should create a frame for human beings. In the Finlandia Hall, the focus is not on extraordinary forms or ostentatious interior. It is on the audience and on the performers. According to Aalto, the audience at the Finlandia Hall need not dress up like people used to in the opera foyers and gilded concert halls of the old days. What people wear should be as genuine and natural as the environment in the building.\n\nThe main building houses the Main Auditorium (seats 1700), Helsinki Hall (seats 340), Terrace Hall (seats 250), Elissa Hall (seats 130), Aurora Hall (seats 894), Veranda (seats 1700) and Finlandia Restaurant, as well as Cafe Veranda (open to the public) and Galleria Veranda.\n\nThe interior of the Finlandia Hall displays many themes that are typical of Aalto. The Main Auditorium was originally designed as a concert hall, and it is a simplified version of the concert hall in the Aalto Theatre, i.e. the Essen Opera House in Germany.\n\nThe Main Auditorium has been a popular venue for meetings, congresses, festivities, concerts and events from the very beginning. The Auditorium seats 1700 people, 1200 in the stalls and 500 in the balcony. The floor is oak parquet and the blue sections of the wall are Finnish birch. The stage is 14 metres wide. It consists of several modular platforms. In the middle, there is an elevator to the storage rooms located on two floors underneath the stage. The curtain is designed by Dora Jung, a Finnish textile designer.\n\nThe Main Auditorium has served as a venue for several international summit meetings, for instance for the meeting of the Second Stage of Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe in 1975, which was attended by General Secretary Brezhnev from the Soviet Union and President Ford from the United States. In the meeting, every second seat row was removed to accommodate desks for the participants.\n\nSeveral other heads of states have also given speeches in the Main Auditorium, e.g. President Ronald Reagan, President George H.W. Bush, General Secretary Mikhail Gorbachov, Pope John Paul II and the 14th Dalai Lama.\n\nThere has been a lot of discussion about the acoustics of the Main Auditorium. In the beginning, there were problems, mainly because Aalto wanted the space to be like a medieval church in which the acoustics are known to be good. The tower section shown here was fully open. In the reparations that took place later, the ceiling was lowered to its present height, and the height of the stage was increased by half a metre. The doors of the Main Auditorium are covered with material made of horsehair. The organ in the Auditorium, made by the Kangasala Organ Factory, was the first concert hall organ in Finland. The front section of the organ was also designed by Alvar Aalto.\n\nPiazza is a large foyer that has much natural light. The name goes back to Italy, the country that Aalto admired greatly, its market places and squares where people gathered to see each other. The colours are subdued and quiet. The floor or the foyer is covered with high-quality English wool carpeting.\n\nThe Helsinki Hall with its 340 seats and pleasant foyer is an excellent venue for various events. The Helsinki Hall has features that resemble the church hall that Aalto designed for Detmerode, Wolfsburg, Germany. Especially the roof is copied from it. The “panels” in the ceiling are American Oregon pine. A closer look at the walls of the Helsinki Hall shows that there is only one sharp angle in the Hall.\n\nThe Finlandia Restaurant consists of three dining rooms separated by movable walls. As a single space, the restaurant seats 380 people and accommodates a cocktail party for 650 people. Combining the restaurant and the adjoining foyer allows the arrangement of catering for almost 1300 people and cocktail parties for up to 2500 people.\n\nThe Congress Wing was completed in 1975. The special feature of the Congress Wing is the “waves” of the facade that give the building unique beauty and vivacity. The outer walls of the Wing are not direct. They curve, following the form of the terrain. On the one hand, Aalto wanted to save most of the trees on the site, but on the other hand, he wanted to avoid the monotony of direct walls. The Congress Wing contains convertible halls A, B and C, as well as several (total 13) smaller meeting rooms.\n\nThe Veranda extension of the Finlandia Hall, which was completed in 2011, is a conversion of the covered parking lot and ramp on the Karamzininranta side of the main building. The main idea of the design was a feeling of a covered outdoor space, simple. light and neutral. For example, the original nature and material of the ceiling, wall and floor surfaces were not changed if possible. The construction work was implemented in cooperation with the Finnish National Board of Antiquities. The number of new fixed elements was minimised to allow the use of the space for a large number of different functions, exhibitions, banquets, etc. The hall can be divided into spaces of various sizes by means of movable walls. Veranda's floor area, 2200 m2, provides meeting space for 240–310 people. It allows the arrangement of catering for 1000 people and cocktail parties for 1700 people. The main architect for Veranda is Jyrki Iso-Aho and the interior design is by Jaakko Puro Oy. Apart from design, the leading idea in furnishing is lightness, movability and suitability for various purposes. Veranda also houses Cafe Veranda, which is open to the public, and Galleria Veranda. Both Veranda and Cafe Veranda offer a good view to the Töölönlahti Bay.\nThe Finlandia Hall is operated by an independent company. On 1 June 2008, the management organisation of the Finlandia Hall was changed into a limited liability company, Finlandia-talo Oy. The whole share capital of the company is owned by the City of Helsinki. The Managing Director of the company is Johanna Tolonen.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1885367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885367", "title": "Enric Marco", "text": "Enric Marco\n\nEnric Marco (born 1921 in Barcelona) is an impostor who claimed to have been a prisoner in Nazi German concentration camps Mauthausen and Flossenbürg in World War II. He was awarded the Creu de Sant Jordi by the Catalan government in 2001 and wrote a book on his experiences. In 2005 he admitted his claims were false and returned his medal, after his deception was revealed by university researcher Benito Bermejo.\n\nMarco told Catalan TV: \"\"I wasn't in a concentration camp. I was held in captivity and the Nazis did impose penalties on me. But that does not exonerate me from being an impostor.\"\" He said he was released after being mistreated for several weeks and returned to Spain in 1943. Marco claimed he had volunteered in 1941 to work in Kiel for the Nazi war industry. In his made-up story called \"Memoir of Hell\" Marco wrote he had been involved in the French resistance and captured by the Gestapo in southern France.\n\nAfter 2001 Marco represented an association of survivors of the thousands of Spaniards who had truly been deported to Nazi concentration camps.\n\nIn the period 1978–1979 Marco, a metal worker, had been the General Secretary of the Spanish anarchist Union CNT (Confederación Nacional del Trabajo), from which he was expelled in 1980.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1885372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885372", "title": "Papal apartments", "text": "Papal apartments\n\nThe Papal apartments is the non-official designation for the collection of apartments, which are private, state, and religious, that wrap around a courtyard (the Courtyard of Sixtus V, \"Cortile di Sisto V\") on two sides of the third (top) floor of the Apostolic Palace in Vatican City.\n\nSince the 17th century the Papal Apartments have been the official residence of the Pope in his religious capacity (as Supreme Pontiff). Prior to 1870, the Pope's official residence in his temporal capacity (as sovereign of the Papal States) was the Quirinal Palace, which is now the official residence of the President of the Italian Republic. The Papal Apartments are referred to in Italian by several terms, including appartamento nobile and appartamento pontificio.\n\nThe apartments include about ten large rooms including a vestibule, a small studio office for the papal secretary, the pope's private study, the pope's bedroom in the corner of the building, a medical suite (which includes dental equipment and equipment for emergency surgery), a dining room, a small living room, and the kitchen. There is a roof garden and staff quarters for the nuns (German Benedictines) who run the Prefecture of the Pontifical Household (Papal Household). It is from the window of his small study that the pope greets and blesses pilgrims to Saint Peter's Square on Sundays. The private library has been described as a \"vast room with two windows overlooking Saint Peter's Square.\" The pope's private chapel occupies the top storey on the east side of the \"Cortile di Sisto V\".\n\nThe pope usually lives at the Papal Apartments except for the months of July to September, when the Papal Palace of Castel Gandolfo is the official summer residence. Three of the last five popes, John XXIII, John Paul I, and John Paul II, died in the Papal Apartments; the fourth, Paul VI, died at Castel Gandolfo, whilst the fifth, Benedict XVI resigned and lived at Castel Gandolfo before moving into his new residence within the Vatican.\n\nHowever, Pope Francis, after his election, declined to stay in the Papal Apartments in favor of his two-room residence in the Domus Sanctae Marthae. Similarly, he stayed in an apartment instead of the Bishop's Palace during his tenure as Archbishop of Buenos Aires.\n\nThe Papal Apartments are customarily renovated according to each new pope's preferences.\n\nPrior to the renovation in 2005, following the death of Pope John Paul II and the election of Pope Benedict XVI, the Papal Apartments had reportedly been in disrepair, with \"outmoded furnishings and lack of lighting\" and large drums placed in the false ceiling to catch water leaks. The 2005 renovation, carried out over three months while Benedict was in summer residence at Castel Gandolfo, included the building of a new library to accommodate Benedict's 20,000 books (placed in exactly the same order as in his previous residence), upgrading the electrical wiring (125-volt electrical outlets, phased out in Italy years prior, were replaced with 220-volt outlets) and plumbing (new pipes were installed to replace those \"encrusted with rust and lime\"). The heating system was repaired and the kitchen was refurbished, reportedly with new ovens, ranges, and other appliances donated by a German company. The floors, which are 16th-century marble slabs and inlay, were restored. The medical studio (\"hastily installed in the papal lodgings for the ailing John Paul II\") was renovated and expanded to include dental facilities, and the papal bedroom was completely redone. Wallpaper and other furnishings were put in throughout. The project was carried out by over 200 architects, engineers, and workers. Benedict also moved personal possessions to the Papal Apartments, including an upright piano.\n\nOn October 21, 2016, the Vatican announced that the Palace of Castel Gandolfo would now open to the general public as part of a museum. The palace was the final part of the Papal Apartments to open to the public over a two-year period.\n\n"}
{"id": "1885374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885374", "title": "MGC-New Life Christian Academy", "text": "MGC-New Life Christian Academy\n\nMGC New Life Christian Academy is a Protestant school situated in Lot 2, Block 18 University Park, Bonifacio Global City, Taguig City, Metro Manila, Philippines. The school principal is Helen Kwong Villanueva. The school offers courses of study from pre-nursery to Grade 12.\n\nEvery year, the school seeks and finds ways on how to help the needy. They hold in- and out-campus outreaches, usually before the Christmas season. The whole school body, including teachers, students, and staff, help during this event.\n\nMakati Gospel Learning Center (MGLC) and New Life Foundation Learning Center (NLFLC) were established in 1991 to give Christian education. The school's foundation day is celebrated every July 3.\n\nEventually the schools were merged in 1997.\n\nIn 2001, MGC New Life celebrated its 10th anniversary, and the school presented the musical play, \"God Uses Kids\".\n\nOn December 22–23, 2004, MGC New Life held a Christmas play, \"The Christmas Lamb\".\n\nIn 2007 and 2008, MGC New Life's fourth-year high school students (batch 4 and batch 5) topped the Taguig City chapter of the National Career Assessment Examination.\n\nIn February 2008, MGC New Life celebrated its 17th year with the musical play, \"The Greatest Stories Ever Told\" at the AFP Theater.\n\nOn February 24, 2010, MGC New Life held a Thanksgiving Cantata in the Philam Life Auditorium. The cantata was \"The Little Drummer Boy\".\n\nOn January 28, 2012, MGC New Life held a Musical Event called \"Rise Up\" in celebration of their 20th anniversary. There were two guests invited to perform, Mr. Shang Quan and Dr. Enoch Fernando. Students also got the chance to perform.\n\n\n2007 saw MGC New Life being granted a seven-year international accreditation from the Association of Christian Schools International (ACSI) and the Commission on International and Trans-Regional Accreditation (CITA), a joint venture that is the first for both organizations. The reorganization of CITA caused MGC New Life's accreditation to be absorbed into AdvancED, making it accredited by the North Central Association Commission on Accreditation and School Improvement (NCA CASI).\n\nMGC New Life is the first school in the Philippines to be accredited by AdvancED and NCA CASI and the second school in the Philippines accredited by ACSI.\n\nhttps://mgcnewlife.ph/charlie/\n"}
{"id": "1885379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885379", "title": "OOM", "text": "OOM\n\nOOM or oom may refer to:\n\nOom is the style of calling a male person as an uncle.\n\n"}
{"id": "1885383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885383", "title": "Trois-Pistoles, Quebec", "text": "Trois-Pistoles, Quebec\n\nTrois-Pistoles is a city in Les Basques Regional County Municipality in the Bas-Saint-Laurent region of Quebec, Canada. It is also the county seat. The town is located on the south shore of the Saint Lawrence River.\n\nA ferry crosses the river to Les Escoumins on the north shore. The port facilities are also used by fishing boats and scuba divers.\n\nThe town is the site of the University of Western Ontario's annual French immersion program, which has existed since 1932. It is the oldest such program in Canada.\n\nJust offshore of the town lies Île aux Basques, an island that was used by Basque whalers in the 16th century. The island, part of the surrounding Municipality of Notre-Dame-des-Neiges, is a National Historic Site of Canada and is now a migratory bird sanctuary.\n\nThe town has hosted the \"Festival Échofête de Trois-Pistoles\", an environmentalism-themed music festival and fair each July since 2002. It is Quebec's largest environmental festival.\n\nThe town can be reached by Via Rail on the named train The Ocean, between Montreal and Halifax.\n\nThe town is said to have been named for a silver goblet worth three pistoles, an old French coin, that was lost in the river in the 17th century.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1885384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885384", "title": "Telenet (Belgium)", "text": "Telenet (Belgium)\n\nTelenet Group is the largest provider of cable broadband services in Belgium. Its business comprises the provision of analog and digital cable television, fixed and mobile telephone services, primarily to residential customers in Flanders and Brussels. In addition, Telenet offers services to business customers all across Belgium and in Luxembourg under its brand Telenet Solutions.\n\nSince 11 October 2005, Telenet has been listed on the Euronext stock exchange under the ticker TNET.\n\nTelenet has offered its residential service since 1997 under the brand name Telenet Internet through the combination of its broadband cable network, which passes some 2.4 million homes in Flanders and a part of the Brussels region. All of the networks through which Telenet offers residential services in Flanders have been upgraded to a two way digital hybrid fibre-coaxial (HFC) standard, and Telenet has direct relationships with all of its Internet and telephony customers.\n\nIts main competitors on the cable broadband Internet market are Numericable and VOO in the Brussels region, and Belgacom, the leader of the Belgian DSL market in the Flanders and Brussels regions.\n\nTelenet also offers voice, data and Internet services to its business customers under the brand name Telenet Solutions through its optical fiber backbone, by its acquisition of Codenet, which covers all of Belgium and Luxembourg.\n\nThrough its acquisition of Sinfilo, Telenet acquired a large network of Wi-Fi hotspots in addition to its cable Internet service.\n\nIn December 2016, Telenet submitted a proposal for the acquisition of SFR Belux from Altice, which has been authorized June 20th 2017.\n\nIn January 2008, Telenet acquired Hostbasket, Belgium's largest hosting company, to offer services appropriate for organisations and companies. Hostbasket offers \"classic hosting\" (domain names, shared webhosting, online backup, antivirus), infrastructure (dedicated servers, co-location) and applications (hosted Exchange, hosted SharePoint, hosted CRM).\n\nSince 1998, Telenet has offered fixed telephony using its cable network under the brand name Telenet Freephone. In 2008, it has more than 600,000 customers.\nIts main competitors on the Belgian fixed telephone market are Numericable and VOO in Brussels, using optic fibre. Its other main competitor is Proximus, leader of the Belgian DSL market.\n\nIt has released FreePhone Mobile in November 2011. This is a free option which allows its customers to call all mobile lines for free during the morning and evenings. An extra option called FreePhone Mobile 24 is available as well. This allows customers to call mobile lines all day.\n\nSince July 2006, Telenet Mobile offers mobile telephony services as a full MVNO, using the Mobistar MNO-network (now Orange Belgium). Today it has more than 80,000 customers. It competes with the mobile network operators Proximus, owned by the Belgian state owned telecommunications company Proximus Group.\n\nIn 2009, Telenet acquired the Belgian retail store network of BelCompany from the Dutch Macintosh Retail Group.\n\nIn 2011 Telenet and Voo formed a new company, Telenet Tecteo BidCo, to participate in the auction for obtaining the fourth 3G license on the Belgian market. As there were no other bidding parties they obtained this license for €71.5 million.\n\nIn 2015 Telenet acquired the mobile operator Base from its previous owner KPN for €1.325 billion.\n\nTelenet launched Telenet Digital TV interactive television on its cable television network on 3 September, 2005.\n\nSince 2012-2013 cable customers need not pay an extra subscription to receive digital TV, but they must purchase or rent a set-top box in order to view the digital TV channels and to use the interactive services based on the Multimedia Home Platform.\n\nTelenet also rolled out high definition television services during 2008.\n\nIn July 2008 Telenet reached an agreement with Interkabel's INDI regarding the acquisition of its 800,000 cable TV customers.\n\nIts main competitors on the Belgian digital television market (DVB-C) are Numericable and VOO in the Brussels region. Other competitors are Proximus TV IPTV and TV Vlaanderen Digitaal (DVB-S/DVB-T2), owned by Proximus and an Airbridge Investments -Providence Equity Partners consortium, in the Flanders and Brussels regions.\n\nTelenet and North American digital media & broadcasting company Vice Media both launched a local version of US TV channel Viceland (itself owned by Vice) in Belgium on 2 March 2017.\n\nThe Digibox (standard high definition set-top box) and Digicorder (high definition personal video recorder) are made by Advanced Digital Broadcast.\n\nTelenet also offers several premium TV channel packs including:\n\n\nOn 21 June 2012, Telenet launched its pay TV digital terrestrial television based on DVB-T technology, called \"Teletenne\". The service has been closed down in 2014 due to low success.\n\nLiberty Global own a 57.8% stake in Telenet.\n\nTelenet is the principal sponsor of the Belgian football club KV Mechelen and a secondary sponsor of Club Brugge, another Belgian football club, and the Belgian Fidea Cycling Team. Both football clubs are active in the Belgian Pro League. Telenet is a title sponsor\nof the Telenet UCI Cyclo-cross World Cup from the 2016–2017 season.\n"}
{"id": "1885391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885391", "title": "Saint Stephen's High School", "text": "Saint Stephen's High School\n\nSt. Stephen's High School (), an Episcopalian school, is in the Binondo district of Manila. It is considered the first Christian Chinese school established in Luzon. The school offers courses of study from Pre-Kinder to Grade 12.\n\nOriginally known as St. Stephen's Girls' School, it was founded on July 22, 1917 by St. Stephen's Mission composed of the rector and the Chinese members of the church. Intended for girls, it was known as Seng Kong Hoe in the Chinese community and had 19 enrollees. The first class was held at a church property along Reina Regente Street.\n\nIn 1921, the school adopted the lavender and white colors its uniform. By 1925, the Elementary Department was established. Through the efforts of Bishop Mosher, Rev. Hobart Studley and S.C. Choy, a property in Calle Magdalena (now Masangkay Street) was bought in 1928. In 1939, the school moved to Calle Magdalena from its original location.\n\nA mission home and a 15-room building were constructed, with a renovated row of dormitory units. In 1941, the school put up a benefit program at the Rizal Stadium to raise more funds to help cover the cost of new construction. A new building on the La Torre side was completed in December 1941 which housed a library, dormitory and new classrooms.\n\nBut on December 8, 1941, the school operations had to stop during the Japanese occupation in the Philippines. The Japanese military sealed off the school compound and the mission house was turned over to a Japanese doctor-director of St. Luke's Hospital. The occupants were forced to move out and the rooms were used for Japanese civilian patients.\n\nAmerican and British school staff became prisoners of war and were confined at the University of Santo Tomas. The new building, which was not yet used was demolished and its new materials and equipment taken. Chinese guerrilla units later took the mission house and used it as headquarters during the liberation from Japanese occupation.\n\nThe school reopened in December 1945 after the war under the direction of Huang Ong Bi Gim. St. Stephen's Girls' School offered its service to those unschooled for five years as contribution to the community and nation-building. Nancy L. Yao became the principal in 1946 and Constance Bolderston was the directress.\n\nRebuilding followed and it was officially renamed St. Stephen's High School. In 1963, a new five-storey high school building was completed. By 1969, an additional building with three storeys was built for elementary students. The old Mosher Hall building on the high school campus was demolished in 1980. A five-storey annex building replaced it and was completed in 1982.\n\nOld elementary school buildings were replaced by two new buildings, which were constructed in 1991 and 1994.\n\nSt. Stephen's is recognized by the Philippine Government as a Chinese Filipino school offering English, Filipino and Chinese subjects in the Preschool, Elementary and High School Departments. It is an accredited school of Association of Christian Schools, Colleges and Universities (ACSCU-AAI).\n\nAside from the classrooms, the school has modern facilities like the Auditorium, Stephenian Hall (a multi-purpose hall), Nancy L. Yao Library, Electronic Research Center, Speech Laboratory, Wai Ling Tan Audio-Visual Center, Guidance and Counseling Center, Science Laboratories, Journalism Room, Typing Room, Home Economics Room, Clinic, Scout Center, four Computer Laboratories, Music Room, Practical Arts Room, the CSG Gymnasium, Indoor and Outdoor Playground, and the Jimmy Go Swimming Pool.\n\nThe school has varsity teams in swimming, track and field, volleyball, table tennis and basketball. It hosted the 37th Season of the Women's National Collegiate Athletic Association (WNCAA) with the theme \"Victory Beyond Competition.\"\n\nSt. Stephen's is a venue for inter-school activities and competitions. The Stephenian Math Society hosts the Lord of the Math Inter-school Competition annually at the Stephenian Hall which began in 2005. The school has served as host for training sessions held by the Mathematics Trainers' Guild (MTG) for several years.\n\nThe school celebrated its historic 90th founding anniversary on July 22, 2007 with the theme \"God's Glory with Exceeding Joy!\" In celebration, St. Stephen's held its first Inter-school Extemporaneous Speech Competition, its first Earth Science Quiz, and three concerts: one in cooperation with the Biblical Seminary of the Philippines titled \"An Evening of Praise,\" featuring the Heavenly Melody Singers from Taiwan; a Thanksgiving concert titled \"Images of Christ\" in November 2007, directed by New York-based conductor Celia Yu Ong and famed director Chinggoy Alonso; and the Thanksgiving marimba concert, featuring alumnus Johnny Yu, Prof. Raul Sunico of the UST Conservatory of Music.\n"}
{"id": "1885395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885395", "title": "Haga", "text": "Haga\n\nHaga is a surname and place name common to Norway, Sweden and Japan. Haga may refer to:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1885399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885399", "title": "Peter Lang (guitarist)", "text": "Peter Lang (guitarist)\n\nPeter Lang (born January 6, 1948) is an acoustic guitarist who recorded for Takoma Records with John Fahey and Leo Kottke.\n\nPeter Lang was discovered in 1972 by guitarist John Fahey. Lang's first solo album, \"The Thing at the Nursery Room Window\", was released in 1973. With Lang, Fahey launched the careers of other notable artists on Takoma Records, including Kottke, George Winston, Robbie Basho, Bola Sete and others.\n\nIn the 70's Lang recorded or performed with Ry Cooder, Jerry Garcia, Chet Atkins, John Hartford, The Nitty Gritty Dirt Band, Emmylou Harris, Freddie King, The Paul Butterfield Blues Band, John Hammond, Keith Jarrett, Phoebe Snow, Maria Muldaur, The Yellowjackets, and Robben Ford.\n\nLang left music in the 1980s to pursue a career in animation and special effects production. He released the albums \"Dharma Blues\" in 2002 and \"Guitar\" in 2003. Both \"Lycurgus\" and \"Prime Cuts\" were re-released in 2003 with bonus tracks.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1885406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885406", "title": "John Hughes (Coventry North East MP)", "text": "John Hughes (Coventry North East MP)\n\nJohn Hughes (29 May 1925 – 14 August 2009) was Labour Member of Parliament (MP) for Coventry North East in the United Kingdom from 1987 to 1992.\n\nBorn in Tanfield Lea, County Durham, he served in the Royal Navy aboard during the Second World War. A former Durham and Keresley miner, storeman and transport union convener, in 1986 he successfully fought and received compensation following a claim of unfair dismissal as a result of his union activities from Austin-Rover's Unipart works in Coventry.\n\nMr Hughes served as a Coventry City councillor for the Holbrook Ward, and chair of the Coventry District Labour Party from 1977 to 1981. In his time on the Council, he was expelled three times from the ruling Labour group for defying the party whip over spending cuts, rent rises and school meal price rises.\n\nHe was MP for Coventry North East at a time when his Constituency Labour Party was the scene of particularly fraught left-right battles, even by the standards of the Labour Party in the 1980s. In 1985, the left wing won control of the CLP at the AGM. Hughes had not been particularly prominent in the period leading up to this, but he came out of political semi-retirement as an \"elder statesman\" figure to become CLP chair. A few weeks later the sitting MP, George Park, announced his intention to retire at the next election, if he had not done so there would probably have been an attempt to deselect him. The CLP then went into the procedure for selecting a parliamentary candidate. At the selection meeting the right wing voted for Hughes as he seemed the weakest of the left-wing candidates, mainly because he was aged 60 and so might only serve one term as an MP.\n\nHughes was elected at the 1987 general election at the age of 62, old for a first-time MP but by no means unknown. In his time as an MP he hit the headlines when, on Monday 11 January 1988, the Speaker ordered him out of the chamber, when during prayers he asked the clergyman not to bless the house in protest at the social impact of the government's policies. The focus of this protest was the case of Matthew Mulhall, a constituent of Hughes, whose condition required a life-saving operation by the end of February, 1988. The local hospital had repeatedly delayed the treatment that could save Matthew's life. Hughes, himself a practising Catholic, subsequently escaped punishment for his outburst by the Labour leadership. Then-Labour Chief Whip, Derek Foster went on to endorse the protest by Mr Hughes as \"utterly sincere.\" Hughes also attempted to have the law changed, preventing gas and electricity companies from cutting-off supplies of essential fuel and energy to individual homes. His Fuel and Energy Provision Bill was given its first reading on Wednesday, 27 July 1988, but progressed no further due to lack of time.\n\nIn the run up to the 1992 general election his Constituency Labour Party had shifted to the right, and it deselected him in favour of Bob Ainsworth. He fought the election as Independent Labour, polling 4,008 votes (8.5% of total votes cast).\n\n\"Times Guide to the House of Commons 1992\"\n"}
{"id": "1885419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885419", "title": "Rapsodie", "text": "Rapsodie\n\nRapsodie was an experimental nuclear reactor built in Cadarache in France.\n\nIt was France's first fast reactor, and first achieved criticality in 1967. Rapsodie was a sodium-cooled fast neutron loop-type reactor with a thermal output of 40MW and no electrical generation facilities, and closed in 1983.\n\nRapsodie was operated in conditions considered representative of a commercial plant in terms of temperatures (inlet , outlet ) and neutron flux (3.2e15n/cm/s), and served to prove many elements used in later, larger, breeder reactors.\n\nRapsodie operated for 15 years, and suffered two leaks, a sodium micro leak in 1978 that was so small it was never found, and a nitrogen gas leak in 1982.\n\nRapsodie is currently in Stage 2 decommissioning.\n\n"}
{"id": "1885434", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885434", "title": "Montmagny", "text": "Montmagny\n\nMontmagny may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1885440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885440", "title": "Cocktails for Two", "text": "Cocktails for Two\n\n\"Cocktails for Two\" is a song from the Big Band era, written by Arthur Johnston and Sam Coslow. The song debuted in the movie \"Murder at the Vanities\" (1934), where it was introduced by the Danish singer and actor Carl Brisson. Duke Ellington's version of the song was recorded in 1934 and was inducted into the Grammy Hall of Fame in 2007.\n\nThe song seems to refer to the ending of Prohibition in the United States. Mentioned discreetly in the song's introduction is that people could be \"carefree and gay once again\". The song was written in 1934, and the 21st Amendment, which ended Prohibition, was ratified in December of the previous year.\n\nEarly recordings in 1934 were also by Johnny Green and Will Osborne but \"Cocktails for Two\" is best remembered today due to the comic, sound effects-laden version by Spike Jones and His City Slickers. The Slickers first recorded it in 1944 with Carl Grayson supplying the vocal. It was their biggest all-time hit, reaching number 4 on the charts, according to Joel Whitburn. Sam Coslow hated Jones' irreverent treatment.\nEven so, the recording's success earned him large royalties.\n\nJonathan and Darlene Edwards (a comedy act by Paul Weston and Jo Stafford) also lampooned the song on their first LP, The Piano Artistry of Jonathan Edwards, released in 1957.\n\nBing Crosby recorded the song in 1955 for use on his radio show and it was subsequently included in the box set \"The Bing Crosby CBS Radio Recordings (1954-56)\" issued by Mosaic Records (catalog MD7-245) in 2009. \n\nOther covers include Zarah Leander's Swedish version for Odeon in 1934, Tommy Dorsey's swing version for Victor (#26145) on October 31, 1938,\nKeely Smith's version on her album \"Politely!\" (1958), and Ray Charles and Betty Carter for their album \"Ray Charles and Betty Carter\" (1961).\n\n"}
{"id": "1885452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885452", "title": "Service control point", "text": "Service control point\n\nA service control point (SCP) is a standard component of the Intelligent Network (IN) telephone system which is used to control the service. Standard SCPs in the telecom industry today are deployed using SS7, SIGTRAN or SIP technologies. The SCP queries the service data point (SDP) which holds the actual database and directory. SCP, using the database from the SDP, identifies the geographical number to which the call is to be routed. This is the same mechanism that is used to route 800 numbers.\n\nSCP may also communicate with an intelligent peripheral (IP) to play voice messages, or prompt for information to the user, such as prepaid long distance using account codes. This is done by implementing telephone feature codes like \"#\", which can be used to terminate the input for a user name or password or can be used for call forwarding. These are realized using Intelligent Network Application Part (INAP) that sits above Transaction Capabilities Application Part (TCAP) on the SS7 protocol stack. The TCAP is part of the top or 7th layer of the OSI layer breakdown.\n\nSCPs are connected with either SSPs or STPs. This is dependent upon the network architecture that the network service provider wants. The most common implementation uses STPs.\n\nSCP and SDP split is becoming a common industry practice. This is known generally in the industry by split architecture. Reason is that operators want to decouple the dependency between the two functionality to facilitate upgrades and possibly rely on different vendors.\n\n"}
{"id": "1885466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885466", "title": "King's College, Hong Kong", "text": "King's College, Hong Kong\n\nKing's College, often informally referred to simply as King's or K.C., is a single-sex boys' government-funded secondary school located at 63A Bonham Road, Mid-levels, Hong Kong. It currently serves as a secondary education institution for pupils in forms 1–6. King's College is highly selective, only accepting 8 per cent of applicants in 2012. On 2 December 2011, the Antiquities and Monuments Office declared King's College a monument under the Antiquities and Monuments Ordinance.\n\nKing's College predecessor was West Point School which was established at West Point next to the West Point Police Station in 1857. The boys' school was a free village school supported by the Government stand as well as one of the earliest government schools in Hong Kong.\n\nThere was such a great impetus to the study of English in the educational aspects in 1878 that Governor Hennessy advocated the enhancement of English Language and English speaking among the natives of Hong Kong. Hence, English teaching was introduced in the course of the year in Saiyingpun School and finally the establishment of a Method Class with a view to train the Chinese teachers of English for employment in the Village Schools was begun. The Acting Inspector of Schools stated that he felt confident that it would sooner or later be found necessary to enlarge the teaching staff in order to meet the demand for English teaching. Therefore, Saiyingpun School was established in 1879 because of the above policy. Indeed, among all the present government schools, it had the longest school history amounted to 159 years. West Point referred to the location of the shore off the Pokfulam Road and Queen's Road West, approximately the junction of Western Street and Des Voeux Road West near the Western Police Station.\n\nThe first Principal started from 1859 was Li King-chau, who died in 1870. Cha Lun-kok and Chu Atuk were the teachers. The latter was appointed to teach English in the school and also taught in Taipingshan Government School. The government recognised the Punti school had always been a very good school that led by the school master Mr. Li during the ten years. The school had been admirably taught and its academic work was well done. Although Geography as well as Composition was the weak subjects compared with other schools, all other aspects were very satisfactory. The Saiyingpun Punti School ranked as good in 1877.\n\nThe number of boys was 62 in 1859, separated into four classes. Girl students were admitted since 1868 in Punti whereas 1872 in Hakka section. In Punti section, the number increased a lot from the year of 1876 to 1878. The number of students in Punti section reaches 100 in the year of 1876. According to the statics recorded in the Hong Kong Government Gazettes and Blue Books from 1857 to 1879, the total number of students in the school increased steadily to 200 students approximately in the last few years. The students' attendance was also quite good during the years.\n\nThe hours of tuition are from 6 to 8 am, 9 a.m. to 12 p.m. and 1 to 4:30 pm. Hakka section was established in 1866 while the original one renamed as Punti section, the school divided into two sections respectively since then.\n\nThe Chinese Elementary Books, their Classics, Geography and the English Language are taught by competent native teachers. Moreover, several kinds of books are required to study in the government schools are as follows. Native books including Yau Hok, Trimetrical Classic, Thousand Character Book, Four Books, Five Classics and Chinese Grammar. Foreign books for instance New Testament, Muirhead's Geography, Do. History of England, Sacred History, Trimetrical Classic as well as Ten Commandments. English books for example Serious of Lessons, Morrison's Chinese-English Grammar, Circle of Knowledge and Geography. The Punti section increased from the fifth in 1868 to the second two years after in the order of efficiency between the government schools. The Hakka section was improving during the first several years of establishment.\n\nIn 1872, the school name changed from West Point School to Saiyingpun School. It relocated to 35–41 Third Street in 1879. It was one of the first batches of boys' government schools that provided junior Chinese and English education in various subjects. The first Principal (formally entitled \"Master\"), Mr. Fung Fu, received education in the US and was deeply influenced by the development of democracy in the West. During 1905, Mr. Fung held the post of a translator at the China Daily, a newspaper founded by local intellect Chen Shao-bai, Dr. Sun Yat Sen's dearest friend in his juvenile years.\n\nUpon establishment, Saiyingpun School provided education from the eighth grade to the fourth grade (equivalent to primary five to secondary three nowadays). The then-Inspector of Schools, Dr. Eitel, allowed parents to choose between letting their children be taught both English and Chinese or exclusively English. Among 61 students in 1879, 46 chose the latter. After a few months, with the exception of one student, all students came under an English-medium education.\n\nAccording to the Government Notification in 1880, the appraisal of the Education Bureau reported that Saiyingpun School had an outstanding performance, and thus was classified as \"Rank 1\". In 1880, Saiyingpun School operated with 74 students; by 1891 the total number of students amounted to 146. The campus in Third Street was no longer able to accommodate the increasing number of students. The school was relocated to 119 High Street.\n\nAccording to \"College Years of the Father of the Republic\" written by Professor Lo Heung-lam, Kong Wing-wen and Lau Sz Fuk, enrolled in the Hong Kong College of Medicine for Chinese in 1887, the same year as Dr. Sun Yat Sen started his college life there. According to an article published in the 2002nd issue of the \"Christian Weekly\", it stated that Kong and Lau used to be students in \"Saiyingpun Fung Fu School\". Lau graduated in 1895 with a degree in western medicine. The Master of Saiyingpun School between 1879 and 1903 was Mr. Fung Fu. With reference to his term of office, it is believed that the \"Saiyingpun Fung Fu School\" mentioned in the essay refers exactly to Saiyingpun School, that is currently King's College. If this assumption is correct, it is convinced to say that Lau Sz Fuk is among the earliest Kingsians ever to study western medicine.\n\nIn 1902, Mr. W. H. Williams took over as the Master of Saiyingpun School. In June 1905, Mr. Alfred Morris replaced Mr. W. H. Williams as the Master, the latter was transferred to Victoria British School earlier in January that year. During Master Morris' tenure, the number of students rose in 1906 to 490 and the school campus was inadequate to facilitate studies and extra-curriculum activities of the students. In the Report of the Inspector of Schools published in 1905, Saiyingpun School students were rated \"excellent\" in English writing. According to the 1905 Report of the Inspector of Schools, after Master Morris took office, he immediately made the school start early even during the winter time to ensure students had enough time for extra-curricular activities like visits and swimming in the afternoon.\n\nThere are only fragments about the subject curriculum of Saiyingpun School from the Hong Kong Government Administrative Reports. For instance, in the 1922 Report, it was stated that students in Saiyingpun School excelled in map reading, handwriting, English conversation and composition. For extra-curricular activities, apart from volleyball, football, swimming and picnic activities, the 1922 Report stated that students were charity enthusiasts as well. Students raised a total of $800 for the Swatow Relief Fund. The scout team also helped Charitable Association to raise a total of $11,000. Students also received recognition in their extra-curriculum activities, for example, the Ambulance Division got Distinction of Winning Ralph Shield(Report of Director of Education).\n\nIn 1921, the government reserved $50,000 for the construction of the new school. The chosen location was 63A Bonham Road. According to the Heritage Appraisal of King's College on the AMO's webpage, the school was given an honourable new name, \"King's College\", named after reigning King George V of the United Kingdom. When the construction was completed in March 1926, the seventh and the eighth classes first moved into the new school. Then in September, the whole school was relocated. From then on, when students completed the fourth class and obtained a qualification from the Junior Graduation Examination, they could be promoted to the third class in King's College instead of having to be transferred to the senior levels at Central School.\n\nThe college now stands on what was once holy ground, being the site of a Roman Catholic church named St. Anthony's built in 1892 'ex voto'. St. Anthony's was later demolished and replaced by an eponymous church in Pokfulam Road, which still stands today. Beside St Anthony's stood the Sacred Heart Chapel (1864–1892). This was built a few years before St Anthony's was built by the architect Mr. M.A. D'Aquino, and blessed in March 1879. The land jointly occupied by the church and the chapel was named Inland Lot 755, and was the property of the Roman Catholic Church. Sometime after the construction of St Anthony's, probably because having two churches in such close proximity was seen as an inefficient use of holy land, the Sacred Heart Chapel was converted into an orphanage and school under the care of the Canossian Sisters – the Ling Yuet Sin Kindergarten of the present day. In 1920 the prologue to the school's story was written. It took the form of a requisition order by government authorities for a portion of Inland Lot 755, the section where the Church of St Anthony stood.\n\nIn 1923, foundations were laid and construction work began. Site formation, the foundation works and construction of retaining walls were undertaken by Messrs. Foo Loong & Co. in the same year and the superstructure was erected by Messrs. Kin Lee & Co. in 1924. After three years of construction, the works were completed in 1926. The Saiyingpun School moved to the new campus in the same year and was upgraded to King's College and accepted. In September, the qualified pupils from Saiyingpun School transferred to the new college. The College was named in honour of King George V. A portrait of the king is exhibited in the college's building. The governor reported king's college as one of the chief schools.\n\nThe Hong Kong Administrative Report of 1926 described King's College as \"one of the finest and most modern of school buildings with 29 classrooms, staff and common rooms, the latest sanitary arrangements, hat and cloak rooms, a museum and library, an art room, physics and chemistry laboratories, a workshop, swimming pool and dressing rooms, gymnasium, covered playground, fire fighting appliances and the usual complement of storerooms and offices\".\n\nFour months later, from February to December, the building was commandeered for use as a military camp-cum-hospital for the British Shanghai Defence Force dispatched to protect British subjects in the British Section of the Shanghai Treaty Port. In 1928, the building was returned to King's College, which was officially opened by the Governor, Cecil Clementi, on 5 March.\n\nBuilt around the three sides of a square, the building comprised a north wing, a south wing and an east wing. The tower above the main entrance dignified the general appearance of King's College whereas the dainty school garden further enhanced its beauty.\n\nThere was a museum housed in the library and the layout of classrooms was somewhat different from now. There were 29 classrooms, accommodating 30 students each, a playground and a swimming pool. Each floor had a cloakroom with enough space for hats, umbrellas, and baskets. The laboratories were then on the top floor of the north wing, above the gymnasium. On the middle floor of the same wing was the art room and library. The swimming pool was filled with filtered water. The playground consisted of a jumping pit and one court each for basketball, volleyball and tennis.\n\nEach pupil was allotted a numbered desk and the total capacity was 720 students. The school year began on 1 November and ended on 31 July. School fee for Classes 8, 7, 6, 5 and 4 was $60 per annum, payable in 12 instalments of $5 each, and $120 per annum, $10 for each instalment, for Classes 3,2 and 1. In addition, each pupil was charged a medical fee for $3 per year. From 1926 to 1930, it was a full-day school but thereafter changed to a half-day one, with activities in the afternoon. The first issue of the College magazine appeared in 1935, shortly after William Kay became Headmaster.\n\nDuring the first fifteen years, the school followed the old system of class organisation with eight classes. Classes 8 and 7 (primary 5 & 6 respectively today) were primary ones, Class 6 equivalent to the present Secondary 1, and Class 2 the present Secondary 5. The enrolment stood at 840 boys. Above eighty percentages of staff came from British. Most of the teachers graduated from the two leading ancient universities in England – University of Cambridge and University of Oxford. King's College was one of the few well-developed English colleges.\n\nWhile the school was enjoying its prosperous days, the Pacific War broke out after the Pearl Harbour Incident in December 1941. King's College was used as a first aid station, having been fully equipped as such by the first principal, A. Morris St. John's Ambulance. When Hong Kong was occupied by the Japanese on Christmas Day, King's College was used as a military mule and horse stable for the Japanese Army. Teachers like Messrs, Coxhead and Ferguson were taken war prisoners, while the principal, Mr. Wallington, was sent to the prison in Stanley. Mr. Coxhead was later sent to a labour camp in Japan.\n\nThe war did immense damage to Hong Kong and King's College was not spared. All normal activities of the school came to a halt. The school building was virtually destroyed by looters during the last two weeks immediately after the withdrawal of the Japanese Army, and only an empty red brick skeleton of the building remained.\n\nIn 1945, some former teachers led by J.J. Ferguson and some old boys of King's College, revived the school. Subsequently, it moved back to Hollywood Road as Hollywood Road A.M. School.\n\nBefore the Japanese Occupation, King's College was a joint primary and secondary school. After the Second World War was over, the school campus had to be rebuilt due to the wartime destruction. On 18 September 1950, it was reopened with a new first floor and operated as a two-sessional primary school, namely King's College Primary School (KCPS) for a year. It had to share its premises with Northcote Training College Attached School. Mr. H. T. Woo was Headmaster. In 1951, the government gave a green light on additional buildings for King's College and decided to restore its status as a secondary school.\n\nIn September 1951, King's College was rehabilitated with C. W. Sargison as principal. Then for the first time in the school's history, girls were admitted, most of whom were promoted from the Primary School. Total enrolment of pupils was 640. Being a specialist in chemistry, Mr. Sargison had played a very important part in making King's College pre-eminent in sciences. Such image of a 'Science School' had branded King's ever since.\n\nThe building was shattered and destroyed in the war, and was later restored with additional portions. The first phase of re-development of the school buildings was completed by 1953 with the addition of two laboratories, a Preparation Room, a lecture Room, an art Room and five classrooms in the South and East Wings. The enrolment figure soared to 750. However, during the next five years, owing to slow pace of construction after the war of school buildings, King's College had again to share the premises successively with Grantham Training College and Queen Elizabeth School and operated only on a bi-sessional basis. It was not until 1960 that King's College started to be the sole user of the premises.\n\nIn 1954, Mr. C. W. Sargison was transferred to King George V School. He was succeeded by Mr. F.K. Leung MBE, an old boy of Saiyingpun School and a pupil of A. Morris, who made history by being the first Chinese principal of a government secondary school in Hong Kong. The school had restored the house system of prewar days. Instead of calling them North, South, East, and West, they are named after four former principals – Morris, Kay, Wallington, and Ferguson.\n\nIn the same year, an extra Secondary Upper Six was operated to make places available for students who planned to sit for the revised Hong Kong University Matriculation Examination. There were nineteen classes ranging from Form 2 to Upper 6 in total. Facilities of the school provided for the training of students doing the Hong Kong University Diploma of Education and of students from the Northcote Training College. The subjects taught are English, Chinese, Mathematics, Physics, Chemistry, Biology, Geography, History, Civics, Art, Music and Physical Training. In 1955, witnessed the first group of King's graduates, entering University after the war.\n\nThe pressing need for further expansion of the school finally received a positive response from the government. An additional floor was added to the South Wing and the two floors above the gymnasium were restored. Additionally, an extra floor was added on top of the East Wing in the front of the Hall gallery, which later became the library. The final stage of construction work was completed by December 1959 and fitting out of the new premises followed in the next few months.\n\nIt was during Coxhead's tenure of office (1960–1967) that King's College entered a new stage of alteration and progress. In 1963 Secondary Lower Six Arts classes were opened after a hiatus of several years. This restored the balance between Science and Arts classes though the demand for entrance to Science or Medicine classes was still greater. From 1966 onwards, girls were admitted only in Secondary 6.\n\nIn 1967 H.W. Clarke succeeded Coxhead as principal and it was during the next three years that King's witnessed a climax of academic attainment. In 1968 64 distinctions were obtained by King's College students in the Hong Kong University Matriculation Examination, an unprecedented achievement. By 1971, D.R. Madan was appointed principal and King's students continued to achieve magnificent feats in both academic and extracurricular fields.\n\nIn October 1977 K.F. Chu, an old boy who had graduated in 1938, became principal.\n\nThe fountain of the school garden was repaired and its pedestal was turned into a pond for the breeding of goldfish and various other species of carp. A Bauhinia tree was planted in the northern corner of the school garden while the palm tree planted in 1971 had grown to 3 storeys tall. In April 1986, a time capsule was buried in the school garden.\n\nIn September 1986, W.T. Poon succeeded Chu Ka Fai as principal and the entire enrolment soared to 1200. Poon was famed throughout the Education Department for being his lively and enthusiastic personality. With him came some great improvements in the school. A public address system was installed in the playground, which proved to be effective in developing a greater sense of unity in students. Under Poon's leadership, the students won the International Mathematics Olympiad Championship.\n\nFor the first time in the history of the school, study tours to Singapore and Malaysia were organised with part of the funds sponsored by the King's College Old Boy Association. Since then, study tours have proven popular with King's students. In March 1992 the first K.C. Student Union was formed after a democratic election.\n\nIn the transition year of 1997 in which the Handover took place, King's College was provided a chance to renew its oath to play a major role in the community of Hong Kong and China. Dr. Simon Li Fook Sean, and old boy of King's College, received the Grand Bauhinia Medal (GMB) from the HKSAR Government in acknowledgement of his stupendous contributions to Hong Kong and China. Dr. Li was among the first recipients of this award.\n\nFollowing the appointment of a new principal, Mr. Ho Yue Shun, in 1998, King's College has undergone massive changes, especially on the information technology front. King's was enlisted as one of the few secondary school participants in a pilot scheme for the application of IT in education. A sum of HK$6M was granted for the acquisition of hardware and the installation of King's College's own intranet. An Information Technology Open Day was launched, which was followed by the launch of the school website, school intranet and a renovated IT room complete with modern computer facilities. Professor Robert F. Curl, 1996 Nobel Laureate in Chemistry, visited King's College and met the senior students on 9 May 2002. On 29 October 2003, Professor Jean-Marie Lehn, Nobel Laureate in Chemistry, visited King's College and met the senior students. In 2010, Mr. Ho Yue Shun was succeeded by Mrs. Chan Woo Mei-hou. King's College is one of the few surviving pre-war government school buildings in Hong Kong.\n\nBuilt in 1926, the Bonham Campus of King's College is one of the oldest surviving pre-war government school buildings in Hong Kong. The red-brick school building in neo-classical style was originally built around the three sides of a square in 1926 and the whole building comprised a North Wing, a South Wing and an East Wing with a bell tower (now removed) above the colonnaded curved entrance porch at the junction of Bonham Road and Western Street. The three wings of the school building are arranged in collegiate style around a central courtyard which serves as the school playground to form a quadrangle.\n\nRed-brick Roman arched colonnades are applied along the facade and corridor on the ground floor of the South Wing and coupled columns form loggias on the first and second floors. Roman arched colonnades are also found on the front elevations of the East and North Wings.\n\nClerestory windows are found on the upper part of the bricked-up arches of the North Wing. Some doorways have Roman arches or flattened arches with fanlight glazing. The red-brick wall angles are emphasised with quoins.\n\nThe most impressive part of the school building is its circular entrance porch at the junction of Bonham Road and Western Street. The porch is supported by granite coupled columns with Ionic Order capitals featuring volute brackets and Italian Renaissance style side openings. A groin vault can be seen on the top floor of the entrance block which is rarely found in other school buildings.\n\nIn addition, the use of red bricks in school architecture decorated with relatively rich Neo-classical style features is rare in Hong Kong. The notable Neo-classical style features such as arched colonnades, colonnaded verandahs, rusticated quoins, moulded cornices and classical stone surrounds to the windows are found in King's College and make it an interesting piece of built heritage. The red-brick school building in Neo-classical style is a rare piece school architecture of its kind in Hong Kong.\n\nThe building which houses the college has evolved over the years since its establishment in 1926. It was once damaged in World War II and rebuilt and refurbished after the war. Since then the orthodox structure has reserved its current façades of grey granite columns against a background of crimson bricks, arched corridors and cavernous garden, an image widely held by its students and the public as an epitome of the college.\n\nThe red-brick school building in Neo-classical style is a rare piece of school architecture of its kind in Hong Kong. When the school building was built in 1926, it comprised an east wing, a south wing and a north wing with a bell tower (now removed) above the colonnaded curved entrance porch at the junction of Bonham Road and Western Street. The notable Neo-classical style features such as arched colonnades, colonnaded verandahs, rusticated quoins, moulded cornices and classical stone surrounds make it an interesting piece of built heritage. The current configuration of four wings frames a rectangular playground at the centre. Built on a sloping terrain, the south wing verandah shields student activities from stormy weather. The dainty school garden at the lower ground level facing Bonham Road enriches the school environment. It has become a declared monument in December 2011.\n\nA stone carving that depicts the royal coat of arms of the United Kingdom displayed on the red brick wall above the college's main entrance. It is the only royal coat of arms remaining in Hong Kong. The shield is quartered, depicting in the first and fourth quarters the three passant guardant lions of England; in the second, the rampant lion and double tressure flory-counterflory of Scotland; and in the third, a harp for Ireland. The crest is a statant guardant lion wearing the St Edward's Crown, himself on another representation of that crown. The dexter supporter is a likewise crowned English lion; the sinister, a Scottish unicorn. The coat features both the motto of English monarchs, Dieu et mon droit (God and my right), and the motto of the Order of the Garter, Honi soit qui mal y pense (shame upon him who thinks evil of it) on a representation of the Garter behind the shield.\n\nThe school building has undergone several extensive refurbishment and alterations over the years. During the Japanese Occupation, most part of the swimming pool, including its filter system, was damaged. Repair and reconstruction works to the school building were carried out after the Japanese Occupation. The bell tower and chimneys at the entrance block were removed in 1950 to make way for the erection of an extra floor to the South and East Wings. Reconstruction of the swimming pool was arranged from 1971 to 1972 with funding from the Old Boys' Association. The school garden was also refurbished and the fountain was reconstructed and upgraded around 2004. The authenticity of the school building has been compromised to some extent but its main architecture characters still remain without affecting its high architectural value.\n\nKing's College notable alumni list is composed of heavyweights, such as the \"father of OLED\" Ching W. Tang; the \"father of rehabilitation\" in Asia Sir Harry Fang; Hong Kong senior judge and politician Simon Li; Chief Executive Leung Chun Ying; Hong Kong media mogul George Ho and many other remarkable personages in the area.\n\nAlumni noted for their work in academia include \"father of OLED\" Ching W. Tang; the former Vice-Chancellor of the Chinese University of Hong Kong Ma Lin; the Chairman of the Chinese University of Hong Kong Norman Leung; American scientist and author Deborah Chung; the former Head of Department of Chinese at the University of Hong Kong Sin Chow-Yiu; the founder of the Centre on Behavioral Health of the Hong Kong University Cecilia CHAN Lai-wan.\n\nOther notable alumni include the \"father of rehabilitation\" in Asia Sir Harry Fang; Hong Kong senior judge and politician Simon Li; Chief Executive Leung Chun Ying; Secretary for Financial Services and the Treasury KC Chan; Hong Kong media mogul George Ho; the first Chinese Commissioner of the Royal Hong Kong Police, Li Kwan Ha; the last Commissioner of the Royal Hong Kong Police Hui Ki On; industrialist and politician Sir Sze-yuen Chung; President of Tencent Martin Lau; the creator of Hang Seng Index Stanley Kwan; governor of the centrist political group and think tank Path of Democracy Raymond MAK Ka-Chun.\n\nSince the 2000s, with hold-up from the Education and Manpower Bureau and the Architectural Services Department, all the floors in the old wing were re-laid and the classrooms have been rewired. A central air-conditioning system was installed in the school hall. Every teacher's desk in all the staff rooms was endowed with a desktop computer and a digital display board was placed close to the doorway of the school. More contemporary and brighter lighting, together with fans, was installed in the covered playground, likewise the gymnasium.\n\nKing's College had its own magazine before the war with a reproduction of a drawing of the main entrance to the school on the cover. The latest number before the war is the December 1939 issue. The greater part of the work was done by a capable little group of senior boys who formed themselves into a magazine committee.\n\nDuring the war, all normal activities ceased. \"King's College Magazine\" was revived and reproduced in 1951 since the school was rehabilitated and the former Principal, Mr. F. K. Leung, and the staff decided that it was time King's once again had its own magazine.\n\n\"The Fig Tree\" is the school magazine.\n\n\"The Bridge\" is the school newspaper.\n\n\"King's Spring\" is a web-based collection of students' literary works.\n\nThe purpose of the house system in King's College is two-fold. It gives honour to the men who help to make history at King's College, and it serves to introduce healthy competition in sports, in the acquisition of academic honours and in promoting interest in all school activities.\n\nEarly on, there were only four houses, North, South, East and West, each with a house master and two assistant house masters. On admission, boys were attached to a house to which they belonged for the whole of their school life in King's. The houses competed for the house shield, which was awarded twice a year on the basis of total points earned by the members of each house for games, school work, and general conduct.\n\nDuring the Japanese occupation, all the activities of the school ceased. It was not until 1950 that the school was rehabilitated. Since then, the school has continued the House System of pre-war days;but instead of calling them North, South, East, and West, they are named after four former principals – Morris Kay, Wallington, and Ferguson. The other two, School House and Sargison House, were started in 1959 and 1960 respectively. And since 1956, metal badges bearing the House colours have been introduced as part of the school uniform in order to strengthen House consciousness. The Houses participate in various school activities including the Annual Athletic Meet, Swimming Gala, ball games competitions, etc.\n\nThe Annual Athletic Meet and the Swimming Gala, in particular, have aroused keen competition among the Houses. Each competitor wears his distinctive House colour vest and the House members sit in separate columns in the stadium so that there is plenty of enthusiastic cheering.Co-operation, enthusiasm, sportsmanship and obedience are the virtues of Houses members. These are finely displayed during the annual sports day. Victory or defeat means very little to the competitions. After all, activities and competitions would only help to improve the relationship among House members.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1885472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885472", "title": "Torrens Park railway station", "text": "Torrens Park railway station\n\nTorrens Park railway station is located on the Belair line in suburban Adelaide in South Australia. Located 9.3 kilometres from Adelaide station, it serves the inner southern suburb of Torrens Park. \n\nThe station opened in the late 19th or early 20th century as Blythwood, being renamed Torrens Park in 1921. In 1992, the Australian Plants Society commenced the Torrens Park Railway Station Project which made the surrounding area look much more attractive.\n\nIn 1995, the western side platform was closed when the inbound line was converted to standard gauge as part of the One Nation Adelaide-Melbourne line gauge conversion project. The disused platform was demolished in March 2008.\n"}
{"id": "1885477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885477", "title": "Nirala", "text": "Nirala\n\nNirala, real name Syed Muzaffar Husain Zaidi () (8 August 1937 – 9 December 1990) was a Pakistani comedian and film actor. He only appeared in Urdu films made in Pakistan. His first film was \"Aur bhi gham hain\" (1960). His last film was \"Choroan Ka Badshah\", which was released in 1988. His most successful film was Armaan in 1966, in which he played a supporting role with Waheed Murad.\n\nHe was born in Uttar Pradesh on 8 August 1937. Nirala was raised in India and then moved to Pakistan along with his family elders after the independence of Pakistan in 1947. They settled in Karachi in a rented house located at Abyssinia Lines (now known as Shahrah-e-Faisal Road) in Karachi.\n\nSyed Muzaffar Husain Zaidi was known for his jokes and gimmicks since his earlier days. In the year 1959, he was invited to an entertainment program in Karachi.\nAt that event, he entertained the public with his comedy. The audience was all praise for Muzaffar's one particular comedy, in which he acted as a professional pigeon caretaker. That caretaker's entire life revolves around pigeons.\n\nA year later, Syed Muzaffar Husain Zaidi took the professional name Nirala and debuted in the 1960 film \"Aur Bhi Gham Hain\", producer, Danish Dairwee, director, A.H. Siddiqui. In his debut movie, Nirala played the role of that same pigeon-lover, who was obsessed with pigeons. Nirala's interest was to create laughter, and he was highly successful at it.\n\nBesides working in the movies, Nirala performed comedy routines at private parties, social events and stage shows around the country. In the 1970s, he married an Indian woman and had many children. He continued his profession as a comedian until his death in 1990.\n\n\n\nIn the 1980s, Nirala moved to Karachi and made stage appearances with comedian Umer Sharif. He was fond of chewing beetle leaf. Excessive use of beetle leaf took its toll on his health, which deteriorated with the passage of time. He died on 9 December 1990, in Karachi.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1885481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885481", "title": "Cooke Optics", "text": "Cooke Optics\n\nCooke Optics Ltd. is a camera lens manufacturing company based in Leicester. \n\nAdministratively speaking, Cooke Optics is a spin-off of the company Taylor-Hobson. However, Taylor-Hobson used to be a lens manufacturer and Cooke lenses used to be its sole activity before Taylor-Hobson moved to the market of metrology instruments. Hence the foundation of Cooke Optics can be regarded as the foundation of Taylor, Taylor and Hobson (TTH) in 1886, and Cooke Optics can be regarded as the successor of the original Taylor, Taylor and Hobson business.\n\nThe name Cooke originally came from the company T. Cooke & Sons of York, a manufacturer of telescopes. The optical manager of that company, H. Dennis Taylor (no relation), devised the Cooke triplet lens in the 1890s. Cooke of York was not interested in the manufacture of camera lenses, and licensed this design and others to TTH. Subsequently many of TTH's own designs, though unconnected with Cooke of York, also carried the Cooke brand. The Cooke triplet lens was also made under licence by Voigtländer and other companies.\n\nThroughout the twentieth century TTH produced a series of innovations, and supplied lenses for the (once large) UK camera industry, for photolithography in the printing industry in the USA and UK, and for cinematography. It provided a succession of technical solutions for Hollywood's evolving needs.\n\nNotable products include:\n\nBell & Howell took control of the company in 1930, but it was sold to Rank in 1946. In its later years, Taylor-Hobson's main interest was metrology, and it now operates as a subsidiary of Ametek.\n\nIn 1998, Cooke Optics was a new company formed following a buy-out of the Optical division of Taylor-Hobson. Chairman Les Zellan led the buy-out. Dave Stevens was then Managing Director of the Leicester-based facility and remained so until 2008 when Robert Howard replaced him as Chief Executive Officer. \n\nThe company now designs and manufactures 35 mm lenses for the film industry. In a reversion to its previous markets, it has also made limited quantities of the PS945, a redesigned Pinkham and Smith portrait lens, and the Series XVa, a redesigned triple-convertible lens for 10×8 inch format. The company distributes to over 60 countries worldwide and exports 90% of its production.\n\nIn 2013, the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences gave the company an award of merit, saying it \"helped define the look of motion pictures over the last century,\" with innovations over the years that have included zoom lenses for movie cameras and lenses that did not require bright lights. resulting in lenses that produce what is known in the industry as the \"Cooke look\" — warm, natural images on the screen. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1885482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885482", "title": "Adelaide Street Circuit", "text": "Adelaide Street Circuit\n\nThe Adelaide Street Circuit (also known as the Adelaide Parklands Circuit) is a temporary street circuit in the East Parklands adjacent to the Adelaide central business district in South Australia, Australia.\n\nThe 3.780 km (2.349 mi) long \"Grand Prix\" version of the track hosted eleven Formula One Australian Grand Prix events from 1985 to 1995, as well as an American Le Mans Series endurance race on New Year's Eve in 2000 (Race of a Thousand Years). Since 1999, a shortened version of the circuit has held the Adelaide 500 touring car race. A sprint version of the circuit has also been used since 2014.\n\n\nSince 1999, the track has hosted an annual Supercars race, the Adelaide 500, (in most years a 2 x 250 km race) on a shorter, 3.219 km (2.012 mi) variant of the track. The event has become one of the most acclaimed on the Supercars calendar, and is the only event added to the Supercars Hall of Fame. During Adelaide's era hosting the Australian Grand Prix, the circuit also hosted annual non-championship races for the Australian Touring Car Championship, the previous incarnation of Supercars.\n\nBetween 2014 and 2018, an annual Adelaide Motorsport Festival ran on the Victoria Park Sprint Circuit, a shortened 1.4 km (0.9 mi) layout. The layout turned right along Wakefield Street after the Senna Chicane and then rejoined the main circuit for the final corners. The event had attracted older Formula 1 machinery, with Ivan Capelli holding the lap record in a March CG891.\n\nThe 500-metre-long pit straight is inside the Victoria Park. During the Formula One and early V8 Supercar eras the Victoria Park Racecourse, a horse racing track, was located at the park, though has since been removed. The buildings and grandstands are temporary and removed each year due to ongoing campaigning by the Adelaide Parklands Preservation Association Inc.\n\nAt the end of the straight, drivers negotiate the Senna Chicane, so named after triple World Champion Ayrton Senna following his death at the 1994 San Marino Grand Prix. Senna had sat on the pole for the first Adelaide Grand Prix in 1985, and would go on to take the pole in Adelaide 6 times in 9 races, while winning in 1991 (the shortest race in Formula One history due to torrential rain), as well as his last career victory in 1993.\n\nAfter the chicane the cars take a fast left turn to go uphill on a short straight on Wakefield Road to East Terrace. They then have a series of right angle turns along East Terrace. The short form of the track has three of these.\n\nFollowed by fourth onto Bartels Road back across the parklands. Then the track follows the fast turn 8 sweeper. This corner was re-configured in 2009 and it produced some protests from many of the teams due to its speed and lack of runoff area. Turn 8 has been the site of many crashes in the various categories that have used the shortened version of the circuit.\n\nThe full Grand Prix circuit bypasses the turn onto Bartels Road and continues with a sweeping left-right-right into Stag Turn (turn 9). This leads onto the 360-metre-long Jones Straight, known as Rundle Road for the rest of the year and named after Australia's World Champion Alan Jones. Then there is a fast right-hand sweeper (known as Brewery Bend) onto the 900-metre-long Brabham Straight (named for Jack Brabham), on Dequetteville Terrace where the over Formula One cars in the turbo era (1985–88) were reaching speeds in excess of making Adelaide easily the fastest street circuit of the time as the only others were the much tighter Monaco, Detroit and Phoenix circuits. The short form of the track rejoins Brabham Straight ⅔ of the way down, so the 640-metre-long Bartels Road straight is longest on that layout. In 2007 this section of track was renamed Brock Straight after touring car driver Peter Brock. At the end of Brabham Straight is a right hand hairpin turn (at the Britannia Roundabout) onto Wakefield Road, then a left turn and long sweeping right hand curve back into Victoria Park behind the pit area. The lap concludes with another right-hand hairpin (Racetrack Hairpin) onto the pit straight.\n\nThe track is essentially flat except for a small valley on the Brock Straight, and a slight incline on Jones Straight, while the run up Wakefield Road from turns 3 to 4 also has a slight incline. All of these sections of track run in an east–west direction. The elevation ranges from 36 to 53 metres.\nWhen the idea of holding a Grand Prix in the parklands was first raised, there was some opposition from people concerned about environmental damage, as the parks have a number of mature trees with birds and possums living in them. There is no larger wildlife in the parklands, as they are heavily developed. These concerns seem to have been proven unfounded, as spectators often watch magpies and rosellas when there is nothing happening on the track. Indeed, the total road traffic during race weekend is significantly less than there is any other day of the year.\n\nThe race meetings have the feature race, but also a number of races for \"lesser\" categories, making four days of entertainment for the crowds of spectators, without long periods of boredom that could occur if only practice and qualifying for the main event preceded it. Many of the events also have after-race concerts on a stage erected for the purpose on a playing field in the middle of the track. Some of the artists who have performed the concerts either at the Grand Prix or the Clipsal 500 include Cher, Paul Simon, Tina Turner, Daryl Braithwaite, INXS and Kiss. During her concert following the 1993 AGP, Tina Turner had an impromptu visitor in the form of the race winner and triple World Champion Ayrton Senna. Although she had already performed the song earlier, as a tribute to Senna, Turner again sung her hit song \"The Best\".\n\nThe stadium section also hosted the Pedal Prix and a prologue stage of the Classic Adelaide Rally and the replacement Targa Adelaide Rally.\n\nThe pit straight is used each November for the Sporting Car Club of South Australia's annual John Blanden's Climb To The Eagle. This event commenced as part of the 1985 Formula One with many well known racing identities taking part. The event sees up to 600 sports and exotic cars lined up on the starting grid before leaving to drive to Eagle on the Hill in the Adelaide Hills on the Friday of the weekend when the F1 Grand Prix was traditionally held in Adelaide. Another event held in November is the annual Toy Run which features over 1,000 motorcycle riders donating toys for under privileged children. The Toy Run moved to using the pit straight as its starting point in 2012 after previously starting from Glenelg.\n\nAs of 8 March 2017. The fastest ever recorded lap of the original 3.780 km (2.349 mi) Grand Prix Circuit was 1:13.371 by triple World Champion Ayrton Senna driving a McLaren MP4/8 Ford during qualifying for the 1993 Australian Grand Prix. However, as this was in qualifying and not a race, it does not count as the lap record.\nThe fastest recorded lap of the 3.219 km (2.012 mi) Supercars circuit is 1:17.9726 set by Adelaide born driver Simon Hodge on 28 February 2014 driving a Mygale M11 Mercedes-Benz Formula 3.\nThe fastest recorded lap of the 1.4 km (0.9 mi) Victoria Park Sprint circuit is 0:42.5753 set by Ivan Capelli on 2 December 2018 driving a March CG891 car from the 1989 Formula One season.\n\n"}
{"id": "1885496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885496", "title": "Rohingya language", "text": "Rohingya language\n\nRohingya (), also known as Ruáingga (; 𐴌𐴗𐴥𐴝𐴙𐴚𐴒𐴙𐴝), is a language spoken by the Rohingya people of Rakhine State. It is an Eastern Indo-Aryan language belonging to the Bengali–Assamese branch, and is related to the Chittagonian language spoken in neighboring Bangladesh. The Rohingya language and Chittagonian are considered mutually intelligible.\n\nThe Hanifi Rohingya script is a unified script for the Rohingya language. Rohingya was first written in the 19th century with a version of the Perso-Arabic script. In 1975, an orthographic Arabic script was developed, based on the Urdu alphabet.\n\nIn the 1980s, (Maolana) Mohammad Hanif and his colleagues created the suitable phonetic script based on Arabic letters; it has been compared to the N’ko script. The script also includes a set of decimal numbers.\n\nProposals to include Hanifi Rohingya script in Unicode were written by linguist Anshuman Pandey.\n\nIt was added to the Unicode Standard in June 2018 with the release of version 11.0.\n\nThe Unicode block for Hanifi Rohingya is U+10D00–U+10D3F and contains 50 characters:\n\nA virtual keyboard was developed by Google for the Rohingya language in 2019 and allows users to type directly in Rohingya script. The Rohingya Unicode keyboard layout can be found here.\n\nWritten in Arabic script, the first Rohingya language texts are more than 200 years old. While Arakan was under British rule (1826–1948), the Rohingya people used mainly English and Urdu for written communication. Since independence in 1948, Burmese has been used in all official communications. Since the early 1960s, Rohingya scholars have started to realize the need for a writing system suited to their own language.\n\nIn 1975 a writing system was developed using Arabic letters; other scholars adopted Urdu script to remedy some deficiencies of the Arabic. Neither proved satisfactory, however, and most Rohingyas found it difficult to read the language in either version.\n\nFollowing these attempts, Maulana Hanif achieved a dedicated right-to-left alphabet for the Rohingya language in 1983. Named after its author, the Hanifi alphabet is a modified form of the Arabic alphabet, with additional borrowings from Latin and Burmese alphabets.\n\nAt present, a Rohingya Unicode font is available. It is based on Arabic letters (since those are far more understood by the people) with additional tone signs. Tests that have been conducted suggest that this script can be learned in a matter of hours if the reader has learned Arabic in a madrassa.\n\nThe Rohingya Fonna Unicode keyboard layout as well as a free font can be found here.\n\nIn 1999 E.M. Siddique Basu was able to simplify the Rohingya writing using Latin letters. It is an intuitive writing system which can be learnt easily and is known as Rohingyalish or Rohingya Fonna that uses only 26 Roman letters, five accented vowels, and two additional Latin characters for retroflex and nasal sounds.\n\nQ, V, and X are used only for loan-words.\n\nThe character set table of the Rohingyalish writing system uses the Latin letters shown above (ç and ñ with green background). The vowels are written both unaccented (aeiou) and accented (áéíóú). The use of c, ç and ñ is adapted to the language; c represents (English \"sh\"), ç is the retroflex r (), and ñ indicates a nasalized vowel (e.g., \"fañs\" 'five'). Crucially, these can all be accessed from an English keyboard, for example by using the English (US) International keyboard.\n\nThe names of the letters of the Latin Rohingyalish alphabet are similar to the names of the letters of the English alphabet.\n\nLong vowels in Rohingyalish are spelled with double vowels: for example, a long is spelled as \"oo\", while a long is spelled as \"oou\".\n\nRohingya has primarily the following 25 native consonant phonemes. There are some other consonant phonemes which are from foreign languages such as Arabic, Bengali, Burmese and Urdu.\n\nThere are six vowels and several diphthongs in the Rohingya language. They contrast between \"open-o\" () and \"closed-o\" () by using the different spellings / and / respectively.\n\nAccented vowels, marked with an acute accent, represent stressed (or \"hard\" vowels), and repeating a vowel lengthens it. Thus, tonals are marked by arranging the location of a stressed vowel in a lengthened pair, like and .\n\n1. If a noun ends with a vowel then the article is either án or wá if singular, or ún if plural or uncountable.<br>Usually wá is used for round-fatty objects, and án for flat-thin objects.\n\n2. If a noun ends with a consonant then the article is the end-consonant plus án or wá for singular or ún for plural.\n\n3. If a noun ends with r, then the article is g plus án or wá for singular or ún or ín for plural.\n\nIndefinite articles can be used either before or after the noun. Uggwá usually is used for roll/round/fatty shaped objects and ekkán is for thin/flat shaped objects.\n\nRohingya word order-1 is Subject–Object–Verb.\n\nRohingya word order-2 is Subject–Time-Place-Object–Verb.\n\nRohingya word order-3 is Subject–Time-[adjective]-Place-Object–[adverb]-Verb.\n\nRohingya word order-4 is Subject–Time-[adjective]-Place-Object–[adverb]-Verb_1-Verb_2.\nMore on Time extension:\n\nRohingya distinguishes 12 tenses, as shown in the examples below. In these tenses, the helping verb félai shows perfect action (comparable to English \"has/have\") and félaat shows perfect continuous action (compare English \"has/have been\"). The helping verb táki and táikki are comparable to English \"be\" and \"been\".\n\nVerb-form-suffix (basic and/or helping verb) indicate both person and tense. The suffixes ~ir, ~yi, ~lám, ~youm are used for the first person, the suffixes ~or, ~yó, ~lá, ~bá for the 2nd person, and the suffixes ~ar, ~ye, ~l, ~bou for the 3rd person.\nSimilarly ~ir, ~or, ~ar indicate present continuous tense, ~yi, ~yó, ~ye present perfect tense, ~lám, ~lá, ~l past tense, and ~youm, ~bá, ~bou future tense.\n\n<br>First person ( I ):\n\nSecond person ( You ):\n\nThird persons ( He/She/They ):\n\nGender: m=\"male\", f=\"female\", n=\"neuter.\", *=\"the person or object is near.\", **=\"the person or object is far.\"\n\nThe interrogative is indicated by né at the end of the sentence.\n\nItattú gór ekkán asé né? [Does he have a house?]<br>\nItattú gór ekkán asé. [He has a house.]<br>\nIbá za né? [Does she go?]<br>\nIbá za. [She goes.]<br>\nItará giyé né? [Did they go?]<br>\nItará giyé. [They went.]\n\nRohingya verbs indicate person by suffixes.\n\nPresent Tense<br>\nlek = write (command to you sg.)<br>\nlekí = I/we write.<br>\nlekó = write (command to you pl.)<br>\nlekós = You write(sg./pl.).<br>\nleké = He/she/they write(s).\n\nPresent Continuous Tense<br>\nlekír = I/we am/are writing.<br>\nlekór = You(sg./pl.) are writing.<br>\nlekér = He/she/they is/are writing.\n\nPresent Perfect Tense<br>\nlekífélaiyi = I/we have written.<br>\nlekífélaiyo = You (sg./pl.) have written.<br>\nlekífélaiyós = You (sg.) have written. (\"used to very closed people\")<br>\nlekífélaiye = He/she/they has/have written.\n\nFuture Tense<br>\nlekíyóum = I/we will write.<br>\nlekíbá = You (sg./pl.) will write.<br>\nlekíbi = You (sg.) will write. (\"used to very closed people\")<br>\nlekíbóu = He/she/they will write.\n\nPast Tense (Immediate/near past)<br>\nleikkí = I/we wrote.<br>\nleikkó = You (sg./pl.) wrote.<br>\nleikkós = You (sg.) wrote. (\"used to very closed people\")<br>\nleikké = He/she/they wrote.\n\nPast Tense (Remote past)<br>\nleikkílám = I/we wrote long ago.<br>\nleikkílá = You (sg./pl.) wrote long ago.<br>\nleikkílí = You (sg.) wrote long ago. (\"used to very closed people\")<br>\nleikkíl = He/she/they wrote long ago.\n\nPast Tense (If possibility)<br>\nlekítám = I/we would have written.<br>\nlekítá = You (sg./pl.) would have written.<br>\nlekítí = You (sg.) would have written. (\"used to very closed people\")<br>\nlekítóu = He/she/they would have written.\n\nForming Noun, Doer, Tool, Action<br>\nlekóon = act of writing.<br>\n        e.g. \"Debalor uore lekóon gom noó.\" Writing on wall is not good.<br>\nlekóya = writer.<br>\n        e.g. \"Itaráttú lekóya bicí.\" They-have many writers.<br>\nlekóni = thing with which you write.<br>\n        e.g. \"Añártú honó lekóni nái.\" I-have no any writing-thing (i.e. pen, pencil)<br>\nlekát = in the action of writing.<br>\n        e.g. \"Tui lekát asós.\" You are busy-in-writing.\n\nExample of a Rohingya case inflection is given below, using the singular forms of the Rohingya term for \"hóliba (tailor)\" which belongs to Rohingya's first declension class.\n\nSeventy or more different forms are available in Rohingya. A hyphen (-) between letters is to be removed, it is used for initial understanding only — how the word is formed.\n\n01 lek =write(sg.) \"Tui yián ehón lek.\" You write this right now.<br>\n02 lek-ó =write(pl.) \"Tuñí yián ehón lekó.\" You write this right now.<br>\n03 lek-á =cause to write \"Tui/Tuñí John ór áta leká/lekó.\" You ask John to write.<br>\n04 lek-í-de =help to write \"Tui/Tuñí ibáre lekíde/lekído.\" You help John in writing.\n\n05 lek-í =write(I) \"Aññí hámicá gór ot lekí.\" I always write at home.<br>\n06 lek-ó =write(II) \"Tuñí hámicá gór ot lekó.\" You always write at home.<br>\n07 lek-ó-s =write(IIa) \"Tui hámicá gór ot lekós.\" You always write at home.<br>\n08 lek-é =write(III) \"Tará hámicá gór ot leké.\" They always write at home.\n\n09 lek-í-r =writing(I) \"Aññí ciñçí ekkán lekír.\" I am writing a letter now.<br>\n10 lek-ó-or =writing(II) \"Tuñí/Tui ciñçí ekkán lekóor.\" You are writing a letter now.<br>\n11 lek-é-r =writing(III) \"Tará ciñçí ekkán lekér.\" They are writing a letter now.\n\n12 lek-í-féla-iyi =have written(I) \"Aññí ciñçí lekífélaiyi.\" I have written a letter.<br>\n13 lek-í-féla-iyo =have written (II) \"Tuñí ciñçí lekífélaiyi.\" You have written a letter.<br>\n14 lek-í-féla-iyo-s =have written(IIa) \"Tui ciñçí lekífélaiyos.\" You have written a letter.<br>\n15 lek-í-féla-iye =has/have written (III) \"Tará ciñçí lekífélaiye.\" They have written a letter.\n\n16 leik-kí =wrote(I) \"Aññí ciñçí ekkán leikkí.\" I wrote a letter.<br>\n17 leik-kó =wrote(II) \"Tuñí ciñçí ekkán leikkó.\" You wrote a letter.<br>\n18 leik-kó-s =wrote(IIa) \"Tui ciñçí ekkán leikkós.\" You wrote a letter.<br>\n19 leik-ké =wrote(III) \"Tará ciñçí ekkán leikké.\" They wrote a letter.\n\n20 lek-í-youm =will write(I) \"Aññí ciñçí ekkán lekíyoum.\" I will write a letter.<br>\n21 lek-í-ba =will write(II) \"Tuñí ciñçí ekkán lekíba.\" You will write a letter.<br>\n22 lek-í-bi =will write(IIa) \"Tui ciñçí ekkán lekkíbi.\" You will write a letter.<br>\n23 lek-í-bou =will write(III) \"Tará ciñçí ekkán lekíbou.\" They will write a letter.\n\n24 leik-kyóum =will write(I) \"Aññí ciñçí ekkán leikkyóum.\" I will write a letter.<br>\n25 leik-bá =will write(II) \"Tuñí ciñçí ekkán leikbá.\" You will write a letter.<br>\n26 leik-bí =will write(IIa) \"Tui ciñçí ekkán leikbí.\" You will write a letter.<br>\n27 leik-bóu =will write(III) \"Tará ciñçí ekkán leikbóu.\" They will write a letter.\n\n28 lek-á-giye =(passive I,II,III) \"Ciñçí ekkán lekágiyé.\" A letter is/was written.\n\n29 lek-á-za =being writable \"Ciñçí yián leká za.\" This letter is not writable.<br>\n30 lek-á-za-ibou =being writable in future \"Ciñçí yián leká zaibou.\" This letter will be writable.<br>\n31 lek-á-di-ya-za =can be made writable \"Ciñçí yián lekádiyaza.\" This letter can be made writable.\n\n32 lek-á =writing \"Leká yián bicí cúndor.\" This writing is very beautiful.<br>\n33 lek-ó-on =act of writing \"Email beggún óttu lekóon saá.\" All should write emails.<br>\n34 lek-ó-ya =person who writes \"Ahmed bála lekóya.\" Ahmed is a good writer.<br>\n35 lek-ó-ni =thing used to write \"Añártu honó lekóni ciz nái.\" I do not have anything to write with.<br>\n36 lek-á-ni =tool used to write \"Añártu honó lekáni boudh nái.\" I do not have any writing board.<br>\n37 lek-á-lekí =activities to write \"Tuáñrár bútore lekáleki tákoon saá.\" There should be writing between you.\n\n38 lek-é-de =thing used for writing \"Añártu honó lekéde ciz nái.\" I do noy have any writable thing.<br>\n39 leik-kyá =of written \"Kitab ibá fura leikká.\" This book is fully written.<br>\n40 leik-kyé-dé=of that written \"Añártu honó leikkyéde juab nái.\" I do not have any written answer.\n\n41 lek-í lek-í =by writing & writing/while writing \"Ite gór ottu lekí lekí aiyér.\" He is coming from home while writing.\n\n42 lek-í-lam =acted to write(I) \"Aññí habos sán lekílam.\" I write the letter.<br>\n43 lek-í-la =acted to write(II) \"Tuñí habos sán lekíla.\" You write the letter.<br>\n44 lek-í-li =acted to write(II) \"Tui habos sán lekíli.\" You write the letter.<br>\n45 lek-í-lou =acted to write(III) \"Tará habos sán lekílou.\" They write the letter.\n\n46 leik-lám =acted to write(I) \"Aññí habos sán lekílam.\" I write the letter.<br>\n47 leik-lá =acted to write(II) \"Tuñí habos sán lekíla.\" You write the letter.<br>\n48 leik-lí =acted to write(II) \"Tui habos sán lekíli.\" You write the letter.<br>\n49 leik-lou =acted to write(III) \"Tará habos sán lekílou.\" They write the letter.\n\n50 leik-kí-lam =had written(I) \"Aññí habos sán leikkílam.\" I had written this paper long ago.<br>\n51 leik-kí-la =had written(II) \"Tuñí habos sán leikkíla.\" You had written this paper long ago.<br>\n52 leik-kí-li =had written(II) \"Tui habos sán leikkíli.\" You had written this paper long ago.<br>\n53 leik-kí-l =had written(III) \"Tará habos sán leikkíl.\" They had written this paper long ago.\n\n54 lek-í-youm éri =will write later(I) \"Aññí habos sán lekíyoum éri.\" I will write the paper sometime later.<br>\n55 lek-í-ba ri =will write later(II) \"Tuñí habos sán lekíba ri.\" You will write the paper sometime later.<br>\n56 lek-í-bi ri =will write later(IIa) \"Tui habos sán lekíbi ri.\" You write the paper sometime later.<br>\n57 lek-í-bou ri =will write later(III) \"Tará habos sán lekíbou ri.\" They will write the paper sometime later.\n\n58 lek-í-tam =would have written(I) \"Aññí email lán lekítam.\" I would have written the email.<br>\n59 lek-í-ta =would have written(II) \"Tuñí email lán lekíta i.\" You would have written the email.<br>\n60 lek-í-ti =would have written(IIa) \"Tui email lán lekíti.\" You would have written the email.<br>\n61 lek-í-tou =would have written(III) \"Tará email lán lekítou.\" They would have written the email.\n\n62 leik-tám =would have written(I) \"Aññí email lán leiktám.\" I would have written the email.<br>\n63 leik-tá =would have written(II) \"Tuñí email lán leiktá.\" You would have written the email.<br>\n64 leik-tí =would have written(IIa) \"Tui email lán leiktí.\" You would have written the email.<br>\n65 leik-tóu =would have written(III) \"Tará email lán leiktóu.\" They would have written the email.\n\n66 lek-ó-na =please write \"Meérbanigorí lekóna.\" Please write the letter.<br>\n67 lek-ó-goi =allowed to write \"Tuñí lekó gói.\" Let you write.\n\n68 lek-se-ná =please write \"Meérbanigorí leksená.\" Please write the letter.<br>\n69 lek-gói =allowed to write \"Tui lek gói.\" Let you write.\n\n70 lek-í-le =if (I/II/III) person write \"Tuñí lekíle gom óibou.\" It will be good if you write.\n\nThe following is a sample text in Rohingya of the Article 1 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights:\n\nRohingya in Rohingya Latin alphabet\n\nBengali in Latin script\n\nAssamese in Latin script\n\n"}
{"id": "1885498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885498", "title": "Chynna Clugston Flores", "text": "Chynna Clugston Flores\n\nChynna Clugston Flores (born August 19, 1975) is a freelance American comic book creator known for her manga-influenced teen comedy series \"Blue Monday\". Based in Coarsegold, Chynna has been drawing comics since 1994 and has worked with  Oni Press, Dark Horse Presents, Double Feature, Action Girl Comics, DC Comics and several digital comics as an editor, penciler, writer, inker, colorist, letterer and cover artist.   \n\nClugston Flores grew up in Fresno, California and attended the Roosevelt School of the Arts. After her freshman year, she moved to Oakhurst, California and attended Yosemite High School, where she would take inspiration for \"Blue Monday\".\n\nShortly after graduation, Clugston Flores submitted some of her minicomics to Fantaco, which signed her to write and draw the vampire miniseries \"Bloodletting\". Clugston Flores followed \"Bloodletting\" with one-pagers and shorts in Sarah Dyer's \"Action Girl\" and Dark Horse Presents, eventually following editor Jamie S. Rich to Oni Press. At Oni, Clugston Flores produced her manga-influenced comic book 'series, \"Blue Monday\", which debuted in 1999 in \"Oni Double Feature\" #11. In 2000 Oni published the first Blue Monday miniseries, \"Blue Monday: The Kids Are Alright\".\n\nShe was assistant editor for CMX Manga, assistant editor for DC Comics' Wildstorm division until 2011, and an assistant editor for DC Comics working on various titles, editing Looney Tunes, co-editing Tiny Titans, as well as several digital comics in La Jolla, CA until 2011. She eventually moved \"Blue Monday\" and \"Scooter Girl\" to Image Comics to be re-released and later produce a new segment in 2017an/Scooby-Doo Halloween ComicFest as an editor.\n\nClugston Flores has been nominated for three Eisner Awards for Best Limited Series for \"Blue Monday\" (2001), and her participation on \"Hopeless Savages\" (2002), and Best Writer/Artist-Humor (2002); The Russ Manning award (2000); and a Harvey Award. Clugston Flores was also nominated for the 2001 Lulu of the Year Award by Friends of Lulu for \"Blue Monday\".\n\nClugston Flores started her career as Chynna Clugston-Major, before her divorce from Guy Major (a colorist and toner on most of her books to this day), and is currently billed under her married name, Chynna Clugston Flores. Clugston Flores holds an interest in Japanese, Irish, and British culture, including mod fashion, britpop, and film. She lives in San Diego, California, with her husband, Jon Flores.\n\nIn addition to \"Blue Monday\", Clugston Flores's other notable works include:\n\n"}
{"id": "1885499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885499", "title": "Au Hasard Balthazar", "text": "Au Hasard Balthazar\n\nAu Hasard Balthazar (; meaning \"Balthazar, at Random\"), also known as \"Balthazar\", is a 1966 French drama film directed by Robert Bresson. Believed to be inspired by a passage from Fyodor Dostoyevsky's 1868-69 novel \"The Idiot\", the film follows a donkey as he is given to various owners, most of whom treat him callously.\n\nNoted for Bresson's ascetic directorial style and regarded as a work of profound emotional effect, it is frequently listed as one of the greatest films of all time.\n\nIn the French countryside near the Pyrenees, a baby donkey is adopted by young children - Jacques and his sisters, who live on a farm. They baptize the donkey (and christen it Balthazar) along with Marie, Jacques' childhood sweetheart, whose father is the teacher at the small school next-door. When one of Jacques' sisters dies, his family vacates the farm, and Marie's family take it over in a loose arrangement. The donkey is given away to local farmhands who work it very hard. Years pass until Balthazar is involved in an accident and runs off, finding its way back to Marie, who is now a teenager. But her father gets involved in legal wrangles over the farm and the donkey is given away to a local bakery for delivery work.\n\nGerard, leader of a young criminal gang, is the delivery boy at the bakery, and so takes charge of the donkey, treating it cruelly. Marie, driving a 2CV one day, sees the donkey at the roadside and stops to greet it. Gerard, who'd been sleeping nearby, gets into her car. They have sex, and then she drives home. Marie later enters into an abusive relationship with him, leaving her parents. Gerard is summoned to the local police station and questioned about a murder, along with Arnold, an alcoholic who is also a suspect. Neither is arrested. Balthazar becomes ill, and Arnold takes the donkey off Gerard's hands.\n\nBalthazar recovers and Arnold uses the donkey and another to guide tourists around the Pyrenees. When the season ends, Balthazar escapes and joins a circus. But when the donkey sees Arnold in the audience it goes berserk, and Arnold retrieves it. Arnold's uncle dies and he inherits a fortune. He throws a wild party at a bar, and then is put on Balthazar's back to ride home. However, he is so drunk he falls off, hits his head on the ground and dies. The police send Balthazar to market. A local miller buys the donkey, using it for pumping water and milling. One rainy night, Marie, soaking wet, knocks on the miller's door asking for shelter - she has run away from Gerard. The miller says he'll be her friend and help her to 'escape' - but next morning sees her parents and offers them the donkey, the inference being that Marie will follow. Marie goes back to her parents. Jacques visits, wanting to marry her and also saying his father does not want the money the court ordered Marie's father to pay him. But Marie is not sure she wants to marry Jacques. She says she wants to 'have it out' with Gerard and goes to visit a barn where they used to meet. Gerard is there with his gang, and they strip her, beat her, then lock her in.\n\nMarie's father and Jacques find her and break a window to get in. They take her home, pulled in a cart by Balthazar. Later Jacques wants to see Marie, but her mother comes downstairs and says 'she's gone and will never come back'. Marie's father dies shortly after, when visited by a priest. While Marie's mother is grieving, Gerard turns up with his gang and asks if he can borrow Balthazar. Ostensibly it's for a procession, but they use the donkey to carry contraband for smuggling over the border.\n\nAt night, when Gerard and accomplice are supposed to be meeting their contact, they are instead shot at and they flee. Balthazar runs off and hides in bushes. In the morning, we see Balthazar has a gunshot wound. A shepherd and flock comes. The sheep gather around Balthazar, their bells jangling, as he lays down and dies.\n\n\nAfter making several prison-themed films using his theory of \"pure cinematography\", Bresson stated that he wanted to move onto a different style of filmmaking. The story was inspired by Fyodor Dostoyevsky's \"The Idiot\" and each episode in Balthazar's life represents one of the seven deadly sins. Bresson later stated that the film was \"made up of many lines that intersect one another\" and that Balthazar was meant to be a symbol of Christian faith. Bresson produced the film with help from the Swedish Film Institute.\n\nAccording to Wiazemsky's 2007 novel \"Jeune Fille\", she and Bresson developed a close relationship during the shooting of the film, although it was not consummated. On location they stayed in adjoining rooms and Wiazemsky said that \"at first, he would content himself by holding my arm, or stroking my cheek. But then came the disagreeable moment when he would try to kiss me ... I would push him away and he wouldn't insist, but he looked so unhappy that I always felt guilty.\" Later Wiazemsky lost her virginity to a member of the film's crew, which she says gave her the courage to reject Bresson as a lover. Bresson was known to cast nonprofessional actors and use their inexperience to create a specific type of realism in his films. Wiazemsky states: \"It was not his intention to teach me how to be an actress. Almost against the grain, I felt the emotion the role provoked in me, and later, in other films, I learned how to use that emotion.\"\n\nGhislain Cloquet was the cinematographer for \"Au Hasard Balthazar\"; it was the first of three films Cloquet shot for Bresson. Bresson's long collaboration with Léonce-Henri Burel had ended with Bresson's previous film, \"The Trial of Joan of Arc\". As described by Daryl Chin, Bresson and Cloquet \"would evolve a cinematic style of subtle, sun-dappled radiance; without extending the photography into extremes of chiaroscuro contrast, Cloquet would heighten the lighting so that even the greys would glisten.\"\n\nThe film's editor was Raymond Lamy, a veteran of French cinema whose first editing credit was in 1931. From 1956 through 1971, Lamy edited all of Bresson's films excepting \"The Trial of Joan of Arc\" (1962).\n\nWhen \"Au Hasard Balthazar\" first played in New York at the 1966 Film Festival, \"it received mostly unfavorable notices\". Reviews in Europe, however, were glowing. The noted filmmaker and \"Cahiers du Cinema\" critic Jean-Luc Godard said, \"Everyone who sees this film will be absolutely astonished [...] because this film is really the world in an hour and a half.\" Godard married Anne Wiazemsky, who played Marie in the film, in 1967. Film critic Tom Milne called it \"perhaps [Bresson's] greatest film to date, certainly his most complex.\"\n\nThe theatrical release in the United States came four years later. In 1970, Roger Greenspun of \"The New York Times\" lauded the film's final scene as \"surely one of the most affecting passages in the history of film.\" Andrew Sarris, one of cinema's most influential critics, wrote in his 1970 review: \"No film I have ever seen has come so close to convulsing my entire being ... It stands by itself as one of the loftiest pinnacles of artistically realized emotional experience.\" \"The New Yorker\" film critic Pauline Kael, however, wrote that although some consider the work a masterpiece, \"others may find it painstakingly tedious and offensively holy\". Ingmar Bergman also said of the movie, \"this \"Balthazar\", I didn't understand a word of it, it was so completely boring... A donkey, to me, is completely uninteresting, but a human being is always interesting.\"\n\nThe film's religious imagery, spiritual allegories and naturalistic, minimalist aesthetic style have since been widely praised by film reviewers. In 2005, James Quandt referred to it as a \"brief, elliptical tale about the life and death of a donkey\" that has \"exquisite renderings of pain and abasement\" and \"compendiums of cruelty\" that tell a powerful spiritual message. In 2003, J. Hoberman stated, \"Robert Bresson's heart-breaking and magnificent \"Au Hasard Balthazar\" (1966) — the story of a donkey's life and death in rural France — is the supreme masterpiece by one of the greatest of 20th-century filmmakers.\" Manohla Dargis views \"Au Hasard Balthazar\" as \"one of the greatest films in history\", writing that it \"stirs the heart and soul as much as the mind.\" Roger Ebert argued, \"The genius of Bresson's approach is that he never gives us a single moment that could be described as one of Balthazar's 'reaction shots.' Other movie animals may roll their eyes or stomp their hooves, but Balthazar simply walks or waits, regarding everything with the clarity of a donkey who knows it is a beast of burden, and that its life consists of either bearing or not bearing [...] This is the cinema of empathy.\"\n\nIgnatiy Vishnevetsky similarly commented, \"Bresson never attempts to humanize Balthazar. [...] What Balthazar experiences of human nature is both pure and limited: the embrace of a lonely young woman, the unprovoked attack of an angry young man, and the work of the farms whose owners worry over money. He is only a donkey, and therefore something much more.\" Ebert also credits Bresson's ascetic approach to actors for much of the work's emotional power, writing, \"The actors portray lives without informing us how to feel about them; forced to decide for ourselves how to feel, forced to empathize, we often have stronger feelings than if the actors were feeling them for us.\"\n\nThe film premièred at the 1966 Venice Film Festival where it won the OCIC (International Catholic Organization for Cinema) Award, the San Giorgio Prize, and the New Cinema Award.\n\n\"Au Hasard Balthazar\" was ranked sixteenth on the 2012 critics' poll of \"the greatest films of all time\" conducted by the film magazine \"Sight & Sound\". It was also 21st in the directors' poll, receiving 18 votes from filmmakers including Nuri Bilge Ceylan and Béla Tarr. It was also the first-place choice of Michael Haneke in the 2002 poll.\n\nIn 2008, the film was released to the Criterion Collection as a region 1 DVD with English subtitles. In 2013 a region 2 DVD was released by Artificial Eye, again with English subtitles.\n\n\"Au Hasard Balthazar\" is the inspiration for 1977 Tamil language movie \"Agraharathil Kazhutai\" directed by one of the most prolific Indian directors John Abraham. This movie was critically acclaimed upon its release and in 2013, it was listed in IBN Live's 100 Greatest Indian movies of all time. In 1978, \"Agraharathil Kazhutai\" won the National Film Award for Best Feature Film in Tamil at the 25th National Film Awards.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1885504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885504", "title": "Ascot Park railway station", "text": "Ascot Park railway station\n\nAscot Park railway station is located on the Seaford line. Situated in the south-western Adelaide suburb of Ascot Park, it is 10.2 kilometres from Adelaide station.\n\nAscot Park was opened on 6 April 1914. When the Hallett Cove line was duplicated in 1955, the single platform was converted to an island platform. As part of a grade separation project to eliminate the Daws Road and Marion Road level crossings, the station was demolished and rebuilt, reopening in March 1974.\n\nThe station is located just south of where the Tonsley line branches off. The station has two tracks, either side of an island platform with a pedestrian subway connecting the platform to the two adjacent streets. The station is not staffed and the toilets have been closed.\n"}
{"id": "1885512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885512", "title": "Lac du Bourget", "text": "Lac du Bourget\n\nLac du Bourget (Lake Bourget), also locally known as Lac Gris (Grey Lake) or Lac d'Aix, is a lake at the southernmost end of the Jura Mountains in the department of Savoie, France. It is the deepest lake located entirely within France, and either the largest or second largest after Lac de Grand-Lieu depending on season.\n\nThe largest town on its shore is Aix-les-Bains. Chambéry, the capital of Savoie, lies about 10 km south of the lake. The lake is mainly fed by the river Leysse (and other small rivers), and it drains towards the river Rhône through the Canal de Savières, an artificial channel. It is a Ramsar site. The extinct bezoule was found only in this lake.\n\nThe lake was formed during the last period of global glaciation in the Alps (Würm glaciation) during the Pleistocene epoch. It has a surface area of . The long and narrow north-south axis of the lake extends 18 km in length, and ranges between 1.6 km and 3.5 km in width. The lake's average depth is 85 m, and its maximum depth in 145 m. The lake is meromictic, meaning that it has layers that do not mix.\n\nThe lake is bordered by the steep summits of the Mont du Chat and the Chaîne de l'Épine on the west, and Bauges Mountains on the east, which form its shores.\n\nLac du Bourget was made famous by several romantic poems of Alphonse de Lamartine, including \"Le Lac\", as well as by descriptions by Xavier de Maistre, Honoré de Balzac, and Alexandre Dumas.\n\nNamed Lacus de Burgeto in 1313, its name \"Le Bourget\" comes from the eponymous castle, which became the main residence of the Counts of Savoy from the middle of the 13th century until the following century. Formerly, it was called \"Lac de Châtillon\" (Ripa laci de Castellione in the 13th century), in reference to the castle and the eponymous seigneury. It is mentioned in particular in the donation made by the Count of Savoy Amédée III in 1125, for the foundation of the abbey of Hautecombe, \"on the shore of the lake of Châtillon\" (supra ripam loci de Castellione).\n\n"}
{"id": "1885514", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885514", "title": "Kottayil Kovilakam", "text": "Kottayil Kovilakam\n\nKottayil Kovilakam or Kottayil Kovilakom is a small village in the Paravur taluk, Ernakulam district of Kerala state, near Kochi, south India.\n\nIt has a temple devoted to Krishna located on the top of a hill.\n\nKottayil Kovilakam - on the banks of the confluence of three rivers is a small hill on top of which there is a Krishna Temple, a Syrian Church, a Mosque and a Jewish Synagogue depicting the cultural harmony of Kerala.\nAll the above lie in 1 km circumference.\nKottayil Kovilakam at Chendamangalam, which was the seat of Kshatriya chieftains of Villarvattom is situated near the ancient \"Kunnathuthali temple\". Chendamangalam is an important center of hand loom weaving and coir manufacturing. Near the Krishna temple on one side tipu sultans cave and on either side Arabs cemetery. On the riverside a group of huge rocks known as 'ANAPARA' is the main highlight. The kunnathuthali temples were constructed 400 years ago.\n"}
{"id": "1885519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885519", "title": "Tiburon Boulevard", "text": "Tiburon Boulevard\n\nState Route 131 (SR 131), named Tiburon Boulevard along its entire length, is a state highway in the U.S. state of California in Marin County. It is a short route that connects U.S. Route 101 with the town of Tiburon.\n\nThe route follows the northern and eastern shorelines of Richardson Bay, an inlet of San Francisco Bay north of Sausalito. Approximately the first half of the route is four-lane divided road, until it reaches the site of the old railroad trestle and Blackie's Pasture, after which it narrows to two lanes on Tiburon Peninsula heading into Tiburon.\n\nBeyond its western terminus at U.S. 101, Tiburon Boulevard becomes East Blithedale Avenue, which leads into Mill Valley. Its eastern terminus is at the intersection with Main Street in Tiburon, after which the road becomes Paradise Drive, a winding route which loops around the eastern side of Tiburon Peninsula, eventually leading to Corte Madera.\n\nSR 131 is part of the National Highway System, a network of highways that are considered essential to the country's economy, defense, and mobility by the Federal Highway Administration.\n\nRoute 131 is part of the state highway system maintained by Caltrans because it was part of a larger plan in the 1950s to construct another bridge to San Francisco via Angel Island to complement the Golden Gate Bridge.\n\n"}
{"id": "1885523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885523", "title": "Teorema", "text": "Teorema\n\nTeorema, also known as Theorem (UK), is a 1968 Italian allegorical mystery film written and directed by Pier Paolo Pasolini and starring Terence Stamp, Laura Betti, Silvana Mangano, Massimo Girotti and Anne Wiazemsky. Pasolini's sixth film, it was the first time he worked primarily with professional actors. In this film, an upper-class Milanese family is introduced to, and then abandoned by, a divine force. Two prevalent motifs are the desert and the timelessness of divinity.\n\nA mysterious figure known only as \"The Visitor\" appears in the lives of a typical bourgeois Italian family. His arrival is heralded at the gates of the family's Milanese estate by an arm-flapping postman. The enigmatic stranger soon engages in sexual affairs with all members of the household: the devoutly religious maid, the sensitive son, the sexually repressed mother, the timid daughter and, finally, the tormented father. The stranger gives unstintingly of himself, asking nothing in return. He stops the passionate maid from committing suicide with a gas hose and tenderly consoles her; he befriends and sleeps with the frightened son, soothing his doubts and anxiety and endowing him with confidence; he becomes emotionally intimate with the overprotected daughter, removing her childish innocence about men; he seduces the bored and dissatisfied mother, giving her sexual joy and fulfillment; he cares for and comforts the despondent and suffering father, who has fallen ill.\n\nThen one day the herald returns and announces that the stranger will soon leave the household, just as suddenly and mysteriously as he came. In the subsequent void of the stranger's absence, each family member is forced to confront what was previously concealed by the trappings of bourgeois life. The maid returns to the rural village where she was born and is seen to perform miracles; ultimately, she immolates herself by having her body buried in dirt while shedding ecstatic tears of regeneration. The mother seeks sexual encounters with young men; the son leaves the family home to become an artist; the daughter sinks into a catatonic state; and the father strips himself of all material effects, handing his factory over to its workers, removing his clothes at a railway station and wandering naked into the wilderness (actually the volcanic desert slopes of Mount Etna), where he finally screams in primal rage and despair.\n\n\nOn its release, the religious right and the Vatican criticized the sexual content in the film. Others considered the film \"ambiguous\" and \"visionary.\" The film won a special award at the Venice Film Festival from the International Catholic Film Office, only to have it withdrawn later when the Vatican protested.\n\nScholars view the film differently due to the openness or ambiguity of the film. The author of \"A Certain Realism: Making Use of Pasolini’s Film Theory and Practice\", Maurizio Viano, says that in order to understand the film there must be \"adequate translation.\" Most scholars writing about the film do not discuss Pasolini's cinematographic techniques but Pasolini's philosophical arguments. Viano argues that Pasolini intended to be theoretical in this film because he wanted to be recognized as \"a film theorist.\"\n\n\"Teorema\" means theorem in Italian. Its Greek root is \"theorema\" (θεώρημα), meaning simultaneously \"spectacle,\" \"intuition,\" and \"theorem.\" Viano suggests that the film should be considered as \"spectatorship\" because each family member gazes at the guest and his loins , although this seems unlikely: the Greek word denotes the object of spectatorship, rather than the actual act of spectatorship, which would be \"theoresis\" (θεώρησις).\n\nAs a term, \"theorem\" is also often considered as mathematical or formulaic. In this sense, the film also contains a programmatic structure. It begins with documentary-like images and then moves on to the opening credit with a dark volcanic desert, a home party scene, cuts of the factory in sepia tone, introduction of each family member in silence and sepia tone, and, then, the guest sitting in the back yard in colour. The middle section is divided into three: \"seductions\", \"confessions\" and \"transformations\".\n\nNot only is the film's structure formulaic but so is the psychological development of each character. They all go through \"seductions\", \"confessions\" and \"transformations\". The way each character changes their state of mind is the same. They all fall into a sexual desire for the guest. They all have sex with him. When the guest leaves, they all, except the maid, confess to him how they feel about themselves. In the final section of the film, after he leaves, they lose the identity they had before. The maid goes back to her village and performs miracles while subsisting on nettles, but asks to be buried alive. The daughter succumbs to a catatonic state. The son psychotically paints his desire for the guest. The mother picks up young men who resemble the guest and has sex with them. The father strips down in the middle of the train station.\n\nA common interpretation by cinema scholars is that the film is a commentary on the bourgeois society and emergence of consumerism through the very beginning of the film. The reporter asks a worker of Paolo's factory if he thinks there will be no bourgeois in the future. In \"The Cinema of Economic Miracles: Visuality and Modernization in the Italian Art Film\", Angelo Restivo assumes that Pasolini suggests that even documentary images, which depict facts, fail to show the truth. News can tell the audience only the surface of the events they broadcast. Merely watching the interview of the workers does not tell why factory owner Paolo, gave away the factory. That might be one of the reasons the scene is set in the beginning of the film.\n\nIn his biographical work on Pasolini, \"Pier Paolo Pasolini\", Enzo Siciliano assumes that Pasolini expresses his struggle of being homosexual in the film. On the other hand, Viano believes that Pasolini's emphasis is not on homosexuality but rather on sexuality in general because the guest has sex with each member of the household. Sexuality is considered as passion in Viano's interpretation.\n\nItalian critic Morandini, author of a dictionary of cinema, claimed that \"the theorem is demonstrated: the incapacity of modern -bourgeois- man to perceive, listen to, absorb and live the sacred. Only Emilia the servant, who comes from a peasant family, discovers it and, after the \"miracle\" of levitation, will return to the ground with a holy smell. It's another film by Pasolini dedicated to the conjunction between Marx and Freud (and, here, Jung and Marcuse too).\"\n\nPasolini later expanded this film into a novel with the same name. Giorgio Battistelli composed an opera based on the film. In 2009, the Dutch theatre company 'Toneelgroep Amsterdam' created and performed a play version of this movie.\n\nOn October 4, 2005, Koch-Lorber Films released the DVD of \"Teorema\" in the United States.\n\nOn February 18, 2020, The Criterion Collection released a Blu-ray and DVD of \"Teorema\" in North America.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1885525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885525", "title": "Catarman, Northern Samar", "text": "Catarman, Northern Samar\n\n', officially the ', (; ; ), is a and capital of the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nIt is the largest municipality in terms of land area and population in the province. It is the commercial, educational, financial, political and government center of the province.\n\nCatarman lies on the northern part of Samar Island, bounded to the east by Mondragon, to the west by Bobon, to the south by Lope de Vega, and to the north by the Philippine Sea.\n\nOn the Pacific coast are flat lowlands with the interior characterized by outlying low hills. Mount Puyao in Barangay Liberty is the highest peak in the area. The Catarman River, a major provincial river, divides the eastern and the western parts of the town. It is fed by the Paticua, Hibulwangan, Mahangna, Tura, and Danao creeks together with lesser prominent estuaries.\n\nThe Municipality of Catarman is politically subdivided into 55 barangays, 17 of them in the poblacion.\n\nBefore the coming of the Spaniards, Catarman (Calatman) or (Cataruman) was a settlement by the mouth of the river of the same name in the region called Ibabao. The Spanish Conquistadores freely applied the name Ibabao to the northern part of Samar island when it established its civil government. The similarities in the vocabularies and pronunciation of the dialects of these areas traces them to a common root as a people.\n\nThe town was one of the 13 villages and settlements and adopted as pueblos by the Spaniards in Samar Island and was one of the settlements in the northern parts of the island. The pueblo was named Calatman and was one of the pueblos in the Visayan islands, then collectively referred to as \"Islas de Pintados\".\n\nIn 2003, its application for cityhood was deterred after officials of the neighboring of towns Bobon and Mondragon opposed the planned Catarman City conglomeration, which was necessary to meet the criteria for the approval of its bid for cityhood. Another bill was filed converting the Municipality of Catarman into a component city of Northern Samar but is still pending with the Committee on Local Government in the House of Representatives since July 2010. The rise of establishments and banking institutions has swiftly came and filled the spaces of Catarman that paved the way for it to become competitive.\n\nThere is only one airline operating through the Catarman National Airport (IATA: CRM) coming from and going to Manila: PAL Express. Flights are frequently booked out well in advance and a one way ticket from Manila costs between PhP3,000 and PhP8,000 unless booked well in advance. Pedicabs, commonly known as \"padyak\" and tricycles are the means of transportation within the town, while multicabs, jeepneys, and vans are the means of transportation to neighboring and distant towns within the province. Several taxi and bus companies are also operating from the town going to Manila or Tacloban city and vice versa.\n\nCatarman is home to the University of Eastern Philippines, the first state university in the visayas and the largest university by student population and curriculum in Eastern Visayas. The University has satellite campuses in the province, one in Laoang and the other in Catubig (officially known the Pedro Rebadulla Memorial Campus), and has several extension programs offered across satellite campuses in the region.\n\nCatarman is also an abode to the top performing schools in the region which already have a name in the National Level.\n\nOther public and private schools (but not limited to):\n\nElementary:\n\nHigh school:\n\nTertiary/College/Vocational:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1885529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885529", "title": "Crown (anatomy)", "text": "Crown (anatomy)\n\nThe crown is the top of the head, or the whole head.\n\nCrown can mean the top of the head and it can also mean the whole head. In the study of human anatomy the terms \"Calvaria, \"skullcap\", \"skull cap\", or the \"roof of the cranial cavity\" are used for the top part of the head.\n\nIn bird anatomy, the crown is the top of the head, or more specifically the zone from the frons, or forehead, extending posteriorally to the occiput and laterally on both sides to the temples. The upper part of the head, including frons, crown and occiput, is sometimes called the pileum. A bird with a crest covering the pileum may be described as \"pileated\", e.g. the pileated woodpecker.\n\nIn whale anatomy the crown is the bulge on the head through which the blow-holes emerge.\n\n"}
{"id": "1885535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885535", "title": "David Diringer", "text": "David Diringer\n\nOn the back dust-jacket flap of \"Writing\" (1962), under About the Author, we may read the following brief biography of the author as scholar: \"David Diringer, M.A. (Cantab.), D.Litt. (Florence), was educated in Florence, to which University he subsequently returned, first as Lecturer, then as Professor. He has taught [...] in England, on the Continent, in the [US], and elsewhere. He was Secretary at the First International Congress of Etruscan Studies (1928) and at the first three Congresses of Colonial Studies in Italy (1931, 1934, 1937). Since 1948, Dr. Diringer has been Lecturer in Semitic Epigraphy at the University of Cambridge. He is the author of several books, including \"The Early Hebrew Inscriptions\" (1934) [and] \"The Alphabet in the History of Civilization\" (1937), and of more than 200 contributions to learned journals. Dr. Diringer is the founder and director of the Alphabet Museum at Cambridge.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1885548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885548", "title": "List of doom metal bands", "text": "List of doom metal bands\n\nThis is an alphabetical list of doom metal bands including stoner metal, sludge metal, drone metal and funeral doom, artists that play within a genre that fuses doom metal with another, such as death-doom and black-doom, and artists that have played doom metal at some point in their career.\n"}
{"id": "1885549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885549", "title": "List of Schedule 1 substances (CWC)", "text": "List of Schedule 1 substances (CWC)\n\nSchedule 1 substances, in the sense of the Chemical Weapons Convention, are chemicals which can either be used as chemical weapons themselves or used in the manufacture of chemical weapons and which have no, or very limited, uses outside of chemical warfare.\n\nThese may be produced or used for research, medical, pharmaceutical or chemical weapon defence testing (called \"protective testing\" in the treaty) purposes but production above 100 grams per year must be declared to the OPCW in accordance with Part VI of the \"Verification Annex\". A country is limited to possessing a maximum of one tonne of these materials.\n\nThey are sub-divided into Part A substances, which are chemicals that can be used directly as weapons, and Part B which are precursors useful in the manufacture of chemical weapons. Examples are mustard and nerve agents, and substances which are solely used as precursor chemicals in their manufacture. A few of these chemicals have very small-scale non-military applications; for example, minute quantities of nitrogen mustard are used to treat certain cancers.\n\nChemicals which can be used as weapons, or used in their manufacture, but which have legitimate applications as well are listed in Schedule 2 (small-scale applications) and Schedule 3 (large-scale applications).\n\nThe following criteria shall be taken into account in considering whether a toxic chemical or precursor should be included in Schedule 1:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1885551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885551", "title": "Database dump", "text": "Database dump\n\nA database dump (also: SQL dump) contains a record of the table structure and/or the data from a database and is usually in the form of a list of SQL statements. A database dump is most often used for backing up a database so that its contents can be restored in the event of data loss. Corrupted databases can often be recovered by analysis of the dump. Database dumps are often published by free software and free content projects, to allow reuse or forking of the database.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1885553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885553", "title": "Kudoa thyrsites", "text": "Kudoa thyrsites\n\nKudoa thyrsites is a myxosporean parasite of marine fishes. It has a worldwide distribution, and infects a wide range of host species. This parasite is responsible for causing economic losses to the fisheries sector, by causing post-mortem \"myoliquefaction\", a softening of the flesh to such an extent that the fish becomes unmarketable. It is not infective to humans.\n\nThe spores of \"K. thyrsites\" are stellate in shape, with 4 valves and 4 polar capsules. Upon infection by the actinosporean stage the sporoplasm migrates to a muscle fibre where it forms a pseudocyst. Within these pseudocysts are the developing spore stages. \nComparison of 18S rDNA sequences of \"Kudoa\" species and other myxozoan species to determine their relationships. They show that \"Kudoa\" species are distinct from other myxozoans analyzed (\"Myxidium\" sp., \"Myxobolus\" sp., and \"Henneguya zschokkei\").\n\"Kudoa thyrsites\" is an interesting member of this group in that apparently has very broad host specificity, infecting many fish species around the world (Table 1).\n\nMembers of the genus Kudoa primarily infect muscle tissue of marine fishes, where they form nodules or pseudocysts containing a great number of individual spores. In lighter infections these pseudocysts are isolated from the fish's immune system within the muscle fibre. More intense infections can result in severe inflammation surrounding infected muscle fibres. Although apparently asymptomatic in all but heavy infections, they are associated with post-mortem degeneration of the tissue. This softening of flesh is most likely a result the release of proteolytic enzymes by the parasite. \nThis causes losses to both aquaculture operations, for instance, where salmon are being reared in \"sea-pens\", and to capture fisheries. Losses are both direct, through the degradation of fish products, and indirectly, through the perception of the consumer that fish from a particular area are of a lower quality.\nThe intensity of \"K. thyrsites\" infection is positively correlated with the severity of flesh softening in Atlantic salmon fillets. Softening of flesh always occurred with heavily infected fillets, while lightly infected fillets showed no softening.\nPrevention and/or control of \"K. thyrsites\" infections is problematic especially in open water netpens. Currently there are no available treatments. One approach to control may be to disrupt the life cycle in some way thereby minimizing the likelihood of infection.\n\nThe myxosporeans have been shown to have complex life cycles using more than one host. Usually a fish and an oligochaete or polychaete worm, and in one case a bryozoan. \nThe life cycle of \"K. thyrsites\" is poorly understood. It has been hypothesized that \"K. thyrsites\" has an indirect life cycle involving some marine invertebrate. Experiments have shown direct transmission of the marine myxosporean \"Myxidium leei\" in sea bream. However, direct transmission of K. thyrsites failed when native fish were fed fresh myxospores. If K. thyrsites does have an indirect life cycle, the intermediate host has yet to be identified.\n\n"}
{"id": "1885554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885554", "title": "Battle of Atoleiros", "text": "Battle of Atoleiros\n\nThe Battle of Atoleiros () took place on 6 April 1384, between a Portuguese force and a punitive expedition from Castile sent by John I. The battle took place near the population centre of the same name in Alentejo. It was the first major battle of the 1383–1385 Crisis.\n\nNuno Álvares Pereira had been chosen to protect the frontier in this area, amid fear that a Castilian force could enter Portugal here. He left Lisbon with 1,000 infantry, adding to the strength of his forces on his way to Atoleiros. The Castilian army consisted of some 6,000 men, mostly cavalry, which was besieging the village of Fronteira. As Pereira approached, the Castilians sent an emissary to him, attempting to persuade him to retire. He refused, and the Castilians advanced to meet him, lifting the siege. The Portuguese formed a defensive square. In the short battle that followed, the Castilian cavalry was unable to break the Portuguese formation, suffering heavy losses. The Portuguese suffered none, and the Castilians withdrew.\n\nThe battle of Atoleiros represents the first effective use of “square tactics” on the battleground. This tactic, in which groups of infantry armed with both missile and hand-to-hand weapons defended themselves from all directions, was so successful that it was still in use over 500 years later during the Napoleonic Wars against mass French cavalry attacks, and during the Zulu War against huge masses of predominantly spear-armed infantry. It was especially effective when the infantry had to fight against strong cavalry.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1885555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885555", "title": "East Kildonan, Winnipeg", "text": "East Kildonan, Winnipeg\n\nEast Kildonan is a primarily residential community in Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada, located in the northeast part of the city. Commonly known by its initials \"E. K.\", the suburb has a population of approximately 35,800 (2016 Census).\n\nEast Kildonan is bounded by the Red River on the west, the lane between Larsen and Harbison Avenues on the south, Panet Road, north of Blantyre Avenue, and the Canadian Pacific Railway Marconi tracks (removed in 2006) on the east, and Oakland Avenue on the north. East Kildonan is made up of the neighbourhoods of Munroe, Morse Place, Rossmere, and Fraser's Grove.\n\nIt is mainly a working and middle class community, though there are poorer pockets south of Munroe Avenue and more affluent areas along the Red River and west of Henderson Highway, East Kildonan's major thoroughfare. There is a small industrial area located between Watt Street and the CPR tracks.\n\nThe name \"Kildonan\" originates from the Parish of Kildonan which was created in 1817. At the time, parishes formed both a land use system and a system of local government. The Parish of Kildonan formed part of the Red River Colony, and was named for the Strath of Kildonan on the Sutherland estate in Scotland where many of the settlers came from.\n\nThe Municipality of Kildonan was established in 1876. From 1876 to 1914 the Rural Municipality of Kildonan included a large area on both sides of the Red River, just north of the original City of Winnipeg. The area remained primarily agricultural until the beginning of the 20th century. It was a centre for market gardening to serve the needs of nearby Winnipeg. In 1903 streetcar service was initiated in the area and this began the area's development as a residential suburb of Winnipeg. In 1906 the more heavily developed southern area of the municipality, known as Elmwood, joined with the City of Winnipeg.\n\nIn 1914 Kildonan was divided in two: East and West Kildonan, with the Red River as the boundary. Subsequently, in 1925, the areas north of Oakland Avenue separated to form the Municipality of North Kildonan. East Kildonan developed rapidly after World War II, the population grew from 8,439 in 1941 to 30,150 in 1971.\n\nIt was incorporated as the City of East Kildonan on July 1, 1957. Incorporation made East Kildonan into Manitoba's sixth largest city, with a population of 20,000. In 1959, the opening of the Disraeli Freeway further accelerated the growth of the area.\n\nIn 1972, East Kildonan, along with the old City of Winnipeg and eleven other municipalities in the Greater Winnipeg Area, amalgamated to form the City of Winnipeg. It was the only suburban municipality to be in favour of the \"unicity\" scheme.\n\n"}
{"id": "1885557", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885557", "title": "Highland Railway X Class", "text": "Highland Railway X Class\n\nThe Highland Railway Drummond 0-6-4T or X class were large tank engines originally intended for banking duty. They were designed by Peter Drummond.\n\nThe first four were built by the North British Locomotive Company and delivered in 1909. A second batch of four was delivered in 1911.\n\nThe design was derived from that of the class K (0-6-0) tender engines and leading dimensions were very similar although the boiler and firebox are recorded as being 'larger' but by an unspecified amount.\n\nThey were not popular with their crews, many thought them heavy and clumsy, and several crews had problems with water capacity. It seems their axleboxes were not well-proportioned either as there are reports of consistent hot box problems.\n\nThey all survived to be taken over by the London, Midland and Scottish Railway (LMS) at the 1923 Grouping. The last was withdrawn in 1936.\n\n"}
{"id": "1885570", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885570", "title": "Luxuriant Dew of the Spring and Autumn Annals", "text": "Luxuriant Dew of the Spring and Autumn Annals\n\nThe Luxuriant Dew of the Spring and Autumn Annals () is one of the works attributed to Dong Zhongshu that has survived to the present, though its compilation might have continued past his lifetime into the 4th century. It is 82 chapters long and about 72,000 words, although three of the chapters within the present text have been lost, and there is considerable textual confusion in other chapters. In its current form, the book deals with topics such as the five elements and their relation to politics. One of the chapters in this book presents the concept of the \"source\" (元), which became important to later Neo-Confucianism.\n\nThe work cannot be considered an authentic work by Dong or even a work mostly written by him. It bears many marks of multiple authorship and is both externally contradictory with other material on Dong's thought, and inconsistent with itself. Different chapters espouse mutually contradictory cosmological schemas, and there even seem to be references to the rise of Wang Mang, which did not happen until a century after the death of Dong. The title \"Luxuriant Dew of the Spring and Autumn Annals\" is not listed in the \"Book of Han\", and there are no references whatsoever to any book of that name before 4th century mentioned by Ge Hong, 500 years after Dong's death.\n\nWhether the work was written by Dong himself has been called into question since the Song dynasty. For the first time the doubt is pronounced in the \"Chongwen Zongmu\" (1034). The skeptical position was argumented by scholars including Zhu Xi, Cheng Yanzuo, Dai Junren, Keimatsu Mitsuo, and Tanaka Masami. Scholars now reject as later additions all of the passages that discuss five elements theory, and much of the rest of the work is questionable as well. It seems safest to regard it as a collection of unrelated or loosely related chapters and shorter works, which could be subdivided into five categories. Most are more or less connected to the \"Gongyang Commentary\" and its school, written by a number of different persons at different times throughout the Han Dynasty. \n\nIndeed, it may be nothing more than the mislabeled remains of a book listed in the \"Book of Han\", the 82-chapter \"Miscellaneous Records of the Gongyang School\" (公羊雜記). Nevertheless, the \"Luxuriant Dew of the Spring and Autumn Annals\" should not be cast aside, especially since it seems to be a misattribution rather than an outright forgery. It remains a valuable compendium of early and mid-Han Confucian thought, if properly interpreted and contextualized, and it had an influence on later thinkers.\n\nSeveral subdivisions have been put forward in the past in an attempt to impose some sort of order on the contents of the \"Luxuriant Dew of the Annals\". One can divide the text into seven main sections, some of which can be further divided into subsections, based on features of both content and structure. These sections are: \n\n\nSection A, the \"Annals\" group, chapters 1-17, is characterized by a concentration on the meaning of \"Annals\" texts, or on more general principles extracted from the canon. \n\nSection B is the \"Huang-Lao\" or \"Daoist\" group. This is one of the better-recognized subdivisions in the text. It is composed of the chapter titles from 18 to 22 and the chapter texts from 19 to 22. (The text of Chapter 18, for reasons discussed elsewhere, should be repositioned in Section G2). One can underestimate the amount of Confucian thought in these essays, some of it displayed in a very subtle manner, but on the whole the spirit is Huang-lao and the canon and Confucian norms are taken lightly here. \n\nSection C concerns political and ethical theory, and once again the chapters can be subdivided into three smaller groupings: \n\nSection D, from 38, \"Reply on the Five Forces\" to 57, \"Things of the same kind stimulate each other,\" discuss the stimulus-response relationship between Heaven and man. Most chapters in the group make extensive use of Yin-Yang and Five Forces concepts, separately or in combination. There is little evident order in the sequence they are presented, and three of the chapters (39, 40, and 54) are missing. \n\nSection E, which runs from Chapter 58, \"The mutual production of the Five Forces,\" to 64, \"The Five Forces and the Five Affairs,\" also discusses stimulus-response cosmology. However, the overwhelming influence in these chapters is from Five Forces theory: the words \"Five Forces\" appear in each of the chapter titles, and Yin-Yang is in a very subordinate position when used at all. As Tanaka Masami and Sarah Queen have pointed out (echoing Su Yu), many close parallels to the Huang-lao Daoist work \"Huai nanzi\" can be found here. \n\nSection F, the twelve chapters from 65, \"A discourse on the suburban sacrifice,\" to 76, \"The significance of sacrifices,\" discusses sacrificial services. Most of the first half of this section is devoted to discussion of the suburban sacrifice, but the texts are in bad shape and the damage seems to be very early. Other topics covered include the four seasonal sacrifices and the starting and stopping of rain (chapters 74 and 75). There is also Chapter 73, the \"Praise-ode to mountains and rivers,\" which can be confidently dated to the last few decades of Former Han at the latest. \n\nSection G is a mixed bag of sometimes rather dull political texts and documents from the \"yangsheng\" \"nourishing life\" school. Only two of the chapters, 79, \"The birthplace of severity and moral power,\" and 80, \"Like the doings of Heaven,\" have proper titles. Chapters 77, \"Following the Way of Heaven,\" 78, \"The actions of Heaven and earth,\" 81, \"Heaven, earth, Yin, and Yang,\" and 82, \"The Way of Heaven acts,\" all lack their own titles and pass under the first few characters of their text. The \"Chapter 18\" text, minus its title, also belongs in this group. (The only other chapters in the book with disturbed or irregular titles are Chapter 1, \"King Zhuang of Chu,\" where the original title \"Luxuriant Dew\" (\"Fanlu\") was appropriated as part of the book title, and Chapter 67, \"The suburban sacrifice,\" where the copyist omitted removing the original title from the head of the essay when the text was recopied.) \n\nThe chapters in Section G fall into two groups: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1885571", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885571", "title": "Mount Morrison (California)", "text": "Mount Morrison (California)\n\nMount Morrison is located in the Sierra Nevada, in the Sherwin Range. It rises south of Convict Lake near the town of Mammoth Lakes.\n\nThe mountain was named for Robert Morrison, a merchant in the town of Benton, who was killed near Convict Lake on September 23, 1871 while he was acting as member of a posse pursuing escaped convicts from the Nevada State Penitentiary. Nearby is Mono Jim Peak which is named for Mono Jim, a Paiute guide, who died in the same gun fight.\n\nSources state that Norman Clyde climbed to the peak on June 22, 1928 and that John Mendendhall also reached the summit in 1928 but the month of his ascent is not documented. There are several routes to the summit, the easiest consisting of a Class 2 scramble and bushwack.\n\nDue to its imposing east face, Mount Morrison is also nicknamed the \"Eiger of the Sierra.\" The east face consists of extremely loose rock and one should exercise extreme caution when attempting the face.\n\nHighly tilted and faulted metasedimentary rocks are exposed on Mount Morrison. Formations include the Ordovician Convict Lake Formation (argillite and siliceous hornfels and slate), the Lower Devonian to Silurian Aspen Meadow Formation (siliceous and calc-silicate hornfels), the Middle Devonian Mount Morrison Sandstone (calcareous quartz sandstone), and the Upper Devonian Squares Tunnel Formation (black chert and argillite). The Mount Morrison Fault passes near the summit.\n\nFulgurites, natural hollow glass tubes, are found at the top of the mountain. These oddities are formed by lightning acting on certain types of sand or soil.\n"}
{"id": "1885573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885573", "title": "Apache HiveMind", "text": "Apache HiveMind\n\nApache HiveMind is an inversion of control (IOC) software project of the Apache Software Foundation written in Java. It takes the form of a services and configuration microkernel.\n\nIn HiveMind, a service is an implementation of a Java interface. Unlike other service-oriented architectures (SOAs), HiveMind is explicit about combining Java code within a single JVM.\n\nThe HiveMind project, formerly a top-level Apache project, was retired 22 April 2009, ending its life in the Apache Attic repository. Its successor is considered to be Tapestry IOC, a Guice-like IoC container for Java EE Model-view-controller web applications.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1885578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885578", "title": "Richard Walker", "text": "Richard Walker\n\nRichard Walker or Dick Walker may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1885580", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885580", "title": "My Life as McDull", "text": "My Life as McDull\n\nMy Life as McDull (Chinese: 麥兜故事) is a 2001 Hong Kong animated feature film. The film surrounds the life of McDull, a hugely popular cartoon pig character created by Alice Mak and Brian Tse which has appeared on comics ever since the 1990s. In 2004, the sequel to this film, \"McDull, Prince de la Bun\", was released.\n\nThe FIPRESCI prize at the 26th Hong Kong International Film Festival (2002)\n\nGrand Prix at the Annecy International Animated Film Festival, Annecy, France (2003)\n\nMcDull is not the brightest kid on the block, but he continually tries to do his best and please his mother. Although it seems that he may not be destined for great things in life as his mother wishes, McDull never gives up.\n\nThe story focuses on several tales about McDull and his childhood. This is told as a narrative reflection of a now adult McDull. These tales muddle up in imaginative uses of Cantonese and heaps of local Hong Kong culture. From tales about a turkey dinner to dreams of following in Lee Lai-shan's footsteps, McDull faces ebbs and flows with his demanding but devoted mother.\n\nThere is a significant amount of material in the movie which is culturally relevant to Hong Kong. For example, a large proportion of the humour and appeal of the movie arises from its complex wordplay and subtle hints of Hong Kong's historical legacy and dynamic.\n\nThe songs featured in the film are bright and beguiling, and are not overbearing as some musical animations are likely to become. The film's animation is trouble-free and colourful changing at times as stories alter, but echoing the fashion of the innovative artwork. It uses a number of contemporary Computer Graphics animations in several scenes to illustrate an urban Hong Kong, but it skillfully shows Hong Kong as the dirty conurbation it is rather than the high-pitched clean cityscape that many travel advertisements like to portray.\n\nThe genial and timid piglet McDull has cheered up the lives of kids, professors, housewives and CEOs, because he epitomises the uncontainable and happy-go-lucky spirit of Hong Kong. His no-holds-barred porcobiography is a frame-by-frame account of life growing up in the slums of Shamshuipo, set against the colourful campaign of a post-97 Hong Kong trudging along regardless of downturn woes. Pouncing shots of busy Kowloon streets, slimy cafés, plus sights and smells of local flavour fused with animation, live object shooting and 3-D computer graphics define the film.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1885584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885584", "title": "Barcombe", "text": "Barcombe\n\nBarcombe is an East Sussex village about 4–5 miles (6.4 km) north of Lewes. It more broadly a civil parish in the Lewes District of East Sussex. Barcombe itself is the older of three settlements in the parish; Barcombe Cross is much more populous and the main hub with the amenities and services, where the villagers evacuated during medieval plague the Black Death; and the latter has a near outpost north of Barcombe Mills on the River Ouse. Hamlets are Spithurst in the north east and Town Littleworth in the north west.\n\nBarcombe Cross is known as Barcombe in the local area and is signposted as such, the only government-defined Built-up Area. Only on maps is it shown in its full name.\n\nBarcombe is noted to Sussex residents and tourists for its 'Mills', a reference to an old water-mill complex on the River Ouse at the base of the hill/plateau on which Barcombe Cross sits. These were a favourite Sunday outing for townsfolk from Lewes and Brighton before the Second World War, when the mills burnt down, as well as its pub restaurants.\n\nBarcombe was recorded in the \"Domesday Book\" as \"Berchamp\", if a name first devised by the Normans then with a softer second syllable than k and thus a reference to field(s) of barley, if rooted in an older name then either barley or another description of hill. South of the village, close to the river, remains have been found of a Roman settlement, investigated by the Culver Archaeological Project. An earlier Iron Age roundhouse was found on the same site, \nBarcombe parish church is dedicated to St Mary, and is in the older village.\n\nBarcombe is home to The Bevern Trust a Sussex Disability Charity and its residential home Bevern View.\n\nBarcombe Bonfire is held annually, two weeks after the Lewes celebration on which it is modelled. The society is largely family-orientated and everyone helps out with torch dipping and bonfire building. There is the Grand Firework Display as well as four processions including the dedicated Children's Procession, visiting societies and a fancy dress competition.\n\nBarcombe is part of the electoral ward \"Barcombe and Hamsey\". The population of this ward at the 2011 census was 2,105, of which 741 lived in the only identified Built-up Area, Barcombe (Cross). The latter had 320 homes, none of which communal establishments.\n\nThe A26 between Lewes and Uckfield runs south-east of the villages. It can be accessed from the centre of the village via Barcombe Mills Road.\nThe A275 runs north of the villages. This links Lewes and Haywards Heath\n\nTwo railway lines ran through the villages: the line between Lewes and Uckfield opened in October 1868; and the line from East Grinstead, part of which is now the Bluebell Railway.\nThere were stations on each of the two lines: Barcombe on the East Grinstead line, and Barcombe Mills on the Uckfield line, with a junction south of the latter before the line continued to Lewes. Barcombe closed on 28 May 1955, whilst Barcombe Mills closed on 4 May 1969. Part of the line is now a cycle track.\n\nThe nearest railway station is now Cooksbridge, about 2½ miles away.\n\nThere are many bridleways and footpaths in and around the villages, linking to Lewes, Isfield, Newick and many other places. The Sussex Ouse Valley Way runs through Barcombe Mills to the south.\n\nA bus service is provided to the bus stop at the north of Barcombe Cross and outside the junction with the old road at Barcombe Mills. Services are provided by Countryliner: the number is 122. The 121 will diverge from its main route and operate via Barcombe Cross on request; resulting in it visiting Chailey 15 minutes later than usual. The buses connect with the trains at Cooksbridge. There are no buses on Sundays to Barcombe Cross and no buses at all on weekends to Barcombe Mills.\n\nThe nearest big airport is London Gatwick, 45 minutes' drive to the north; this offers domestic, European and international flights.\n\nShoreham Airport is about half an hour's drive to the west. This small Art Deco airport offers flights to France and the Channel Islands. It is mainly used for private planes though.\n\nThere is now only one fishable lake in the parish, Cornwell's Reservoir which is controlled by Lewes Angling Club. \nThe main Barcombe Reservoir has been closed to anglers for some years.\n\nBernard Holden, veteran of the Burma campaign, president of the Bluebell Railway and father of standard gauge railway preservation was born in Barcombe Station in 1908.\n\nKim Sears (also Murray), wife of tennis star Andy Murray, was born in the village.\n\n"}
{"id": "1885585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885585", "title": "Evig Poesi", "text": "Evig Poesi\n\nEvig Poesi (\"Norwegian for «eternal poetry»\") is an Oslo-based Norwegian rap group. The music is influenced by artists such as A Tribe Called Quest, De la Soul and DJ Krush.\n\nOriginally a Christian rap group, the members of the group and their beliefs have changed over time, to the point that the group today has lyrics criticising religion and superstition, embracing instead scientific wonder.\n\nEvig Poesi were some of the very first to seriously practice emceeing and freestyle sessions in Norwegian.\n\nEvig Poesi was founded by rappers Petter Smart (real name Jon Petter Etnestad) and Deep Thought autumn 1998, and was first called MHC. The name quickly changed into Evig Poesi. After a couple of years of rhyme-writing, beat-production, concert-playing and freestyling, the EP Åndelig Føde was released May 2001. DJ Broder T joined the group during the summer of 2001. The Summer 2003, they released their second EP, \"Drekka Melk\". The video they made off this release got heavy rotation on Norwegian TV-Channels such as NRK, and ZTV. Etnestad began using his new pen name Smart 9000 as a producer, and stopped calling himself Petter Smart.\n\nIn January 2006 Evig Poesi released their first full-length album: \"I Krig og Kjærlighet\", (\"In love and war\").\n\nAfter the release the group changed. For a while it defined itself as a loose collective of artists and musicians, all connected to the MC/producer Smart 9000. Eventually, Smart 9000 teamed up with new addition André Jensen, and Evig Poesi took the form of a duo. The group's days of preaching Christianity were over.\n\nSince then the group has released several albums:\n\nIn 2011 they released the album \"Verdens Ende\" (\"The World's End\") as Evig Poesi, Conurbia and Definite. This was a collaboration with Trondheim rap duo Conurbia and Oslo based rapper Definite, released on the underground record label Bonsaiety Records. The lead track from the album was \"Djevelen i Detaljene\" (\"The Devil in the Details\"), for which Evig Poesi produced their second professional music video.\n\nIn 2012 they released the album \"Ingenting er Gratis\" (\"Nothing is Free\") on their own, producing music videos for many of the tracks, and deliberately making the entire album freely downloadable (as an ironic wink at the title).\n\nBoth current group members (Smart 9000 and André Jensen) have continued making music independently, usually in collaborations with other artists. They have also competed in Norwegian freestyle rap competition \"Skeez TV\", and made a name for themselves there.\n\n"}
{"id": "1885598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885598", "title": "Akromiya", "text": "Akromiya\n\nAkromiya (sometimes referd as \"Akramiya\", in Russian : Акрамия) is an Islamist organization founded by Akrom Yo‘ldoshev.\n\nAkromiya broke away from Hizb ut-Tahrir, a terrorist organization according to the Kazakhstan government, when Akrom Yo‘ldoshev formed Akromiya in the Fergana Valley area in Uzbekistan in 1996. The Uzbek Government says Yo‘ldoshev's pamphlet \"Yimonga Yul\" (Way to Faith) criticizes HT's goal of creating an international caliphate for impracticality. Yo‘ldoshev argues in favor of creating an Islamic state on a local level instead.\n\nMuhammad Sadik Muhammad Yusuf, the former Chief Mufti of Uzbekistan, said, \"Akromiya has nothing in common with Hizb-ut-Tahrir, and other radical political Islamic organisations. It is for entirely different reasons that I consider Akrom Yo‘ldoshev's teaching a heresy.\" Yusuf says Yo‘ldoshev teaches that Muslims do not have to pray five times daily or fast during Ramadan.\nSarah Kendzior, a scholar of Central Asia writing in the journal \"Demokratizatsiya\", cast doubt on the group's existence, arguing that the Uzbek government created the organization to justify putting down the 2005 civil unrest in Uzbekistan.\n\nForum 18, a human rights organization based in Norway, reported that during the Andijan massacre members of Akromiya \"who had acquired weapons did not prevent free movement out of the square by those gathered there, but their attitude to the hostages did not meet international standards for the treatment of prisoners of war. Forum 18 learnt that several hostages received severe beatings. The hostages had wire tied round their necks and were placed at the perimeter of the square as human shields. Therefore the first to die from the shots fired by Uzbek government forces were the hostages.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1885599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885599", "title": "List of Schedule 2 substances (CWC)", "text": "List of Schedule 2 substances (CWC)\n\nSchedule 2 substances, in the sense of the Chemical Weapons Convention, are chemicals that can either be used as chemical weapons themselves or used in the manufacture of chemical weapons but that have small-scale applications outside of chemical warfare and so can be legitimately manufactured in small quantities. An example is thiodiglycol, which can be used in the manufacture of mustard agents but is also used as a solvent in inks.\n\nManufacture must be declared as their production is subject to declaration to the OPCW per Part VII of the \"Verification Annex\", and they may not be exported to countries that are not party to the Convention.\n\nAs with the other schedules, they are sub-divided into Part A substances, which are chemicals that can be used directly as weapons, and Part B, which are precursors useful in the manufacture of chemical weapons.\n\nChemicals that can be used as weapons, or used in their manufacture, but that have no, or almost no, legitimate applications as well are listed in Schedule 1, whilst Schedule 3 is used for chemicals that also have widespread industrial uses.\n\nThe following criteria shall be taken into account in considering whether a toxic chemical not listed in Schedule 1 or a precursor to a Schedule 1 chemical or to a chemical listed in Schedule 2, part A, should be included in Schedule 2:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1885602", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885602", "title": "John William Godward", "text": "John William Godward\n\nJohn William Godward (9 August 1861 – 13 December 1922) was an English painter from the end of the Neo-Classicist era. He was a protégé of Sir Lawrence Alma-Tadema, but his style of painting fell out of favor with the rise of modern art. \n\nGodward was born in 1861 and lived in Wilton Grove, Wimbledon. He was born to Sarah Eboral and John Godward (an investment clerk at the Law Life Assurance Society, London). He was the eldest of five children. He was named after his father John and grandfather William. He was christened at St. Mary's Church in Battersea on 17 October 1861. The overbearing attitude of his parents made him reclusive and shy later in adulthood.\n\nHe exhibited at the Royal Academy from 1887. When he moved to Italy with one of his models in 1912, his family broke off all contact with him and even cut his image from family pictures. Godward returned to England in 1921, died in 1922, and is buried in Brompton Cemetery, West London.\n\nOne of his best-known paintings is \"Dolce far Niente\" (1904), which was purchased for the collection of Andrew Lloyd Webber in 1995. As in the case of several other paintings, Godward painted more than one version; in this case, an earlier (and less well-known) 1897 version with a further 1906 version.\n\nHe committed suicide at the age of 61 and is said to have written in his suicide note that \"the world is not big enough for [both] myself and a Picasso\".\n\nHis estranged family, who had disapproved of his becoming an artist, were ashamed of his suicide and burned his papers. Only one photograph of Godward is known to survive.\n\nGodward was a Victorian Neo-Classicist, and therefore, in theory, a follower of Frederic Leighton. However, he is more closely allied stylistically to Sir Lawrence Alma-Tadema, with whom he shared a penchant for the rendering of Classical architecture — in particular, static landscape features constructed from marble.\n\nThe vast majority of Godward's extant images feature women in Classical dress posed against landscape features, although there are some semi-nude and fully nude figures included in his \"oeuvre,\" a notable example being \"In The Tepidarium\" (1913), a title shared with a controversial Alma-Tadema painting of the same subject that resides in the Lady Lever Art Gallery. The titles reflect Godward's source of inspiration: Classical civilization, most notably that of Ancient Rome (again, a subject binding Godward closely to Alma-Tadema artistically).\n\nGiven that Classical scholarship was more widespread among the potential audience for his paintings during his lifetime than in the present day, meticulous research of detail was important in order to attain a standing as an artist in this genre. Alma-Tadema was an archaeologist as well as a painter, who attended historical sites and collected artifacts he later used in his paintings: Godward, too, studied such details as architecture and dress, in order to ensure that his works bore the stamp of authenticity. \n\nIn addition, Godward painstakingly and meticulously rendered other important features in his paintings, animal skins (the paintings \"Noon Day Rest\" (1910) and \"A Cool Retreat\" (1910) contains examples of such rendition) and wildflowers (\"Nerissa\" (1906) and \"Summer Flowers\" (1903) are again examples of this).\n\nThe appearance of beautiful women in studied poses in so many of Godward's canvases causes many newcomers to his works to categorize him mistakenly as being Pre-Raphaelite, particularly as his palette is often a vibrantly colorful one. The choice of subject matter (ancient civilization versus, for example, Arthurian legend) is more properly that of the Victorian Neo-classicist. However, it is appropriate to comment that in common with numerous painters contemporary with him, Godward was a 'High Victorian Dreamer', producing beautiful images of a world which, it must be said, was idealized and romanticized, and which in the case of both Godward and Alma-Tadema, came to be criticized as a world-view of 'Victorians in togas'.\n\nGodward \"quickly established a reputation for his paintings of young women in a classical setting and his ability to convey with sensitivity and technical mastery the feel of contrasting textures, flesh, marble, fur and fabrics.\" Godward's penchant for creating works of art set in the classical period probably came from the time period in which he was born. \"The last full-scale classical revival in western painting bloomed in England in the 1860s and flowered there for the next three decades.\"\n\n\n\nThis list is not a complete list but serves to illustrate the extent of Godward's output.\n\n"}
{"id": "1885606", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885606", "title": "Solms-Wildenfels", "text": "Solms-Wildenfels\n\nSolms-Wildenfels was a minor County around Wildenfels in south-western Saxony, Germany. The House of Solms had its origins at Solms, Hesse.\nSolms-Wildenfels was a partition of Solms-Baruth. In 1741 it was partitioned between itself and Solms-Sachsenfeld, and reintegrated that County upon its extinction in 1896. Solms-Wildenfels was mediatised to Hesse-Darmstadt in 1806.\n\n"}
{"id": "1885616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885616", "title": "List of Schedule 3 substances (CWC)", "text": "List of Schedule 3 substances (CWC)\n\nSchedule 3 substances, in the sense of the Chemical Weapons Convention, are chemicals which can either be used as toxic chemical weapons themselves or used in the manufacture of chemical weapons but which also have legitimate large-scale industrial uses.\n\nPlants which manufacture more than 30 tonnes per year must be declared and can be inspected as per Part VIII of the \"Verification Annex\", and there are restrictions on export to countries which are not CWC signatories. Examples of these substances are phosgene, which has been used as a chemical weapon but which is also a precursor in the manufacture of many legitimate organic compounds, and triethanolamine, used in the manufacture of nitrogen mustard but also commonly used in toiletries and detergents.\n\nAs with the other schedules, they are sub-divided into Part A substances, which are chemicals that can be used directly as weapons, and Part B which are precursors useful in the manufacture of chemical weapons.\n\nChemicals which can be used as weapons, or used in their manufacture, but which have no, or almost no, legitimate applications as well are listed in Schedule 1, whilst Schedule 2 is used for chemicals which have legitimate small-scale applications.\n\nThe criteria for including a chemical in this schedule is that it is not listed in either of the other two, and:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1885618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885618", "title": "Comp Air 10", "text": "Comp Air 10\n\nThe Comp Air 10 is a turboprop-powered light civil utility aircraft manufactured in kit form. Very large for a homebuilt aircraft, it is configured as a mainly conventional high-wing monoplane with either taildragger or tricycle undercarriage. Its close-set twin tails are an unusual design feature for an aircraft in its class, intended to ensure that the aircraft can be parked inside standard-size hangars.\n\nA total of eleven examples had been completed and flown by the end of 2011.\n\n"}
{"id": "1885619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885619", "title": "David Rall", "text": "David Rall\n\nDavid Platt Rall (August 3, 1926 – September 28, 1999) was a cancer specialist and a leader in environmental health studies, whose work in environmental health helped turn it into a scientific discipline. Rall also advanced public health and prevention. He directed the National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences from 1971 to 1990, year in which he retired. His work on toxicology and carcinogenesis was recognized by his appointment as the first director of the National Toxicology Program in 1978. He held the rank of Assistant Surgeon General in the United States Public Health Service. He also chaired the World Health Organization's Program on Chemical Safety.\n\nBorn in Naperville, Illinois, Rall attended North Central College and received his BS degree in 1946 where his father was president; his MS in Pharmacology from Northwestern University in 1948; his M.D. and Ph.D. in Pharmacology from Northwestern University School of Medicine in 1951. Rall interned at Bellevue Hospital in New York City from 1952 – 1953 when he joined the National Cancer Institute in 1954. He began his research career as a scientist at NCI, where he served in a variety of research and administrative positions until 1971. Rall also served as a surgeon (1955–1959), a senior surgeon (1959–1960), medical director (1963–1971), and assistant surgeon general (1971–1990) in the United States Public Health Services. He pioneered the effort to identify and understand the elements that make up the human environment and their consequences for human health. Rall was devoted in educating scientists, governments, and the world community to the critical need to address the existence of environmental agents and their consequences for human health.\n\nRall's early work on the blood brain barrier led to modern treatment to prevent the spread of leukemia cells to the brain. Much of Rall's work focused on reducing the side effects of anticancer drugs, which are often toxic in patients when administered in large enough doses to destroy cancer cells. He also researched the effects of prolonged exposure to chemicals in the environments of people in certain occupations. In March 1971, he left the left the established world of research and clinical treatment at the National Institutes of Health's (NIH) main campus in Bethesda armed with a desire to reach beyond the treatment of chronic disease to seek its underlying causes and, through research, to learn how to prevent such diseases caused by environmental agents. Rall arrived in the newly established Research Triangle Park in North Carolina, where he set about the work of conceptualizing and then actualizing a state-of- the-art research facility among the pine forest and pastureland of the area, a prescient move that would situate the Institute at the epicenter of what would become an internationally renowned research commons. He created the NIEHS journal, \"Environmental Health Perspectives\", in 1972.\n\nRall developed the NIEHS Extramural Program to administer an expanding portfolio of PHS grants and awards in environmental health science to researchers at colleges and universities throughout the United States. Rall served as the U.S. coordinator of cooperative environmental health programs between the United States and the U.S.S.R., the United Kingdom, Egypt, Japan, the People's Republic of China, Taiwan, Italy, Finland, and Spain. As a result of his work in attempting to strengthen international scientific cooperation, in 1975 the NIEHS was designated by the World Health Organization (WHO) as a Collaborating Center for Environmental Health Effects. In 1980, Rall played a leading role in an effort to establish the WHO's International Programme on Chemical Safety (IPCS), the goal of which is to provide an internationally evaluated scientific basis for the assessment of the risks to human health and the environment of chemicals.\nIn 1978, the NIEHS was designated as the focal point for the establishment of the NTP, a cooperative effort to coordinate toxicological testing programs within the Department of Health and Human Services, and Rall was appointed its director. Also, during that NTP-formative era, Rall helped establish the 1978 Public Law that initiated the innovative Report on Carcinogens. He was the author of some 200 scientific publications and was awarded the DHEW Distinguished Service Medal of the PHS and the Arnold J. Lehman Award of the Society of Toxicology. In addition to numerous awards he received an honorary Doctorate from the University of Ohio School of Medicine. In 1988, Rall received a Merit Award from the Northwestern Alumni Association for his professional accomplishments.\n\nRall received many recognitions for his lifetime commitment to public service and scientific research including the PHS's Distinguished Service Medal, which he received in 1975 and again in 1990 for sustained leadership in the development of the field of environmental health science. In 1979 he was accepted as a Member of the National Academy of Sciences' Institute of Medicine (IOM), whose membership consists of the preeminent physicians of the United States. In 1988 the WHO presented Rall with the Health for All 2000 Medal. He was recognized in 1989 by the Institute of Occupational Health in Helsinki, which awarded to him its Distinguished Service Medal. Rall was also honored in 1989 by the Collegium Ramazzini, an international academic society that examines critical issues in occupational and environmental medicine with the goal of preventing disease and promoting health around the world. Also, the National Academy of Medicine created the David Rall Award, honoring him, given to a member of the Institute of Medicine who has demonstrated particularly distinguished leadership as a chair of a study committee or other such activities in a manner that was particularly exemplary, demonstrating a commitment substantially above and beyond the usual expectations of a committee chair.\n\nIn 1990, Rall retired from the NIEHS but remained extremely active in the environmental health arena. He chaired the IPCS and held a variety of other positions including foreign secretary of the IOM, board member of the Environmental Defense Fund, chairman of the Scientific Advisory Council of the Hawaii Heptachlor Research and Education Foundation, and member of the Board of Scientific Counselors of the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health. Following his retirement, he chaired the program of chemical safety for the World Health Organization, served as foreign secretary of the Institute of Medicine at the National Academy of Sciences and was a board member of the Environmental Defense Fund. Rall also was a scientific counselor at the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health. The American Public Health Association established a permanent honor in recognition of Dr. Rall’s life and work: the David P. Rall Award for Advocacy. The David P. Rall Building, the main edifice on the NIEHS’s Research Triangle Park campus, was dedicated to his memory in 2000.\n\nRall died in Bordeaux, France as a result of injuries suffered in an automobile accident.\n"}
{"id": "1885620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885620", "title": "Solms-Rödelheim-Assenheim", "text": "Solms-Rödelheim-Assenheim\n\nSolms-Rödelheim-Assenheim was a County of southern Hesse and eastern Rhineland-Palatinate, Germany. The House of Solms had its origins at Solms, Hesse.\n\nSolms-Rödelheim-Assenheim was thrice created by a union of the Counts of Solms-Assenheim and Solms-Rödelheim, and on the first two occasions repartitioned into those statelets. Solms-Rödelheim-Assenheim was mediatised to Hesse-Kassel (or Hesse-Cassel) and Hesse-Darmstadt in 1806.\n\n\nLudwig Heinrich, Count 1722-1728 (1667-1728), \"third surviving son of Johann August, inherited Assenheim 1699, Rödelheim 1722\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1885622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885622", "title": "Water Orton", "text": "Water Orton\n\nWater Orton is a village near the River Tame in the North Warwickshire borough of Warwickshire in England. It is located between Castle Bromwich and Coleshill, and borders the West Midlands metropolitan county boundary to the north, west and south. At the census in 2001, the population was 3,573, falling to 3,444 at the 2011 Census.\n\nWater Orton was first documented in an Assize Roll of 1262 as \"Overton\" which means farm by the bank or edge. This usage continued to be recorded through the 13th and 14th centuries, but the name \"Oreton\" is recorded in the Warwickshire Feet of Fines in 1431. \"Water Ouerton\" is used in the Parish register of Aston in 1546 and \"Water Ouerton al. Water Orton\" in the Feet of Fines of 1605 and 1652.\n\nIt is now thought that Water Orton may have been included in the Domesday Book in 1086 as 'Wavre' (Over) with Castle Bromwich.\n\nThe oldest part of the village is centred on the western end of Old Church Road and was designated a conservation area in 1983. This area overlooking the crossing of the River Tame formed the original medieval settlement of Overton and has seen the discovery of pottery remains dating back to the 12th century. It contains a number of listed buildings including \"The Chestnuts\", a 15th-century house with late 16th or early 17th century additions that may have been the old manor house; and \"Wakefield House\", a timber framed house with a 17th-century main block and a 16th-century cross wing.\n\nWater Orton was originally part of the parish of Aston, forming a narrow extension of the parish along the River Tame to the north of the parish of Coleshill. Until the 14th century Water Orton's inhabitants attended ordinary church services at the chapel of ease in Castle Bromwich. In 1346 they built their own chapel and were granted a license to have their own priest, although they remained subject to the mother church of Aston until 1871. The original chapel no longer remains but the graveyard in Old Church Road survives, including the stone village cross dating from 1347.\n\nThe present Parish Church of St Peter and St Paul was built in 1879 for £4000 to a design by Bateman and Corser. It had a fine spire, which unfortunately had to be dismantled in the 1980s due to the effects of atmospheric pollution.\n\nWater Orton Bridge was built in 1520 by John Vesey, the wealthy Sutton Coldfield-born Bishop of Exeter. It replaced an earlier bridge that was recorded as being in a poor state in 1459 when Reginald Boulers, the Bishop of Coventry and Lichfield, offered to issue an indulgence to anybody who would contribute to its repair.\n\nUntil the 1840s Water Orton was mainly an agricultural village, but this changed with the coming of the railways. The first one was from Birmingham to Derby via Water Orton, Coleshill, Whitacre Heath and Tamworth. Later a junction was constructed and another line was built via Kingsbury to Tamworth. The lines pass through the centre of the village. The present railway station dates from 1908 and is the second station. There were extensive sidings and much commercial traffic here, especially during and after the Second World War, until the activities of Dr Beeching in the 1960s. An effect of the railway was to increase house building in the village. Commuters could now make the journey to Birmingham's Lawley Street and Curzon Street (later New Street) Railway Stations in a shorter time than by road. This made the village an ideal residential area for Birmingham professionals who wanted to get away from the city and live in the country. The railway also brought the Meat Industry here. There were large stock yards near the sidings and next to the Dog Inn in Marsh Lane. Cattle were offloaded from rail wagons into pens, then driven two miles down the road to butchers' slaughter houses in Castle Bromwich, when meat was provided for nearby villages.\n\nThere is a grade II listed bridge, which is scheduled as an Ancient Monument, over the River Tame on the road to Minworth. It was built by Bishop John Vesey of Sutton Coldfield in 1520.\n\nWater Orton today has a wide variety of services, including: a small High Street with a variety of shops and take aways, two pubs, a Primary School, two other Churches, Doctor and Dental surgeries, two Parks, a Cricket Club (Water Orton CC), a Rugby Club (Old Saltleians RFC) and two amateur football sides. In 2010, a new village hall was completed, called (The Link) replacing the Parish Hall. In addition, Water Orton is home to the amateur dramatics company, (Company of the Curtain), who produced all of their productions in the Parish Hall until December 2008. As well as rail services both in the village, and a short distance away in Coleshill, there is a half-hourly, switching to hourly in the evenings, bus service (number 70; formerly 90) to Birmingham and Coleshill. Some new housing was built during 2003 and 2004. \nLocal events include an annual summer carnival and car boot sales.\n\nThe village is close to the M6, M6 toll and M42 motorways. Water Orton railway station was built in 1842 and is located at the junction of the B4118 and Birmingham Road. The station has limited services to Birmingham and Leicester. The village is also served by the X70 bus to Birmingham and Chelmsley Wood via Coleshill.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1885625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885625", "title": "Southwest F.O.B.", "text": "Southwest F.O.B.\n\nSouthwest F.O.B. (\"Freight On Board\") was a 1960s psychedelic rock group from Dallas, Texas, now perhaps best remembered because it featured Dan Seals and John Colley, who later found great success as the duo England Dan and John Ford Coley. The Southwest F.O.B. also included Michael (Doc) Woolbright on the bass.\n\nStarted by guitar player Larry \"Ovid\" Stevens when they were students at W. W. Samuell High School in Dallas, the band secured a minor hit in 1968 (reaching number 56) with a cover of the West Coast Pop Art Experimental Band song \"Smell of Incense\", nationally released on the Stax subsidiary label Hip Records. The band's sole LP was also called \"Smell of Incense\"; it has been reissued as a remastered, expanded CD by Sundazed Records, now out of print. Later success eluded them, and the band broke up in 1969. \n\nDan Seals died on March 25, 2009. He and classmate John Colley, who later changed the spelling of his last name to Coley, formed a group with three other Samuell students called the Playboys Five. That became Theze Few, which morphed into Dallas high school band Southwest F.O.B. \n\n\"We were very popular in the late 1960s\", Coley said. \"We even opened for Led Zeppelin and Three Dog Night, and remember, we were just high school kids\". \n"}
{"id": "1885626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885626", "title": "Jacob J. Shubert", "text": "Jacob J. Shubert\n\nJacob J. Shubert (c. 1879 – December 26, 1963) was a naturalized American theatre owner/operator and producer and a member of the famous theatrical Shubert family.\n\nBorn in Vladislavov, in the Suwałki Governorate of Congress Poland, a part of the Russian Empire (present-day Kudirkos Naumiestis, Lithuania), (according to his obituary, he was born in Syracuse) he was the sixth child and third son of Duvvid Schubart and Katrina Helwitz, a Jewish couple. Jacob was still a small child when the family emigrated in 1881 to the United States, settling in Syracuse, New York where a number of Jewish families from their hometown were already living. \n\nHis father's alcoholism kept the family in difficult financial circumstances and both he and his older brothers received little in the way of education and had no choice but to go to work at a young age. With borrowed money, he and brothers Sam and Lee Shubert eventually embarked on a business venture that led to them becoming the successful operators of several theatre houses in upstate New York.\n\nThe Shubert brothers decided to expand their theatrical operations and in 1900 Sam and Lee Shubert moved to New York City leaving Jacob at home to manage their existing theatres. In New York, the elder Shuberts laid the foundations for what was to become the largest theatre empire in the 20th century including Broadway's Winter Garden and Shubert Theatres. In 1905 Sam Shubert was traveling to Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania on business when the passenger train he was on collided with several freight cars. Shubert died as a result of the injuries he sustained. His death changed the brother's business dynamics and Jacob assumed a much larger role.\n\nTogether, although often feuding, Jacob and Lee Shubert overcame the stranglehold on the industry by the Theatrical Syndicate's monopoly under Abe Erlanger and Mark Klaw to build the largest theatre empire in the 20th century.\n\nJacob Shubert's son, John, took over as head of the operations in the 1950s but died unexpectedly on November 17, 1962 and a year later, Jacob died around age 84. He was divorced from his wife, Katherine, in 1917, but was married to Muriel at the time of his death. He was interred in the family plot in the Salem Fields Cemetery in Brooklyn, New York.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1885627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885627", "title": "Sammy Keyes", "text": "Sammy Keyes\n\nSammy Keyes is a series of mystery novels written by Wendelin Van Draanen for children aged 10–16. The series focuses on Sammy's adventures as an amateur sleuth. The books, which are narrated in the first-person perspective by Sammy, involve detective fiction as well as comedy. Sammy begins her adventures in the first book as a seventh-grader, and the series will end when she completes the eighth grade. Eighteen books are planned for the series. grades 6 10 \n\nThe Sammy Keyes novels are based in the fictional town of Santa Martina, which is located in California. Santa Martina is closely based on the real city of Santa Maria, California, down to names of streets used throughout the series, and well known landmarks. Other fictional cities frequently mentioned are Santa Luisa (San Luis Obispo), and Sisquane (Sisquoc). The city of Pomloc is also mentioned once, a reference to the city of Lompoc. All of these places are located near to the real city of Santa Maria. Sammy is an unofficial teenage detective who solves mysteries while also dealing with her personal friend life, family life, and relationship life.\n\n\n Sammy secretly lives with her grandmother in a ‘seniors only’ apartment complex. She’s not allowed to make much noise, so she passes the time spying on her neighbors with binoculars. One morning she is looking into the windows of the hotel across the street, when she spots a thief burgling one of the rooms. Instead of calling the police, Sammy watches until the thief catches her staring. They both stare at each other until Sammy breaks the spell by waving at him.\n\n\"Sammy Keyes and the Hotel Thief\" won the 1999 Edgar Award for Best Children's Mystery. The series has been nominated for the award five times. The nominated books are \"Sammy Keyes and the Curse of Moustache Mary\", \"Sammy Keyes and the Search for Snake-Eyes\", \"Sammy Keyes and the Art of Deception\" and \"Sammy Keyes and the Wild Things\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1885633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885633", "title": "Algoz", "text": "Algoz\n\nAlgoz () is a former civil parish in the municipality of Silves, Portugal. In 2013, the parish merged into the new parish Algoz e Tunes.\n\nThe name of the village has its origins in the Arabic word \"Al-Gûzz\" which derives from the name of the Turkic Oghuz people from the Middle East, whose members settled in the area in the 12th century. The patron saint of the village is Our Lady of Mercy. To the south of the village on a hill is the Chapel of Nossa Senhora do Pilar, from here there are fine views across the area. On the eastern slopes of this hill there is meadow called Amoreira. There have been many archaeological finds here revealing much about Algoz past. There are also two other chapel in the district. The one in the west is dedicated to Saint Sebastian and one in the west dedicated to Saint Joseph.\n\nThe village of Algoz is in an area of the Algarve called the Barrocal or gulley region. It is south east of Silves and it is south south east of Lisbon. The settlement stretches along an open valley, bounded on the south by a mountain and on the west by further highlands. The parish is bordered to the north by São Bartolomeu de Messines, to the east is Tunes and Pêra on the south and west. A stream also called the Algoz runs to the north of the village from an easterly direction, and from the north west a tributary joins the stream which is called Barranco Longo. Further on the stream flows under the Alcantarilha bridge the name of the stream changes to the Enxurrada or the Alcantarilha stream. This watercourse finally flows into the atlantic between Pêra and Armacão de Pêra.\n\nThe village has a kindergarten, primary, preparatory and a secondary school. There are recently new built offices for the parish authorities. There is also a sports club which is called Sport Algoz e Benfica who is named after one of the biggest Portuguese football clubs Sport Lisboa e Benfica. There is a market held on the second Monday of every month and a fair is held twice a year on 10 August, the day of Sâo Miguel, and on the day of São Luís on the last Sunday in September. Not far from the village there is a railway station.\n\nThe lands around the village of Algoz is used for agricultural production. The produce includes wheat, almonds, figs and olive oil. There are also vineyards. There are also many hot houses for growing tomatoes, cauliflowers, strawberries and other early fruits which are the sent off to the big central markets. There are also flourmillls and olive pressing plants in the parish.\n\nThe area also has manufacturing plants that produce bricks, tiles and other ceramic items. There are also a couple of plant that specialise in reinforced concrete products.\n\n"}
{"id": "1885635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885635", "title": "National Toxicology Program", "text": "National Toxicology Program\n\nThe National Toxicology Program (NTP) is an inter-agency program run by the United States Department of Health and Human Services to coordinate, evaluate, and report on toxicology within public agencies.\n\nThe National Toxicology Program is headquartered at the National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences (NIEHS). The NIEHS Director, currently Dr. Linda Birnbaum, Ph.D., D.A.B.T., A.T.S., also concurrently serves as NTP Director. The Associate Director of the Program is Dr. John R. Bucher, Ph.D. \n\nThe NIEHS National Toxicology Program's Office of the Report on Carcinogens, directed by Dr. Ruth Lunn, Dr.P.H., is responsible for publishing the Report On Carcinogens; with the current year 2011 Report included, there have been 12 editions.\n\nThe program was established in 1978 by Joseph A. Califano, Jr., then the United States Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare (today known as the Secretary of Health and Human Services). The program arose from congressional concerns about the health effects of chemical agents in the environment. In October 1981, Secretary Richard S. Schwiker granted permanent status to the program.\n\nThe NTP Interagency Center for the Evaluation of Alternative Toxicological Methods (NICEATM) supports the development and evaluation of new, revised, and alternative methods for chemical safety testing. Alternative methods are methods for safety testing of chemicals and chemical products that use fewer or no animals or that minimize or prevent animal pain and distress. NICEATM is directed by Dr. Warren Casey, PhD, DABT.\n\nThe NIH Revitalization Act of 1993 directed NIEHS to establish criteria for the validation and regulatory acceptance of alternative test methods and a process for their subsequent implementation. This led to the establishment of the Interagency Coordinating Committee on the Validation of Alternative Methods via the ICCVAM Authorization Act of 2000, which stated that ICCVAM would exist as a permanent interagency committee of NIEHS under NICEATM.\n\nIn addition to supporting ICCVAM, NICEATM activities include:\nNICEATM publishes results of its analyses of alternative test methods and approaches in the peer-reviewed literature and presents at meetings of the Society of Toxicology and the World Congress on Alternatives and Animal Use in the Life Sciences.\n\n"}
{"id": "1885640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885640", "title": "Autopackage", "text": "Autopackage\n\nAutopackage is a free computer package management system aimed at making it simple to create a package that can be installed on all Linux distributions, created by Mike Hearn around 2002.\n\nIn August 2010, Listaller and Autopackage announced that the projects will merge.\n\nProjects such as aMSN and Inkscape offered an Autopackage installer, and Freecode offered content submitters a field to put the URL of Autopackages. The list of available packages is very limited, and most program versions are obsolete (for example, the most recent Autopackage of GIMP is 2.2.6, even though GIMP is now at version 2.8.2, as of August 2012).\n\nAutopackage was designed for installing binary, or pre-compiled, versions of non-core applications such as word processors, web browsers, and personal computer games, rather than core libraries and applications such as operating system shells. \nConcept of autopackage was to \"improve\" Linux to a desktop platform, with stable binary interfaces comparable to Windows and MacOS.\n\nAutopackage is not intended to provide installation of core applications and libraries for compatibility reasons. Using Autopackage to distribute non-core libraries is something of a thorny issue. On the one hand distributing them via Autopackage allows installation on a greater range of systems, on the other hand there can be conflicts with native package dependencies.\n\nAutopackage is intended as a complementary system to a distribution's usual packaging system, such as RPM and deb. Unlike these formats, Autopackage verifies dependencies by checking for the presence of deployed files, rather than querying a database of installed packages. This simplifies the design requirements for autopackage by relying on available resources, rather than necessitating tracking all the package choices of all targeted distributions.\n\nPrograms that use autopackage must also be relocatable, meaning they must be installable to varying directories with a single binary. This enables an autopackage to be installed by a non-root user in the user's home directory.\n\nAutopackage packages are indicated by the .package extension. They are executable bash scripts, and can be installed by running them. Files in an Autopackage archive are not easily extracted by anything other than Autopackage itself as the internal format must be parsed in order to determine file layout and other issues.\n\nAutopackage programs are installed to hard-coded system paths, which may conflict with existing packages installed by other means, thus leading to corruption. This can usually be remedied by uninstalling an older version of a package being installed with Autopackage.\n\nThe Autopackage files can also be installed and removed using the Listaller toolset. Listaller simply includes the Autopackage packages into its own package container format and handles Autopackage like any other Listaller package file.\n\n"}
{"id": "1885641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885641", "title": "Solms-Laubach", "text": "Solms-Laubach\n\nSolms-Laubach was a County of southern Hesse and eastern Rhineland-Palatinate, Germany. The House of Solms had its origins at Solms, Hesse.\n\nSolms-Laubach was originally created as a partition of Solms-Lich. Solms-Laubach partitioned between itself and Solms-Sonnenwalde 1561; between itself, Solms-Baruth and Solms-Rödelheim 1607; and between itself and Solms-Sonnenwalde 1627. Solms-Laubach inherited Solms-Sonnenwalde in 1615. With the death of Count Charles Otto in 1676, it was inherited by Solms-Baruth and recreated as a partition in 1696. Solms-Laubach was mediatised to Hesse-Darmstadt in 1806.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1885646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885646", "title": "Bennettitales", "text": "Bennettitales\n\nBennettitales (also known as cycadeoids) is an extinct order of seed plants that first appeared in the Permian period and became extinct in most areas toward the end of the Cretaceous (i.e. they existed from about 252 to 66 million years ago), although some Bennettitales appear to have survived into Oligocene times in Tasmania and eastern Australia. The taxon comprises two groups, the Cycadeoidaceae, represented by \"Cycadeoidea\" and \"Monanthesia\", and the Williamsoniaceae including \"Williamsonia\", \"Williamsoniella\", \"Wielandella\" and \"Ischnophyton\" which had slender, branching trunks and either bisporangiate or monosporangiate strobili.\n\nOriginally, Bennettitales were thought to be cycads for their strap-like leaves, however their flower-like reproductive parts separate the two groups. The two families of Bennettitales (Cycadeoidaceae and Williamsoniaceae) each have their own unique traits. Cycadeoidaceae had stout trunks and bisporangiate strobili (cones) serving as their reproductive structures and Williamsoniaceae either had bisporangiate or monosporangiate cones, and distinctly slender and branching woody trunks. These bisporangiate cones consist of layers of protective bracts, a curved microsporophyll, and an ovulate receptacle. The bisporangiate cones remained closed at maturation, and most likely were obligate self-fertilizers.\n\nIn general, Bennettitales had leaves attached adaxially (toward the stem) with a distinct midrib. Veins stem from the midrib at an approximately 90 degree angle. They have tough cuticles as well, as they were able to withstand high sulfur dioxide levels in the Triassic/Jurassic period for considerable time. Some were characterized by thick trunks and pinnately compound leaves that bore a superficial resemblance to those of cycads, differing primarily in stomatal arrangement.\n\nBennettitales were first identified by Engler in 1892 as separate from Cycadales, and were then further differentiated into the two groups Cycadeoidaceae and Williamsoniaceae by Caruthers. The Euanthial hypothesis erected by Arber and Parking in 1907 posited that angiosperms arose from Bennettitales, as evidenced by the wood-like structures and rudimentary flowers. This theory placed them among the anthophytes, leading it to be known more commonly as the Anthophyte hypothesis. Based on morphological data, however, Bennettitales were classified as a monophyletic group when paired with Gnetales. Genetic data showed that modern extant seed-plants form their own monophyletic group, excluding Bennettitales. Modern theory suggests that Bennettitales, Angiosperms, and Gigantopteridales form a clade based on the presence of oleanane. Recent evidence from examining phase-contrast X-ray images of gymnosperm seeds suggested that the Euanthial hypothesis is supported. This is still a hotly debated topic. Mostly, it is understood that by morphological data, Euanthial hypothesis is supported but modern cladistic tests suggest otherwise. Uncovering information about this extinct group is still far from finished, as new species are being discovered such as \"Nilssoniopteris binggouensis\" in 2014 and \"Anomozamites sanjiaocunensis\" in 2015.\n\nBennettitales are also linked to the diversification of insects due to their flower-like reproductive parts. Specifically, the origin of insect mouth parts is connected to Bennettitales and Gnetales.\n\n"}
{"id": "1885649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885649", "title": "RNA polymerase II", "text": "RNA polymerase II\n\nRNA polymerase II (RNAP II and Pol II) is a multiprotein complex that transcribes DNA into precursors of messenger RNA (mRNA) and most small nuclear RNA (snRNA) and microRNA. It is one of the three RNAP enzymes found in the nucleus of eukaryotic cells. A 550 kDa complex of 12 subunits, RNAP II is the most studied type of RNA polymerase. A wide range of transcription factors are required for it to bind to upstream gene promoters and begin transcription.\n\nEarly studies suggested a minimum of two RNAPs: one which synthesized rRNA in the nucleolus, and one which synthesized other RNA in the nucleoplasm, part of the nucleus but outside the nucleolus. In 1969, science experimentalists Robert Roeder and William Rutter definitively discovered an additional RNAP that was responsible for transcription of some kind of RNA in the nucleoplasm. The finding was obtained by the use of ion-exchange chromatography via DEAE coated Sephadex beads. The technique separated the enzymes by the order of the corresponding elutions, Ι,ΙΙ,ΙΙΙ, by increasing the concentration of ammonium sulfate. The enzymes were named according to the order of the elutions, RNAP I, RNAP II, RNAP IΙI. This discovery demonstrated that there was an additional enzyme present in the nucleoplasm, which allowed for the differentiation between RNAP II and RNAP III.\n\nThe eukaryotic core RNA polymerase II was first purified using transcription assays. The purified enzyme has typically 10–12 subunits (12 in humans and yeast) and is incapable of specific promoter recognition. Many subunit-subunit interactions are known.\n\n\nRPB3 is involved in RNA polymerase II assembly. A subcomplex of RPB2 and RPB3 appears soon after subunit synthesis. This complex subsequently interacts with RPB1. RPB3, RPB5, and RPB7 interact with themselves to form homodimers, and RPB3 and RPB5 together are able to contact all of the other RPB subunits, except RPB9. Only RPB1 strongly binds to RPB5. The RPB1 subunit also contacts RPB7, RPB10, and more weakly but most efficiently with RPB8. Once RPB1 enters the complex, other subunits such as RPB5 and RPB7 can enter, where RPB5 binds to RPB6 and RPB8 and RPB3 brings in RPB10, RPB 11, and RPB12. RPB4 and RPB9 may enter once most of the complex is assembled. RPB4 forms a complex with RPB7.\n\nEnzymes can catalyze up to several million reactions per second. Enzyme rates depend on solution conditions and substrate concentration. Like other enzymes POLR2 has a saturation curve and a maximum velocity (\"V\"). It has a \"K\" (substrate concentration required for one-half \"V\") and a \"k\" (the number of substrate molecules handled by one active site per second). The specificity constant is given by \"k\"/\"K\". The theoretical maximum for the specificity constant is the diffusion limit of about 10 to 10 (\"M\"\"s\"), where every collision of the enzyme with its substrate results in catalysis. In yeast, mutation in the Trigger-Loop domain of the largest subunit can change the kinetics of the enzyme.\n\nBacterial RNA polymerase, a relative of RNA Polymerase II, switches between inactivated and activated states by translocating back and forth along the DNA. Concentrations of [NTP] = 10 μM GTP, 10 μM UTP, 5 μM ATP and 2.5 μM CTP, produce a mean elongation rate, turnover number, of ~1 bp (NTP) for bacterial RNAP, a relative of RNA polymerase II.\nRNA polymerase II undergoes extensive co-transcriptional pausing during transcription elongation. This pausing is especially pronounced at nucleosomes, and arises in part through the polymerase entering a transcriptionally incompetent backtracked state. The duration of these pauses ranges from seconds to minutes or longer, and exit from long-lived pauses can be promoted by elongation factors such as TFIIS. In turn, the transcription rate influences whether the histones of transcribed nucleosomes are evicted from chromatin, or reinserted behind the transcribing polymerase.\n\nRNA polymerase II is inhibited by α-Amanitin and other amatoxins. α-Amanitin is a highly poisonous substance found in many mushrooms. The mushroom poison has different effects on the each of the RNA Polymerases: I, II, III. RNAP I is completely unresponsive to the substance and will function normally while RNAP III has a moderate sensitivity. RNAP II, however, is completely inhibited by the toxin. Alpha-Amanitin inhibits RNAP II by strong interactions in the enzyme's \"funnel\", \"cleft\", and the key \"bridge α-helix\" regions of the RPB-1 subunit.\n\nRNA polymerase II holoenzyme is a form of eukaryotic RNA polymerase II that is recruited to the promoters of protein-coding genes in living cells. It consists of RNA polymerase II, a subset of general transcription factors, and regulatory proteins known as SRB proteins.\n\nPart of the assembly of the holoenzyme is referred to as the preinitiation complex, because its assembly takes place on the gene promoter before the initiation of transcription. The mediator complex acts as a bridge between RNA polymerase II and the transcription factors.\n\nThis is an outline of an example mechanism of yeast cells by which chromatin structure and histone posttranslational modification help regulate and record the transcription of genes by RNA polymerase II.\n\nThis pathway gives examples of regulation at these points of transcription:\n\nPlease note that this refers to various stages of the process as regulatory steps. It has not been proven that they are used for regulation, but is very likely they are.\n\nRNA Pol II elongation promoters can be summarised in 3 classes.\n\n\nThe C-terminus of RPB1 is appended to form the C-terminal domain (CTD). The carboxy-terminal domain of RNA polymerase II typically consists of up to 52 repeats of the sequence Tyr-Ser-Pro-Thr-Ser-Pro-Ser. The domain stretches from the core of the RNAPII enzyme to the exit channel, this placement is effective due to its inductions of \"RNA processing reactions, through direct or indirect interactions with components of the RNA processing machinery\". The CTD domain does not exist in RNA Polymerase I or RNA Polymerase III. The RNA Polymerase CTD was discovered first in the laboratory of C.J.Ingles at the University of Toronto and also in the laboratory of J Corden at Johns Hopkins University during the processes of sequencing the DNA encoding the RPB1 subunit of RNA polymerase from Yeast and Mice respectively. Other proteins often bind the C-terminal domain of RNA polymerase in order to activate polymerase activity. It is the protein domain that is involved in the initiation of transcription, the capping of the RNA transcript, and attachment to the spliceosome for RNA splicing.\n\nRNA Polymerase II exists in two forms unphosphorylated and phosphorylated, IIA and IIO respectively. The transition between the two forms facilitates different functions for transcription. The phosphorylation of CTD is catalyzed by one of the six general transcription factors, TFIIH. TFIIH serves two purposes: one is to unwind the DNA at the transcription start site and the other is to phosphorylate. The form polymerase IIA joins the preinitiation complex, this is suggested because IIA binds with higher affinity to the TBP (TATA-box binding protein), the subunit of the general transcription factor TFIID, than polymerase IIO form. The form polymerase IIO facilitates the elongation of the RNA chain. The method for the elongation initiation is done by the phosphorylation of Serine at position 5 (ser5), via TFIIH. The newly phosphorylated Ser5 recruits enzymes to cap the 5' end of the newly synthesized RNA and the \"3' processing factors to poly(A) sites\". Once the second Serine is phosphorylated, Ser2, elongation is activated. In order to terminate elongation dephosphorylation must occur. Once the domain is completely dephosphorylated the RNAP II enzyme is \"recycled\" and catalyzes the same process with another initiation site.\n\nOxidative DNA damage may block RNA polymerase II transcription and cause strand breaks. An RNA templated transcription-associated recombination process has been described that can protect against DNA damage. During the G1/G0 stages of the cell cycle, cells exhibit assembly of homologous recombination factors at double-strand breaks within actively transcribed regions. It appears that transcription is coupled to repair of DNA double-strand breaks by RNA templated homologous recombination. This repair process efficiently and accurately rejoins double-strand breaks in genes being actively transcribed by RNA polymerase II.\n\n\n(Wayback Machine copy)\n"}
{"id": "1885651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885651", "title": "James Stanley, 7th Earl of Derby", "text": "James Stanley, 7th Earl of Derby\n\nJames Stanley, 7th Earl of Derby, KG (31 January 160715 October 1651) of Lathom House in the parish of Lathom in Lancashire, was an English nobleman, politician, and supporter of the Royalist cause in the English Civil War. Before inheriting the title in 1642 he was known as Lord Strange. He was feudal Lord of the Isle of Man (\"Lord of Man\"), where he was known as \"Yn Stanlagh Mooar\" (\"the Great Stanley\").\n\nHe was born at Knowsley, near Lathom House, on 31 January 1607, the eldest son of William Stanley, 6th Earl of Derby (1561–1642), KG, by his wife Elizabeth de Vere, a daughter of Edward de Vere, 17th Earl of Oxford.\n\nAfter travelling abroad he was elected as a Member of Parliament for Liverpool in 1625. On 2 February 1626 he was created a Knight of the Bath on the coronation of King Charles I. 1626 he served jointly with his father as Lord Lieutenant of Lancashire, Lord Lieutenant of Cheshire and Chamberlain of the City of Chester. He assisted in the administration of the Isle of Man and in 1627 was appointed Lord of Mann, a position first awarded in 1405 by King Henry IV to his ancestor John Stanley (–1414), KG. Subsequently, he was appointed Lord-Lieutenant of North Wales.\n\nThe ancient title Baron Strange of Knockyn, created in 1299, as it had been created by writ, was capable of being inherited by females. It had become abeyant in 1594 following the death without male progeny of Ferdinando Stanley, 5th Earl of Derby, 13th Baron Strange (1559–1594), who however left three daughters and co-heiresses legally capable of inheriting that ancient title, whereupon it became abeyant between all three. They were not however, as females, legally capable of inheriting the earldom, which went to his younger brother William Stanley, 6th Earl of Derby (1561–1642). By modern reckoning the abeyance of the barony of Strange of Knockyn was not terminated until 1921.\n\nHowever, in 1594 the status of this barony was not apparent to the family nor to the authorities in the House of Lords, and all parties assumed that the 6th Earl had also become 14th Baron Strange of Knockyn. On 7 March 1628 his son and heir apparent, James Stanley (later 7th Earl of Derby), was summoned to the House of Lords through a writ of acceleration as \"Lord Strange\", the supposed subsidiary title of his father. When it was discovered that his father's assumption of the barony was erroneous, it was deemed that there were two baronies of Strange, one created in 1299 then in abeyance, and another created \"accidentally\" in 1628.\n\nHe took no part in the political disputes between King and Parliament and preferred country pursuits and the care of his estates to the royal court or public life. Nevertheless, when the Civil War broke out in 1642, Lord Strange devoted himself to the king's cause. With the death of his father on 29 September 1642 he succeeded as 7th Earl of Derby.\n\nHis plan of securing Lancashire at the beginning and raising troops there, which promised success, was however discouraged by Charles, said to be jealous of his power and royal lineage, who commanded his presence at Nottingham.\n\nHis subsequent attempts to recover the county were unsuccessful. He was unable to get possession of Manchester, was defeated at the Battle of Chowbent and at the Battle of Lowton Moor, and in 1643 after gaining Preston failed to take Bolton and Lancaster Castle. Finally, after successfully beating off the attack by Sir William Brereton on Warrington, he was defeated at the Battle of Whalley and withdrew to York, whereupon Warrington surrendered to the Parliamentarian forces.\n\nIn June 1643 he left for the Isle of Man to attend to affairs there. In the summer of 1644 he took part in Prince Rupert's successful campaign in the north. The Siege of Lathom House was relieved (the defence of which had been led by his wife Charlotte de la Tremoille), and the town of Bolton was taken with much bloodshed, in what became known as the Bolton Massacre.\n\nHe followed Rupert to the Battle of Marston Moor, and after the complete defeat of Charles's cause in the North, withdrew to the Isle of Man, where he held out for the king and offered asylum to royalist fugitives. His administration of the Isle imitated that of Thomas Wentworth, 1st Earl of Strafford in Ireland. It was strong rather than just. He maintained order, encouraged trade, remedied some abuses, and defended the people from the exactions of the church; but he crushed opposition by imprisoning his antagonists, and aroused a prolonged agitation by abolishing the tenant-right and introducing leaseholds.\n\nIn July 1649, following the execution of Charles I, he refused with scorn the terms offered him by Henry Ireton. On 12 January 1650 he was made a Knight of the Garter by the late king's exiled son the future Charles II. He was chosen by the future Charles II to command the troops of Lancashire and Cheshire, and on 15 August 1651 he landed at Wyre Water in Lancashire in support of Charles II's invasion, and met Charles on 17 August 1651. He proceeded to Warrington but failed to obtain the support of the Presbyterians due to his refusal to take the Covenant, and on 25 August was totally defeated at the Battle of Wigan Lane, being severely wounded and escaping with difficulty.\n\nHe was with Charles at the Battle of Worcester after which on 3 September 1651 he accompanied him to Boscobel House. While on his way north alone he was captured near Nantwich and was tried by court-martial at Chester on 29 September and was found guilty of treason under the terms of the Act of Parliament passed in the preceding month (which declared those who corresponded with Charles II guilty of treason), and he was condemned to death. His appeal to Parliament for pardon, although supported by Oliver Cromwell, was rejected. He endeavoured to escape but was recaptured by Captain Hector Schofield. He was taken to Bolton for his execution, because of his part in the Bolton Massacre. He was beheaded on 15 October 1651 at the market cross in Churchgate, Bolton, near the Man and Scythe Inn, owned at the time by the Earl of Derby's family. Today the market cross bears an inscribed tablet commemorating the execution. In the Inn survives a chair inscribed \"15th October 1651: In this chair James, 7th Earl of Derby sat at the Man and Scythe Inn, Churchgate, Bolton, immediately prior to his execution\". He was buried in the \"Derby Chapel\", built in about 1572 in accordance with the will of the 3rd Earl of Derby, in the Church of St Peter and St Paul, Ormskirk.\n\nOn 26 June 1626 he married Charlotte de La Trémoille (1599–1664), a daughter of Claude de La Trémoille, duc de Thouars by his wife Countess Charlotte Brabantina of Nassau. Her maternal grandparents were William I, Prince of Orange (1533–1584), founder of the House of Orange-Nassau and ancestor of the monarchy of the Netherlands, whose wife was Charlotte de Bourbon, a daughter of Louis de Bourbon, Duke of Montpensier. By Charlotte he had progeny six sons and four daughters, three of whom died young and two of whom died unmarried:\n\n\n\nLord Derby was a man of deep religious feeling and of great nobility of character, who though unsuccessful in battle, served the king's cause with single-minded purpose and without expectation of reward. His political usefulness was handicapped in the later stages of the struggle by his dislike of the Scots, whom he regarded as guilty of the death of Charles I and as unfit instruments of the Restoration. According to Clarendon he was \"a man of great honour and clear courage\", and his defects \"the result of too little knowledge of the world\".\n\nLord Derby left in manuscript \"A Discourse Concerning the Government of the Isle of Man\" (later printed in the \"Stanley Papers\" and in Francis Peck's \"Desiderata Curiosa\", vol. ii.) and several volumes of historical collections, observations and devotions (\"Stanley Papers\") and a commonplace book.\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "1885652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885652", "title": "Solms-Hohensolms-Lich", "text": "Solms-Hohensolms-Lich\n\nSolms-Hohensolms-Lich was a first a County and later Principality with Imperial immediacy in what is today the federal Land of Hessen, Germany.\n\nThe county was originally created in 1718 as a union of the counties of Solms-Hohensolms and Solms-Lich for Count Friedrich Wilhelm zu Solms-Hohensolms-Lich (1682-1744). It existed from 1718 until 1792.\n\nIt was raised to a Principality of the Holy Roman Empire in 1792 for Prince Karl Christian zu Solms-Hohensolms-Lich (1725-1803). Solms-Hohensolms-Lich was mediatised to Austria, Hesse-Darmstadt, Prussia and Württemberg in 1806. The had its origins at Solms, Hesse. The Prince of still resides at in Lich.\n\nThe House of Solms-Hohensolms-Lich is a Hessian princely family, and a line of the House of Solms-Braunfels. The House of Solms-Hohensolms-Lich originally were imperial counts, raised to the rank of Imperial Prince in 1792.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1885656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885656", "title": "Curdworth", "text": "Curdworth\n\nCurdworth is a village and civil parish in the North Warwickshire district of the county of Warwickshire in England. The population taken at the 2011 census was 1,115.\n\nCurdworth is 11 miles east of the centre of Birmingham. North Warwickshire borders the Warwickshire borough of Nuneaton and Bedworth to the east, the county of Leicestershire to the north-east, Staffordshire to the north-west and Birmingham in the West Midlands to the south.\n\nThe village is sandwiched between Junctions T1 of the M6 Toll and Junction 9 of the M42 motorways and the busy A4097 Kingsbury Road.\n\nHams Hall road freight terminal (on the site of the old Hams Hall power stations) and The Belfry Golf Courses and Hotel are also close by.\n\nCurdworth and Minworth both originated in the 6th or 7th centuries, being established by Anglian settlers, and are historically associated with the Arden family (William Shakespeare's maternal relations). Curdworth is probably corrupted from Crida's Worth. \"Worth\" means \"property of\" and the Mercian Crida owned land here. Curdworth is mentioned in the Domesday Survey (1086).\n\nThe local parish church is dedicated to St Nicholas and St Peter ad Vincula. Adjacent to the churchyard is the King George V Playing Fields, which was originally a raised clay and pebble base for a medieval Saxon manor complex, which was attached to the church. This site and the moated Curdworth Hall, also a Saxon structure that was located at the top of Farthing Lane, were of great importance in the area.\n\nRalph Ardern inherited the manor of Curdworth between 1382 (the death of his father, Henry de Ardern) and 1408 (the death of his mother).\n\nThe remains of a moat, associated with the Ardens, are now buried under the M42. This site is thought to have been their home before they moved to Park Hall in Castle Bromwich.\n\nAt the edge of the playing fields is ‘The Bomb Hole', as known by locals, which is actually a marl pit, where a fertiliser consisting of clay and calcium carbonate was extracted.\n\nIn August 1642 the first skirmish between the Roundheads and Cavaliers of the Civil War (1642–49) took place in the fields to the south of Curdworth, the Battle of Curdworth Bridge. One of the musket balls fired left a mark in a nave window of the church. Some of the casualties are supposed to be buried in the graveyard.\n\nIn 1995 and 2000 Curdworth earned the title of Best Kept Village in Warwickshire, in the large village class. The village also earned the title in 2007 of Best Kept Village in North Warwickshire, in the medium-sized village class.\n\n"}
{"id": "1885661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885661", "title": "DJ Hurricane", "text": "DJ Hurricane\n\nDJ Hurricane (born Wendell Timothy Fite on January 12, 1965) is an American hip hop DJ, producer and rapper. He is best known for his work with the Beastie Boys. He was a member of the groups Solo Sounds and The Afros and recorded three solo albums, featuring many well-known artists such as Xzibit, Public Enemy, Kool G Rap, Black Thought, Papoose and Talib Kweli.\n\nOne of New York's premier hip-hop artists on the turntables, DJ Hurricane fostered his skills alongside Run D.M.C. in the Hollis, Queens area of New York City. His first hip-hop experience was with Davy Dmx the first hip-hop DJ from Hollis. Hurricane became his rapper for The Solo Sounds crew who performed at block parties and Russell Simmons promotion events. He was also a member of the Hollis Crew. Hurricane began rhyming at the age of 13, Jam Master Jay and Hurricane were best friends in school. When Jam Master Jay got the job to DJ for Run D.M.C. he asked Hurricane to come on tour. While serving as the muscle on the 1986 Raising Hell tour, he became friends with the Beastie Boys, who were the tour's opening act. Hurricane and Davy DMX collaborated and made \"Davy's Ride\" album in 1987. The next big tour The Together Forever Tour, with Run-DMC The Beastie Boys and Davy DMX, saw Hurricane perform with all three acts every night. Hurricane later formed the Hollis, Queens-based novelty group The Afros along with DJ Kippy-O and Kool Tee. The Afros were the first group signed to Jam Master Jay's JMJ Records, releasing the single \"Feel It\" and the album \"Kickin' Afrolistics\" in 1990. They made cameos in various rap music videos and concerts before disbanding. \n\nWhen the Beastie Boys were stuck without a DJ they asked Hurricane and he did them a favor. It was not long before the Beasties returned the favor and offered Hurricane an opportunity to be their exclusive DJ. That gig would last for 13 years. In 1993, along with the Beastie Boys, he contributed the track \"It's The New Style\" to the AIDS-benefit album \"No Alternative\" produced by the Red Hot Organization. As the Beasties rose in fame with each successive album in the 1990s, Hurricane simultaneously reveled in the spotlight, releasing his first solo album in 1995 on Grand Royal, titled \"The Hurra\" (guest artists include the Beastie Boys, MC Breed, and Sen Dog). The single \"Stick 'em Up\" was the first single on the movie CB4 soundtrack. Hurricane started his own production company, Don't Sleep Productions in 1999.\n\nAfter having parted ways with the Beasties prior to their album \"Hello Nasty\" in 1998, Hurricane did co-write the song \"Three MC'S and One DJ\" for The Beastie Boys. Hurricane released his second album \"Severe Damage\" on Wiija Records in the UK. It was only released in the UK and Asia. Hurricane's third solo album via TVT, \"Don't Sleep\", which found him much more conceptually collected and with a broad scope of guest artists, including Kool G Rap, Xzibit, Scott Weiland, Public Enemy, Rah Digga, Talib Kweli, Pharoahe Monch, Ad-Rock, Black Thought, Big Gipp, Hittman among others. Hurricane produced the entire album. The track \"Come Get It\" featured Flipmode Squad peaked at No. 73 of Billboard Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Songs.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1885665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885665", "title": "Tooting Bec Lido", "text": "Tooting Bec Lido\n\nTooting Bec Lido is an open-air fresh water swimming pool in South London. It is the largest fresh water swimming pool by surface area in the United Kingdom, being 100 yards (91.44 m) long and 33 yards (30.18 m) wide.\n\nThe Lido is on Tooting Bec Common between Tooting and Streatham. An original condition of construction was that it should be concealed from views across the common by a surrounding earth ramp. This ramp is now largely covered with bird-filled trees, except where it is breached by the new entrance.\n\nThe alternating bright red, yellow, and green doors of the changing cubicles seen above the turquoise water make the Lido a popular location for advertisement \"shoots\" and other filming. Brad Pitt's boxing \"pool\" scene in \"Snatch\" was filmed at the Lido.\n\nThe Lido is operated and maintained by the London Borough of Wandsworth.\n\nThe Lido is open to the general public from late May to the end of September each year. Tooting Bec Lido is home to the South London Swimming Club (SLSC) who have exclusive use of the Lido during the winter months, when the pool is open between 7am and 2pm. Members of SLSC can gain free entry when the pool is open to the public in summer. Adult SLSC membership is currently (2018) priced at £28 plus £110 for an annual lido pass.\n\nTooting Bec Lido is one of Britain's oldest open-air pools – it opened to the public on Saturday 28 July 1906 as the Tooting Bathing-Lake. Digging the lake had been proposed by the Reverend John Hendry Anderson, Rector of Tooting, as a project to provide work for unemployed local men. It holds one million gallons (4,500 m) of water. \nSegregation of the sexes was originally enforced, with women and girls confined to one morning a week. Mixed bathing was not introduced until 1931, and then only at specified times. At the same time an \"aerator\", or fountain, was added to help pump the water round the pool and keep it clean. The main reason given for this act of modernisation was that more women would be swimming in the pool and higher standards of hygiene were apparently needed.\n\nFive years later, in 1936, a cafe was built along with cubicles with proper doors. It was around this time that the pool became known as a \"lido\" (as this was when the term came into widespread use in England).\n\nTooting Bec Lido was nearly closed as a result of Wandsworth council's financial cutbacks in the early 1990s, which resulted in the closure of the borough's other lido at King George's Park. It was saved as a result of the campaigning efforts of the SLSC, who took over the management of the Lido outside the summer season.\n\nSince 1999, Wandsworth has invested in making improvements to the Lido.\n\nThe most visible (and controversial) was the move of the public entrance to the northern \"shallow end\". This removed the need for children and non-swimmers to pass along the narrow paths at the southern \"deep end\". The new entrance was initially highly visible from across the Common, reduced the lido's sense of seclusion, and made the lido's northern terrace windier. Plantings of willow trees outside the entrance are starting to soften the visual impact.\n\nThe pool was drained and repainted in 2005 in advance of a summer programme of events to celebrate the Lido's centenary. More fundamental works to reline the pool and relay paving, requiring a prolonged closure period, took place over the winter of 2006–07. The Lido reopened to members of the SLSC in March 2007, when they hosted the Cold Water Championships.\n\nIn 2017 a new Pavilion building was constructed at the deep end of the pool on the site of the former entrance. This was funded by a large contribution from the accumulated reserves of the SLSC, grant support from SportEngland and funding from Wandsworth Council. The Pavilion provides a new all year round sports hall and improved facilities for the life guarding staff. Adjacent to the pavilion is some additional terrace space, where is it intended that the brick arches of the original entrance will be reconstructed as a memorial.\n\n"}
{"id": "1885666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885666", "title": "Solms-Braunfels", "text": "Solms-Braunfels\n\nSolms-Braunfels was a County with Imperial immediacy in what is today the federal Land of Hesse in Germany.\n\nSolms-Braunfels was a partition of Solms, ruled by the House of Solms, and was raised to a Principality of the Holy Roman Empire in 1742. Solms-Braunfels was partitioned between: itself and Solms-Ottenstein in 1325; itself and Solms-Lich in 1409; and itself, Solms-Greifenstein and Solms-Hungen in 1592. Solms-Braunfels was mediatised to Austria, Hesse-Darmstadt, Prussia and Württemberg in 1806.\n\n\n\nThe princely House of Solms-Braunfels became extinct with Georg Friedrich Victor in 1970. Braunfels Castle was inherited by the last Prince's son-in-law, the Count of Oppersdorff who changed the family name in 1969 to Oppersdorff-Solms-Braunfels. \n"}
{"id": "1885667", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885667", "title": "Falavarjan", "text": "Falavarjan\n\nFalavarjan (, also Romanized as Falāvarjān, Falāvar Jān, and Felāvarjān; also known as Pol-e Vargān, Pol-e Varqān, Pul-i-Vargān, and Mollāvarjān) is a city and capital of Falavarjan County, Isfahan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 37,740, in 9,097 families.\n\nThe ancient name of this city was Barze which means the branch of a tree or cultivation. This name gradually changed to Varjan. During the Safavid period due to the construction of a bridge on the Zayandeh Rood (river), Varjan was renamed Polavarjan and thence to Falavarjan. The city is a part of Esfahan metropolitan area.\nFor its public transit system, the city is served by Falavarjan County Municipalities Mass Transit Organization bus network.\n\nIslamic Azad University of Falavarjan\nIslamic Azad University of Falavarjan has been founded in 1984.\n"}
{"id": "1885668", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885668", "title": "Football Association of Indonesia", "text": "Football Association of Indonesia\n\nThe Football Association of Indonesia, commonly called PSSI (Indonesian: \"Persatuan Sepakbola Seluruh Indonesia)\" sometimes translated as All-Indonesian Football Association) is the governing body of football in Indonesia. It was founded on 19 April 1930, fifteen years before Indonesian independence. PSSI joined the Asian Football Confederation in 1954 and FIFA in 1952.\n\nPSSI was established by Soeratin Sosrosoegondo, who graduated from Harvard and returned to Indonesia in 1928. He became the first Indonesian to work at his company, a Dutch enterprise in Yogyakarta. He later resigned from the company and became more active in the revolutionary movement.\n\nTo accomplish his mission, Soeratin held many meetings with Indonesian professional football players, mostly through personal contacts because they wanted to avoid the Dutch police. Later, at a meeting that was held in Jakarta with Soeratin, the head of Voetbalbond Indonesische Jakarta (VIJ), and other players, the group decided to establish a national football organisation. On 19 April 1930, almost all non-national organisations, such as VIJ Jakarta, BIVB Bandung, Perserikatan Sepakraga Mataram (PSM), IVBM Magelang, VVB Solo, MVB Madiun, and SIVB Surabaya gathered at the final meeting and established \"Persatoean Sepak Raga Seloeroeh Indonesia\" (Football Association of Indonesia or PSSI) with Soeratin as the first leader.\n\nIn PSSI's earlier years, football was used to resist the Dutch control of the colonies by gathering all the footballers. In 1936, when PSSI became stronger, NIVB was changed to \"Nederlandsh Indische Voetbal Unie\" (NIVU, meaning \"Football Union of Dutch East Indies\") and cooperation with the Dutch began. In 1938, with \"Dutch East Indies national football team\" as their name, NIVU sent their team to the 1938 FIFA World Cup at France. At the time, most of the players came from NIVU instead of PSSI, and there were nine players of Chinese origin. As a result, Soeratin expressed his protest since he wanted a match between NIVU and PSSI before the FIFA World Cup. In addition, he was also disgraced because the flag that was used at the World Cup matches involving the Dutch East Indies was the Dutch flag. Soeratin then cancelled the agreement with NIVU at the PSSI congress in 1939 in Solo.\n\nWhen the Japanese armies came to Indonesia, the PSSI became inactive because Japan classified it as a (Japanese sport association).\n\nCurrently, Indonesia has the following football national teams:\n\nPSSI is made up of five levels of national football leagues, which are Liga 1, Liga 2, Liga 3, and Piala Indonesia as the domestic cup (s) to compete clubs from all divisions level.\n\nThere are other football competitions on national level, namely the National Youth League (U-15), Indonesian Women Football Tournament, Indonesian National Futsal League and Indonesia Super League U-21 which are held in similar esteem to the ISL.\n\nFurthermore, each regional level (and lower) football associations in the country has its own annual amateur football competition structure involving local clubs.\n\n\nPSSI has 4 boards in its structure, namely: PT. Liga Indonesia Baru which is responsible for the Liga 1 and Liga 2, the Board for Amateur Leagues (BLAI) for Liga 3, Board for National Team (BTN) for national teams and Board for Futsal National Team (BFN) for national futsal teams.\n\nFormer chairman of PSSI Nurdin Halid was sentenced to prison as a result of corruption. Although he was urged to resign his position, he was able to resist with the help of one of the political party leaders in the country. FIFA conducted an inspection into the claims but did not continue past this phase. The case was never investigated again.\n\nAt the end of 2010, during the AFF Cup final between Indonesia and Malaysia, Nurdin Halid accepted a lunch invitation from Aburizal Bakrie, a wealthy businessman and owner of Pelita Jaya. At the time, the national team was preparing for the finals and the training was disrupted by the lunch invitation and another ceremony accepted by Nurdin Halid was unwelcome. This upset many in the country because it seemed that the national team was being used to propel Halid's image. Indonesia ended up losing to Malaysia with the aggregate 4-2.\n\nFormer Indonesia manager Alfred Riedl, who coached the team during the tournament, stated that the lunch invitation was \"wasting time\".\n\nIn January 2011, someone named \"Eli Cohen\" had sent an e-mail to the President of Indonesia and several other Indonesian leaders indicating that the officers of PSSI had been involved in bribery for the 2010 AFF Cup final. He wrote that the officers gained billions of rupiah from the bet to prepare the campaign in the next PSSI congress. This case is under investigation.\n\nOn 1 April 2011, FIFA Emergency Committee met and announced that, on 4 April, control of the PSSI would pass to a normalisation committee made up of personalities in Indonesian football to oversee presidential elections by 21 May. It also barred Halid, George Toisutta (the Indonesia Armed Forces general), Arifin Panigoro (founder of Liga Primer Indonesia and Nirwan Bakrie (Halid`s vice-president, and brother of Aburizal Bakrie) from contending for the presidency seat.\n\nFIFA also rescinded the power of the current PSSI executive committee after FIFA's emergencies committee decreed it was \"not in control of football in Indonesia\" and had lost \"all credibility.\" In a statement released on 4 April 2011, FIFA said that the current PSSI leadership's lack of control over Indonesian football was evidenced by \"the failure to gain control of the run-away league (LPI) set up without the involvement of PSSI or by the fact it could not organise a congress whose sole goals were to adopt an electoral code and elect an electoral commission.\" It said that its emergency committee had concluded that the PSSI leadership \"had lost all credibility\" and was no longer \"in a position anymore to lead the process to solve the current crisis.\"\n\nThe Normalisation Committee, made up of personalities in Indonesian football who are not seeking electoral office or a position on an electoral commission, led by famous public figure and former PSSI chairman, Agum Gumelar, is to take over running of Indonesian football until new leadership is elected by 21 May.\n\nOn 9 July 2011, Djohar Arifin Husin was elected chairman of the PSSI from 2011 to 2015 through an Extraordinary Congress of the PSSI held in 2011. Djohar was elected after defeating the other candidate, Agusman Effendi. His vice-chairman was Farid Rahman. \n\nOn 18 April 2015, PSSI was suspended by Ministry of Sports and Youth. PSSI did not comply with the government policy after disobeying three warning letters that sent by the ministry. Based on that, the Youth and Sports Minister provided administrative sanctions by not recognising all sports activities carried out by the PSSI. The decision applied since the letter was assigned. The warning letters was sent because of PSSI's decision to halt Indonesia Super League amidst the dispute between PSSI and government's Indonesian Professional Sports Agency (BOPI) over the eligibility of Arema Cronus F.C. and Persebaya Surabaya to play in the league. FIFA had threatened the country with a ban, but BOPI insisted that FIFA should understand that besides FIFA regulation, there are also laws that are applied and must be complied by all national football related parties as part of the Indonesian big family, so FIFA's warning to ban Indonesia is thought as an insult to the country's sovereignty. President of Indonesia, Joko Widodo had supported the Sport Minister decision to not to revoke the suspension as the President believed that there should be no problem for Indonesia to be absent from international competitions if the purpose is to improve the national football. According to the President, the improvement should be started by revamping the organisations.\n\nFIFA had decided to suspend the PSSI during the FIFA Executive Committee meeting on Saturday, 30 May 2015, in Zurich, Switzerland. The Executive decided to suspend the PSSI with immediate effect and until the PSSI would be able to comply with its obligations under arts. 13 and 17 of the FIFA Statutes. The decision meant Indonesian sides would no longer be able to take part in world football, and came less than two weeks before the country was due to begin qualifying matches for the 2018 World Cup. However, the national team would still be able to participate in the football tournament at the 2015 Southeast Asian Games, which was just getting under way.\n\nFinally, Indonesia State Minister for Youth and Sports Affairs lifted their suspension of the PSSI per 10 May 2016. And FIFA lifted their suspension at FIFA Congress, 12–13 May 2016 in Mexico.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1885672", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885672", "title": "Keystroke-level model", "text": "Keystroke-level model\n\nIn human–computer interaction, the keystroke-level model (KLM) predicts how long it will take an expert user to accomplish a routine task without errors using an interactive computer system. It was proposed by Stuart K. Card, Thomas P. Moran and Allen Newell in 1980 in the \"Communications of the ACM\" and published in their book \"The Psychology of Human-Computer Interaction\" in 1983, which is considered as a classic in the HCI field. The foundations were laid in 1974, when Card and Moran joined the Palo Alto Research Center (PARC) and created a group named Applied Information-Processing Psychology Project (AIP) with Newell as a consultant aiming to create an applied psychology of human-computer interaction. The keystroke-level model is still relevant today, which is shown by the recent research about mobile phones and touchscreens (see Adaptions).\n\nThe keystroke-level model consists of six operators: the first four are physical motor operators followed by one mental operator and one system response operator:\n\n\nThe following table shows an overview of the times for the mentioned operators as well as the times for suggested operators:\n\nThe KLM is based on the keystroke level, which belongs to the family of GOMS models. The KLM and the GOMS models have in common that they only predict behaviour of experts without errors, but in contrast the KLM needs a specified method to predict the time because it does not predict the method like GOMS. Therefore, the KLM has no goals and method selection rules, which in turn makes it easier to use. The KLM resembles the model K1 from the family of GOMS models the most because both are at the keystroke level and possess a generic M operator. The difference is that the M operator of the KLM is more aggregated and thus larger (1.35 seconds vs. 0.62 seconds), which makes its mental operator more similar to the CHOOSE operations of the model K2. All in all, the KLM represents the practical use of the GOMS keystroke level.\n\nThe KLM was designed to be a quick and easy to use system design tool, which means that no deep knowledge about psychology is required for its usage. Also, task times can be predicted (given the limitations) without having to build a prototype, recruit and test users, which saves time and money. See the example for a practical use of the KLM as a system design tool.\n\nThe keystroke-level model has several restrictions:\n\nAlso, one should keep in mind when assessing a computer system that other aspects of performance (errors, learning, functionality, recall, concentration, fatigue, and acceptability), types of users (novice, casual) and non-routine tasks have to be considered as well.\n\nFurthermore, tasks which take more than a few minutes take several hours to model and a source of errors is forgetting operations. This implies that the KLM is best suited for short tasks with few operators.\nIn addition, the KLM can not make a perfect prediction and has a root-mean-square error of 21%.\n\nThe following example slightly modified to be more compact from Kieras shows the practical use of the KLM by comparing two different ways to delete a file for an average skilled typist. Note that M is 1.35 seconds as stated in the KLM instead of 1.2 seconds used by Kieras. The difference between the two designs would remain the same either way for this example.\n\nThis shows that Design B is 1 second faster than Design A, although it contains more operations.\n\nThe six operators of the KLM can be reduced, but this decreases the accuracy of the model. If this low of an accuracy makes sense (e.g. “back-of-the-envelope” calculations) such a simplification can be sufficient.\n\nWhile the existing KLM applies to desktop applications, the model might not fulfill the range of mobile tasks, or as Dunlop and Cross declaimed KLM is no longer precise for mobile devices. There are various efforts to extend the KLM regarding the use for mobile phones or touch devices. One of the significant contributions to this field is done by Holleis, who retained existing operators while revisiting the timing specifications. Furthermore, he introduced new operators: Distraction (X), Gesture (G), Initial Act (I). \nWhile Li and Holleis both agree that the KLM model can be applied to predict task times on mobile devices, Li suggests further modifications to the model, by introducing a new concept called operator blocks. These are defined as \"the sequence of operators that can be used with high repeatability by analyst of the extended KLM.”. He also discards old operators and defines 5 new mental operators and 9 new physical operators, while 4 of the physical operators focus on pen-based operations. \nRice and Lartigue suggest numerous operators for touch devices together with updating existing operators naming the model TLM (Touch Level Model).\nThey retain the operators Keystroke (K/B), Homing (H), Mental (M) and Response Time (R(t)) and suggest new touch specific operators partly based on Holleis’ suggested operators:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1885691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885691", "title": "The Other (Doctor Who)", "text": "The Other (Doctor Who)\n\nThe Other is a fictional character in the British science fiction franchise \"Doctor Who\". A legendary figure in Time Lord history, the Other was only alluded to in the television series, but is featured several times in spin-off media based on the programme.\n\nThe Other was intended to be part of the backstory of the television series during the Seventh Doctor's tenure and part of script editor Andrew Cartmel's intention now known to fans as the \"Cartmel Masterplan\" to restore some mystery to the character of the Doctor. Cartmel felt that years of explanations about the Doctor's origins and the Time Lords had removed much of the mystery and strength of the character of the Doctor, and decided to make the Doctor \"once again more than a mere chump of a Time Lord\". Elements of this effort were liberally scattered through Seasons 25 and 26 of the series, and occasionally included hints about the Doctor's past; for example, in \"Silver Nemesis\", when Ace and the Doctor discuss the creation of validium, the Doctor mentions that it was created by Omega and Rassilon. Ace asks, \"And...?\" and the Doctor is silent. Cartmel has written that this was meant to indicate that the Doctor was \"more than a Time Lord\":\nIn the same story, Lady Peinforte's lines about the Doctor's \"secrets\" were also intended as a gesture towards this backstory.\n\nThe suspension of the \"Doctor Who\" television series in 1989 meant that the \"master plan\" never paid off on screen. Elements of it, however, were used as part of the background for the Virgin New Adventures line of original \"Doctor Who\" novels. Eventually, most of the details were revealed in the last Seventh Doctor New Adventure, \"Lungbarrow\" by Marc Platt. In the afterword, Platt discusses the Other, stating that he \"may not even be Gallifreyan himself\" and writing:\nA line in \"Lungbarrow\" says that the Other came to Rassilon \"on approval\", implying that Rassilon \"acquired\" him \"in some sort of pact with God knows what\". At the end of the novel, the Doctor learns that Leela is pregnant with Andred's child, and asks her to name it after him; Platt explained that this was meant to suggest a time loop in which the hybrid child goes on to become the Other, explaining the Doctor's half-human parentage in the 1996 TV film.\n\nThe Other first appears in flashbacks in Ben Aaronovitch's \"Remembrance of the Daleks\" novelisation. He co-founds Time Lord society with Rassilon and Omega following their overthrow of the cult of Pythia, which had previously dominated Gallifrey. The Other cautions the others not to use time travel to \"impose order\", and later witnesses Omega's apparent death as he conducts experiments on a star.\n\nOf the three, the Other's origins are the most obscure, with the circumstances of his birth and appearance being a mystery. Like Rassilon, various contradictory legends surround the Other, some hinting that he had powers surpassing that of Rassilon or Omega, and some even suggesting that he was not born on the Time Lords' home world of Gallifrey. Even his name is lost to time, which is why he is simply referred to as \"the Other\". A minor Gallifreyan festival known as Otherstide is celebrated yearly in his honour. This festival falls on the same days as the Doctor's name day.\n\nWhen the Pythia was overthrown, she laid a final curse on Gallifrey that made the population sterile. To ensure the continuation of their race, Rassilon created the Looms, machines that would \"weave\" new Gallifreyans out of extant genetic material.\n\nOmega apparently died creating the black hole which provided the raw power needed for time travel, turning the Gallifreyans into Lords of Time. (Some accounts suggest that Rassilon misled Omega into believing he would survive this mission.) Rassilon and the Other were left to pick up the pieces, with Rassilon harnessing the nucleus of the black hole to create the Eye of Harmony and becoming virtual dictator of Time Lord civilisation. As Rassilon's rule became more oppressive, the Other knew that his own days were numbered.\n\nThe Other first ensured that his granddaughter Susan (the last child to be naturally born on Gallifrey) was safe, sending her to the spaceport to get off the planet. Then, in a last gesture of defiance against Rassilon's rule, he committed suicide by throwing himself into the Looms, mixing his genetic material into the banks.\n\nEons passed, and the Looms became integrated into the great Houses of Gallifrey. Eventually, a new Cousin was born to the House of Lungbarrow, who would become known as the Doctor. Disenchanted with Time Lord society, the Doctor stole a TARDIS, intending to explore the universe. However, inside he discovered that the Hand of Omega, the stellar manipulator Omega had used to create the Eye of Harmony, had followed him on board, somehow recognising inside him one of its creators. Although time travel into Gallifrey's past was strictly forbidden, the Hand overrode the locks that prevented the TARDIS from doing so and took the Doctor back to the Old Time.\n\nThere, a year after the Other had vanished into the Looms, the Doctor found Susan wandering the streets of the city — she had never made it to the spaceport. Like the Hand, although the Doctor did not look anything like the Other, Susan recognised that there was a connection, and when she addressed him as \"Grandfather\", both of them knew that it was somehow right. The implication was that the Other had been genetically reincarnated as the Doctor, although how much of the Other is in the Doctor and how much he remembers of his past life, if at all, is unclear. Susan and the Doctor then left in the TARDIS to travel through time and space. These events are seemingly contradicted by \"The Name of the Doctor\", which portrays the First Doctor and Susan entering the TARDIS together.\n\nMore information about the Other is revealed or implied in the Virgin Missing Adventures novel \"Cold Fusion\", by Lance Parkin. In this novel, the Fifth Doctor encounters a Gallifreyan woman, whom he dubs Patience (though her real name is never said), who it is implied is the Other's wife. She appears again in Parkin's BBC novel \"The Infinity Doctors\", where she was once married to that novel's version of the Doctor, who may be separate from normal continuity. She is a naturally born Gallifreyan, who is apparently immortal, barring accidents, and has lived for over two million years. She was first married to Omega and then to the Other or the Doctor and they had 13 children. In flash back, the description of her husband matches one of the faces seen during the mindbending contest in \"The Brain of Morbius\", specifically the one represented by an image of Douglas Camfield. At some point, the Lord President turned against her family, as they were naturally born, rather than from a loom, and ordered the Chancellory Guard to kill them all. Somehow the First Doctor was able to help her escape in a prototype TARDIS. How this account fits with the information on the Other given above is deliberately kept vague and in some cases appears to contradict it. Lance Parkin has indicated that the reason for the contradictions is that he was working from a different version of the Cartmel Masterplan than the version used by Marc Platt when writing \"Lungbarrow\".\n\nA possible origin for the Other is provided by \"Human Nature\", a 1995 \"Virgin New Adventures\" novel by Paul Cornell. In the novel, the Doctor transforms himself into John Smith, a human with only fragmentary memories of his past life. Smith writes a children's story about an old man in Victorian England who invents a police box larger on the inside and capable of travel through time and space. Lonely, the man visits the planet Gallifrey, where he finds a primitive tribe. He tells the Gallifreyans about science and the arts, teaches them to travel time and space, and advises them on how to be as civilised and law-abiding as England. When they grow dull and officious, he invents a way for them to begin new lives upon death, and gives them second hearts in hopes of making them more joyful. When this fails, he steals a police box and flees back to Earth, deciding that being free is better than being in charge. Smith's story was plotted by Cornell's friend Steven Moffat; Cornell stated, \"He's always had some radical thoughts about \"Who\", and it was good to be able to give expression to some of them.\"\n\nAn alternative theory for The Other was provided in 2017 by Titan Comics in crossover event “The Lost Dimension”. In this story the Eleventh Doctor travels back to ancient Gallifrey by mistake where he meets Rassilon. The Doctor introduces himself as “the other one” and Rassilon consequently calls him “The Other”. The Doctor thus becomes one of the most important figures in Gallifreyan history when he is the first person to fly in a TARDIS.\n\n"}
{"id": "1885697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885697", "title": "The York Foundation", "text": "The York Foundation\n\nThe York Foundation was a professional wrestling heel stable in World Championship Wrestling between 1990 and 1992. It was led by tech-savvy businesswoman Alexandra York, and comprised former babyfaces who adopted informal wear and formalized their ring names upon joining.\n\nMiss Alexandra York entered WCW near the end of 1990 as the manager and financial analyst of Mike Rotunda. According to the storyline Rotunda had inherited a lot of money, turned heel and then adopted the name “Michael Wallstreet” (a gimmick patterned after Gordon Gekko from the film \"Wall Street\"). Miss York would use her laptop to analyze Wallstreet’s opponents and help him win matches. Wallstreet started off strong by defeating The Starblazer at Clash of the Champions XIII before engaging in a feud with Terry Taylor. Miss York claimed that her computer program predicted that Wallstreet could beat Taylor in less than nine minutes, so during their Starrcade 1990 match a nine-minute countdown clock was used. Wallstreet won the match within the time limit. In early 1991, Rotundo left WCW and signed with the World Wrestling Federation where he became a “ruthless tax collector” known as Irwin R. Schyster.\n\nWith no one to manage Miss York started to scout WCW, looking for her next “project”. At Clash of the Champions XIV Miss York found her man. During a match between Terry Taylor and Ricky Morton Miss York appeared at ringside, distracted Morton and allowed Taylor to win the match. Taylor’s turn did not come as any surprise as he was mistakenly introduced as “the Computerized Man of the 90s” before the match. Taylor joined the York Foundation and insisted on being known as Terrence Taylor from now on and started wearing a business suit. Miss York also added Mr. Hughes as a bodyguard.\n\nNext Miss York set her sights on Dustin Rhodes (later her real-life husband) wanting him to join her foundation. When Dustin Rhodes turned her down, Taylor attacked him, kicking off a long-running feud between Rhodes and the York Foundation. In April and May, she had Taylor team with Arn Anderson and Larry Zbyszko as potential recruits but they decided to form a tag team called the Enforcers instead of joining the York Foundation. She also gave \"Nature Boy\" Buddy Landel a few tryouts but did not sign him as he lost these matches.\n\nAt Clash of the Champions XV on June 12, 1991, the York Foundation Ricky Morton - now renamed Richard Morton - joined in an attack on Dustin Rhodes and also beat up his longtime Rock 'N Roll Express partner Robert Gibson just as he announced he was ready to return from a serious knee injury. In July, Richard Morton defeated Gibson at the Great American Bash 1991. Gibson left WCW shortly after allowing Morton to focus on the York Foundation’s feud with Dustin Rhodes & friends. At the Great American Bash, the Foundation lost the services of Mr. Hughes as he joined forces with Harley Race and Lex Luger, instead Miss York brought in Thomas Rich to be the third member of her foundation.\n\nOver the summer, the Foundation continued its feud with Dustin Rhodes, Tom Zenk and Bobby Eaton all of whom had turned down Miss York's offer of membership. The Foundation beat Dustin Rhodes, Tom Zenk and Big Josh for the WCW World Six-Man Tag Team Titles on October 8, 1991 and held the titles until they were abandoned in late November 1991. As fall turned to winter the members of the York Foundation were used more as “Enhancement Talent” to make wrestlers such as Van Hammer or Big Josh. The sole highlight was Richard Morton’s participation in the tournament to crown the first ever WCW Light Heavyweight Championship where he reached the finals before losing to Flyin’ Brian. The York Foundation’s final feud was with The Fabulous Freebirds and was cut short when it disbanded in January 1992.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1885698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885698", "title": "Kasu Brahmananda Reddy", "text": "Kasu Brahmananda Reddy\n\nKasu Brahmananda Reddy (28 July 1909 – 20 May 1994) was the Chief Minister of Andhra Pradesh, India, from 29 February 1964 to 30 September 1971. On 3 June 1977, he was elected president of the Indian National Congress.\n\nKasu Brahmananda Reddy was born in Tubadu in Guntur District, Andhra Pradesh. His early education took place in Guntur and he graduated from Madras Presidency College and also studied in Kerala. He practised law and was a very successful advocate.\n\nReddy is credited with creating the Industrial infrastructure in and around Hyderabad. Only Congress president to expel Indira Gandhi from Indian National Congress. During his long regime of seven years (longest for any Congress chief minister in the state of Andhra Pradesh), many major industries like BHEL, HMT, IDPL, Hindustan Cables and several defence establishments like MIDHANI, Bharath Dynamics were established. During his tenure as the Chief Minister, Jalagam Vengal Rao, the Home Minister was instrumental in suppressing the Naxal movement in the north coastal Andhra Pradesh.\n\nReddy also held key positions such as Telecommunications Minister, Home Minister of India (1974–1977) and Governor of Maharashtra (20 February 1988 to 18 January 1990). He was also only one of two elected All India Congress Committee Presidents, all others having been nominated.\n\nReddy spared no effort to keep AP united, even in the face of Telangana movement in 1969. It is said that over 9 months of the movement, about 370 youngsters and students were killed in police firings and that more than 70,000 people were arrested of which 7,000 were women and that people were lathi-charged 3,266 times, and about 20,000 people were injured in the lathi charge, and 1840 people had received bullet injuries and fractures, tear gas was supposedly used 1870 times. It is alleged that all of this was suppressed by the then Kasu Brahmananda Reddy government by using brute force.\n\nThe famous Chiran Palace was named after Kasu Brahmananda Reddy National Park in Jubilee Hills, Hyderabad, in his honor.\n\n"}
{"id": "1885701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885701", "title": "Don Haskins Center", "text": "Don Haskins Center\n\nThe Don Haskins Center, formerly known as the Special Events Center, is the home of UTEP Miners men's and women's basketball. The venue is located in the heart of El Paso, Texas. In addition to hosting sporting events, the Don Haskins Center is also used by many area schools, such as El Paso Community College, for graduation and commencement ceremonies. Due to its large seating capacity, the center is also the city's premier entertainment venue and has hosted big-name acts such as pop star Shakira's Tour of the Mongoose, Oral Fixation Tour and The Sun Comes Out World Tour, Britney Spears during her Circus Tour, comedian George Lopez and rock band KISS.\n\nBuilt in 1977, as the Special Events Center, the venue replaced Memorial Gym. The Special Events Center was renamed after UTEP's Hall of Fame coach Don Haskins (1930–2008) in 1998. Haskins, who is best known for starting five African-American players in the 1966 NCAA Championship game against Kentucky, was inducted into the National Collegiate Basketball Hall of Fame in 1997 and retired from the university in 1999. The arena was the site of a milestone win during the 1997–1998 season, as coach Haskins notched his 700th career victory against SMU. The arena was also the site of the 1984, 1985, and 1990 Western Athletic Conference men's basketball tournaments and the 2011 and 2014 Conference USA tournaments. It also hosted NCAA Men's Basketball tournament first- and second-round games in 1981. In September 2008 Don Haskins lay in state there for several days after dying of natural causes.\n\nThe Haskins Center features a Robbins Bio-Channel Star maple floor, installed in the summer of 2002, as well as two modern locker rooms, training facilities and basketball coaches' offices. The game-day environment for basketball was enhanced in recent years with the addition of four new scoreboards and two video replay boards to the arena. The arena now has a total of seven electronic scoreboards.\n\nWhile it had originally been built as an alternative to the Pan American Center in Las Cruces, New Mexico, which at the time was the larger of the two arenas, today the Haskins Center is the dominant concert venue in the area. The Pan American Center was renovated in 2006 and has since been used as an alternative venue due to similar concert capacity. It is also the regional stop for WWE when it visits the El Paso area.\n\nThe Miner men's basketball team has posted a 476–140 (.773) record in 34 years at the arena. UTEP won 25 straight home games from January 23, 1987 to December 16, 1989. The Miners have posted undefeated home records in three seasons: 1983–1984 (21–0), 1985–1986 (19–0) and 1988–1989 (18–0). They also won the first 10 conference games they played there after joining Conference USA in 2005. UTEP has defeated many top-10 ranked teams in the Don Haskins Center over the years, including #10 Arizona (1977), #5 Georgetown (1985), #5 Wyoming (1988) and #9 Utah (1993), among others.\n\nUTEP has attracted 5,592,257 fans in 34 seasons at the arena. The 11,892-seat arena (formerly 12,222 due to the late El Paso Sports legend Paul Strelzin) has been sold out for UTEP basketball games 112 times.\n\nShakira currently holds the record of having the most shows in the arena as a female artist, with 6 in total:\n\n\nDepeche Mode were scheduled to perform during their Touring the Angel Tour on May 2, 2006, with She Wants Revenge as their opening act, but the show was cancelled, due to scheduling issues.\n\nNew Kids on the Block were scheduled to perform during their on July 13, 2009, but the show was cancelled.\n\nThe Cure played a memorable gig on May 17, 2016 for about three hours with 5 encores and 5 songs they hadn't played for at least nine years including \"The Perfect Girl\" which hadn't been played since 1990.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1885708", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885708", "title": "Chris Spencer", "text": "Chris Spencer\n\nChristopher or Chris Spencer may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1885709", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885709", "title": "Lawrence Joel Veterans Memorial Coliseum", "text": "Lawrence Joel Veterans Memorial Coliseum\n\nThe Lawrence Joel Veterans Memorial Coliseum (also known as LJVM Coliseum, Joel Coliseum or simply The Joel) is a 14,407-seat multi-purpose arena, in Winston-Salem, North Carolina. Construction on the arena began on April 23, 1987 and it opened on August 28, 1989. It was named after Lawrence Joel, an Army medic from Winston-Salem who was awarded the Medal of Honor in 1967 for action in Vietnam on November 8, 1965. The memorial was designed by James Ford in New York, and includes the poem \"The Fallen\" engraved on an interior wall. It is home to the Wake Forest University Demon Deacons men's basketball and women's basketball teams, and is adjacent to the Dixie Classic Fairgrounds. The arena replaced the old Winston-Salem Memorial Coliseum, which was torn down for the LJVM Coliseum's construction.\n\nThe LJVM is home to the Wake Forest University men's and women's basketball teams, but other basketball games are held there, such as the Frank Spencer Holiday Classic basketball tournament, an annual event for high school basketball teams in the area. Since 2003, the LJVM has hosted the North Carolina High School Athletic Association (NCHSAA) Western Regional Basketball Tournaments. \nThe LJVM was the site of the Central Intercollegiate Athletic Association (CIAA) basketball tournament from 1994 to 1999. Also, the first and second rounds of the NCAA Men's Division I Basketball Championship have been held at the Coliseum four times (1993, 1997, 2000 and 2007). It also hosted the MEAC Men's Basketball Tournament from 2009 to 2012.\n\nIn a memorable NCAA second-round game at the Coliseum on March 15, 1997, North Carolina gave head coach Dean Smith victory number 877, surpassing Kentucky legend Adolph Rupp as the winningest college basketball coach in history.\n\nThe Harlem Globetrotters have played in the Coliseum as well.\n\nIt hosted the annual Fall Brawl pay-per-view event from 1996 to 1999 which also featured the WarGames matches from 1996-1998.\n\nThe arena has hosted concerts by many famous artists, spanning many different genres. The LJVM's amply large size makes it an ideal location for performers who wish to perform at smaller venues. The main arena can also be curtained off to create a theater-like setting.\n\nThe LJVM has played host to large-scale events such as the quarterfinals of the 2007 Davis Cup, but has also hosted racing, bull riding, circus, religious conferences, conventions and other events.\n\nThe movie \"The Longest Ride\" filmed a bull riding scene at the Coliseum in August 2014.\n\nBarney performed here in 1998 in his first National Tour: \"Barney's Big Surprise\". The show was filmed here and was later released as a VHS tape.\n\nIn addition to its main arena, the LJVM also has an Annex; it seats about 4,000, and is used primarily for hockey, but also for basketball, concerts, trade shows, and other events. The Winston-Salem State University Rams play basketball in the annex. There is also an Education Building available for additional floor space; both buildings are technically located on the Dixie Classic Fairgrounds. Wake Forest University BB&T Field along with its Deacon Tower and Gene Hooks Field at Wake Forest Baseball Park, a baseball stadium, is also considered part of the complex. Bowman Gray Stadium, though not in the vicinity, is technically part of the complex as well. All these buildings combined make up the Winston-Salem Entertainment-Sports Complex, which, with the exception of Bowman Gray Stadium is bordered by University Parkway, 27th Street, Deacon Boulevard, and Shorefair Drive. BB&T Ballpark has replaced Gene Hooks Field in downtown at the intersection of Business 40 and North Carolina Highway 150.\n\nThe Winston-Salem Foundation donated the land the coliseum now sits on to the city of Winston-Salem in 1969. The city of Winston-Salem completed construction of the coliseum in 1989 at a cost of $20.1 million. On May 20, 2013, the Winston-Salem city council approved the sale of the Joel Coliseum to Wake Forest University for $8 million. Wake Forest may consider buying the naming rights to the arena as well, which is currently owned by the city. Wake Forest University completed the purchase of Lawrence Joel Veterans Memorial Coliseum and the surrounding 33 acres on August 1, 2013. Wake Forest has made numerous upgrades to the coliseum, including LED court lighting, which improved energy costs, and a 1,400-foot center hung display monitor at mid-court.\n\n"}
{"id": "1885715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885715", "title": "Pete Maravich Assembly Center", "text": "Pete Maravich Assembly Center\n\nThe Pete Maravich Assembly Center is a 13,215-seat multi-purpose arena in Baton Rouge, Louisiana. The arena opened in 1972. It is home to the Louisiana State University Tigers and Lady Tigers basketball teams, the LSU Tigers women's gymnastics team and the LSU Tigers women's volleyball team. It was originally known as the LSU Assembly Center, but was renamed in honor of Pete Maravich, a Tiger basketball legend, shortly after his death in 1988. Louisiana Governor Buddy Roemer signed an act to rename the building in Maravich's honor (under Louisiana law, no LSU or state owned building may be named after a living person). Maravich never played in the arena as a collegian but played in it as a member of the Atlanta Hawks in a preseason game. But his exploits while at LSU led the University to build a larger home for the basketball team, which languished for decades in the shadow of the school's football program. The Maravich Center is known to locals as \"The PMAC\" or \"Pete's Palace\", or by its more nationally known nickname, \"The Deaf Dome\", coined by Dick Vitale. The Maravich Center's neighbor, Tiger Stadium is known as \"Death Valley\".\n\nThe slightly oval building is located directly to the north of Tiger Stadium, and its bright-white roof can be seen in many telecasts of that stadium. The arena concourse is divided into four quadrants: Pete Maravich Pass, The Walk of Champions, Heroes Hall and Midway of Memories. The quadrants highlight former LSU Tiger athletes, individual and team awards and memorabilia pertaining to the history of LSU basketball, gymnastics and volleyball. There are 11,230 permanent seats in the arena. 6,931 upper level seats, 4,299 lower level seats and 2,000 seats on retractable risers.\n\nThe \"L\" Club meeting room and Tiger Athletic Foundation offices are also located in the arena.\n\nPrior to building the Assembly Center, LSU played its games at John M. Parker Agricultural Coliseum (aka, the \"Cow Palace\"), located on the southeast corner of the campus.\n\nThe LSU Basketball Practice Facility is the practice facility for the LSU Tigers basketball and LSU Lady Tigers basketball teams. The facility is connected to the Pete Maravich Assembly Center through the Northwest portal. The facility features separate, full-size duplicate gymnasiums for the women's and men's basketball teams. They include a regulation NCAA court in length with two regulation high school courts in the opposition direction. The courts are exact replicas of the Maravich Center game court and have two portable goals and four retractable goals. The gymnasiums are equipped with a scoreboard, video filming balcony and scorer's table with video and data connection. The facility also houses team locker rooms, a team lounge, training rooms, a coach's locker room and coach's offices.\n\nThe building also includes a two-story lobby and staircase that ascends to the second level where a club room is used for pre-game and post-game events and is connected to the Pete Maravich Assembly Center concourse. The lobby includes team displays and graphics, trophy cases and memorabilia of LSU basketball. A bronze statue of LSU legend Shaquille O'Neal is located in front of the facility.\n\nThe LSU Tigers Volleyball Practice Facility is located in the arena. It includes a state-of-the-art locker room facility, film room, equipment room and training rooms off the arenas southwest corridor. The auxiliary gym located underneath the north section of the arena is a volleyball-only practice facility.\n\nThe Maravich Assembly Center has been a host site for both the men's and women's NCAA Basketball Tournament.\n\nIt played host to the NCAA Men's Basketball Tournament twice, in 1976 and 1986. In 1976, Indiana University defeated Alabama and Marquette in the Mideast Regional en route to an undefeated season and the national championship, and in 1986, LSU defeated Purdue and Memphis State (now Memphis) to begin an unlikely run to the Final Four as a #11 seed, the first of only three 11 seeds to reach the national semifinals (the others being George Mason in 2006 and VCU in 2011).\n\nThe arena has played host to the NCAA Women's Basketball First and Second Rounds in 1997, 2000, 2004, 2008, 2009, 2012, 2013 and 2014.\n\nThe Maravich Assembly Center has played host to NIT Men's Tournament games in 1982, 1983, 1987, 1989, 2002, and 2018.\n\nThe Maravich Center played host to the 1981 SEC Women's Basketball Tournament, the 1988 SEC Men's Basketball Tournament and two SEC Volleyball Tournaments.\n\nIn addition to sporting events, the arena hosts concerts, stand-up comedy shows, graduations, convocations, lectures and other special events. A stage can be lowered into place at the north end allowing 4,000 additional seats for theatrical productions. An additional 1,000 seats can be placed on the floor.\n\nThe arena has hosted concerts by Alice Cooper, Arlo Guthrie, Bad Company, Barry Manilow, Berlin, Billy Currington, Billy Joel, Bob Dylan, Bon Jovi, Boston, Boz Scaggs, Bruce Springsteen, Bush, Cat Stevens, Charley Pride, Chicago, Commodores, Crosby, Stills & Nash, Culture Club, David Bowie, Def Leppard, Diana Ross, Doug Kershaw, Eagles, Earth, Wind & Fire, Electric Light Orchestra, Elton John, Emerson Lake and Palmer, Elvis Presley, Fleetwood Mac, Foghat, Garth Brooks, George Harrison, George Strait, Grateful Dead, Guns N' Roses, Harry Chapin, Heart, Jackson Browne, Jimmy Buffett, Joan Baez, John Denver, John Mellencamp, Joni Mitchell, Journey, KC and the Sunshine Band, Kenny Rogers, KISS, Led Zeppelin, Liberace, Linda Ronstadt, Lionel Richie, Little Big Town, Marvin Gaye, Metallica, Neil Diamond, Neil Young, Olivia Newton-John, Oak Ridge Boys, Pat Benatar, Peter Frampton, Pink Floyd, R.E.M., REO Speedwagon, Statler Brothers, Rod Stewart, Skid Row, Sonny and Cher, Sting, Styx, The Doobie Brothers, The Go-Go's, The Jackson 5, The Moody Blues, The O'Jays, The Rolling Stones, The Who, The Wreckers, Tina Turner, U2, Van Halen, Willie Nelson, Yes and ZZ Top. In 1977, the rock band Lynyrd Skynyrd was involved in a plane crash on their way to play at the arena from their last show ever in Greenville, SC. Several band members including lead singer Ronnie Van Zant, died in the crash.\n\nThe arena has also hosted comedy shows by Eddie Murphy and George Carlin.\n\nAfter the NBA's New Orleans Hornets (now New Orleans Pelicans) were displaced by Hurricane Katrina in 2005, the arena was under consideration as a possible temporary home for the team. The Hornets played just one of six scheduled home games at the Maravich Assembly Center during the 2005-06 season.\n\nIn 1998, the arena played host to the Louisiana Bayou Beast of the Professional Indoor Football League. The Beast played 2 preseason games, 8 regular season games, and the PIFL Championship Game on August 15, 1998 in the Maravich Center.\n\nThe arena hosted the Louisiana High School Athletic Association boys basketball state semifinals and championship games from 1983 through 1996. It also hosted the Louisiana high school wrestling state tournament, which was not sanctioned at the time by the LHSAA, in 1972, '73 and '74.\n\nIn the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina, the arena was quickly turned into the largest triage center and acute care field hospital ever created in United States history. The 800-bed facility, which was under the direction of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) was staffed by ordinary citizen volunteers up to and including physicians. Some of the volunteers were themselves displaced from New Orleans due to the hurricane. Helicopters with injured evacuees landed on the infield of LSU's Bernie Moore Track Stadium, which is adjacent to the arena, while ambulances from around the region lined up with other patients that needed treatment. Those deemed healthy enough were either transferred to out-of-state facilities or to LSU's Carl Maddox Field House which had been transformed into a large emergency shelter.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1885716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885716", "title": "Theatrical Syndicate", "text": "Theatrical Syndicate\n\nThe Theatrical Syndicate was an organization that controlled most booking in top theatrical attractions in the United States, starting in 1896. The organization, composed of six men, controlled theatres and bookings.\n\nEarly in 1896, six men gathered for lunch at the Holland House in New York City. These men were Charles Frohman, Al Hayman, A. L. Erlanger, Marc Klaw, Samuel F. Nirdlinger, and Frederick Zimmerman. All were theatrical managers and/or booking agents with influence throughout the country. Frohman and Hayman owned theatres in New York and the surrounding area, Erlanger and Klaw were booking agents for almost all the major theatres in the South, and Nirdlinger and Zimmerman controlled theatres in the Ohio region. Frohman also owned a chain of theatres extending to the West Coast. At lunch, the men discussed the disarray in American theatre. These men had essentially formed the outline of the Theatrical Syndicate. For the Syndicate to succeed, they felt it had to form a monopoly. Within weeks of their lunch meeting, the men had organized all the theatres they owned or represented into a national chain, marking the beginning of the Theatrical Syndicate.\n\nIn the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, theatre companies in America thrived by touring. To take control of the situation, the Syndicate needed only to possess key theatres between the major touring cities. The Syndicate did not need control of theatres within the city. It needed only to control theatres on the routes approaching the city. The first city completely overtaken by the Syndicate was Philadelphia because of the influence of Nixon and Zimmerman.\n\nAt the start, the Syndicate owned 33 first-class theatres. Frohman, Klaw and Erlanger became the booking agents for the whole organization. Company managers no longer organized their tours by dealing with individual theatre managers. Instead they had to go through the Syndicate, which arranged their tour for them.\n\nThe Syndicate was praised in certain circles. Daniel Frohman, the brother of Charles Frohman, gives an account of the creation of the Syndicate. He writes that after discussing the growing chaos in the business of theatre, \"They decided that its only economic hope was in a centralization of booking interests, and they acted immediately on this decision.\" Those who praised the Syndicate believed that they had saved theatre by standardizing bookings. In the time prior to the formation of the Syndicate, routing of road-based companies was described as chaotic. Smaller travelling companies found themselves in debt because of stiff competition. Klaw, who acted as spokesman for the Syndicate, was quoted as saying, \"The Theatrical Syndicate has brought order out of chaos, legitimate profit out of ruinous rivalry.\"\n\nCriticism and opposition to the Syndicate came from managers, agents, and actors alike. At first, it was the managers that attempted to put a stop to the Syndicate, but they failed almost as soon as they began. A more serious threat to the Syndicate came in the form of rebellion from actors. The most prominent actors to take a stand were Nat Goodwin, Francis Wilson, and Richard Mansfield. Others who took a stand against the Syndicate were James A. Herne, James O'Neill. One actress, Minnie Maddern Fiske, became very well known for her opposition of the Syndicate. She became famous for her roles in plays by Ibsen, Shaw, and Wilde. The voices of the actors were much louder than any previous opposition. However, the fight was a very short one as Nat Goodwin, the original leader of the rebellion, was \"captured\" by the Syndicate. The others agreed to the Syndicate's terms very soon after.\n\nThe only real threat to the Syndicate came in the form of the Shubert brothers, Sam, Lee, and J.J. In the building stages of their empire, Sam Shubert was seen as the \"leader.\" At the age of twenty one, Sam controlled theatres in Utica, Rochester, Syracuse, New York City, and Troy. In the next five years, he acquired many more, all over the country. At this point, his holdings were only surpassed by Syndicate itself. However, Sam died in a railroad accident in 1905. After his death, his brothers formed a very brief working agreement with the Syndicate. After three years of solidifying their holdings, the Shuberts were strong enough to go toe to toe with the Syndicate. At first, the Shuberts operated in a similar manner to the Syndicate. They dealt with theatrical managers and were able to book a year's tour for the manager, but any length of time after that became unprofitable. The Shubert brothers then changed tactics. They abandoned the approach of buying theatres. Instead, they focused on collecting actors. During the 1908-09 season, the Syndicate did not have enough actors or plays to fill all their theatres. The Shubert brothers took advantage of this by following the Syndicate to certain cities and performing similar works in the same city, but of a better quality.\n\nEarly in 1910, several prominent actors and playwrights defected from the Syndicate to the Shuberts. The fight of the Shubert brothers gave smaller independent theatres motivation to take a stand against the Syndicate, and by April, the New England area had completely declared independence from the Syndicate. In May of that year, 1,200 small town theatre owners joined to form the National Theatre Owners Association. This act helped to end the Syndicate's hold on American theatre.\n\n"}
{"id": "1885719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885719", "title": "Reynolds Coliseum", "text": "Reynolds Coliseum\n\nWilliam Neal Reynolds Coliseum is a multi-purpose arena located in Raleigh, North Carolina, on the campus of North Carolina State University. The arena was built to host a variety of events, including agricultural expositions and NC State basketball games. It is now home to all services of ROTC and several Wolfpack teams, including women's basketball, women's volleyball, women's gymnastics, and men's wrestling. The university named the court in Reynolds \"Kay Yow Court\" on February 16, 2007 with the assistance of a substantial donation from the Wolfpack Club. That same night, the Wolfpack women upset #2 North Carolina, just two weeks after the men upset #3 North Carolina at the PNC Arena.\n\nNC State alumnus David Clark originally petitioned for the construction of the arena in 1940 after rain had ruined a North Carolina Farmers' Week meeting held in an outdoor facility. The North Carolina General Assembly approved plans for the coliseum. A steel shortage threatened to delay the construction of the coliseum. However, because the proposed coliseum was also to be used as an armory, the \"steel for the structure received a defense priority.\" Construction began in 1942. The foundation work and structural steel support system was completed by 1943 but construction was stopped due to US involvement in World War II. After the war the university was preoccupied with the building of housing and classroom facilities and the unfinished coliseum was left untouched until construction resumed in 1948. The arena was completed the following year and named in honor of William Neal Reynolds (1863–1951) of Winston-Salem.\n\nThe arena was originally intended to seat 10,000 people, but while the building was still under construction, newly hired head basketball coach Everett Case urged the administration to add an additional 2,400 seats, bringing capacity to 12,400. This was accomplished by expanding the structure at each end. It was the largest arena in the Southeast for many years.\n\nThe first men's basketball game was played on December 2, 1949, against Washington & Lee University. NC State defeated Washington and Lee, 67-47. Not all the seats had been installed at that time and many fans had to sit on the \"cement tiers.\" The first women's basketball game was played on December 7, 1974. Men's basketball moved to the Raleigh Entertainment and Sports Arena in 1999. The Wolfpack men have played a December regular-season \"heritage\" game at Reynolds Coliseum in recent years, and the arena hosted 2019 NIT first and second-round games against Hofstra and Harvard on March 19 and March 24.\n\nReynolds was the original site of the ACC men's basketball tournament from 1954 to 1966, the Dixie Classic tournament from 1949 to 1960, and the Southern Conference men's basketball tournament (1951–1953). It has hosted the NCAA men's basketball tournament as a Regional site eight times, and as a subregional (first and second-round games) four times. It has also hosted the women's basketball tournament eleven times, only one of which was a regional site. The ACC Women's Basketball Tournament was held there twice, in 1979 and 1982. March 1982, in fact, was a very busy month for the arena: it hosted the ACC women's tournament, NCAA men's subregional, and NCAA women's regional all in succession.\n\nIt was considered to be one of the toughest places to play in the Atlantic Coast Conference. When ESPN asked contributors who played college basketball to identify the toughest arena they ever played in, former Duke center Jay Bilas and former North Carolina guard Hubert Davis chose Reynolds.\n\nJay Bilas: \"To me, the toughest places to play had more to do with the quality of the opposing team than anything else, but Reynolds Coliseum at NC State was the toughest place I played while in college. Reynolds was configured much the same way as Cameron Indoor Stadium, but the end zones were much deeper and the sides were right on top of you. Reynolds was loud, edgy and intense. The Wolfpack under Jim Valvano were a tough out and the games were always fistfights, but the thing I remember most is coming back to a huddle and seeing lips move, but not being able to hear what was said. It was so hot and loud that your head would spin. Of course, having to guard guys like Thurl Bailey, Lorenzo Charles, Cozell McQueen and Chris Washburn probably had something to do with my head spinning.\"\n\nHubert Davis: \"The toughest place I ever played was Reynolds Coliseum, former home of the NC State Wolfpack. Cameron Indoor Stadium and Cole Field House don't even come close. I remember the long walk from the locker room to the floor. You had to enter under the bleachers and then had to sprint to the floor so that the fans wouldn't throw soda on us. The end zone seating went back as far as I've ever seen – the sea of red just never seemed to end. In the four years I played there as a Tar Heel, I never scored on the opposite basket away from our bench in the first half. I eventually calmed down, but was always flustered in those first 20 minutes. It was that intimidating.\"\n\nIn May 2005, the arena was damaged by a small fire. Damage was minimal, and crews quickly repaired the structure.\n\nRenovations were completed in 2005 that added new lighting, a new sound system, and new separate floors for basketball and volleyball. The new sound system proved to be inadequate, and was reworked in 2008. Because of the unusually long floor area, the volleyball court was able to fit in the north end of the coliseum perpendicular to the basketball court. The basketball area of the coliseum was curtained off or blocked off with temporary bleachers during volleyball matches. During basketball games temporary bleachers were rolled out over the volleyball floor, as well as over the open area on the south end of the court.\n\nThe arena was closed in March 2015 for extensive remodeling, which cost an estimated $35 million. The project moved the competition floor to the south end of the arena while lowering the seating capacity to 5,500 (it can be a bit higher for festival events). The north end of the building features a new Walk of Fame and History, including a permanent home for the NC State Athletic Hall of Fame, as well as offices for women's basketball and volleyball. Restrooms, concessions and hospitality areas were renovated and concourses were widened. A new video control room for all sports was added. And for the first time, the entire arena is air-conditioned.\n\nNC State's volleyball team was the first to play at home in the newly renovated Reynolds on September 9, 2016, defeating Delaware 3-0.\n\nThe building's arena floor measures . Originally, it seated 12,400 for basketball and 14,000 for concerts. Besides the building's long dimensions, another recognizable feature of the building is the floor-level bleacher seating, which is noticeably separate from the arena's main seating sections, a feature copied in the building of the PNC Arena. The building's exterior dimensions are .\n\nC. A. Dillon was the Public Address Announcer for the men's basketball games (including games of the Southern Conference, ACC, Dixie Classic and NCAA basketball tournaments) during the entire 50-year run of men's basketball in the arena. Bob Ferrone started as the PA Announcer for women’s basketball in 1975, the same year Kay Yow began her award-winning 34-year career as coach of the Wolfpack Women. He continued, assisted by his wife Jan, for 27 years rarely missing a game at Reynolds Coliseum.\n\nCurrently, women's basketball is announced by Ed Funkhouser. For eleven years, volleyball was announced by Vance Elderkin.\n\nFor many years, the arena housed an organ that was played before and after games and at halftimes. During the years in which Norm Sloan was the Wolfpack's head coach, his wife Joan sang the National Anthem before tip-offs.\n\nThe arena hosted games for the Carolina Cougars of the American Basketball Association during some but not all of their time in North Carolina from 1969 through 1974.\n\nThe arena also hosts annual N.C. State homecoming events, particularly concerts, featuring artists such as Def Leppard, Van Halen, Lonestar, Chris Daughtry, Ludacris & Crossfade, and hip hop artist T.I., among others. It also played host to many Raleigh area high school graduation ceremonies, though most now take place at the Raleigh Convention Center.\n\nHistorically, Reynolds served as the host for many campus concerts and special events. Elton John, The Rolling Stones, Louis Armstrong, Loverboy, Logan Paul, The Kingston Trio and Huey Lewis & The News have all performed in Reynolds. Additionally, former presidents Ronald Reagan, Bill Clinton, and Barack Obama have addressed students, faculty, and campus visitors in the coliseum.\n\nOn February 24, 2015, Phish released a live recording of their 12/16/99 concert from Reynolds Coliseum on LivePhish.com.\n\nOn March 10, 2018, Reynolds Coliseum hosted the NCHSAA 3A Men’s Basketball Championship. The game saw the Cox Mill Chargers men’s basketball team take home their second straight State Championship.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1885721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885721", "title": "Leonard Sainer", "text": "Leonard Sainer\n\nLeonard Sainer (b.12 October 1909 - d.30 September 1991) enjoyed two very successful careers, as a solicitor and a retailer.\n\nHe attended the Central Foundation Boys' School. After education at University College London, he became a solicitor in 1933.\n\nHe was a founding partner of the firm of Titmuss Sainer and Webb in 1938. One of his previous clients, Charles Clore, had been so impressed by him that he transferred his legal work to the new firm. Sainer worked closely with Clore in developing his retail activities, eventually helping him to set up Sears plc.\n\nFollowing the death of Titmuss, Sainer became senior partner and remained so until 1978, when he became a consultant. During this time, Titmuss Sainer and Webb had become one of the largest solicitor's firms in Great Britain, and was regarded as the best firm for retail property transactions. In 1978, Sainer succeeded Clore as Chairman of Sears plc. He retired in 1985, becoming its life president.\n\nFrom 1964 to 1989, he was a trustee of the Clore Foundation.\n\nThe Leonard Sainer Trust was established by his will. It sponsors several charitable activities, such as the Leonard Sainer Centre in Ilford for children with special needs.\n"}
{"id": "1885727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885727", "title": "Hec Edmundson Pavilion", "text": "Hec Edmundson Pavilion\n\nAlaska Airlines Arena at Hec Edmundson Pavilion (formerly and still commonly referred to as Hec Edmundson Pavilion or simply Hec Ed) is an indoor arena on the campus of the University of Washington in Seattle, Washington. It serves as home to several of the university's sports teams, known as the Washington Huskies of the Pac-12 Conference. It also served as a temporary home for the WNBA's Seattle Storm in 2019.\n\nOriginally opened in late 1927, the brick venue is home to the UW men's and women's basketball programs, as well as the women's volleyball and gymnastics teams. The current seating capacity of Hec Ed is 10,000 for basketball.\n\nThe pavilion is located immediately north of Husky Stadium, bounded on the west by Montlake Boulevard. Originally the University of Washington Pavilion, the building was constructed in nine months in 1927 for $600,000 and opened on After 20 years, it was renamed the Hec Edmundson Pavilion on honoring the university's longtime track and basketball coach. An Olympian in 1912 in the 400 and 800 meters, Edmundson had stepped down the previous spring after 27 seasons as head basketball coach and continued as head track coach through the 1954 season.\n\nThe building was designed as a multi-purpose field house, handling six or seven men's sports, including use as an indoor football field and track. Seating and flooring were intentionally mobile. The floor was originally dirt, and the football team practiced in the venue during bad weather. The basketball floor was laid over a bed of 2x4s, resulting in a variety of bounce characteristics. Hec Ed originally had glass skylights in its ceiling. During the state high school basketball tournament in 1938, one of these fell during a windstorm and injured two adults, resulting in their permanent removal. The pavilion was used as a venue for the 1990 Goodwill Games and the flooring was renovated for the event.\n\nAfter more than 71 years, the multi-purpose arena underwent a major renovation in March 1999, following the final home games of the 1998–99 basketball season. The project took 19 months to complete and cost $40 million. The expansive interior of the building was reconfigured by LMN Architects to make the arena environment more intimate for fans and players, and to improve the usage of the building's overall space.\n\nThe east end of the building was sectioned off into a practice gymnasium and the main basketball court was moved 50 feet (15 m) west, enclosed by a tighter bowl of seats. The seating capacity was increased from 7,900 to 10,000 while using significantly less of the building. Half of the seats (5,000) are the chair type, with the other half bleachers, of which 60% have backs. The seats were supplied by Saxton Bradley, Inc., a local distribution company for educational, technology, and casework solutions.\n\nAnother major improvement was the removal of the 20 view-obscuring support pillars in the upper level, replaced by two massive non-obscuring \"super trusses,\" above and behind the sidelines. Both are in length and painted yellow-gold, as are the supporting tri-leg columns in the arena's four corners, proudly exhibited in the concourses.\n\nAdditionally, the six large arched windows at the west end of the building were uncovered. Painted over for years, they were refitted with filtered glass to allow them to remain uncovered during games. The acoustical ceiling, installed in 1967 for use as a concert and music hall, was removed to expose the steel rafters. The rafters and the black ceiling above them were painted in an off-white buff tone.\n\nNew locker rooms, athletic offices, meeting rooms, training rooms, and a Hall of Fame section were also part of the project. The running track was removed, transferred to the new Dempsey indoor practice facility, which opened the following autumn.\n\nDuring the renovation, the Husky basketball teams were displaced for one season (1999–2000), and played their home games away at Seattle Center; the men at KeyArena and the women at Mercer Arena.\n\nIn 2011, the university announced plans for a new basketball training facility. The project includes a pre-design study for a $50 million basketball training facility for the men's and Women's basketball programs to be located in the vicinity of the Alaska Airlines Arena. The scope of work may include relocation and replacement of existing ICA facilities related to the new project. The pre-design study will include programming, alternatives, design concepts, cost estimates, and other related reports. The study may include an option to replace or build a new arena for the basketball programs. Nothing has come of these plans since this annoucment.\n\nFollowing the volleyball team's final four season of 2013, a Taraflex surface was installed for volleyball in the summer of 2014. Used for major international competitions, such as the Olympics and world championships, it is composed of vinyl and foam with a thickness of . Washington was the ninth Division I school to install Taraflex and the first in the Pac-12 Conference.\n\nThe arena was the site of a few Seattle SuperSonics games. The NBA team played six regular season games there during the 1970-71 season. In 1980, the Sonics played two games during the Western Conference finals against the Los Angeles Lakers and lost both. They played their two home games of the first round of the 1987 playoffs against the Dallas Mavericks and won both, including the series clincher. The Sonics had to play these playoff series at Hec Edmundson because both the Seattle Center Coliseum and the Kingdome were booked for other events.\n\nThe arena has hosted the city's WNBA team, the Seattle Storm, since the 2019 season. The Storm, which normally play at Seattle Center Arena, are being displaced during that venue's renovation into a home for the Seattle NHL team. The Storm split the 2019 WNBA season, playing several games at Angel of the Winds Arena. The team originally olanned to play the first ten games of its 2020 home schedule at Hec Ed, between May 15 and July 5, 2020, moving to Angel of the Winds Arena for the second half of the season, beginning on August 16. . The WNBA's original schedule included a month-long break in July and August 2020 to allow players to participate in the 2020 Summer Olympics. The Tokyo games have however been postponed until 2021 due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The WNBA has also postponed the start of its own 2020 schedule.\n\nSince the arena lacks air conditioning, and the WNBA requires that all games be played in air-conditioned venues, portable air conditioning units have been used during Storm games.\n\nAt the reopening in November 2000, the title \"Bank of America Arena\" was added, following a payment of $9.1 million by Bank of America for the 10-year naming rights. (When the naming rights were originally awarded in June 1998, it was to be called \"Seafirst Arena.\" Although Seafirst was acquired in 1983 by B of A, the name continued to be used until 1999, when Bank of America retired the brand.) The sponsorship of the arena expired after ten years in 2010 and was without an immediate successor. After several unsponsored months, the university announced its approval of Seattle-based Alaska Airlines as the new sponsor of Hec Ed on January 20, 2011.\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "1885730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885730", "title": "Sterba's corydoras", "text": "Sterba's corydoras\n\nSterba's corydoras (\"Corydoras sterbai\") is a member of the South American \"Corydoras\" genus of freshwater aquarium catfish and one of the most popular species of \"Corydoras\" due to its attractive markings. The fish is native to the Guaporé River region between Bolivia and Brazil.\n\nSterba's cory is distinguishable from other \"Corydoras\" species as it has white spots on a black background on its head. It is occasionally confused with \"Corydoras haraldschultzi\"; the difference is that the latter has a pattern of black dots on a white background on the head. \"C. sterbai\" has recently become available in an albino form and a black form.\n\nLike many \"Corydoras\" species, Sterba's corydoras is a shoaling catfish, and thus should ideally be kept in groups of 5 or more. In the wild it can be found in Brazil and thus, wild caught fish prefer soft, acidic water. However, Sterba's corydoras is a hardy fish and tank bred specimens have adapted to a wider range of water conditions. However, like almost all fish it will not tolerate high levels of nitrates.\n\nUnlike some other catfish they are not good algae eaters, but are good at \"cleaning up\" leftover food and detritus from the substrate.\n\n\"Corydoras sterbai\" are relatively small for catfish, growing to a maximum size of only .\n\nIn captivity \"Corydoras sterbai\" readily accepts a wide variety of prepared and frozen foods. Flake food is a good staple diet (which will only be consumed once it has fallen to the bottom) as are sinking pellets or wafers. They relish live and frozen foods such as bloodworm, daphnia and mosquito larvae, but ideally should only be fed such foods once a week due to the high amount of protein in them.\n\nIt is often problematic to feed \"Corydoras\" in aquaria with fast feeding mid-water fish such as tetras as flake and sinking pellets are consumed by such fish before they have hit the bottom and sometimes, even while lying on the substrate. However, this problem can be overcome by placing pellets and flake on the aquarium substrate in caves or under bogwood, or other such areas which are not regularly frequented by mid-water fish.\nThe compatibility of \"C. sterbai\" is one of their main selling points as with all other \"Corydoras\" species as they are very peaceful catfish and can be kept with other peaceful fish. They should not be kept with overly aggressive bottom dwellers, particularly if there is competition over substrate space as there would be in small tanks or tanks with a large amount of \"furniture\". Ideal companions would be similar sized tetras or particularly, dwarf cichlids.\n\nIdeally \"Corydoras sterbai\" should be housed with a fine substrate such as sand or gravel in order to avoid doing damage to their delicate barbels. However, large gravel will suffice as long as it is not sharp edged. Their only other requirement is that shade be provided for them, by means of overhanging rock, large leaved plants, arching bogwood or caves.\n\nBreeding is not too difficult. A tank with dimensions 18″ x 12″ x 12″ (10 US Gallon) is recommended. The breeding ratio that should be kept is 2 males per female. Good diet together with repeated water changes and drops of temperature are usually sufficient. However, raising the fry is not easy due to its high sensitivity.\n\nOccasionally problems can arise while transporting these fish as they are capable of secreting a chemical toxin when stressed or overcrowded. For this reason they are never shipped with other fish.\n\nThe species name of this \"Corydoras\" is in honour of Professor Dr. Günther Sterba, professor emeritus of zoology of Leipzig University, member of the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences. Professor Sterba is a professional ichthyologist who nevertheless produced several very popular books regarded as virtual bibles for fishkeepers over the 1970s and 1980s, translated into English under the titles \"Freshwater Fishes of the World\", \"Aquarium Care\" and (with Dick Mills) \"The Aquarists' Encyclopedia\", despite his degree of isolation at that time by virtue of living in the then German Democratic Republic.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1885740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885740", "title": "Buttress root", "text": "Buttress root\n\nButtress roots are large, wide roots on all sides of a shallowly rooted tree. Typically, they are found in nutrient-poor tropical forest soils that may not be very deep. They prevent the tree from falling over (hence the name buttress) while also gathering more nutrients. Buttresses are tension elements, being larger on the side away from the stress of asymmetrical canopies. The roots may interwind with buttress roots from other trees and create an intricate mesh, which may help support trees surrounding it. They can grow up to tall and spread for 30 metres above the soil then for another 30 metres below. When the roots spread horizontally, they are able to cover a wider area for collecting nutrients. They stay near the upper soil layer because all the main nutrients are found there.\n\n"}
{"id": "1885742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885742", "title": "Second System", "text": "Second System\n\nSecond System can refer to the following:\n"}
{"id": "1885756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885756", "title": "Anna Jagiellon", "text": "Anna Jagiellon\n\nAnna Jagiellon (, ; 18 October 1523 – 12 November 1596) was Queen of Poland and Grand Duchess of Lithuania from 1575 to 1586. She was a daughter of Polish King Sigismund I the Old and his Italian wife Bona Sforza. Despite multiple proposals, she remained unmarried until the age of 52. After the death of King Sigismund II Augustus, her brother and the last male member of the Jagiellonian dynasty, Anna's hand was sought by pretenders to the Polish throne to maintain the dynastic tradition.\n\nAnna was elected, along with her then-fiancé Stephen Báthory, as co-ruler in the 1576 royal election of the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth. Their marriage was a formal arrangement and distant. Báthory was preoccupied with the Livonian War, while Anna spent her time in Warsaw on local administrative matters and several construction works. After Báthory's death in December 1586, she had an opportunity to claim the throne for herself (she was co-ruler and not merely a consort), but did not pursue it. Instead, she promoted her nephew Sigismund III Vasa, establishing the House of Vasa on the Polish throne for the next eighty years (1587–1668).\n\nAnna Jagiellon was born on 18 October 1523 to the Polish king and queen, Sigismund I the Old and Bona Sforza. She spent most of her childhood in Kraków. Twice, from June 1533 to November 1536 and from April 1540 to June 1542, Anna and two of her sisters were left alone in Kraków while the rest of the family was in Lithuania. That meant that the three sisters grew closer (they separated only in 1556 when Sophia Jagiellon married Henry V, Duke of Brunswick-Lüneburg), but grew more distant from their elder brother, Sigismund II Augustus. Her early life was rather mundane. She embroidered and sewed, played chess and dice, was involved in works of charity and fulfilled her obligations as a princess. She also received an education – she was fluent in Italian and knew Latin – but her teachers are unknown.\n\nThe issue of marriage of the three Jagiellon sisters was neglected by both their parents. Only after the death of Sigismund in 1548, the first serious candidate to husband emerged – Albert Alcibiades, Margrave of Brandenburg-Kulmbach, but he was a Hohenzollern and a Protestant, had debts and a temper. In summer 1548, after a conflict with King Sigismund II Augustus over his secret marriage with Barbara Radziwiłł, Queen Bona and her three unmarried daughters moved to Mazovia, mainly Warsaw and Ujazdów Castle. Sigismund II Augustus did not attend to the issue of his sisters' marriages either. In 1550, Bona attempted to negotiate marriage with Charles Victor or Philip, sons of Henry V, Duke of Brunswick-Lüneburg, or Ernest of Bavaria. After a family meeting in May 1552 in Płock, Sigismund considered marrying his sisters to King Gustav I of Sweden, Dukes John Frederick II and Johann Wilhelm of Saxony, and Duke John Albert I of Mecklenburg, but he lacked resolve and consistency.\nFinally in January 1556, Queen Bona managed to arrange a marriage for Sophia. A month later, Bona Sforza departed to her native Italy leaving her two unmarried daughters alone in Warsaw. After about a year, Sigismund II Augustus brought his sisters to Vilnius where they became close to his third wife, Catherine of Austria. Even though Anna was already in her mid-thirties, Sigismund investigated marriage proposals. Widowed Ferdinand I, Holy Roman Emperor, did not want to remarry; his unmarried son Charles II (born 1540) was too young; Tsar Ivan the Terrible was deemed not beneficial for Poland–Lithuania; John Frederick, Duke of Pomerania, did not want an alliance with Poland as it would have drawn the Duchy of Pomerania into the Livonian War.\n\nKing Eric XIV of Sweden was personally more interested in pursuing marriage with Queen Elizabeth I of England, but he sought an alliance with Poland and suggested his half-brother John, Duke of Finland. John agreed, but asked for Anna's younger sister Catherine. It was against custom for a younger sister to marry first, therefore their wedding was postponed. Three more grooms were proposed for Anna: Danish prince Magnus was supposed to become a Lutheran bishop which would be unacceptable marriage for the Catholic Poles; the last Master of the Livonian Order Gotthard Kettler was not of royal blood and his control of Livonia was tenuous; John proposed his younger brother Magnus, Duke of Östergötland, and Sigismund II Augustus agreed to the double Polish–Swedish alliance. However, at the last minute, only John arrived to the wedding in Vilnius. The court demanded that John married Anna, but John insisted on Catherine. Sigismund II Augustus, who needed Swedish troops and money in the Livonian War, relented if Anna did not protest. Though it must have been humiliating for Anna, she agreed and Catherine married John on 4 October 1562.\n\nAnna moved to the Royal Castle in Warsaw as Vilnius was not safe due to the Livonian War and lived there for about ten years. There she lived alone with a court of about 70 people; she spent her time praying, embroidering or sewing (many of her works survived to this day), and corresponding with her sisters. Her brother visited her annually when he attended sessions of the general sejm in Warsaw. Even though Anna was already in her forties, marriage proposals continued to come in. In 1564, Reichard, Count Palatine of Simmern-Sponheim, proposed but perhaps was deterred by her relatively small dowry of 32,000 Polish red złoty. In 1568, Sophia Jagiellon proposed Eberhard, eldest son of Christoph, Duke of Württemberg, but he died the same year. In 1569, a project emerged to marry Anna to Barnim X, Duke of Pomerania. Pomerania demanded that Anna would bring eight border territories as her dowry, which was unacceptable to Poland. In 1572, Sophia proposed Albert Frederick, Duke of Prussia, but Sigismund II Augustus refused.\n\nIn July 1572, her brother Sigismund II Augustus died, leaving the throne to the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth vacant. His death changed her status from a socially neglected spinster to heiress of the Jagiellon dynasty. Sigismund left all the wealth of the Jagiellon dynasty to his three sisters. However, Polish nobles did not allow a private person to inherit royal possessions. Thus, Anna received only a small portion of her inheritance; it still made her a very rich woman. In general, her life became dictated by Polish nobles, who sought to keep her out of the political arena. She was ordered to leave Warsaw and traveled to Piaseczno, Płock, Łomża.\n\nJean de Monluc, Bishop of Valence, offered the French prince Henry de Valois to the electors of the Commonwealth as the next king. Among other things, Montluc promised the electors that Henry would marry Anna to maintain the dynastic tradition. It seems that, despite nobility's efforts to keep her out of politics, Anna learned of Henry's offer in spring 1573 and became his strong supporter. She was flattered that Henry \"cared for her and not for the Kingdom\". With her support, Henry was elected as King of Poland on 11 May 1573 and officially crowned on 21 February 1574. Due to an oversight (whether intentional or unintentional), Henrician Articles (Henry's pre-election treaty) did not include the promise to marry Anna and so he delayed. When it became apparent that Henry would not marry her, Anna was humiliated. In June 1574, Henry left Poland to assume his new duties as King of France and by May 1575 the Parliament of the Commonwealth had removed him as their monarch.\n\nDuring the second interregnum, Anna assumed the unprecedented but politically important title of infanta, mirroring the Spanish custom and highlighting her dynastic status. Poland did not recognize the status of crown prince since, technically, the monarchy was not hereditary but elective. She referred to herself as \"Anna, by the Grace of God, Infanta of the Kingdom of Poland\" (Latin: \"Anna Dei Gratia Infans Regni Poloniae\"). She wanted to marry and become Queen of Poland, but deceived by the French, she was a lot more careful and did not voice her support publicly. She was skeptical of marriage proposals by Archduke Ernest of Austria, Alfonso II d'Este, Duke of Ferrara, or Frederick IV of Liegnitz. In December 1575, Jan Zamoyski proposed to elect Anna. However, a woman could not rule and needed to marry and so Stephen Báthory, Voivode of Transylvania, was proposed as her husband. On 15 December 1575, in Wola near Warsaw, Anna and Stephen Báthory were elected as co-rulers of the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth. The Lithuanian delegation did not participate in the election and did not recognize its results. Only on 29 June 1576, already after the coronation ceremony, Lithuanian nobility agreed to recognize Anna and Báthory.\n\nAnna supported Báthory with money for weapons, but refused to get married \"per procura\". On 28 February 1576, Anna entered Kraków as the officially elected queen; Báthory joined her on 23 April. On 1 May they were married and crowned at Wawel Cathedral. Anna was forced to surrender inheritance from her brother; in return she received some of his properties for her lifetime, Mazovian properties that once belonged to her mother, treasury kept at Tykocin, and a one-time payment of 60,000 gold coins. She also received income from Wieliczka Salt Mine and interest on her mother's loan to Philip II of Spain (the loan was never fully repaid and is known as Neapolitan sums). She was supposed to share that interest with her sister Catherine Jagiellon, but apparently never did.\nThe marriage was consummated and there were rumors that Anna had not had her menopause and thus could still conceive, but it was a formal affair. The couple were distant and would see each other only a few weeks a year when Báthory, generally preoccupied with the Livonian War, attended general sejm in Warsaw. It visibly upset Anna who sought a closer personal relationship and greater political influence. It was also Báthory's loss as he failed to gain a valuable political ally. Anna spent most of her time in Warsaw and Ujazdów Castle. There were rumors that Báthory might seek a divorce so he could marry a younger woman and father an heir; there were also rumors that he had an illegitimate son. This further humiliated and alienated Anna who even approached anti-Báthory groups and opposed his Livonian campaign.\n\nRemoved from politics and receiving substantial income, Anna sponsored several large constructions. She completed reconstruction of the Royal Castle in Warsaw and the Sigismund Augustus Bridge. She built the Bridge Gate to protect the newly built wooden bridge from fire. She also completed the Ujazdów Castle that was started by her mother; it had a large park and a menagerie. In the Wawel Cathedral, she funded the tomb monument of her brother King Sigismund II Augustus in the Sigismund's Chapel (1574–75 by Santi Gucci). The chapel received a new gilded roof in 1584. After her husband's death, she refused to allow his burial in the Sigismund's Chapel; perhaps it was her retribution for the distant marriage as traditions dictated that husband and wife should not be separated in death. Stephen Báthory was buried in the Chapel of the Blessed Virgin Mary. However, Anna did order his tomb monument in 1589. Around the same time she built her own tomb in the Sigismund's Chapel. She also built the tomb of her mother Bona Sforza in the Basilica di San Nicola in Bari (1589–95).\n\nWith the death of her husband in December 1586, Anna had an opportunity to claim the political power in the Commonwealth for herself as she was an elected queen. If needed, a new husband could be found. However, she did not pursue it. Instead, she resolved to promote her niece Anna Vasa or her nephew Sigismund Vasa, the only children of her beloved sister Catherine and King John III of Sweden. Her initial plan, formulated while her husband was still alive, was to wed Anna Vasa and one of the nephews of Stephen Báthory and promote the couple to the throne. However, this plan did not gain support among the nobility. She then planned to sponsor Sigismund Vasa to the throne. Initially, King John III did not want to let his only son out of his sight, but Anna managed to convince him. As a back up plan, she pursued marriage between Anna Vasa and Maximilian III, Archduke of Austria, the other likely candidate to the throne. In her campaigns, she wrote numerous letters and used her wealth. She also gained crucial support from Jan Zamoyski, who was married to Báthory's niece Griselda Báthory and held his own ambitions for the throne. Perhaps both Anna and Jan thought that they could easily control the inexperienced 20-year-old.\n\nSigismund Vasa was elected king on 19 August 1587. He and his sister Anna arrived to Poland in October 1587. After the coronation and the brief War of the Polish Succession, Anna and her niece settled in Warsaw while Sigismund spent most of his time in Kraków. It became clear that he would not allow his aunt to interfere in politics. Despite her disappointment, Anna became attached to her nephew. She participated in his wedding with Anne of Austria and baptism of their firstborn, Anna Maria. After the death of his father in November 1592, Sigismund Vasa spent about a year in Sweden. During that time, the newborn Anna Maria was entrusted to Anna's care. In July 1595, she was the godmother of Władysław Vasa, the future king of Poland.\n\nAnna died in Warsaw on 9 September 1596 as the last Jagiellon.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1885764", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885764", "title": "Emmett Fitzsimmons", "text": "Emmett Fitzsimmons\n\nRobert Emmett Fitzsimmons, known professionally as Emmett Fitzsimmons, is a former member of the NYPD police officer who has appeared in a number of films and television series, including \"Nurse Jackie\", \"Burn Notice\", and \"The Cape\" and Wall Street Money Never Sleeps. A former member of The NYPD, He was awarded the \"Combat Cross\" by the Mayor of the City Of New York for acts of extraordinary heroism while engaged in armed personal combat with armed adversaries under circumstances of imminent personal hazard to life.\n\nA Professional actor for over 25 years, Fitzsimmons has appeared in films, television series and theater productions. \nFitzsimmons is a member of SAG-AFTRA and is Actors Equity Eligible. He has worked directly opposite; Josh Brolin, Jeffrey Donovan, Larry Hagman, McLean Stevenson, Jack Scalia, Frank Gorshin, Christopher Walken, Daniel Hugh Kelly, Michael J. Fox, Lorraine Bracco, Tyra Ferrell, Yancy Butler, Victoria Jackson, Saundra Santiago, George Hamilton, Frank Langella and Eli Wallach.\n\n"}
{"id": "1885765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885765", "title": "Physalis angulata", "text": "Physalis angulata\n\nPhysalis angulata is an erect, herbaceous, annual plant belonging to the nightshade family Solanaceae. It reproduces by seed. Its leaves are dark green and roughly oval, often with tooth shapes around the edge. The flowers are five-sided and pale yellow; the yellow-orange fruits are born inside a balloon-like calyx. It is native to the Americas, but is now widely distributed and naturalized in tropical and subtropical regions worldwide.\n\nIt is related to, but not to be confused with \"Physalis peruviana\", the Cape gooseberry, a fruit native to, and cultivated in the western Andes, and exported worldwide.\n\n"}
{"id": "1885779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885779", "title": "Rubis-class submarine", "text": "Rubis-class submarine\n\nThe Rubis type is a first class generation nuclear attack submarine of the French Navy. The class comprises six vessels and they are the most compact nuclear attack submarines to date. All submarines of the class (except for ) are named after gemstones.\n\nAlthough the \"Rubis\" class belonged to the same generation as the , due to President Charles De Gaulle's insistence on acquiring a nuclear deterrent for France, the \"Rubis\" program was started only in 1974, after the ballistic missile submarine program. The first \"Rubis\" hull was laid down in December 1976 and launched in 1979.\n\nIn 1987, the Canadian White Paper on Defence recommended the purchase of 10 to 12 \"Rubis\" or s under technology transfer, which would be known as the \"Canada\"-class. with the choice of the type of submarine due to be confirmed before Summer 1988. The goal was to build up a three-ocean navy and to assert Canadian sovereignty over Arctic waters.\n\nThe \"Rubis\"-class as designed failed to meet the Canadian Statement of Requirement (SOR) as it was noisy underwater and slow. It also came with the caveat that the first 4-5 submarines would have to be built in France. Unlike the British \"Trafalgar\"-class, the \"Rubis\" design did not require USA permission to transfer the nuclear propulsion technology, as the Americans were certain to invoke their veto of the sale to Canada. The French brought back a revision to their design, added an \"ice pick\" so the submarine could operate under ice and were developing a modification for their torpedo tubes which were too short to use the Mark 48 torpedoes. The purchase was finally abandoned in April 1989 due to high costs, particularly with the end of the Cold War.\n\nThe initial design of the \"Rubis\" proved to be problematic with unexpectedly high noise levels. This led to the \"Améthyste\" silencing program (AMÉlioration Tactique HYdrodynamique Silence Transmission Ecoute, literally \"Silent Acoustic Transmission Tactical Hydrodynamic Improvement\") which was applied to the fifth (S605 \"Améthyste\") and sixth (S606 \"Perle\") hulls.\n\n\"Améthyste\" and \"Perle\" were both longer that the original \"Rubis\", as compared with and the program included upgrades to the sonar, reshaping of the hull form and bow to improve silencing and additional upgrades of the electronics. With the upgrades tested and proven, the original 4 boats were rebuilt to the same standards between 1989 and 1995.\n\nThey have a central computer system for submarine detection, processing of information, and firing of weapons. The hull is made of 80 HLES high elasticity steel. The sonar dome and sail are made of composite materials. The submarines have two crews, \"Blue\" and \"Red\", who man the ships every three months in turn.\n\nThey will be succeeded by the 2nd-generation Barracuda class.\n\nOn 20 August 1993, \"Rubis\" collided with the oil tanker \"Lyria\". On 30 March 1994, \"Émeraude\" had a steam leakage, suffering 10 casualties.\n\nDuring the \"Péan\" inter-allied manoeuvres of 1998, \"Casabianca\" managed to \"sink\" the aircraft carrier and the cruiser that was escorting her.\n\nDuring COMPTUEX 2015, an exercise led by the US Navy, \"Saphir\" successfully defeated the aircraft carrier and her escort, managing to \"sink\" the US carrier. This was widely advertised by the French Navy but unmentioned by the US Navy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1885781", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885781", "title": "Hardy fish", "text": "Hardy fish\n\nHardy fish is any fish which is easy to maintain in home aquaria due to their ability to adapt to a wide range of water parameters. Such fish are good starter fish and ideal for 'cycling' your aquarium (i.e. reducing ammonia and nitrites to effectively zero.)\n\nExamples of hardy freshwater fish include Poecilids such as the guppy, molly, swordtail and platy, most species of betta, zebra danios, and some tetras. Generally, fish are hardy only when they have been tank-bred, since wild-caught fish may take many generations to adapt to life in captivity.\n"}
{"id": "1885789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885789", "title": "Juan Aguilera (tennis)", "text": "Juan Aguilera (tennis)\n\nJuan Aguilera Herrera (; born 22 March 1962) is a retired Spanish professional male tennis player. He was born in Barcelona, Spain.\n\nAguilera has won five singles titles during his career, including one Grand Prix Championship Series title and one Tennis Masters shield, the Hamburg Masters in 1984 and 1990, defeating Boris Becker in the final of the latter in straight sets. His career-high singles ranking is World No. 7, achieved in September 1984.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1885794", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885794", "title": "Kugelpanzer", "text": "Kugelpanzer\n\nThe Kugelpanzer (lit. \"spherical tank\") is a one-man tank built by Germany during World War II, exported to Japan and used by the Kwantung Army. It was captured by the Soviets in Manchuria and is on display in the Kubinka Tank Museum. There is no record of it ever having been used in combat.\n\n"}
{"id": "1885796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885796", "title": "Crowbar (wrestler)", "text": "Crowbar (wrestler)\n\nChristopher Ford (born March 4, 1974) is an American professional wrestler, best known for his tenure in World Championship Wrestling under the ring name Crowbar, where he was a one time Hardcore Champion, a one time World Tag Team Champion with David Flair and a one time Cruiserweight Champion, which he held jointly with Daffney. He is also known for his stints in the World Wrestling Federation, Extreme Championship Wrestling and Total Nonstop Action Wrestling. He currently performs on the independent circuit either as Crowbar or Devon Storm. Along with Terry Funk, Jerry Lynn, Stevie Richards, Raven, and Christopher Daniels, he is one of the few wrestlers to have wrestled matches in WWE, WCW, ECW, TNA, and ROH.\n\nWhile attending college, Ford began training under \"Iron\" Mike Sharpe. After completing his training, he began wrestling on independent circuit under the ring name Devon Storm and formed a successful tag team known as The Extreme with Ace Darling. In November 1994, Storm took part in a tournament for the NWA World Heavyweight Championship, vacated by Shane Douglas; he lost to Tracy Smothers in the first round. After a few years on the indies, Storm wrestled in about 30 matches in Extreme Championship Wrestling in 1996, including losing to Taz via countout at Hostile City Showdown, 2 Cold Scorpio at November to Remember in a Loser Leaves Town match, and Balls Mahoney at Holiday Hell. In 1996, he had four matches in WCW as Dangerous Devon Storm, including a match against Konnan for the United States Championship.\n\nIn 1997, Ford, while using his Devon Storm name, took part in a tournament in the World Wrestling Federation to determine the first-ever Light Heavyweight Champion. He wrestled against and lost to Taka Michinoku, who later went on to win the tournament and the title. From 1998 to 1999, he would later appear on editions of \"Shotgun Saturday Night\", losing to the likes of Droz and D'Lo Brown. He and Ace Darling briefly reunited as a tag team (but not using the name The Extreme) in a losing effort against the then newly formed team of Brian Christopher and Scott Taylor.\n\nAfter leaving the WWF, Storm signed a developmental deal with World Championship Wrestling. After signing with WCW he reformed The Extreme with Darling, but the team saw little success. Following the disbanding of The Extreme, he was placed in a faction with David Flair and Daffney, where he debuted under the name Crowbar. The gimmick of the faction saw all three members act mentally insane, with Daffney becoming known for screaming in her matches and Crowbar being prone to using high risk moves. On the January 3, 2000 edition of \"Monday Nitro\", Crowbar won the World Tag Team Championship alongside Flair after winning a tournament against the teams of Lash LeRoux and Midnight, Buff Bagwell and Vampiro, and finally Kevin Nash and Scott Steiner. They later dropped the title to The Mamalukes (Big Vito and Johnny the Bull) on the January 19 edition of \"Thunder\". After losing a rematch at SuperBrawl 2000, Crowbar teamed up with Daffney to defeat then Cruiserweight Champion Chris Candido and Tammy Lynn Sytch after Daffney pinned Sytch on the May 15 edition of \"Nitro\", thus making them co-champions. Crowbar soon faced Daffney to determine the undisputed Cruiserweight Champion. Crowbar held back during the match, but still dominated the smaller Daffney. However, Candido entered the ring and hit Crowbar with a reverse piledriver and Daffney inadvertently pinned him while trying to revive him and thus became the second woman to hold the Cruiserweight Championship. Crowbar soon began feuding with former tag partner David Flair as well, in which both men traded wins on \"Thunder\". Crowbar soon began chasing after the Hardcore Championship, which he won from Reno on the November 6 edition of \"Thunder\". He later retained the title at Mayhem after defeating Reno and former rival Big Vito. During his reign as Hardcore Champion, he began a feud with Terry Funk that culminated at the final Starrcade pay-per-view, which saw Funk defeat Crowbar to claim his third and final Hardcore Championship.\n\nFord was later released from WCW in March 2001, right before the company was bought out by the World Wrestling Federation. During his time in WCW, Ford continued to work in the physical therapy field when he was not on the road and returned full-time to physical therapy after his release from WCW.\n\nAfter the closure of WCW, Ford, returning to his Devon Storm ring name, defeated fellow WCW alumnus Rick Fuller in a dark match on the April 10, 2001 edition of \"SmackDown!\". He then spent some time in the now defunct World Wrestling All-Stars promotion, where he feuded with Sabu. During his tenure with the company, Storm became the WWA's first and only Hardcore Champion on October 24 when he defeated Danny Dominion in a tables match.\n\nIn early 2003, Ford wrestled briefly for Xtreme Pro Wrestling under the names Judas and Salem, losing his first match to former New Church ally Malice and winning the second against Vic Grimes. Ford later wrestled in several dark matches for World Wrestling Entertainment, the first being on the April 10, 2001 edition of \"SmackDown!\". From mid to late 2003 Ford, alternating between his Devon Storm and Crowbar ring names, wrestled against the likes of Joey Matthews and former WCW alumni Scott Steiner and Sean O'Haire in dark matches before \"SmackDown!\" as well as on \"Sunday Night Heat\" and \"Velocity\".\n\nOn June 4, 2004, Ford began working for HealthSouth as a site coordinator and as an outpatient physical therapist. In addition to working in physical therapy, he returned to wrestling on the independent circuit under his Devon Storm and Crowbar ring names and began competing for various National Wrestling Alliance territories as well as other northeast independent promotions, such as the East Coast Wrestling Association, Jersey All Pro Wrestling, Bodyslam Wrestling Organization, and the Pro Wrestling Syndicate.\n\nOn October 6, 2012, Storm was defeated by Shawn Daivari in the House of Hardcore's first show.\n\nStorm entered the Extreme Rising World Championship tournament which was eventually won by Stevie Richards. He defeated Sabu in the opening round but was defeated by Rhino in the semi-finals.\n\nIn 2002, Ford, under the new name Tempest, joined Total Nonstop Action Wrestling and became a part of Father James Mitchell's stable, The New Church. During his stint in TNA, Tempest took part in TNA's first and only Hard 10 Tournament, losing in the first round to The Sandman, who later went on to win the tournament.\n\nHe returned in 2013 at the One Night Only show, Hardcore Justice 2 in a Hardcore Battle Royale that was won by Shark Boy.\n\nOn August 7, 2004, Ford married Dina Caravella. They have two children who were born in 2007 and 2009.\n\nFord studied at Kean University for six years and graduated with a degree in physical therapy. Chris and Dina currently work at their own health care facility in northern New Jersey where Chris is a physical therapist and Dina is a registered dietitian.\n\n\nFord's style of wrestling is hardcore, that of his idol Terry Funk. He will occasionally jump off stuff and use weapons, most notably the crowbar. His finishing moves the Sitout Front Suplex, which he calls the \"Mindbender\", and the inverted DDT, which he calls \"The Eye of the Storm\". Other moves he uses frequently the Northern Lights Suplex, Catapult Splash, Catapult Leg Drop, Quebrada, the Pescada and the Crowbar swing. \n\n"}
{"id": "1885799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885799", "title": "Business valuation", "text": "Business valuation\n\nBusiness valuation is a process and a set of procedures used to estimate the economic value of an owner's interest in a business. Valuation is used by financial market participants \nto determine the price they are willing to pay or receive to effect a sale of a business. In addition to estimating the selling price of a business, the same valuation tools are often used by business appraisers to resolve disputes related to estate and gift taxation, divorce litigation, allocate business purchase price among business assets, establish a formula for estimating the value of partners' ownership interest for buy-sell agreements, and many other business and legal purposes such as in shareholders deadlock, divorce litigation and estate contest. In some cases, the court would appoint a forensic accountant as the joint expert doing the business valuation.\n\nBefore the value of a business can be measured, the valuation assignment must specify the reason for and circumstances surrounding the business valuation. These are formally known as the business value standard and premise of value.\n\nThe standard of value is the hypothetical conditions under which the business will be valued. The premise of value relates to the assumptions, such as assuming that the business will continue forever in its current form (going concern), or that the value of the business lies in the proceeds from the sale of all of its assets minus the related debt (sum of the parts or assemblage of business assets).\n\n\n\nPremise of value for fair value Calculation\n\nBusiness valuation results can vary considerably depending upon the choice of both the standard and premise of value. In an actual business sale, it would be expected that the buyer and seller, each with an incentive to achieve an optimal outcome, would determine the fair market value of a business asset that would compete in the market for such an acquisition. If the synergies are specific to the company being valued, they may not be considered. Fair value also does not incorporate discounts for lack of control or marketability.\n\nNote, however, that it is possible to achieve the fair market value for a business asset that is being liquidated in its secondary market. This underscores the difference between the standard and premise of value.\n\nThese assumptions might not, and probably do not, reflect the actual conditions of the market in which the subject business might be sold. However, these conditions are assumed because they yield a uniform standard of value, after applying generally accepted valuation techniques, which allows meaningful comparison between businesses which are similarly situated.\n\nA business valuation report generally begins with a summary of the purpose and scope of business appraisal as well as its date and stated audience. What follows is a description of national, regional and local economic conditions existing as of the valuation date, as well as the conditions of the industry in which the subject business operates.\nA common source of economic information for the first section of the business valuation report is the Federal Reserve Board's Beige Book, published eight times a year by the Federal Reserve Bank. State governments and industry associations also publish useful statistics describing regional and industry conditions.\n\nThe financial statement analysis generally involves common size analysis, ratio analysis (liquidity, turnover, profitability, etc.), trend analysis and industry comparative analysis. This permits the valuation analyst to compare the subject company to other businesses in the same or similar industry, and to discover trends affecting the company and/or the industry over time. By comparing a company's financial statements in different time periods, the valuation expert can view growth or decline in revenues or expenses, changes in capital structure, or other financial trends. How the subject company compares to the industry will help with the risk assessment and ultimately help determine the discount rate and the selection of market multiples.\n\nIt is important to mention that among the financial statements, the primary statement to show the liquidity of the company is cash flow.\nCash flow shows the company's cash in and out flow.\n\nThe key objective of normalization is to identify the ability of the business to generate income for its owners. A measure of the income is the amount of cash flow that the owners can remove from the business without adversely affecting its operations. The most common normalization adjustments fall into the following four categories:\n\nThree different approaches are commonly used in business valuation: the income approach, the asset-based approach, and the market approach. Within each of these approaches, there are various techniques for determining the value of a business using the definition of value appropriate for the appraisal assignment. Generally, the income approaches determine value by calculating the net present value of the benefit stream generated by the business (discounted cash flow); the asset-based approaches determine value by adding the sum of the parts of the business (net asset value); and the market approaches determine value by comparing the subject company to other companies in the same industry, of the same size, and/or within the same region. A number of business valuation models can be constructed that utilize various methods under the three business valuation approaches. Venture Capitalists and Private Equity professionals have long used the First chicago method which essentially combines the income approach with the market approach.\n\nIn certain cases equity may also be valued by applying the techniques and frameworks developed for financial options, via a real options framework, as discussed below.\n\nIn determining which of these approaches to use, the valuation professional must exercise discretion. Each technique has advantages and drawbacks, which must be considered when applying those techniques to a particular subject company. Most treatises and court decisions encourage the valuator to consider more than one technique, which must be reconciled with each other to arrive at a value conclusion. A measure of common sense and a good grasp of mathematics is helpful.\n\nThe income approach relies upon the economic principle of expectation: the value of business is based on the expected economic benefit and level of risk associated with the investment. Income based valuation methods determine fair market value by dividing the benefit stream generated by the subject or target company times a discount or capitalization rate. The discount or capitalization rate converts the stream of benefits into present value. There are several different income methods, including capitalization of earnings or cash flows, discounted future cash flows (\"DCF\"), and the excess earnings method (which is a hybrid of asset and income approaches). The result of a value calculation under the income approach is generally the fair market value of a controlling, marketable interest in the subject company, since the entire benefit stream of the subject company is most often valued, and the capitalization and discount rates are derived from statistics concerning public companies. IRS Revenue Ruling 59-60 states that earnings are preeminent for the valuation of closely held operating companies.\n\nHowever, income valuation methods can also be used to establish the value of a severable business asset as long as an income stream can be attributed to it. An example is licensable intellectual property whose value needs to be established to arrive at a supportable royalty structure.\n\nA discount rate or capitalization rate is used to determine the present value of the expected returns of a business. The discount rate and capitalization rate are closely related to each other, but distinguishable. Generally speaking, the discount rate or capitalization rate may be defined as the yield necessary to attract investors to a particular investment, given the risks associated with that investment. See Required rate of return.\n\n\nThere are several different methods of determining the appropriate discount rates. The discount rate is composed of two elements: (1) the risk-free rate, which is the return that an investor would expect from a secure, practically risk-free investment, such as a high quality government bond; plus (2) a risk premium that compensates an investor for the relative level of risk associated with a particular investment in excess of the risk-free rate. Most importantly, the selected discount or capitalization rate must be consistent with stream of benefits to which it is to be applied.\n\nCapitalization and discounting valuation calculations become mathematically equivalent under the assumption that the business income grows at a constant rate.\n\nThe capital asset pricing model (CAPM) provides one method of determining a discount rate in business valuation. The CAPM originated from the Nobel Prize-winning studies of Harry Markowitz, James Tobin, and William Sharpe. The method derives the discount rate by adding risk premium to the risk-free rate. The risk premium is derived by multiplying the equity risk premium with \"beta\", a measure of stock price volatility. Beta is compiled by various researchers for particular industries and companies, and measures systematic risks of investment.\n\nOne of the criticisms of the CAPM is that beta is derived from volatility of prices of publicly traded companies, which differ from non-publicly companies in liquidity, marketability, capital structures and control. Other aspects such as access to credit markets, size, and management depth are generally different, too. The rate build-up method also requires an assessment of the subject company's risk, which provides valuation of itself. Where a privately held company can be shown to be sufficiently similar to a public company, the CAPM may be suitable. However, it requires the knowledge of market stock prices for calculation. For private companies that do not sell stock on the public capital markets, this information is not readily available. Therefore, calculation of beta for private firms is problematic. The build-up cost of capital model is the typical choice in such cases.\n\nWith regard to capital market-oriented valuation approaches there are numerous valuation approaches besides the traditional CAPM model. They include, for example, the Arbitrage pricing theory (APT) as well as the Consumption-based Capital Asset Pricing Model (CCAPM). Furthermore, alternative capital market models were developed, having in common that expected return hinge on \"multiple\" risk sources and thus being less restrictive:\n\n\nNevertheless, even these models are not wholly consistent, as they also show market anomalies. However, the method of incomplete replication and risk covering come along without the need of capital market data and thus being more solid. Equally notable is the existence of investment based approaches, considering different investment opportunities and determining an investment program by means of linear optimization. Among them the approximative decomposition valuation approach can be found.\n\nThe cost of equity (Ke) is computed by using the modified capital asset pricing model (Mod. CAPM)\n\nformula_1\n\nWhere:\n\nformula_2 = Risk free rate of return (Generally taken as 10-year Government Bond Yield)\n\nformula_3 = Beta Value (Sensitivity of the stock returns to market returns)\n\nformula_4 = Cost of Equity\n\nformula_5 = Market Rate of Return\n\nSCRP = Small Company Risk Premium\n\nCSRP= Company specific Risk premium\n\nThe weighted average cost of capital is an approach to determining a discount rate. The WACC method determines the subject company's actual cost of capital by calculating the weighted average of the company's cost of debt and cost of equity. The WACC must be applied to the subject company's net cash flow to total invested capital.\n\nOne of the problems with this method is that the valuator may elect to calculate WACC according to the subject company's existing capital structure, the average industry capital structure, or the optimal capital structure. Such discretion detracts from the objectivity of this approach, in the minds of some critics.\n\nIndeed, since the WACC captures the risk of the subject business itself, the existing or contemplated capital structures, rather than industry averages, are the appropriate choices for business valuation.\n\nOnce the capitalization rate or discount rate is determined, it must be applied to an appropriate economic income stream: pretax cash flow, aftertax cash flow, pretax net income, after tax net income, excess earnings, projected cash flow, etc. The result of this formula is the indicated value before discounts. Before moving on to calculate discounts, however, the valuation professional must consider the indicated value under the asset and market approaches.\n\nCareful matching of the discount rate to the appropriate measure of economic income is critical to the accuracy of the business valuation results. Net cash flow is a frequent choice in professionally conducted business appraisals. The rationale behind this choice is that this earnings basis corresponds to the equity discount rate derived from the Build-Up or CAPM models: the returns obtained from investments in publicly traded companies can easily be represented in terms of net cash flows. At the same time, the discount rates are generally also derived from the public capital markets data.\n\nThe Build-Up Method is a widely recognized method of determining the after-tax net cash flow discount rate, which in turn yields the capitalization rate. The figures used in the Build-Up Method are derived from various sources. This method is called a \"build-up\" method because it is the sum of risks associated with various classes of assets. It is based on the principle that investors would require a greater return on classes of assets that are more risky. \n\nBy adding the first three elements of a Build-Up discount rate, we can determine the rate of return that investors would require on their investments in small public company stocks. These three elements of the Build-Up discount rate are known collectively as the \"systematic risks.\" \nThis type of investment risk cannot be avoided through portfolio diversification. It arises from external factors and affect every type of investment in the economy. As a result, investors taking systematic risk are rewarded by an additional premium.\n\nIn addition to systematic risks, the discount rate must include \"unsystematic risk\" representing that portion of total investment risk that can be avoided through diversification. Public capital markets do not provide evidence of unsystematic risk since investors that fail to diversify cannot expect additional returns. Unsystematic risk falls into two categories. \n\nHistorically, no published data has been available to quantify specific company risks. However, as of late 2006, new research has been able to quantify, or isolate, this risk for publicly traded stocks through the use of Total Beta calculations. P. Butler and K. Pinkerton have outlined a procedure which sets the following two equations together:\nThe only unknown in the two equations is the company specific risk premium. While it is possible to isolate the company-specific risk premium as shown above, many appraisers just key in on the total cost of equity (TCOE) provided by the first equation.\n\nIt is similar to using the market approach in the income approach instead of adding separate (and potentially redundant) measures of risk in the build-up approach. The use of total beta (developed by Aswath Damodaran) is a relatively new concept. It is, however, gaining acceptance in the business valuation Consultancy community since it is based on modern portfolio theory. Total beta can help appraisers develop a cost of capital who were content to use their intuition alone when previously adding a purely subjective company-specific risk premium in the build-up approach.\n\nIt is important to understand why this capitalization rate for small, privately held companies is significantly higher than the return that an investor might expect to receive from other common types of investments, such as money market accounts, mutual funds, or even real estate. Those investments involve substantially lower levels of risk than an investment in a closely held company. Depository accounts are insured by the federal government (up to certain limits); mutual funds are composed of publicly traded stocks, for which risk can be substantially minimized through portfolio diversification.\n\nClosely held companies, on the other hand, frequently fail for a variety of reasons too numerous to name. Examples of the risk can be witnessed in the storefronts on every Main Street in America. There are no federal guarantees. The risk of investing in a private company cannot be reduced through diversification, and most businesses do not own the type of hard assets that can ensure capital appreciation over time. This is why investors demand a much higher return on their investment in closely held businesses; such investments are inherently much more risky. (This paragraph is biased, presuming that by the mere fact that a company is closely held, it is prone towards failure.)\n\nIn asset-based analysis the value of a business is equal to the sum of its parts. That is the theory underlying the asset-based approaches to business valuation. The asset approach to business valuation reported on the books of the subject company at their acquisition value, net of depreciation where applicable. These values must be adjusted to fair market value wherever possible.\nThe value of a company's intangible assets, such as goodwill, is generally impossible to determine apart from the company's overall enterprise value. For this reason, the asset-based approach is not the most probative method of determining the value of going business concerns. In these cases, the asset-based approach yields a result that is probably lesser than the fair market value of the business.\nIn considering an asset-based approach, the valuation professional must consider whether the shareholder whose interest is being valued would have any authority to access the value of the assets directly. Shareholders own shares in a corporation, but not its assets, which are owned by the corporation. A controlling shareholder may have the authority to direct the corporation to sell all or part of the assets it owns and to distribute the proceeds to the shareholder(s). The non-controlling shareholder, however, lacks this authority and cannot access the value of the assets. As a result, the value of a corporation's assets is not the true indicator of value to a shareholder who cannot avail himself of that value. The asset based approach is the entry barrier value and should preferably to be used in businesses having mature or declining growth cycle and is more suitable for capital intensive industry.\n\nAdjusted net book value may be the most relevant standard of value where liquidation is imminent or ongoing; where a company earnings or cash flow are nominal, negative or worth less than its assets; or where net book value is standard in the industry in which the company operates. The adjusted net book value may also be used as a \"sanity check\" when compared to other methods of valuation, such as the income and market approaches...\n\nThe market approach to business valuation is rooted in the economic principle of competition: that in a free market the supply and demand forces will drive the price of business assets to a certain equilibrium. Buyers would not pay more for the business, and the sellers will not accept less, than the price of a comparable business enterprise. The buyers and sellers are assumed to be equally well informed and acting in their own interests to conclude a transaction. It is similar in many respects to the \"comparable sales\" method that is commonly used in real estate appraisal. The market price of the stocks of publicly traded companies engaged in the same or a similar line of business, whose shares are actively traded in a free and open market, can be a valid indicator of value when the transactions in which stocks are traded are sufficiently similar to permit meaningful comparison.\n\nThe difficulty lies in identifying public companies that are sufficiently comparable to the subject company for this purpose. Also, as for a private company, the equity is less liquid (in other words its stocks are less easy to buy or sell) than for a public company, its value is considered to be slightly lower than such a market-based valuation would give.\n\nWhen there is a lack of comparison with direct competition, a meaningful alternative could be a vertical value-chain approach where the subject company is compared with, for example, a known downstream industry to have a good feel of its value by building useful correlations with its downstream companies. Such comparison often reveals useful insights which help business analysts better understand performance relationship between the subject company and its downstream industry. For example, if a growing subject company is in an industry more concentrated than its downstream industry with a high degree of interdependence, one should logically expect the subject company performs better than the downstream industry in terms of growth, margins and risk.\n\nGuideline Public Company method entails a comparison of the subject company to publicly traded companies. The comparison is generally based on published data regarding the public companies' stock price and earnings, sales, or revenues, which is expressed as a fraction known as a \"multiple.\" If the guideline public companies are sufficiently similar to each other and the subject company to permit a meaningful comparison, then their multiples should be similar. The public companies identified for comparison purposes should be similar to the subject company in terms of industry, product lines, market, growth, margins and risk.\n\nHowever, if the subject company is privately owned, its value must be adjusted for lack of marketability. This is usually represented by a discount, or a percentage reduction in the value of the company when compared to its publicly traded counterparts. This reflects the higher risk associated with holding stock in a private company. The difference in value can be quantified by applying a discount for lack of marketability. This discount is determined by studying prices paid for shares of ownership in private companies that eventually offer their stock in a public offering. Alternatively, the lack of marketability can be assessed by comparing the prices paid for restricted shares to fully marketable shares of stock of public companies.\n\nAs above, in certain cases equity may be valued by applying the techniques and frameworks developed for financial options, via a real options framework. \nFor general discussion as to context see § \"Valuing flexibility\" under corporate finance, , and Contingent claim valuation; \nfor detail as to applicability and other considerations see § \"Limitations\" under real options valuation.\n\nIn general, equity may be viewed as a call option on the firm, and this allows for the valuation of troubled firms which may otherwise be difficult to analyse. The classic application of this approach is to the valuation of distressed securities, already discussed in the original Black-Scholes paper. Here, since the principle of limited liability protects equity investors, shareholders would choose not to repay the firm's debt where the value of the firm (as perceived) is less than the value of the outstanding debt; see bond valuation. Of course, where firm value is greater than debt value, the shareholders would choose to repay (i.e. exercise their option) and not to liquidate. Thus analogous to out the money options which nevertheless have value, equity will (may) have value even if the value of the firm falls (well) below the face value of the outstanding debt—and this value can (should) be determined using the appropriate option valuation technique. See also Merton model. (A further application of this principle is the analysis of principal–agent problems; see contract design under principal–agent problem.)\n\nCertain business situations, and the parent firms in those cases, are also logically analysed under an options framework; see \"Applications\" under the Real options valuation references. Just as a financial option gives its owner the right, but not the obligation, to buy or sell a security at a given price, companies that make strategic investments have the right, but not the obligation, to exploit opportunities in the future; management will of course only exercise where this makes economic sense. Thus, for companies facing uncertainty of this type, the stock price may (should) be seen as the sum of the value of existing businesses (i.e., the discounted cash flow value) plus any real option value. Equity valuations here, may (should) thus proceed likewise. Compare PVGO.\n\nA common application is to natural resource investments. Here, the underlying asset is the resource itself; the value of the asset is a function of both quantity of resource available and the price of the commodity in question. The value of the resource is then the difference between the value of the asset and the cost associated with developing the resource. Where positive (\"in the money\") management will undertake the development, and will not do so otherwise, and a resource project is thus effectively a call option. A may (should) therefore also be analysed using the options approach. Specifically, the value of the firm comprises the value of already active projects determined via DCF valuation (or other standard techniques) and undeveloped reserves as analysed using the real options framework. See Mineral economics.\n\nProduct patents may also be valued as options, and the value of firms holding these patents—typically firms in the , , and sectors—can (should) similarly be viewed as the sum of the value of products in place and the portfolio of patents yet to be deployed. As regards the option analysis, since the patent provides the firm with the right to develop the product, it will do so only if the present value of the expected cash flows from the product exceeds the cost of development, and the patent rights thus correspond to a call option. See . Similar analysis may be applied to options on films (or other works of intellectual property) and the valuation of film studios.\n\nBesides mathematical approaches for the valuation of companies a rather unknown method includes also the cultural aspect. The so-called Cultural valuation method (Cultural Due Diligence) seeks to combine existing knowledge, motivation and internal culture with the results of a net-asset-value method. Especially during a company takeover uncovering hidden problems is of high importance for a later success of the business venture.\n\nThe valuation approaches yield the fair market value of the Company as a whole. In valuing a minority, non-controlling interest in a business, however, the valuation professional must consider the applicability of discounts that affect such interests.\nDiscussions of discounts and premiums frequently begin with a review of the \"levels of value\". There are three common levels of value: controlling interest, marketable minority, and non-marketable minority.\nThe intermediate level, marketable minority interest, is less than the controlling interest level and higher than the non-marketable minority interest level. The marketable minority interest level represents the perceived value of equity interests that are freely traded without any restrictions. These interests are generally traded on the New York Stock Exchange, AMEX, NASDAQ, and other exchanges where there is a ready market for equity securities. These values represent a minority interest in the subject companies – small blocks of stock that represent less than 50% of the company's equity, and usually much less than 50%.\nControlling interest level is the value that an investor would be willing to pay to acquire more than 50% of a company's stock, thereby gaining the attendant prerogatives of control. Some of the prerogatives of control include: electing directors, hiring and firing the company's management and determining their compensation; declaring dividends and distributions, determining the company's strategy and line of business, and acquiring, selling or liquidating the business. This level of value generally contains a control premium over the intermediate level of value, which typically ranges from 25% to 50%. An additional premium may be paid by strategic investors who are motivated by synergistic motives.\nNon-marketable, minority level is the lowest level on the chart, representing the level at which non-controlling equity interests in private companies are generally valued or traded. This level of value is discounted because no ready market exists in which to purchase or sell interests. Private companies are less \"liquid\" than publicly traded companies, and transactions in private companies take longer and are more uncertain. Between the intermediate and lowest levels of the chart, there are restricted shares of publicly traded companies.\nDespite a growing inclination of the IRS and Tax Courts to challenge valuation discounts, Shannon Pratt suggested in a scholarly presentation recently that valuation discounts are actually increasing as the differences between public and private companies is widening . Publicly traded stocks have grown more liquid in the past decade due to rapid electronic trading, reduced commissions, and governmental deregulation. These developments have not improved the liquidity of interests in private companies, however.\nValuation discounts are multiplicative, so they must be considered in order. Control premiums and their inverse, minority interest discounts, are considered before marketability discounts are applied.\n\nThe first discount that must be considered is the discount for lack of control, which in this instance is also a minority interest discount. Minority interest discounts are the inverse of control premiums, to which the following mathematical relationship exists:\nMID = 1 – [1 / (1 + CP)]\nThe most common source of data regarding control premiums is the Control Premium Study, published annually by Mergerstat since 1972. Mergerstat compiles data regarding publicly announced mergers, acquisitions and divestitures involving 10% or more of the equity interests in public companies, where the purchase price is $1 million or more and at least one of the parties to the transaction is a U.S. entity. Mergerstat defines the \"control premium\" as the percentage difference between the acquisition price and the share price of the freely traded public shares five days prior to the announcement of the M&A transaction.\nWhile it is not without valid criticism, Mergerstat control premium data (and the minority interest discount derived therefrom) is widely accepted within the valuation profession.\n\nA \"discount for lack of marketability\" (DLOM) may be applied to a minority block of stock to alter the valuation of that block. \n\nAnother factor to be considered in valuing closely held companies is the marketability of an interest in such businesses. Marketability is defined as the ability to convert the business interest into cash quickly, with minimum transaction and administrative costs, and with a high degree of certainty as to the amount of net proceeds. There is usually a cost and a time lag associated with locating interested and capable buyers of interests in privately held companies, because there is no established market of readily available buyers and sellers.\n\nAll other factors being equal, an interest in a publicly traded company is worth more because it is readily marketable. Conversely, an interest in a private-held company is worth less because no established market exists. \"The IRS Valuation Guide for Income, Estate and Gift Taxes, Valuation Training for Appeals Officers\" acknowledges the relationship between value and marketability, stating: \"Investors prefer an asset which is easy to sell, that is, liquid.\"\n\nThe discount for lack of control is separate and distinguishable from the discount for lack of marketability. It is the valuation professional's task to quantify the lack of marketability of an interest in a privately held company. Because, in this case, the subject interest is not a controlling interest in the Company, and the owner of that interest cannot compel liquidation to convert the subject interest to cash quickly, and no established market exists on which that interest could be sold, the discount for lack of marketability is appropriate.\n\nSeveral empirical studies have been published that attempt to quantify the discount for lack of marketability. These studies include the restricted stock studies and the pre-IPO studies. The aggregate of these studies indicate average discounts of 35% and 50%, respectively. Some experts believe the Lack of Control and Marketability discounts can aggregate discounts for as much as ninety percent of a Company's fair market value, specifically with family-owned companies.\n\nRestricted stocks are equity securities of public companies that are similar in all respects to the freely traded stocks of those companies except that they carry a restriction that prevents them from being traded on the open market for a certain period of time, which is usually one year (two years prior to 1990). This restriction from active trading, which amounts to a lack of marketability, is the only distinction between the restricted stock and its freely traded counterpart. Restricted stock can be traded in private transactions and usually do so at a discount. The restricted stock studies attempt to verify the difference in price at which the restricted shares trade versus the price at which the same unrestricted securities trade in the open market as of the same date.\nThe underlying data by which these studies arrived at their conclusions has not been made public. Consequently, it is not possible when valuing a particular company to compare the characteristics of that company to the study data. Still, the existence of a marketability discount has been recognized by valuation professionals and the Courts, and the restricted stock studies are frequently cited as empirical evidence. Notably, the lowest average discount reported by these studies was 26% and the highest average discount was 40%.\n\nIn addition to the restricted stock studies, U.S. publicly traded companies are able to sell stock to offshore investors (SEC Regulation S, enacted in 1990) without registering the shares with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The offshore buyers may resell these shares in the United States, still without having to register the shares, after holding them for just 40 days. Typically, these shares are sold for 20% to 30% below the publicly traded share price. Some of these transactions have been reported with discounts of more than 30%, resulting from the lack of marketability. These discounts are similar to the marketability discounts inferred from the restricted and pre-IPO studies, despite the holding period being just 40 days.\nStudies based on the prices paid for options have also confirmed similar discounts. If one holds restricted stock and purchases an option to sell that stock at the market price (a put), the holder has, in effect, purchased marketability for the shares. The price of the put is equal to the marketability discount. The range of marketability discounts derived by this study was 32% to 49%. However, ascribing the entire value of a put option to marketability is misleading, because the primary source of put value comes from the downside price protection. A correct economic analysis would use deeply in-the-money puts or Single-stock futures, demonstrating that marketability of restricted stock is of low value because it is easy to hedge using unrestricted stock or futures trades.\n\nAnother approach to measure the marketability discount is to compare the prices of stock offered in initial public offerings (IPOs) to transactions in the same company's stocks prior to the IPO. Companies that are going public are required to disclose all transactions in their stocks for a period of three years prior to the IPO. The pre-IPO studies are the leading alternative to the restricted stock stocks in quantifying the marketability discount.\n\nThe pre-IPO studies are sometimes criticized because the sample size is relatively small, the pre-IPO transactions may not be arm's length, and the financial structure and product lines of the studied companies may have changed during the three year pre-IPO window.\n\nThe studies confirm what the marketplace knows intuitively: Investors covet liquidity and loathe obstacles that impair liquidity. Prudent investors buy illiquid investments only when there is a sufficient discount in the price to increase the rate of return to a level which brings risk-reward back into balance.\nThe referenced studies establish a reasonable range of valuation discounts from the mid-30%s to the low 50%s. The more recent studies appeared to yield a more conservative range of discounts than older studies, which may have suffered from smaller sample sizes. Another method of quantifying the lack of marketability discount is the Quantifying Marketability Discounts Model (QMDM).\n\nThe evidence on the market value of specific businesses varies widely, largely depending on reported market transactions in the equity of the firm. A fraction of businesses are \"publicly traded,\" meaning that their equity can be purchased and sold by investors in stock markets available to the general public. Publicly traded companies on major stock markets have an easily calculated \"market capitalization\" that is a direct estimate of the market value of the firm's equity. Some publicly traded firms have relatively few recorded trades (including many firms traded \"over the counter\" or in \"pink sheets\"). A far larger number of firms are privately held. Normally, equity interests in these firms (which include corporations, partnerships, limited-liability companies, and some other organizational forms) are traded privately, and often irregularly. As a result, previous transactions provide limited evidence as to the current value of a private company primarily because business value changes over time, and the share price is associated with considerable uncertainty due to limited market exposure and high transaction costs.\n\nA number of stock market indicators in the United States and other countries provide an indication of the market value of publicly traded firms. The Survey of Consumer Finance in the US also includes an estimate of household ownership of stocks, including indirect ownership through mutual funds. The 2004 and 2007 SCF indicate a growing trend in stock ownership, with 51% of households indicating a direct or indirect ownership of stocks, with the majority of those respondents indicating indirect ownership through mutual funds. Few indications are available on the value of privately held firms. Anderson (2009) recently estimated the market value of U.S. privately held and publicly traded firms, using Internal Revenue Service and SCF data. He estimates that privately held firms produced more income for investors, and had more value than publicly held firms, in 2004.\n\n"}
{"id": "1885802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885802", "title": "Circle K International", "text": "Circle K International\n\nCircle K International (CKI) is an international collegiate service organization that is a service leadership program of Kiwanis International. It promotes service, leadership, and fellowship. It has over 13,000 members.\n\nCircle K International is a service organization formed to help the community through various service projects. It is part of an umbrella of organizations led by Kiwanis International. Circle K International also aims to build fellowship and create leaders within the membership.\n\nThe organization raises funds for various causes. The major initiative is: “Focusing on the Future: Children” which aims to help children of ages six to thirteen. In 2007, Circle K partnered with the U.S. Fund to help raise $500,000 for UNICEF in efforts to help children around the world who do not have access to clean drinking water. This is called \"Saving Lives – The Six Cents Initiative.\" It got its name from the cost in U.S. funds, to purchase one pack of rehydration salts to purify a day’s worth of drinking water. Their service partners include UNICEF, Students Team Up to Fight Hunger (STUFH), March of Dimes, Better World Books, Junior Chamber International, and the St. Baldrick's Foundation.\n\nIn 2017, Circle K International partnered with UNICEF to adopt the five-year signature project WASH. Circle K International aims to provide education, awareness, and funding to supply clean drinking water and sanitation education to schools and children in Haiti to target Haiti’s emergency needs to reach 200,000 people in cholera-affected areas with a complete WASH response package.\n\n\"I pledge to uphold the Objects of Circle K International, to foster compassion and goodwill toward others through service and leadership, to develop my abilities and the abilities of all people, and to dedicate myself to the realization of humanity’s potential.\"\n\nIn 1936, the “Circle K House” at Washington State College was established by the Kiwanis Club of Pullman, Washington. Organized as a fraternity, Kappa Iota Phi served men who needed financial aid to attend college. Kiwanians also wanted to provide collegiate students leadership opportunities for their future careers and work service projects to better their communities while having a sense of fellowship. In 1947, Circle K changed from a fraternity to a service organization. That year, the first Circle K club was chartered at Carthage College in Carthage, Illinois. In 1949, two more clubs were added, and by 1955 there were 147 clubs, at which point Circle K received official endorsement from Kiwanis International. Circle K International adopted the Kiwanians beliefs by establishing the three tenets of Service, Leadership, and Fellowship to bring a sense of purpose to the organization.\n\nThe Kiwanis International Board of Trustees accepted a proposal to allow the establishment of Circle K Districts on February 22, 1957. The very first Circle K District to be officially recognized was the Texas-Oklahoma District. The second Circle K District was Kentucky-Tennessee which was closely followed by Michigan. Four more Districts were added in the 1957-58 administrative year: Missouri-Arkansas, California-Nevada-Hawaii, Ohio, and Alabama.\n\nIn 1971, delegates at the International Convention voted to allow women into the organization. The move was initially met with resistance by Kiwanis, which must approve all changes to the Circle K governing documents. After nearly two years of debate, the Kiwanis International Board of Trustees approved the change on February 6, 1973 and Circle K became the first co-ed organization in the Kiwanis Family. In 1984, Susan E. McClernon was elected the first female International President of Circle K International.\n\nIn 1975, Gregory Faulkner from the New York District was elected to the position of International President. Faulkner was the first African-American International President. Faulkner's election and the admission of female members was symbolic of the new level of maturity and responsibility Circle K International had assumed over 20 years of service, growth and development.\n\nAt the International Convention in 1987, the delegates approved the use of the initials CKI as an official name of the organization. That same year, Kiwanis International voted to allow women into Kiwanis clubs. Key Club had gone co-ed in 1977.\n\nAs of the end of 2005, membership consisted of over 13,250 college students in 17 nations around the world. Most of the Circle K membership currently resides in North America, in 30 Districts recognized by Kiwanis International. Twenty-seven districts are entirely within the United States, while three districts are international representing Canada and the Caribbean. These three Districts are the Pacific Northwest (made up of Oregon, Idaho, Washington, and the Canadian province of British Columbia and Yukon Territory), Western Canada (Alberta and Manitoba), and Eastern Canada and the Caribbean. Districts-in-Formation exist in Eastern Canada, Central and South America, Australia, and the Pacific Rim.\n\nCircle K International celebrated its 50th anniversary at the 2005 International Convention in Greensboro, North Carolina. The International Convention's theme was, \"CKI's 50th Anniversary: 50 Never Looked So Good\".\n\nCKI operates on a three-tiered system similar to Kiwanis International and Key Club International. The International Board oversees organizational policy, growth and international expansion. The International Board is elected at the International Convention held in a different city each summer. The CKI Board is composed of an International President, Vice-President, and eight trustees who represent assigned districts. The International Board meets in-person a minimum of four times per year.\n\nInternational President: \nBilly Hackett\n\nInternational Vice-President: \nSara Al-Midany \n\nInternational Trustees: \n\n\"Trustee:\" Tana Early <br>\nDistricts: Pacific Northwest, Kansas, Wisconsin Upper-Michigan, Texas-Oklahoma \n\n\"Trustee:\" Maria Landron <br>\nDistricts: Rocky Mountain, Panama, Kentucky-Tennessee, Caribbean\n\n\"Trustee:\" Racheal Fairley <br>\nDistricts: California-Nevada-Hawaii, Utah-Idaho, Florida, Louisiana-Mississippi-West Tennessee, New England\n\n\"Trustee:\" Jose Leoncio <br>\nDistricts: Illinois-Eastern Iowa, Missouri-Arkansas, Colombia, New Jersey\n\n\"Trustee:\" Steven Shaw <br>\nDistricts: West Virginia, New York, Western Canada, Georgia\n\n\"Trustee:\" Chelsie Higdon <br>\nDistricts: Capital, Eastern Canada, Michigan, Nebraska-Iowa\n\n\"Trustee:\" Hannah Negray <br>\nDistricts: Ohio, Indiana, Southwest, Montana\n\n\"Trustee\": Don Nguyen <br>\nDistricts: Carolinas, Alabama, Pennsylvania, Minnesota-Dakotas\n\nInternational Committee Chairs serve Circle K International by being experts in a particular field and running committees to complete tasks that directly affect the membership. \n\nExecutive Committee: Billy Hackett (Chair), Sara Al-Midany (Secretary), Jose Leoncio (member), Racheal Fairley (member) <br>\nKiwanis Family Relations Committee: Caitlin Poulk (Chair), Hannah Negray (Secretary/Liaison) <br>\nService Committee: Annamarie McGuire (Chair), Steven Shaw (Secretary/Liaison) <br>\nCKIx Planning Committee: Eduardo Martinez (Chair), Don Nguyen (Secretary/Liaison) <br>\nGlobal Development Committee: Maria Landron (Chair/Liaison) <br>\nGoverning Documents and Awards Committee: David Su (Chair), Chelsie Higdon (Secretary/Liaison) <br>\nMembership Committee: Mackenzie Steele (Chair), Tana Early (Professional Development Secretary/Liaison), Racheal Fairley (New Member Education Secretary/Liaison) <br>\nFinance Committee: Joey Caine (Chair), Jose Leoncio (Secretary/Liaison) <br>\n\nDistrict Boards provide support and guidance to the Circle K clubs within their geographical area. All districts are headed by a Governor, who oversees the District Board members that often consist of a District Secretary, District Treasurer, District Editor, and Lieutenant Governors. Several Districts combine two District positions into a District Secretary/Treasurer. In place of Lieutenant Governors, a number of Districts have incorporated Presidents Councils. District Conventions are held every year (in February or March depending on the District) for member education, club officer training, and election of the next District Board. Districts are charged with implementing International policies within their represented clubs and otherwise enhancing the member experience. All District Boards are responsible for club building, Kiwanis Family relations, laws and regulations, membership retention/education, and planning District events for the membership (e.g., District Convention). <br>\nClub Boards (also known as club officers or club Executive Boards) are an important aspect of CKI, second only to the club members, as they are the elected leaders who work within their community. Club Boards work with their District Boards on membership recruitment strategies, Kiwanis Family projects, membership retention and education, and social events. Also, Club Boards plan community service projects and social events for their members. CKI recommends all clubs to elect their new Club Boards before their District Convention. <br>\nApril 1 marks the CKI New Year each year, when club and district leadership transitions to newly elected officials. <br>\n\nA. Mr. Creasy and Mr. Alford were President before a charter and separate Constitution and By-laws were created for Circle K.\n\n"}
{"id": "1885807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885807", "title": "Transcona, Winnipeg", "text": "Transcona, Winnipeg\n\nTranscona is a suburb of Winnipeg, Manitoba, located about 10 kilometres (6 miles) east of the downtown area. Until 1972 it was a separate municipality, having been incorporated first as the Town of Transcona on 6 April 1912 and then as the City of Transcona in 1961. Today it is represented by the Transcona city ward, represented by a member of Winnipeg City Council, and, with much larger boundaries including large areas that were part of the Municipality of North Kildonan, much of the area west of Plessis, the Transcona neighbourhood cluster. It is primarily a working class residential area with some light industry.\n\nTranscona was founded in 1909 as the site of the repair shops for the Grand Trunk Pacific and National Transcontinental Railways. Its name is derived from combining \"Trans\"continental with Strath\"cona\", the name of Donald Smith, Lord Strathcona, a former Manitoban who was instrumental in building the Canadian Pacific Railway. Today the Canadian National Railway is still a major employer in the community. CNR 2747 a Class N-5-c, 2-8-0 steam locomotive on display at the corner of Plessis Road and Kildare Avenue in the Kiwanis Park courtesy of the Winnipeg Railway Museum. The locomotive is the first steam locomotive built in 1926, totally at CNR Transcona Shops.\n\n1907 - Canadian Pacific builds additional railway tracks near district in the Municipality of Kildonan (CPR)\n\n1908 - Grand Trunk Pacific (GTP) decides on Transcona as location for railway shops and buys of land. Name of Transcona adopted for future town. Townsite was originally to be created in what is now the South Transcona area, but this area was low lying and subject to flooding so main townsite was moved north of shops.\n\n1909 - Haney, Quinlan and Robertson start work on excavation for the foundation of the new shops\n\n1910 (January 1) - first steel pillar is raised in the new shop building, and the post office opened\n\n1911 (February 10) - first Board of Trade is organized.\n\n1912 (April 6) - Town of Transcona receives its charter, and on November 12 Municipal offices and Fire Hall opened for Public Inspection. The first electric light and power installed from Pointe du Bois generating station of Winnipeg Hydro. Central School officially opened but classes do not begin until 1913.\n\n1913 (January 18) - GTP shops opened, on April 10 Mayor Transcona presents Morley Donaldson, Vice-President of GTP, with golden key as memento of shop opening. CPR builds grain elevator and opens yards near Transcona in the Municipality of Springfield and the Municipality of Kildonan. In October, the grain elevator tilts due to failure of its foundations, becoming a textbook example of the importance of soil mechanics. It is later restored.\n\n1914 - Sewage system installed\n\n1915-1918 - GTP shops engaged in manufacture of munitions\n\n1919 - Shoal Lake water connection for Town. Transcona athletic organization\n\n1919 - Biggest sports field in Transcona's history held\n\n1921 - Having run out of money, the town council dissolves, and the town is run until 1928 by provincially-appointed administrators\n\n1926 - First locomotive built in CNR shops\n\n1929 - New post office built\n\n1930 - Transcona Horticultural Society organized\n\n1933 - Effects of the Great Depression hit Transcona. At the peak the town is paying the rent for 192 families.\n\n1942 - is commissioned, a named for the town. The vessel participates in anti-submarine combat in the North Atlantic in December 1944.\n\n1950 - The Red River floods. Some Winnipeg residents are temporarily sheltered in Transcona churches.\n\n1961 - Becomes City of Transcona\n\n1972 - Amalgamated with the City of Winnipeg along with 11 other communities\n\nIn 2016, Transcona was home to 36,280 people. Though the majority of the area consists of houses built several decades ago, there are newer developments located in the east and northwest sections of the community including Canterbury Park, Lakeside Meadows, and Mission Gardens. Transcona's future expansion is limited by the presence of the Red River Floodway and the Perimeter Highway.\n\nTranscona is part of the Elmwood-Transcona federal electoral district represented in the Canadian House of Commons by Daniel Blaikie of the New Democratic Party of Canada. In the Manitoba Legislature, the representatives are Daryl Reid and partly by Bidhu Jha, of the New Democratic Party of Manitoba.\n\nIn 1959, the Transcona-Springfield School Division was created, supported jointly by the Town of Transcona and the Rural Municipality of Springfield for high school education only, and administered by a School Board of nine officials. The Transcona School District No. 39 remained for elementary and junior high students. The School Division and Transcona School District merged in 1967. In 2002, the Transcona part of the former Transcona-Springfield School Division and the River East School Division were united as the River East Transcona School Division.\n\n\n\n\n\nThe neighbourhood has produced several celebrities, including sports commentator Rod Black, former MuchMusic on-air personality Bradford How, Canadian athlete and cancer research activist Terry Fox, professional wrestler Kenny Omega, and Olympic speed skater Susan Auch.\n\nIn 2005, following in the style of CBC's The Greatest Canadian series, the Transcona Historical Museum sponsored their own local version called \"The Greatest Transconian.\" The award was given to citizen Paul Martin. Mr. Martin was a Second World War veteran with the Royal Winnipeg Rifles, a long-serving City Councillor, former Mayor of Transcona (1958-1959), and member of the School Board. He was influential in creating the Transcona Historical Museum.\n\nProfessional wrestler Kenny Omega (born Tyson Smith) was born and raised in Transcona, and in 2018 became the first Canadian-born IWGP Heavyweight Champion in the title's history. This follows a career in Japanese professional wrestling that includes a number of championship wins across weight classes.\n\nTranscona is the home of Football Manitoba sports team the Transcona Nationals which has age groups ranging from 7 to 21.\n\nThree major community clubs and two indoor arenas can be found in the neighbourhood. Park City West, Oxford Heights, and East End Community Clubs organize a variety of recreational activities, while East End and Roland Michener arenas host most on-ice activities.\n\nFrom 1983 to September 10, 2011, Transcona was represented by the Transcona Railers Hockey team in the MMJHL who played out of the Roland Michener Arena. They were disbanded because the team found it hard to draw players of the required skill levels and numbers. A team of railers alumni applied for membership into the MMJHL. On January 7, 2012, the league board accepted the new Transcona franchise for the 2012-2013 season. The new team plays at the newly renovated east end arena in the new side of the building. \n\n"}
{"id": "1885810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885810", "title": "The Friend Who Got Away", "text": "The Friend Who Got Away\n\nThe Friend Who Got Away () is an anthology of essays dealing with the subject of the dissolution of friendships among women. It was published in 2005 by Doubleday. The collection is edited by Jenny Offill and Elissa Schappell.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1885847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885847", "title": "Christian Reformed Churches of Australia", "text": "Christian Reformed Churches of Australia\n\nThe Christian Reformed Churches of Australia (CRCA), formerly known as the Reformed Churches of Australia (RCA) is a Christian denomination established in Australia belonging to the Reformed/Presbyterian tradition.\n\nThis denomination has its roots in the European Reformation of the 15th and 16th centuries, affirming the beliefs that God grants salvation by grace alone, in Christ alone and through faith alone.\n\nThe denomination is part of the worldwide family of reformed churches which came into being at the time of the Reformation, and declared themselves reformed from the teachings and practices of the Roman Catholic Church at that time. Whereas Martin Luther was the champion of the Reformation in Germany, John Calvin was the champion of the Reformation in Switzerland, the Netherlands and northern Europe. It is John Calvin's understanding of the Bible, as spelled out in his Institutes of the Christian Religion, that forms the doctrinal basis of the various reformed churches.\n\nThis doctrinal basis is further summarized in the three Confessions to which the continental reformed churches adhere:\n\nAnd by the Confession to which the Presbyterian churches adhere:\n\nThis denomination was established by post-World War II Dutch migrants in 1951. Many of the migrants had been members of the Reformed Churches in the Netherlands. They had no desire to start new congregations in their new home, and had been advised to seek the pastoral care of the Scottish Free Presbyterians (i.e. the Presbyterian Church of Eastern Australia) upon their arrival in Australia. The differences between the culture of the Australian-Scottish Presbyterians and the Reformed Netherlanders was a hindrance, but the real problem was the liturgical restrictions where no instrumental accompaniment was allowed and only psalms were sung. The Dutch migrants struggled to find churches in Australia which embraced and upheld Biblical and Reformed theology, with a national profile that could enfold these new settlers, and was governed according to reformed tradition. For these reasons, in December 1951, they organised a separate denomination, initially composed of Reformed Churches in Sydney, Penguin and Melbourne. The new denomination held their first Synod in June 1952 in premises owned by the Presbyterian Church of Eastern Australia at East St Kilda. By 1955, some dozen congregations were formed in all Australian states, and the denomination, then named the Reformed Churches of Australia, grew to around 10,500 by the early 1990s, when it was renamed the Christian Reformed Churches Of Australia.\n\nCurrently there is an active membership of around 7800 in over fifty churches spread throughout Australia. This steady decline is due to a desire to assimilate in their new country, welcome changes in the Anglican and Presbyterian Churches in some states bringing these denominations theologically closer, and certain aspects of generational change. Numerous South African immigrants in the last decade have slowed this trend, as have converts from other denominations. From exclusively Dutch beginnings, the CRCA is now a culturally diverse group, reflecting the character of Australian society, and is seeking to proclaim the Christian message in a contemporary and relevant way.\n\nThe denomination has been instrumental in the establishment of many Christian schools, including the Illawarra Christian School, Sutherland Shire Christian School, Tyndale Christian School (New South Wales), Calvin Christian School Kingston Tasmania, and Covenant College (ACT). It is actively engaged in Christian missions both within Australia and abroad. One of these is The NSW THING. They have established their own theological college, the Reformed Theological College in Geelong, Victoria. They also own Wedderburn Christian Campsite, a Christian camp site in the outskirts of Sydney. They also support SWIM Solomon Islands, which is a missionary outreach in the Solomon Islands. The CRCA also produces a denominational magazine titled \"Trowel And Sword\"\n\nSince 2000, the CRCA has adopted a fourfold mission statement to remind and empower its member churches to set and focus on their primary goal of equipping God's people for the service of God both within and beyond itself. The four tasks are headed: Pray, Multiply, Train and Align.\n\nThe basic unit is the local church, which is governed by the local session as \"elected\" by the congregation. All sessions within a geographical area (typically on a statewide basis) meet every 3-4 months as a classis.\n\nNationally, delegates meet every three years as a Synod. The synod deals only with issues raised by a classis. Therefore, all synodical issues were originally raised by a session, brought to a classis, before coming to the synod. At synod, policies for the church are formulated, directions considered, and new ways forward explored. In between synodical meetings the financial commitments of the member churches are administered by a Synodical Board of Management, while all other matters affecting the church as a whole are looked after by the Synodical Interim Committee.\n\nPermanent committees of synod include:\n\nSenator Eric Abetz is a member of the Kingston Christian Reformed Church .\n\nMember churches of the CRCA are found in every state of Australia, along with one church in the Australian Capital Territory. The member churches, listed alphabetically with their dates of institution, are as follows:\n\nAustralian Capital Territory\n\nNew South Wales\n\nQueensland\n\nSouth Australia\n\nTasmania\n\nVictoria\n\nWestern Australia\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1885854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885854", "title": "Pat Patterson (wrestler)", "text": "Pat Patterson (wrestler)\n\nPat Patterson (born Pierre Clermont on January 19, 1941) is a Canadian–American professional wrestler. He is currently employed by the professional wrestling promotion WWE as a creative consultant and producer. He is the inaugural WWE Intercontinental Champion and creator of the Royal Rumble match, Patterson was inducted into the WWE Hall of Fame class of 1996. In 2019, Patterson \nbecame the oldest person to ever win a title in WWE history, after winning the WWE 24/7 Championship at 78 years old. He has been described by journalist Dave Meltzer as \"Vince McMahon's right-hand man\" and \"one of the chief architects of the WWE, playing an integral role in helping it become a global phenomenon.\".\n\nPatterson was born into an impoverished French-speaking family in the Ville-Marie arrondissement of Montreal, Quebec, Canada in 1941. He began training to wrestle at the age of 14 at Loisirs Saint Jean Baptiste.\n\nPatterson was raised Roman Catholic, and was an altar boy. He expressed an interest to a priest in becoming one himself, but was advised it would not have worked, because he was \"too adventurous\".\n\nPatterson debuted in Montreal, Quebec in 1958, wrestling at the Palais des Sports for promoter Sylvio Samson. Early in his career, he performed as \"Killer\" Pat Patterson.\n\nIn 1962, Patterson - despite speaking no English - emigrated to the United States to pursue his professional wrestling career. \nHe eventually became a U.S. citizen.\n\nPatterson initially worked for Tony Santos's Big Time Wrestling promotion in Boston, Massachusetts. While living and working in Boston, Patterson met his long-term partner, Louie Dondero.\n\nIn 1962, Patterson was recruited by Mad Dog Vachon for Don Owen's Portland, Oregon-based Pacific Northwest Wrestling promotion. At the encouragement of PNW promoter Harry Elliot, who was aware of Patterson's homosexuality, Patterson developed the character of \"Pretty Boy\" Pat Patterson, an effeminate wrestler who wore lipstick, sunglasses, and a beret and carried a cigarette holder.\n\nIn 1963, Patterson wrestled for promotions in Texas, Arizona and Oklahoma as part of a talent exchange organized by Owen.\n\nPatterson returned to Pacific Northwest Wrestling in 1964. He held the NWA Pacific Northwest Tag Team Championship on two occasions that year. On October 2, 1964, Patterson defeated Pepper Martin for the NWA Pacific Northwest Heavyweight Championship. He held the championship for six weeks before losing to Martin. Patterson won the championship again in 1965 and 1966.\n\nIn January 1965, Patterson was hired by Roy Shire for his San Francisco, California-based Big Time Wrestling promotion. At Shire's request, Patterson dyed his hair blond to form a tag team with Ray Stevens, The Blond Bombers. The duo won the NWA World Tag Team Championship in 1965 and again in 1967. The Blonde Bombers were described by Bret Hart as \"considered by many to be the best tag team of the 1970s\".\n\nIn 1968, Patterson wrestled for NWA Western States Wrestling in Amarillo, Texas as Lord Patrick Patterson, winning the NWA North American Heavyweight Championship and NWA Brass Knuckles Championship. In the same year, he undertook a six-week tour of Japan, facing Antonio Inoki in a series of bouts.\n\nAfter Stevens turned face in the late 1960s, he had a feud with the heel Patterson, culminating in the 1970s Texas Death match, in which Stevens won the title from Patterson.\n\nIn 1970 and 1971, Patterson wore a mask during his matches, and would cheat by placing a foreign object under the mask to add power to his headbutts. In 1972, Patterson turned face again, after feuding with Lars Anderson, who was managed by Dr. Ken Ramey. Later that year, he teamed with Rocky Johnson and won the tag team championship. In 1975 and 1981, Patterson won the Cow Palace Battle Royal in San Francisco.\n\nIn 1977, Patterson wrestled for Eddie Graham's Tampa, Florida-based Championship Wrestling from Florida promotion. During his run, he won the NWA Florida Television Championship and the NWA Florida Tag Team Championship, as well as briefly serving as booker.\n\nIn 1978, Patterson joined Verne Gagne's Minneapolis, Minnesota-based American Wrestling Association. He reformed The Blond Bombers with Ray Stevens, with the duo winning the AWA World Tag Team Championship later that year. Patterson performed intermittently for the AWA until 1983.\n\nIn 1979, Patterson toured Japan with New Japan Pro Wrestling.\n\nPatterson made his professional return to Quebec in 1980, wrestling a number of bouts for the Montreal, Quebec-based Lutte Internationale promotion. He held the Canadian International Tag Team Championship on five occasions between 1980 and 1983.\n\nIn 1979, Patterson debuted in the World Wrestling Federation (WWF), working as a heel, under the tutelage of manager The Grand Wizard. As a villain, Patterson's primary feuds were with then WWF North American Champion Ted DiBiase and WWF Heavyweight Champion Bob Backlund. During a television taping on June 19 in Allentown, Pennsylvania, Patterson defeated DiBiase for the WWF North American Championship by using a pair of brass knuckles to knock out DiBiase. Patterson was unsuccessful, however, in winning the WWF Heavyweight Championship from Backlund.\n\nIn September 1979, the WWE would introduce the WWE Intercontinental Championship, a secondary championship for its midcard wrestlers. Patterson was crowned the company's first Intercontinental Heavyweight Champion after an alleged tournament held in Rio de Janeiro. While Patterson's tournament \"victory\" is widely listed in wrestling title and match histories, the tournament itself never actually took place. Patterson's apocryphal title victory would later become something of an inside joke during Patterson's on-screen tenure as one of Vince McMahon's \"stooges\". The fictional tournament was also later profiled in-depth on WWE.com as an April Fool's joke. On November 8, Patterson dropped the North American title to Seiji Sakaguchi.\n\nIt was during Patterson's reign as champion that he turned face, after a botched attempt by the Grand Wizard to \"sell\" Patterson's contract to \"Captain\" Lou Albano for $100,000; Albano's protégés, the Wild Samoans, attacked Patterson after he cut a promo insulting Albano. Patterson held the Intercontinental Heavyweight Championship until April 21, 1980 when he was defeated by Ken Patera in New York City, New York. The match ended in controversial fashion after Patterson placed his right leg on the ropes just before the three count was made. On May 4, 1981, Patterson's feud with Sgt. Slaughter culminated in a Bootcamp match in Madison Square Garden. The match was voted Match of the Year by the \"Wrestling Observer Newsletter\".\n\nPatterson began doing color commentary in 1980 with Vince McMahon, calling \"WWF Championship Wrestling\" from 1980-84. While Patterson was a face commentator when partnered with Gorilla Monsoon and Vince McMahon, he hosted a heel interview segment for French WWF broadcasts known as \"Le brunch de Pat\", where he would politely ask questions in English but furtively mock his face guests in French. Patterson was on commentary with Monsoon when Hulk Hogan defeated The Iron Sheik for the world heavyweight championship, as well as for when Sheik defeated Bob Backlund. Patterson was also calling the action when Jimmy Snuka jumped off the steel cage and splashed Don Muraco in Madison Square Garden in 1983.\n\nPatterson retired from wrestling in 1984. Although retired, Patterson continued to occasionally wrestle. On January 26, 1985 he wrestled Nikolai Volkoff in a losing effort in a house show in Cincinnati, OH. The following month he teamed with Andre the Giant at a pair of house shows in Canada and defeated Ken Patera and Big John Studd. He took the spot of Mad Dog Vachon on the WWF skit show Le brunch on WWF Superstars in Canada till late summer 1987, then several wrestlers like the Rougeau Bros and Dino Bravo replace him, and then Frenchie Martin hosted LE Studio as a replacement of Le Brunch. Before that he made another appearance, this time in a battle royal in Montreal on February 24, 1987. He also appeared in a battle royal at a house show in Buffalo, NY on December 27. Patterson made a handful of additional appearances in Montreal in 1987, wrestling as a heel (while remaining a face or neutral backstage official in the United States and elsewhere in Canada). His most notable appearance was a win over the up-and-coming Brutus Beefcake on August 10 His final match would come three weeks later in Montreal as he fell in defeat to Beefcake. and he got a haircut.\n\nHe began working backstage as a road agent and right-hand man to WWF promoter Vince McMahon, and is credited with inventing and booking the Royal Rumble match. In the late 1990s, he also worked in the talent-relations department.\n\nAfter his retirement, Patterson also worked as a WWF referee. He was selected as the in-ring referee for the main event at the first ever WrestleMania at Madison Square Garden on March 31, 1985, a well as the main event of WrestleMania XI.\n\nIn 1992, Patterson was accused of sexual harassment by former ring announcer Murray Hodgson. He was briefly released from the company until the charges were dropped, when he was promptly rehired.\n\nIn 1997, Patterson, along with Gerald Brisco, became comedy heels as the on-screen stooges of Vince McMahon, assisting their boss in his rivalries with Stone Cold Steve Austin, Mankind and The Rock. Patterson and Brisco were among the founding members of The Corporation. In order to mock Hulk Hogan, they used \"Real American\" as their entrance music and parodied Hogan's flexing routine as they approached the ring. on the May 18, 1998 episode of Raw, Patterson and Brisco competed in a 2 on 1 Street Fight against Stone Cold that ended in a no contest when Vince Mcmahon and Dude Love attacked Stone Cold.\n\nLater in 1999, the two became entangled with the McMahon-Helmsley Faction. On the December 16, 1999 episode of \"SmackDown\", Patterson and Brisco helped Test, who had been injured by D-Generation X. Triple H and Stephanie McMahon then forced Patterson and Brisco to compete for the WWF Tag Team Championship against The New Age Outlaws or be fired. Patterson and Brisco lost the match. In 2000, Patterson and Brisco joined Triple and Stephanie. On the May 8 episode of Raw, Patterson, Road Dogg and X-Pac faced Rikishi in a 3 on 1 handicap match and were disqualified after Patterson hit Rikishi with a chair. Afterwards, Patterson lowered his drawers to deliver a Stink Face to Rikishi with stained underwear, which commentator Jim Ross described as a \"tractor-sized skidmark\". On June 12, 2000, when the Faction unmasked Kane, Patterson photographed Kane's \"hideously scarred\" face, and threatened to \"expose him to the world\" if he did not comply. Kane was forced to wrestle The Rock (then his ally) in a No Holds Barred match. When Patterson's film did not develop properly, Kane turned on the Faction.\n\nOn June 19, 2000 Patterson helped Brisco win the perpetually contested WWF Hardcore Champion from Crash Holly but during the victory celebration turned on his ally, blinding him with champagne and then breaking a second bottle over Brisco's head, and pinning the (kayfabe) unconscious champion. Brisco pursued Patterson into the women's locker room, where Patterson was hiding in drag. Subsequently, Vince McMahon scheduled them to fight over Hardcore Championship in an Evening Gown match at King of the Ring 2000; in the course of the match, Crash Holly attacked both men and pinned Patterson to become Hardcore Champion.\nOn the June 21 episode of Raw, Patterson and Brisco's match with Shane and Vince Mcmahon ended in a no contest when The Mean Street Posse ran in and attacked them.\n\nThe Intercontinental Championship, unified with the World Heavyweight Championship on October 20, 2002, was resurrected on May 18, 2003 at Judgment Day in a battle royal. Patterson, as the first ever Intercontinental Champion, was at ringside to present the belt to the victor. Booker T eliminated Christian for the win, but the referee was unconscious. As Patterson attempted to give the championship belt to Booker T, Christian attacked him, stole the Intercontinental Championship belt and used it to knock out Booker T. The referee then recovered and awarded the match to Christian.\n\nIn October 2004, Patterson retired from World Wrestling Entertainment. Patterson returned to WWE in a limited capacity in May 2005. While he is now retired as a producer for WWE, he still acts as a creative consultant. At Breaking Point, Patterson made an appearance in his hometown of Montreal in an in-ring segment with Dolph Ziggler.\n\nPatterson was a regular cast member on the WWE Network original reality show \"Legends' House\".\n\nOn July 22, 2019, during the \"Raw Reunion\" episode, Patterson won the WWE 24/7 Championship by pinning Drake Maverick backstage. He would lose the title to Gerald Brisco off-screen later that same night. At 78 years old, he became the oldest person ever to win a title in WWE history, beating The Fabulous Moolah's fourth reign with the original WWF Women's Championship at 76 years old. It was also Patterson's first title reign since June 19, 2000, with the similarly introduced WWF Hardcore Championship, which also uses the \"24/7 rule\". He was only the second person ever to win both the 24/7 and Hardcore Championships.\n\nPatterson is openly gay. He first came out in the early 1970s, and although Jim Ross made several jokes about it on commentary, his sexuality was not acknowledged publicly or in WWE storylines until the season finale of \"WWE Legends' House\", which aired June 12, 2014.\n\nHis longtime partner was Louie Dondero. Patterson stated on \"WWE Legends' House\" that they were together for 40 years and that Dondero died of a heart attack on June 28, 1998, the same night as King of the Ring 1998.\n\nIn August 2006, Patterson underwent emergency heart surgery to remove a cyst from his coronary artery. In October, Patterson recovered from his operation and was released from the hospital.\n\nHe legally changed his name to Pat Patterson in 2008.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1885859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885859", "title": "List of cantonal executives of Switzerland", "text": "List of cantonal executives of Switzerland\n\nThis article lists the cantonal executives of Switzerland. Each canton of Switzerland has its own executive body, as well as legislative body. The Federal Council is the executive of the Swiss federal government, and is included for purposes of comparison.\n\nThe cantonal executives are collegial bodies, each with 5 or 7 members. They are generally called ' (Executive Council) in German-speaking cantons and ' (State Council) in French-speaking cantons.\n\nThe below list is up to date .\n\n"}
{"id": "1885865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885865", "title": "Rhodium(III) chloride", "text": "Rhodium(III) chloride\n\nRhodium(III) chloride refers to inorganic compounds with the formula RhCl(HO), where \"n\" varies from 0 to 3. These are diamagnetic solids featuring octahedral Rh(III) centres. Depending on the value of \"n\", the material is either a dense brown solid or a soluble reddish salt. The soluble trihydrated (n = 3) salt is widely used to prepare compounds used in homogeneous catalysis, notably for the industrial production of acetic acid and hydroformylation.\n\nAqueous solutions of RhCl(HO) have been characterized by Rh NMR spectroscopy, which shows the presence of several species. The proportions of which change with time and depend on the concentration of chloride. The relative distribution of these species determines the colour of the solutions, which can range from yellow (the hexaaquo ion) to \"raspberry-red\". Some of these species are [Rh(HO)], [RhCl(HO)], \"cis\"- and \"trans\"-[RhCl(HO)], and [RhCl(HO)]. Individual ions have been separated by ion exchange chromatography.\n\nAnhydrous rhodium chloride crystallises in the YCl and AlCl motif (see image in upper right). The metal centres are octahedral, and the halides are doubly bridging. It is a dense brown solid that is insoluble in common solvents and of little value in the laboratory.\n\nRhCl(HO) is produced from salts such as NaRhCl, the latter being obtained in the purification of rhodium from the other platinum group metals such as platinum and iridium. The sodium salt is converted to HRhCl by ion exchange chromatography. Recrystallization of this acidic salt from water affords the hydrated trichloride, sometimes called \"soluble rhodium trichloride.\" Anhydrous RhCl is prepared by reaction of chlorine with rhodium sponge metal at 200–300 °C. Above 800 °C, the anhydrous chloride reverts to Rh metal and chlorine.\n\nVarious rhodium chloride complexes are intermediates in the purification of rhodium from its ores.\n\nRhCl(HO) is the precursor to a wide variety of complexes, some of which are commercially useful. It reacts with acetylacetone to give rhodium acetylacetonate.\n\nSolutions of RhCl(HO) react with ammonia in the presence of alcohol to give the salt pentamminerhodium chloride, [RhCl(NH)]Cl. Zinc reduction of this cation followed by the addition of sulfate gives the colourless hydride complex [HRh(NH)]SO.\n\nUpon boiling in a mixture of ethanol and pyridine (py), hydrated rhodium trichloride converts to \"trans\"-[RhCl(py))]Cl. In the absence of a reductant, the reaction affords \"fac\"-[RhCl(py)], analogous to the thioether derivatives. Oxidation of aqueous ethanolic solution of pyridine and RhCl(HO) by air affords a blue paramagnetic oxygen-bridged compound, \n\nEthanolic solutions of hydrated rhodium trichloride react with dialkyl sulfides.\n\nBoth \"fac\" and \"mer\" stereoisomers of such compounds have been isolated.\n\nReaction of RhCl(HO) under mild conditions with tertiary phosphines affords adducts akin to the aforementioned thioether complexes. When these reactions are conducted in boiling ethanol solution, reduction of rhodium(III) occurs, leading to rhodium(I) derivatives such as [RhCl(PPh)], Wilkinson's catalyst, with oxidation of the solvent or more commonly with an excess of the phosphine:\n\nReaction of RhCl(HO) with olefins affords compounds of the type RhCl(alkene). With 1,5-cyclooctadiene, RhCl(HO) react in ethanol to give cyclooctadiene rhodium chloride dimer.\nRhCl(HO) in methanol reacts with carbon monoxide (1 bar) to produce H[RhCl(CO)], which contains the dicarbonyldichloridorhodate(I) anion; further carbonylation in the presence of sodium citrate leads to the formation of tetrarhodium dodecacarbonyl, Rh(CO), a rhodium(0) cluster compound. Treatment of solid RhCl(HO) with flowing CO gives the dimeric rhodium(I) compoundrhodium carbonyl chloride, [(CO)Rh(μ-Cl)].\n\nNumerous Rh-CO-PR (R = organic group) compounds have been prepared in the course of extensive investigations on hydroformylation catalysis. RhCl(PPh) reacts with CO to give \"trans\"-RhCl(CO)(PPh), stoichiometrically analogous to but less reactive than Vaska's complex. \"Trans\"-RhCl(CO)(PPh) reacts with a mixture of NaBH and PPh to give HRh(CO)(PPh), a highly active catalyst for hydroformylation of alkenes.\n\nWhen treated with cyclopentadienes or its derivatives, organometallic half sandwich compounds can be produced. For example, reacting the trihydrate with pentamethylcyclopentadiene (Cp*H) in hot methanol leads to the precipitation of the pentamethylcyclopentadienyl rhodium dichloride dimer, [Cp*RhCl]:\n\nThis compound was first prepared from hexamethyl Dewar benzene and RhCl(HO). The hydrohalic acid necessary for the ring-contraction rearrangement is generated \"in situ\" in methanolic solutions of the rhodium salt, and the second step has been carried out separately, confirming this mechanistic description. The reaction occurs with the formation of 1,1-dimethoxyethane, CHCH(OCH), and hexamethylbenzene is produce by a side reaction. This rhodium(III) dimer can be reduced with zinc in the presence of CO to produce the rhodium(I) complex [Cp*Rh(CO)].\n\nBeginning especially in the 1960s, RhCl(HO) was demonstrated to be catalytically active for a variety of reactions involving CO, H, and alkenes. For example, RhCl(HO) was shown to dimerise ethene to a mixture of \"cis\" and \"trans\" 2-butene:\nUnfortunately this reaction fails for higher alkenes.\n\nEthylene dimerization was shown to involve catalysis by the dimeric rhodium(I) compound [(η-CH)Rh(μ-Cl)Rh(η-CH)]. This and many related discoveries nurtured the then young field of homogeneous catalysis, wherein the catalysts are dissolved in the medium with the substrate. Previous to this era, most metal catalysts were \"heterogeneous\", i.e. the catalysts were solids and the substrates were either liquid or gases. Another advance in homogeneous catalysis was the finding that PPh-derived complexes were active catalytically as well as soluble in organic solvents, the best known such catalyst being Wilkinson's catalyst that catalyzes the hydrogenation and isomerization of alkenes. The hydroformylation of alkenes is catalyzed by the related RhH(CO)(PPh). Catalysis by rhodium is so efficient that it has significantly displaced the previous technology based on less expensive cobalt catalysts.\n\nRhodium(III) chloride is not listed under Annex I of Directive 67/548/EEC, but is usually classified as \"harmful\", R22: \"Harmful if swallowed\". Some Rh compounds have been investigated as anti-cancer drugs. It is listed in the inventory of the Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA).\n\n"}
{"id": "1885867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885867", "title": "Caledonian Railway 956 Class", "text": "Caledonian Railway 956 Class\n\nThe Caledonian Railway 956 Class were 3-cylinder 4-6-0 steam locomotives that were used on the Caledonian Railway from 1921. They were built to the design of William Pickersgill. At the time they were the largest design operated by a Scottish railway.\n\nThe class ran to four members:\n\nsource: BritishSteam\n\n\nThe locomotives were large and visually very impressive, but they were not successful and never really got established in traffic. One author has described them as \"that monumental flop of all time\", another as \"ineffectual giants\".\n\nDraughting was a problem from the beginning, and firemen had a lot of trouble keeping them up to pressure. There were other troubles thought to be a result of too small an ashpan causing choking of the grate. However, the chief problem was the failure of the unusual derived motion design. The valve gear was insufficiently robust and the valve spindle guides (originally cast iron) had to be replaced in cast steel, but this did not address the fundamental shortcomings of the design and the performance of these large locomotives remained woeful.\n\nBy early 1922 management decided things could not be left alone and in April of that year No.s 957 and 958 were rebuilt to the strange arrangement of Walschaerts valve gears for the outside cylinders and Stephenson link motion for the inside one. At the same time No. 959 was given a modified version of the standard Caledonian equipment but with dashpots added to absorb stress that was thought to exist at some points. No. 956 was first given a different variation of the standard arrangement, then brought into line with No. 959, but by the end of 1922 both had been altered again, this time to the same mixed gear arrangement as 957/958. It would have been difficult to retrofit Walschaerts gear to the inside cylinder (because there would be no mounting-point for the combination lever) but it seems strange that a modified Walschaerts gear was not used. It would have been possible to add a second eccentric to drive the combination lever.\n\nNone of the changes seems to have achieved very much. Experienced locomotive engineers have expressed astonishment and disbelief at the \"cacophony\" that the mixed valve gear gave rise to, and many have stated that the whole idea was a disaster.\n\nDespite their larger size they were capable of no better work than the preceding 60 class (which did not have a sparkling reputation themselves), and the allocation of power class '5P' by the LMS was hardly deserved. Within a few years they had been relegated to freight traffic. Being a non-standard class of only four locomotives the LMS showed no interest in rebuilding them further and they were all withdrawn between 1931 and 1936.\n\n"}
{"id": "1885878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885878", "title": "Calopogon", "text": "Calopogon\n\nCalopogon, grass pink, is a genus of terrestrial orchids (family Orchidaceae). The generic name is from Greek and means \"beautiful beard\", referring to the cluster of hairs adorning the labellum. The five species are native to the eastern United States, eastern Canada, Cuba and the Bahamas. The genus \"Calopogon\" is abbreviated Cpg in trade journals.\n\n\"Calopogon\", like many other orchids, is an indicator species for good remnant hydrology. This means that their presence is an indication of high-quality ground and surface water. Most species of \"Calopogon\" frequent wet, sunny swales, bogs, and the edges of marshy areas, and associate with ferns, sedges, grasses and forbs. \"Calopogon oklahomensis\" has been observed in drier areas than \"Calopogon tuberosus\" would prefer.\n\nOne distinguishing feature of the grass pinks is that, unlike most orchids, they are non-resupinate. The lip of calopogon is on the top of the flower, not the bottom, as is common with most other genera. The brushy, yellow protuberances on the lip are also designed to attract pollinators, but they only tempt without providing a reward. To add injury to insult, the flower then snaps closed when a potential pollinator lands on it, and the insect has to crawl out of the tight quarters between the lip and the reproductive parts below in order to escape, hopefully pollinating the flower in the process.\n\nThe other deception they use is their frequent association with nectar-bearing flowers of the same color; \"Calopogon\" is often an associate of the magenta marsh phlox, in the northern United States, the phlox bearing nectar to reward curious insects while the deceptive but showy \"Calopogon\" does not.\n\nFive species are currently accepted as of May 2014:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1885885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885885", "title": "Rebab", "text": "Rebab\n\nThe rebab (, \"rabāba\", variously spelled \"rebap\", \"rabab\", \"rebeb\", \"rababa\", \"rabeba\", \"robab\", \"rubab\", \"rebob\", etc) is the name of several related bowed (but sometimes plucked) string instruments that independently spread via Islamic trading routes over much of North Africa, the Middle East, parts of Europe, and the Far East. \n\nIt is one of the earliest known bowed instruments, named no later than the 8th century and is the parent of many bowed and stringed instruments. \n\nThere are chiefly 3 main types: \n\nA long-necked bowed variety that often has a spike at the bottom to rest on the ground (see first image to the right), thus it is called spike fiddle in certain areas. Some of the instruments developing from this have vestigial spikes. \n\nA short necked double-chested or \"boat-shaped\" variant, here plucked versions like the \"kabuli rebab\" (sometimes referred to as the \"robab\" or \"rubab\") also exist. \n\nBesides the spike fiddle variant, there also exists a variant with a pear-shaped body, quite similar to the Byzantine lyra and the Cretan lyra. This latter variant travelled to western Europe in the 11th century, and became the rebec. This rabāb is the ancestor of all European bowed instruments, including the rebec and the lyra.\n\nThis article will only concentrate on the spike-fiddle \"rebab\", which usually consists of a small, usually rounded body, the front of which is covered in a membrane such as parchment or sheepskin and has a long neck attached. There is a long thin neck with a pegbox at the end and there are one, two or three strings. There is no fingerboard. The instrument is held upright, either resting on the lap or on the floor. The bow is usually more curved than that of the violin.\n\nThe \"rebab\", though valued for its voice-like tone, has a very limited range (a little over an octave), and was gradually replaced throughout much of the Arab world by the violin and kemenche. The Iraqi version of the instrument (\"jawza\" or \"joza\") has four strings.\n\nThe rebab is used in a wide variety of musical ensembles and genres, corresponding with its wide distribution, and is built and played somewhat differently in different areas. Following the principle of construction in Iran, the rebab is a large instrument with a range similar to the viola da gamba, whereas versions of the instrument further west tend to be smaller and higher-pitched. The body varies from being ornately carved, as in Java, to simpler models such as the 2-string Egyptian \"fiddle of the Nile.\" They may have a body made of half a coconut shell, while the more sophisticated versions have a metal soundbox, and the front may be half-covered with beaten copper, and half with cowskin.\n\nThe rebab was heavily used, and continues to be used, in Arabic Bedouin music and is mentioned by Johann Ludwig Burckhardt in his travelog \"Travels in Arabia\": \n\n\"Of instruments they possess only the \"rababa\", (a kind of guitar,) the \"ney\", (a species of clarinet,) and the \"tambour\", or tambourine.\"\n\nIt is called \"joza\" in Iraq, named after the sound box material made of a coconut shell. There is also a bowed instrument in Persian music named Kamanche which has similar shape and structure. \n\nFor a famous Iranian singer and rebab player see Hassaan Egzaar Chenani.\n\nThe spike fiddle variants are very commonly used by many North, East and Central Asian ethnic groups and their diaspora around the world, such as the Huqin variety used by most ethnic groups of China, the khoochir and morin khuur of Mongolia, the Byzaanchy of Tuva, the Haegeum of Korea, kyl kiak of Kyrgyzstan, Saw sam sai of Thailand and many others. These are generally used in playing traditional folk tunes, but have also become popular in arrangements of contemporary music, including such genres as classical, jazz, and rock.\n\nIn the Indonesian gamelan the rebab is an essential elaborating instrument, ornamenting the basic melody. A two-string bowed lute consisting of a wooden body, traditionally though now rarely a single coconut shell, covered with very fine stretched skin. Two brass strings are tuned a fifth apart and the horse hair bow is tied loosely (unlike modern Western stringed instruments) with the proper tension controlled by the players bow hand, contributing to the difficult technique. There are typically two per ensemble, one for \"pelog\" and one for \"slendro\", never played together.\n\nThe rebab does not have to conform exactly to the scale of the other gamelan instruments and can be played in relatively free time, finishing its phrases after the beat of the gong ageng (the big gong that \"rules\" the ensemble, see: colotomy). The rebab also frequently plays the buka when it is part of the ensemble.\n\nIn the eastern Malaysian states of Kelantan and Terengganu, the Rebab is used in a healing ritual called \"Main Puteri\". The musician healer is sometimes taken to hospitals in cases where doctors are unable to heal ailing patients.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1885886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885886", "title": "Sunset Transit Center", "text": "Sunset Transit Center\n\nThe Sunset Transit Center is a TriMet bus transit center and light rail station on the MAX Blue and Red lines in Washington County, Oregon. It opened for MAX in 1998 and is the 5th stop westbound on the Westside MAX. This is the first stop after the Robertson Tunnel under Portland's West Hills. Sunset TC is the second-busiest station on the Westside MAX line, with a weekday average of almost 6,000 daily riders in 2012. Though the station has a Portland address, it primarily serves residents of the communities of Cedar Hills, Cedar Mill, and Beaverton.\n\nNamed for the adjacent Sunset Highway (part of U.S. 26), the transit center also has a pedestrian bridge over that freeway, to connect to the Cedar Hills Shopping Center and Cedar Hills neighborhood. Several bus routes serve the center.\n\nThe transit center's MAX platforms are below street level, set in an open cut, immediately west of an unnamed 600-foot-long tunnel to the shoulder of Oregon Route 217. Multiple bus stops are located around the top of the station pit, and at the station's west end is a two-story park-and-ride garage with 622 parking spaces on three levels (the top level is open). The garage includes a 74-space secured parking area for bicycles, opened in 2010. The park-and-ride is the busiest park-and-ride in TriMet's system.\n\nThe parking garage opened on March 3, 1997, served by a single bus line (89) whose route was altered for the purpose, because its construction was completed well ahead of the opening of the Westside MAX line. Route 89 provided service between downtown Portland and Rock Creek at that time.\n\nThe transit center effectively opened on September 12, 1998, with the start of MAX service and the addition of several more bus routes, the latter altered to serve Sunset TC in place of the 1979-opened Cedar Hills Transit Center, located on the other side of the freeway (and closed permanently on this date).\n\nSunset TC is the second-busiest MAX station on Portland's west side, with a weekday average of almost 6,000 daily riders in 2012.\n\nIn 2010, TriMet converted eight automobile parking spaces to a secure bicycle parking area, opening in July of that year. The bicycle parking cage was built at a cost of $275,000, using federal economic-stimulus funding, and has a capacity of 74 bicycles. As of April 2011, its usage was averaging 1.2 bicycles per day, with an observed maximum of seven bicycles. TriMet closed the MAX station platforms on September 3, 2014 in order to replace the platforms, with trains passing through but not stopping during the closure period. The station reopened on September 17, two days ahead of schedule.\n\nOn October 24, 2016, POINT began serving the transit center with its Portland–Astoria service, four times a day (twice a day in each direction).\n\nThis station by Sunset Highway (U.S. 26) is served by the following bus lines:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1885887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885887", "title": "Seni rebab", "text": "Seni rebab\n\nThe Seni rebab (Punjabi: ਸੇਨੀ ਰੱਬਾਬ) is a plucked string instrument said to have been developed by, and to have taken its name from, the notable musician Tansen in the time of the emperor Akbar the Great. Today it is most associated with Sikh music.\n\nThree types of Sikh musician - rababis, ragis and dhadhis - flourished during the period of the Sikh gurus. \n\nGuru Nanak started the rababi tradition by engaging Bhai Mardana as his accompanist. The Muslim singers formerly called mirasis, Nanak called \"rababis\", because they played on the rabab or rebec. Some notable rababis after Mardana were his son Shahjada, Balwand and Satta, Babak, son of Satta, Chatra, son of Babak, and Saddu and Baddu. Rababis used to perform kirtan regularly at Amritsar before the partition in 1947, after which the rababis migrated to Pakistan.\n\nThe last of the line of rababis was Bhai Chand. During the 20th century CE the instrument's use in Sikh kirtan was eclipsed by the harmonium but it has been revived.\n"}
{"id": "1885888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885888", "title": "Transcript (education)", "text": "Transcript (education)\n\nIn education, a transcript is a certified record (inventory) of a student throughout a course of study having full enrolment history at educational school including all courses (or subjects) attempted, grades earned and awards conferred. There are official transcripts and transcripts which can be made by the student and verified and attested by an authorized person.\n\nA transcript is sometimes referred to as a marksheet, marklist or report card. \n\nIn the United States, a transcript is also called Cumulative Record File (CRF), permanent record, or simply record.\n\nIn the European ECTS system, transcripts are called Transcript of Records (ToR).\n\nIn United States education, a transcript is a copy of a student's permanent academic record, which usually means all courses taken, all grades received, all honors received and degrees conferred to a student from the first day of school to the current school year. A transcript may also contain the number of people in a class, and the average grade of the class. An official transcript is prepared and sent by the issuing school usually by the Student Registrar with an original signature of a school official on the school letterhead and is sealed by the school. When students are thinking about changing schools, the cumulative transcripts get mailed from school to school. Transcripts usually consist of grades 9-12 when applying to colleges. Transcripts are most often issued and used at the high school (grades 9-12) and university levels.\n\nColleges and universities that are owed money by a former student may \"hold\" the transcript until they are paid. This may mean that former student cannot resume their education elsewhere. Many colleges and universities will not allow a prospective student until receiving communication (in the form of a physical stamp or seal) that the prior school is satisfied with its debt collection. If the college or university discovers that an applicant lied on their college application, the college can rescind the offer of admission, can revoke the student's degree, if completed, and refuse the release of that student's transcripts.\n\nIn the European ECTS system, a Transcript of Records (ToR) is used to document the performance of a student over a certain period of time by listing the course units or modules taken, the credits gained, and the grades awarded. The Transcript of Records provides a standard format for recording all study activities carried out by students. It is an essential tool for academic recognition.\n\nTranscript of Records and Diploma Supplements are a fairly recent development in most European countries. Students who obtained academic degrees in Europe prior to the Bologna Process of 1999 typically will not have received transcripts or diploma supplements and they cannot be produced retroactively for these students. Even today there are still European universities that are not ready to issue Transcripts or Diploma Supplements. Unlike in the US, there does not typically exist in Europe a system of schools directly mailing transcripts to other schools, something that also would be problematic in view of European privacy laws.\n\nThe ECTS Transcript of Records, created as part of the Bologna Process, preferably includes, along with the local grades, the ECTS grades of the student. It is used for mobile students at two separate moments. First, it must be issued and sent to the host institution by the home institution for all outgoing students before their departure in order to provide information about the course units/modules that they already have completed and the results obtained. Secondly it must be issued and sent by the host institution to the home institution for all incoming students at the end of their period of study.\n\nTranscript fraud is the alteration of a transcript issued by a legitimate school or university or the forgery of completely fake transcripts. Transcript fraud is a growing problem for both educational institutions and employers. This is related to diploma fraud, which is the forgery of school or university diplomas.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1885890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885890", "title": "Transcript (law)", "text": "Transcript (law)\n\nA transcript is a written record of spoken language. In court proceedings, a transcript is usually a record of all decisions of the judge, and the spoken arguments by the litigants' lawyers. A related term used in the United States is docket, not a full transcript. The transcript is expected to be an exact and unedited record of every spoken word, with each speaker indicated. Such a record was originally made by court stenographers who used a form of shorthand abbreviation to write as quickly as people spoke. Today, most court reporters use a specialized machine with a phonetic key system, typing a key or key combination for every sound a person utters. Many courts worldwide have now begun to use digital recording systems. The recordings are archived and are sent to court reporters or transcribers only when a transcript is requested. Many US transcripts are indexed by Deposition Source so that they may be searched by legal professionals via the Internet. Transcripts may be available publicly or to a restricted group of persons; a fee may be charged.\n\nTranscripts may be produced digitally. Transcripts produced by a digital reporter are often less accurate than those produced by a court stenographer. Only a court stenographer has the ability to control the record and get clarification in real time. \nA transcript is also any written record of a speech, debate or discussion.\n\nRush transcripts are transcript requests that can be processed and mailed, or picked up, within short time of the request (usually 24 hours or less), provided there are no extenuating circumstances (such as unpaid bills). These expedited transcripts normally cost much more than regular transcripts.\n\nSometimes, the first page of a transcript will have the words \"\"Check Against Delivery\"\" stamped across it, which means that the transcript is not the legal representation of the speech, but rather only the audio delivery is regarded as the official record. This is better explained in the French version of the message – \"Seul le texte prononcé fait foi\", literally \"Only the spoken text is faithful\".\n\nConversely, it may be that the actual given speech differs from the way the speaker intended, or that it contains extra information that is not pertinent to the central points of the speech and that the speaker does not want to be left as a permanent record.\n\n"}
{"id": "1885906", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885906", "title": "Beaverton Transit Center", "text": "Beaverton Transit Center\n\nBeaverton Transit Center is a transport hub located in Beaverton, Oregon, United States. Owned and operated by TriMet, it is a bus, commuter rail, and light rail station. The station serves as MAX Light Rail's 14th eastbound stop on the Blue Line and the western terminus of the Red Line. It is also the northern terminus of WES Commuter Rail and a hub for numerous bus routes serving the westside communities of the Portland metropolitan area. The station is situated north of Southwest Canyon Road on Southwest Lombard Avenue in central Beaverton, connected by walkway to Canyon Place Shopping Center. It recorded 9,709 average weekday boardings for all modes in fall 2018, making it TriMet's busiest transit center.\n\nThe first Beaverton Transit Center, which was one of two transit centers built in Beaverton as part of TriMet's Westside Transit Plan, opened near Beaverton–Hillsdale Highway in 1979. The second and current facility, relocated farther north from its previous site, opened on September 4, 1988, for bus service. With the completion of the Westside MAX project, which extended light rail service from downtown Portland to Beaverton and Hillsboro, its light rail platforms opened on September 12, 1998. Initially served only by the Blue Line, Red Line service from Portland International Airport was extended to the transit center on September 1, 2003. The newest addition to Beaverton Transit Center is a commuter rail platform served by WES Commuter Rail, which opened on February 2, 2009.\n\nThe first Beaverton Transit Center opened at a different location from the current facility, about to the south on Lombard Avenue and Broadway Street near Beaverton–Hillsdale Highway; there were timed transfer connections among the several bus routes serving it. It, along with Cedar Hills Transit Center, was one of two major transfer points in Beaverton introduced as part of TriMet's Westside Transit Plan. The $1.3 million plan, which consisted of new and modified bus routes within the Portland area's westside suburbs of Washington County and between those areas and downtown Portland, commenced service on June 17, 1979.\n\nA second plan, proposed that same year, initiated discussions of a busway or light rail line between downtown Portland and Beaverton, with potential extensions to Hillsboro and Tigard. In preparation for what would become the Westide MAX project, city planners began considering the transit center's relocation in February 1982. TriMet studied three site proposals, which included an expansion of the existing location on Lombard and Broadway streets, a triangle-shaped area occupied by existing establishments between Hall and Watson streets, and of undeveloped land on Canyon Road and Hall Boulevard. Planners selected the third option in September.\n\nConstruction of the replacement station, initially targeted to begin in the summer of 1987, was delayed after the discovery of an illegal land fill at the site. It was discovered that the property had been a wetland originally. This prevented the issuance of a U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (USACE) permit. Preliminary work finally started in October 1987, after the USACE deemed that \"public interest\" outweighed the environmental losses and issued the permit. Urban Mass Transportation Administration funds covered 80 percent of the project's $2 million budget. Although the station was initially built as another bus-only transit center, plans reserved an area for future light rail platforms. The second Beaverton Transit Center opened on September 4, 1988.\n\nIn 1993, TriMet began construction of the Westside MAX extension, to connect the transit center to light rail. During planning, Beaverton officials declined to build a park and ride facility near the transit center, stating that one of the goals of the light rail project was to reduce auto congestion in central Beaverton. Its MAX platforms opened on September 12, 1998, at the same time as most of the extension. Between 1998 and 2001, TriMet operated only one MAX service, which ran the entire length of existing tracks from Hillsboro through downtown Portland to Gresham. That service was renamed the Blue Line in 2001 following the completion of the Airport MAX project, which introduced the Red Line to Portland International Airport. Originally, westbound Red Line trains only ran up to the Library and Galleria stations in downtown Portland, where they turned around at the 11th Avenue loop tracks. On September 1, 2003, TriMet extended Red Line service up to Beaverton Transit Center, its present western terminus.\n\nProposals for connecting Beaverton and Wilsonville by commuter rail emerged in 1996. The committee studying the rail plan examined two options for the line's northern terminus: Beaverton Transit Center and Merlo Road/Southwest 158th Avenue station. A revised plan selected a shorter route to Beaverton Transit Center in 2000. After several years of delays due to a lack of funding, a platform for the WES Commuter Rail line began construction at the southern end of the transit center in 2006. Regular service on the WES line commenced on February 2, 2009.\n\nBeaverton Transit Center serves the central Beaverton area. The station is located north of Southwest Canyon Road, bounded by Southwest Lombard Avenue to the west and Beaverton Creek to the south. It is connected by walkway to Canyon Place Shopping Center to the east. A bus-only loop occupies the majority of the station; it contains nine bus bays. A structure at the center of the loop houses a concession stand. The MAX station, designed by OTAK, Inc., is situated in the northwest. It consists of two side platforms and one island platform, served by three tracks. The outer tracks are used by the Blue Line, while the middle track is used by the Red Line. A 15-minute drop off area containing several parking spaces occupies the edge of the western MAX platform. The WES side platform sits on the southeastern edge of the station, which is served by a single-track railway. All of the station's rail platforms feature ticket vending machines and passenger information displays. The station has a total of 136 bicycle parking spaces of which 76 are inside a secure bike and ride facility.\n\nThe MAX station's original shelter featured \"whimsical photographic portraits of passengers\" and images of local landmarks. These photos were captured by students Katie O'Malley and Petra Prostrednik of Beaverton's Arts and Communications High School. They were led by design team artist Richard Turner and photographer Barbara Turner, who came up with the project as a way of giving the students hands-on experience in designing and implementing a public art project. In 1994, artist Christopher Rauschenberg photographed the station's site prior to the start of construction. This image was etched onto the station's windscreen. It is described as a way to \"document the past as the areas change and grow and [to] offer a comparison with the landscape of the future.\"\n\nAn interactive sculpture created by Frank Boyden and Brad Rude, titled \"The Interactivator\", sits on the WES platform. It features 16 movable bronze heads and a vehicle mounted on a stainless steel table. Designed to represent the train and the variety of people who ride the line, the sculptures serve as a \"metaphor for the human experience.\"\n\nBeaverton Transit Center is TriMet's busiest transit center with 9,709 total weekday boardings for all modes in September 2018. It is currently the only transit center in the network served by both MAX Light Rail and WES Commuter Rail.\n\nOn MAX Light Rail, Beaverton Transit Center is situated between Beaverton Central station and Sunset Transit Center and is served by the Blue Line and the Red Line. The Blue Line connects the station westbound to downtown Hillsboro and eastbound through Portland to Gresham. It is the western terminus of the Red Line, which runs from Beaverton through Portland to Portland International Airport. The MAX station recorded 4,554 average weekday boardings in fall 2018, the second-busiest in the system after Gateway/Northeast 99th Avenue Transit Center. Trains serve the station for approximately 22 hours from Monday to Thursday; they run slightly later on Fridays and Saturdays and end earlier on Sundays. Headways measure from as little as five minutes during weekday rush hour up to 30 minutes in the early mornings and late evenings; the majority of trains run every fifteen minutes.\n\nThe first train arrives eastbound, operating as a Red Line service to Portland International Airport station. The first westbound train, which is served by the Blue Line and runs to Hatfield Government Center station. Trains take approximately 25 minutes to reach Pioneer Square in downtown Portland, 30 minutes to downtown Hillsboro, 65 minutes to Portland International Airport, and 75 minutes to Gresham. The last eastbound and westbound trains are Blue Line services.\n\nBeaverton Transit Center is the northern terminus of WES Commuter Rail, which connects it to the cities of Tigard, Tualatin, and Wilsonville. The next station southbound is . WES operates only on weekdays during the morning and evening commutes. Trains run approximately every 30 minutes during service hours.\n\nA majority of the bus routes serving Beaverton Transit Center serve the westside communities of Washington County and downtown Portland. An exception to this is route 20–Burnside/Stark, which runs east across the Willamette River to Gresham. , the following TriMet bus lines serve the transit center:\n\nIn August 2013, Wilsonville's South Metro Area Regional Transit (SMART) began operation of its route 8X, an express bus route connecting Beaverton Transit Center with SMART's Wilsonville Transit Center with only one scheduled trip per day in each direction, in the early morning and late evening. In October 2014, the late-night route was changed to one going via downtown Portland to Beaverton Transit Center and numbered 9X. These routes were intended to provide some service at times when the WES commuter rail line does not operate (during rush hours, WES connects the same two points; the SMART transit center is at WES's Wilsonville station). The service was discontinued in September 2016.\n"}
{"id": "1885912", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885912", "title": "Sørvágur", "text": "Sørvágur\n\nSørvágur () is a village on the island of Vágar in the Faroe Islands.\n\nIt is located at the landward end of Sørvágsfjørður. Sørvágur is the largest village in Sørvágur Municipality.\n\nThe name Sørvágur translates to \"The Bay of Sør\". While the second half of the name makes sense given the fact that the village is located at a bay, the first half is more mysterious. Legend has it that the first man to settle at this place was called 'Sørli' and hence the village was named in honour of him. Another explanation on the origin of 'Sør' comes from the old-Norse 'Seyr' which is a word for sand (seyr is also a word for foggy rain). Sørvágur has quite a large sandbeach in comparison with other Faroese villages and towns, and therefore it was speculated that the original name of Sørvágur was \"Seyrvágur\", and during the course of time, Seyrvágur became Sørvágur. During the first half of the 20th century local people in Sørvágur tried to correct this historical injustice and used the name Seyrvágur instead of Sørvágur. However, this trend died out again. One reason may be that there is no proof in the Faroese historical records that justifies the name Seyrvágur.\n\nAs of today (2005) nobody has come up with at reasonable explanation to the origin of the name Sørvágur.\n\nSørvágur is considered to be one of the oldest villages in the Faroe Islands. In 1957 the locals decided to build a new school, and during the preparations to build the schools gymnastic hall they excavated an old Viking settlement. Sørvágur – alongside Leirvík, Tjørnuvík and Sandur – is in one of the few places in the Faroe Islands where archaeologists have been able to find substantial proof that these places were built during the first 100-150 years after the Faroese Landnám in 825.\n\nEven though the village is old, there is no mention of it, or the island of Vágoy, in the old Faeringa Saga from the thirteenth century.\n\nBetween the years of 1200 and 1400 the village moved from its first settlements alongside the river Hanusará and further south between the rivers of Stórá and Kirkjuá. Historical records from 17th century show, that the original settlement alongside Hanusará was abandoned, and the village was moved firmly to the new location between the two main rivers in Sørvág. The main reason for this was probably that the weather conditions between the two rivers are far superior to other places in Sørvág.\n\nThe first written record regarding Sørvág is from 1584. The record shows that there were only three small farms in Sørvág at that time. This coincides very well with the fact, that the land belonging to Sørvág is divided into three parts: Suðurtriðingur, Norðurtriðingur and Úttriðingur.\n\nFrom the 15th century to the late 17th century the Norwegian nobles the Benkenstock family owned all the land in Sørvág. Around 1665 a Dane – Severin Fohrman – bought all the land from the Benkenstock's and immediately started to sell it back to the locals. This meant that almost all the land in Sørvág is private property (\"óðalsjørð\") instead of belonging to the king (\"kongsjørð\").\n\nUsing the Land Books (\"jarðarbøkur\") it is speculated, that the number of inhabitants in Sørvág in the 17th century was around fifty. In the first census in the Faroes in 1801 the number of inhabitants in Sørvág had risen to a mere 86. In 1855 the number of inhabitants was 163. The reason for this slow progress is due to the special requirements for marriage, that were law in the Faroes. The law said, that in order to marry you would need to own land or have demonstrated that you were a faithful servant to someone who owned land. It was only the wealthy farmers who had a substantial amount of land, and therefore the birthrate in the Faroes was very low until this law was abolished.\n\nDuring the feudal period, it was only the big farmers who had a fishing boat. The first person in the Faroes, who did not own any land, and got his own fishing boat, came from Sørvág. His name was Gamli Dávur.\n\nDuring the Sloop period Sørvágur had many sloops.\n\nThe church in Sørvágur is from 1886.\n\nThe first fish factory in the Faroe Islands was built in Sørvágur in 1952.\n\nThe locals from Sørvágur formed a part of the backbone of fishermen, who went to Greenland to fish. Faroese fishermen were instrumental in teaching the inhabitants of Greenland to do deepsea fishing.\n\nIn the period 1902-1912, there was a whaling station in the nearby bay of Selvík\n\nDuring World War II Sørvágur was home to the British Royal Engineers, who lived at Uppi á Mýrum. They built all the main infrastructure in Sørvágur including Vágar Airport, the harbour in Sørvág, Niðaraveg (the main road to the harbour) and several bridges. To accomplish this they had to move entire houses to other locations.\n\nDistricts (\"býlingar\") in Sørvág:\n\nVágar has colder and snowier winters than most other places in the archipelago. Lower temperatures combined with higher precipitation are responsible for this, and measurable snow cover can be seen- a rarity in the Faroe Islands, in which snow cover (in areas which regularly experience it) is usually limited to a thin coating. The airport, at which data is recorded, is also located at a higher altitude on the island (84 meters above sea level), which might result in lower temperatures and higher precipitation than lower-lying areas on the island. Frost occurs on average on 62 days of the year, the most out of all stations included in the records of the Danish Meteorological Institute.\nSee also:\n\nSmall and big rivers in Sørvág (note: rivers in the Faroe Islands may be considered a mere stream in other places):\n\nMountains surrounding Sørvág:\n\n\nValleys in and around Sørvág:\n\n\nMajor bays:\n\n\nOther landmarks:\n\n\nSørvágur has always been a place where fishery has been very dominant. In older times it was said, that the only thing necessary for survival in Sørvágur was that you had a fishing rod and a pot to cook the fish. The fishing industry also plays a vital role in the industrial environment in Sørvágur today (2005). Today there is a modern fish factory producing mainly salt fish; a fish farm raising salmon; one fish market; one major fish factory ship, which produces fish directly to the British market; 6 smaller fishing trawlers and 50+ small fishing boats.\n\nThe Vágar Airport is the only airport on the Faroe Islands, and it is located just outside Sørvágur. Many residents of Sørvágur work there.\n\nAfter the Royal Monopoly trade over the Faroe Islands ended in 1856, everyone was able to start trading on their own. This led to an upsurge in colonial shops opening all over the place. In Sørvágur many colonials were started and one of the leading concerns on the Faroe Islands - Niclasen - was started in Sørvágur. During the transformation of the Faroese society from a feudal to a semi-industrial these concerns played a major role in ensuring labour to the common man. The main colonial in Sørvágur - Norði Stovu handilin - was originally started by the Niclasen concern. The other colonial - Løðuhandilin - was started by the rival concern in Sørvágur - Rasmussen. These two colonials are the only two remaining in Sørvágur today (2005).\nNorði Stovu handilin is better known under the name \"Hjá Valdemar\" and today it also contains a bakery.\n\nAt the harbour in Sørvágur lies a hardware store - Hjá Niclasen - which also used to form a part of the Niclasen concern. Also placed in the proximity of the harbour lies a Statoil tank station which is run by the Niclasen concern. The tank station also includes a kiosk and grill.\n\nOther shops in Sørvágur:\n\n\nThe faroese banks Føroya Banki and Eik Banki are present in Sørvágur. There are two automatic teller machines, one at Vágar Airport and the other at Eik Banki.\n\nIn close proximity to the airport lies a hotel with restaurant - \"Hotel Vágar\". The hotel is a modern 3 star hotel.\nDuring the summer tourist are able to make excursions in boats from Sørvágur . Tourists are also able to make excursions on Sørvágsvatn.\nThere is a local museum is in Sørvágur and a small art gallery \n\n\n\nThe local sport association of Sørvágur is called SÍ. They compete mainly in football and volleyball. The football club of Sørvágur has merged with the club from other villages on the island into the football club 07 Vestur.\n\nThere has also been an association for Faroese rowing called SR.\n\nThere used to be a chess club called \"Rókur\", but it died out during the 1960s.\n\nReligion plays a great role in the day-to-day life in Sørvágur. There are two main buildings – apart from the church – housing two different religious denominations: Libanon houses the Protestant \"Heimamissiónin\", and Kedron houses the Brethren/baptist \"Brøðrasamkoman\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1885914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885914", "title": "Calopogon oklahomensis", "text": "Calopogon oklahomensis\n\nCalopogon oklahomensis, commonly known as the Oklahoma grass pink or prairie grass pink, is a terrestrial species of orchid native to the United States, restricted to the states of Alabama, Arkansas, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Louisiana, Minnesota, Mississippi, Missouri, Oklahoma, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, and Wisconsin and is extirpated (locally extinct) throughout most of its range. It has flowers that are white, pink or purple, with a labellum with an apical region of yellow hairs. It was described by Douglas H. Goldman in 1995.\n\n"}
{"id": "1885915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885915", "title": "Walkin' My Baby Back Home (song)", "text": "Walkin' My Baby Back Home (song)\n\n\"Walkin' My Baby Back Home\" is a popular song written in 1930 by Roy Turk (lyrics) and Fred E. Ahlert (music). It first charted in 1931 with versions by Nick Lucas (#8), Ted Weems (also #8), The Charleston Chasers (#15), and Lee Morse (#18).\n\nA recording made by Jo Stafford on November 9, 1945, was released by Capitol Records as catalog number 20049, and on her album, \"Songs by Jo Stafford\" (catalog number B-D23).\n\nHarry Richman recorded the song on November 4, 1947. This version was released by Decca Records as catalog number 24391.\n\nA major hit version of it was recorded by Nat King Cole, on September 4, 1951 and released by Capitol Records as catalog number 2130. It went to #8 in 1952. The song charted again in 1952 at #4 in a version recorded in February 1952 by Johnnie Ray, released by Columbia Records as catalog number 39750. Ray's version peaked at number 12 in the UK Singles Chart in November 1952. It was the title song from the 1953 film starring Donald O'Connor, Janet Leigh, Buddy Hackett, and Scatman Crothers. In the film the song was performed by O'Connor.\n\nIn 1962, Monica Zetterlund with Georg Riedel's Orchestra recorded a version of this song with Swedish lyrics by Beppe Wolgers entitled \"Sakta vi gå genom stan\" (lit. \"Slowly we walk through the city\"). It is a subtle tribute to Stockholm, and has in recent years been voted the most popular song about the Swedish capital (in a poll by Radio Stockholm). Zetterlund has had a Stockholm park named after her.\nThe song was released on the Philips label.\n\nIn 1967, Ronnie Dove covered the song for his album Cry.\n\nIn the opening of the 2002 TV film \"Martin and Lewis\", Dean Martin (played by Jeremy Northam) performs the song at the Riobamba Club in New York City. \n\nIn 2008, Natalie Cole recorded the song as a virtual duet with her father and it was the first single for her album \"Still Unforgettable\", released on September 9, 2008.\n\nElvis Costello (with acoustic guitar) performed a version as an encore in his Auckland, New Zealand concert, January 19, 2013 and in Troy, New York on November 6, 2013.\n\n"}
{"id": "1885922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885922", "title": "James Read", "text": "James Read\n\nJames Christopher Read (born July 31, 1953) is an American actor. He played the role of George Hazard in the \"North and South\" television miniseries, and had a recurring role as Victor Bennett on the supernatural series \"Charmed\" between 2001 and 2006.\n\nRead was born in Buffalo, New York. He started acting as a student of law at the University of Oregon where he graduated in 1976. He studied acting in New York City and then did several off Broadway and regional theatres such as \"The Denver Center Theatre Company\", where he had a couple of leading roles and spent three seasons. In 1998, he earned his Master's degree in psychology from Pepperdine University.\n\nRead is best known for his role as George Hazard in the three \"North and South\" miniseries (1985, 1986 and 1994) based on the John Jakes trilogy of novels of the same name (his co-star, Patrick Swayze, taught him how to ride a horse), and for his co-starring role in the movie \"Beaches\" (1988).\n\nHe had a recurring role on The WB series \"Charmed\" as Victor Bennett and was also a regular during the first season of \"Remington Steele\". Recently, he could be seen as Ken Davis on the ABC family drama \"Wildfire\" and as ambassador Franklin Fairchild on the 2010 television series \"Persons Unknown\". In 2008, he directed an episode of \"Wildfire\". In 2009, he performed in \"Better Angels\" as Abraham Lincoln at the Colony Theatre in Burbank, California. Since 2014, he has played the role of drug lord Clyde Weston on the soap opera \"Days of Our Lives\". On May 30, 2018, Michael Fairman TV and Soap Opera Digest announced Read joined the ABC Daytime soap opera \"General Hospital\" on June 6, 2018, as Gregory Chase.\n\nRead married his first wife Lora Lee in June 1978, and the marriage ended in divorce in 1983. He married his second wife former actress/attorney Wendy Kilbourne in 1988, and the couple have three children; a son Jackson (b. 1990) and two daughters Willa (b. 1994) and Sydney (b. 1995). The family resides in Santa Barbara, California.\n"}
{"id": "1885927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885927", "title": "Hatfield Government Center station", "text": "Hatfield Government Center station\n\nHatfield Government Center station is a light rail station on the MAX Blue Line in downtown Hillsboro, Oregon, United States. The station is the 20th stop westbound on the Westside MAX, and the western terminus of the MAX Blue Line route. Opened in 1998, it is located in the same block as the Hillsboro Post Office and adjacent to the Washington County Courthouse and the Hillsboro Civic Center. The block is bounded by First and Adams streets on the east and west and Washington and Main streets on the south and north. The station is named in honor of Mark O. Hatfield, a former United States Senator from Oregon and light rail proponent.\n\nConstruction of the Westside MAX project began in 1993. In November 1996, Hillsboro and TriMet named the yet-to-be-completed station at the western end of the project as the Mark O. Hatfield Government Center Station. Hatfield was retiring from 30 years as U.S. Senator and previously used his political clout as Chairman of the Senate Appropriations Committee to ensure funding for the project. In June 1998, after completion of the station but prior to its opening, government officials held a dedication ceremony at the station. Hatfield, who had by then retired, was in attendance as the station was officially dedicated in his honor.\nOn September 12, 1998, Hatfield Government Station opened along with the Westside MAX line. Dedication ceremonies for the line at the station included a speech by then U.S. Vice President Al Gore and U.S. Transportation Secretary Rodney E. Slater. Oregon politicians speaking at the dedication included Governor John Kitzhaber, former Congressman Les AuCoin, then Congresswoman Elizabeth Furse, U.S. Senators Ron Wyden and Gordon Smith, and former Senator and station namesake Mark Hatfield. Scheduled train service began at 11:00 a.m., which was followed by a two-day opening party.\n\nThe station was the busiest stop on the Westside line by 1999 with an average of 3,005 daily boardings. In March 2008, TriMet added additional capacity during the morning and evening commuting period. This was accomplished by extending three Red Line trains from the Beaverton Transit Center stop each morning and evening during peak ridership times.\n\nLocated at the Hatfield Government Center station is a parking garage for park-and-ride passengers. The garage includes 250 parking spaces accessible 24-hours a day. The stop is compliant with the Americans with Disabilities Act, contains bike racks and bike lockers, and has an electronic reader board listing up-to-date arrivals of trains.\n\nHatfield Government Center is part of TriMet's Blue Line and has three sets of tracks and three platforms. One track is only used when passenger demand is high. The central island platform includes a covered shelter, and each platform has ticket vending machines. The parking structure is located across Washington Street, to the south.\n\nThe north end of the station features a light-red brick and green-roof building that contains space for use by the train and bus operators. The building is postmodern in style and includes rose windows, false chimneys, and gables. The entire station was designed by the architectural firm OTAK Inc. and also includes an electrical substation. Hatfield's name is etched in the façade of the main station building in stone.\n\nTrains lay over at this station to reverse and go eastward to Beaverton, Portland, and Gresham. Development built near the station includes many civic and Washington County offices. Near the station is the Washington County Sheriff's office, the county jail, the courthouse, the Hillsboro Civic Center, and other government offices. Retail shops are located at street level in the parking structure. Portland Community College's Hillsboro Education Center is also housed in the street level space at the garage.\n\nAs with all the stops on the Westside MAX, displays of public artwork were included in the construction of the stop. Overall the artwork at the station reflects the gathering and dispersal of people and the harvest. Christine Bourdette, a sculptor, working with the architects from OTAK designed some of the artwork at Hatfield Station. Described as a \"clash of sensibilities\" and \"organically abstract\", items include sculptures of bronze baskets and granite balls installed at the southern end of the station. Attached to the station's building is a bronze work entitled \"Gathering Rail\" which resembles twine woven together and is intended to represent the various themes of the community coming together.\n\nOther station artwork includes a three-part bronze plaque featuring Hatfield's face in relief and other images representing the entire Blue line. Designed by graphic artist Elizabeth Anderson and sculpted by Bill Bane, the other images are the Robertson Tunnel that runs through the West Hills, Mount Hood, the Oregon Convention Center, and the Steel Bridge. On the roof of the passenger shelter is a wind vane designed by artist Miles Pepper. Representing agriculture, the design includes an abstract scarecrow, crows on the corners of the roof, and a portion that extends into the shelter that displays a seed, all moving with the wind.\n\n"}
{"id": "1885928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885928", "title": "Simon Townsend", "text": "Simon Townsend\n\nSimon Townsend (born 27 November 1945) is an Australian journalist who became a popular television host during the 1980s. He is now retired.\n\nIn the mid-1960s whilst living in Woy Woy and working as a columnist for a community paper he became a conscientious objector against the Vietnam War.\n\nHe gained national prominence on his anti-conscription stance, he said, \"I suddenly decided to be a . . . objector to the Vietnam War. I then went to Sydney, I met people, I joined the groups and I read. And suddenly I had an intellectual basis for my objection to the Vietnam War. And that was when I got very busy, objecting, going to court and I ended up in Long Bay Gaol for a month. And in 1968 I ended up in the army prison for a month. I was court-martialled while I was there.\"\n\nTownsend is best remembered in Australia as the host and producer of the popular children's show, \"Simon Townsend's Wonder World\".\n\nIn 1993, he hosted a show on the Australian Broadcasting Corporation called \"TVTV\". It contained a mixture of interviews with television personalities promoting their shows and reviews of television shows new to the screen. Presenters of this show were Edith Bliss (who worked previously on \"Wonder World\"), and musician James Valentine formerly of the band, Models and Townsend.\n\nHe has also appeared on a celebrity version of Sale of the Century.\n\nIn recent years, Townsend has suffered three strokes. In August 2005, he told ABC TV he feared the next stroke might kill him.\n\nTownsend is the father of actress Nadia Townsend, who appeared on Channel 7's \"City Homicide\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1885931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885931", "title": "Hillsboro Central/Southeast 3rd Avenue Transit Center", "text": "Hillsboro Central/Southeast 3rd Avenue Transit Center\n\nHillsboro Central/Southeast 3rd Avenue Transit Center is a light rail station and transit center on the MAX Blue Line in Hillsboro, Oregon. Opened in 1998, the red-brick station is the 19th stop westbound on the Westside MAX, one stop from the western terminus of the line. Physically the largest station on the line, it is located at a former stop of the Oregon Electric Railway and includes artwork honoring the history of the community.\n\nConstruction of the Westside MAX project began in 1994, while construction on the Hillsboro Central station was completed in August 1998, with a ceremony held on August 13. On September 12, 1998, Hillsboro Central opened along with the Westside MAX line. By 1999, the station was the third busiest on the westside line.\n\nIn 2000, a plaque honoring former Hillsboro mayor Shirley Huffman's work getting the westside MAX extended from 185th Avenue to downtown Hillsboro was added to the station. Huffman lobbied federal officials to extend the line into downtown Hillsboro, including lecturing the Federal Transit Administration's leader. When Hillsboro Central opened, the Hillsboro Public Library operated a small branch at the station called Books by Rail, which was the only library on the West Coast located at a mass transit station. Because of budget cuts in the library system, the branch was closed in June 2003; in October 2003 TriMet began letting the Hillsboro Police Department use the space for its bicycle patrol. In March 2011, TriMet received a federal grant to pay for the installation of security cameras at the station.\n\nLocated on Southeast Washington Street between Third and Fourth avenues in downtown Hillsboro, the station is decorated with dark red bricks. Overhead is a steep-pitched roof, with the station's floor in the vestibule built of concrete planks in homage to the cedar-planked roads that formerly existed in the town. Designed by the architectural firm OTAK Inc., the station is the largest of the MAX stations on the westside line as it extends most of the length of the block between Third and Fourth avenues. Hillsboro Central sits on the same site of the old Oregon Electric Railway station for the Hillsboro area and has a station building that is designed to look like an old railroad station with features similar to those at a Grand Central Station type of facility.\n\nOther features include false chimneys and copper roofing on the main building that serves as the passenger shelter for people waiting for buses or westbound MAX trains. There is also a passenger cover on the single island platform between the two tracks and an additional cover for waiting bus passengers. Hillsboro Central has bike lockers and is handicapped-accessible, but does not have a park-and-ride lot. The station is a hub for bus services in Hillsboro and connections to Cornelius and Forest Grove to the west. This station is served by the following bus lines: 46-North Hillsboro, 47-Main/Evergreen, 48-Cornell, and 57-TV Hwy/Forest Grove.\n\nA variety of public artwork adorns the brick station. The collective works, entitled Niches, are a montage of the everyday lives of residents. Inspiration and materials for the artwork were collected from the Washington County Museum, the Washington County Fair, and the Oregon Historical Society. Bill Will, Fernanda D'Agostino, Valerie Otani, and Jerry Mayer were the artists responsible for the theme at the station.\n\nItems include granite pavers that have memories of past Hillsboro citizens carved into the stone and photographs etched onto glass. Photographs range from pioneer times to life in the 1990s. There are also letters etched in glass from people such as Albert E. Tozier, Robert Summer, Chavela Mendoza, Lester C. Mooberry, Mary Ramsey Wood, George Iwasaki, and Howard Vollum. Gunfights, hangings, funerals, the internment of Japanese Americans during World War II, the Great Depression, and an outbreak of diphtheria in the 1890s are among the events represented. More recent photographs show the defunct Oregon Electric Railway, which the westside line often uses the old right-of-way of the former line, and employees at Intel dressed in cleanroom suits.\n\nAlso on display is a burden basket created by basketmaker Sophie George in the design of the baskets used by the Kalapuya, the Native American tribe that formerly inhabited the Tualatin Valley. As few members of the Kalapuya remain and none had the knowledge of how to make the basket, George visited the British Museum to find an example of a basket in order to design the replica. A bronze cast was created and is displayed at Hillsboro Central. The station also includes a weather vane, one of a series of eight on the Westside MAX. Designed by Keith Jellum and located on the roof of the station building, the vane resembles old train signals. Constructed of bronze, the semaphore signals stop and approach.\n\nThe transit center is served by the following bus lines:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1885935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885935", "title": "Gevurah", "text": "Gevurah\n\nGevurah or geburah (), is the fifth \"sephirah\" in the kabbalistic tree of life, and it is the second of the emotive attributes of the \"sephirot\". It sits below Binah, across from Chesed, and above Hod.\n\nGevurah is \"the essence of judgment (DIN) and limitation\", and corresponds to awe and the element of fire. \n\nIn the Bahir it is written \"And who are the Officers? We learned that there are three. Strength (Gevurah) is the Officer of all the Holy Forms to the left of the Blessed Holy One. He is Gabriel.\"\n\nGevurah is associated with the color red.\n\nGevurah is the fifth of the ten Sefirot, and second of the emotive attributes in Creation, and which corresponds to the second day of creation (Zohar 2:127b). In the Bahir it says \"What is the fifth (utterance)? Fifth is the great fire of God, of which it says 'let me see no more of this great fire, lest I die' (Deut 18:16). This is the left hand of God\".\n\nGevurah is understood as God's mode of punishing the wicked and judging humanity in general. It is the foundation of stringency, absolute adherence to the letter of the law, and strict meting out of justice. This stands in contrast to Chesed.\n\nWe thus speak of God's primary modes of action as being the kindness and unaccountability of Chesed, versus the stringency and strict accountability of Gevurah. It is called \"might\" because of the power of God's absolute judgment.\n\nGevurah is associated in the soul with the power to restrain one's innate urge to bestow goodness upon others, when the recipient of that good is judged to be unworthy and liable to misuse it. As the force which measures and assesses the worthiness of Creation, Gevurah is also referred to in Kabbalah as \"Midat Hadin\" (\"the attribute of judgment\"). It is the restraining might of Gevurah which allows one to overcome his enemies, be they from without or from within (his evil inclination).\n\nThe angelic order of this sphere is the Seraphim, ruled by the Archangel Kamael. The opposing Qliphah is represented by the demonic order Golachab, ruled by the Archdemon Asmodeus.\n\nChesed and Gevurah act together to create an inner balance in the soul's approach to the outside world. While the \"right arm\" of Chesed operates to draw others near, the \"left arm\" of Gevurah reserves the option of repelling those deemed undeserving. (Even towards those to whom one's initial relation is that of \"the left arm repels\", one must subsequently apply the complementary principle of \"the right arm draws near\".)\n\nUltimately, the might of Gevurah becomes the power and forcefulness to implement one's innate desire of Chesed. Only by the power of Gevurah is Chesed able to penetrate the coarse, opposing surface of reality. The Baal Shem Tov discusses the ability of Gevurah to effect Divine withdrawal (Tzimtzum), which in turn creates the potential for Chesed to occur in creation (commentary to Parshat Toldot).\n\nGevurah appears in the configuration of the Sefirot along the left axis, directly beneath Binah, and corresponds in the tzelem Elokim to the \"left arm\".\n\nThe numerical value of Gevurah, 216, is 6 times 6 times 6. The tablets of the covenant that Moses received at Sinai were 6 by 6 by 3 handbreadths. The Torah was given to Moses and Israel from \"the Mouth of the Gevurah\". It is most significant that the name of no other Sefirah is used by our sages to connote God Himself, other than Gevurah (in the Bible, God is referred to as \"the Netzach [eternity] of Israel\" (Samuel 1 15:29), but not as Netzach alone). Here, Gevurah implies God's essential power to contract and concentrate His infinite light and strength into the finite letters of Torah (especially those engraved on the tablets of the covenant, the Ten Commandments).\n\nGevurah = 216 = 3 times 72 (chesed). Each of God's 72 hidden names possesses three letters, in all 216 letters. Meaning inheres to words and names. The ultimate \"meaning\" of every one of God's Names is His expression of love (Chesed) for His Creation. Each Name expresses His love in a unique way. The components of each word and name, the \"building blocks\" of Creation are the letters which combine to form the words. The letters, \"hewn\" from the \"raw material\" of \"pro-creation\" (the secret of the reshimu, the \"impression\" of God's infinite light which remains after the initial act of tzimtzum, \"contraction\") reflect God's Gevurah.\n\nThe two hands which act together to form all reality, Chesed (72) plus Gevurah (216) = 288 = 2 times 12 squared. The number of 'Nitzotzot' is 288 \"fallen sparks\" (from the primordial cataclysm of \"the breaking of the vessels\"), which permeate all of created reality. Through the \"dual effort\" of Chesed and Gevurah, not only to form reality, but to rectify reality (through the means of \"the left arm repels while the right draws near\"), these fallen sparks are redeemed and elevated to return and unite with their ultimate source. In a universal sense, this is the secret of the coming of Mashiach and the resurrection of the dead.\n\n\"And in Caedmon's time, it became known widely that Gevurah is synonymous with Love, and wise men strove to know Gevurah to build solutions that would keep their fellow men from death.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1885938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885938", "title": "Tuality Hospital/Southeast 8th Avenue station", "text": "Tuality Hospital/Southeast 8th Avenue station\n\nTuality Hospital/Southeast 8th Avenue is a light rail station on the MAX Blue Line in Hillsboro, Oregon, United States. Opened in 1998, it is the 18th stop westbound on the Westside MAX. The station has a single island platform with a passenger shelter, with the station primarily serving the Tuality Community Hospital campus.\n\nIn 1994, construction of the Westside MAX project began. On September 12, 1998, the station opened along with the rest of the Westside MAX line. In September 2006, the Pacific University Health Professions Campus opened next to the station. Pacific decided to build the campus there due partly to the presence of the station. Pacific opened a second building in August 2010 while the city, in a joint venture with the hospital and school, opened the Hillsboro Intermodal Transit Facility the following month. In March 2011, TriMet received a federal grant to pay for the installation of security cameras at the station. The MAX station was designed by OTAK Inc.\n\nThe station is located on Southeast Washington Street between Seventh and Eighth avenues. It is one block from Tuality Hospital and one-half block, or about , from the Hillsboro Intermodal Transit Facility (HITF). The station originally did not have any park-and-ride facilities, but in April 2012, 85 spaces in the nearby HITF were designated for park-and-ride use by TriMet riders.\n\nThe public art at the station relates to the hospital, with themes of hope, light, and healing. Individual pieces at the station includes 300 bronze swallows, considered a symbol of hope. Implanted into the concrete, the swallows are accented by a quote from Shakespeare, while swallows also adorn the weather vanes that sit atop the passenger shelter. Other artwork at the Tuality station includes a picture of Minnie Jones Coy (the founder of the hospital) and the \"Quilt of Traditional Remedies\" by Jane Kies. Recipes for old medicinal remedies are etched into the glass windscreen in the passenger shelter, while traditional medicine plants grow around the station.\n\n"}
{"id": "1885939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885939", "title": "Simon Townsend's Wonder World", "text": "Simon Townsend's Wonder World\n\nSimon Townsend's Wonder World! was an Australian children's television show that aired on Network Ten from 1979 until 1987. It was hosted by journalist Simon Townsend.\n\nEach episode of \"Simon Townsend's Wonder World!\" featured an introduction by Townsend as the studio host, accompanied by his pet and companion bloodhound Woodrow (Woodrow died in 1986 and was replaced at first with a sulphur-crested cockatoo and then with a baby Labrador retriever. A competition was run amongst the viewers to name the new puppy and as Townsend had recently won a Logie award, the puppy was named Logie). Townsend would then present four individual magazine-style stories, each presented by a different reporter.\n\nThe stories covered many subjects. Two researchers, two cinematographers, two sound recordists, four reporters and four editors worked on the time equivalent of a feature film every week – about eighty minutes of screen time shot on 16mm reversal film. Stories were not scripted, relying upon the ingenuity of the reporter and the two-person crew.\n\nEvery show also contained a viewer segment, and a music segment – often produced by the program itself. For instance \"Simon Townsend's Wonder World!\" made the first ever music video to feature Australian band INXS. During the course of the series, Townsend and his reporters traveled all over Australia and to many and varied locations in America, the UK, Europe, India, Asia and the Pacific region.\n\nSimon Townsend would always end every show with the same signature farewell – \"And remember, the world really is wonderful!\"\n\nThe program was conceived by Townsend in the early 1970s and was designed to be a fast-moving daily dose of informed entertainment for children, and be suitable for and attractive to older teens and adults.\n\nBoth the Nine and the Seven Networks helped Townsend make pilots for his concept, but neither network bought the series. However, in 1979 when the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal introduced a compulsory 'C' classification (making it a requirement for networks to broadcast only 'C' classified shows between 4pm and 5pm weekdays), Townsend saw the potential and offered the Ten Network, which were searching for a suitable children's program at the time, the opportunity to produce his show.\n\nThe first episode of \"Simon Townsend's Wonder World!\" went to air on 3 September 1979. At first the show was telecast only in the East Coast capital cities of Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane. Before long other capital city and regional stations began signing up for the show.\n\nBy the end of 1980 the show was screening in every TV broadcast region throughout Australia. Soon it became the top-rating program on the Ten Network outside prime time – and sometimes its ratings were better than programs in prime time. For many years the Ten Network ran two episodes of \"Simon Townsend's Wonder World\" every weekday because of its ratings power – an old repeat show at 4pm followed by a new show at 4.30pm.\n\nAfter more than 2,000 episodes, the show finished in 1987.\n\nSimon Townsend was originally keen to use the 1976 Bill Danoff song \"Afternoon Delight\" as the theme song for his afternoon TV show. In fact, this song was used as the opener when the show first went to air. However, when the meaning of the lyrics was pointed out to him, Townsend decided to commission a new and original theme song clearly linked to the eponymous host of the show.\n\nAs a consequence, Townsend hired Australian songwriter/producer Chris Pelcer to write a theme song for \"Simon Townsend's Wonder World!\". John St Peeters sang this original theme. It was arranged and produced by Mike Harvey at EMI Studios Sydney in 1979, and released as a single by RCA that same year. It was simply titled \"Wonder World!\" on the record sleeve. In 1983, Simon decided to re-record this theme song. John St Peeters was by then working in the USA, and unavailable; so Simon cast around for a new voice and eventually settled on up-and-coming female singer, Naomi Louise Warne, who went on to achieve international fame as a blues singer, composer and instrumentalist. Warne's voice and style just edged out Edith Bliss, a reporter on \"Simon Townsend's Wonder World!\" who had released her own songs, possessed a good voice, and was keen to get the gig. Naomi Warne's version of the theme was recorded in 1983 and again released on a record, and was used on the TV show every weekday afternoon for one season, then a new, upbeat re-recording by John St Peeters was used until Simon's show ended in 1987. Six years later, in 1993, the Nine Network decided to re-launch Simon's show with a new host, Liesl Macdonald, followed by Pascall Fox. The title was shortened to \"Wonder World!\", and again ran every weekday afternoon on Nine for the next three years. It also used the same theme music as the original \"Simon Townsend's Wonder World!\" This version was sung by James Morley. At the time, Morley was the Bass Player for \"The Angels\". Simon Townsend is still the rights holder to the theme music and the program format.\n\n\"Simon Townsend's Wonder World!\" won many awards, including five \"LOGIE Awards\", a \"TV Star Award\" and many other trophies, certificates of commendation and popularity prizes. In 1983, Australian Prime Minister Bob Hawke presented Simon Townsend with a special – \"Prime Minister's Award\" trophy, commemorating the milestone of broadcasting the One Thousandth Episode of \"Simon Townsend's Wonder World!\" (as recorded in TV Week, issue of 9 June 1983.) The show still remains the highest rating children's program in Australian TV history.\n\nTownsend was always a great supporter of new Australian talents. Simon's company \"Townsend Entertainments\" gave many people their first opportunity to prove themselves in the entertainment business. For example, \"Townsend Entertainments\" was the first production company in Australia to give a woman, Bronwyn Nicholas, a full-time position as a cinematographer (cinematography having previously been a male domain). Another \"Wonder World!\" cinematographer Andrew Lesnie went on to win an Academy Award for his film work. Many others who are now well known in the film and TV industry got their first break thanks to \"Simon Townsend's Wonder World!\". The program's alumni include: Jonathan Coleman, who became a huge star in both Australia and England, Amanda Keller, who also became a very popular local radio and TV personality, Angela Catterns, who became a radio star, and Edith Bliss, who starred in both advertising and music. Philip Tanner and Maurice Parker became top producers, while Tanner and Brett Clements later made a fortune from board games that were inspired by a \"Wonder World!\" story on \"Crown & Andrews\". Fiona Baker created many hit TV shows (like \"RPA\") for the Nine Network and later for other TV networks, after getting her first job as a researcher on \"Wonder World!\" straight out of university.\n\nThe star reporters on \"Simon Townsend's Wonder World!\", during its seven years on air, included:\n\n\nIn 1992, two of Simon Townsend's former reporters Phillip Tanner and Brett Clements bought the rights to \"Simon Townsend's Wonder World\" and sold the concept to the Nine Network which re-launched the show. The successor's new name was shortened to \"Wonder World!\". The \"Wonder World!\" theme song written for the show at Simon Townsend's request by Australian songwriter/producer Chris Pelcer, remained the show's theme until its final episode.\n\nHarvey Shore was hired to train new reporters and produce the show once again, this time for the Nine Network.\nThe hosts and reporters of this new series were:\n\n\nLater reporters included:\n\nAppearances on the show:\n\nNine’s \"Wonder World!\" began production in 1993, and rated well in its three-year run.\n\n\nhttp://simontownsendjournalism.com\n\n"}
{"id": "1885941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885941", "title": "Tiferet", "text": "Tiferet\n\nTiferet (\"Adornment\", ) alternatively Tifaret, Tifereth, Tyfereth or Tiphereth, is the sixth sefira in the kabbalistic Tree of Life. It has the common association of \"Spirituality\", \"Balance\", \"Integration\", \"Beauty\", \"Miracles\", and \"Compassion\".\n\n\"Tiferet\" means \"glory\" or \"splendour\" in Hebrew.\n\nIn the Bahir it states: \"Sixth is the adorned, glorious, delightful throne of glory, the house of the world to come. Its place is engraved in wisdom as it says 'God said: Let there be light, and there was light.'\" \n\nTiferet is the force that integrates the Sefira of Chesed (\"compassion\") and Gevurah (\"Strength, or Judgment \"(din)\"\"). These two forces are, respectively, expansive (giving) and restrictive (receiving). Either of them without the other could not manifest the flow of Divine energy; they must be balanced in perfect proportion by balancing compassion with discipline. This balance can be seen in the role of Tiferet, wherein the conflicting forces are harmonized, and creation flowers forth. Tiferet also balances Netzach and Hod in a similar manner. In that case Hod can be seen as the intellect where Netzach is seen as emotion.\n\nThe Names of God associated with Tiferet is Tetragrammaton Eloah Va Daath. The Archangel of this sphere is Raphael. Melachim(kings) is the Angelic order associated with Tiferet, and the planetary/astrological correspondence of Tiferet is the sun. The Qliphah of Tiferet is represented by the demonic order Thagirion, ruled by the Archdemon Belphegor. The symbol associated with this sphere is a majestic King.\n\nTiferet also occupies a place on the middle pillar, and can be seen as a lower reflection of Kether, as well as a higher reflection of Yesod and Malkuth. Tiferet relates to the sun, and as such, it takes a central place in the lower face of the Tree of Life, much in the same manner that the sun is at the center of the solar system. It is not the center of the universe, as one could perhaps argue Kether to be, but rather it is the center of our local astronomical system. Nonetheless, it is the sun that gives light and life, even though it did not create itself. Tiferet can be seen as a metaphor for these same attributes.\n\nTiferet is unique amongst the Sephirot as it is connected to all the other Sephirot (except Malkuth) via the subjective paths, be them conscious or less conscious. Its position down the center between Keter and Yesod indicates to many Kabbalists that it is somewhat of a \"converting\" Sephirot between form (Yesod) and force (Keter). In other words, all crossing over the middle path via Tiferet results in a reversed polarity. The law of conservation, valid both for energy and mass, tends to corroborate this – in all cases of energy transmutation, as it may happen in the transmission of gifts and goods from parents to their children, a sacrifice is necessary so a new form may be born.\n\nTiferet is the middle of the tree. Five Sefirot surround it: above are Chesed at the right (south) and Gevurah at the left (north), and below are Netzach at the right, Hod at the left, and Yesod directly below. Together these six are a single entity, \"Zer Anpin\", which is the masculine counterpart of the feminine sefira Malkuth. In certain contexts, Tiferet alone represents all the sefirot of Zer Anpin, so that the entire tree appears with only five sefirot: Keter, Chochmah, Binah, Tiferet, and Malkhut.\n\nIn both the Jewish and Hermetic trees of life, Tiferet has eight paths, leading (counterclockwise) to Keter (through Daat), Binah, Gevurah, Hod, Yesod, Netsach, Chesed, and Chokmah.\n\nTiferet can be also a variation of the word \"Tifarah\" and in Modern Hebrew used in Israel is translated as \"Glory\" (from God – \"Elohim, Adonay)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1885953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885953", "title": "Regions of Djibouti", "text": "Regions of Djibouti\n\nThe regions of Djibouti are the primary geographical divisions through which Djibouti is administered.\n\nThe first administrative division of the territory, in 1914, defined two zones besides the city of Djibouti: the districts \"Dankali\" and \"Issa\". With the occupation of the territory at the end of the 1920s, the circles of Tadjoura and \"Gobad-Dikkil\" are created. In 1939, the circle of Ali Sabieh is extracted from the last. In 1963, Obock's circle was created by division of that of Tadjourah region.\n\nIn 1967, the circle of Djibouti is transformed into district, then divided into three districts.\n\nAfter independence in 1977, the circles become regions. The last important modification of the administrative map of the territory is the creation of the region of Arta in 2003.\n"}
{"id": "1885954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885954", "title": "French submarine Rubis (S601)", "text": "French submarine Rubis (S601)\n\nLe Rubis (S 601 ; ex \"Provence\") is a first-generation nuclear attack submarine and head of the Rubis-class series of the French Navy assigned to the attack nuclear submarine squadron and named after French submarine \"Rubis\" which distinguished capability during World War II.\n\nOriginally namesaked \"Provence\" and was renamed \"Rubis\" on 18 December 1980. Being the lead ship of the class, fine-tuning was long, notably needing over 1000 hours of underwater testing before commissioning. Fielded on December 11, 1976 and launched on July 7, 1979.\n\nThe \"Rubis\" commenced active service on February 23, 1983.\n\nIn 1985 she evacuated three DGSE agents who sailed to New Zealand on the yacht Ouvéa to participate in the bombing of Rainbow Warrior, then scuttled their yacht.\n\nLater in 1991, the \"Rubis\" formed part of the French naval contribution to the Gulf War. Between September 1992 and July 1993, \"Rubis\" undertook a major refitting which upgraded to the level of the \"Améthyste\". Soon after, on 17 July 1993, the \"Rubis\" collided with the tanker \"Lyria\", as the \"Rubis\" was surfacing, causing minor damages and injuries.\n\nThe \"Rubis\" also took part in \"Operation Trident\", the 1999 bombing campaign over Yugoslavia, by protecting the aeronaval group. Along with the \"Améthyste\", the boat was one of the two submarines who interdicted the Kotor straits to the Serbian Navy, thus effectively forbidding its use. The boat also gathered information for the coalition.\n\nIn 2002, the \"Rubis\" protected \"Task Force 473\" in the Indian Ocean, during \"Operation Hercules\", the naval part of the invasion of Afghanistan.\n\nOn 18 July 1996, the fourragère of the \"Ordre de la Libération\" was awarded to the submarine and the crew, as a legacy of the \"Rubis\" of the Second World War, which had been awarded the medal.\n\nOn 30 March 2007, while submerged, \"Rubis\" hit the bottom, damaging her bow and sonar. The boat returned to operations in July 2008.\n\"Rubis\" was expected to be decommissioned in the beginning of 2017 but underwent modernization and has returned to service as of 2019.\n\nSince June 5, 2012, the fanion of \"Rubis\" was decorated with the Cross for Military Valour with one palm.\n\n"}
{"id": "1885957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885957", "title": "Swallow the Sun", "text": "Swallow the Sun\n\nSwallow the Sun is a Finnish metal band founded in 2000 by Juha Raivio. Their death-doom style emphasizes melody and atmosphere, and occasionally steps into gothic and black metal territory. They have released six full-length albums, one triple album, one EP, one demo, and five singles. \n\nSwallow the Sun was formed in early 2000 by Juha Raivio, soon joined by Pasi Pasanen (both had played together in Plutonium Orange). They rehearsed a couple of songs, one of them being \"Through Her Silvery Body\" which would end up on their first demo, \"Out of This Gloomy Light\". In 2001 Markus Jämsen, whom Raivio and Pasanen already knew from their earlier bands, joined as a second guitarist, and Mikko Kotamäki from Funeris Nocturnum as singer; then Aleksi Munter (keyboards) and Matti Honkonen (bass), also of Funeris Nocturnum, joined the band. In the spring of 2002 they started arranging songs for the demo \"Out of This Gloomy Light\" which was recorded in January 2003 at Sam's Workshop with Sami Kokko, who also mixed the demo.\n\nA record deal with Firebox Records was signed a few months after the recordings of the demo, and Swallow the Sun entered studio at late July 2003. During the following three weeks they recorded their debut album, \"The Morning Never Came\".\n\nIn February 2005, Swallow the Sun released their second album, \"Ghosts of Loss\". Their single, \"Forgive Her...,\" gained fourth place on the Finnish Top 20 singles chart in its first week of release, and stayed on the charts for six weeks. Their album entered the charts as well: No. 8 in between Gwen Stefani and System of a Down. Some of the album's songs have connections to the TV show Twin Peaks.\n\nDuring the year 2006 they signed to Spinefarm Records and did a small European tour. In January 2007 they released their third album, \"Hope\", which includes a cover version of the Timo Rautiainen & Trio Niskalaukaus song \"Alavilla mailla\" (which they translated into \"These Low Lands\") as a bonus track on the digipack edition, sung by Tomi Joutsen, the frontman of fellow Finnish metal band, Amorphis. There is also a guest appearance by Jonas Renkse of Katatonia on the song \"The Justice of Suffering.\" They went on a US tour with Katatonia, Scar Symmetry and Insomnium in late 2007.\n\nIn September 2008, they released an EP called \"Plague of Butterflies\", followed by a December tour of the UK of ten live shows supporting Apocalyptica.\n\nOn May 18, 2009 Kai Hahto of Wintersun joined Swallow the Sun to fill the void left by former drummer Pasi Pasanen. Kai Hahto did the drums on their next album, entitled \"New Moon\", Produced by Jens Bogren, the album was released on November 10, 2009.\n\nThe fifth studio album \"Emerald Forest and the Blackbird\" was released February 1, 2012, via Spinefarm Records. The lead single for the album, \"Cathedral Walls\", featured vocals by former Nightwish singer Anette Olzon. The song \"Labyrinth of London\" features guest vocals by Raivio's partner Aleah Stanbridge. \n\nSwallow the Sun released the triple album \"Songs from the North I, II & III\" on November 13, 2015. Each of the three album discs embodies a different facet of the band's style: Gloom, Beauty, and Despair. Juuso Raatikainen replaced Kai Hahto as full-time drummer on this album, as Hahto was working on \"Nightwish\"'s 2015 album Endless Forms Most Beautiful (album) and subsequent tour in place of Jukka Nevalainen. However, Hahto has not been kicked out or resigned.\n\nSwallow the Sun's only non-album single was released on December 21, 2018, titled \"Lumina Aurea\", featuring Wardruna's Einar Selvik and The Foreshadowing's Marco I. Benevento. The track embodies Raivio's bereavement and other emotions he experienced after the death of his partner Aleah Stanbridge in 2016. It contains the title track and additionally an instrumental version of the track.\n\nIn November 2018, the band announced their seventh album, \"When a Shadow Is Forced into the Light\", and its track list on their official Facebook page, to be released on January 25, 2019 through Century Media Records. The album focuses on the death of Raivio's partner Aleah Stanbridge, Raivio's mourning, and his life since Stanbridge's death. The title of the album is a quote by Stanbridge, which was also a lyric in the song \"Broken Mirrors\" by her and Raivio's band Trees of Eternity.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1885958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885958", "title": "The Trumpet of the Swan", "text": "The Trumpet of the Swan\n\nThe Trumpet of the Swan is a children's novel by E.B. White published in 1970. It tells the story of Louis (pronounced \"LOO-ee\" by the author in the audiobook, a reference to trumpeter Louis Armstrong, a point that is made explicit in the book), a trumpeter swan born without a voice who overcomes this difficulty by learning to play a trumpet in order to impress a beautiful swan named Serena.\n\nIn Canada during the spring of 1968, the cob (the name for an adult male swan) and the pen (the name for an adult female swan), both trumpeter swans, build their summer nest on a small island in a pond. The swans are worried when Sam Beaver, an 11-year-old boy on a camping trip with his father, begins coming to the lake everyday to watch them; the cob believes that human boys are dangerous. One day while the pen steps away from her eggs to stretch her legs, a fox slips up behind her. Sam chases the fox away, saving both the female and her eggs. After this incident, the swans begin to trust him. After the hatching of their cygnets, the cob proudly leads his brood to Sam to introduce them. The cygnets each chirp at Sam in greeting, except for the youngest who is named Louis and is unable to chirp but pulls Sam's shoelace instead. The adult swans gradually realize that Louis is mute.\n\nThe adults grow increasingly concerned about Louis, worrying that he will not be able to find a mate if he cannot trumpet like all the other swans. Louis's father promises to find a way for him to communicate. At the end of summer, the swan family flies to the winter refuge, Red Rock Lakes in Montana. Louis decides he should learn to read and write in order to communicate, and flies away from the refuge to visit Sam Beaver. Sam takes his swan friend to school with him the next morning. Louis turns out to be a natural at reading and writing, and Sam buys him a portable blackboard and chalk so he can communicate. Unfortunately, because the other swans cannot read, Louis is still lonely. \n\nWhen Louis returns to the Red Rock Lakes, he falls in love with a young swan, Serena, but cannot attract her attention. Louis's father is aware that trumpeter swans are named after the human musical instrument and becomes determined to acquire a trumpet as a substitute \"voice\" for Louis. The cob crashes through the window of a music store in Billings, Montana and steals a brass trumpet on a cord. By the time Louis learns to effectively play the trumpet, Serena has migrated north. Instead of accompanying his family north where he might have to face Serena again, Louis visits Sam on his ranch and explains that he feels guilty about the stolen trumpet. Sam suggests that Louis should get a job so he can pay the store for the trumpet and the damaged window. He helps Louis find a position as camp bugler at Camp Kookooskoos, the boys' camp Sam attends. Louis convinces Sam to split one of his webbed feet with a razor blade, making \"fingers\" so that he can play more notes.\n\nOver the course of the summer, Louis plays taps, reveille, and mess call, and composes a love song for Serena. He also receives a Lifesaving Medal for rescuing a drowning camper. At the end of the summer, he has earned $100, which he carries in a waterproof pouch around his neck along with his slate, chalk, medal, and trumpet. Sam suggests that Louis can get a job with the Swan Boats in Boston. Louis flies across country and becomes an instant success, with a salary of $100 per week and a private suite in the Ritz Hotel.\n\nA Philadelphia nightclub offers Louis a higher salary, $500 per week. He leaves Boston and takes up temporary residence at the Philadelphia Zoo. The zookeeper promises that because Louis is only a guest, he will not be pinioned (have a wing tip cut off to prevent escape) like all the other swans at the zoo. One stormy night, Serena, blown off course, falls into the Zoo's Bird Lake. Louis serenades her by playing \"Beautiful Dreamer\" on his trumpet, and she falls in love with him, impressed by his song and the numerous possessions hanging around his neck. When the zookeepers spot Serena, they try to clip her wings, and Louis attacks them. He convinces the Head Man to postpone the operation for a short while and sends a telegram to Sam, asking for help. Sam goes to Philadelphia and strikes a deal with the Head Man: in every clutch of cygnets, there is always one that needs special care, just as Louis did in his own family. If the Head Man will let Louis and Serena go free, they will donate one of their cygnets to the zoo every year.\n\nLouis and Serena fly back to the Red Rock Lakes. Now intending to live the rest of his life among other swans, he no longer needs his slate. Louis writes an apology on the slate and gives it and the money bag to his father, who flies back to the music store in Billings. Afraid that the swan will destroy another window, the storekeeper shoots the cob in the shoulder, but is amazed to find the note and the money, which amounts to several times the cost of both the stolen trumpet and the window. Because the cob is a protected species, he is taken to a wildlife veterinarian, where his injury is treated. When he is recovered, he flies back to the Red Rock Lakes to rejoin his family, including Louis and Serena.\n\nMany years later, when Sam is about 20 years old, he is again camping in Canada when he hears the sound of a trumpet playing across the lake and knows it must be Louis. He writes in his journal:\n\n\"\"Tonight I heard Louis's horn. My father heard it, too. The wind was right, and I could hear the notes of taps, just as darkness fell. There is nothing in all the world I like better than the trumpet of the swan.\"\"\n\nThe book received a strongly positive review by John Updike in \"The New York Times\", in which he said \"While not quite so sprightly as \"Stuart Little,\" and less rich in personalities and incident than \"Charlotte's Web\" -- that paean to barnyard life by a city humorist turned farmer -- \"The Trumpet of the Swan\" has superior qualities of its own; it is the most spacious and serene of the three, the one most imbued with the author's sense of the precious instinctual heritage represented by wild nature\"\n\nBecause of its success, \"The Trumpet Of The Swan\" had a few adaptations.\n\nAn unabridged reading of the book by author White was once audio recorded and has since been published as an audiobook.\n\nIn 1972, a piece by composer Benjamin Lees based on \"The Trumpet of the Swan\" was performed by the Philadelphia Orchestra (an orchestra with which Louis is mentioned as giving a guest performance).\n\nAn animated film of the book was made in 2001 by Rich Animation Studios, released by Nest Family Entertainment and distributed by Sony Pictures Entertainment under the TriStar Pictures label.\n\nA \"novel symphony for actors and orchestra\" was adapted from the book in 2011 by Marsha Norman with music composed and conducted by Jason Robert Brown. The production starred John Lithgow, Kathy Bates, Jesse Tyler Ferguson, Mandy Moore, James Naughton, and Martin Short. The production has been published on CD and by direct download.\n"}
{"id": "1885959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885959", "title": "David Horsey", "text": "David Horsey\n\nDavid Horsey (born 1951) is an editorial cartoonist and commentator in the United States. His cartoons appeared in the \"Seattle Post-Intelligencer\" from 1979 until December 2011 and in the \"Los Angeles Times\" since that time. His cartoons are syndicated to newspapers nationwide by Tribune Content Agency. He won the Pulitzer Prize for Editorial Cartooning in 1999 and 2003. He currently works for The Seattle Times.\n\nHorsey was born in Evansville, Indiana and moved to Seattle, Washington at age 3. He began working as a cartoonist in the \"Cascade\", the school newspaper at Ingraham High School. He was a French horn player in the Seattle Youth Symphony. He attended the University of Washington, where, as a freshman, he became the editorial cartoonist of the student newspaper \"The Daily\". He went on to become the first editorial cartoonist to be chosen as editor-in-chief of \"The Daily\". He graduated in 1976 with a degree in communications.\n\nHorsey's first job was as a reporter for the \"Bellevue Journal-American\", but in 1979 he was hired to be the editorial cartoonist of the \"Post-Intelligencer.\" In 1986, he earned a master's degree in international relations from the University of Kent in England. In 2004 he received an honorary doctorate degree from Seattle University.\n\nAt the end of 2011, he left the \"Post-Intelligencer\" and went to work for the \"Los Angeles Times\", where he remained until January 2018. His work then appeared in the Seattle Times until July 2018. He currently works for the Tribune Content Agency.\n\nHorsey has been recognized for his work with the Pulitzer Prize for Editorial Cartooning, first in 1999, when many of his cartoons focused on the Monica Lewinsky scandal, and in 2003, when he lampooned the Bush administration. In 2014, he was again a finalist for the Pulitzer Prize and also received the Robert F. Kennedy Journalism Award for his cartoons related to social justice issues.\n\n\nIn November 2017, Horsey wrote an entry for his thrice-weekly column, Top of the Ticket, in the Los Angeles Times titled \"\"Sarah Huckabee Sanders is the right mouthpiece for a truth-twisting president\"\" and was criticized shortly thereafter for his disparaging remarks about the appearance of Donald Trump's press secretary, Sarah Huckabee Sanders. Horsey's column included criticisms of her looks and attire. After being criticized for his comments, Horsey updated his column with an apology and removed the comments about Huckabee.\n\n"}
{"id": "1885965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885965", "title": "Stuart Card", "text": "Stuart Card\n\nStuart K. Card (born c. 1946), an American researcher and retired Senior Research Fellow at Xerox PARC, is considered to be one of the pioneers of applying human factors in human–computer interaction. His study of input devices led to the Fitts's Law characterization of the computer mouse and was a major factor leading to the mouse's commercial introduction by Xerox, most notably in the Alto and Star projects, some of the very earliest GUI systems employing a desktop metaphor. The 1983 book \"The Psychology of Human-Computer Interaction\", which he co-wrote with Thomas P. Moran and Allen Newell, became seminal work in the HCI field. Further research into the theoretical characterizations of human–machine interaction led to developments like \"the Model Human Processor, the GOMS theory of user interaction, information foraging theory, and statistical descriptions of Internet use\". In the new millennium his research has been focusing on developing a \"supporting science of human–information interaction and visual-semantic prototypes to aid sense making\".\n\nCard received a B.A. in physics from the Oberlin College in 1966, and a Ph.D. in psychology from Carnegie Mellon University.\n\nHe started working as an adjunct faculty member at Stanford University in the late 1960s. Since 1974 he has been working at PARC and was the Area Manager of the User Interface Research group. He retired from PARC in 2010 but has been a consulting professor in Stanford University's Computer Science department.\n\nCard received several awards. In 2000 he was awarded the CHI Lifetime Achievement Award from the Association for Computing Machinery's SIGCHI, and became Fellow of the Association for Computing Machinery. In 2001 he was elected to the CHI Academy. And in 2007, he was elected to the National Academy of Engineering, and was awarded The Franklin Institute's Bower Award and Prize for Achievement in Science. On May 26, 2008, Card was made an Honorary Doctor of Science by Oberlin College.\n\nCard has written three books and more than 70 papers, and holds 22 patents.\n\n"}
{"id": "1885974", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885974", "title": "Cynthia Lynch", "text": "Cynthia Lynch\n\nCynthia Lynch (born May 18, 1971) is an American professional wrestler. While in the World Wrestling Federation, she became the first of four women to win the company's Hardcore Championship.\n\nAfter being a wrestling fan as a child, Lynch made her debut in wrestling as a valet in December 1996 on the Northeastern independent circuit with help from her childhood friend Dawn Marie Psaltis. She managed many popular wrestlers in that area including Steve Corino, Rik Ratchet, Pat Kenney and The Inferno Kid. Soon after that, she began training to wrestle, and participated in many mixed tag matches. She had her first singles match in February 1998 where she lost to Little Jeanne, then known as Sweet Destiny. On July 24, 1999, she won the NWA New Jersey Junior Heavyweight Championship from Kevin Knight.\n\nIn 1999, she caught the eye of Tom Prichard, who was then a talent scout/trainer for the World Wrestling Federation (WWF), and in July 1999 signed a developmental contract with WWF. She began training with Prichard soon after. In October 1999, she made an appearance on \"Raw\" as one of The Godfather's Hos and was attacked by Viscera. Soon after that, she was sent to WWF's then developmental territory Memphis Championship Wrestling (MCW) for further training and development. While there she had feuds with The Kat, Jasmin St. Claire, Molly Holly and Victoria. In May 2000, she made three more televised appearances in the WWF as one of The Godfather's hos, briefly winning the Hardcore Championship from Crash Holly. Holly quickly pinned her to regain the title. When the WWF dropped MCW as one of their developmental territories in December 2000, she (along with some of the others training there) was released from her contract.\n\nIn the summer of 2002, she worked briefly for Total Nonstop Action Wrestling (TNA) as David Young's valet.\n\nAfterward, she returned to working for several other independent feds on the east coast, including Glory, GLOOW/DWOW, WEW, among others. On July 12, 2007, Lynch, as Principal Lazarus teamed with Roni Jonah to capture the Women's Extreme Wrestling Tag Team Championship against Annie Social and Amy Zidian (substituting for Sumie Sakai). On December 14, 2007 Lazarus and Roni successfully defended their tag team titles against Becky Bayless and Lucy Furr at the WEW event \"Tit For Tat\". On March 20, 2009, she wrestled at Firestorm Pro Wrestling against Sassy Stephie in a match that featured April Hunter as the guest referee.\n\nIn 2012, Lynch joined Ohio Valley Wrestling, and unsuccessfully challenged Taeler Hendrix for the OVW Women's Championship. At \"Saturday Night Special\" on February 4, she teamed with C.J. Lane to lose to Aleida Ortiz and Taeler Hendrix. On February 8, she lost a six-person mixed tag team match with Bull Bronson and Epiphany to Paredyse, C.J. Lane and Taeler Hendrix. In March 2012, Lynch became a valet of \"X2C\" (Sean Casey and Raphael Constantine), along with Miss Cinnamon Twist, SoulFire Bay and Terri Kendall.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1885978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885978", "title": "Status-6 Oceanic Multipurpose System", "text": "Status-6 Oceanic Multipurpose System\n\nThe Poseidon (, \"Poseidon\", NATO reporting name Kanyon), previously known by Russian codename Status-6 (), is an autonomous, nuclear-powered, and nuclear-armed unmanned underwater vehicle under development by Rubin Design Bureau, capable of delivering both conventional and nuclear payloads.\n\nThe Poseidon is one of the six new Russian strategic weapons unveiled by Russian President Vladimir Putin on 1 March 2018.\n\nThe first public appearance of Poseidon dates back to September 2015 and cites Pentagon sources.\n\nOn 10 November 2015, a page of a document that contained information about a secret \"oceanic multi-purpose system\" called \"Status-6\" was \"accidentally\" revealed by Russian NTV television channel. The leak happened during Russian President Vladimir Putin's speech denouncing American plans concerning defensive missile technology. Speculation arose as to whether this was a warning signal or disinformation intended to mislead foreign intelligence services. The CIA has concluded the leak was intentional.\n\nAccording to Pentagon, Russia conducted the first test-launch of Poseidon on 27 November 2016, using the B-90 \"Sarov\" special purpose submarine. The test was reportedly carried out in the Arctic Ocean.\n\nIn early 2018, Pentagon's Nuclear Posture Review publicly acknowledged development of Russia's \"new intercontinental, nuclear armed, nuclear-powered, undersea autonomous torpedo\".\n\nIn March 2018, the system was officially named \"Poseidon\", following a public vote.\n\nIn January 2019, Russian Navy announced plans to procure at least 30 Poseidon unmanned underwater vehicles, deployed on four submarines, two of which would serve the Russian Northern Fleet and two the Pacific Fleet.\n\nOn 2 February 2019, Russian President Vladimir Putin announced completion of the key stage of trials of Poseidon.\n\nOn 20 February 2019, the Russian Defence Ministry released a video, showing a Poseidon being test-launched by a B-90 \"Sarov\" special purpose submarine.\n\nThe Poseidon is intended as an asymmetric counter to U.S. missile defense systems, such as anti-ballistic missiles, railguns, or laser weapons, ensuring Russia's capability to overcome such systems.\n\nThe Poseidon warhead can contaminate a large area with radiation. According NukeMap simulations, the size of the radioactive area will be about 1700×300 kilometers. For this purpose, the Poseidon is believed to be equipped with a toxic cobalt bomb, containing cobalt-60. Poseidon appears to be a deterrent weapon of last resort.\n\nAn aircraft carrier battle group would have reduced chances of defending itself against it. The drone could detonate its very large warhead at standoff range, and anti-submarine warfare units would have very little time to react because of the speed at which it travels.\n\nThe Poseidon appears to be a torpedo-shaped robotic mini-submarine which can travel at speeds of . More recent information suggests a top speed of , with a range of and a depth maximum of .\n\nTypical depth of the drone may be about 50–100 meters for increased stealth features in low-speed stealth mode. Low depth in stealth mode is preferred because sound waves move to ocean floor and reduce radius of detection. Submarines use the same strategy in silent running mode.\n\nIt is 1.6–2 metres in diameter, and 24 metres long. The warhead shown in the leaked figure is a cylinder 1.5 metres in diameter by 4 metres in length, giving a volume of 7 cubic meters. Comparing this to the volumes of other large thermonuclear bombs, the 1961 Soviet-era Tsar Bomba itself measured 8 metres long by 2.1 metres in diameter, indicates that the yield is at least several tens of megatons, generally consistent with early reports of 100 megatons.<ref name=\"urlRussia releases first video footage of new Kanyon/Status-6 nuclear torpedo | Naval Today\"></ref> Some reports suggest the yield of the \"Poseidon's\" warhead is as low as 2 Mt.\n\nThe National Interest compiled several unclassified defense sources from General Electric experts about the similar 601B project and they predicted low weight and compact gas-cooled nuclear reactor in the drone. Russian submarine designers say that a low-power reactor is preferred for Poseidon because a smaller reactor is less noisy.\n\nThe development includes also use of stealth technology, to elude acoustic tracking devices. Poseidon uses a silent running strategy like other submarines. Its main stealth feature is its very low speed before it reaches the target area. Its high-speed mode activates upon reaching a short finish range (2-3 kilometers), when the probability of detection of the drone is considerably higher. It could travel for weeks toward enemy port cities, reaching high-speed only in the final stage.\n\nRussian designers estimated the radius of detection of the drone will be about for . A second important stealth feature of the drone is the special design of the pump-jet for clearance of the drone's acoustic signature to imitate the noise of civil ships.\nA U.S. intelligence officer told CNBC that the Poseidon is difficult to detect and difficult to target in stealth mode.\n\nThe Poseidon is a family of drones rather than a single type, with some Poseidons designed only for destroying coastal cities and thus relying on \"stealth\" capabilities rather than on high speed, and other ones primarily designed to attack carrier battle groups, where the later ones may use the supercavitation, like the VA-111 Shkval torpedo, to be able to gain extremely high speed in attack mode (more than ). However, supercavitation devices have not been observed on the available footage of Poseidon. Pentagon estimates maximum speed of the Poseidon about without the supercavitation option.\n\nTwo vessels that are speculated to carry the Poseidon, the Project 09852 Oscar-class submarine \"Belgorod\" and the Project 09851 \"Khabarovsk\" submarines, are new boats deployed in 2012 and 2014, respectively. Oscar-class submarines could carry four Poseidon torpedoes at the same time for a total yield of up to 400 megatonnes.\n\nAccording to some reports, the Poseidon may also have a seabed or mobile sites launch option. In the seabed option, known as Skif (Скиф), Poseidon can wait on the sea floor in a special container for as long as necessary. It is known that the Russian auxiliary vessel \"ZVEZDOCHKA 600\" (Project 20180) with ice-breaking capability is being used for testing of the Poseidon drones, thus it's believed the ship can be also used as the platform for deploying and retrieving a seabed version of the drone. The seabed launch option was patented (RU 2135929 patent) by the Poseidon designer Alexander Shalnev.\n\nFollowing the Russian President Vladimir Putin's statement in March 2018, in which he referenced to the Poseidon as a weapon that could hit U.S. port cities, U.S. Defense Secretary James Mattis stated Russia already has the capability to hit U.S. port cities with missiles, and said that Poseidon \"does not change at all the strategic balance\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1886003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1886003", "title": "Beaverton Central station", "text": "Beaverton Central station\n\nBeaverton Central is a light rail station on the MAX Blue Line in Beaverton, Oregon, United States.\n\nThe station, located near Beaverton's downtown area, is surrounded by a mixed-use development, The Round at Beaverton Central, the present location of the main offices of The Linux Foundation, previously the Open Source Development Labs. In March 2011, TriMet received a federal grant to pay for the installation of security cameras at the station. Traveling eastbound, this is the final station to be served only by the Blue Line until the East 102nd Avenue station.\n\n"}
{"id": "1886005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1886005", "title": "USS Hartford grounding", "text": "USS Hartford grounding\n\nOn 25 October 2003, , a United States Navy nuclear-powered ran aground while leaving the harbor of the NATO Naval Base at the Santo Stefano island in La Maddalena archipelago, Sardinia. Approximately nine million dollars' worth of damage was done to the submarine, and it was out of service for seven months. An investigation into the accident revealed that basic navigational errors combined with equipment failures were to blame for the submarine running into the rocky shallows.\n\nThe US Navy investigation into the incident revealed a pattern of navigation, procedural and equipment errors leading up to the accident.\n\n\nNavy divers from USS \"Emory S. Land\" inspected \"Hartford\" the next day and found large areas of the hull scraped down to bare metal. Sound damping anechoic tiles had been ripped away, metal grates over the ballast tanks had been badly distorted and the passive sonar hydrophone system damaged in three separate locations. The worst damage was at the aft end of the boat, where the rocks had torn off the bottom part of the rudder. So severe was the damage, that there was some question as to the structural integrity of the hull; however, temporary repairs were conducted at La Maddalena. And on 19 November 2003 \"Hartford\" proceeded back to Naval Station Norfolk in Virginia under her own power, but at half speed—arriving on 17 December 2003. \"Hartford\" then underwent repairs for seven months. It finally returned to Groton.\n\nAfter the accident Commander Christopher R. Van Metre, captain of \"Hartford\", and Captain Greg Parker, Commodore of Submarine Squadron 22, were relieved of command and sent back to the United States. Six other crewmen were also charged with dereliction of duty.\n\nThe U.S. Navy report into the incident made several recommendations, one of which is to ensure that no transfers of key personnel occur prior to, or during a deployment. \"Hartford\"s captain had reported aboard only weeks before the boat left for the Mediterranean and his unfamiliarity with the crew and the boat were contributing factors. The lessons learned about the failures in navigation have been incorporated into the \"submarine on-board training syllabus\". The Navy has also asked the government of Italy to place more navigational buoys warning of shallow water near Sardinia.\n\nThere was some concern after the accident, especially given the fact the incident was not reported to the public until 12 November, three weeks after the accident. There was some outcry in the Italian press, especially since a nuclear submarine was involved. Subsequent investigations have shown that there was no leak from the submarine.\n\n"}
{"id": "1886010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1886010", "title": "Vincentian Family", "text": "Vincentian Family\n\nThe Vincentian Family comprises organizations inspired by the life and work of Vincent de Paul, a 17th-century priest who \"transformed the face of France.\"\n\nHe directly founded the Confraternities of Charity (today known as the AIC) the Congregation of the Mission and the Daughters of Charity of Saint Vincent de Paul. Frederic Ozanam, inspired by a Daughter of Charity, Rosalie Rendu, founded the Society of St. Vincent de Paul. Betty Ann McNeill has written a definitive work identifying some 268 institutes that meet at least one criterion as members of the Vincentian Family. The Vincentian Family, \"inter alia\", has, as its incumbent head, of Buenos Aires, the incumbent worldwide superior general of the Congregation of the Mission, elected during the community's 42nd General Assembly (June 27 – July 15, 2016) in Chicago.\n\nIn August 2007, the Catholic University of America, (with the Opus Prize 2004 Foundation), announced that it would award in November a $1-million and two $100,000 Humanity prizes to organizations which contributed to solve most persistent social problems: Father John Adams (of \"So Others Might Eat\", which serves the poor in Washington, D.C.); Brother Stan Goetschalckx, F.C., (founder and director of AHADI International Institute in Tanzania, which educates refugees from the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Rwanda and Burundi); and Vincentian priest Rev. Norberto Carcellar, C.M., (of the Homeless People's Federation Philippines, which helped squatters in Payatas, Quezon City, Philippines living on garbage dump). Victor Nakas of the Catholic University of America, an Opus Prize Foundation partner, said that The Opus Prize is the 1953 vision of founder Gerry Rauenhorst. The 2007 Opus Prize was officially handed out at Catholic University's Edward J. Pryzbyla University Center. On November 8, 2007, Rev. David M. O’Connell, CM, president of Catholic University personally bestowed these Opus Prizes of over one million dollars for systemic change projects to these Vincentian Family priests and brothers.\n\nIn Anglicanism the main Vincentian order for women is the Sisters of Charity, and the main order for men is the Company of Mission Priests. A newly formed priestly congregation, the \"Sodality of Mary, Mother of Priests (Sodalitas Mariae, Matris Sacerdotum)\" whose first aspirants took vows in February 2016, has also stated that its intention is to follow a Vincentian Rule.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1886018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1886018", "title": "French submarine Améthyste (S605)", "text": "French submarine Améthyste (S605)\n\nL'Améthyste is a nuclear-powered attack submarine of the French Navy, the fifth of the \"Rubis\" type. The boat's name is a pun on a precious stone (Amethyst) and the acronym \"AMElioration Tactique, HydrodYnamique, Silence, Transmission, Ecoute\" (\"Tactical, hydrodynamics, silence and transmission improvements\"). The \"boat\" is most likely the first vessel to serve in the French submarine fleet under that namesake.\n\nThe boat is a major upgrade upon the initial design of the \"Rubis\" type, and earlier units have since been refitted to meet her standards.\n\nThe \"Améthyste\" also took part in \"Operation Allied Force\", the 1999 bombing campaign over Yugoslavia, by protecting the NATO aeronaval group. Along with the \"Rubis\", the boat was one of the two submarines that interdicted the Kotor straits to the Serbian Navy, thus effectively forbidding their use. The boat also gathered information for the coalition.\n\nThe submarine \"Améthyste\" was part of the French naval task group led by the \"Charles de Gaulle\" that departed Toulon on 30 October 2010 for a four-month deployment to the Mediterranean Sea, Red Sea, Indian Ocean and Persian Gulf. The task group commander, Rear Admiral Jean-Louis Kerignard, defined force's mission as follows:\n\n\"The force would help allied navies fight piracy off the coast of Somalia and send jets to support NATO in the skies above Afghanistan.\"\n\nOnce on station, the \"Charles de Gaulle\" carrier task group joined two U.S. Navy carrier strike groups led by the Nimitz class aircraft carrier aircraft carriers and operating in the Persian Gulf. Subsequently, between 7–14 January 2011, the French carrier task group led by the \"Charles de Gaulle\" participated with bilateral naval exercise, code named Varuna 10, with the Indian Navy. Indian naval units participating in Varuna 10 included the aircraft carrier , the frigates and ; and the diesel-electric submarine . Varuna 10 was a two-phase naval exercise, with the harbor phase taking place between 7–11 January and the sea phase between 11–14 January in the Arabian Sea.\n\nThe fanion of \"Améthyste\" is decorated:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1886024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1886024", "title": "Steven Poole", "text": "Steven Poole\n\nSteven Poole (born 1972) is a British author and journalist. He particularly concerns himself with the abuse of language and has written two books on the subject: \"Unspeak\" (2006) and \"Who Touched Base In My Thought Shower?\" (2013).\n\nPoole studied English at Emmanuel College, Cambridge, and has subsequently written for publications including \"The Independent\", \"The Guardian\", \"The Times Literary Supplement\", \"The Sunday Times\", and the \"New Statesman\". He has published two books and currently writes a weekly nonfiction book-review column in the Saturday \"Guardian\" called Et Cetera, as well as regular longer book reviews, plus a monthly column in \"Edge\" magazine. Poole was invited to deliver the opening keynote address at the 2006 Sydney Writers' Festival, and also gave a keynote at the 2008 Future and Reality of Gaming conference in Vienna.\n\n\"Trigger Happy\" was published in 2000 by 4th Estate in the UK (with the subtitle \"The Inner Life of Videogames\") and by Arcade Publishing in the US (with the subtitle \"Videogames and the Entertainment Revolution\"). It is an investigation of the aesthetics of videogames, that notes similarities and differences with other artforms such as cinema, painting and literature, and finally offers a description of games as semiotic systems that may provoke \"aesthetic wonder\". In 2007, Poole released a PDF version of the book for free download on his website, calling it an \"experiment\" in the tip-jar model for writers. In 2013 collection of Poole's \"Edge\" columns was published as \"Trigger Happy 2.0\".\n\n\"Unspeak\" was published in 2006 by Little, Brown in the UK, and by Grove Press in the US. The second UK edition (2007) has the subtitle \"Words Are Weapons\". It is a book about language in contemporary politics, structured around buzzphrases such as \"community\", climate change/global warming, and \"war on terror\". The book was shortlisted for Index on Censorship's T.R. Fyvel Award in 2006. According to the author, \"unspeak\" is related to framing: it is a rhetorical way of naming an issue so as to avoid having to argue one's position, and to render the opposing position inexpressible. \"Unspeak\" received a hostile review in the \"Guardian\" from former British government communications chief Alastair Campbell, who wrote: \"I am not quite sure what Poole is trying to say.\" Since publication of the book, the author has continued to discuss new examples of unspeak at the book's dedicated blog.\n\n\"Who Touched Base In My Thought Shower?\" was released in October 2013 by Sceptre, an imprint of Hodder & Stoughton. The book was expanded from an article written for \"The Guardian\" and ridicules workplace jargon. \"The Spectator\" thought it \"does show occasional signs of having been written in a rush, but it's a valuable glossary to corporate life and demonstrates the empty-headed arrogance of what passes for management style.\"\n\n\"Rethink: the Surprising History of Ideas\" is slated for release 15 November 2016 by Scribner. Among other subjects, it takes up the life-cycle of bad ideas.\n\nPoole writes book reviews and literary and cultural essays for numerous publications, including a long obituary of Jean Baudrillard for \"The Guardian\", and a critique of the work of Alain de Botton.\n\nIn 2004, Poole presented a television documentary for BBC Four called \"Trigger Happy: The Invincible Rise of the Video Game\", based on his book. He also appeared in the documentary \"Thumb Candy\", and has guested on BBC Radio 4 and other outlets in numerous discussions about language, including an appearance on the \"Today\" programme in 2009 talking about the term \"swine flu\".\n\nPoole is also a composer of music for documentary and short films, including the short film EVOL.\n\n"}
{"id": "1886026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1886026", "title": "Fritz Von Erich", "text": "Fritz Von Erich\n\nJack Barton Adkisson Sr. (August 16, 1929 – September 10, 1997), better known by his ring name Fritz Von Erich, was an American professional wrestler, wrestling promoter, and the patriarch of the Von Erich family. He was also the owner of the World Class Championship Wrestling territory.\n\nAdkisson attended Southern Methodist University, where he threw discus and played football. He has been reported to have played with the now defunct Dallas Texans of the NFL (not the AFL team which became the Kansas City Chiefs), but this is not true. He was signed as a guard but was cut. He then tried the Canadian Football League (CFL).\n\nWhile in Edmonton, he met legendary wrestler and trainer Stu Hart, and Hart decided to train and book him in his Klondike Wrestling promotion, naming him Fritz Von Erich and teaming him with \"brother\" Waldo Von Erich as a pair of \"evil German\" brothers. Adkisson's oldest son Jack Barton Adkisson Jr. was born September 21, 1952. He died in 1959 after an accidental electrocution and drowning, and Jack Sr. stopped traveling to the east coast, allowing former partner Waldo to use the Von Erich name in the World Wide Wrestling Federation.\n\nDespite Jack Jr.'s death, Adkisson continued to travel and wrestle. Adkisson won both versions of the AWA World title in 1963. His major circuit was Sam Muchnick's NWA territorial stronghold in St. Louis, Missouri. He wrestled there until 1967, when he voluntarily left the territory after losing a match for the NWA World Heavyweight Championship against then-champion Gene Kiniski.<ref name=\"WON 1/9/08\">Dave Meltzer, Wrestling Observer Newsletter, January 9, 2008</ref> In the late 1960s, with Muchnick's backing, Adkisson became the promoter for the Dallas territory, effectively overseeing the Houston and San Antonio territories, as well.\n\nAdkisson was a part of rebuilding Japanese wrestling after the stabbing death of Rikidōzan. He became a star due to his feuds with Antonio Inoki and Giant Baba, and his \"Iron Claw\" hold, which became one of the most popular wrestling moves in Japan.\n\nIn 1982, he held his first retirement match against King Kong Bundy in the newly renamed World Class Championship Wrestling promotion, based in Dallas. The promotion was known for its high production values, use of entrance music and the use of television syndication. The promotion was one of the most successful territories in the United States, with major draws like his sons, The Fabulous Freebirds, Chris Adams, Abdullah the Butcher, Bruiser Brody, Gino Hernandez and Rick Rude. By the end of the 1980s, the promotion's talent pool was thin and it was eventually merged with Jerry Jarrett's Continental Wrestling Association to create the United States Wrestling Association in 1989.\n\nAdkisson married Doris J. Smith on June 23, 1950. Together, they had six sons: Jack Barton Jr. (September 21, 1952 – March 7, 1959), Kevin (born May 15, 1957), David (July 22, 1958 – February 10, 1984), Kerry (February 3, 1960 – February 18, 1993), Mike (March 2, 1964 – April 12, 1987) and Chris (September 30, 1969 – September 12, 1991). Of Adkisson's six sons, Kevin was the only one still living by the time Adkisson died. The couple later separated and Doris divorced her husband on July 21, 1992 after 42 years of marriage.\n\nAdkisson died of brain and lung cancer on September 10, 1997. His funeral service was held at the First Baptist Church in Dallas, Texas. His body was cremated with his ashes interred in the same plot as his fourth son, Kerry.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1886031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1886031", "title": "Krishna Pal", "text": "Krishna Pal\n\nKrishna Pal (1764–1822) was the first Indian convert to Baptist Christianity due to the missionary activity of William Carey, the founder of the Baptist Missionary Society, and his co-workers.\n\nKrishna Pal was born in 1764 in Calcutta, India. In his mid-thirties, he broke his arm doing his carpentry job. This led him to Dr. John Thomas, a doctor from the Baptist Missionary Society (founded by William Carey) who told Krishna Pal with the help of Joshua Marshman, of a \"disease\" they said was even more deadly—sin. Pal was very moved by the story of God's salvation and was baptised by William Carey in the River Ganges a month later, in December 1800, making him the first Bengali convert to Christianity. He renounced his caste at around the same time while he was eating in public with missionaries.\n\nFor the next twenty years, until his death in 1822, Pal devoted himself to the ministry of the people in Calcutta and built a church there. In these twenty years he wrote hymns such as \"The Shipwrecked Sinner Looking to Jesus,\" \"O Thou, My Soul, Forget No More\" and \"Salvation by the Death of Christ.\" Many of these hymns were translated from Bengali to English by John Clark Marshman.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1886037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1886037", "title": "Iridium(III) chloride", "text": "Iridium(III) chloride\n\nIridium(III) chloride is the inorganic compound with the formula IrCl. The anhydrous compound is relatively rare, but the related hydrate is useful for preparing other iridium compounds. The anhydrous salt is a dark green crystalline solid. More commonly encountered is the trihydrate IrCl(HO).\n\nIridium is separated from the other platinum group metals as crystalline ammonium hexachloroiridate, (NH)[IrCl], which can be reduced to iridium metal in a stream of hydrogen. The spongy Ir thus produced reacts with chlorine at 300–400 °C to give iridium(III) chloride. Like the related rhodium compound, IrCl adopts the structure seen for aluminium chloride.\n\nHydrated iridium trichloride is obtained by heating hydrated iridium(III) oxide with hydrochloric acid.\n\nIndustrially, most iridium complexes are generated from ammonium hexachloroiridate or the related chloroiridic acid (HIrCl) as these salts are the most common commercial forms of iridium chlorides.\n\nHydrated iridium(III) chloride is used in the laboratory for the preparation of other iridium compounds such as Vaska's complex, \"trans\"-[IrCl(CO)(PPh)]. Alkene complexes such as cyclooctadiene iridium chloride dimer and chlorobis(cyclooctene)iridium dimer can also be prepared by heating the trichloride with the appropriate alkene in water/alcohol mixtures. \n\nIridium(III) chloride is not listed under Annex I of Directive 67/548/EEC, but is usually classified as irritant, R36/37/38: \"Irritating to eyes, respiratory system and skin\". It is listed in the inventory of the Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA).\n"}
{"id": "1886038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1886038", "title": "Lucia Sanchez", "text": "Lucia Sanchez\n\nLucía Sánchez (1969) is a Spanish-born French actress. She started her acting career in 1996 with \"Une robe d'été\" \"(A Summer Dress)\" directed by François Ozon.\n\nShe starred in ' directed by Yves Caumon with Bernard Blancan, ' directed by Jean-Paul Civeyrac, \"\" directed by Gilles Marchand.\nIn theater she worked with Renaud Cojo, Michel Dydim, Valérie Crunchant, Christophe Guichet, Laurence de la Fuente and others.\n\nSanchez is also a film director. She has directed three short movies and two documentaries.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1886047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1886047", "title": "Sørvágsfjørður", "text": "Sørvágsfjørður\n\nSørvágsfjørður is a fjord on the west side of the island of Vágoy in the Faroe Islands which is approximately long.\n\nAt the end of the fjord lies the village of Sørvágur. On the northside of the fjord lies the small village of Bøur. On the south side of the fjord lies the picturesque Tindhólmur islet, flanked by the Drangarnir sea stacks and Gáshólmur islet. Roughly in the middle of the fjord lies Skerhólmur.\n\nDuring World War II many British soldiers lived in Sørvágur. Sørvágsfjørður is mentioned in the Pioneers from the WW2 Museum, Krígssavnið, in Miðvágur. The Royal Pioneers who were in the Faroe Islands from 1941 until the end of the war published their own newspaper.\n\n"}
{"id": "1886060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1886060", "title": "Polly Samson", "text": "Polly Samson\n\nPolly Samson (born 29 April 1962) is an English novelist, lyricist and journalist. She is married to musician David Gilmour, and has written the lyrics to many of Gilmour's works, both as a solo artist and with the group Pink Floyd.\n\nSamson's father was Lance Samson (died 4 February 2013), a newspaper editor and diplomatic correspondent for the \"Morning Star,\" and her mother was a writer of Chinese descent, Esther Cheo Ying, who wrote a memoir, \"Black Country to Red China\", about her time serving as a Major in Mao Zedong's Red Army.\n\nFollowing a troubled childhood, Samson joined the publishing industry, through which she met the writer Heathcote Williams, with whom she became romantically involved during the publication of his \"Whale Nation\", Samson being responsible for publicising what she succeeded in turning into a best-selling volume despite its author's reluctance to promote his work. With Williams she had her first son, Charlie. Following his birth, Samson became homeless and was taken in for a period by the journalist Cassandra Jardine.\n\nAfter splitting from Williams, Samson met Pink Floyd singer and guitarist David Gilmour, whom she married in 1994 during Pink Floyd's Division Bell tour. Her son Charlie was adopted by Gilmour and they have three other children: Joe, Gabriel, and Romany.\n\nShe has also written short stories for BBC Radio 4 and has had a collection published \"Lying in Bed\" (Virago 1999) and a novel, \"Out of the Picture\" (Virago 2000), as well as contributing pieces and stories to many other books and publications including \"Gas and Air\" (Bloomsbury 2003), \"Girls Night In\" (Harper Collins 2000), \"A Day in the Life\" (Black Swan 2003), and The Just When Stories (Beautiful Books 2010). Samson's collection of stories, \"Perfect Lives\", was published in November 2010 by Virago Press. Her novel, \"The Kindness\", was published in 2015.\n\nSamson is credited as a co-writer on seven of \"The Division Bell\"s 11 tracks, and, with the retrospective credit given to Clare Torry for her vocals on \"The Great Gig in the Sky\", she is one of only two female co-writers of any Pink Floyd songs. She also wrote lyrics for Gilmour's 2006 album, \"On an Island\", and made a guest appearance on piano and vocals. She contributed lyrics to \"Louder than Words\", the only track on Pink Floyd's 2014 release, \"The Endless River\", to contain any sung lyrics. Samson has also contributed lyrics to half of the tracks on Gilmour's latest album, \"Rattle That Lock\" (2015), which were inspired by \"Paradise Lost\", an epic poem by John Milton.\n\nIn 2018, Samson was made a Fellow of the Royal Society of Literature.\n\nSamson's novel, \"A Theatre for Dreamers\", was published on 2 April 2020 by Bloomsbury Circus. The novel entered the Sunday Times Bestsellers Chart at number two.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1886063", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1886063", "title": "Jeanne Balibar", "text": "Jeanne Balibar\n\nJeanne Balibar (born 13 April 1968) is a French actress and singer.\n\nBalibar was born in Paris, the daughter of Marxist philosopher Étienne Balibar and physicist Françoise Balibar. \nShe started her career as a student in the famous French theater school \"Cours Florent\", in Paris, with her friends, actor Eric Ruf and photographer & actor Gregory Herpe.\nShe began her acting career on the stage, in \"Don Juan\" at the Festival d'Avignon. Her first film role was in Arnaud Desplechin's 1992 film \"The Sentinel\". She continues to perform in both spheres.\n\nShe starred in \"Ne change rien\" (2009) directed by Pedro Costa. Among other films, she appeared in \"17 Times Cécile Cassard\" (2002), directed by Christophe Honoré, with Béatrice Dalle and Romain Duris; \"All the Fine Promises\" (2003), directed by Jean-Paul Civeyrac, with Bulle Ogier and Valérie Crunchant; and \"Clean\" (2004), directed by Olivier Assayas, with Maggie Cheung and Nick Nolte.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1886068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1886068", "title": "Ukrainian hip hop", "text": "Ukrainian hip hop\n\nUkrainian hip hop, also known as Ukra-hop or Ukr-hop is a major part of the Ukrainian music scene. Refers to all genres of hip hop music in the Ukrainian language. The term Ukr-hop is also sometimes used to refer to any hip hop music made by Ukrainians, including instrumental hip hop, as well as rap songs by members of the Ukrainian diaspora.\n\nIn Ukraine hip hop began to develop in 1990s. In 1989 started their activities two biggiest hip hop groups at that time - TNMK and V.U.Z.V. The pioneers of Ukrainian hip hop were TNMK (Kharkiv), V.U.Z.V (Kiev), Osnovnyy Pokaznyk (Luts'k), Tartak (Lviv) and GreenJolly (Ivano-Frankivs'k). At the end of the 1990s and beginning of the 2000s audience considered Kharkiv and Lviv as the main center of the Ukra.hop subculture. Many groups successfully performed at festivals such as Chervona Ruta and Tavriyski Ihry. At the mid-2000s a lot of underground bands and artists from another cities in Ukraine began to appear and became popular: DaHok (Drohobych), Zахідна Коаліція (Stryi), Kryzhyk (Uman), Sheksta (Stryi), Sirius MC (Kalush) and Freel (Kiev).\n\nIn 2005, Ukraine's entrant in the Eurovision Song Contest, GreenJolly's \"Together We Are Many\", was also the unofficial anthem of the Orange Revolution. Eurovision demanded the lyrics to be changed for the contest (because it did not correspond to contests rules due to political content). Also this song was remade by Polish hip hop artists.\n\nIn 2008 hip hop group LEZO released their fourth studio album, Gostroslovy (Ukrainian: Гострослови). Many critics consider it one of the best in Ukrainian hip-hop industry. The same year KyLЯ and RYLEZ created group Tulym - one of the most successful Ukrainian boom bap group.\n\nMarch 11, 2011, Ukrainian rapper Ivan Buyan presented his first music video filmed in New York City.\n\nJune 19, 2014, PVNCH presented their new album - Golodnyy (Ukrainian: Голодний, translation: Hungry). According to voting results Golodnyy was named the best hip-hop album of 2014. April 18, 2015, Tulym from Kiev had a concert with legendary hip-hop band from New York City - Onyx in Sofia, Bulgaria.\n\nA rising new star of Ukrainian origin self proclaimed \"Nazaren tha Prophet\" (Nazar Kotovych) has been rewriting Ukrainian rap history in the United States. Writing and rapping since 1997 the artist performs and records in four different languages mixing them together. Debut Album \"Birth Of The Nazaren\" came out in 2012. He is due to release a very politically charged album in 2016 titled \"Partec Mendacii\" and another one in the beginning of 2017. This artist is thought to make a real buzz the rap critics say \"in the up coming years he will put Ukrainian hip-hop on the level of its predecessors and in the public view of the world\".\n\nMusically, Ukrainian hip hop is heavily influenced by Jamaican reggae and Ukrainian folk music, resulting a very tuneful and mellow sound, which makes it quite different from both Russian and American counterparts.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1886075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1886075", "title": "French submarine Saphir (S602)", "text": "French submarine Saphir (S602)\n\nSaphir is a first-generation nuclear attack submarine of the French Navy. \"Saphir\" is the second of the \"Rubis\" series. The boat was originally to be named \"Bretagne\", but the name was changed to \"Saphir\" before commissioning in 1981. \n\nBetween October 1989 and May 1991, the boat undertook a major refit which revolved around upgrades to the level of the lead vessel in the class, .\n\nIn September 2001, the boat torpedoed and sank a target ship, the decommissioned destroyer \"D'Estrées,\" off Toulon.\n\nOn 6 March 2015 it was reported that in a later erased blogspot of the French Ministry of Defence that during a training exercise off Florida \"Saphir\", in her role as part of the \"enemy\" attack group, had \"sunk\" the aircraft carrier and its escort.\n\nAfter 35 years of active service, \"Saphir\" was decommissioned in July 2019, making her the first \"Rubis\"-class SSN to be decommissioned. Saphir will be replaced by a new Barracuda-class SSN.\n\nThe fanion of \"Saphir\" and the men's boat were decorated with the Cross for Military Valour with bronze palm on June 5, 2012.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1886077", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1886077", "title": "Millikan Way station", "text": "Millikan Way station\n\nMillikan Way is a light rail station on the MAX Blue Line in Washington County, Oregon. It is the 8th stop westbound on the Westside MAX.\n\nThe station is located in the southern central part of the Tektronix Howard Vollum Campus. Other nearby business parks offer shuttle service to this station. One bus line serves this station and provides service to Washington Square Transit Center and Sunset Transit Center.\n\nThis station is served by the following bus line:\n\n"}
{"id": "1886092", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1886092", "title": "French submarine Casabianca (S603)", "text": "French submarine Casabianca (S603)\n\nCasabianca is a nuclear attack submarine of the French Navy. Laid down in 1981, she was launched in 1984 and commissioned in 1987.\n\nUnlike her five sister ships, \"Casabianca\" is not named after a precious stone; she is named after the of the Second World War. This \"Casabianca\" escaped Toulon during the scuttling of the fleet there on 27 November 1942, afterwards joining the Allies. The submarine served with distinction in the Mediterranean under \"Capitaine de frégate\" Jean L'Herminier, particularly in the liberation of Corsica.\n\nThe boat is the third of the . Between 1993 and June 1994, the boat undertook a major refitting which upgraded the boat to the level of \"Améthyste\", arming the latter for anti-submarine as well as anti-surface ship warfare. The boat's underwater endurance is 60 days, dictated by food supplies. The boat is designed to operate at seas 220 days per year, and is thus staffed by two crews that relay each other from one patrol or exercise to the next.\n\nAmong \"Casabianca\"s operational highlights are revolved around being the first French submarine to visit the naval base at Severomorsk, home of the Russian Northern Fleet, in 2003; and patrols in the Mediterranean and in the Indian Ocean as part of the fleet surrounding the aircraft carrier , such as in 2007.\n\nDuring the \"Péan\" inter-allied maneuvers of 1998, \"Casabianca\" managed to \"sink\" and her escort cruiser during a simulated attack.\n\n"}
{"id": "1886097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1886097", "title": "Beaverton Creek station", "text": "Beaverton Creek station\n\nBeaverton Creek is a light rail station on the MAX Blue Line in Beaverton, Oregon, United States. It is the 9th stop westbound on the Westside MAX.\n\nThe station is located near parkland, which is near the Nike World Campus. Retained at the station's crosswalk to the platform are remnants of a railroad spur, once used to serve light industrial customers and to deliver MAX vehicles. Nike operates its own fleet of shuttle buses, all running on biodiesel, to its world headquarters and nearby satellite offices.\n\nIn March 2011, TriMet received a federal grant to pay for the installation of security cameras at the station.\n\n"}
{"id": "1886104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1886104", "title": "Merlo Road/Southwest 158th Avenue station", "text": "Merlo Road/Southwest 158th Avenue station\n\nMerlo Road/Southwest 158th Avenue is a light rail station on the MAX Blue Line in Beaverton, Oregon, United States. It is the 10th stop westbound on the Westside MAX.\n\nLocated to the south of the station is Merlo Garage used by TriMet buses and a paved path into Tualatin Hills Nature Park. It is also the primary transit stop for students attending Merlo Station High School. It is also a short walk to the Nike World campus, and the H.M. Terpenning Recreational center. In March 2011, TriMet received a federal grant to pay for the installation of security cameras at the station.\n\nThis station is served by the following bus line:\n\nThere is no parking area at this station.\n\n"}
{"id": "1886111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1886111", "title": "First Gulf Bank", "text": "First Gulf Bank\n\nFGB (formerly known as First Gulf Bank) was the third largest bank by assets in the United Arab Emirates (UAE), until it merged with the National Bank of Abu Dhabi in December 2016 to form to form First Abu Dhabi Bank, creating the largest bank by assets in the UAE. Established in 1979, FGB is headquartered in the emirate of Abu Dhabi.\nFGB offers a wide range of financial services in the wholesale, consumer and treasury banking sectors, including Islamic banking and bancassurance solutions for businesses and consumers via a network of branches across the UAE. Internationally, FGB has a branch in Singapore - that includes global wealth management services and a branch in Qatar, representative offices in London, India, Hong Kong and Seoul, South Korea, and a subsidiary in Libya.\n\nIn 2013, the bank restructured its business into three divisions: the Wholesale Banking Group, the Consumer Banking Group and the Treasury & Global Markets Group. In the same year, FGB also announced that it had acquired full ownership of Shariah-compliant finance company Aseel Islamic Finance and consumer finance firm Dubai First.\n\nIn December 2016, shareholders approved the bank's plans to merge with the National Bank of Abu Dhabi (NBAD) and both banks finalized the second-tier management by February 2017. The plan to merge the banks, which was first announced in June 2016, will be executed through a share swap, with FGB shareholders receiving 1.254 NBAD shares for each FGB share they hold. The merged entity is now known as First Abu Dhabi Bank.\n\nFGB had Shareholder Equity of AED 34.1 billion as of December 31, 2014, making it one of the largest equity based banks in the UAE.\n\nFGB reported a total net profit of AED 5.66 billion in 2014, which represents an 18% increase when compared with AED 4.77 billion achieved in 2013. 2014 also marked the 15th consecutive year of uninterrupted net profit growth for the bank. \n\nThe bank’s consistent performance led to a Financial Strength Rating of 'A+' from Capital Intelligence in 2014.\nIn 2013, RAM Ratings provided the bank with an AAA grade, and FGB’s Long Term Rating was affirmed at A+ by Fitch.\n\n\"Forbes\" Middle East ranked FGB as the 8th-most powerful company and 4th leading bank in its 2014 ‘Top 500 companies in the Arab World’ list. FGB was also named the ‘Best Bank in the United Arab Emirates’ and ‘Best Wealth Management Firm’ at the Banker Middle East Industry Awards 2014.\n\nThroughout 2014, FGB enhanced its presence in the Asia Pacific market with the launch of a new representative office in South Korea and a Global Wealth Management service at its Singapore branch. The bank also opened a new representative office in London and has announced plans to open a new office in China in the future.\n\nFGB’s other international activities in 2014 include the conclusion of a Negotiable Certificate of Deposit (NCD) programme via its Singapore branch and the issuance of the bank’s debut 250 million Australian dollar (USD 228.35 million) ‘Kangaroo’ 5-year bond. FGB has also received approval for a Sukuk issuance in Malaysia and became the first MENA issuer in the Tokyo Pro-Bond Market, selling a debut 10 billion yen (USD 98.2 million) bond.\n\nIn April 2014, FGB, formerly known as First Gulf Bank, unveiled its current logo after announcing a shift in the bank’s corporate identity. As part of the rebrand, the bank adopted the acronym, ‘FGB’, which was already widely used by its stakeholders. FGB remains First Gulf Bank in Arabic however, and no changes have been made to the bank as a legal entity.\n\nFGB announced to media that the rebrand was part of a long-term strategy to grow the bank locally and internationally, and reflects its UAE and Abu Dhabi heritage, commitment to Emirati development and aspirations and ambitions for further success and growth in the future.\n\nFGB is a sponsor of Ferrari World Abu Dhabi (FWAD), the largest indoor and the only Ferrari-branded theme park in the world. FGB sponsors the Junior GT ride at FWAD, which is part of its driving school where children receive their first training about road safety and discipline and learn about the essential rules they will need to abide by once they start driving.\n\nThe bank also sponsors the Al Ain Sports & Cultural Club and in 2014, launched the ‘FGB Arena’, which is located in Zayed Sports City, Abu Dhabi. The ‘FGB Arena’ is home to a range of regular programmes, from sports and music events through to conferences and exhibitions. Managed by an operator in co-operation with FGB, the venue can accommodate up to 6,000 spectators.\n\n"}
{"id": "1886116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1886116", "title": "French submarine Émeraude (S604)", "text": "French submarine Émeraude (S604)\n\nÉmeraude is a nuclear attack submarine from the first generation of attack submarines of the French Navy.\n\nThe boat is the fourth of the \"Rubis\" series. Between May 1994 and December 1995, the boat undertook a major refitting which upgraded capabilities to the level of the \"Améthyste\".\n\nOn 30 March 1994, an accidental explosion occurred in the engine compartment while the boat was engaged in a naval exercise off Toulon. The explosion killed ten men, including the commander, who were examining the turbo-alternator room. The boat returned to base under diesel and battery power.\n\nIn June 2009, the Émeraude was sent to the mid Atlantic to aid in the search for the flight data recorder and cockpit voice recorder from the ill-fated Air France Flight 447.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1886117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1886117", "title": "New Era Cap Company", "text": "New Era Cap Company\n\nThe New Era Cap Company is an American headwear company headquartered in Buffalo, New York. It was founded in 1920. New Era has over 500 different licenses in its portfolio. Since 1993 they have been the exclusive baseball cap supplier for Major League Baseball (MLB).\n\nIn 1920, Ehrhardt Koch borrowed $1,000 from his sister, Rose, and $1,000 from his co-worker Joe and started his own cap company, the \"E. Koch Cap Company.\" Production started on the third floor of 1830 Genesee Street in Buffalo, New York. The company started with 14 employees, including Ehrhardt’s sister Rose, Ehrhardt's son, Harold, and Rose's son Wally Domas. In 1920, the company produced 60,000 caps.\n\nIn 1934, New Era began producing caps for the Cleveland Indians, which would be their first Major League Baseball (MLB) contract. In 1954, the company’s fitted pro cap was modernized, redesigned and named the 59Fifty, aka the \"Brooklyn Style\" cap, by Harold Koch, who introduced many design improvements and innovations while head of New Era. By 1965, New Era was supplying caps to about 10 of the 20 MLB teams. In 1993, New Era was granted the first exclusive license with MLB to produce the on-field baseball caps for all of its (then 28, now 30) teams.\n\nIn 2001, Chris Koch was named CEO. In the 2010s, while New Era had long been associated with baseball, the company focused on delving into football and other sports leagues. In 2012, it acquired full exclusive sideline rights for the National Football League (NFL). In 2013, New Era signed with Australian cricket's Big Bash League as their official cap provider. New Era signed an additional deal in 2015 with Manchester United. In 2017, New Era signed exclusive rights for NBA on-court product. This made New Era the first headwear company to have exclusive rights for MLB, the NFL, and the NBA simultaneously.\n\nIt was announced on August 13, 2016, that New Era and the Buffalo Bills reached an agreement for naming rights for Ralph Wilson Stadium. The Bills and New Era officially announced the stadium's new name of \"New Era Field\" five days later, on August 18, 2016. After the Bills released CEO Russ Brandon in May 2018, New Era hired Brandon in an executive position. A day later, New Era denied the hiring had taken place. \"The Athletic\", which made the initial claim, continues to insist the hiring happened and that Brandon had been quietly fired after the story broke.\n\nOn September 12, 2018, it was announced that New Era would be the official outfitter for the Canadian Football League starting in the 2019 season. The company has been a licensee of the CFL for headwear and apparel since January 2011 and it will be the first time that the company provides football uniforms and sideline apparel.\n\nIn the summer of 2007, New Era voluntarily pulled three styles of New York Yankees hats from shelves across the country because the designs on the caps were seen to be gang-related. There were three caps that stood out; two with a bandanna like pattern around the top and one with a gold crown. Brian Martinez, an NYPD detective involved with Peace on the Street said \"Bandannas represent gang flags,\" \"New Era is making it really convenient for gang members, because now your flag is part of your hat.\" The patterns on the hats were similar to the flags of the Crips, the Bloods and the Latin Kings. Much of the New York public protested about the caps and in response to these allegations, a New Era spokesperson stated that the company does not market to gangs and when notified by activist groups and public officials, the company took immediate action.\n"}
{"id": "1886123", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1886123", "title": "Arias &amp; Symphonies", "text": "Arias &amp; Symphonies\n\nArias & Symphonies is the second album by the Burlington band Spoons. It contains the highly successful singles \"Nova Heart\" and \"Arias & Symphonies\". It was first released on compact disc in 2000. In 2012, a 30th Anniversary Edition of the album was released on CD with bonus tracks, which are mostly live recordings from Barrymore's, Ottawa, October 26, 1982, originally recorded and broadcast by CHEZ-FM. The iTunes download version includes an extra \"live CD\" of their performance at the El Mocambo in Toronto, June 26, 1982, which was originally broadcast by CHUM-FM.\n\nThe photograph on the album cover is from the Spanish Riding School in Vienna.\n\nAfter the release of the band's first album, \"Stick Figure Neighbourhood\", Gordon Deppe stated \"the album, it wasn't a good representation of what we were capable of...we've got the same kind of attitude towards life but...the songs are taking us around the world. We're getting out of the neighbourhood.\"\n\nDeppe continued by noting that the songs for \"Arias and Symphonies\" would be more dance oriented, as their European influences, such as OMD and Peter Hammill, have done.\n\n\"Arias and Symphonies\" was named one of the 20 Most Influential Albums of the 1980s by \"The Chart Magazine\", and the song \"Nova Heart\" garnered a spot in Bob Mercereau's book \"The Top 100 Canadian Singles\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1886126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1886126", "title": "Elmonica/Southwest 170th Avenue station", "text": "Elmonica/Southwest 170th Avenue station\n\nElmonica/Southwest 170th Avenue is a light rail station on the MAX Blue Line in Elmonica, Washington County, Oregon, United States. Named after a former station on the Oregon Electric Railway, it is the eleventh stop westbound on the Westside MAX. The side platform stop is located between Hillsboro to the west and Beaverton to the east.\n\nThe station has two side platforms. To the northeast of the station is one of the facilities where MAX trains are stored and serviced, called Elmonica Yard, or \"Elmo Yard\" for short. As a result, most trains in the morning start here, and go west to Hillsboro's Hatfield Government Center station before heading to Gresham's Cleveland Avenue station, and service at the end of the day splits between terminating here or Merlo Road/Southwest 158th Avenue, and Hillsboro's Hatfield Government Center station and returning eastward to the yard.\n\nElmonica station is named after the area, which was named after a station on the old Oregon Electric Railway. The MAX line follows the old Oregon Electric right-of-way and shares several stop names with the old interurban. The name derives from the names of the daughters of an owner of land along the route. Samuel B. Stoy, a Portland insurance executive, owned property along the proposed OE line and only gave permission for the railroad to go through his property if the company agreed to name the station after his daughters, Eleanor and Monica. After the station was named Elmonica, this then led to the area around the station becoming known as Elmonica as well.\n\n"}
{"id": "1886128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1886128", "title": "Washington/Southeast 12th Avenue station", "text": "Washington/Southeast 12th Avenue station\n\nWashington/Southeast 12th Avenue is a light rail station on the MAX Blue Line in Hillsboro, Oregon. Hillsboro's West Precinct is near the station. Opened in 1998, it is the 17th stop westbound on the Westside MAX, and the last eastbound stop prior to crossing the Main Street Bridge. This is the last stop westbound to be on a grade-separated right-of-way. One block west of here, trains enter the median of Washington Avenue to run through downtown Hillsboro.\n\nConstruction of the Westside MAX project began in 1994, and on September 12, 1998, the station opened along with the rest of the Westside MAX line. In March 2011, TriMet received a federal grant to pay for the installation of security cameras at the station.\n\nIt is located at the eastern end of Washington Street at 12th Avenue. At this location westbound trains begin operating in the middle of Washington Street on tracks embedded in the pavement. There are bike lockers at the station, but there is not a park and ride lot. The Washington Street Station has bus connections to the 47-Baseline/Evergreen bus line.\n\nThe station was designed by OTAK, Inc. and has side platforms, while the artwork theme was selected by artist Linda Haworth. Located in a Hispanic neighborhood, the public art theme is \"Sweet Home and the Garden of Life\" or \"La Casa Dulce y el Jardin de la Vida.\" The dominate piece of art is a tile wall created from over 650 tiles created by area residents. Other artwork includes photographs etched into the glass of the windscreen, birds in a mosaic on benches, and a weather vane that looks like a snow globe as designed by Nate Slusarenko with images of Mount Hood and vehicles. There is also a path colored to resemble carpet, while the planters at the station resemble kettles used for making cheese in the traditional manner.\n\n"}
{"id": "1886130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1886130", "title": "French submarine Perle (S606)", "text": "French submarine Perle (S606)\n\nPerle is a first-generation nuclear attack submarine of the French Navy.\n\nConstruction began on March 27, 1987, the boat was launched on September 22, 1990 - and entered active duty service on July 7, 1993.\n\nThe boat is the sixth and last of the \"Rubis\" series.\n\nThe boat was deployed in the Royal Navy Auriga 2010 exercise alongside 7 Royal Navy war ships and 1 U.S.Navy destroyer.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1886136", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1886136", "title": "Trigger Happy (book)", "text": "Trigger Happy (book)\n\nTrigger Happy is a book by Steven Poole, examining videogames in terms of their aesthetic appeal - what makes certain games more fun to play than others. It covers aspects such as the effective use of space and perspective in videogames, rewards and progression through games, the design of an appealing video game character and the debate over violence in games.\n\nIn different editions (published by Fourth Estate () and Arcade Publishing (), it has had the subtitles The Inner Life of Videogames and Videogames and the Entertainment Revolution.\n\n\"Trigger Happy\" was released for free in pdf format under a Creative Commons license in 2007. The book may be downloaded from the author's website.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1886139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1886139", "title": "Sørvágsvatn", "text": "Sørvágsvatn\n\nSørvágsvatn or Leitisvatn is the largest lake in the Faroe Islands. It is situated on the island of Vágar between the municipalities of Sørvágur and Vágar. Its area is 3.4 km, more than three times the size of Fjallavatn, the second largest lake, also located on Vágar.\n\nAmong the locals, there is disagreement regarding the name of the lake. The inhabitants of Sørvágur to the west prefer \"Sørvágsvatn\", which means \"the lake by Sørvágur\". The inhabitants of Miðvágur and Sandavágur to the east prefer \"Leitisvatn\", which means \"the lake by Leiti\", referring to the territory on east side of it.\n\nThe village of Miðvágur is situated closer to the lake than Sørvágur, but the latter is considered to have been settled earlier. Sørvágur – alongside Bøur and Sandavágur – is considered one of the three original settlements on Vágar. These divided the land on the island into three equal regions of 60 marks, which would place the lake within Sørvágur's region.\n\nThe locals mostly refer to it as \"Vatnið\" (\"the lake\"), which is understood as a reference to that body of water. It is mostly when people from other parts of the Faroes refer to the lake by one of its given names that the debate will occur.\n\nThe lake is located very close to the ocean, but its surface is about 40 metres above the level of sea. It is surrounded by a higher cliff which prevents it from emptying fully into the ocean, the waterfall Bøsdalafossur being the outlet. The greater height of the cliffs on either side of Bøsdalafossur can give the illusion from certain perspectives that the lake is higher above sea level than it is.\n\nDuring World War II, the British army built an airfield to the west of the lake. They also built a station to support seaplanes. The first aircraft to land on the lake was a Catalina from RAF Coastal Command, in 1941.\n\n\nThere are opportunities for fishing brown trout on the lake. In the summer of 2005 a local initiative was set up for boat excursions on it.\n"}
{"id": "1886158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1886158", "title": "Austin Reed (retailer)", "text": "Austin Reed (retailer)\n\nAustin Reed was a British fashion retailer founded in 1900, and the brand was acquired by Edinburgh Woollen Mill in 2016.\n\nAustin Reed was founded by tailor Austin Leonard Reed (1873–1954).\n\n\nAustin Reed also owned the CC brand (rebranded from Country Casuals).\n\nAustin Reed is mentioned by Captain Peacock on the British situational comedy, \"Are You Being Served.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1886159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1886159", "title": "Microwave spectroscopy", "text": "Microwave spectroscopy\n\nMicrowave spectroscopy is the spectroscopy method that employs microwaves, i.e. electromagnetic radiation at GHz frequencies, for the study of matter.\n\nIn the field of molecular physics, microwave spectroscopy is commonly used to probe the rotation of molecules.\n\nIn the field of condensed matter physics, microwave spectroscopy is used to detect dynamic phenomena of either charges or spins at GHz frequencies (corresponding to nanosecond time scales) and energy scales in the µeV regime. Matching to these energy scales, microwave spectroscopy on solids is often performed as a function of temperature (down to cryogenic regimes of a few K or even lower) and/or magnetic field (with fields up to several T).\nSpectroscopy traditionally considers the frequency-dependent response of materials, and in the study of dielectrics microwave spectroscopy often covers a large frequency range. In contrast, for conductive samples as well as for magnetic resonance, experiments at a fixed frequency are common (using a highly sensitive microwave resonator), but frequency-dependent measurements are also possible.\n\nFor insulating materials (both solid and liquid), probing charge dynamics with microwaves is a part of dielectric spectroscopy.\nAmongst the conductive materials, superconductors are a material class that is often studied with microwave spectroscopy, giving information about penetration depth (governed by the superconducting condensate), energy gap (single-particle excitation of Cooper pairs), and quasiparticle dynamics.\n\nAnother material class that has been studied using microwave spectroscopy at low temperatures are heavy fermion metals with Drude relaxation rates at GHz frequencies.\n\nMicrowaves impinging on matter usually interact with charges as well as with spins (via electric and magnetic field components, respectively), with the charge response typically much stronger than the spin response. But in the case of magnetic resonance, spins can be directly probed using microwaves. For paramagnetic materials, this technique is called electron spin resonance (ESR) and for ferromagnetic materials ferromagnetic resonance (FMR).\nIn the paramagnetic case, such an experiment probes the Zeeman splitting, with a linear relation between the static external magnetic field and the frequency of the probing microwave field. A popular combination, as implemented in commercial X-band ESR spectrometers, is approximately 0.3 T (static field) and 10 GHz (microwave frequency) for a typical material with electron g-factor close to 2.\n"}
{"id": "1886164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1886164", "title": "Fair Complex/Hillsboro Airport station", "text": "Fair Complex/Hillsboro Airport station\n\nFair Complex/Hillsboro Airport is a light rail station on the MAX Blue Line in Hillsboro, Oregon, United States. It is the 16th stop westbound on the Westside MAX, and the last westbound stop prior to crossing the Main Street Bridge. The station is located close to the Washington County Fair Complex and Hillsboro Airport, a major general-aviation facility in Hillsboro, and the location of the Oregon International Airshow in the summer. Bus line 46-North Hillsboro serves the station.\n\nConstruction of TriMet’s Westside MAX project began in 1994, with the Fairplex station opening on September 12, 1998, along with the rest of the line west of Downtown Portland. A person was struck and killed by a MAX train at the station in April 2001. In June 2004, the station was the site of a failed armed robbery where the robber's gun failed to fire. In 2007, plans for redesigning the county fairgrounds were announced and included a proposal to create a large exhibition hall that would connect to the MAX station via a public plaza. In March 2011, TriMet received a federal grant to pay for the installation of security cameras at the station.\n\nLocated south of northeast Cornell Road on northeast 34th Avenue, the station is adjacent to the Washington County Fairplex and directly south of the Hillsboro Airport. Passengers can travel west to downtown Hillsboro or east to Portland and Gresham from the stop. The station has a park-and-ride lot and bus connections to the number 46 line. Designed by architectural firm OTAK Inc., the station features an island platform and a side platform along the two tracks, with a third track to the west used for parking extra trains utilized for increased capacity during special events such as the county fair and the Oregon International Airshow. The station also includes bike lockers and bike racks, is compliant with the Americans with Disabilities Act, and has a seasonal concessions stand.\n\nAs with all stations along the Westside MAX line, the Fair Complex station includes public artwork, with the theme of pride in achievement for this stop. One item is a weather vane featuring five model airplanes designed by Glen Geller and Curt Oliver. These planes have a wingspan of approximately , are based on real historic aircraft, and include a Longster III, a dirigible named \"Gelatine\", the George Yates \"Geodetic\", a Curtiss Pusher, and Van's Aircraft RV-3. An additional piece of art at the station is a large metal sculpture of a trophy designed by Bill Will. Entitled \"World's Greatest\", the wire cup is a topiary covered in ivy sitting atop a cement block base. Additionally, historic photographs featuring the county fair are etched into the glass of the windscreen, while tree rooms create shade.\n\n"}
{"id": "1886166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1886166", "title": "Willow Creek/Southwest 185th Avenue Transit Center", "text": "Willow Creek/Southwest 185th Avenue Transit Center\n\nThe Willow Creek/Southwest 185th Avenue Transit Center is a light rail station and transit center on the MAX Blue Line in Hillsboro, Oregon, United States. Located near the intersection of Baseline Road and 185th Avenue on the eastern edge of the city, it is the twelfth stop westbound on TriMet's Westside MAX, in the Portland metropolitan area. From 2006 to 2007, the station saw nearly 950,000 passengers.\n\nOpened in 1998, the station was originally conceived as the western terminus of the Westside MAX, but the line was extended further west into Hillsboro, due to population growth occurring at the time the line was being planned. Artwork at the stop represents a reading motif, as a library was planned for the station, but never built. Willow Creek is near the Oregon National Primate Research Center and the rest of the Oregon Health & Science University's West Campus in the Tanasbourne neighborhood.\n\nPlanning for a light rail system on Portland's west side started in 1979, with a groundbreaking coming in 1993 on the Westside MAX project. The line originally was to terminate at Willow Creek/185th, but lobbying by Hillsboro mayor Shirley Huffman and others secured funding to extend the line to downtown. Even so, at the time that Westside MAX construction started, this station was planned to the line's outer terminus initially, opening in September 1997, with the section between 185th Avenue and Hillsboro opening later. However, construction of the Downtown Portland-to-185th Avenue section fell behind schedule, due to delays in constructing the Robertson Tunnel through the West Hills, and in 1995 TriMet postponed the opening by one year, to September 1998. Under the new schedule, Willow Creek Transit Center would no longer be the line's terminus, because the delay enabled the Hillsboro extension to \"catch up\" with the original segment and open at the same time.\n\nPlans for the station originally called for the construction of a branch of the Hillsboro Public Library at the stop. Due to cost overruns when building the Robertson Tunnel, the library was canceled and a Books by Rail program was added to the Hillsboro Central station. TriMet also canceled plans for security cameras at the station. The park-and-ride lot opened on March 3, 1997, served by two bus lines (61 and 88), because it was ready for use. Having been built under the original project timeline that called for the station to open September 1997, Willow Creek park-and-ride ended up being completed far in advance of the start of MAX service and related bus-service expansion, after the latter were delayed to 1998.\n\nOn September 12, 1998, Willow Creek Transit Center opened along with the rest of the Westside MAX line. The park-and-ride lot was filled to 67% capacity on average within a few months of the MAX line's opening. In 1999, library officials proposed moving the Books by Rail program to the busier Willow Creek station, but the move did not occur and the program was later canceled due to reduced library funds and a failed library funding levy. By December 1999, Willow Creek was the second-busiest station in terms of boardings on the Hillsboro portion, averaging 2,313 per day. The park-and-ride lot was the fifth busiest on the MAX system by March 2000.\n\nA woman at Willow Creek was hit by MAX train in November 2000. A nearly 400-unit apartment complex was built adjacent to the station in 2003. In 2005, a stabbing occurred at the stop, and in 2007 a rider forced off the MAX by TriMet then attempted to assault someone at the neighboring apartment complex.\n\nOf the 16 MAX stations on the west side, Willow Creek had the third-highest number of boardings for the 2006–2007 fiscal year, with an estimated 947,000, and the most calls for police assistance with 971. In 2008, TriMet secured a grant from the Transportation Security Administration to allow the transit agency to add security cameras to the station. Portland Community College (PCC) began construction of a training center at the station in 2008, with the $25 million facility then opened in 2009. TriMet had planned to build a third track in 2009 at the station in order to allow the extension of the Red Line to Willow Creek using federal stimulus funds, but canceled the project due to projected costs.\n\nWillow Creek is located just northwest of the intersection of Baseline Road and Southwest 185th Avenue. The station includes a park-and-ride lot along with racks and lockers for bicycles. With 595 parking spaces, the parking lot is the second biggest park-and-ride on the MAX line after the Sunset Transit Center. As with all MAX stations, it is Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) compliant and has ticket vending machines on the island-type platform. Willow Creek also has a concessions stand next to the bus plaza. The station serves the east Hillsboro and west Beaverton areas, and is located about north of Aloha. This includes Oregon Health & Science University's West Campus in the Tanasbourne neighborhood of Hillsboro, including the Oregon National Primate Research Center.\nThe transit center is served by TriMet bus lines 52, 59 and 88. Midibuses of Columbia County's \"CC Rider\" transit service also stop there on weekdays, providing direct service to Scappoose and St. Helens. Landscaping at the station included trees that bloom (cherry), which TriMet traditionally shuns in favor of non-blooming tree species due to higher maintenance costs of the blooming trees. These were replaced by non-blooming trees during construction of the PCC building in 2008. The station was designed by architectural firm OTAK of Lake Oswego.\n\nArtwork at the transit center includes large, stone, Victorian themed chairs and tables that have literary names etched into them. These represent reading rooms that were to complement the originally planned library. The reading theme continues with embedded-tile word puzzles in the floor of the platform. These puzzles include names of authors and characters.\n\nThere are also various letters from different alphabets from around the globe in the concrete. Additionally, brick TriMet buildings at the station include an abstract pattern designed to mimic the falling cherry blossoms from the nearby trees. A work by artist Christopher Rauschenberg memorializes the landscape of the site prior to the construction of MAX, etching the work into the windows of the platform's wind break.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1886171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1886171", "title": "Hitch-hiker's Guide to Europe", "text": "Hitch-hiker's Guide to Europe\n\nThe Hitch-hiker's Guide to Europe () was a guide book, copyright 1971 by Ken Welsh and first published that year in the UK by Pan Books. A first American edition was published in 1972 by Stein and Day, New York, NY, USA. \n\nFactual information on specific countries/regions was broken down into (using the book's original chapter headings):\nFurther information was broken down into sections on:\n\nThe book is long out of print, though it may be found in used-book shops. Updated editions were printed in 1974, 1975, 1986 (with the full title \"Hitchhiker's Guide to Europe: The 1986 Guidebook for People on a Hitchhiking Budget\"), and an edition in 1988 had the subtitle \"How to See Europe by the Skin of Your Teeth.\" The book was co-edited by Katie Wood from 1993 and the final edition appeared in 1996. \n\nThe book promised that any other ways of saving money would be accepted as a submission by the publishers and printed with a credit in subsequent editions. \n\nIn the US edition's introduction it states that it is possible to survive a trip in Europe on less than twenty-five US dollars per week. The US edition also included such information as US dollar to other currency exchange rates (current as of January 1972), weight and measurement conversion charts, and brief lists of phrases and numbers for French, German, Spanish and Italian. \n\nThe title of the book inspired the title of Douglas Adams's \"The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1886173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1886173", "title": "DJ Nu-Mark", "text": "DJ Nu-Mark\n\nMark Potsic, better known by his stage name DJ Nu-Mark (born June 10, 1971), is an American hip hop producer and DJ. He is a member of Jurassic 5, as well as the owner of Hot Plate Records. He has collaborated with and produced for a variety of artists across different genres, including J-Live, Aloe Blacc, Charles Bradley, and Bumpy Knuckles, among others.\n\nIn 2004, the \"Hands On\" mixtape was released on Sequence Records. In 2012, DJ Nu-Mark released the album titled \"Broken Sunlight\" on Hot Plate Records. In 2014, \"Slimkid3 & DJ Nu-Mark\", his collaborative album with Slimkid3, was released on Delicious Vinyl.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1886178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1886178", "title": "HKMLC Queen Maud Secondary School", "text": "HKMLC Queen Maud Secondary School\n\nHKMLC Queen Maud Secondary School () is located in Hau Tak Estate, Tseung Kwan O, New Territories, Hong Kong. It is a memorial school for the Norwegian queen Maud of Wales, sponsored by the HK & Macau Lutheran Church. The school was founded in 1950, and its mission is \"to provide students with all-round education based on biblical truths\".\n\nThe Houses are named admiration, righteousness, faith, love, virtue and benevolence.\n\n"}
{"id": "1886183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1886183", "title": "Klaha", "text": "Klaha\n\n, aka Klaha (born May 3), is a Japanese singer-songwriter. He was the third vocalist for visual kei rock band Malice Mizer.\n\nHis first band was the new wave group Pride of Mind, active from 1992-1996. He first played with Malice Mizer in 2000, on their single \"Shiroi Hada ni Kuruu Ai to Kanashimi no Rondo\", providing vocals, although he was credited as \"Fourth blood relative\". He then provided vocals on their album \"Bara no Seidou\". A year after Malice Mizer, Klaha started a solo career, but with a drastic change of style he performed pop music. After a live appearance in April 2004, Klaha's releases and performances stopped without explanation. In 2007, he stated that he would be returning that year, but nothing happened and no information has been given since his abrupt leave in 2004.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1886184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1886184", "title": "Debra Williams", "text": "Debra Williams\n\nDebra Williams may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1886189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1886189", "title": "Close-Up (1990 film)", "text": "Close-Up (1990 film)\n\nClose-Up (, \"Klūzāp, nemā-ye nazdīk\") is a 1990 Iranian docufiction written, directed and edited by Abbas Kiarostami. The film tells the story of the real-life trial of a man who impersonated film-maker Mohsen Makhmalbaf, conning a family into believing they would star in his new film. It features the people involved, acting as themselves. A film about human identity, it helped to increase recognition of Kiarostami in the West.\n\nMany critics consider \"Close-Up\" a masterpiece of world cinema; in the 2012 \"Sight & Sound\" poll, it was voted by critics onto \"The Top 50 Greatest Films of All Time\" list.\n\nHossain Sabzian is a cinephile, and in particular a big fan of popular Iranian director Mohsen Makhmalbaf. One day, Sabzian is riding a bus with a copy of a published screenplay of \"The Cyclist\"; Mrs. Ahankhah sits next to him, revealing she is a fan of the film. Sabzian tells her that he himself is Makhmalbaf, the creator and learns that her sons are interested in film. Posing as Makhmalbaf, Sabzian visits the Ahankhah family several times over the next two weeks. He flatters them by saying he wants to use their house in his next film and their sons as actors. He also borrows 1,900 tomans from one of the sons for cab fare. Mr. Ahankhah starts to suspect him as an imposter trying to rob them, especially when a magazine photograph shows a younger Makhmalbaf with darker hair. He invites a journalist, Hossain Farazmand, who confirms that Sabzian is indeed an impostor. The police come to arrest Sabzian, while Farazmand takes several pictures for his upcoming article titled \"Bogus Makhmalbaf Arrested\".\n\nKiarostami visits Sabzian in prison and helps to move his trial up, and receives permission from the judge to record the trial. At the trial, Sabzian is tried for fraud and attempted fraud. He reveals his motivations for the imitation as love for Makhmalbaf's film and cinema, while the Ahankhah's son recounts his visits as they started to suspect him. Due to his circumstances as a young father with no prior record and his remorse, the judge asks the family if they would be willing to pardon Sabzian. They agree in exchange for him becoming a productive member of society. After the trial, the real Makhmalbaf meets Sabzian and gives him a ride back to the Ahankhah's house, with Kiarostami's crew following. When they meet Mr. Ahankhah, he says of Sabzian: \"I hope he'll be good now and make us proud of him.\"\n\nThe film references one of Kiarostami's previous films, the 1974 soccer drama \"The Traveler\" (considered by the director to be his first 'authentic' feature).\n\nIt also mentions \"The Cyclist\", a 1987 sports drama film made by the real Mohsen Makhmalbaf three years prior to \"Close-Up\".\n\n\"Close-Up\" is based on real events that occurred in Northern Tehran in the late 1980s. Kiarostami first heard about Sabzian in 1989 after reading about the incident in an article in the Iranian magazine \"Sorush\" by journalist Hassan Farazmand. Kiarostami immediately suspended work on the film project that he was in pre-production of and began making a documentary on Sabzian. Kiarostami was allowed to film Sabzian's trial and also got Sabzian, the Ahankhahs and Farazmand to agree to participate in the film and to re-enact incidents from the past. Kiarostami also arranged for Mohsen Makhmalbaf to meet Sabzian and help facilitate forgiveness between Sabzian and the Ahankhahs.\n\nWhen the film opened in Iran, reviews were almost uniformly negative, and the film only began to be appreciated after it was shown abroad.\"The New York Times\" film critic Stephen Holden called the film \"brilliant,\" noting its \"radically drab cinema-verite style that helps blur any difference between what is real and what is reconstructed.\"\n\nIn 2010 \"Los Angeles Times\" critic Dennis Lim called the film eloquent and direct and that it provided \"a window into the psyche of a complicated man and into the social and cultural reality of Iran.\" In 2012 it ranked #43 in the British Film Institute's critics' poll of the 50 best films ever made.\n\nFive years after \"Close-Up\", Moslem Mansouri and Mahmoud Chokrollahi wrote and directed the documentary \"Close-Up Long Shot\" (, \" Klūzāp nemā-ye dūr\") in which Sabzian talks about his infatuation with cinema, his impersonation of Makhmalbaf and how his life has changed after working with Kiarostami. The film premiered at Turin's 14° Festival internazionale cinema giovani in November 1996 where it won the FIPRESCI Prize – Special Mention.\n\nNanni Moretti's 1996 Italian short film \"Opening Day of Close-Up\" follows a theater owner as he prepares to show Kiarostami's film at his independent cinema.\n\nMarcus Söderlund's 2007 music video for Swedish duo The Tough Alliance's \"A New Chance\" pays homage to Kiarostami's film with an almost shot-for-shot reproduction of a scene following two characters on a motorcycle.\n\nIn 2006, Hossain Sabzian died at age 52 after suffering a heart attack. He suffered respiratory failure on the Tehran metro in August, slipped into a coma, and died on September 29.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1886191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1886191", "title": "Specialist degree", "text": "Specialist degree\n\nThe specialist degree is an academic degree conferred by a college or university. The degree is formatted differently worldwide and may be either a five-year program or a doctoral level graduate program that occurs after a master's degree but before a doctoral degree.\n\nThe Diploma of Specialist ( • ) is a five-year higher-education diploma that was the only first higher-education diploma in the former Soviet Union (the Candidate of Sciences was the first academic level degree while the Doctor of Sciences was the highest academic credential) and continues to be offered throughout the USSR successor states in parallel with the new bachelor's degree. In terms of the number of instructional hours it is typically, 35 to 42 classroom hours per week, 34 weeks of instruction plus 6 weeks of exams per academic year. Commonly referred to simply as \"Diploma\" ( • ), the Soviet/Russian-style Diploma of Specialist is believed to have originated in the engineering education in the Russian Empire. According to the Ministry of Education and Science of Russia, the specialist degree called qualification (degree) of \"specialist\" ( • ).\n\nIn the early 1990s the \"bakalavr\" (bachelor) and \"magistr\" (master) were introduced in all countries of the Commonwealth of Independent States except Turkmenistan and Tajikistan. However, Diploma of Specialist (five years) is still conferred in Belarus, Russia and Tajikistan. The Diploma of Specialist was discontinued in the following countries: Kazakhstan (2004), Ukraine (2017), Georgia, Azerbaijan, Uzbekistan, and Moldova.\n\nUnder the Federal Law on Education of Russia, the Diploma of Specialist requires a minimum of five years of study.\n\nBelow are some examples of Diploma of Specialist programs in the former USSR and Russia:\n\nIn the United States, the Specialist's degree is hierarchically above the master's degree and below the Doctorate. It was invented by colleges and schools of education as an alternative to obtaining a doctorate, and focuses on subjects pertinent to K-12 education - such as leadership and counseling, and educational psychology.\n\nDegrees commonly available include:\n\nThe American Specialist degree typically requires 30 semester hours or 45 quarter hours beyond the master's degree (60 semester hours or 90 quarter hours beyond the Baccalaureate) and can be completed in one to three academic years of continuous full-time or part-time enrolment. Depending on the particular program, practica and / or internship and / or practical field work may be required. Students admitted directly from the baccalaureate may earn a Master's degree in progression toward the Specialist's degree; or the institution may accept applications only from students who already hold a master's degree.\n\nThe coursework for an Ed.S. or Sp.A. in Education program is approximately the same workload as a second Master's in terms of credits. But whereas coursework for the initial master's degree is from the introductory and lower intermediate levels of graduate study (e.g. Levels 500 and 600 at institutions that use 100 - 900 level course numbering systems), work for the Specialist's degree will be in the intermediate and upper levels (e.g. 600, 700 and 800 level courses). According to the U.S. Department of Education's International Affairs Office's leaflet, entitled, \"Structure of the U.S. Education System: Intermediate Graduate Qualifications,\" (Feb 2008), the Ed.S., as a degree, is equivalent to the D.Min. or Psy.D. / D.Psy. This reflects the degree's origin as an alternate to professional doctorates.\n\nEd.S. programs lead to professional degrees in the application of advanced educational theory but do not typically place an emphasis on conducting original research such as in Ed.D. / D.Ed. or Ph.D. programs.\n\n\"School Psychology\" and \"Curriculum and Instruction\" are two of the most common areas where a specialist degree is found. In the field of school psychology, the degree is typically an Ed.S. or SSP. Despite being virtually identical in scope and function, the Ed.S. and SSP both exist within the field of school psychology because training programs can be offered within the departments of psychology or education. They simply designate the type of program from which the degree originated. As another alternative, some programs within psychology departments have begun offering a Psy.S. degree instead of an SSP.\n\nIn many fields outside of education, the \"postgraduate certificate\" fills the same need as a Specialist degree - but differs in being an academic \"certificate\" rather than an academic \"degree\". Postgraduate or graduate certificates typically require one-third to one-half the coursework of a master's degree and an offered in a specific topical area, such as a Certificate in Historic Preservation.\n\nCertain graduate programs are \"de facto\" specialist degrees. In the field of Engineering, the Engineer's degree is a post-Master's degree, offered at a modest number of US universities (but including some prestigious ones such as Stanford and Caltech), which is relatively analogous to the Specialist degree. In French higher education, the \"Mastère Spécialisé\" is a degree designed essentially as a post-Master's degree, offered as a full-time, one-year program (although there are \"Executive\" versions of this degree, designed for working professionals, which take a little longer to complete). As such, this French degree also forms a close analogy to its US counterpart, although the \"Mastère Spécialisé\" is offered in a variety of fields such as business, informatics, and aeronautics.\n"}
{"id": "1886200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1886200", "title": "Scale armour", "text": "Scale armour\n\nScale armour (or scale mail) is an early form of armour consisting of many individual small armour scales (plates) of various shapes attached to each other and to a backing of cloth or leather in overlapping rows. Scale armour was worn by warriors of many different cultures as well as their horses. The material used to make the scales varied and included bronze, iron, steel, rawhide, leather, cuir bouilli, seeds, horn, or pangolin scales. The variations are primarily the result of material availability.\n\nScale armour – a defence of very great antiquity – began in the Middle East. The earliest representation is the tomb of Kenamon, who lived in Egypt in the reign of Amenhotep II (1436–1411 BCE).\n\nScale armour is armour in which the individual scales are sewn or laced to a backing by one or more edges and arranged in overlapping rows resembling the scales of a fish/reptile or roofing tiles. The scales are usually assembled and strapped by lacing or rivets. Lorica squamata is an ancient Roman armour of this type.\n\nOther types of armour made from individual scales but constructed in a different manner have their own separate names, such as lamellar armour where the individual scales are perforated on several or all edges and lashed tightly to each other in straight ridged rows and do not need to be attached to a backing. The Romans also had a variant called lorica plumata in which the scales were attached to mail.\n\nThe Scythians' horse warriors appear to have used scale or possibly lamellar armour, evident both from contemporary illustrations and burial finds in kurgans. The armour was made from small plates of iron or bronze. Unique to the Scythians, about 20% of the females found in graves were dressed for war, some including armour, which may have inspired the Greek tales of Amazons.\n\nDue to the semi-rigid nature of the armour, the Scythian variety was made as breast- and back-plates, with separate shoulder pieces. Some finds indicate partial armour, where a leather shirt or similar garment have sewn-on scales in places, particularly around the neck and upper chest.\n\nThe individual scales used to construct Roman armour are called \"squamae\" or \"squama\"\nDuring Roman times, scale armour (\"lorica squamata\") was a popular alternative to mail (\"lorica hamata\") as it offered better protection against blunt force trauma. It was also widely used in Middle Eastern empires, such as Persia and Byzantium. In these areas, scales were commonly dished (that is with a bowl effect from a depression being hammered into a flat piece of metal) in order to benefit from the extra protection offered by a rounded scale.\n\nAccording to the statement of Herodotus, the ancient Persians wore tunics with sleeves of diverse colours, having upon them iron scales of the shape of fish-scales; and this comparison leaves no doubt that scale armour, and not mail, is meant.\n\nScale armour is not of frequent occurrence on the grave monuments of the German frontier. On two tombstones of the Sertorii at Verona (one that of a centurion, the other that of a standard-bearer) both figures are represented wearing a tunic of scale armour which covers the shoulders and comes down below the belt. The Carnuntum monument of Calidius (a work of the middle of the first century) shows also a scaled tunic of a centurion. Again, in the collection of marble portrait-busts from the great Gallo-Roman villa of Chiragan near Toulouse, the Emperors Antoninus Pius and Severus both appear wearing corselets of scale armour.\n\nScale armour consisting of many plates and studs were used for the military officers from the Samgukji era pre 1000BC and were very effective against light missiles such as arrows. It was also used in the battles against Japanese invasion during the 14-1500 era, which proved the armour against Japanese weapons.\n\nHorses covered with scale armour are mentioned in the ancient Chinese book of poetry \"Shi Jing\".\n\nJapanese (samurai) individual scales are called \"kozane\".\nJapanese scale armour constructed from fish type scales were reportedly constructed in Japan as far back as the Fujiwara period (11th century). \"A primitive type of Japanese harness, the single laminae being of boiled leather, cut and beaten into pieces shaped like fish-scales.\"\n\nScale armour offers better and more solid protection from piercing and blunt attacks than maille. It is also cheaper to produce, but it is not as flexible and does not offer the same amount of coverage. Forms other than brigandine and coat of plates were uncommon in medieval Europe, but scale and lamellar remained popular elsewhere.\n\nModern forms of scale armour are sometimes worn for decorative or LARP purposes, and may be made from materials such as steel, aluminium, or even titanium.\n\nA similar type of modern personal armour is Dragon Skin body armour, which uses ballistic fabric and high-impact resistant ceramic plates to protect against pistol and rifle fire. However, its \"scales\" are not exposed.\n"}
{"id": "1886211", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1886211", "title": "Quatama station", "text": "Quatama station\n\nQuatama, formerly Quatama/Northwest 205th Avenue, is a light rail station on the MAX Blue Line in Hillsboro, Oregon, United States. The station is the seventh stop eastbound on the Westside MAX from downtown Hillsboro and includes a park-and-ride lot. Quatama Station is named after the area which includes Quatama Road to the south of the station. Opened in 1998, the stop is near high-tech industries and the Amberglen business park, which includes Oregon Health & Science University's West Campus and the Oregon National Primate Research Center. With the renaming of Northwest 205th Avenue to Northeast John Olsen Avenue by the city of Hillsboro in 2017, TriMet changed the station's name from its original, longer name.\n\nDuring the planning stages of a westside light rail line, Hillsboro rezoned much of the area around the station to increase building densities. Initial planning began in 1979, with groundbreaking on the Westside MAX project coming in 1993. On September 12, 1998, the Quatama station opened along with the Westside MAX line. The area around the station was named Quatama after the former station on the Oregon Electric Railway. That train stop was near the current one and was on property owned by the Oregon Nursery Company and settled in part by Hungarians.\n\nIn 1998, and again in 2004, the weather vane at the station was vandalized. Within several months of opening, the park-and-ride lot was at 92% capacity and by July 1999, the lot was filled to capacity during the peak travel times on the MAX line. A fight injured a 17-year-old at the station in October 2000. Hillsboro planned to improve street connections to the station as part of the planned redevelopment in the south Tanasbourne area announced in 2006.\n\nThe station’s platform was vandalized in a graffiti spree in June 2007 along with several surrounding developments. In October of that year a 12-year-old was attacked with a hammer at the station. In 2008, TriMet secured a grant from the Transportation Security Administration to allow the transit agency to add security cameras to the station.\n\nIn September 2017, the station was renamed from Quatama/Northwest 205th Avenue station to Quatama station, in connection with street-name changes approved by the Hillsboro city council in October 2016. The changes included the renaming of NW 205th Avenue within Hillsboro as NE John Olsen Avenue, scheduled for October 2017.\n\nDesigned by the architectural group OTAK Inc., the station features a single island platform between the two tracks. Located on northwest Quatama Road at northwest 205th Avenue in Hillsboro, the station is served by the MAX Blue Line. The station includes a park-and-ride lot, bike lockers, bike racks, has a variety of public artwork, and is compliant with the Americans with Disabilities Act. It was situated in fare zone 3 until TriMet discontinued all use of fare zones, in September 2012. The station sits on on the south side of the rail line. Construction of townhomes and condominiums in the area was a result of the station.\n\nArtwork at the station has a theme of understanding nature. One piece of art reflecting that theme at the stop is a weather vane designed by Michael Oppenheimer. The weather vane is titled “Cattail Tunes” and is based on the plant that grows in nearby wetlands. Constructed of stainless steel rods, the piece is composed of five rods standing tall and six feet apart. The rods are topped with metal cattail heads, each a different height so that they sway differently from each other.\n\nContinuing with the natural elements theme, the platform has animal tracks etched into the concrete while the windscreen in the passenger shelter includes a map of the watershed for the Tualatin River etched into the glass. Across from the platform is a plaza entitled “Flow” which features a simulated creek in the concrete. Along the creek are boulders that have scientific images engraved into them, along with a water basin that illustrates how water run-off occurs. The inspiration for this artwork comes from an arrangement made by a Japanese macaque at the Oregon National Primate Research Center across the street from the station. Designers for the artwork at Quatama Station were Jerry Mayer, Valerie Otani, Bill Will, and Fernanda D'Agostino.\n\nQuatama station was served by one TriMet bus line, 49s-Quatama, from September 1999 to February 2004. Line 49s (\"s\" for shuttle) connected the station with areas to the north, including the former Oregon Graduate Institute. Low ridership was the reason for its elimination in 2004.\n\n"}
{"id": "1886213", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1886213", "title": "Hawthorn Farm station", "text": "Hawthorn Farm station\n\nHawthorn Farm is a light rail station on the MAX Blue Line in Hillsboro, Oregon, United States. Opened in 1998, it is the 15th stop westbound on the Westside MAX. The TriMet owned station does not have a parking lot nor bus connections. Artwork at the station utilizes electronics to provide waiting passengers with indicators of approaching trains, the wind's direction, and sounds from a neighboring wetlands area. The name of the station comes from the name of the family who once owned a farm and a historic home on the land, and is shared with a business park and an Intel campus.\n\nPlanning for the light rail system on Portland's west side began in 1979, with groundbreaking coming in 1993 on the Westside MAX project. During planning, the stop was part of the planning area that included the Fair Complex/Hillsboro Airport station. On September 12, 1998, Hawthorn Farm station opened along with the rest of the Westside MAX line.\n\nIn March 2000, an escaped rapist was chased from the station and caught by citizens nearby. The low rider 41s bus line connected to the station until canceled in 2002. In July 2006, a rider was chased off the train at the station and beaten by two teenagers. Hawthorn Farm had an estimated 110,000 boardings for the 2006 to 2007 fiscal year, and 34 calls for police assistance. In March 2011, TriMet received a federal grant to pay for the installation of security cameras at the station.\n\nLocated on Elam Young Parkway, the station is on the Blue Line in TriMet’s Zone 3 fare area. The station is directly south of Intel’s Hawthorn Farm Campus south of Cornell Road in the middle of Hillsboro. Hawthorn Farm Station does not have a park and ride lot nor does it have any bus connections. The station does have bicycle lockers and racks, and is compliant with ADA standards for accessibility. Designed by architectural firm OTAK, the station has an island style platform located between the two sets of rails.\n\nArt at the station was designed by Patrick Zentz and includes a weathervane with technical assistance provided by Intel employees. The weathervane sets off a system that has sounds and lights on the platform and informs waiting passengers of the wind’s direction. This system is also activated when trains approach the station. Additionally, sounds from the adjacent wetlands are piped to the station. The glass of the windbreak on the platform includes a diagram concerning the artwork at the station The three pieces of work are known as Subsystem I, II, and III, and are considered the most technically advanced pieces of art on the MAX line. Subsystem I has tone bars made of chrome that sound as trains approach, and Subsystem II uses lights and sound to indicate the wind direction. The third piece plays the sounds of the wetlands.\n\n"}
{"id": "1886214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1886214", "title": "Orenco station (TriMet)", "text": "Orenco station (TriMet)\n\nOrenco, formerly known as Orenco/Northwest 231st Avenue, is a light rail station in Hillsboro, Oregon, United States, served by TriMet as part of its MAX Light Rail system. It is the sixth eastbound stop on the Blue Line, which connects the cities of Hillsboro, Beaverton, Portland, and Gresham. The island platform station is situated between the and stations and serves the Orenco Station neighborhood. The neighborhood is considered a positive model for smart growth and transit-oriented development, and is home to Intel's Ronler Acres campus.\n\nAn Oregon Electric Railway depot of the same name served the nearby area in the early 20th century. The TriMet station was built as part of the Westside MAX project, which extended MAX service from downtown Portland to downtown Hillsboro in 1998. With the city's renaming of Northwest 231st Avenue to Northeast Century Boulevard in 2017, TriMet simplified the station's name to its current form. The station includes a 125-space park and ride lot, secure bike parking, and a connection to TriMet's 47–Baseline/Evergreen bus line.\n\nThe station is named for the former company town of Orenco, a community founded in 1906 by the Salem-based Oregon Nursery Company, which had purchased of land in Washington County as part of a plan to expand its operations in the Portland area. The Oregon Electric Railway made the town a part of its branch line between Portland and Forest Grove in 1908 at the behest of the company, laying tracks through nursery property and building a depot just east of where the present light rail station is located. In 1913, the year the town incorporated, the Orenco depot served an average of 1,000 passengers per month. The outbreak of World War I resulted in severe economic setbacks for the Oregon Nursery Company, having disrupted its plans to expand into Europe. Following years of financial hardship, the company filed for bankruptcy and closed in 1927. In 1932, the Oregon Electric Railway's branch service ceased as a result of the Great Depression and competition from automobiles. The city government was dissolved in 1938.\n\nThe former town and its vicinity remained rural for decades after, becoming known primarily as a site for illegal dumping. In the 1950s, much of the area was subdivided and sold to development ventures, many of which failed. The city of Hillsboro initiated annexation plans and consolidation of land ownership with the creation of an urban renewal district in 1983. Consolidated land was later sold to Intel and Pacific Realty Associates, the latter of which would eventually develop the transit-oriented, mixed-use community of Orenco Station.\n\nPlanning for a light rail line extending west from Portland began in 1979, with initial plans terminating at 185th Avenue, east of the old Orenco townsite. The efforts of Hillsboro Mayor Shirley Huffman and others helped to extend the planned line farther west, through Orenco to downtown Hillsboro, in July 1993. The cost of the Hillsboro extension, estimated at $224 million, required approval for an additional $75 million of federal funding, which was granted in 1994. TriMet began construction of the Westside MAX project in August 1993; track construction between 12th Avenue and 185th Avenue in Hillsboro, the segment which included Orenco, commenced in April 1996. The line was scheduled to open from Portland to 185th Avenue in 1997, and to Hillsboro in 1998, but delays during the construction of the Robertson Tunnel pushed most of its opening back by one year. Orenco station opened along with the rest of the Westside MAX line on September 12, 1998.\n\nIn September 2017, the station was renamed from Orenco/Northwest 231st Avenue to simply Orenco, in connection with street-name changes approved by the Hillsboro city council in October 2016. The changes included the January 2017 renaming of Northwest 231st Avenue within Hillsboro as Northeast Century Boulevard.\n\nLocated south of Northeast Cornell Road on Northeast Orenco Station Loop and west of Northeast Century Boulevard, the station serves the Orenco Station neighborhood and was within TriMet's fare zone 3 until the agency discontinued all use of fare zones in 2012. Designed by OTAK Inc., it features an island platform between the two tracks that consists of a shelter, ticket vending machines, and a passenger information display. The station includes a 24-hour park and ride lot with 125 spaces and a nearby 50-space secure bike parking facility operated by BikeLink. Between the station and Northeast Cherry Drive is Plaza Park, a public plaza bounded by mid-rise, mixed-use buildings that collectively make up the Platform District.\n\nDuring Orenco station's early planning stages, the city of Hillsboro and TriMet imposed high-density development restrictions, despite the opposition of existing residents. In April 1994, Hillsboro approved an interim ordinance detailing planning standards for the area within a quarter-mile to a half-mile of the station, setting a population density goal of 45 residents per acre. The Orenco Neighborhood Association challenged the ordinance in the Oregon Court of Appeals; the court ruled in favor of the city in July 1995. Two months later, a compromise was reached to allow granny-flat homes to be included in the zoning plans, lowering the initial density target to 34.5 residents per acre.\n\nPacific Reality Associates, which acquired of land near the station, developed much of the Orenco Station neighborhood. In the late 1990s, the developer built 450 homes on lots averaging , about twenty percent smaller than a typical lot at the time, with floor plans that averaged ; 1,400 apartments; retail stores; and offices.\n\nThe area immediately north of the station, among the last parcels of land to be filled, was approved for development in 2013. The $120 million Platform District, developed by Holland Partners Group, features three six-story, mixed-use buildings that include more than 1,000 housing units and of retail space. The first of the three buildings, \"The Hub\", was completed in February 2015. At the district's center is Plaza Park, a half-acre urban plaza that consists of a water feature, a colorful pergola, and a raised deck built around two white oak trees. The plaza is designed to host outdoor public events.\n\nArtwork at the station follows the themes of a celebration of trees and the history of Orenco. The artwork incorporates a grove of trees adjacent to the station that was preserved at the behest of the artists in charge of the artwork for the stop. Individual works of art include \"Rings of Memory Plaza\", which consists of concentric circles of granite inscribed with text by Oregon Poet Laureate Kim Stafford. Another piece is a gravel path with stone seat walls leading to an old oak grove entitled \"Witness Tree Rest\", which includes another line by Stafford inscribed on the granite threshold at the east end of the path. \"Grafted Path\", a pathway that connects the station to Northeast Century Boulevard, illustrates the grafting method that distinguished Oregon Nursery Company trees. East of the station is \"Grove of Perspective\", made up of rows of trees that create optical effects when viewed from the moving train.\n\nOn the platform is a piece entitled \"Branch Benches\", located in the passenger shelters, which are custom-made benches designed by Nancy Merritt and bracketed by wisteria-covered arbors. On top of the systems building sits a hand-forged sculpture of a tree, designed by Stuart Keeler and Michael Machnic. This weather vane spreads its roots and rises up through a nine-square grid that represents the city plan of Orenco.\n\nOrenco station is situated between the and stations and is served by the MAX Blue Line, which runs from the station westbound to downtown Hillsboro and eastbound through Beaverton and Portland to Gresham. It recorded 1,297 average weekday boardings in fall 2018. Trains serve the station for approximately 22 hours per day on weekdays, 21½ hours on Saturdays, and 19½ hours on Sundays. The headway between trains measures from as little as five minutes during weekday rush hour to 30 minutes in the early mornings and late evenings, while the majority of trains run every fifteen minutes. From the station, trains take thirteen minutes to reach Hatfield Government Center station in Hillsboro, 39 minutes to reach Pioneer Courthouse Square in downtown Portland, and 92 minutes to reach Cleveland Avenue station in Gresham. Orenco station also provides a connection to TriMet bus route 47–Main/Evergreen, which runs from Monday to Friday between Hillsboro Central Transit Center and the Rock Creek campus of Portland Community College.\n\nThe station was originally served by a TriMet bus route designated 42s–Orenco (\"s\" for shuttle), in addition to route 47, introduced with the station's opening in 1998. Route 42s was eliminated as a separate route in December 2001, when it was combined with route 47 but with a section along Orenco Station Parkway and Butler Road discontinued without replacement.\n\n"}
{"id": "1886217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1886217", "title": "Maverik Center", "text": "Maverik Center\n\nThe Maverik Center, originally known as the E Center, is a 12,000 seat multi-purpose arena located in West Valley City, Utah, United States. Construction on the arena started in 1996 and was completed in time to hold its first event on September 22, 1997. The arena is owned by West Valley City, and managed by Centennial Management Group, Inc.\n\nDuring the 2002 Winter Olympics it served as the main venue for the ice hockey events, and as the venue for ice sledge hockey during the 2002 Winter Paralympics. Today the arena is home to the Utah Grizzlies, and it is also a major venue in the area for numerous concerts and live touring productions.\n\nIn July 1995, only a month after winning the 2002 Winter Olympic bid, the Salt Lake Organizing Committee (SLOC) accepted a proposal from West Valley City to build a new ice hockey facility in their city. SLOC loaned $7 million to the city for construction costs, and would rent the arena from the city during the Olympic Games. The arena would be funded through a variety of ways, but would be owned by the municipality of West Valley City, and used for various events before and after the games. Ground was broken for the arena on March 22, 1996, and construction was completed in September 1997; the E Center was officially dedicated in a ceremony on September 19, 1997. The first event held in the new venue was WCW's \"Monday Nitro Live\" on September 22, 1997, notable for being the in-ring debut of Bill Goldberg.\n\nIn 2010, Centennial Management Group and West Valley City, announced that a new partnership (which included naming rights) had been reached with Maverik, Inc., owners of convenience stores throughout the Intermountain West. The sponsorship deal is a multi-year agreement, which included exclusive sponsorship and advertising rights, prominent signage on the exterior and interior of the building, along with a name change to the Maverik Center. Additionally, the venue now features Maverik's proprietary \"adventure theme\", a Maverik concession outlet, and exclusively sells a number of Maverik proprietary products.\n\nThe venue's primary tenant is the ECHL's Utah Grizzlies. The Grizzlies have played at the arena since replacing the AHL's former team of the same name in 2005.\n\nThe arena used to be home to the Utah Freezz of the World Indoor Soccer League from 1999 to 2001.\n\nThe PBR hosted a Built Ford Tough Series event at the E Center in 2007; it was the PBR's first stop in the Salt Lake City area since 2000, when they visited the Delta Center.\n\nIn indoor football, the arena previously hosted the Utah Warriors of the National Indoor Football League from 2003 to 2004. In the 2010 season, the E Center became the home for the re-launched Arena Football League's version of the Utah Blaze (formerly the Utah Valley Thunder) that ceased operations when the AFL declared bankruptcy and suspended operations in 2009. However, the Blaze returned to their old home at the EnergySolutions Arena for the 2011 season. In 2017, the arena was used for the home games of the Salt Lake Screaming Eagles, a team in the Indoor Football League that used fan interaction to help run the team.\n\nThe arena served as one of the venues for ice hockey during the 2002 games, with events spread out during six days in 31 sessions. The indoor facility was capable of holding 8,400 spectators, plus press members, during the competitions. 96.7% of available tickets were sold, for a total of 230,657 spectators witnessing events in the arena. During the 2002 Winter Paralympics the arena hosted the ice sledge hockey events.\n\nAs part of their performance at the arena on November 2, 1998, Phish performed Pink Floyd's \"Dark Side of the Moon\" album in its entirety. Depeche Mode performed at the arena three times: the first one was on July 23, 2001 during their Exciter Tour. The second one was on November 12, 2005 during their Touring the Angel. The third one was on August 25, 2009 during their Tour of the Universe, in front of a crowd of 6,601 people. The 2009 show was recorded for the group's live albums project \"Recording the Universe\". One Direction and Sam Smith performed in the arena in 2013 and 2015 respectively.\n\n"}
{"id": "1886220", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1886220", "title": "Sara Groves", "text": "Sara Groves\n\nSara Groves (born Sara Lee Colbaugh, September 10, 1972) is an American contemporary Christian singer, record producer, and author.\n\nGroves received her Bachelor of Science degree in history and English in 1994 from Evangel University, a private Christian university in Springfield, Missouri. Groves spent four years teaching high school in Rosemount, Minnesota before recording her first album, \"Past the Wishing\", in 1998. Since then, she has released nine additional albums and appeared on several others. Groves has been nominated for three Dove Awards including New Artist of the Year in 2002 and Special Event Album of the Year 2003 by the Gospel Music Association. She was named one of the best Christian music artists of 2005 and the album, \"Add to the Beauty\", was named Album of the Year for 2005 by \"CCM Magazine\".\n\nGroves started writing songs when she was four years old. She describes her youth as being \"lonesome\", and she wrote about deep issues while still in junior high school. Eventually, she took a songwriting course, prompted by her husband, and she began to take the art seriously.\n\nIn 2001, she appeared on Word Entertainment's \"What a Mom\" album with the song \"Generations\", and also on Word Entertainment's \"New Music from Our Heart To Yours\" album.\n\nIn 2002, she performed with Randy Stonehill on the song \"Take Me Back\", performed with Joel Hanson on the title song for the album \"Traveling Light: Songs From the 23rd Psalm\", and performed the song \"Child of Love\" for the album \"\".\n\nIn 2003, she appeared on the \"\" album with the song \"Come Be Who You Are\", and the following year's sequel \"City on a Hill: The Collection\" album, with the song \"Jesus Went to the Garden\".\n\nGroves was recognized by the Alumni Board from Evangel University in 2004, for her significant achievements in the years since graduation.\n\nIn September 2005, Groves, her husband Troy, her father-in-law, a neighbor, and a Minneapolis ER doctor delivered a tour bus and trailer load of baby supplies to victims of Hurricane Katrina in Slidell, Louisiana.\n\nIn August 2006, Groves released a film titled \"Nomad Film: Sara Groves – Just Showed Up for My Own Life\", the first installment of a film series called \"Nomad: The Show With No Home\" produced by Fearless Films Inc. The video presents a collection of videos about Sara's musical career, some of her inspirations in life, and her charitable engagement. Notably, was deeply moved after reading Philip Gourevitch's \"We Wish to Inform You That Tomorrow We Will Be Killed With Our Families\", so she took a trip to Rwanda, Africa, with Pastor Rick Warren and a Christian group from Saddleback Church to learn about the challenges of reconciliation and economic development 11 years after the mass Rwandan genocide. She also engaged in the Katrina relief effort in 2005 and expressed how Gary Haugen's work has deeply influenced her. Bonus features included Grove's performance of \"Add To The Beauty\" from the 2006 Jars of Clay Tour, Nomad vignettes for small group, etc.\n\nOn October 30, 2007, the first single from the upcoming album \"Tell Me What You Know\", titled \"When the Saints\", was featured as a free download from Apple's iTunes Store. INO Records released the album \"Tell Me What You Know\" on November 6, 2007. \"Tell Me What You Know\" held the No. 1 sales spot for Christian music on iTunes for one week and landed at No. 2 for iTunes album of the year. Groves produced her father's, Dwight Colbaugh, first album titled \"Beautiful Story\". Groves ended 2007 in the lineup with Andrew Peterson on his \"Behold the Lamb of God Tour\" in November and December 2007.\n\nIn 2008, Groves toured throughout the year to promote her new album \"Tell Me What You Know\" and to benefit several Christian ministries. Groves and her husband teamed up with Charlie Peacock, Derek Webb, Sandra McCracken and Brandon Heath in September and October 2008 for the \"Art*Music*Justice Tour\" to benefit both the International Justice Mission and Food For the Hungry. Groves released her first Christmas album, \"O Holy Night\", in October 2008. The album contains both Christmas standards and newly written material. Groves was in the lineup in December 2008 of the \"Love Came Down Tour: A Christmas Pageant\" with Jars of Clay, Sixpence None the Richer and Leeland. She ended 2008 with a free concert at the United States Medical Center for Federal Prisoners in Springfield, Missouri. The USMCFP is the same prison that Sara's grandparents, Lloyd and Nita Colbaugh, have visited for 39 years and to which they took her as a baby at Christmas-time 1972. Groves said later about this concert, \"More than anything I wanted to say something of encouragement, something to remind these men that they are the art of God, especially in this place. Like always, I left encouraged myself.\"\n\nGroves' ninth album, \"Fireflies & Songs\", was released on November 17, 2009. On the track \"From This One Place,\" Groves sings about her battles with onstage anxiety attacks. The album, \"Fireflies and Songs\", was named Album of the Year by \"Christianity Today\" as the \"runaway\" No. 1 choice by a panel of ten music critics choosing Christianity Today's Top 12 Albums of 2009. Groves ended 2009 with her first solo Christmas tour performing songs from her 2008 Holiday release \"O Holy Night\".\n\nGroves released \"Invisible Empires,\" on October 18, 2011, and made a music video with Stephen Mason of Jars of Clay for her song \"Eyes on the Prize\" from the album.\n\nGroves and her husband launched the \"Art House North\", a place for all artists to gather and enjoy performances in 2012.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1886224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1886224", "title": "Van Andel Arena", "text": "Van Andel Arena\n\nVan Andel Arena is a 11,005-seat multi-purpose arena, situated in the Heartside district of Grand Rapids, Michigan, United States. After a $75 million construction effort, the arena opened on October 8, 1996, and since has attracted over five million patrons. It is home to the Grand Rapids Griffins of the American Hockey League, the top minor league affiliate of the Detroit Red Wings. It was also the home court of the now defunct Grand Rapids Hoops of the Continental Basketball Association from 1996 to 2001 and the Grand Rapids Rampage of the Arena Football League from 1998 to 2008.\n\nAs a concert venue, the Van Andel Arena seats 12,858 for end-stage shows, and 13,184 for center-stage shows. The arena floor measures and features 9,886 permanent seats, of which 1,800 are club seats and 44 luxury suites, with the 16 luxury suites in the upper bowl seating 20 each, and the lower 24 bowls seating 15, and the others at 18. In addition, there are 1,300 retractable seats.\n\nThe original estimated cost to build the arena was at $75 million.\n\nThe 12,000-seat arena is managed by SMG Property Management. It was named in recognition of the largest benefactors, Jay and Betty Van Andel.\n\nIt has been hosts to acts such as Bob Dylan, Tom Petty, Eric Clapton, Pearl Jam, Metallica, Phish, Bruce Springsteen, Paul McCartney, Phil Collins, Eagles, Britney Spears, Janet Jackson, Aerosmith, Ariana Grande, Elton John, Lady Gaga, Demi Lovato, Roger Waters, The Who, Kiss, Mötley Crüe, Red Hot Chili Peppers, Avenged Sevenfold, Rush, TLC, Marilyn Manson, Kenny Chesney, OneRepublic, Katy Perry, P!nk, The Harlem Globetrotters, World Wrestling Entertainment, Disney, Disney on Ice, [WWE on Ice]], NCAA Hockey Regional Championships, the AFL ArenaBowl XV game, and basketball exhibition games for the Detroit Pistons, Michigan State University Basketball & Grand Valley State University.\n\nIt is the fifth-largest arena in Michigan, as well as West Michigan's largest. Only The Palace of Auburn Hills and Little Caesars Arena, both in Metro Detroit, the Jack Breslin Student Events Center in East Lansing, and the Crisler Center in Ann Arbor, Michigan, are larger.\n\nAccording to the Grand Rapids Press, Van Andel Arena hosted an estimated 12,000 people \"in what may have been the biggest free-admission event ever held in the arena,\" when Barack Obama held a campaign event there on May 14, 2008. At the rally, John Edwards publicly endorsed Obama's campaign for the first time.\n\nThe first musical acts to perform in the arena were Neil Diamond on October 10, 1996, followed by Rush on October 23, 1996 during their Test for Echo tour.\n\nOn January 29, 1997, the Calvin University Knights vs. Hope College Flying Dutchmen basketball game was played at the arena, with a 70-56 Hope triumph over Calvin, establishing an NCAA Division III single-game attendance record with a capacity crowd of 11,442.\n\nIn 1998, R&B singing group Boyz II Men performed there. Vermont jam band Phish performed at the arena on November 11, 1998, and the recording of the concert was released by the band in 2019.\n\nEach year from 2000 until 2008, the Professional Bull Riders hosted their premier bull riding tour, the Built Ford Tough Series (known as the \"Bud Light Cup\" until 2002); its inaugural event in 2000 was noteworthy for being the first-ever BFTS tour event where all 15 bull riders were bucked off in the short-go round. The tour returned in 2013, where the event was won by J.B. Mauney, who scored an impressive 93.25 in the final round.\n\nIn 2001, the arena hosted the Big Ten Conference Women's Basketball Tournament, the first time in the tournament's history it was played outside of Indianapolis.\n\nOn January 28, 2005, System of a Down featured the arena in their music video for the song \"Hypnotize\", as the video was filmed during the concert.\n\nDuring their 2005-2006 \"Carnival of Sins\" tour, hair metal band Mötley Crüe recorded a live DVD in the arena. The band would return to Van Andel for their farewell tour in 2014.\n\nIn 2009, the arena was named #2 top-grossing mid-sized venue for the decade by Billboard Magazine. It ranked as a top venue in 2010 worldwide mid-year charts in popular industry publications \"Venues Today\" (#4 highest-grossing mid-sized venue), \"Billboard\" (#9 highest grossing mid-sized venue) and Pollstar (#43 highest attendance for venues of all sizes). It was named Hall of Headliners Runner Up for Facility Concession Skills in 2009 by \"Venues Today\". \nVoted Top Live Performance Venue in 2010 and Best Event Facility in 2009 and 2008 by \"The Grand Rapids Press\" and MLive.com readers. It received \"On-the-Town\" magazine Silver Townie Award for Best Live Music Venue in 2008.\n\nIn 2014 and in 2016, the arena hosted the WCHA Final Five. In 2016, the arena hosted the Kellogg's Tour of Gymnastics Champions.\n\nOn June 27, 2015, Pepe Aguilar performed at the arena, becoming the first Spanish-language act to perform at a major venue in Michigan.\n\nIn addition to these events, Van Andel Arena also hosts the Grand Valley State University Commencement ceremonies each early December and late April. In December, it hosts one ceremony on Saturday morning while in April, there are three total ceremonies, one on Friday evening, one on Saturday morning, and one on Saturday afternoon.\n\n"}
{"id": "1886226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1886226", "title": "Brian O'Halloran", "text": "Brian O'Halloran\n\nBrian Christopher O'Halloran (born December 20, 1969) is an American actor and producer best known for playing Dante Hicks in Kevin Smith's debut film \"Clerks\" and its 2006 sequel, \"Clerks II\". He has also made appearances in most of Smith's View Askewniverse films, either as Dante Hicks or one of Dante's cousins.\n\nO'Halloran was born in Manhattan, New York City, and lived in Old Bridge Township, New Jersey from the age of 13. A first-generation Irish-American, both his parents emigrated from Ireland. His father died when O'Halloran was 15 years old. He graduated from Cedar Ridge High School.\n\nO'Halloran is the lead actor in the 2000 film \"Vulgar\", about a small town clown who is traumatized after he is attacked during one of his performances. Writer/director Bryan Johnson wrote the lead specifically with O'Halloran in mind.\n\nHe has worked on theatre productions since high school. He has said on the subject of doing theatre:\n\nSince \"Clerks\", O'Halloran has primarily been a stage actor, working with the Boomerang Theatre Company, the New Jersey Repertory Company and the Tri-State Actors Theatre, among others.\n\nHe is currently a resident of Staten Island.\n\n"}
{"id": "1886236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1886236", "title": "Parkrose/Sumner Transit Center", "text": "Parkrose/Sumner Transit Center\n\nParkrose/Sumner Transit Center is a TriMet transit center and light rail station on the MAX Red Line in Portland, Oregon. It is the fourth stop north on the Airport MAX branch, and consists of an island platform in the median of Interstate 205. The entrance and exit to the transit center are on Sandy Blvd. near 95th Avenue, in the Parkrose neighborhood and east of the Sumner neighborhood.\n\nIt is a hub for bus service to Gresham, Tigard, Lents, Fairview, Vancouver, Wood Village and Clackamas. A bridge across the northbound lanes of I-205 connects the MAX platform to a park-and-ride lot and bus stops.\n\nFor almost 20 years before it became a transit center and MAX station, the site was already in use as a TriMet park-and-ride lot. TriMet's proposal to build the facility, with 288 spaces on a lot, was approved by the Multnomah County Planning Commission in September 1983, and the lot opened for use in summer 1984. It was not designated as a transit center, because it was served by only a single bus route (14-Sandy, renumbered 12 in 1986), and was referred to by TriMet as the Parkrose Park & Ride. A second bus route, 201-Airport Way, began serving the Parkrose Park and Ride later. In 2000–2001, a MAX light rail station was constructed adjacent to the park-and-ride lot. Additional bus routes began serving the site when the MAX station opened in September 2001, at which time it was newly designated as a transit center and was renamed Parkrose/Sumner Transit Center.\n\nAs a result of 2001 expansion of the bus roadway and stops, and the addition of a building for use by drivers on layover, the size of the park-and-ride lot was reduced and the lot currently has 193 spaces.\n\nThis transit center is served by the following bus lines:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1886240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1886240", "title": "Goteki", "text": "Goteki\n\nGoteki () are a British electro band. They are the musical brainchild of composer Ross Tregenza. They were heavily involved in the development of UK electronic body music (EBM) and cybergoth genres in the early 2000s. Goteki split up in 2006, but reformed in 2008 as a three piece live act expanded from Tregenza's solo studio creations. They refer to their new musical style as 'death electro': a mix of alternative electro pop and industrial combined with influences from film and video game scores.\n\nThis is bollox\n\nGoteki's reformation in August 2008 saw them return as a two-piece (Ross Tregenza and Alastair Power, performing under the names of Tregenza and Ali-Star). They were re-joined in 2009 by Clive 'Crash' Lewis. They returned with a more mature sound, but with recognizable qualities from their older material.\n\nThe group was formed after Tregenza's former band, Sneaky Bat Machine (SBM), ended. The group took their name from one of the teams in the PlayStation game \"Wipeout 3\" (eventually securing Sony's blessing to use the name). The original Goteki line-up consisted of ex-SBM members Tregenza on vocals, Clive Lewis on synths, and Bruce Attley on synthesizers and samples.\n\nThe band's first release was the \"Fight the Saucermen\" EP which was released in early 2000 on Wasp Factory Records. The EP received encouraging reviews. After touring extensively the band started working on their first full-length album.\n\nThis album was released in 2002 under the name \"Goteki O/S\". It contains 17 tracks and is something of a concept album, divided into \"phases\" separated by instrumental tracks. For example, \"Signal One - Nihon\" is followed by the tracks \"Geisha Deconstruct\" and \"Ninjagrrl\", which are inspired by Japanese culture. The album itself is rather eclectic in its style, songs range from ambient electronica to harsh drum and bass. All music on the album was, written and arranged by Tregenza, but there are also several guest appearances by other EBM musicians, such as Sebastian Komor of Icon of Coil and Jared Louche of Chemlab. It received rave reviews - Future Music Magazine called it a \"Synthpop Happy Hardcore Melange that somehow works\", and Kerrang Magazine lovingly called the band \"Futuristic Nutjobs\". For a selection of \"Goteki O/S\" reviews and increased the band's popularity within the cyber scene. The band played at Whitby Gothic Weekend's 10th Anniversary Festival.\n\nThe album \"Goteki O/S\" was followed by \"Goteki O/S : Corrupted Files\", a remix album which contained remixes from bands such as DeathBoy, Icon of Coil and Sigue Sigue Sputnik.\n\nIn late 2003, the band announced that they were taking a new direction, concentrating on live performance aspects and utilising a human drummer for the first time. With this shift in direction singer Tregenza dropped his former pseudonym Sneaky. A shake-up of the band's line up followed in 2004: Doktor A left the band and was replaced by Ali Star (real name Alastair Power) on bass and Yan-Yan (real name Lilian Cheung) on percussion.\n\nGoteki played at the 10th goth festival Convergence in 2004; this marked their US debut. At this point, the band were without a label, so Goteki's second album \"Revolution\" was an Internet-only download release. In 2005, the band also reached an international audience when some of their music was used on the soundtrack of \"Timesplitters Future Perfect\".\n\nIn late 2005, Clive Lewis left the band and was replaced by Edy Green on lead guitar. Due to heavy demand for a CD to be released, Goteki re-released \"Revolution\" with their own label, Alphastar Records, in late 2005. The album featured 17 tracks spanning a production time that overlapped with \"Goteki O/S: Corrupted File\"s. The album included the track Shinjuku Lullaby which would feature on Xbox game 'Project Gotham Racing 3'. It also featured a second remix by Graeme Norgate (under the alias Vi Rez) reprising his role as remixer on the Corrupted Files album.\n\nBy this stage, band members were becoming tied up in other activities. Yan-Yan left the band in 2006 to pursue a career in modeling and fashion photography, and was replaced by Tregenza's long-time friend Rosie Harris. Tregenza himself joined the newly reformed Visage, playing guitar for their comeback tour. Sales of \"Revolution\" were disappointing, and Tregenza was frustrated that the band did not get the attention he felt they deserved. Goteki disbanded in March 2006. Their last performance took place at Electrofest on 30 April 2006.\n\nAfter disbanding Goteki, Ross announced work on a new project named Jetstream Lovers with members Edy and Ali Star. The group's original name, The Radio Stars, had to be changed for copyright reasons. In 2007, Tregenza surprised fans by announcing a new Goteki album would be released in 2008, containing previously unreleased Goteki tracks, as well as new compositions.\n\n2008 saw Tregenza and Power starting a new electro project Lamorna, as which they played a few UK dates and began plans for an album. Summer 2008 saw them play a charity reunion gig, playing Goteki and Sneaky Bat Machine songs at Elektrowerkz in London, with former members Yan Yan, Crash and Sneaky Bat Machine's Maxislag. In August 2008, the fact that Lamorna sounded ever more like Goteki combined with the nostalgia that the charity gig evoked prompted Ross Tregenza to announce the reformation of Goteki. Their first act as a reformed band was to compile their material to date as a 'best of' album. It was released digitally in January 2009 under the name 'ROBOTS NINJAS PORNSTARS WARFARE: The Best of Goteki 2000-2008'\n\nShows in Bristol, Oxford and London in May and June 2008 saw the return of Goteki with the new full line up. Tregenza and Ali Star were rejoined by longtime member Clive Lewis and new female vocalist Banda. Banda was also slated to appear as co-singer on a number of 5 track EPs the band advertised as coming out throughout the Summer of 2009. Promoting the release schedule as 'The Summer of Santa Muerte', the band announced the first of the four EPs to be 'Shoot Me Dead' to be released 4 July, followed by 'Journey To Storyville' on 25 July. These were followed in August by 'Atlantic Pacific' and 'Take Me To Your Lover'. A full album 'Santa Muerte' was slated for release in the winter. Promotional flyers claimed the album would be a 'tornado of sex, death, sand & neon'.\n\n'Santa Muerte' is finally released in January 2011 after some production delays, and met with acclaim from fans and press. The band began work on a remix album slated for release on 11 December or 12 January. In the meantime, Tregenza decides to move the entire band's back catalog to Creative Commons, and releases everything from Fight The Saucermen through to the Summer of Santa Muerte EPs for free from the website.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nGoteki have also written material for the \"TimeSplitters\" video game series, notably \"TimeSplitters 2\" and \"TimeSplitters Future Perfect\". Their track \"Shinjuku Lullaby\" was used as an in-game track for \"Project Gotham Racing 3\". Tregenza also worked as a Sound Designer on the videogames \"Haze\" and \"Rogue Warrior\"\n"}
{"id": "1886249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1886249", "title": "Herb Brooks Arena", "text": "Herb Brooks Arena\n\nThe Herb Brooks Arena is a multi-purpose arena in Lake Placid, New York. This surface, along with the USA Rink, was built for the 1980 Winter Olympics.\n\nHerb Brooks Arena hosted various events during the 1980 Winter Olympics, most famously the ice hockey tournament that saw the United States' 4–3 victory over the Soviet Union, the game commonly referred to as the Miracle on Ice. In 2005, to commemorate the 25th anniversary of the American victory, the arena was named after the late Herb Brooks, who coached the United States team during the 1980 Olympics. Other events the arena hosted during the 1980 games include figure skating events and the closing ceremony.\n\nThe arena has been used several times for college hockey championships in the United States. It hosted the 1984 and 1988 men's NCAA Men's Ice Hockey Championship, commonly referred to as the Frozen Four. The arena has hosted the NCAA Women's Ice Hockey Championship as well, in 2007. From 1993 to 2002, the arena annually hosted the ECAC Hockey League's championships every March. The ECAC announced in July 2012 that the league would again crown its champion in Herb Brooks Arena for the 2013–14, 2014–15, and 2015–16 seasons. In March 2016 the contract was extended for another three years through the 2019 ECAC tournament.\n\nThe Glens Falls-based Adirondack Thunder ice hockey team have used the arena for a few games because of high school basketball championship games being held at the Glens Falls Civic Center. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1886250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1886250", "title": "Mount Hood Avenue station", "text": "Mount Hood Avenue station\n\nMount Hood Avenue station is a light rail station on the MAX Red Line in Portland, Oregon. Located at the northern end of the Cascade Station development, it is the 2nd stop north on the Airport MAX. The street for which it is named, Mount Hood Avenue, is located about southeast of the station. Mount Hood is approximately 40 miles (64.3 km) away from the station. \n\n"}
{"id": "1886260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1886260", "title": "Portland International Airport station", "text": "Portland International Airport station\n\nPortland International Airport is a light rail station in Portland, Oregon, United States, that is served by TriMet's MAX Light Rail system. It serves Portland International Airport and is the eastern terminus of the Red Line, which connects travelers to Portland City Center and Beaverton. The station, which is located near the southern end of the arrivals hall of the airport's main passenger terminal, consists of a wedge-shaped island platform, just beyond which both tracks join because the section approaching the terminal is single-tracked. In late 2018, the station recorded an average of 2,461 weekday boardings.\n\nPortland International Airport station was built as part of the Airport MAX project, which extended light rail service to the airport with the construction of a four-station, branch line of MAX near Gateway/Northeast 99th Avenue Transit Center. Construction of the station began in July 2000 and it opened on September 10, 2001. Trains serve the station for 22 hours daily; there are minimum headways of 15 minutes during most of the day. TriMet provides a 24-hour service to the airport with a supplementary night-bus route to Southeast Portland that runs when the light rail line is not operating.\n\nTriMet had served Portland International Airport with bus routes since 1970, notably with route 12–Sandy Boulevard since 1986. Metro planners first proposed building an airport light rail line in 1987. These early plans envisioned the line to run from Clackamas to the airport via Interstate 205 using rights-of-way provided by the I-205 Transitway, which had been built in 1982 to accommodate mass transit. In 1991, the Port of Portland adopted a multi-phased, $300 million airport expansion plan to address expected passenger traffic growth through 2010. The project raised the capacity of the main terminal and its concourses over a 20-year period and provisioned for a future light rail station near the arrivals hall. By 1994, travelers using the airport had risen by 34 percent within four years, far exceeding the Port's expectations. Port officials, struggling to meet the surge in demand, moved to accelerate airport light rail plans, which regional planners had not anticipated until the late 2000s. TriMet had also aimed to complete the Westside MAX and the South–North Line beforehand.\n\nIn 1996, construction and engineering firm Bechtel approached the Port with an unsolicited proposal to build the airport line. After negotiations between Bechtel, the Port, and local jurisdictions, Bechtel was granted the design–build contract for the extension in exchange for development rights to the Portland International Center, the largest commercially zoned property in Portland at the time. Bechtel later renamed this property Cascade Station. The Port projected the airport terminal station to cost $8.4 million and allocated a $3 ticket fee to fund its construction. Delta Airlines, Reno Air, and United Airlines protested the use of ticket fees but the Federal Aviation Administration gave its approval in May 1999. Construction of the line commenced in June 1999. Hoffman Construction began building the station's platform in July 2000 and by August, Stacy and Witbeck crews had started to lay of rail along the segment closest to the terminal.\n\nOn September 10, 2001, the station opened along with the entire Airport MAX extension that introduced Red Line service between downtown Portland and the airport. Celebrations planned for the following weekend were canceled following the September 11 attacks and the airport was closed for three days. Planners projected single-car trains to initially serve Portland International Airport station but TriMet deployed two-car consists on the line after recording 3,800 riders over Thanksgiving weekend in November 2001. In September 2003, TriMet extended Red Line service farther west using the existing Westside MAX tracks to Beaverton Transit Center. This was done in an effort to provide a one-seat ride to the airport for westside riders. In 2006, the station handled more than one million passengers in a single year for the first time.\n\nTriMet reintroduced bus service to the airport with the 272–PDX Night Bus route on September 2, 2018. The bus route runs in the late night and early morning hours when the Red Line is not operating. From March 29, 2020, Portland International Airport station will be closed through May 30, and again from August 30 to November 4, to make way for the expansion of the airport's Concourse B. During the closures, shuttle buses will carry riders from Mount Hood Avenue station to the passenger terminal. TriMet plans to utilize the closures to prepare for track improvements that will be part of the Better Red project.\n\nPortland International Airport station's platform is situated outdoors on the lower level of the airport's main passenger terminal; it is near the southernmost entrance and within of the baggage claim area. The station consists of a wedge-shaped, at-grade island platform and a glass canopy that was designed by ZGF Architects, which also designed the airport terminal's main-entrance canopy. The 80-seat station lobby, which is located inside the terminal, has ticket vending machines and real-time displays showing train departure times. The station occupies the end of a single-track section of the MAX system; the only other such section on the network is located near Gateway/Northeast 99th Avenue Transit Center.\n\nPieces of public art commissioned for the Airport MAX project have a common theme of \"flight\". The station houses one art installation as part of TriMet's Public Art Program, which is funded at 1.5 percent of a project's total cost. \"Time Flies\" by Christine Bourdette is a large, porcelain enamel mural that is displayed on a wall between the station platform and the baggage claim area. The work is described as \"a sequence of images related to time and motion\". Bourdette also installed bronze rails that lead passengers from the escalators to the platform and blue chevrons on the platform pavement to depict movement.\n\nPortland International Airport station is served by TriMet's MAX Red Line, which connects the airport to Northeast Portland, Portland City Center, and central Beaverton. In late 2018, the station recorded an average of 2,461 boardings on weekdays. The day's first train arrives from Beaverton Transit Center. The last three westbound trips travel eastbound to Ruby Junction/East 197th Avenue station as through services of the Blue Line. Headway between trains varies from 15 minutes for most of the day to 30 minutes during the early mornings and late evenings. Services operate on all days of the week and are the most frequent on weekdays. Trains from the station take approximately 40 minutes to reach Pioneer Square in downtown Portland—where transfers to all lines are available—and approximately 65 minutes to reach the other end of the line at Beaverton Transit Center.\n\nIn the late evenings and early mornings when the Red Line is not operating, TriMet operates the 272–PDX Night Bus to provide a 24-hour service to the airport. The bus departs from the airport arrivals platform near the station once per hour and travels to Southeast Washington & 80th in Southeast Portland, running along much of Southeast 82nd Avenue. Riders continuing to downtown Portland may transfer to bus route 20–Burnside/Stark, which also runs on a 24-hour schedule.\n"}
{"id": "1886263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1886263", "title": "McCarthey Athletic Center", "text": "McCarthey Athletic Center\n\nMcCarthey Athletic Center is a 6,000-seat indoor arena in the northwest United States, located on the campus of Gonzaga University in Spokane, Washington. Opened in November 2004, it is home to the university's Bulldog basketball programs, members of the West Coast Conference (WCC) in Division I of the NCAA.\n\nOften called \"The New Kennel,\" its nickname was inherited from the school's former basketball arena, Charlotte Y. Martin Centre, popularly known as \"The Kennel,\" which had been home to the Bulldogs for 39 years. As the MAC has become the established basketball arena on campus, more fans have begun calling it simply \"The Kennel,\" with the Charlotte Y. Martin Centre being known as the \"Martin Centre.\" The elevation of the court is approximately above sea level.\n\nGround was broken in April 2003 on the site of the baseball venue, Pecarovich Field. The arena's naming rights went to the McCarthey brothers of Salt Lake City, as a result of major gifts by Gonzaga trustee Philip McCarthey and regent Thomas McCarthey; both are GU alumni and former owners of \"The Salt Lake Tribune\". The new baseball stadium was later built to the south and opened in in the interim, Bulldogs played at Avista Stadium, home of the minor league Spokane Indians of the short-season Northwest League.\n\nMcCarthey Athletic Center opened in autumn 2004 on November 19, a 98–80 non-conference win over Portland State. In its second season, it hosted the WCC post-season tournament in March 2006; it was the event's first time in Spokane, as the original \"Kennel\" was considered too small and the larger Spokane Arena was unavailable due to annual scheduling conflicts. Gonzaga narrowly won its two games: the semifinal with San Diego went to overtime, and the final over Loyola Marymount was won by a single point.\n\nBy February 2007, Gonzaga had 38 consecutive wins in the arena and a 50-game winning streak at home dating back to the Martin Centre. The Santa Clara Broncos ended what was, at the time, the longest home win streak in the NCAA. In February 2015, BYU snapped Gonzaga's 41-game home winning streak in the McCarthey Athletic Center, which was also the longest active home winning streak in the NCAA at the time.\n\nThrough February 6, 2020, the Zags are in the McCarthey Athletic Center, which includes a record in non-conference games, a record in conference games, and a record in the WCC Tournament.\n\nThe arena has also served as a venue for concerts by Switchfoot, Yellowcard, Ben Folds, Death Cab for Cutie, and Comedians such as Bill Cosby, Jeff Foxworthy, and Kevin Hart have also performed.\n\n\nIn October 2009, NCAA announced that McCarthey Athletic Center would be one of 16 locations that would host the first and second rounds of the Division I Women's Basketball Tournament in 2011. It also hosted the first and second rounds in 2012 \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1886266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1886266", "title": "Core (game theory)", "text": "Core (game theory)\n\nIn game theory, the core is the set of feasible allocations that cannot be improved upon by a subset (a \"coalition\") of the economy's agents. A coalition is said to \"improve upon\" or \"block\" a feasible allocation if the members of that coalition are better off under another feasible allocation that is identical to the first except that every member of the coalition has a different consumption bundle that is part of an aggregate consumption bundle that can be constructed from publicly available technology and the initial endowments of each consumer in the coalition.\n\nAn allocation is said to have the \"core property\" if there is no coalition that can improve upon it. The core is the set of all feasible allocations with the core property.\n\nThe idea of the core already appeared in the writings of , at the time referred to as the \"contract curve\". Even if von Neumann and Morgenstern considered it an interesting concept, they only worked with zero-sum games where the core is always empty. The modern definition of the core is due to Gillies.\n\nConsider a transferable utility cooperative game formula_1 where formula_2 denotes the set of players and formula_3 is the characteristic function. An imputation formula_4 is dominated by another imputation formula_5 if there exists a coalition formula_6, such that each player in formula_6 prefers formula_5, formally: formula_9 for all formula_10 and there exists formula_10 such that formula_12 and formula_6 can enforce formula_5 (by threatening to leave the grand coalition to form formula_6), formally: formula_16. An imputation formula_17 is \"dominated\" if there exists an imputation formula_5 dominating it.\n\nThe core is the set of imputations that are not dominated.\n\n\nConsider a group of \"n\" miners, who have discovered large bars of gold. If two miners can carry one piece of gold, then the payoff of a coalition \"S\" is\n\nIf there are more than two miners and there is an even number of miners, then the core consists of the single payoff where each miner gets 1/2. If there is an odd number of miners, then the core is empty.\n\nMr A and Mr B are knitting gloves. The gloves are one-size-fits-all, and two gloves make a pair that they sell for €5. They have each made three gloves. How to share the proceeds from the sale? The problem can be described by a characteristic function form game with the following characteristic function: Each man has three gloves, that is one pair with a market value of €5. Together, they have 6 gloves or 3 pair, having a market value of €15. Since the singleton coalitions (consisting of a single man) are the only non-trivial coalitions of the game all possible distributions of this sum belong to the core, provided both men get at least €5, the amount they can achieve on their own. For instance (7.5, 7.5) belongs to the core, but so does (5, 10) or (9, 6).\n\nFor the moment ignore shoe sizes: a pair consists of a left and a right shoe, which can then be sold for €10. Consider a game with 2001 players: 1000 of them have 1 left shoe, 1001 have 1 right shoe. The core of this game is somewhat surprising: it consists of a single imputation that gives 10 to those having a (scarce) left shoe, and 0 to those owning an (oversupplied) right shoe. No coalition can block this outcome, because no left shoe owner will accept less than 10, and any imputation that pays a positive amount to any right shoe owner must pay less than 10000 in total to the other players, who can get 10000 on their own. So, there is just one imputation in the core.\n\nThe message remains the same, even if we increase the numbers as long as left shoes are scarcer. The core has been criticized for being so extremely sensitive to oversupply of one type of player.\n\nThe Walrasian equilibria of an exchange economy in a general equilibrium model, will lie in the core of the cooperation game between the agents. Graphically, and in a two-agent economy (see Edgeworth Box), the core is the set of points on the contract curve (the set of Pareto optimal allocations) lying between each of the agents' indifference curves defined at the initial endowments.\n\nWhen alternatives are allocations (list of consumption bundles), it is natural to assume that any nonempty subsets of individuals can block a given allocation.\nWhen alternatives are public (such as the amount of a certain public good), however, it is more appropriate to assume that only the coalitions that are large enough can block a given alternative. The collection of such large (\"winning\") coalitions is called a \"simple game\".\nThe \"core of a simple game with respect to a profile of preferences\" is based on the idea that only winning coalitions can reject an alternative formula_17 in favor of another alternative formula_5. A necessary and sufficient condition for the core to be nonempty for all profile of preferences, is provided in terms of the Nakamura number for the simple game.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1886269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1886269", "title": "Fifth Third Arena", "text": "Fifth Third Arena\n\nFifth Third Arena is a 12,012-seat basketball arena in Cincinnati, Ohio, United States. The number of seats in the arena was reduced from the initial 13,176 seat design to 12,012 in honor of the number 12 jersey of Hall of Famer Oscar Robertson. The arena opened in 1989 and is located on the campus of the University of Cincinnati. It primarily serves as the home venue for the Cincinnati Bearcats men's basketball, women's basketball, and women's volleyball teams and hosts other events. It is located in the Myrl H. Shoemaker Center, which was also the name of the arena until 2005, when it was named for Cincinnati-based Fifth Third Bank).\n\nThe facility hosted the 1994 Great Midwest Conference men's and women's basketball tournaments, the 1998 Conference USA men's basketball & volleyball tournaments, the 1999 NCAA Mideast Women's Basketball Regional, the 2003 NCAA West Women's Basketball Subregional, and the 2006 Big East volleyball championship.\n\nAs of March 10, 2019, the Bearcats are 409–79 (.838) all-time at Fifth Third Arena, including a 42-game win streak from 1997 to 2000. In the 1999–2000 season, every Bearcat home game was sold out. During the Bob Huggins era, it was known as one of the most hostile arenas in the nation due to the high decibel levels typical of his tenure.\n\nA new basketball court was installed prior to the 2003–2004 season. It is a similar floor to ones used in the NBA. Like its predecessor, it is named Ed Jucker court, in honor of the coach who led the Bearcats to their two national championships.\n\nThe building housing the arena is named for Myrl H. Shoemaker, the former lieutenant governor of the state of Ohio. Prior to the building of The Shoe, the Bearcats played off-campus at Riverfront Coliseum (now U.S. Bank Arena) and the Cincinnati Gardens. Their previous on-campus arena, Armory Fieldhouse, has been renovated for recreational use, and is located adjacent to the arena to the north.\n\nOn October 31, 2014, WLWT reported that the arena could be in line for a $70 million facelift. The project would reduce the amount of seating, but improve visibility in the arena. It would also upgrade club areas, restrooms, and even add a new roof.\n\nOn June 23, 2015, WXIX-TV reported the price rose to $80 million. The new capacity would be 10,818. Per the Fifth Third Arena RFQ (Ohio Facilities Construction Commission) Construction was scheduled to start in March 2016 with completion by September 2017. The Bearcats would play games off campus during the 2016–17 season during renovations.\n\nOn August 25, 2015, The university officially kicked off the multimillion-dollar fundraising campaign for the renovation. The UC Board of Trustees approved an interim $2.2-million funding request to allow for completion of documents in the design development phase. $15 million has been raised toward the project, an additional $25 million must be raised before the board gives full approval in December. UC teams under the renovation plan would vacate Fifth Third Arena for the 2016–17 season. UC Athletic Director Mike Bohn said that U.S. Bank Arena, Cincinnati Gardens, Cintas Center or BB&T Arena are possibilities as a temporary home. No timetable was provided on when a decision would be made on where events will be held.\nOn June 16, 2016, the Port of Greater Cincinnati Development Authority approved a contract to acquire the Cincinnati Gardens for $1.75 million. The arena will be demolished and the site will be repurposed for future light manufacturing. The sale and imminent demolition of the Cincinnati Gardens eliminated the possibility of the facility being used as a temporary home arena during the renovations of Fifth Third Arena\n\nOn December 15, 2015, the UC Board of Trustees approved an $87-million, privately funded renovation of Fifth Third Arena. Proposed improvements to the facility, include the creation of a 360-degree seating bowl, new HD scoreboard, ribbon boards, sound system, an LED lighting system which will allow for enhanced gameday presentation, new restroom and concession facilities, a new upper-level concourse with its own fan amenities, expanded food and beverage options and a new main entrance and plaza with centralized ticketing and guest services. The renovated arena also would feature upgraded locker room spaces, expanded premium seating options, including a courtside club, arena club and concourse club as well as enclosed suites, loge seating, a new Bearcats Lounge and super suites. During the meeting, trustee Rob Richardson Jr. said the upgraded facility would support the university's objective to join a power athletic conference and in student-athlete recruitment. Construction was set to begin in April 2017 and be completed in fall 2018. Construction was originally scheduled to start in March 2016 with completion by September 2017, but the timeframe was pushed as a result of the project's complexity and pace of fundraising. Lessons learned from the renovation of nearby Nippert Stadium drove a desire not to rush the renovation of 5/3rd Arena, given the uniquely tight quarters of UC's campus. \n\nA first phase of the renovation was completed prior to the start of the 2016-2017 season, adding four 18-seat luxury suites on the sixth floor of the arena behind the north baseline of the court, which formerly housed the UCATS Club. These suites were used during the 2016-2017 season. Men's and women's basketball and volleyball home events would be conducted off campus during the 2017–18 season while the rest of the renovation was performed. Major renovation work began after the 2016–17 season and is set to be completed by November 2018. On February 10, 2017, the university announced that home men's basketball games would be moved to BB&T Arena on the campus of Northern Kentucky University in Highland Heights, Kentucky during the renovations of Fifth Third Arena. In April 2017, the university announced that the women's basketball and volleyball teams will play their home games in the St. Ursula Academy Gymnasium & Convocation Center near campus.\n\nOn October 2, 2018, UC announced the array of new concession options for the renovated Fifth Third Arena. This selection included local staple eateries such as Skyline Chili, Taste of Belgium, and Frisch's Big Boy as well as local craft brewery selections at their new in arena bars including Rhinegeist and Madtree Brewing.\n\nOn October 24, 2018, ahead of the home opener for the renovated Fifth Third Arena, the University of Cincinnati announced record breaking season ticket sales for the upcoming 2018-2019 season, surpassing the previous record set in the Bob Huggins era with a new benchmark of just under 9000 season tickets sold.\n\nThrough the 2019–20 season, the Bearcats men's basketball team has a record of 422 wins and 81 losses in the arena, a winning percentage of 83.9%. They have finished undefeated in home games on four occasions (1993, 1999, 2002 & 2017). \nOVERALL: 422–81 () \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1886270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1886270", "title": "Highland Railway River Class", "text": "Highland Railway River Class\n\nThe Highland Railway River class was a class of steam locomotive with a 4-6-0 wheel arrangement. They were designed by F. G. Smith, who had joined the Highland Railway in 1904 from the North Eastern Railway. His initial post was as manager of the Locomotive, Carriage and Wagon works at Inverness (usually referred to as Lochgorm works). When Peter Drummond departed to the Glasgow and South Western Railway at the end of 1911 Smith was appointed Chief Mechanical Engineer in his place.\n\nThe 'Rivers' were Smith's only design for the Highland Railway, and they were the largest and most powerful locomotives built for that company. This involved a deadweight driving axle loading of , which exceeded the maximum axle loading allowed by the company's Civil Engineer. However, Smith had taken this into account, and had designed the 'Rivers' to cause much lower 'hammer blow' upon the track than the existing Highland locomotives. When the effects of hammer blow were taken into account, the 'Rivers' put the same total weight onto the track as the previous 'Castle' Class 4-6-0s.\n\nThe first two engines were delivered to Perth around the end of August 1915, when a row immediately erupted between Smith and the company's Chief Civil Engineer Alexander Newlands. Smith and Newlands had a difficult working relationship and avoided speaking to one another. It seems that Smith had not discussed the high deadweight axle loadings with Newlands, and Newlands did not raise the matter until the locomotives arrived. On delivery, the locomotives were immediately placed in a siding while the engineers checked the drawings. Once this exercise was completed Newlands banned them from the line as being too heavy for a number of bridges and out of gauge. Smith argued that the effect of hammer blow needed to be taken into account, but the company's board sided with Newlands and Smith was forced to resign.\n\nThe Highland managed to sell all six locomotives to the Caledonian Railway, and legend has it that they made a profit of £500 per engine in the process. They were out of gauge to the 'Caley' as well, but the modifications required were slight and quickly made.\n\nIn Caledonian service they proved reliable and were well liked by their crews, despite their being outside-cylindered and the 'Caley' being an inside-cylinder line. They spent most of their lives on fast goods between Aberdeen and Carlisle. Many footplatemen and shed mechanical staff regarded them as being better than the Caley's own 4-6-0 designs.\n\nBy the 1920s, the effects of hammer blow were more widely understood, and it was accepted that the locomotives could safely work over the Highland Main Line. In fact, taking hammer blow into account, the total weight which the 'Rivers' put onto the track was around a ton less than the 'Clan' 4-6-0s which had been built to replace them. Some of the weaker bridges on the Highland had, in any event, been strengthened by that time. Thus the 'Rivers' ended their days on the line for which they had originally been built. The last of the class was withdrawn in 1946.\n\nPlanned numbers and names in Highland service were\n\n"}
{"id": "1886274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1886274", "title": "John Bastard (cricketer)", "text": "John Bastard (cricketer)\n\nJohn Horatio (Horace) Bastard (16 December 1817 – July 1848) was a Cambridge University cricketer who played in six first-class matches between 1838 and 1840. He was born and died in Newcastle upon Tyne.\n\nHe was educated at Winchester College and Trinity College, Cambridge. As well as playing for Cambridge, he also played two first-class games for the Marylebone Cricket Club against Oxford University and against his alma mater. Bastard never scored highly, making 0, 11, 0, 5, 9, 11, 0, 0* and 5 in his first-class innings. Although the bowling records of the matches in which he played are not complete, he is not recorded to have bowled at first-class level, and certainly did not take a wicket. He did, however, hold three catches.\n\nIn later life, Bastard became a clergyman, serving as a Navy Chaplain.\n"}
{"id": "1886278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1886278", "title": "Newington, Edinburgh", "text": "Newington, Edinburgh\n\nNewington is a largely residential area around Newington Road in Southern Edinburgh, Scotland.\n\nNewington Road is one mile South on the A7 main road from the East end of Edinburgh's principle street, Princes Street. Newington is bounded to the east by Dalkeith Road, to the west by Causewayside, to the north by East and West Preston Street, and to the south by East and West Mayfield. It contains the smaller enclave of Blacket within its centre. Newington lies close to The Meadows, and Holyrood Park.\n\nIt lies on the area formerly covered by the Burgh Muir, which was gifted to the City by David I in the 12th century. The muir continued eastwards into what is now known as the Prestonfield district. The Grange lies to the west.\n\nEven after the 1586 consolidation of land rights over the Burgh Muir, the area remained largely rural. The Newington Estate was purchased sometime before 1672 by John Lauder, a Baillie and Treasurer of Edinburgh, who thereafter took the landed designation \"of Newington\", until he became Sir John Lauder, 1st Baronet of Fountainhall. This family later also became possessed, by marriage, of the estate of The Grange, Edinburgh.\n\nWith overcrowding of the city centre being initially alleviated by expansion to the north, creating the New Town, via the North Bridge, many people felt that the New Town, elegant as it was, did not offer privacy and intimacy, and so, when the South Bridge was built in 1788, parts of Newington became available for development. From the 1820s a programme of building began, with Newington House (by James Gillespie Graham) as its centrepiece. The wider area was feued many for detached or semi-detached villas, with large gardens. These were aimed at the richer Edinburgh merchants and professionals. The northern district (closer to the city centre) was built more densely including tenements. In the 1860s Newington House was home to Duncan McLaren.\n\nAs with much of Edinburgh, the bulk of the 19th century development still exists and most is designated as official conservation area: Blacket Conservation Area, Waverley Park Conservation Area and Craigmillar Park Conservation Area. The northern part of Newington, around South Clerk Street, lies in the South Side Conservation Area.\n\nBuildings flanking the A7 in Newington are commercialised, containing various retail businesses and pubs, as well as an NHS dentist on Mayfield Road. These commercial premises are mostly the ground floor of otherwise residential tenement buildings. Continuing the A7 south, Newington Road is renamed Minto Street and then Craigmillar Park. These are dominated by small guest houses, contained within some of the larger villas.\n\nPollock Halls of Residence lies just outside Newington. But the northern section of Newington provides numerous flats for students, largely due to the area's proximity to both of the University of Edinburgh's main campuses: George Square and King's Buildings.\n\nLocal buildings of interest include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1886281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1886281", "title": "Stan Sheriff Center", "text": "Stan Sheriff Center\n\nThe Stan Sheriff Center is a 10,300-seat multi-purpose arena in Honolulu CDP, City and County of Honolulu, Hawaii, on the campus of the University of Hawaii at Manoa. Initially named the Special Events Arena when it opened in 1994, the arena was renamed in 1998 after Stan Sheriff (1932–1993), a former UH athletic director who lobbied for its construction.\n\nStan Sheriff Center is home to the University of Hawaii men's Rainbow Warriors basketball and Warriors volleyball, and the women's Rainbow Wahine basketball, and Rainbow Wahine volleyball teams.\n\nThe Diamond Head Classic midseason college basketball tournament is held in December. and the annual regional FIRST Robotics Competition\n\nOn May 12, 1998, the Miss Universe pageant was held at the Center. As Hawaii's largest indoor arena, the Stan Sheriff Center is the site of many major concert tours in Honolulu. Concert capacity is 11,000 for an end-stage show and 11,300 for a center-stage show. \n\nWorld Championship Wrestling used the Stan Sheriff Center as its Hawaiian stop from 1994 until the organization folded in 2001. \n\nThe arena hosted two NBA preseason games between the Los Angeles Lakers and Utah Jazz on October 4 and 6, 2015. Both were designated as Lakers home games; the Jazz swept the short series, winning the second game in overtime. \n\nThe arena again hosted two NBA preseason games between the Los Angeles Clippers and Toronto Raptors on October 1 and 3, 2017. Toronto ended up winning the first game, while the Clippers won the second game. The Clippers returned in 2018 for a preseason game against the Sydney Kings.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1886282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1886282", "title": "Beyond Oasis", "text": "Beyond Oasis\n\nThe Story of Thor: A Successor of the Light, known in North America as Beyond Oasis, is an action-adventure game developed by Ancient and published by Sega for the Sega Genesis. The game has also been re-released in various emulated collections, such as the Virtual Console, \"Sonic's Ultimate Genesis Collection\", and \"Sega Forever\". A prequel to the game, \"The Legend of Oasis\", was released for the Sega Saturn in 1996.\n\nThe player takes the role of Prince Ali, who has discovered a buried gold \"armlet\" which once belonged to a wizard who waged a long war against the evil wielder of a silver armlet. The silver armlet was used to create chaos and destruction, while the gold armlet had the power to summon four spirits: the water spirit, \"Dytto\"; the fire spirit, \"Efreet\"; the shadow spirit, \"Shade\"; and the plant spirit, \"Bow\". Ali travels the land of Oasis, gradually acquiring the ability to summon all these spirits, in an attempt to stop the person who has discovered the ancient silver armlet and is once again using it for evil.\n\nThe game has action adventure elements similar to The Legend of Zelda series. The player controls Prince Ali and takes him across the maps to fulfill his quest. Along the way the player picks up special items to restore health and magic, special weapons to help defeat enemies, and four magic spirits found in shrines to aid Prince Ali's mission.\n\nPrince Ali's default weapon is his knife, which can perform special attacks and has unlimited usage. Also during the course of the game the player can equip Prince Ali with special weapons such as swords, crossbows, and bombs. Some crossbows (and a sword) can ignite their targets on fire. However, unlike the knife, these weapons do not have unlimited usage and will break after a set number of uses.\n\n\"Game Informer\" gave the game a \"very good\" score of 8.75/10. \"Electronic Gaming Monthly\" gave it a 38/50 (7.6/10 average), praising the vast game world and strong plot twists. A reviewer for \"Next Generation\" contended that the combination of RPG and action elements results in a game which is average on both fronts. He added that, \"The use of magic, whether it be the fireball or meteor storm; a user-friendly interface; and an ever-ready map put \"Beyond Oasis\" beyond others of its type. But ultimately, poor fighting and an uninspired storyline leave this title looking more like a mirage.\" \"GamePro\" commented that the game \"is definitely not for hardcore RPGers\" due to its small game world, limited challenge, and greater emphasis on hack-n-slash combat and puzzle solving than on RPG elements, but would be a good game for players new to the RPG genre. They praised the \"intriguing\" gameplay and the 3D feel of the graphics.\n\n\"IGN\" gave the Virtual Console re-release an 8/10, calling it \"very stylish,\" and expressing \"surprise\" that despite a lack of polish in certain areas, its \"unique\" mechanics \"deserve to be mentioned alongside such classics as Secret of Mana.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1886287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1886287", "title": "Pan American Center", "text": "Pan American Center\n\nPan American Center is a multi–purpose arena in Las Cruces, New Mexico, located on the campus of New Mexico State University. The arena has a current seating capacity of 12,515 people.\n\nThe arena serves as home of the New Mexico State Aggies Men's and Women's Basketball and Women's Volleyball teams. The arena hosted the 2007 and 2008 Western Athletic Conference Men's and Women's Basketball Tournaments as well as the 2007 WAC Volleyball Tournament.\n\nBy the late 1950s, the need for a new and larger on-campus arena at what was then New Mexico A&M had become evident. Williams Gymnasium, built in 1938, had become too small as the school and its athletic programs grew. After Las Cruces High School opened a new campus less than one mile from A&M's campus in 1957, the Aggies began to play many of their home games in the high school's new 3,000–seat gymnasium.\n\nWhen alumnus Lou Henson returned to the school—which by then had been renamed New Mexico State—as head coach in 1966 and quickly began building the basketball program into a perennial NCAA Tournament participant, the push for a new facility began in earnest. In 1967, the New Mexico State Legislature approved a $22 million capital outlay program that included provisions for a new arena at NMSU (the same bill also funded construction of NMSU's student union building). Construction of the arena cost $3.5 million and the building was inaugurated on November 30, 1968 with a 95–89 victory over Colorado State. The facility's name was suggested by former NMSU vice president Paul Rader for its location just off Interstate 25, also known as the Pan American Highway.\n\nThroughout its history the Pan Am has featured a distinctive parquet–style playing floor, making it one of only a handful of NCAA venues to feature a parquet floor. The original floor was installed in 1968 and served until being damaged in a flood inside the arena in 1986. Following the flood a new floor was acquired and installed during the 1986–87 season. This floor served through the end of the 2011 volleyball season and basketball preseason exhibition games. A new parquet floor, the arena's third, was dedicated prior to the 2011–12 men's basketball regular season home opener against UTEP on November 19, 2011. The court is named in honor of former long-time head coach Lou Henson.\n\nThe university's investment paid quick dividends as the Aggies won their first ten games in the new building before falling to archrival New Mexico on January 29. The Aggies wouldn't lose again on the Pan Am's parquet floor until dropping the 1971–72 season opener to Angelo State, snapping an amazing 34–game home winning streak over the course of three seasons. During the Pan Am's first three seasons NMSU compiled a gaudy 44–1 record within its friendly confines. The Aggies qualified for their third consecutive NCAA Tournament in the building's inaugural year and hosted BYU in an opening round matchup at the Pan Am on March 8, 1969 – a 74–62 Aggie victory. The next year saw the most successful season in school history to date as the \"Amazin' Aggies\" advanced to the NCAA Final Four before falling to eventual national champion UCLA in the national semifinal. Three days later the Aggies bounced back to defeat St. Bonaventure in the now–defunct Consolation game to finish the season third in the nation.\n\nAlthough the phenomenal success enjoyed by the Aggies during the arena's first few seasons would not continue, the Pan Am would continue to establish a reputation as an extremely difficult place to play. To date the Aggies have compiled four undefeated seasons at home and only twice in 43 seasons has NMSU had a losing home record (1984–85 and 2004–05). NMSU's women's basketball team has also compiled a pair of undefeated home seasons in the building. The Pan Am has seen home winning streaks of more than 25 games on three separate occasions – twice by the men's basketball team (34 games from 1968 to 1971 and 29 games from 1989 to 1991) and once by the women's basketball team (38 games from 1986 to 1988). Among the most memorable games in the Pan Am's history are NMSU's heartbreaking 91–89 overtime loss to Larry Bird's #2–ranked Indiana State squad on February 2, 1979 (the then-undefeated Sycamores' closest call until losing to Michigan State in that year's legendary national title game); a 72–64 win over New Mexico on December 15, 1990 that saw an all–time record 14,845 fans squeeze into the arena, a nationally televised 83–82 upset of #7–ranked eventual national champion UNLV on January 8, 1990 and the Aggies' thrilling 72–70 defeat of Utah State in the 2007 WAC Tournament Championship Game that clinched the Aggies' seventeenth NCAA Tournament appearance.\n\nDuring the Aggies' run of success in the early 1990s the Pan Am became known as one of the toughest venues in the nation for visiting teams. The often–raucous crowds led Dick Vitale to nickname the building the \"Pandemonium Center\" and refer to the student section as the \"Panamaniacs.\" Vitale named the building the Big West Conference's toughest venue in the 1998 and 1999 editions of \"Dick Vitale's College Basketball Preview\".\n\nIn 2005, the New Mexico State Legislature approved funding for a $23 million renovation of the Pan American Center. Included in the renovation was the construction of a new annex at the building's south end housing new locker room facilities, athletic and special events offices, and support facilities. Additionally, the older part of the arena was thoroughly renovated, more than tripling the number of restrooms and concession facilities in the building and adding a new, larger concourse around the circumference of the arena. The renovations caused a brief throwback to the 1960s pre–Pan Am era, as several events (most notably virtually the entire 2006 home volleyball schedule) were moved to Las Cruces High School, as NMSU lacks another facility on campus that could accommodate any significant number of fans. The LCHS arrangement proved a very beneficial one in terms of on-court success as the volleyball Aggies compiled the first undefeated home season in school history while playing all but two home matches at LCHS, including an epic 5-game upset of Hawaii that ended Nā Wahine's eight–year WAC winning streak.\n\nAlthough the renovation was scheduled for completion by the beginning of the 2006–07 basketball season construction delays caused the renovation to drag on throughout the season. Most controversially, the access tunnel linking the new locker rooms in the annex to the arena floor was not completed until February, forcing both the Aggies and the opposition, along with the referees, to enter the arena via the stands for much of the season, Due to the building's layout, opposing teams had to enter and leave the court through the student section behind the south goal, causing several visiting teams (particularly WAC opponents) to publicly complain about the arrangement. The new tunnel was first used for the January 31 game against Boise State. The renovations were ultimately completed just in time for the start of the 2007 WAC Tournament, with finishing touches being applied in the final days before the event began.\n\nIn addition to its extensive history as a collegiate basketball venue, the Pan American Center has been a prolific host to a wide variety of concerts and special events in its five decades of service.\n\nFormer Special Events director Barbara Hubbard once remarked that \"it would be easier to compile a list of major recording acts that had not played the Pan Am than it would be to name all those that had.\"\n\nFor many years the building was a natural stop for many concert tours, as it was the largest venue along Interstate 10 between Houston and Phoenix.\n\nHowever, the construction of newer comparably sized venues in El Paso and Tucson, combined with New Mexico's gross receipts tax on concerts and special events, has led to a significant decline in the number of events scheduled at the arena.\n\nThe 2006–07 renovation and a new state law exempting the Pan Am from the gross receipts tax were both approved in part to help the arena once again become more competitive in booking major acts. The arena is now seen as an alternative to the similarly–sized Don Haskins Center which was originally built as such to this arena.\n\nBeyond its prolific concert resume, the Pan Am has seen a wide variety of other events, from bull riding events to professional wrestling and boxing matches.\n\nAmong the more notable events held in the arena are the 1996 Miss Teen USA pageant, presidential speeches (most recently a campaign stop by George W. Bush in 2004) and the annual Las Cruces International Mariachi Conference.\n\nThe arena also hosts the university's annual fall and spring commencement ceremonies as well as those of several area high schools.\n\nThe arena has also occasionally hosted the New Mexico State High School Basketball Tournament when the event's usual venue in Albuquerque was unavailable due to scheduling conflicts.\n\n"}
{"id": "1886295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1886295", "title": "Liacouras Center", "text": "Liacouras Center\n\nThe Liacouras Center is a 10,000-seat multi-purpose venue which opened in 1997 and was originally named \"\"The Apollo of Temple\"\". The arena was renamed in 2000 for Temple University President, Peter J. Liacouras. It is part of a $107 million, four-building complex along North Broad Street on the Temple University campus in North Philadelphia. The Liacouras Center is the largest indoor, public assembly venue in Philadelphia north of City Hall.\n\nDuring the 1980s, Temple basketball coach John Chaney sought to raise the profile of the men's basketball program through aggressively scheduling top-tier, out of conference opponents. Some programs, however, scoffed at the idea of playing at Temple's 3,900-seat on-campus arena, McGonigle Hall. Temple's President at the time, Peter J. Liacouras, supported the idea of a larger basketball facility in hopes of building Temple's national presence. Temple considered several locations and a site was purchased in 1988 for $7.3 million. The state of Pennsylvania awarded Temple $31.1 million in October 1992, despite disagreements between Chaney and then-City Council president John Street.\n\nThe project was approved in 1995, with a January 25, 1996 groundbreaking. Two nationally recognized architectural firms designed the building: Vitetta Group of Philadelphia, and Thompson Ventulett Stainback & Associates of Atlanta. The venue opened in the 1997-98 season. The first game played was a 76-61 Temple win over #18 Fresno State.\n\nThe venue was originally named \"The Apollo of Temple\". The name changed to the Liacouras Center just prior to Liacouras' retirement on February 13, 2000.\n\nThe Liacouras Center is managed by Global Spectrum, a subsidiary of Comcast-Spectacor. The Liacouras Center is Philadelphia's largest indoor venue north of City Hall and hosts home games for all of Temple men's basketball, along with some women's games. As of the end of the 2016-17 season, the Owls have amassed a 206-69 record in the building. \"The Esther Boyer Theater at the Liacouras Center\" is a small theater setup of 1,000 to 5,000 seats for more intimate presentations. The complex also houses the \"Independence Blue Cross Recreation Center\" (IBC), which includes a gym, basketball court, racquetball courts, and more. The IBC opened in the spring semester of 1998. The fourth building in the complex is a 1,200-space parking garage.\n\nBesides hosting Temple basketball games, the Liacouras Center is a full entertainment arena featuring concerts, family shows, Philadelphia KiXX games, Philly Roller Derby bouts, a full range of concerts, dramatic presentations, and family shows. Additionally, several high school graduations, as well as university graduations and convocation ceremonies, are held there.\n\nOn October 16, 2019 All Elite Wrestling held its third televised professional wrestling event at the Liacouras Center, broadcast on the TNT network in the United States.\n\nIn March 2020, the Liacouras Center was transformed into a field hospital with 200 beds arranged on the court in anticipation of a surge in need due to the COVID-19 pandemic and shortages in city hospitals. At the end of April 2020, operations of the field hospital began winding down as the rate of new COVID-19 cases in Philadelphia began to decline.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1886300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1886300", "title": "Colchester Sixth Form College", "text": "Colchester Sixth Form College\n\nThe Sixth Form College, Colchester is a sixth form college in Colchester, England. Established in 1987, it provides further education in the north Essex area.\n\nThe College is located on the former site of the Gilberd School. Recently constructed parts of the building were designed by local architects Martin Wilesmith and Bob Ward of the Roff Marsh Partnership.\n\nIn 1994 Blur played a show at the college – three out of four members of Blur have links with Colchester, with drummer Dave Rowntree having attended the Gilberd School.\n\nIn 2013, the college served as the backdrop for a submission in the official Brian May and Kerry Ellis crowdsourced music video for \"The Kissing Me Song\". A portion of the submission can be seen in the subsequent concert release \"The Candlelight Concerts: Live in Montreux 2013\".\n\nThe College offers courses and qualifications to more than 3100 students – including a large range of AS-Levels and A-Levels; GCSEs; and since 2003, the International Baccalaureate. It is mandatory for students studying AS/A-levels to take at least 3 academic subjects; most AS-level courses cover seven periods per week, while most A-level courses cover eight periods per week.\n\nAn extensive Additional Studies programme is run to suit individual interests or to support a career aim. Most courses run over two terms for between one and three periods a week, and some lead to nationally recognised qualifications.\n\nThe college's music Additional Studies are notable. It has an orchestra, a band, a choir, and has many music events throughout the year. Instrumental lessons are provided at college at a subsidised cost, and students taking music A-level or IB receive half an hour's free music tuition each week. The Essex Music Foundation also pays for the college's students to take grade 5 and 8 instrumental and theory exams, using the exam board ABRSM.\n\nThe Sixth Form College, Colchester has a College Council which is made up of tutor group representatives, generally one per tutor group. It is designed to help students raise issues and concerns about life around College and seeks to resolve these issues or concerns. Within the College Council, there is also The College Council Executive, which is made up of elected, executive positions of Chair (leading representative of students, chairs all Council and Executive meetings and maintains links with the community), Vice-Chair (deputises for the Chair when necessary and works with the sub-committees when required) , Treasurer (responsible for the College Council Budget and Expenditure) and Secretary (prepares agenda for and minutes of all meetings and deals with correspondence). The Executive is designed to spearhead changes and student-led activities around College and drive positive change. The Executive also has sub-committees for Arts, Charities, Culture, Environmental and Social, which elect a chair to sit on the Executive.\n\nThe Chair and the Vice-Chair sit on the College Governing Body\n\nA student volunteer-run facility that serves hot and cold drinks, and snacks. It is a Fairtrade, not-for-profit organisation supporting the Russ Foundation in India. It is open from September to May each year.\n\nThe college produces a magazine. All the articles are written by students. In the academic year 2009/2010 the magazine was named \"Insider\", following this in the academic year 2010/2011 the magazine was called 'Banter', 2012/2013 was named 'Vision', and in the academic year 2013/2014 the magazine was called 'Perspective'. It was called 'Pulse' during the 2016/2017 academic year when it was, yet again, renamed—this time to \"Insider\", again.\n\nThe college has run its own radio station (Storm Radio) since 1995. The shows are presented by students from both years and make use of mixed genres of music, while the station itself functions and is treated by the music industry as any other commercial radio station. The station can be received on 999AM/999MW in the College area and across the IT network in most classroom locations. It can also be picked up in certain areas around Colchester Town Centre. It usually broadcasts for 2 and a half hours a day, although for a one off special in 2002 it broadcast for 24 consecutive hours.\n\nThe college was assessed as 'Outstanding' by OFSTED in 2007/08, including 'outstanding' assessments in all 11 inspection categories. It was rated 'Good' in its most recent inspection in December 2017.\n\nIn 2017, the average A-Level grade was C-, and the progress score was −0.12, which is below the average progress score for schools and colleges in England.\n\nThe average International Baccalaureate score for students at the college was 33 points in 2015 and 2016, and 32 points in 2017 and 2018. This is slightly above the international average of 29 points.\n\n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "1886302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1886302", "title": "Scheumann Stadium", "text": "Scheumann Stadium\n\nThe Scheumann Stadium, formerly known as the Ball State Stadium, is in Muncie, Indiana. It is primarily used for football, and it is the home field of the Ball State University Cardinals. The stadium opened in 1967, and it has a capacity of 22,500 for football games.\n\nAnticipating rapid growth after transitioning from a teacher's college to a large state school, the Ball State University Board of Trustees approved construction of a new athletic stadium one mile north of campus in 1965. The stadium was completed in 1967 with a capacity of 16,000 for football. It replaced the previous stadium closer to campus, on University Avenue across from Ball Memorial Hospital. The site is now used as a band practice field. A grandstand on the south end of the stadium was added in the 1990s, increasing the capacity to 22,500. In 2005, the stadium was renamed after Ball State alumni and benefactors John B. and June M. Scheumann.\n\nIn 2007, the stadium completed a $13 million renovation. Planned improvements included new lighting for night games, enclosing the north end zone with lawn seating to create a 22,500-seat horseshoe-shaped venue, new concession stands, a facade update using brick, a larger press box, and private luxury suites. On August 29, 2013, a new video board was installed. Another video board was installed at Worthen Arena.\n\nFor a time, notable Ball State alumnus David Letterman jokingly campaigned via his television program to have the stadium named for him. When the naming was given to the Scheumanns for their donations to the university, the mayor of nearby Indianapolis (Letterman's childhood home), Bart Peterson joked that the city would rename the I-465 Beltway as the \"David Letterman Expressway\".\n\nMean game attendance at the stadium was at its highest in school history in 2008, with an average of about 21,000 visitors per game. This can be attributed to the team's success, as well as recent renovations to the stadium. A school record 10,546 students attended the September 6, 2008 game versus the Navy Midshipmen. The game was televised nationally on ESPN, and Ball State won, 35–23. The all-time record attendance for a game at Scheumann Stadium is 23,861, set on November 25, 2008 when Ball State completed an undefeated regular season by beating MAC rival Western Michigan. The Cardinals won handily, 45–22, pushing their record to 12–0, but they lost to Buffalo in the MAC championship game and to Tulsa in the GMAC Bowl.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1886304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1886304", "title": "Idealized cognitive model", "text": "Idealized cognitive model\n\nAn Idealized Cognitive Model, or ICM, is the name given in cognitive linguistics to describe the phenomenon in which knowledge represented in a semantic frame is often a conceptualization of experience that is not congruent with reality. It has been proposed by scholars such as George Lakoff and Gilles Fauconnier.\n\n"}
{"id": "1886306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1886306", "title": "Dance Revolution", "text": "Dance Revolution\n\nDance Revolution is a television series from CBS and DIC Entertainment Corporation, in association with Konami Digital Entertainment, Inc, produced by Brookwell McNamara Entertainment and CBS Television) (Sean McNamara & David Brookwell), and based on the video game series \"Dance Dance Revolution\".\n\nOriginally known as \"Dance, Dance, Dance!\", the series premiered on September 16, 2006, as part of \"KOL Secret Slumber Party on CBS\". The entire series had a focus on promoting fitness and nutrition to children. The series, however, was not renewed after its first season. Its last broadcast was on September 8, 2007.\n\n\"Dance Revolution\" was taped at Raleigh Studios in Hollywood, California.\n\n\"Dance Revolution\" was hosted by DJ Rick (a.k.a. Rick Adams) and the Slumber Party Girls (Caroline Scott, Cassie Scerbo, Karla Deras, Carolina Carattini and Mallory Low).\n\nEvery half-hour episode started with music from the house band, the Slumber Party Girls. Then DJ Rick would introduce the \"Dance Crews\" (the teams of contestants) and the judges. The Dance Crews would then start to perform their own dance routines. When they were finished, choreographer Leah Lynette would come to teach the Dance Crews some new styles of dancing. Finally, the Dance Crews would have a dance off. The judges would then declare who the winning Dance Crew was and the winners would move on to the next round, leading up to the finale, which awarded. $25,000 scholarship to the winner. Although \"Dance Revolution\" was inspired by the video game series \"Dance Dance Revolution\", there is nothing similar between the two except for the name.\n\n"}
{"id": "1886307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1886307", "title": "The Barley Mow", "text": "The Barley Mow\n\nThe Barley Mow (Roud 944) is a cumulative song celebrated in the traditions of the folk music of Ireland, England, and Scotland. William Chappell transcribed the lyrics in his two-volume work \"The Ballad Literature and Popular Music of the Olden Time\" (1855).\n\n\"The Barley Mow\" has become a drinking song sung while comrades empty their glasses. In one \"Barley Mow\" drinking game, any participant who fails to sing the song's (progressively expanding) refrain in a single breath must drink. In another, participants drink just after singing the second line in each verse (\"Good luck to the barley mow\"); if one's glass is not empty by the final verse, one must finish the drink after singing the line.\n\nA barley mow is a stack (mow) of barley, especially barley that was cultivated and then harvested. Barley is a grain that is commonly malted for brewing beer.\n\nThe verses of \"The Barley Mow\" wish good luck to various sizes of vessels of alcoholic beverages, and lastly to the barley mow, a venerable reserve of one of beer's key ingredients. Later verses supplement this list with roles and occupations associated with beer, from brewing, to distribution, to serving in public houses, to drinking. Each verse wishes good luck to a new subject, which is then added to the beginning of the litany recited in the second line of the refrain.\n\nThe song has several variations. \nThe 12 terms between \"landlord\" and \"round bowl\" are English units—particularly units used to measure the volume of alcoholic beverages. These are sung in descending order from largest (barrel) to smallest (round bowl). \"Round bowl\" (sometimes sung \"brown bowl\") indicates either a humble, wooden bowl, or a person's hands cupped together into the shape of a bowl. It can also refer to the small bowl suspended from the tap in a beer barrel that catches the drips.\n\n\"Company\" refers to the party of people gathered together singing the song. A \"slavey\" is a female servant, who assists in the brewing process. A \"drayer\" is a person who transports heavy loads of goods (such as barrels of beer) in a type of horse-drawn cart called a \"dray\". \"Daughter\" refers to the barmaid or serveuse in a family-owned public house.\n"}
{"id": "1886308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1886308", "title": "Fouts Field", "text": "Fouts Field\n\nFouts Field was a stadium at the University of North Texas, located in Denton, Texas. Its primary use from its opening in 1952 until 2010 was as the home field for North Texas Mean Green football. Over its 59-year history, Fouts Field was the college home of players such as Joe Greene, Abner Haynes, and Steve Ramsey.\n\nBy the 1940s, college football was beginning to firmly leave its mark as a popular sport in the United States. North Texas had spent its first 40 seasons at Eagle Field, which seated just 2,500 spectators on steel bleachers in an open area near the center of campus called Recreation Park, where the school's athletic events were held. As the popularity of football quickly outgrew the limited number of fans Eagle Field could hold, former football coach and Athletic Director Theron J. Fouts began pushing for a new master plan for recreational facilities on campus, including a new 20,000-seat football stadium with a track in the southwest corner of the university's property. The plan was approved, and construction on the new facility began in 1951.\n\nOriginally christened Eagle Stadium, the new venue opened on September 27, 1952 with a 55–0 win for North Texas State College over the North Dakota Fighting Sioux. The Eagles went 7-3 that season, including a 4–1 mark at the new stadium, winning the Gulf Coast Conference title.\n\nTragedy struck the North Texas community on April 27, 1954 as Fouts, who was set to retire that June, suffered a heart attack at his home in Denton. The administration of the university almost immediately announced plans to rename the venue Fouts Field in his honor, which was done prior to their 1954 home opener against Southern Miss on October 2.\n\nOver the next three decades, Fouts Field hosted some of the defining moments in the history of North Texas football. Prior to the 1956 season, Odus Mitchell recruited Abner Haynes and Leon King, both African-Americans, in what was still a largely Jim Crow-era south. After being promoted to the varsity squad in 1957, Haynes and King became the first black players to play major college football in the state of Texas.\n\nIn 1967, with the addition of Joe Greene to the defensive line, the Eagles allowed less than two yards per carry on the ground en route to a 7-1-1 record and a Missouri Valley Conference title. The ferocious defense, led by Greene, earned the team the nickname \"Mean Green,\" which soon replaced \"Eagles\" as the school's official nickname/mascot.\n\nFouts Field was nearly put out of use in the mid-1970s after the hiring of future Hall of Fame coach Hayden Fry. Fry began a bold plan to get North Texas admittance into the Southwest Conference; part of that plan included moving potential SWC games to nearby Texas Stadium in Irving, TX. In the meantime, Fouts Field was expanded to including new offices, a state-of-the-art weight room, and new locker rooms in separate buildings just to the right of the north grandstand. While Fry's teams at North Texas in the 1970s proved to be some of the best in school history, the plan to move to the SWC ultimately failed, and the mounting debt left over from the bid forced North Texas to drop down to Division I-AA in 1983.\n\nAfter a decade in I-AA, a coordinated effort by North Texas donors to purchase large blocks of seats at Fouts Field raised the attendance level enough for the program to be admitted back to Division I-A. The university also expanded the seating capacity, adding two separate sections of 5,250-seat bleachers in each endzone, which raised the total capacity to 30,500. The expanded Fouts saw a mix of good to meager years, culminating with North Texas clinching four straight Sun Belt Conference titles from 2001-2004 under Darrell Dickey before bottoming out with a 6–37 record from 2007-2010 under Todd Dodge. Throughout the 21st century though, it became more and more clear Fouts Field was no longer up to basic FBS-level standards: Despite the addition of artificial turf in 2005, the electric wiring throughout the venue was often faulty, mold easily grew in the weight room and press boxes, and old plumbing pipes that ran under the playing field often created a horrible stench on the North Texas sideline during hot August and September games.\n\nIn 2009, the university began construction of Apogee Stadium across I-35E from Fouts Field, scheduled to open at the start of the 2011 season. The final game at Fouts was played against Kansas State on November 27, 2010, a 49-41 North Texas loss.\n\nThe Mean Green finished their 59-year tenure at the stadium with a home record of 155-100-7.\n\nFollowing the departure of the football team, the use of Fouts Field by the university's athletics program was reduced to the school's track and field teams. The stadium was also used as a practice field by the Green Brigade Marching Band, as well as the university's ROTC program.\n\nIn 2013, the first phase of demolition began; the north grandstand and bleacher seats in the endzones were removed, leaving just the south grandstand, the playing surface, track, field goal posts, and 1994 scoreboard. The remnants of Fouts Field sat largely empty for the next five years, until demolition began of the remaining components on November 28, 2018, with the last vestiges of the venue cleared out of the lot by December 8.\n\nMany of the football scenes in the 1991 film \"Necessary Roughness\" were filmed at Fouts Field. The fictional Texas State Armadillos, the team featured in the movie, wore the same colors (green and white) as UNT's football team.\n"}
{"id": "1886311", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1886311", "title": "Gerald J. Ford Stadium", "text": "Gerald J. Ford Stadium\n\nGerald J. Ford Stadium is a stadium in University Park, Texas, with a Dallas mailing address. The stadium is used primarily for football, and it is home to the Southern Methodist University (SMU) Mustangs and is frequently used for local high school football games.\n\nThe stadium is named after Gerald J. Ford, a billionaire banker who provided most of the funding for its construction.\n\nOutside the northeast corner of the stadium is Doak Walker Plaza, honoring the former Heisman Trophy winner and SMU's greatest football star. The plaza includes a life-sized replica of the Doak Walker Award trophy, awarded annually to the nation's top college football running back. The northwest corner is connected to the Loyd All-Sports Center, which contains locker, training, and office space for SMU athletics, as well as the Spirit Shop, the office of the Alumni Association, and the Athlete Education Center.\n\nThe building stands on the site of the former Ownby Stadium, the school's previous on-campus football stadium. Ownby was demolished starting in late October 1998 in order to clear the land designated for the new stadium. Ford Stadium opened on September 2, 2000 with a football game against the University of Kansas.\n\nOn September 24, 2010, the regular season attendance record was set at Gerald J. Ford Stadium when 35,481 people watched the TCU Horned Frogs face off against the SMU Mustangs in the Battle for the Iron Skillet. TCU won the game and the Iron Skillet 41–24. The overall attendance record is set at 36,742 for the 2010 Armed Forces Bowl between SMU and the Army Black Knights.\n\nThe north-south oriented stadium is bowl-shaped, with stands on three sides (west, east, and north). The stadium is expandable to 45,000 seats by enclosing the horseshoe on the south end.\n\nIn 2012, SMU Mustang Athletics announced the construction of additional luxury suites, as well as the upgrading of infrastructure to the Paul B. Loyd, Jr. All-Sports Center to allow access to designated outdoor seating areas in the stadium. Construction was completed prior to the start of the 2013 season.\n\nOn July 26, 2016, SMU officials announced plans for an upcoming facilities project that will include a new indoor performance center for the Mustangs football team, as well as an outdoor natural grass football practice field. The additions are part of the initial phase of SMU's $150 million comprehensive facilities upgrade. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1886322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1886322", "title": "Ladd Observatory", "text": "Ladd Observatory\n\nLadd Observatory is an astronomical observatory at Brown University in Providence, Rhode Island. Founded in 1891 it was primarily designed for student instruction and also research. The facility operated a regional timekeeping service. It was responsible for the care and calibration of clocks on campus including one at Carrie Tower and another that rang the class bell at University Hall. Meteorological observations were made there from the time the building opened using recording weather instruments.\n\nIn addition to general astronomy courses it was also used for teaching civil engineering topics such as geodesy. Nautical science subjects, including celestial navigation, were taught there during the First World War.\n\nLadd began a regular schedule of open nights for public viewing in 1930. This led to the creation of the Skyscrapers amateur astronomy society in 1932 which regularly met at Ladd. The Skyscrapers then acquired the Seagrave Observatory in 1936 which was then used as a meeting place. Amateur astronomers from the group continued to volunteer at Ladd and also participated in Brown University solar eclipse expeditions. Members constructed a Schmidt camera for the 1937 Brown eclipse expedition.\n\nLadd was added to the National Register of Historic Places in 2000. It continues to be used by the Department of Physics at Brown for astronomy instruction. It is regularly open to the public as a science center and technology museum.\n\nThe observatory is named for benefactor Herbert W. Ladd who offered to fund the construction in the spring of 1889. The building was designed by the Providence-based firm of Stone, Carpenter & Willson in the Classical Revival style. The selected site was the highest point in Providence at the time, on what was once known as Tintop Hill on the East Side. Construction began in May 1890 and the building was dedicated on October 21, 1891. The total cost of construction and equipping the facility in 1891 was , .\n\nThe primary telescope is a refractor with a aperture objective and focal length of . The lens was figured by John Brashear following the design of Charles S. Hastings. The crown glass was made by Mantois of Paris and the flint glass by the optical works at Jena in Germany. The equatorial mount and mechanical clock drive were made by George N. Saegmuller. This telescope was used for scientific work such as lunar occultation timings to make a more precise determination of the orbit of the Moon. Instruments such as a filar micrometer could be attached to the telescope.\n\nAnother telescope, a meridian circle instrument, also made by Saegmuller, was used for observations related to timekeeping. Similer, but smaller, instruments were used for student instruction.\n\nAs a number of other observatories did in the late Ladd provided an accurate regional timekeeping service by transmitting a time signal via telegraph wire. Observations of select stars were made with the meridian circle instrument as the star transited (or crossed) the meridian. This data was then used to calibrate a high quality pendulum clock set to keep sidereal time. Calculations were then performed to convert sidereal time to local standard time. A second clock keeping standard time was equipped with a telegraphics break circuit mechanism to automatically generate the time signals. These precision clocks were known as astronomical regulators. Timekeeping instruments used at Ladd include regulators made by Robert Molyneux, Edward Howard, Hezekiah Conant, and Sigmund Riefler.\nPrior to the Ladd time service the city relied on time signals from either Harvard College Observatory or the United States Naval Observatory that were transmitted via Western Union Telegraph wires. In many cases these signals were found to be inaccurate due to tranmission delay or accidents. Time signals from Ladd were first sent on September 12, 1893. The observatory sold these time signals to Rhode Island Electric Protective (RIEP) company, a local fire and burglar alarm firm. The signals from Ladd were redistributed to RIEP customers including \"jewelers\" (i.e. clockmakers) who repaired and calibrated watches.\n\nThe signals were also used to directly control a clock network of several hundred slave clocks in various business offices. The revenue that the university received from the time signal service in 1906 was () per year. Another telegraph wire connected the observatory to the Fire Department at City Hall which was used to signal the accurate time to the community by fire alarm bells at noon and 8:30 p.m. every day. Time signals from Ladd were also used to synchronize the regulator used to ring the bell in the cupola of University Hall on the main campus. The bell marked the beginning and end of class periods.\n\nLadd first received experimental wireless time signals from the Naval Observatory in November 1913. The purpose of the experiment was to measure the difference in longitude between Washington and Providence. The signals were transmitted by the Navy radio facility NAA in Arlington, Virginia. In 1915 Brown installed a sophisticated \"wireless plant\" consisting of a antenna strung between a tower on University Hall and another tower on Maxcy Hall. The operator's station with transmitting and receiving equipment was located in the basement of Wilson Hall, a building midway between the two towers. Primarily intended for engineering instruction and physics experimentation it was also used to receive the time signals from Arlington. On November 24, 1916 the transit instrument observations were discontinued and the clocks were instead calibrated by the NAA signals. The transit observations resumed on April 10, 1917 due to a US government order to dismantle the radio set at Ladd when the U.S. entered the First World War. These calibration observations continued through October 16, 1919.\nCalibration by Naval Observatory time signals from radio station WWV resumed after the war ended. These early transmissions were longwave, so called due to the long wavelength. Frequencies, and corresponding wavelengths, from to were used. These transmissions required special equipment such as the installation at Wilson Hall to receive them. By the 1930s it had become common to use a simple and inexpensive shortwave radio of the kind used to receive broadcast programs. This radio could also be used to receive time signal transmissions from Greenwich, Paris, and Berlin. The radio was directly wired to the clock circuits to allow recording the time signals.\n\nThe sirens on fire stations continued to sound at noon using the time signals from Ladd until at least 1955. Clocks in a number of buildings in Providence were regulated using the signals from Ladd late into the . After determining no one was receiving the time signals, the transmissions were discontinued in 1973.\n\nScientists affiliated with the observatory include Winslow Upton, Frank Washington Very, Frederick Slocum, Robert Horace Baker, and Charles H. Smiley. Notable graduates from Brown or Pembroke who performed work at Ladd include Slocum (A.B. 1895, Ph.D. 1898), Leah Allen (A.B. 1907), and Harlan True Stetson (B.S. 1912).\n\nH. P. Lovecraft, author of weird fiction, had free access to the observatory for several years. He wrote astronomy articles for Providence newspapers based upon his study there between 1906 and 1918.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1886323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1886323", "title": "Bill Snyder Family Football Stadium", "text": "Bill Snyder Family Football Stadium\n\nBill Snyder Family Stadium is a stadium in Manhattan, Kansas. It is used for American football, and is the home field of the Kansas State University Wildcats football team. It is named after the family of head coach Bill Snyder. Over the past 29 seasons – from 1990 through the 2019 season – K-State is 158–43–1 () at home.\n\nThe stadium has an official seating capacity of 50,000. After new construction in 2013 and 2015, the exterior of two sides of the stadium is clad with limestone, and features towers with decorative limestone battlements – reminiscent of the appearance of the school's old World War I Memorial Stadium.\n\nBill Snyder Family Football Stadium opened as KSU Stadium in 1968, with a seating capacity of 35,000. It was the replacement for the on-campus Memorial Stadium, which hosted Kansas State football games since 1922 (and is still standing today). The first game played at the new stadium was on September 21, 1968 – Kansas State shut out Colorado State 21-0.\n\nIn 1970, 4,000 permanent bleacher seats were added to the east side and 3,000 temporary seats on the west side. Also that year, an AstroTurf playing field was installed in place of natural grass.\n\nOver the next two decades, the stadium received only periodic updates. First, the original turf was replaced in 1980 with a product called Superturf, and lights were installed prior to the 1983 season (temporary light standards were brought in for the 1982 game vs. Kansas, which was nationally televised by TBS). In 1988, the south end of the stadium was partially enclosed when the new Bramlage Coliseum was completed. A large reception room inside the coliseum now overlooks the south end of the stadium. Finally, prior to the 1991 season, another new artificial playing surface was installed and the playing field was named Wagner Field for the Dave and Carol Wagner family of Dodge City.\n\nIn 1993, on its 25th anniversary, KSU Stadium saw its first significant permanent addition – a five-level press box and luxury suites on the west side of the field, named the Dev Nelson press box. After the 1998 season, the stadium underwent another expansion, a $12.8 million project designed by HOK Sport that added an upper deck on the east grandstands, club seating, and more luxury suites, which increased the official stadium capacity to 50,300. Prior to the 2002 season, the artificial turf was updated to a more cushioned FieldTurf surface at a cost of $800,000.\n\nPrior to the 2006 season, another $5.6 million was used to renovate the locker-room complex and add new north end zone seating, reportedly raising the permanent seating capacity by approximately 1,900. The renovation also included new audio and visual electronics and a new hydrotherapy center. Although new permanent seating was added, the athletic department actually lowered the stadium's official seating capacity to 50,000 following the renovation.\n\nAfter the 2010 season the field was replaced with artificial gameday turf. Additional renovations unveiled for the 2011 season included the addition of concessions and restrooms in the east side upper deck.\n\nA new project regarding the south end zone seating, including a new concourse, new restrooms, and private box seating will be added to increase the gameday experience for the Wildcat fan base. This will begin May 2020 and is planned to be completed before the start of the 2021 football season.\n\nThe most significant addition to the stadium since its construction was the West Side Stadium Center, a $90 million project, which opened for the 2013 season.\n\nThe project was led by sports design firm AECOM (formerly Ellerbe Becket), out of Kansas City, with design support from Heery Design in conjunction with Construction Managers GE Johnson and Mortenson Construction. K-State broke ground on the project prior to the 2012 Spring Game. Initial construction process took place around the old Dev Nelson press box, and then on December 15, 2012, at 9:00 a.m., the Dev Nelson Press Box was imploded by controlled explosion to make way for the new center.\n\nThe approximately facility, clad in limestone, provides new amenities for fans and student-athletes. The new structure includes larger concession and restroom facilities, new ticket office and retail locations, a K-State Hall of Honor within the large main concourse, a student-athlete dining hall, new club and loge seats as well as additional premium suites and a new press/media level. An outdoor Tailgate Terrace provides fans a place to enjoy the tailgating atmosphere of a K-State game day. The second through fourth levels have outdoor suite, club and loge seating. The fifth level is designated for media and coaches on game-days and will be the new permanent home for the K-State Media relations office.\n\nThe center was officially dedicated on August 30, 2013, in conjunction with the unveiling of an 11½ foot bronze statue of head football coach Bill Snyder in front of the structure. The statue, weighing 1,800 pounds, was created by sculptor E. Spencer Schubert.\n\nIn 2015, Kansas State opened a new locker-room complex behind the stadium's north end zone, replacing the previous structure. The complex includes a new spectator seating area, new offices, locker rooms and strength training facilities. In 2016, the Northeast Connector was completed, which included additional seats for fans, as well as seating for the band, and a new video board. All of the seating materials for this addition were provided by Hanson Sports, Inc. The expansion joint systems were supplied by EMSEAL Joint Systems, Ltd.\n\nAfter the 2016 football season the stadium saw another set of upgrades. Coming in the form of a new limestone field wall. Along with updated sound and video throughout the stadium. Set to be completed before the 2017 season.\n\nThe West Side Stadium and the new football complex constituted Phases II and III of Kansas State's Master Plan for the future development of the university's athletic campus. The Master Plan is estimated to take 15 years to complete from the completion of Phase I (renovations to the east side's upper deck) in August 2011. Phases V and VI are in the planning stage.\n\nBefore the final game of the 2005 season, Kansas State offered to name the stadium Bill Snyder Stadium in honor of retiring head coach Bill Snyder. In 17 years, Snyder had turned the Wildcats, once the definition of college football futility, into a frequent championship contender in the Big 12 Conference. When he was asked about renaming the stadium, Snyder told school officials, \"If you are going to do it, name it after the people that I care about the most.\" Hence, the Regents renamed the stadium to honor the family of the coach who had led the team for 17 years.\n\nStarting in the 2009 season, Snyder returned to coach the team again, becoming one of only five coaches in Division I FBS history to coach in a stadium that bears his name, joining Bear Bryant (Alabama), Amos Alonzo Stagg (Chicago), Shug Jordan (Auburn), and LaVell Edwards (BYU).\n\n\nKansas State has exceeded the official capacity at Bill Snyder Family Stadium dozens of times; following are the top 10 crowds:\n\nThe facility has hosted a very small number of non-football activities. On September 5, 1987, Willie Nelson performed a concert at the stadium to raise money for Farm Aid, following a Kansas State football game against Austin Peay State.\n\nOn September 10, 2016, Bill Snyder Family Stadium hosted the Wildcat Kickoff which featured Zac Brown Band and Train as the headliners along with Phillip Phillips, David Ray, and Adley Stump.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1886328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1886328", "title": "Princeton University Stadium", "text": "Princeton University Stadium\n\nPrinceton University Stadium is a stadium in Princeton, New Jersey, United States. It is primarily used for American football, and is the home field of the Princeton Tigers. The stadium opened in 1998 on the site of Princeton's former stadium, Palmer Stadium, and seats 27,773.\n\nThe year and a half needed to tear down Palmer Stadium and build the new field where it had stood meant that Princeton would not have an operational stadium for the 1997 season. Because of this the team was forced to play all of its games on the road.\n\nThe stadium's exterior shell mirrors the layout of Palmer Stadium, and the grandstands are four sided, with a second deck added on all sides except the south. The press box and luxury boxes are located above the west-side upper deck. One of the stadium's structural pillars houses the University's new rock-climbing wall, which opened in the fall of 2008. In addition to the stadium itself, the building project included building a track to the immediate south of the venue, which shares the stadium's south end facilities. (Previously, the track was located inside the stadium.)\n\nRecently, FieldTurf was installed replacing the former grass surface at Princeton Stadium. This announcement was made in early 2006, and allowed the football team to complete its spring practice in the stadium. Princeton's sprint football team holds most of its practices inside the stadium, while the football team holds practices on the neighboring Campbell and Finney Fields. Since the Stadium's opening, only two Princeton Tigers have rushed for over 200 yards in a single game at home: Cameron Atkinson ran for 233 yards against Dartmouth on November 23, 2002, and all-ivy junior running back Jordan Culbreath rushed for 276 yards against Dartmouth on November 22, 2008.\n\nInvestor and 1979 alumnus William C. Powers, a former All-Ivy punter for the Tigers, made a $10 million gift to Princeton's football program, which is the largest donation ever to Princeton athletics. His donation funded a playing surface for the stadium field. In honor of Powers and his family, the University named Princeton Stadium's game field \"Powers Field.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1886330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1886330", "title": "Lane Stadium", "text": "Lane Stadium\n\nLane Stadium is a college football stadium in the eastern United States, located on the campus of Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University (Virginia Tech) in Blacksburg, Virginia. The playing surface of the stadium is named Worsham Field. The home field of the Virginia Tech Hokies of the Atlantic Coast Conference (ACC), it was rated the number one home field advantage in all of college football in 2005 by In 2007, it was ranked #2 on ESPN.com's \"Top 10 Scariest Places To Play.\" The stadium is named for Edward Hudson Lane, a former student, local businessman, and Virginia Tech booster, while the playing surface is named for Wes Worsham, a university donor and booster.\n\nFrom 1982 to 2014, Lane Stadium had the highest elevation of any Football Bowl Subdivision stadium in the eastern United States, at above sea level. That distinction now belongs to Kidd Brewer Stadium of Appalachian State University, at . (The highest field in FBS is at Wyoming's War Memorial Stadium, at .)\n\nIn 1963, school administrator Stuart K. Cassell, namesake of Cassell Coliseum, proposed building a larger stadium to replace the 17,000-seat Miles Stadium, and construction began on April 1, 1964. It took a total of four years to complete construction, but its first game was played in 1965, when VT beat William & Mary At the time, only the west stands and center section of the east bleachers were completed; construction was completed summer of 1968, with an official cost of $3.5 million. It seated 35,050 and featured a press box for guests, writers, stats crew-members, scouts, and coaches. The playing field has a conventional north-south alignment with the press box along the west sideline.\n\nThe stadium is named after Edward Hudson Lane a VPI graduate and a 1960s member of the Board of Visitors. Lane founded the Lane Company Inc., of Altavista, known for their dominance of the cedar chest business, a business started in 1912 with the technical help of Lane's old shop class professor from Tech. In the 1960s, Lane headed an educational foundation project which raised over $3 million for the original construction, with his challenge gift of Lane Company stock comprising the lead gift. Like many stadiums built at the time, it consisted of two bowed sideline grandstands with free-standing bleachers behind the end zones. The stadium's original form was substantially similar to that of BB&T Field at Wake Forest and Memorial Stadium at Indiana University.\n\nLane Stadium remained generally unchanged for 20 years, but in 1980 the east stands were expanded, increasing the stadium capacity to 52,500. Two years later, the Stadium installed a brand-new lighting system that would help the team get its first nationally broadcast game on WTBS, a 21–14 win over their state rivals, the Virginia Cavaliers.\n\nPrior to the 1989 season, the stadium added 16 flags and received a new paint job, including the maroon and orange stripes still inside the stadium.\n\nOn September 5, 1992, during the season opener against James Madison, Lane Stadium's playing surface was dedicated in honor of longtime supporters from Kilmarnock, Wes and Janet Worsham and renamed \"Worsham Field\". The Worshams pledged $1 million to the university's Second Century Campaign, which raised over $18.6 million, $1.7 million more than the original goal.\n\nIn the spring of 1994, renovations were completed on seven lower sections of the east stands. Renovations also included replacing concrete risers and the addition of wheelchair seating decreasing capacity to 50,000. Also, before the 1994 season, plaques bearing retired numbers of Tech heroes Bruce Smith, Carroll Dale, Jim Pyne, and Frank Loria were added to the wall in the north end zone. However, with the later addition of the north end zone seats, the four retired numbers now fly on flag poles above those stands.\n\nBefore the start of the 1998 season, the oldest bleachers were replaced with new locust wood and the stands were waterproofed. On the east side, the roof on the old visitors' locker room was replaced along with the bleachers above the dressing room.\n\nBefore the 1999 season, the university started work on the north end zone. The summer of 1999 saw the addition of roughly 2,100 seats to the north end zone increasing capacity to 53,130. In the summer of 2000, 3,000 more permanent bleacher seats were added to the north end zone increasing capacity to 56,272. That summer also saw the addition of a new scoreboard, known as Hokievision, installed behind the north end zone. The summer of 2001 saw the latest round of additions to north end zone bleachers — 600 seats for The Marching Virginians. This move brought the capacity down to 53,662.\n\nPrior to the 2002 season, the stadium saw 11,120 seats added in the south end zone to effectively enclose that end of the stadium increasing capacity to 65,115. The double-deck structure is similar to that of the Cleveland Browns' \"Dawg Pound\" section. It has bleacher, bench-back, and club seats. The structure is enclosed, but has gaps between the older structures and itself. This is the result of building codes and a desire to get fans even closer to the field.\nPerhaps the biggest addition to Lane Stadium was completed prior to the 2006 season. After the 2004 season, the old press box was removed and construction began on this west-side expansion, filling in to match what was built up during the 2004 season. The new boxes include a new press area, on the side toward the south end zone, with a dining area and improved facilities. Also, the fencing that surrounds the stadium was removed, and the area on the west side exterior of the stadium landscaped with walkways and a weekday parking lot for ticket patrons and Hall of Fame and Hokie Club visitors. New luxury suites, President's area, four private club seating areas, concession stands, ticket office, athletic fund offices, an Athletics Hall of Fame, and student academic services area were also included in this latest project. A two tier grandstand featuring 11,000 seats, 15 luxury suites, and a new visitor's locker room was completed. The $52.5 million expansion includes 23 luxury suites, a new press box, and club seating. The addition increased Lane Stadium's seating capacity to 66,233.\n\nHokie Stone was added to the walls of each end zone in 2005. New kicking nets were also installed in both end zones. A new, larger video screen, called 'HokieVision' was also added in the north endzone. Improved playing surface lighting was added as part of the renovation as well. The traditional \"Home of the Fighting Gobblers\" sign was also removed from the West Stands during this renovation (the sign is currently located above the HokieShop in the West Stands concourse). In an article in \"The Roanoke Times\" newspaper, it stated that Tech was not going to even think about renovating Lane Stadium again until about 2013, and it also stated that when Tech renovates Lane Stadium, the university will most likely tear down the student's section and replace it with new concrete bleachers and increase that area's capacity, and also add suites on top of it, and possibly connect the south side with the east and west sides.\n\nPrior to the 2012 season, the West Side Outdoor Club seating area was completely renovated and new luxury chairback seats were installed. The entire seating structure was reconfigured, which decreased the number of seating rows, subsequently allowing for more legroom from row to row, and reduced capacity to 65,632.\n\nIn time for the start of the 2013 season, a new \"Hokie Vision\" video scoreboard was installed. This board is completely LED and the screen itself would completely contain the size of the old scoreboard. There are four pylons holding up the board: the smaller, center two were used as the pylons for the old board and the outer two (both larger) are used in addition to the original pylons to hold up the new board. This new scoreboard ranks third largest college football scoreboard.\n\nA portion of the East stands' bleachers were replaced in Spring/Summer of 2017.\n\nDuring the 2018 season, Virginia Tech unveiled a commissioned statue of former head coach Frank Beamer in front of Lane Stadium's main entrance. The statue was erected to pay tribute to Beamer who coached at his alma mater for 29 seasons, winning 238 games and guiding the Hokies to 23 straight bowl games. The former coach was inducted into the College Football Hall of Fame in 2018.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1886334", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1886334", "title": "Luc-Julien-Joseph Casabianca", "text": "Luc-Julien-Joseph Casabianca\n\nLuc-Julien-Joseph Casabianca (; 7 February 1762 – 1 August 1798) was an officer of the French Navy in the 18th century. He was killed at the Battle of the Nile.\n\nCasabianca distinguished himself in the Royal French Navy, was a deputy for Corsica at the National Convention, then became member of the Council of Five Hundred. He was the commander of flagship \"Orient\", which transported Napoleon across the Mediterranean during his expedition to Egypt.\n\nDuring the Battle of the Nile of 1 August 1798, where Rear-Admiral Horatio Nelson destroyed the French fleet in Aboukir Bay, Casabianca fought heroically until his death. During the course of battle, he ordered Giocante, his 10-year-old son who accompanied him, to remain in a section of the ship until he called for him. Although the ship was on fire, the boy, who did not know that his father was no longer alive, refused to leave his post without receiving his orders. After the fire reached the gunpowder section, the ship exploded; the child perished, along with an unknown number of crewmen.\n\nFelicia Hemans made the death of Giocante Casabianca the subject of her poem \"Casabianca\", with its line \"The boy stood on the burning deck ...\", which became a classic of English literature and was studied in elementary school classes.\n\nAt least six ships of the French Navy have borne the name \"Casabianca\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1886335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1886335", "title": "Coarsegold, California", "text": "Coarsegold, California\n\nCoarsegold is a census-designated place in Madera County, California. The population was 1,840 at the 2010 census. The Picayune Rancheria of Chukchansi Indians, a federally recognized tribe, is headquartered in Coarsegold.\n\nCoarsegold has previously had several names, including Coarse Gold, Gold Gulch, Michaels, Oro Grosso, Texas Flat, and Coarse Gold Gulch. The place was first called Texas Flat after miners from Texas discovered gold there in 1849. By 1874, the name had changed to Michaels, honoring Charles Michaels, a local merchant. A rival mining camp inhabited by Mexicans there was called Oro Grosso, the Spanish translation of \"coarse gold\".\n\nThe current name derives from the California Gold Rush of the mid-19th century, when prospectors discovered coarse nuggets of gold in a nearby creek. At one time, several dozen gold mines operated in the area.\n\nThe Coarse Gold Gulch post office opened in 1878, changed the name to Goldgulch in 1895 and to Coarsegold in 1899.\n\nCoarsegold is located on Highway 41 between Fresno and the southern entrance to Yosemite National Park, at an elevation of . Nearby communities include Oakhurst, around away, Yosemite Lakes Park, and Indian Lakes Estates.\n\nCoarsegold has a Mediterranean climate (\"\" according to the Köppen climate classification system) with hot, dry summers and cool, wet winters. Its average annual precipitation is . It is located in hardiness zone 8b.\n\nThe 2010 United States Census reported that Coarsegold had a population of 1,840. The population density was 167.5 people per square mile (64.7/km²). The racial makeup of Coarsegold was 1,617 (87.9%) White, 11 (0.6%) African American, 50 (2.7%) Native American, 32 (1.7%) Asian, 6 (0.3%) Pacific Islander, 47 (2.6%) from other races, and 77 (4.2%) from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 156 persons (8.5%).\n\nThe Census reported that 1,840 people (100% of the population) lived in households, 0 (0%) lived in non-institutionalized group quarters, and 0 (0%) were institutionalized.\n\nThere were 766 households, out of which 184 (24.0%) had children under the age of 18 living in them, 452 (59.0%) were opposite-sex married couples living together, 70 (9.1%) had a female householder with no husband present, 28 (3.7%) had a male householder with no wife present. There were 29 (3.8%) unmarried opposite-sex partnerships, and 4 (0.5%) same-sex married couples or partnerships. 186 households (24.3%) were made up of individuals and 104 (13.6%) had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.40. There were 550 families (71.8% of all households); the average family size was 2.79.\n\nThe population was spread out with 338 people (18.4%) under the age of 18, 116 people (6.3%) aged 18 to 24, 295 people (16.0%) aged 25 to 44, 585 people (31.8%) aged 45 to 64, and 506 people (27.5%) who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 52.3 years. For every 100 females, there were 91.1 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 88.0 males.\n\nThere were 864 housing units at an average density of 78.6 per square mile (30.4/km²), of which 617 (80.5%) were owner-occupied, and 149 (19.5%) were occupied by renters. The homeowner vacancy rate was 2.8%; the rental vacancy rate was 5.7%. 1,492 people (81.1% of the population) lived in owner-occupied housing units and 348 people (18.9%) lived in rental housing units.\n\nChukchansi language classes have been taught at the elementary school in Coarsegold since 2008. As of 2012, Chukchansi classes are available for children and adults.\n\nEvery year from mid-October to mid-November, tarantula mating season takes place and the town is full of tarantulas. Locals go out of their way to protect and respect the arachnids during this time. A Coarsegold Tarantula Festival is held in late October, traditionally the Saturday before Halloween, including tarantula racing, a competition for the hairiest legs of both men and women, and a pumpkin dessert contest.\n\n\nThe 1993 computer-based adventure game \"\", is set in a fictionalized Coarsegold, California in the 1880s. The game was published by Sierra On-Line which was, at the time, based in nearby Oakhurst; the same company, under its prior name On-Line Systems, in 1981 published \"On-Line Adventure #3: Cranston Manor\", also set in Coarsegold.\n\nThe Coarsegold (Coarse Gold) mining site is the destination for stars Joel McCrea and Randolph Scott in the 1962 film \"Ride the High Country\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1886336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1886336", "title": "Wilf Lunn", "text": "Wilf Lunn\n\nWilfred Makepeace Lunn (born 1942 in Rastrick, West Yorkshire, England) is an English inventor, prop maker and TV presenter. He is best known for his regular appearances on the 1960s and 1970s UK children's television show \"Vision On\".\n\nLunn was born in Rastrick, West Yorkshire, England to deaf parents. His upbringing was to later allow him to teach lip-reading as well as religious education at Odsal House School for the Deaf in Bradford. In the first part of this self-made interview video series \"My Best Cellar\", available through his website, Lunn claims he was \"brought up in a cellar by deaf mutes\".\n\nThe parents of actor James Mason lived on the same street as Lunn who met Mason when he was visiting them. Mason introduced Lunn to agent Blanche Marvin. Lunn had already written a television play entitled \"Benny Rolly\" which, unusually for the time, was without dialogue and Marvin thought it would be of interest to the deaf. She arranged an interview with Patrick Dowling the producer of BBC's \"Vision On\" and Lunn took along some of his models to demonstrate. Dowling was unable to employ Lunn but suggested an exhibition of his cycles. On the opening night of the exhibition, which had been arranged by Marvin, TV presenter Joan Bakewell visited and invited Lunn to appear on \"Late Night Line-Up\" that night. This was Lunn's first television appearance.\n\nLunn was later invited to appear on the children's TV show \"Magpie\" on which he spoke on a variety of subjects including bottles and the history of the domestic smoothing iron. Meanwhile Dowling approached Lunn with a request to make a 'door-bell machine'. Lunn constructed the device and appeared with it on \"Vision On\". Lunn would go to appear on the programme for many years, with Tony Hart and Sylvester McCoy, demonstrating his latest inventions. He later appeared in several other series, including \"Jigsaw\" and \"Eureka\".\n\nLunn is a prolific constructor of novelty bicycles and an inventor of strange devices, amongst which was a collection formerly to be found in the Inventions Bar, Newcastle upon Tyne. Lunn has also appeared as an after-dinner speaker for many functions including the Edinburgh School of Architecture Winter School, and the Society of Industrial Artists Golden Jubilee. He has also been a member of the panel of judges for the World Disco Championship.\n\nWhen asked, in an interview with the b3ta website, \"In the event of the end of the world, what would be the last thing you'd do before death?\" Lunn answered: \"I'm constantly being told at the end I would turn to God. I always point out it was your God that made me an atheist. I have been teetotal for fifteen years, so I would turn to drink.\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1886337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1886337", "title": "Thomas P. Moran", "text": "Thomas P. Moran\n\nThomas P. Moran is a Distinguished Engineer at the IBM Almaden Research Center in San Jose, California. He has been active in the field of human computer interaction for a very long time. In 1983 the book he wrote along with Stuart Card and Allen Newell \"The Psychology of Human-Computer Interaction\" was published. It became a very influential book in the field, partly for introducing the Goals, Operators, Methods, and Selection rules (GOMS) model.\n\nHe founded and has been Editor-in-Chief of \"Human-Computer Interaction\", one of the leading journals of the field.\n\nHe is one of the first CHI Academy members and won ACM SIGCHI's 2004 Life Time Achievement Award. In 2003 he was inducted as a Fellow of the Association for Computing Machinery. In 2008 he was elected as a Fellow of AAAS.\n\nUnrelated to the other famous engineer, Thomas D. Moran.\n\n"}
{"id": "1886340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1886340", "title": "Mixer (appliance)", "text": "Mixer (appliance)\n\nA mixer, depending on the type also called a hand mixer or stand mixer, is a kitchen device that uses a gear-driven mechanism to rotate a set of \"beaters\" in a bowl containing the food or liquids to be prepared by mixing them. \n\nMixers help automate the repetitive tasks of stirring, whisking or beating. When the beaters are replaced by a \"dough hook\", a mixer may also be used to knead.\n\nA mixer may be a handheld mechanism known as an eggbeater, a handheld motorized beater, or a drill mixer. Stand mixers vary in size from small counter top models for home use to large capacity commercial machines. Stand mixers create the mixing action by rotating the mixing device vertically (planetary mixers), or by rotating the mixing container (spiral mixers).\n\nMixers for the kitchen first came into use midway through the nineteenth century; the earliest were mechanical devices. The demand from commercial bakers for large-scale uniform mixing resulted in the development of the electric stand mixer. Smaller counter-top stand mixers for home kitchen use soon followed.\n\nThe mixer with rotating parts was patented in 1856 by Baltimore, Maryland tinner Ralph Collier. This was followed by E.P. Griffith's whisk patented in England in 1857. Another hand-turned rotary egg beater was patented by J.F. and E.P. Monroe in 1859 in the US. Their egg beater patent was one of the earliest bought up by the Dover Stamping Company, whose Dover egg beaters became a classic American brand. The Monroe design was also manufactured in England. In 1870, Turner Williams of Providence, R.I., invented another Dover egg beater model. In 1894, Willis Johnson of Cincinnati, Ohio invented new improvements to the egg beater.\nThe first mixer with electric motor is thought to be the one invented by American Rufus Eastman in 1885. The Hobart Manufacturing Company was an early manufacturer of large commercial mixers, and they say a new model introduced in 1914 played a key role in the mixer part of their business. The Hobart KitchenAid and Sunbeam Mixmaster (first produced 1910) were two very early US brands of electric mixer. Domestic electric mixers were rarely used before the 1920s, when they were adopted more widely for home use.\n\nIn 1908 Herbert Johnson, an engineer for the Hobart Manufacturing Company, invented an electric standing mixer. His inspiration came from observing a baker mixing bread dough with a metal spoon; soon he was toying with a mechanical counterpart. By 1915, his 20 gallon (80 l) mixer was standard equipment for most large bakeries. In 1919, Hobart introduced the Kitchen Aid Food Preparer (stand mixer) for the home.\n\nOlder models of mixers originally listed each speed by name of operation (ex: Beat-Whip would be high speed if it is a 3-speed mixer); they are now listed by number.\n\nAn eggbeater is a handheld device with a crank on the side geared to one or more beaters. The user grips the handle with one hand and operates the crank with the other, creating the rotary action.\n\nA mixer is a kitchen utensil which uses a gear-driven mechanism to rotate a set of beaters in a bowl containing the food to be prepared. It automates the repetitive tasks of stirring, whisking or beating. When the beaters are replaced by a dough hook, a mixer may also be used to knead.\n\nA mixer may be a handheld mechanism known as an eggbeater, a handheld motorized beater, or a stand mixer. Stand mixers vary in size from small counter top models for home use to large capacity commercial machines. Stand mixers create the mixing action by rotating the mixing device vertically (planetary mixers), or by rotating the mixing container (spiral mixers).\n\nMixers for the kitchen first came into use midway through the nineteenth century; the earliest were mechanical devices. The demand from commercial bakers for large-scale uniform mixing resulted in the development of the electric stand mixer. Smaller counter-top stand mixers for home kitchen use soon followed.\n\nWhen selecting a mixer, the purchaser should consider how the mixer will be used. Electric mixers with more speed options give the user more control over the development of the mixture.\n\nStand mixers mount the motor driving the rotary action in a frame or stand which bears the weight of the device. Stand mixers are larger and have more powerful motors than their hand-held counterparts. They generally have a special bowl that is locked in place while the mixer is operating. A typical home stand mixer will include a wire whisk for whipping creams and egg whites; a flat beater for mixing batters; and a dough hook for kneading.\n\nStand mixers are generally available in either \"counter top\" (also called bench) or \"floor\" models. Heavy duty commercial models can have bowl capacities well in excess of 25 gallons (95 l) and weigh thousands of pounds (kilograms) but more typical home and light commercial models are equipped with bowls of around 1 gallon (4 l). Whether a mixer is a counter top or floor model depends on its size. Mixers that are 5 gallons (20 l) in size or smaller tend to be counter top mixers, while larger mixers tend to be floor models due to their size and weight.\n\nSpiral mixers are specialist tools for mixing dough. A spiral-shaped agitator counter-rotates while the powered bowl spins in the opposite direction. This method enables spiral mixers to mix the same size dough batch much quicker and with less under-mixed dough than a similarly powered planetary mixer. Spiral mixers can mix dough with less agitator friction than planetary mixers. This allows the dough to be mixed without increasing its temperature, ensuring the dough can rise properly. Spiral mixers are preferred for thicker products, such as dough for pizza, bagels or naan bread.\n\nPlanetary mixers consist of a bowl and an agitator. The bowl remains static, whilst the agitator is rapidly moved around the bowl to mix its contents. With the ability to mix a wide variety of ingredients, planetary mixers are more versatile than their spiral counterparts. Planetary mixers can be used to whip and blend, whereas spiral mixers cannot. They are normally used in Australia, India and \nEurope too. The mixers are used all over world.\n\nA hand mixer is a hand-held mixing device. A handle is mounted over an enclosure containing the motor. The motor drives the beaters which are immersed in the food to perform the mixing action. The motor must be lightweight as it is supported by the user during use. The user may use any suitable kitchen container to hold the ingredients while mixing.\n\nThe first handheld electric mixer patent was submitted by Sunbeam Corporation in 1953 and granted in 1961.\n\nA dough mixer is used for household or industrial purposes. It is used for kneading large quantities of dough. It is electrical, having timers and various controls to suit the user's needs. Some features of dough blenders include high speed, low speed and bowl reverse (these can be combined into a programme) and a kneading bar in the centre of the bowl.\n\n"}
{"id": "1886341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1886341", "title": "Mental space", "text": "Mental space\n\nThe mental space is a theoretical construct proposed by Gilles Fauconnier corresponding to possible worlds in truth-conditional semantics. The main difference between a mental space and a possible world is that a mental space does not contain a faithful representation of reality, but an idealized cognitive model. Building of mental spaces and establishment of mappings between those mental spaces are the two main processes involved in construction of meaning.\nIt is one of the basic components in Gilles Fauconnier and Mark Turner's blending theory, a theory within Cognitive semantics.\n\nBase space, also known as reality space, presents the interlocutors' shared knowledge of the real world. Space builders are elements within a sentence that establish spaces distinct from, yet related to the base space constructed. Space builders can be expressions like prepositional phrases, adverbs, connectives, and subject-verb combinations that are followed by an embedded sentence. They require hearers to establish scenarios beyond the present point of time. A built space depicts a situation that only holds true for that space itself, but may or may not be true in reality. The base space and built spaces are occupied by elements that map onto each other. These elements include categories that may refer to specific entities in those categories. According to Fauconnier's Access Principle, specific entities of a category in a space can be described by its counterpart category in another space even if it differs from the specific entity in the other space. An example of a built space can be seen in the example \" Mary wants to buy a book\". In this case, the built space is not that of reality, but Mary's desire space. Though the book in reality space refers to any book in general, it can still be used to describe the book in Mary's desire space, which may or may not be a specific book...\n\n‘if A then B’ sentences create another two spaces called foundation space and expansion space in addition to the base space. The foundation space is a hypothetical space relative to the base space set up by the space builder \"if\". The expansion space is set up by the space builder \"then\". If the conditions in the foundation space hold, the expansion space follows.\n\n"}
{"id": "1886344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1886344", "title": "Kelly/Shorts Stadium", "text": "Kelly/Shorts Stadium\n\nKelly/Shorts Stadium is an American football stadium in Mount Pleasant, Michigan. It serves as the home field for the Central Michigan University Chippewas. The stadium opened in 1972 and holds 30,255 spectators, making it the largest on-campus stadium in the Mid-American Conference. It is located on the southeast part of campus, along with most of the other athletic facilities.\n\nThe stadium was originally named Perry Shorts Stadium in honor of R. Perry Shorts, a Saginaw banker who was a 1900 graduate and a generous donor. The stadium, which originally seated approximately 20,000 spectators, was dedicated on November 4, 1972, when the Chippewas defeated Illinois State University, 28–21, before a Homecoming crowd of nearly 17,000. In June 1983, the CMU Board of Trustees voted to rename the facility Kelly/Shorts Stadium in honor of Kenneth \"Bill\" Kelly, who coached the Chippewa football team to a 91–58–2 record from 1951 to 1966.\n\nA $28 million expansion project following the 1997 season added 10,000 seats to the stadium, increasing its capacity to 30,199. A two-tiered press box, locker room, and nine guest suites also were included in the expansion project. The original artificial turf, the first to be used in the state of Michigan, has been replaced three times, most recently in 2016 when it was changed from Astroturf to FieldTurf. Permanent lights were installed before the 2006 season, making it the last stadium in the Mid-American Conference to do so.\n\nCMU's locker room, training room and equipment room are located in the stadium's north end zone, and the locker room is connected to the Indoor Athletic Complex (IAC) via a tunnel. The IAC houses the Dick Enberg Academic Center, coaches' offices, weight room, meeting rooms, CMU's Hall of Champions and indoor practice field with a wall-to-wall FieldTurf surface.\n\nThe stadium has also been used as a site for other events, including high school football playoff games, concerts, and graduation ceremonies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1886346", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1886346", "title": "Freddie Scappaticci", "text": "Freddie Scappaticci\n\nAlfredo \"Freddie\" Scappaticci (born c. 1946 Belfast) was a purported high-level double agent in the Provisional Irish Republican Army (IRA), known by the codename \"Stakeknife\".\n\nScappaticci was born around 1946 and grew up in the Markets area of Belfast, the son of Daniel Scappaticci, an Italian immigrant to the city in the 1920s. In 1962, at the age of 16, he was encouraged to sign for the football club Nottingham Forest although his father is said to have resisted the idea. He took up work as a bricklayer.\n\nHe was fined for riotous assembly in 1970 after being caught up in the Troubles and, a year later, was interned without trial at the age of 25 as part of Operation Demetrius. Among those interned with him were figures later to become prominent in the republican movement, such as Ivor Bell, Gerry Adams, and Alex Maskey. He was released from detention in 1974 and was by this time a member of the Provisional IRA.\n\nBy 1980, Scappaticci was a lead member in the Internal Security Unit (ISU) for the IRA Northern Command. The ISU was a unit tasked with counter-intelligence and the investigation of leaks within the IRA along with the exposure of moles/informers (also known as \"touts\"). Via the ISU, Scappaticci played a key role in investigating suspected informers, conducting inquiries into operations suspected of being compromised, debriefing of IRA volunteers released from Royal Ulster Constabulary and British Army questioning, and vetting of potential IRA recruits. The ISU has also been referred to as the \"Nutting Squad\". Various killings as a result of ISU activities have been attributed to Scappaticci.\n\nAfter the original allegations broke in 2003, Scappaticci, by now living in the Riverdale area of West Belfast, claimed his involvement with the IRA ended in 1990 due to his wife's illness. He denied that he had ever been linked to any facet of the British intelligence services, including the Force Research Unit.\n\nScappaticci's first involvement with British Intelligence is alleged to have been in 1978, two years before the Force Research Unit (FRU) was formed in 1980. He is said to have worked as an agent for the Royal Ulster Constabulary (RUC) Special Branch. The role of the FRU was to centralise Army Intelligence under the Intelligence Corps.\n\nThe former FRU agent turned whistleblower using the pseudonym \"Martin Ingram\" has said in his 2004 book \"Stakeknife\" that Scappaticci eventually developed into an agent handled by British Army Intelligence via the FRU. Ingram says that Scappaticci's activities as a high-grade intelligence source came to his attention in 1982 after Scappaticci was detained for a drunk driving offence. In 2003, Scappaticci was alleged to have volunteered as an informer in 1978 after being assaulted in an argument with a fellow IRA member. Ingram paints Scappaticci at this time as \"the crown jewels\", (the best) agent handled by the FRU. He cites a number of allegations against Scappaticci. His accusations centre on various individuals who died as a result of the activities of the ISU between 1980 and 1990. Ingram also alleges that Scappaticci disclosed information to British intelligence on IRA operations during the time period, involving:\n\n\nAside from providing intelligence to the FRU, Scappaticci is alleged to have worked closely with his FRU handlers throughout the 1980s and 1990s to protect and promote his position within the IRA. The controversy that has arisen centres on the allegation by Ingram that Scappaticci's role as an informer was protected by the FRU through the deaths of those who might have been in a position to expose him as a British agent.\n\nOn 11 April 2017, the BBC's \"Panorama\" programme featured a report on 'Stakeknife' entitled \"The Spy in the IRA\". Amongst those appearing are the current Northern Ireland Director of Public Prosecutions, Lord Stevens, 'Martin Ingram' and several others from Northern Ireland.\n\nIn 1993 Scappaticci approached the ITV programme \"The Cook Report\" and agreed to an interview on his activities in the IRA and the alleged role of Martin McGuinness in the organisation. The first interview took place on 26 August 1993 in the car park of the Culloden Hotel in Cultra, County Down. This interview was, unknown to Scappaticci, recorded and eventually found its way into an edition of the programme. The interview was posted on the World Wide Web as the 2003 allegations against Scappaticci surfaced.\n\nScappaticci appears to give intimate details of the modus operandi of the IRA's Northern Command, indicated some of his previous involvement in the organisation and alleges, amongst other things, that Martin McGuinness was involved in the death of Frank Hegarty – an IRA volunteer who had been killed as an informer by the IRA in 1986. It has since been alleged that Scappaticci knew the intimate details of Hegarty's killing because, as part of his duties in the ISU, he had reportedly been involved in the interrogation and execution of Hegarty regarding a large Libyan arms cache, which the Gardaí found. Ingram stated that Hegarty was a FRU agent whom other FRU members had encouraged to rise through the organisation and gain the confidence of key IRA members.\n\nThings deteriorated for Scappaticci when Sir John Stevens, the Metropolitan police commissioner who has been probing RUC and British Army collusion with loyalist paramilitaries in the killing of Protestant student, Brian Adam Lambert in 1987 and the killing of solicitor Pat Finucane in 1989, revealed that he knew of his existence. In April 2004, Stevens signalled that he intended to question Scappaticci as part of the third Stevens inquiry.\n\nA report in a February 2007 edition of the \"Belfast News Letter\" reported that a cassette recording allegedly of Scappaticci talking about the number of murders he was involved in via the \"Nutting Squad\", as well as his work as an Army agent, had been lodged with the PSNI in 2004 and subsequently passed to the Stevens Inquiry in 2005. It is unclear whether this audio is a recording made via the \"Cook Report\" investigation. There were several inconsistencies with the various media reports alleging that Scappaticci was Stakeknife. The Provisional IRA reportedly assured Scappaticci of their belief in his denials and has issued public statements suggesting that the announcement of the former as a \"tout\" was a stunt by the British government to undermine Sinn Féin and the Republican movement.\n\nIn January 2018, Scappaticci was arrested by police regarding offences including murder and abduction, but was released on bail. \nOn 5 December 2018, Westminster Magistrates’ Court sentenced Scappaticci to 3 months imprisonment, suspended for 1 year, after he pleaded guilty to possessing \"extreme pornographic images\". The pornographic materials were uncovered during an investigation into serious crime during the Troubles.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1886352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1886352", "title": "Danica Patrick", "text": "Danica Patrick\n\nDanica Sue Patrick (; born March 25, 1982) is an American former professional racing driver. She is the most successful woman in the history of American open-wheel racing—her victory in the 2008 Indy Japan 300 is the only win by a woman in an IndyCar Series race.\n\nBorn to a working-class family in Beloit, Wisconsin, Patrick began karting at the age of ten and achieved early success by winning her class in the World Karting Association Grand National Championship three times in the mid-1990s. She dropped out of high school with her parents' permission in 1998, and moved to the United Kingdom to further her career. Patrick competed in Formula Vauxhall and Formula Ford before returning to the United States in 2001 due to a lack of funding. In 2002, she competed in five Barber Dodge Pro Series races for Rahal Letterman Racing. Patrick later raced in the Toyota Atlantic Series for the next two years. Her best effort was third in the championship standings for the 2004 season where she became the first woman to win a pole position in the series.\n\nShe first drove in the IndyCar Series with Rahal Letterman Racing in 2005 and took three pole positions, equaling Tomas Scheckter's record of poles in a rookie season. She was named the Rookie of the Year for both the 2005 Indianapolis 500 and the 2005 IndyCar Series. She improved over the next two years with Rahal Letterman Racing in 2006 and later Andretti Green Racing in 2007. In 2008, Patrick followed up this victory to place sixth overall in the drivers' standings. She improved on this to secure fifth the following season, which saw her finish a career-high third at the Indianapolis 500, the best performance by any woman at the race. Patrick's overall form declined during 2010, but she still managed two second-places at oval tracks before leaving IndyCar after the 2011 season to focus on stock car racing full-time.\n\nPatrick began racing stock cars in 2010 in the NASCAR Nationwide Series (now Xfinity Series) with her best result coming in the form of a fourth-place finish at Las Vegas Motor Speedway in 2011. She placed a career-high tenth in the 2012 season standings and was the second woman to clinch a pole position in the Nationwide Series after Shawna Robinson in 1994. Patrick started in the Sprint Cup Series (now NASCAR Cup Series) in 2012. She became the first woman to win a Cup Series pole position by setting the fastest qualifying lap for the 2013 Daytona 500, finishing eighth. Patrick bested Janet Guthrie's record for the most top-ten finishes by a woman in the Sprint Cup Series in 2015. She stopped racing full-time after the 2017 season, but competed at the 2018 Daytona 500 and the 2018 Indianapolis 500 before officially retiring.\n\nPatrick was born on March 25, 1982, in Beloit, Wisconsin. She is the daughter of working-class parents Beverly Ann (née Flaten) and Terry Joseph \"T. J.\" Patrick Jr. Her parents met on a blind date at a snowmobile event in the 1970s when Flaten was a mechanic for a friend's snowmobile. Patrick Jr. raced snowmobiles, motocross, and midget cars. They have owned a Java Hut and a plate glass company. Danica Patrick has a younger sister, Brooke, a pediatric physical therapist. She was raised in Roscoe, Illinois, and had no initial interest in racing; Patrick thought of a career as either a secretary, a singer or a veterinarian. She was a cheerleader at Hononegah Community High School in nearby Rockton in 1996. She spent her off-time babysitting for a nearby family when she was not racing. When the girls were ten and eight respectively, their parents sought a hobby that would bring the family closer together. They saved money to purchase a pontoon boat, but its owner did not respond to their offer. The sisters told their parents of their wish to race go-karts after a friend of Brooke's allowed her to drive one; they were both given a go-kart.\n\nPatrick began karting at Sugar River Raceway in Brodhead, Wisconsin. Her father acted as her crew chief and her mother kept statistics on her racing. Patrick had no role models or idols; she was never \"striving to achieve female goals,\" but aspired to \"be the best [she] could be.\" In her debut race, she crashed into a concrete wall at due to a brake failure. She was not injured. Patrick improved to finish second out of twenty drivers at the year's end after a twenty-two race schedule. She gradually improved her eye to foot coordination, allowing her to set numerous age track records at Sugar River Raceway and Michiana Raceway Park. At age 13, Patrick asked her parents about moving to California so she could compete throughout the year; they declined, citing business commitments. Nevertheless, she ventured across much of the Midwestern United States, and the rest of the country, to enable her to race. To help defray travel expenses, the family sold merchandise featuring Patrick and imposed a rule that prevented her from undertaking activities that would harm her public image.\n\nShe won ten regional karting titles, and the World Karting Association Grand National Championship in the Yamaha Sportsman, and later HPV class three times: in 1994, 1996 and 1997. Patrick was accepted into the Indianapolis-based Lyn St. James Foundation Driver Development Program in 1996. She was taught auto racing's business ventures, and her driving abilities were further refined. Her father often contacted newspapers weekly to chronicle his daughter's performance. Additionally, ABC and MTV ran television segments on Patrick in 1997. This exposure led to her being hired by John Mecom Jr. (introduced to Patrick by St. James two years earlier) to compete in the United Kingdom racing circuit. Patrick and her father visited Mecom's family, who agreed to sponsor her on the condition she was sent to a high-quality driving school for further refinement of her racing abilities. She ended up attending three driving schools, including Track Speed School at Sebring International Raceway and the Formula Ford driving school. Patrick later competed in a Sports Car Club of America race at Daytona International Speedway in May 1998.\n\nPatrick's parents consented to her dropping out of high school midway through her junior year in 1998, and obtaining a GED certification. She moved by herself to England to advance her racing career and resided in the Buckinghamshire town of Milton Keynes. Three-time Formula One world champion Jackie Stewart helped Patrick and she socialized with drivers such as Jenson Button. Being both American and female, she was met with much opposition. The experience helped her develop a stronger sense of independence and learn to overcome adversity. Patrick received some financial backing from the Ford Motor Company; she later lost Mecom's support after one season following rumors that she was living an extravagant lifestyle. She successfully persuaded her father to underwrite her career.\n\nDuring the three years Patrick spent in the United Kingdom, she raced in Formula Vauxhall and Formula Ford, coming ninth in points in the 1999 British Formula Vauxhall Championship. She competed for Haywood Racing in Formula Ford and was Mygale's lead test driver. Patrick was uncompetitive in Formula Ford, claiming the equipment she received was of poor quality. Nevertheless, she came second in the 2000 Formula Ford Festival at Brands Hatch with Haywood Racing, tying Danny Sullivan's best performance by an American in the event. This led to her receiving a Formula Three test with Carlin in 2001. Jaguar Racing team principal Bobby Rahal organized a second test for her with the expectation it would lead to her being put in the Paul Stewart Racing development program; it was cancelled in mid-2001, after new owner Niki Lauda fired Rahal. That year, she was awarded the Gorsline Scholarship Award as the most aspiring road course competitor, and was recognized as the top female open wheel race car driver with experience on the international scene.\n\nPatrick had a difficult season as the Mygale cars she drove did not suit her smooth driving style, and was outpaced by her teammates. Ford later terminated her program as they suspected the capital they gave her was being misused and felt she was not getting enough technical support. Patrick returned to the United States later that year after her funding dried up. She began negotiations to drive a BMW M3 for Team PTG in the American Le Mans Series in 2002, which ended when BMW withdrew over a technological dispute. Her 2002 campaign began with the fund-raising Toyota Pro/Celebrity Race, where she defeated Tommy Kendall to win the professional class, and placed third overall. Patrick and her father traveled to race tracks on weekends with expectations of her being hired by a team owner. She spoke to Rahal about a race seat in June that year; he signed her to a three-year contract at Milwaukee Mile. That month, Patrick tested the ppc Racing Ford Taurus NASCAR Busch Series car in a two-day test session at Greenville-Pickens Speedway.\n\nShe took part in five races in the Barber Dodge Pro Series, placing 13th in points with a best finish of fourth at Molson Indy Vancouver. Patrick switched to the Toyota Atlantic Series in 2003, and was the first woman to race in the championship since 1974. The season saw her secure the first podium for a woman in series' history at the season-opening race in Monterey. She improved on this by finishing second in Miami at the year's end. Patrick was sixth in the drivers' standings with five top-five finishes. In June that year, she made her sports car debut at the Grand Prix of Atlanta, part of the American Le Mans Series, partnering Jérôme Policand in the No. 80 GTS-class Prodrive Ferrari 550, finishing fourth in class and tenth overall. In 2004, Patrick competed in the Toyota Atlantic Series for the second consecutive year, becoming the first woman to win a pole position in series' history at the Portland International Raceway race. She took the points lead after finishing second, making her the first woman to lead the championship standings. Patrick ended the season third in points with ten top-five finishes in twelve races.\n\nIn December 2004, Rahal Letterman Racing named Patrick to their IndyCar Series roster for 2005 after the team found the resources to run a third car. She debuted at the season-opening race at Homestead-Miami Speedway, starting ninth and sustaining a crash which led to her being hospitalized for a mild concussion. In the season's fourth race, the Indy Japan 300 at Twin Ring Motegi, Patrick started second and led 32 laps before settling for her best finish of the season, fourth. After setting the fastest overall practice speed at the Indianapolis 500, she started fourth and missed out on winning the race as she was required to conserve fuel. She came fourth after leading 19 laps and achieved multiple firsts for women at the track. Patrick took her first career pole position at the season's eighth race at Kansas Speedway, becoming the second woman in IndyCar Series history to achieve the feat after Sarah Fisher in 2002. She took two more pole positions at Kentucky Speedway and Chicagoland Speedway to match Tomas Scheckter's record for the most pole positions in a rookie season. Patrick ended 2005 with an 18th-place finish at California Speedway after a clash with Jaques Lazier, finishing her rookie season with 325 points (12th in the points' standings) and seven top-ten finishes. She was named Rookie of the Year for both the Indianapolis 500 and the IndyCar Series.\n\nPatrick returned to Rahal Letterman Racing for the 2006 season. In January, she made her endurance racing debut at the 24 Hours of Daytona, co-driving a Howard-Boss Motorsports Daytona Prototype-class Pontiac Crawford shared by Rusty Wallace, Allan McNish and Jan Lammers. The quartet was in contention for the victory, but retired from overheating problems. Although she qualified third for the season-opening Toyota Indy 300, her team withdrew after teammate Paul Dana was killed in a practice session accident on the day of the race. Thus, Patrick's 2006 IndyCar campaign began at the first road course round of the season, the Grand Prix of St. Petersburg, where she finished sixth; she came eighth at the Indy Japan 300 at Motegi. At the Indianapolis 500, Patrick finished eighth after starting tenth. The rest of her season was modest with four top-tens, which included a season-high placing of consecutive fourth-position finishes: first at the Firestone Indy 200 at Nashville Speedway, and then the ABC Supply Company A.J. Foyt 225 at Milwaukee Mile. Patrick came ninth in the final standings with 302 points. In November, the March of Dimes awarded her the title of Sportswoman of the Year in celebration of her dedication and success.\n\nBefore the 2007 season, Patrick moved to Andretti Green Racing, in place of Bryan Herta in its No. 7 Dallara-IR05 Honda. She opened her season with two top-ten finishes in the first four races (eighth at St. Petersburg and seventh at Kansas). Patrick started the Indianapolis 500 in eighth position. She raced competitively with the leaders, and finished in the same position she started, when the race was halted by rain after 166 laps. Patrick clinched her second consecutive eighth-place finish at the ABC Supply Company A.J. Foyt 225 which was overshadowed by a physical confrontation with Dan Wheldon; the two reconciled after a private meeting with IndyCar president Brian Barnhart. She took her then best career finish with a third at the Bombardier Learjet 550, and improved on this result by clinching second at the season's penultimate race, the Detroit Indy Grand Prix at Belle Isle Street Circuit. Patrick closed off the year by coming eleventh at the season-closing Peak Antifreeze Indy 300 at Chicagoland Speedway, to place seventh in the drivers' standings with 424 points and eleven top-ten finishes.\n\nTo begin the 2008 season, her second with Andretti Green Racing, Patrick scored her then best career Homestead finish of sixth. She followed that up with another top ten by scoring a tenth-place finish at St. Petersburg. At the Indy Japan 300 at Twin Ring Motegi on April 20, Patrick moved to the front of the field with three laps remaining after the previous leaders were forced to make pit stops for fuel and held the first position to secure her maiden IndyCar victory. This made her the first woman to win a top-level sanctioned open wheel car racing event. At the season's fourth round at Kansas Speedway, Patrick finished 19th after a hubcap failure. After qualifying fifth for the Indianapolis 500, she retired from the race early after a collision with Ryan Briscoe in the pit lane. Thereafter, Patrick finished within the top ten for five of the next six races in the season. At Mid-Ohio Sports Car Course, an incident with Milka Duno in practice turned into a confrontation before walking away. She ended the season with three further top-ten finishes with a best of fifth at Infineon Raceway. Patrick finished sixth in the final standings with 379 points, the highest placed American over the course of the season.\n\nIn the 2009 off-season, she made her second appearance at the 24 Hours of Daytona and teamed up with Casey Mears, Andy Wallace, and Rob Finlay in the No. 2 Daytona Prototype class Pontiac Crawford DP08 fielded by Childress-Howard Motorsports, finishing eighth in class and overall after overcoming several mechanical issues. Patrick again returned to Andretti Green Racing for the 2009 season. She placed 19th in the first race of the season, the Grand Prix of St. Petersburg, after clashing with Raphael Matos while in ninth place. Patrick recovered to finish fourth and fifth in the next two races of the season, at Long Beach and Kansas. She took her best career finish in five attempts at the Indianapolis 500 by finishing in third position. This set a new record for the highest-placed finish for a woman in Indianapolis 500 history. For the rest of the season, she scored seven more top-ten finishes with her best being a pair of fifth positions at the Milwaukee and Richmond races. Patrick finished the season fifth overall in the point standings, her highest finish to date. This fifth-place finish was not only the highest of any of the Andretti drivers, but of any non-Penske or Chip Ganassi Racing driver for the season. In December, she signed a contract extension that would see her through the next two seasons, with the option for a third in 2012.\n\nThe 2010 season saw Patrick return to drive with the newly renamed Andretti Autosport in the IndyCar Series, as well as a limited schedule with JR Motorsports in the NASCAR Nationwide Series (now Xfinity Series). As in the previous year, her season began poorly as she could only muster a 15th-place finish at the inaugural São Paulo Indy 300 after spinning in inclement weather. Nevertheless, at the season's second round, the delayed Honda Grand Prix of St. Petersburg, Patrick made her first appearance in the top in seventh. At the Indianapolis 500, she qualified a career low 23rd; in the race, Patrick struggled with her car en route to finishing sixth. The Firestone 550 at Texas Motor Speedway one week later was her best performance of the season, which saw her lead one lap and finish in second. At the Indy Grand Prix of Sonoma, Patrick set a new series record for the most consecutive races running at the finish with her 29th event passing without her failing to finish. She ended her season by equaling her best result of the season in the final IndyCar race at Homestead-Miami Speedway which enabled her to finish tenth in the drivers' standings with 367 points.\n\nIn January 2011, Patrick's contract required her to inform Andretti team owner Michael Andretti of her plans for 2012 and she told him of her intention to leave. The beginning of the 2011 season saw her struggle in comparison with her previous two years at Andretti. Patrick twice suffered car damage at the season-opening Grand Prix of St. Petersburg, after collisions with Justin Wilson and J. R. Hildebrand relegated her to twelfth. She struggled in qualifying for the Indianapolis 500. Because her car failed a technical inspection, she was placed at the back of the qualifying line, and took 26th despite rain threatening to stop her setting a lap time. Patrick led ten laps in the race and was tenth after conserving fuel. She then took a further six top-ten finishes heading into the final race of the season with her best finish (fifth) coming at the Milwaukee 225. At the season-closing IndyCar World Championship at Las Vegas Motor Speedway, Patrick was one of nineteen drivers who avoided a fifteen car pile-up that killed Dan Wheldon; the race was abandoned and she and the rest of the field were not scored. This was her final regular season IndyCar race as she announced in August 2011 of her plans to focus on the NASCAR Sprint Cup Series and Nationwide Series full-time from 2012. Patrick placed tenth in the drivers' standings with 314 points.\n\nPatrick's final race was the 2018 Indianapolis 500. Having difficulty with the car setup, she lost control going into turn two on Lap 68 and crashed into the outside wall. Patrick came back down the track and then hit the inside wall. Patrick started in seventh position and was ranked thirtieth.\n\nPatrick began her stock car racing career by entering an ARCA Racing Series race in the No. 7 JR Motorsports Chevrolet at Daytona International Speedway. She finished in sixth place after spinning early in the race. At the season-opening Nationwide Series race, the DRIVE4COPD 300, Patrick started 15th and finished 35th after being caught up in a 12-car crash. In the season's third race, the Sam's Town 300 at Las Vegas Motor Speedway, she finished 36th after colliding with Michael McDowell on the 82nd lap. Although Patrick struggled during her rookie season, she had her best finish of the year at the season-ending Ford 300 at Homestead-Miami Speedway where she came 19th. She finished 43rd in the drivers' standings, with 1,032 points in 13 starts. In September, Patrick entered the K&N Pro Series East race at Dover International Speedway to broaden her stock car racing experience. She finished sixth after briefly leading the race.\n\nPatrick remained at JR Motorsports for the 2011 Nationwide Series, and ran a part-time schedule that consisted of twelve races. She finished 14th and 12th at the season's opening two races at Daytona and Phoenix International Speedway. Patrick became the highest-finishing woman in national NASCAR history at Las Vegas when she surpassed Sara Christian's 62-year record to place fourth in the Sam's Town 300 race (the highest in her Nationwide Series career). She took her third top-ten finish of the season when she came tenth in the Subway Jalapeño 250 at Daytona after leading a total of 13 laps before being involved in a multi-car incident coming to the checkered flag on the last lap of the race. Patrick's best performance throughout the rest of the season was an eleventh-place finish at Texas Motor Speedway; she came 26th in points, with 321 accrued.\n\nIn 2012, Patrick raced full-time in the Nationwide Series for JR Motorsports and began competing a limited schedule with ten races in the Sprint Cup Series with Stewart-Haas Racing in an alliance with Tommy Baldwin Racing (TBR) in the No. 10 Chevrolet Impala. Because TBR moved its top-35 owner points from the No. 36 driven by Dave Blaney to the new No. 10, she was guaranteed a spot at the Daytona 500. Patrick began her season by qualifying on the pole for the DRIVE4COPD 300, making her the second woman to achieve this feat in national NASCAR after Shawna Robinson in 1994. Her participation in the Daytona 500 was over after one lap when she was involved in a four-car accident, finishing 38th, 74 laps behind race winner Matt Kenseth. Patrick closed off her first full-time Nationwide Series season with four top-ten finishes, and placed tenth in the final points standings. Her season's best result was at Texas Motor Speedway where she came eighth. Patrick's best road course finish in her NASCAR career came at Circuit Gilles Villeneuve, coming ninth and led a season-high twenty laps.\n\nTeam owner Tony Stewart invited Patrick to compete in the fund-raising Prelude to the Dream dirt track race at Eldora Speedway in June. She finished three laps down in 15th place after hitting the wall and being off the pace. In her fourth Cup start, the Irwin Tools Night Race at Bristol Motor Speedway, she was running strong before she crashed on lap 436 from contact with Regan Smith, which became her first did not finish (DNF) in the series. Patrick had her first lead lap finish at the AAA Texas 500 at Texas Motor Speedway, finishing 24th, the last car on the same lap as the leaders. During the Hollywood Casino 400 at Kansas Speedway, Patrick spun Landon Cassill in turn one, but ended up wrecking her car on the outside wall. Cassill, who managed to save his car, said on his radio: \"Rule No. 1 in stock car racing is learn how to wreck someone without wrecking yourself.\" Her final race of the season at Phoenix was embroiled in controversy as her car leaked oil and NASCAR elected not to wave the caution flags, causing an accident between Kurt Busch and Ryan Newman. This decision was criticized by drivers and team owners. With no top-tens, two DNFs and an average finish of 28.3 in her ten starts; Patrick was not classified in the final standings since she did not contest the full championship, so was ineligible to score points.\n\nIn the 2013 season, Patrick returned to Stewart-Haas Racing to contest her first full season in the Sprint Cup Series. She was assigned teammate Ryan Newman's former crew chief Tony Gibson and his pit crew. Patrick simultaneously became the first woman to clinch the pole position for the Daytona 500 and the first female to achieve the feat in the Sprint Cup Series. She ran strongly in the top ten for most of the race, but fell back from third place in the final three laps to finish eighth, becoming the highest placing woman driver in the history of the Daytona 500. Having led 5 laps, she joined an elite club of only 14 drivers to have led both the Daytona 500 and the Indianapolis 500. In the May exhibition Sprint Showdown at Charlotte Motor Speedway, Patrick finished ninth and advanced to the Sprint All-Star Race by virtue of a fan vote. She started from the 22nd position and finished two spots higher than that.\n\nPatrick struggled after the season opener, failing to finish in the top-fifteen in the next 28 races over the next seven months. In 36 races, she had one top-ten, an average finish of 26.1, five DNFs and was 27th in the standings with 646 points. She was second in the Rookie of the Year standings after a season-long battle with Ricky Stenhouse Jr. In the Nationwide Series, Patrick drove the season-opening DRIVE4COPD 300 and the first of two races at Talladega Superspeedway, the Aaron's 312, in the No. 34 Turner Scott Motorsports car. She finished thirty-sixth and thirty-ninth after a respective engine failure and crash.\n\nPatrick remained with Stewart-Haas Racing for the 2014 Sprint Cup Series. As she won the pole for the 2013 Daytona 500, she was eligible for the Sprint Unlimited, finishing sixteenth after being involved in a multi-car accident. Patrick started twenty-seventh for the Daytona 500 and led briefly during the pit stop cycle before Aric Almirola clipped her, sending her car into a wall that lacked a SAFER barrier; she finished 40th. She set three records during the season: the first came at the Aaron's 499 where she was the first female to lead at the track, and her finishing position of 22nd was the best for any woman at the circuit. Patrick had the best qualifying performance for any woman at a non-restrictor plate track when she put her car fourth on the grid for the Coca-Cola 600.\n\nShe clinched her best finish in the Sprint Cup Series with a sixth at the Oral-B USA 500 at Atlanta Motor Speedway, making her the second woman to take a top ten at the circuit; this beat the record of Janet Guthrie's tenth-place finish in 1978. She was assigned teammate Kurt Busch's crew chief Daniel Knost and his pit crew for the season's final three races, and was later appointed her full-time crew chief for 2015. At the season's end, Patrick finished 28th in points, one position down from the previous year, although she finished with 89 more points than her rookie season. She also had an average finish of 23.7, 2.4 positions better than her rookie year, with three top-tens and four DNFs. Early in the season, Patrick again drove for Turner Scott Motorsports in its No. 34 car at the season-opening DRIVE4COPD 300, starting third and finishing 19th.\n\nFor 2015, Patrick again stayed with Stewart-Haas Racing. She began her season in the Sprint Unlimited by finishing tenth after escaping with collateral damage from a multi-car accident. Patrick started at the back of the field for the season-opening Daytona 500 and finished 21st. After scoring two top-tens (seventh at the STP 500 at Martinsville Speedway and ninth at the Food City 500 at Bristol Motor Speedway), she eclipsed Janet Guthrie for the most top tens by a woman in Sprint Cup Series history. Patrick led two laps of the Quicken Loans 400 at Michigan International Speedway during the pit stop cycle, and finished 16th, and at the Quaker State 400, she became the first woman to start a hundred Cup Series races. At the Fall Martinsville race, she had twenty-five owner and drivers points deducted, was fined $50,000, and put on probation by NASCAR until the end of 2015 for an intentional retaliatory crash against David Gilliland. In 36 races, Patrick scored 716 points, placing her 24th in the drivers' standings, the highest of her career. She had two top-ten finishes, an average finish of 23.5, and failed to finish four times.\n\nPatrick had signed a multi-year contract which allowed her to stay at Stewart-Haas Racing for 2016. She also switched crew chiefs from Daniel Knost to Billy Scott for the upcoming season. At the first race of the season, the Daytona 500, she retired when she made contact with Greg Biffle on the 184th lap, spun into the grass and heavily damaged her car's front end. Patrick was fined $20,000 for gesturing to Kasey Kahne after he wrecked her car at the Auto Club 400. She was involved in a high-speed crash with Matt Kenseth at Talladega which necessitated a chest radiograph. Patrick struggled with form during the season, but did improve her average result for the fifth consecutive year to a career-high 22.0 in thirty-six starts. Her best result of the season was eleventh place at the fall Charlotte race, and she led a career-high 30 laps. Patrick was again 24th in the final drivers' standings, but had fewer points than the previous season, at 689 accrued, and did not finish three races she entered.\n\nPatrick remained with Stewart-Haas Racing for the duration of the renamed Monster Energy NASCAR Cup Series in 2017. She began her campaign with her best finish in any NASCAR Cup Series race with a fourth place at the Advance Auto Parts Clash exhibition race at Daytona. Patrick was credited with a 33rd-place finish for the season-opening Daytona 500 after she was forced into retirement from being caught up in a multi-car accident. She later took her first top-ten finish in seventy-seven races when she placed tenth at Dover on June 4. On November 17, Patrick announced that she would step away from full-time racing after the season finale at Homestead-Miami, though she also announced plans to compete in the 2018 Daytona 500 and 2018 Indianapolis 500. She retired halfway through when her right-rear tire blew after glancing the wall and she collided heavily with another barrier. Patrick finished the 2017 season with one top-ten, eleven DNFs and an average finish of 23.8. She scored 511 points, putting her twenty-eighth in the drivers' standings.\n\nIn January 2018, it was announced that Patrick would be reunited with longtime partner GoDaddy for sponsorship of the \"Danica Double\" and assistance as she moved on to her life as a business woman and entrepreneur. For her final NASCAR race at the 2018 Daytona 500, Patrick signed with Premium Motorsports to drive its No. 7 Chevrolet Camaro ZL1 after discussions with Chip Ganassi Racing did not yield in a race seat. Her final Daytona 500 came to an early end when she was involved in a six-car accident on lap 102, placing 35th in the final results. Patrick concluded her NASCAR career with no wins, and finished in the top ten in 3.6% of her 191 races. On March 7, 2018, it was announced that her final Indianapolis 500 appearance would be in a third car for Ed Carpenter Racing.\n\nPatrick was scheduled to test for Formula One team Honda in November 2008, but this was called off when the Honda team pulled out of the sport. In late 2009, the American Formula One team US F1 allegedly considered testing Patrick for a potential drive in 2010. However, she said she was not contacted by anyone from the team and had no plans to leave the IndyCar Series for Formula One at the time. After the announcement of the return of Formula One to the United States in 2012, Formula One chief executive Bernie Ecclestone said that \"to have someone like Danica Patrick in F1 would be a perfect advert.\" However, in 2015, Patrick asserted that she had no desire to move into Formula One, because she was too old to switch racing series; she said that she felt more comfortable being around her family and friends in NASCAR.\n\nPatrick has hosted several TV shows on \"Spike\", including \"Powerblock\", and featured in the 2005 documentary \"Girl Racers\". She drove a Pagani Zonda Roadster around the streets of Monaco in the music video of Jay-Z's song \"Show Me What You Got\" in 2006. That year, she published her autobiography, \"Danica: Crossing the Line\". On April 24, 2008, Patrick was a guest on the \"Late Show with David Letterman\" after winning her first IndyCar race. During testing at Phoenix International Raceway, GoDaddy.com filmed a commercial with her that aired nationally. At the same test, at GoDaddy's invitation, Patrick met with Paul Teutul Sr., and Mikey Teutul, and later appeared in an episode of \"American Chopper\". She was also in a 2008 \"inspirational, feel-good\" GoDaddy commercial called \"Kart\" that features a girl who aspires to be like Patrick. On February 1, 2009, Patrick appeared in two GoDaddy commercials aired during Super Bowl XLIII. The Most Watched Super Bowl commercial of 2009, according to TiVo, was her \"Enhancement\" ad for GoDaddy.com. Patrick has appeared in a total of fourteen Super Bowl commercials, more than any other celebrity.\n\nPatrick made her acting debut in the February 10, 2010, episode of \"\" where she played a race car driver suspected of murder. She also voiced herself in a cameo role in \"The Simpsons\" episode \"How Munched Is That Birdie in the Window?\". Patrick appears as a playable guest character in the video game \"Sonic & All-Stars Racing Transformed\", providing her own voice and appeared in the game's commercial. She also appeared in Archie Comics' \"Sonic Universe\" #45, which adapted some of the game storyline. \"Fox NASCAR\" hired Patrick on February 21, 2015, as a booth analyst for Xfinity Series races. She provided commentary for the race at Michigan. Patrick also voices the race car character Rally in Nickelodeon's \"Blaze and the Monster Machines\" 2016 animated series. In June 2017, she joined Fox's Cup driver-only broadcast of the Xfinity Series race at Pocono Raceway, working in the studio alongside Denny Hamlin. A documentary entitled \"Danica\" which chronicles Patrick's professional and personal life premiered on November 8 on Epix. Her second book, \"Pretty Intense\", was released on December 26. Patrick had a cameo role in Maroon 5's \"Girls Like You\" featuring Cardi B. On 18 July, she became the first woman to host the ESPY Awards. Patrick was an racing analyst during NBC's broadcast of the 2019 Indianapolis 500 in May that year. In August 2019, she launched a weekly podcast called \"Pretty Intense\" in which she discusses success and spirituality with guests.\n\nIMG talent agency and Excel Sports Management represent Patrick. She has appeared in advertising campaigns for AirTran Airways, Secret, Nationwide Insurance, Tissot, Chevrolet, Coca-Cola, Peak Antifreeze, William Rast, Hot Wheels, GoDaddy.com, Nature's Bakery and Lyft. Patrick promotes health-conscious lifestyles and partnered with Williams Sonoma to campaign for No Kid Hungry. She is the celebrity spokeswoman for DRIVE4COPD, an awareness campaign for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, from which her grandmother died. In 2014, she joined \"The Players' Tribune\" as a featured writer, having been immediately attracted to founder and former shortstop Derek Jeter's concept of allowing athletes to write and control their own content.\n\nPatrick owns her own brand of wine, called Somnium, which means \"dream\" in Latin. The Somnium Vineyard is located in the area of St Helena, California within the Howell Mountain AVA, covering an area of , at elevations from . Patrick owns her own athleisure collection, called \"Warrior by Danica Patrick\", that was created in partnership with G-III Apparel Group and named after the Native American mythology she had been exposed to in Arizona.\n\nPatrick is a globally recognizable racing driver, often identified by her first name. In a 2017 article for \"The Guardian\", Andrew Lawrence described Patrick as \"an anti-Mulan\" who infiltrated and thrived in a male environment while accentuating her womanhood. He also said she is \"an instrument of male and female fantasy, the sports pinup who grinds harder for feminism, day-to-day, than the great Billie Jean King ever could.\" Henry Hutton of the \"Independent Tribune\" noted that when Patrick entered IndyCar in 2005, she rapidly became a pop culture icon largely due to her gender and modelling, but her driver profile depreciated from car problems, racetrack accidents and uncompetitiveness. She is outspoken, and quick-tempered, but self-deprecating.\n\nShe has been a magazine cover model for \"FHM\", \"Sports Illustrated\", \"TV Guide\" and \"\" and ranked highly on beauty lists and in polls, about female athletes. \"People\" magazine named her one of the most beautiful people in the world in 2006. The following year, Patrick was voted the sexiest athlete in the Victoria's Secret \"What is Sexy\" list. She was voted No. 42 in 2006 and No. 85 in 2007 in \"FHM\"'s 100 sexiest women in the world. In an interview with \"Fox News\" in 2012, Patrick objected to being labeled a sex symbol: \"People don't know how to describe women in a pretty way. Do you call Blake Griffin a sex symbol because he was on the cover of \"Men’s Health\" with his shirt off? People just don't know what to call women who look attractive.\" She expressed a different view five years later, saying she felt \"awesome\" about being a sex symbol: \"The exposure that was generated because of being female and using my attributes — it works.\"\n\nPatrick has featured on sports power and popularity lists. \"Bloomberg Businessweek\" ranked her the 50th and 88th most powerful person in the world of sports in 2008 and 2010, respectively. \"Time\" magazine named her a candidate for the 100 most influential people in the world in 2009 and 2010. She has been highly ranked in the Davie-Brown Index for several years, and peaked at number eight among female athletes in 2010. Patrick was the Harris Poll's favorite female athlete in 2008; she placed second behind tennis player Serena Williams in 2007 and again from 2013 to 2015. Between 2007 and 2013, she appeared on \"Forbes\"' list of the 100 highest paid celebrities four times, ranking in the bottom quartile and was 93rd on the magazine's The World's 100 Most Powerful Women list in 2010. Her endorsement deals generated a Q Score—the industry's measure of celebrities' likability—peak of 29 in 2010.\n\nPatrick's strong fan base voted her the IndyCar Series Most Popular Driver from 2005 to 2010 and the NASCAR Nationwide Series Most Popular Driver in 2012. She was voted the Favorite Female Athlete at the Kids' Choice Award in 2008, 2012 and 2013. She also won the legend award at the 2018 Kids' Choice Sports. Increasing attendance at auto racing events and improved television ratings have been attributed to Patrick by scholars and the press. She has inspired many young girls' interest in motorsports, leading them to race competitively. Some have credited her with preventing the dissolution of the IndyCar Series, and strengthening support for NASCAR. Patrick has been called a trailblazer or pioneer for women in auto racing, and commentators agree her achievements have broken the gender barrier in an industry that is overwhelmingly male.\n\nPatrick has come under scrutiny from the media and fans throughout her career. She has been called a \"gimmick\" or a \"publicity stunt\" by some fans for lack of better racing results. Critics have compared her to former tennis player Anna Kournikova for her lack of on-track success and promotion of her looks, though the similarities have been questioned by others. Prior to her 2008 Indy Japan 300 triumph, Patrick was criticized by commentators and fans who claimed her ~ body weight constituted an unfair advantage. Indy Racing League president Brian Barnhart responded that her weight \"had a virtually minimal effect on the competition.\" In June 2013, former NASCAR driver Kyle Petty called Patrick a \"marketing machine\" and asserted that she was not a race car driver. In February 2014, during an appearance at the eighth annual Canadian Motorsports Expo, Kyle's father, Richard Petty, criticized her for not winning more races.\n\nIn 2005, Patrick married physical therapist Paul Edward Hospenthal, whom she met at his office in 2002 when she was recovering from a hip injury she sustained during a yoga session. They divorced in 2013.\n\nFrom November 2012 to December 2017, Patrick was in a relationship with fellow driver Ricky Stenhouse Jr.\n\nPatrick has been in a relationship with NFL quarterback Aaron Rodgers since February 2018.\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki> Season still in progress.\n\n Season still in progress\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1886355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1886355", "title": "Eudoxa", "text": "Eudoxa\n\nEudoxa is a Swedish think tank, formed in 2000. Eudoxa has a transhumanist, and liberal political profile, with a focus on promoting dynamism, emerging technologies, harm reduction policy and discussing the challenges of the environment and the future. It is independent from political parties and other political and religious interest groups.\n\nEudoxa organizes seminars and conferences about these subjects, produces reports for corporations and organizations and promotes public debate.\n\nIt has a staff consisting both of scientist and humanists, in order to bridge the rift between The Two Cultures on evaluating the effects of emerging technologies, and give a better analysis. Its intellectual inspiration derives much from the book The Future and Its Enemies by Virginia Postrel. \n\nEudoxa has discussed biotechnology, harm reduction, health care, nanotechnology, RFID, and intellectual property. \n\nEudoxa is the Swedish partner in the International Property Rights Index.\n\nThe think tank currently consists of: Waldemar Ingdahl, Alexander Sanchez, and Anders Sandberg.\n\nAccording to the \"2014 Global Go To Think Tank Index Report\" (Think Tanks and Civil Societies Program, University of Pennsylvania), Eudoxa is rated number 25 (of 45) in the \"Top Science and Technology Think Tanks\" of the world.\n\n"}
{"id": "1886356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1886356", "title": "M. M. Roberts Stadium", "text": "M. M. Roberts Stadium\n\nMM Roberts Stadium, also known as \"The Rock\", is an American football stadium located in Hattiesburg, Mississippi. It is the home of The University of Southern Mississippi Golden Eagles football team.\n\nThe stadium was originally opened on October 29, 1932 as \"Faulkner Field\", with a wooden grandstand which held 4,000 spectators at the time. It was named for local businessman L.E. Faulkner, who financed the materials and equipment for the stadium, which was built for free by local unemployed workers during the Great Depression. In 1938, permanent concrete stands which also housed dormitory space for student-athletes were built on the east side of the field, with the help of Southern Miss football players hauling the concrete. It was from this (hauling concrete blocks) that the stadium received the nickname \"The Rock\" (in reference to prison work crews—none of which were used to build the stadium).\n\nThe stadium was expanded again in 1950, when the 7,500-seat West Stadium Dormitory stands were built for $350,000. Later, 2,000 bleacher seats were added, as well as new lights (the stadium had lights as early as 1934) and a new scoreboard. By the end of this expansion, the stadium seated 15,000.\n\nOn September 5, 2015, the attendance record of 36,641 was set in the 2015 season opener against Mississippi State.\n\nIn 1974-76, the stadium was rebuilt at a total cost of $6.3 million, with two sets of double-decked grandstands constructed on either side (east and west stands), bringing seating capacity to 33,000. This forced the Golden Eagles to play their entire 1975 schedule away from Hattiesburg, with eight of 11 games in enemy stadiums. The \"home\" games were played in New Orleans (at the new Louisiana Superdome), Jackson and Biloxi. \n\nThe stadium was renamed for M. M. Roberts, an alumnus of then-Mississippi College and member of the Board of Trustees of State Institutions of Higher Learning (popularly called \"The College Board\"). He is credited for helping to build the school up to its current university status, the largest such school in Mississippi south of Jackson. (However, the playing surface is still known as Faulkner Field.) It was opened on September 25, 1976 with a loss at the hands of in-State rival Ole Miss.\n\nIn 1989, the current press box was added. Other improvements to the stadium include the Southern Miss Athletic Center, a field house and athletics training facility opened in 2002 in the north end zone, new lighting towers (for enhanced lighting of televised games), as well as the new Momentum Turf field added in 2004.\n\nThe playing field at Roberts Stadium underwent a name change in the 2004 summer when it was renamed Carlisle-Faulkner Field at M.M. Roberts Stadium in honor of entrepreneur, Southern Miss graduate and Golden Eagle supporter, Gene Carlisle, who provided outstanding support and contribution to the Athletics Department and the University - much of which went to the installation of a new playing surface - Momentum Turf by Sportexe.\n\nIn 2008, the university opened an addition to the stadium that encloses the south end zone, adding nearly 4,000 seats and 33 specialty suites. The expansion included luxury boxes as well as a new scoreboard in the North Endzone and premium seating and a club level on the east side of the stadium. The Pride of Mississippi Marching Band now sits in the new expansion in the south end zone.\n\n"}
{"id": "1886358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1886358", "title": "Folsom Field", "text": "Folsom Field\n\nFolsom Field is an outdoor football stadium in the western United States, located on the campus of the University of Colorado in Boulder. It is the home field of the Colorado Buffaloes of the Pac-12 Conference.\n\nOpened in 1924, the horseshoe-shaped stadium runs in the traditional north-south configuration, opening to the north. The CU athletic administration center, named after 1950s head coach Dal Ward, is located at the north end.\n\nThe playing field returned to natural grass in 1999 and sits at an elevation of , more than a mile above sea level. Folsom Field is the third highest stadium in major college football, behind only Wyoming and Air Force of the Mountain West Conference.\n\nGamble Field was the home of Colorado football for two decades, through 1924 mid-season. Opened as Colorado Stadium, Folsom Field has been the home of Colorado Buffaloes football since. Through the 2016 season, the Buffs have a home record of 308–169–14, a winning percentage of .\n\nColorado Stadium was renamed Folsom Field in 1944, following the death of coach Fred Folsom. He coached the Buffs from 1895 to 1902 and 1908 to 1915, compiling a 78–24–2 () overall record.\n\nIn 2008, Folsom Field became the first \"zero-waste\" stadium in the NCAA by instituting a rigorous recycling and composting program.\n\nWhen opened in 1924, the horseshoe-shaped stadium had a capacity of 26,000. A major expansion in 1956 raised the height of the stadium and increased its capacity to 45,000. In 1967, 6,000 more seats were added with the removal of the running track; the track and field team relocated to Potts Field on the East Campus.\n\nA sizable, six-level press box was added in 1968 to the top of the west side grandstand, directly in front of Balch Fieldhouse, the former home of the basketball team. Renovations continued in 1976 when the old, rickety wooden bleachers were replaced with aluminum ones, raising the capacity to 52,005.\n\nIn 2003, suites and club seating were added to the east side of the stadium, raising the capacity to 53,750. Since the 2003 renovation 137 seats with obstructed views have been removed lowering the seating capacity to 53,613.\n\nIn 2014, construction for a further expansion has started. This expansion includes a new indoor practice facility, a high performance sports center, as well as extra seating on the northeast corner of the stadium.\n\nFrom 1924 through 1970, the playing surface at Folsom Field was natural grass. In the summer of 1971, AstroTurf was installed and the first game played on the new surface was against Wyoming on September 18. The 1971 Buffs finished third in the AP Poll behind Nebraska and Oklahoma, for a sweep of the top three spots by the Big Eight Conference. The synthetic turf was replaced in 1978 and again in 1989, with \"Astroturf-8.\" After 28 years of AstroTurf, Folsom Field returned to natural grass in the spring of 1999. The project, which included bio-thermal heating, drainage, and a sub-air system, cost $1.2 million.\n\nThe Grateful Dead played at Folsom as part of their 15th anniversary June 7 & 8, 1980 and The Rolling Stones October 3 & 4, 1981.\nThe stadium played host to a concert, later released on DVD, by the Dave Matthews Band on July 11, 2001. More recently, in keeping with the decision to bring back live music to Folsom Field, the stadium hosted Dead & Co. for two-night stands during their 2016, 2017 and 2018 summer tours.\n\nThe south end zone was featured in the opening and closing credits of the late 1970s television show \"Mork and Mindy,\" which was set in Boulder. \n\nFolsom Field is also used as the finish line for the Bolder Boulder, a popular 10K run. \n\nThe first Promise Keepers stadium conference was held at Folsom in June 1992.\n\nThe largest crowd for a CU football game at Folsom Field was 54,972 in 2005, against in-state rival Colorado State on September 3, in which Colorado Buffaloes won thanks to a 47 yard field goal kicked by Mason Crosby with four seconds remaining . This early-season, non-conference rivalry game, the Rocky Mountain Showdown, is more often played in neutral Denver at Mile High Stadium and its successor Empower Field at Mile High.\n\nThe largest crowd ever at Folsom Field was in 1977 for a rock concert, one of the popular Colorado \"Sun Day\" concert series. The attendance on May 1 was an estimated 61,500 (exceeding the seating capacity by about 9,000) for a show featuring Fleetwood Mac, Bob Seger, Firefall, and John Sebastian.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1886359", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1886359", "title": "Kevin Maggs", "text": "Kevin Maggs\n\nKevin Michael Maggs (born 3 June 1974) is a former Irish rugby union centre. He is currently player/coach with Moseley. He previously played for Bristol, Bath, Ulster and Rotherham Titans. Started his adult rugby career in Bristol with local side Imperial.\n\nMaggs played for Ireland because Brian Ashton, who was Irish coach at time, came to Bristol to watch flanker David Corkery and was told by Ralph Knibbs (Bristol's player-manager), that Maggs had a grandfather from Limerick. He was then called up to the Irish development tour to New Zealand in 1997. He made his international debut for Ireland against New Zealand at Lansdowne Road on November 1997 and played at the 1999 and 2003 Rugby World Cup.\n\n\n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "1886360", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1886360", "title": "Grumman American AA-5", "text": "Grumman American AA-5\n\nThe Grumman American AA-5 series is a family of American all-metal, four-seat, light aircraft used for touring and training. The line includes the original American Aviation AA-5 Traveler, the Grumman American AA-5 Traveler, AA-5A Cheetah, and AA-5B Tiger, the Gulfstream American AA-5A Cheetah and AA-5B Tiger, the American General AG-5B Tiger, and the Tiger Aircraft AG-5B Tiger.\n\nFollowing American Aviation's success with the AA-1 Yankee Clipper two-seat light aircraft in 1969, the company decided to produce a four-seat aircraft. They started with a new \"clean-sheet\" design that was designated the American Aviation AA-2 Patriot. The AA-2 design did not meet its performance goals during test-flying and only one was ever built.\n\nStill needing a four-seat aircraft to fill its product line, the company simply enlarged the external and cabin dimensions of the AA-1 Yankee to create the four-seater. This decision capitalized on the marketplace identification of the Yankee and its derivative the AA-1A Trainer and also resulted in 2/3 parts commonality between the designs, saving development time and production costs.\n\nThe new four-place aircraft, named the American Aviation AA-5 Traveler, was powered by a Lycoming O-320-E2G engine of . It would carry four people at cruise speed and was certified under US FAR Part 23.\n\nProduction of the Traveler had just started in 1971 when American Aviation was sold to Grumman and became the Grumman American division. Grumman continued production of the Traveler. 834 Travelers had been produced when production of this model ceased in 1975.\n\nA redesign of the AA-5 was undertaken in 1974 and as a result the 1975 model Traveler featured an aerodynamic cleanup of the engine cowling and main landing gear fairings. The tail section remained unchanged. As a result of these changes the 1975 Traveler had a cruise speed of . The Traveler was superseded in production the following year by the further refined AA-5A Cheetah.\n\nGrumman's engineers felt that the AA-5 design had more speed potential than the original Traveler, even with its 1975 improvements, and so embarked on an aerodynamic cleanup and redesign. Changes were made to the engine cowling and baffling to reduce cooling drag, the exhaust system was redesigned, the main landing gear fairings were further improved, the ventral fin was eliminated, and the horizontal tail was enlarged to allow a larger center of gravity range. Fuel capacity was increased from the Traveler's 37 US gallons to 52 gallons, thus increasing its range.\n\nThe new variant was named the AA-5A Cheetah and was introduced as a 1976 model in late 1975. In keeping with its namesake it was six knots (seven mph) faster than the Traveler with the same Lycoming O-320-E2G powerplant. Because the Cheetah looked very much like the Traveler externally, Grumman's marketing department created a \"leaping cheetah\" emblem to differentiate it from the earlier AA-5.\n\nGrumman sold its light aircraft division to Gulfstream Aerospace in 1978 and the division was renamed Gulfstream American. Gulfstream continued production of the AA-5A until 1979. A total of 900 Cheetahs were produced.\n\nThe final variant of the AA-5 line was the AA-5B Tiger. The Tiger was designed by Grumman engineers and was first produced in late 1974 as the 1975 model.\n\nThe Tiger was the outcome of the same redesign work on the AA-5 Traveler that resulted in the Cheetah and it was originally little more than the same aircraft with a Lycoming O-360-A4K engine, resulting in a cruise speed. Gross weight was increased from the AA-5/AA-5A's to on the Tiger. Externally the Tiger looked much like the AA-5 Traveler and AA-5A Cheetah so once again Grumman's marketing department came up with a distinctive decal package to differentiate the design – this time a \"galloping tiger\".\n\nWhile the earlier AA-1s and AA-5s did not change much from year to year the AA-5B Tiger underwent almost continual improvement. As with the AA-5A, the AA-5B was continued in production by Gulfstream when they purchased Grumman's American division. Gulfstream ceased production of all piston-engined aircraft in 1979 and the highly successful Tiger design went out of production after 1323 aircraft had been delivered.\n\nFor eleven years the design was not produced and then in the late 1980s a new company was formed to produce the Tiger. American General Aviation Corporation carried out further design improvements including introducing a new split nose cowling (engine cover) that could be removed without removing the propeller, a new instrument panel, improved exterior lighting, a new fuel quantity indication system, a 28 volt electrical system replacing the older 14 volt system, a new-style throttle quadrant, and improvements to the heat and ventilation systems. Aerodynamic improvements raised the optimal altitude cruise speed from true airspeed to TAS. The redesigned aircraft was put into production under an amended type certificate as the American General AG-5B Tiger. The new company had considered producing AA-1s and AA-5A Cheetahs, but those plans were never fulfilled before it closed its doors in 1993. American General produced Tigers for model years 1990–93 and delivered 181 aircraft in that time.\n\nThe design has a strong following among pilots and aircraft owners and so, in 1999, a new company was formed to put the Tiger back into production. Tiger Aircraft started production of the AG-5B Tiger in 2001 at their plant in Martinsburg, West Virginia. Tiger Aircraft did not produce any other models of the AA-1 or AA-5 family, although they owned the type certificates for the complete line of aircraft. Between 2001 and 2006 Tiger Aircraft produced 51 AG-5Bs. By the middle of 2006 Tiger Aircraft was experiencing financial problems and production of AG-5Bs had been halted and production workers laid off. Tiger Aircraft filed for bankruptcy in January 2007.\n\nOn August 2, 2007 The Federal Bankruptcy Court approved the sale of Tiger Aircraft assets to True Flight Holdings LLC. True Flight has indicated its intention to produce parts and also return the AG-5B Tiger to production as soon as possible at a planned facility on a lot at the Valdosta, Georgia Airport, but had not produced any complete aircraft.\n\nIf True Flight Holdings does put the Tiger into production, they will be the sixth manufacturer to do so.\n\nAll told, 3,289 AA-5s and AG-5s were produced by the five manufacturers between 1971 and 2005.\n\nAll models of the AA-5 have four seats under a sliding canopy, which can be partly opened in flight for ventilation. Entry for all four occupants is from the wing root over the canopy sill. Compared to competitive aircraft of the same era the AA-5s are noted for their light and pleasant handling characteristics as well as high cruising speed for the installed power.\n\nAs derivatives of the original AA-1 Yankee, the AA-5 series share the same unique bonded aluminum wing and honeycomb fuselage that eliminates the need for rivets without sacrificing strength. The main landing gear is fibreglass with a spring-steel nose gear tube. There is no nosewheel steering as the nosewheel is free-castering through 180 degrees. Steering is by main wheel differential braking operated by using one's toes to push the tops of the rudder pedals.\n\nIn 2019 Garmin received a Supplemental Type Certificate for a full G3X Touch glass cockpit installation for the aircraft.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1886363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1886363", "title": "Bulldog Stadium", "text": "Bulldog Stadium\n\nBulldog Stadium, also known as Jim Sweeney Field at Bulldog Stadium, is an outdoor football stadium in the western United States, located on the campus of California State University, Fresno in Fresno, California. It is the home field of the Fresno State Bulldogs of the Mountain West Conference.\n\nBulldog Stadium opened in 1980 and now has a current seating capacity of 40,727, expanded from an original capacity of 30,000. It hosted the California Bowl from 1981 to 1991 and friendly soccer matches prior to the 1994 FIFA World Cup. The playing field was natural grass until 2011 when FieldTurf was installed; it is named for longtime head coach Jim Sweeney The field has a conventional north-south alignment and the street level elevation is approximately above sea level.\n\nPrior to 1980, Fresno State played at Ratcliffe Stadium at Fresno City College, about southwest.\n\nFor Fresno State football games, both end zones are designed in a red-and-white checkerboard pattern, similar to the University of Tennessee's orange-and-white at Neyland Stadium. Fresno State's Bulldog mascot is depicted at midfield in an enlarged style. The field was also notable for having numerical markers every five yards (similar to the field at Louisiana State's Tiger Stadium) rather than every ten yards, as is typical. The field went back to the conventional ten-yard markings in 2009.\n\nBulldog Stadium enjoys a reputation of having one of the premiere home football environments among universities outside of the so-called \"power conferences\". Tailgate parties in the adjoining parking lots and athletic fields are an enormously popular pastime for Bulldog supporters and the fans are notable for their enthusiastic support within the stadium's environment. For several decades, supporters of Fresno State football have been nicknamed \"The Red Wave\" as a tribute to their swell of support and their tendency to be clad entirely in red clothing for home contests. For most of Fresno State's history, Bulldog Stadium is at its loudest when Fresno State plays their traditional arch-rival, the San Jose State Spartans. However, in recent years, Fresno State's most bitterly contested games have been pitted against the Boise State Broncos, whose success in the Western Athletic Conference generally and against Fresno State in particular has contributed to a fierce and energetic modern rivalry.\n\nBulldog Stadium is constructed in a modern version of the sunken \"bowl\" style, with seats situated unusually close to the game action and at a steeper slope compared to bowled stadia of the early 20th century. This intimate atmosphere contributes to a louder, more intense gametime experience.\n\nThe athletic department is currently in the process of fundraising for stadium renovations to be concluded prior to the 2019 season which will include:\n\nFieldTurf was installed in July 2011 replacing the stadium's natural grass playing surface. The $1.2 million project was funded entirely through private donations.\n\nCurrently Bulldog Stadium ranks 110th on the List of American football stadiums by capacity.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1886366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1886366", "title": "John Bryson Chane", "text": "John Bryson Chane\n\nJohn Bryson Chane (born May 13, 1944) is a bishop of the Episcopal Church. The eighth diocesan bishop of Washington, he was consecrated at Washington National Cathedral on June 1, 2002, leading the Episcopal Diocese of Washington until he retired in November 2011. During this time, he also served between June 2003 and April 2005 as interim dean of Washington National Cathedral. In his role as Episcopal Bishop of Washington, Chane served as president and CEO of the Protestant Episcopal Cathedral Foundation, which oversees the operations of Washington National Cathedral and the three cathedral schools: St. Alban's School for Boys, the National Cathedral School for Girls, and Beauvoir, the National Cathedral Elementary School.\n\n\"Washingtonian Magazine\" named him as one of the 150 most influential leaders in the District of Columbia. The \"Sunday Telegraph\" in London called him one of the most prominent leaders in the Anglican Communion.\n\nA leader in global interfaith dialogue and study, Chane traveled to Iran on numerous occasions as the invited guest of former Iranian President Mohammad Khatami. In late 2011, he was part of a four-person delegation that traveled to Tehran, and was instrumental in freeing the American hikers held in Evin Prison. He is one of the few from the West who has ever met with the current Supreme Leader of the Islamic Republic of Iran, Ayatollah Ali Khameni.\n\nChane has participated as a presenter at conferences in Oslo and Tehran sponsored by the Oslo Center for Peace and Human Rights, the \"Club de Madrid\", and \"Le Dialogue des Civilizations\", focusing on religion, politics and terrorism, religion and politics and gender equality. He continues to work with the Brookings Institution in Washington, D.C., as a planner and presenter at the annual U.S. Islamic World Forum, held in Doha, Qatar.\n\nHe has spoken on numerous occasions at the Industrial College of The Armed Forces in Washington D.C., the U.S. Secretary of State's Open Forum and as the Anglican principal at the semi-annual Christian-Muslim Summit sponsored by Washington National Cathedral. A respected speaker and charismatic preacher, he has been invited on several occasions by the Chautauqua Institution of New York to serve as Preacher in Residence.\n\nChane has been the recipient of various awards, including D.C.'s Interfaith Bridge Builders Award, the George Washington University President's Medal, the Berea College Founder's Medal, Search for Common Ground's Award for Global Peace and Reconciliation, the Rumi Forum's Global Peace Award and the Yale Divinity School's Lux et Veritas Award. He was a contributing author to \"Iraq Uncensored\", an initiative of the bipartisan American Security Project,\n\nOn January 30, 2010, Chane announced his intention to retire as Episcopal Bishop of Washington, stepping down from that role in 2011. The ninth bishop, Mariann Edgar Budde, was consecrated and installed at Washington National Cathedral on November 12, 2011.\n\nA Boston native, Chane served as dean of St. Paul's Cathedral in San Diego and also served congregations in Southborough, Massachusetts, Erie, Pennsylvania and Montvale, New Jersey. He holds a bachelor's degree from Boston University and a Master of Divinity degree from Yale Divinity School. He has received honorary doctorates from Virginia Theological Seminary, Episcopal Divinity School and Berkeley Divinity School at Yale University.\n\nChane and his wife, Karen, have two sons, Chris and Ian, and three grandchildren, Madeline, Althea and Ashton. He served as team chaplain for Team USA Hockey during the 1980 Olympics. He plays the drums in a band called The Chane Gang.\n\nIn August 2003, Chane was among those who voted to confirm the election of Gene Robinson, the first openly gay priest in a partnered relationship to serve as a bishop of the Episcopal Church. Robinson was consecrated as Episcopal Bishop of New Hampshire in November of that year, and served in that position until 2013. The move, and related decisions concerning the ability of churches to sanction same-sex relationships, divided the Episcopal Church, with some opponents of these developments announcing their realignment with bishops outside the Episcopal Church USA.\n\nIn February 2006, Peter Akinola, at that time the Anglican primate of Nigeria, issued a communique on behalf of the Standing Committee of the Anglican Church of Nigeria, in which he stated: \"The Church commends the law-makers for their prompt reaction to outlaw same-sex relationships in Nigeria and calls for the bill to be passed since the idea expressed in the bill is the moral position of Nigerians regarding human sexuality.\" In addition to criminalizing same-sex marriage, the bill in question also proposed to criminalize \"registration of gay clubs, societies and organizations\" and \"publicity, procession and public show of same-sex amorous relationship through the electronic or print media physically, directly, indirectly or otherwise\", on penalty of up to five years imprisonment. The proposed legislation was formally challenged by the U.S. State Department as a possible breach of Nigeria's obligations under the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights.\n\nChane, writing in the \"Washington Post\", said:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1886367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1886367", "title": "American Aviation AA-2 Patriot", "text": "American Aviation AA-2 Patriot\n\nThe American Aviation AA-2 Patriot was a four-seat, all-metal aircraft that was developed in 1970-71 by American Aviation of Cleveland, Ohio. The design did not progress beyond the prototype stage.\n\nAfter the market success of the AA-1 Yankee Clipper American Aviation turned their attention to developing a four-seat aircraft. The American Aviation engineers started with a \"clean sheet of paper\" and designed a new aircraft. This aircraft was intended to be produced as the American Aviation AA-2 Patriot.\n\nThe resulting prototype bore very little family resemblance to the AA-1. The AA-2 was different from the AA-1 in that it had doors instead of the Yankee's trademark sliding canopy and an oleo strut in place of the Yankee's spring steel tube nose gear. The aircraft had provisions for retractable gear to be installed on a later version, although the prototype had fixed landing gear. The AA-2 was powered by a 180 hp (134 kW) Lycoming engine.\n\nThe prototype, registered \"N484AA\", was completed in 1970 and test flying was commenced early in that same year. Aircraft performance during the test flying process fell far short of the design goals so the project was abandoned and the manufacturer eventually disassembled the prototype.\n\nAmerican Aviation made the decision to develop a stretched version of the AA-1 Yankee Clipper instead of pursuing the AA-2. This aircraft eventually was produced as the AA-5 Traveler and was later developed into the AA-5A Cheetah and the AA-5B Tiger.\n\nThe prototype has been recovered by members of the American Yankee Association.\n\n"}
{"id": "1886370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1886370", "title": "Prix Jean Vigo", "text": "Prix Jean Vigo\n\nThe Prix Jean Vigo is an award in the Cinema of France given annually since 1951 to a French film director in homage to Jean Vigo. It was founded by French writer Claude Aveline. Since 1960, the award is given to a director of a feature film and to a director of a short film.\n\nThe award is usually given to a young director, for his or her independent spirit and stylistic originality.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe Spanish documentary film Punto de Vista International Documentary Film Festival 1 presents, for the first time in Spain, the Premio Jean Vigo al mejor director (\"Jean Vigo Prize to the best director\").\n\nThe new award aims to strengthen both the spirit which inspired the festival in the first place and its commitment to the work of Jean Vigo. The creation of this prize has been made possible thanks to the close ties between Punto de Vista and the family of the French filmmaker.\n\nPunto de Vista paid tribute to the director of \"Zero de Conduite\" on the 2005 centenary of his birth. Luce Vigo, film critic and daughter of Vigo and Elizabeth Lozinska, attended that year. The festival provided an opportunity to look back on Vigo’s entire filmography and also represented the first step in a relationship which has now fructified in the form of this award. The Festival took its name, Punto de Vista (Point of View), as a tribute to Vigo, the first director to refer, back in the 1930s, to a “documented point of view” as a distinctive sign of a form of filmmaking which commits the filmmaker.\n"}
{"id": "1886378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1886378", "title": "Atlantic Championship", "text": "Atlantic Championship\n\nThe Atlantic Championship is a formula race car series with races throughout North America. It has been called Champ Car Atlantics (after its former name), Toyota Atlantics (due to the series' previous history of using Toyota-powered engines), or just Atlantics or Formula Atlantic, although the latter two terms risk confusion with the Sports Car Club of America's amateur Formula Atlantics division.\n\nStarting in 2012, the series was revived with SCCA Pro Racing sanction by Formula Race Promotions, with the series last raced in 2009 under IMSA sanction. FRP switched to USAC sanctioning in 2017. However, in 2019 FRP regained control of the series with backing from SCCA Pro Racing.\n\nThe Atlantics series is a developmental open-wheel racing series in North America, also called a \"ladder series\". In 2005, a new factor was announced to solidify this reputation as the last series in which a driver will compete before moving to Champ Car, or the highest levels of sports car racing such as American Le Mans. A US$2 million prize was announced for the winner of the 2006 racing season and future seasons, with the restriction that it can only be used towards the cost of racing in the Champ Car World Series. Simon Pagenaud became champion in 2006 and claimed the first such prize. He promptly moved to Champ Car in 2007 to race for Walker Racing.\n\nThe series champion for 2007, Raphael Matos, also won the $2 million prize towards a Champ Car ride. However, he elected not to accept it as he felt that without other sponsorship, he would be driving for a non-competitive team. Matos instead accepted an offer from the Andretti Green Racing team in the developmental Firestone Indy Lights Series instead, where he was promised the chance to race in the Indy 500 and a future ride in the IndyCar Series. 2007 runner-up Franck Perera, who finished on the podium eight times during the season and won three races ultimately signed to race with Champ Car team Conquest Racing. When Champ Car was purchased by IndyCar prior to the 2008 season, Conquest joined IndyCar with Perera.\n\nAs of 2009, the series offers an unrestricted $1 million prize to the season champion, $500,000 to the runner-up, and $250,000 to the third-place finisher on the season. These season rewards are part of total of $3 million in total prize money, which also features $50,000 for each race win, and other bonuses such as a monetary pole position reward.\n\nStarting in 2006, the series has been run exclusively with Swift 016.a chassis powered by Mazda-Cosworth MZR 2300 cm³ (2.3 L) DOHC inline-4 engines producing 300 bhp (224 kW). The cars are capable of speeds in excess of 175 mph (280 km/h). The new formula has lowered the costs of running a full Atlantic season to around $500,000–$600,000. This reduction in costs, plus the addition of the aforementioned $2 million prize, had an immediate effect on increasing the number of competitors in the series (car count), which had dwindled over the previous few seasons. For example, the 2007 season featured 30 drivers.\n\nAlthough the series had been run on Yokohama tires since 1991, the Japanese company elected to end its relationship with the series after the 2006 series, at which point it was replaced by Cooper Tire and became title sponsor for the series.\n\n\nThe history of Formula Atlantic begins with the SCCA Formula B class, created in 1965 for single-seat formula cars with engines not exceeding 1600 cm³ in capacity. Prior to Formula Atlantic, professional Formula B races were held in the United States from 1965 to 1972, first with the SCCA's poorly supported Formula A, then as part of the SCCA Formula Continental Championship in 1968 (when they were largely overshadowed by the V8-powered Formula 5000 cars) and then as an independent series from 1969 to 1972.\n\nFormula Atlantic as a class evolved in the United Kingdom in 1971 from the US Formula B rules, with 1600 cm³ production-based twin-cam engines (initially dominated by Lotus-Ford Twin Cam-based dry-sump Cosworth Mk.XIII, then by Cosworth BDD when the class became Atlantic in the United States, however other engines like Alfa Romeo and BMW were also eligible). Conceived by John Webb of Brands Hatch (who would later also develop the Sports 2000 class) as a category for national competitors with the performance near a Formula Two car but running costs at or below that of a contemporary Formula Three car. A single (Yellow Pages championship ran in 1971–72, with a rival BP backed series appearing in 1973. 1974 saw the BP series changing sponsor to John Player and the Yellow Pages series becoming backed by John Webb's MCD organisation and Southern Organs. In practice most top drivers competed in both series and there were no date clashes. Only one series ran in 1975-76, in the final year taking the title \"'Indylantic\" and adopting Indianapolis-style single-car qualifying. But the formula was under threat from Formula 3 and no series ran in 1977–78. The series returned in 1979 with backing (for one season only) from Hitachi and continued to 1983, with diminishing grids and few new cars appearing.\n\nAs a result of its similarity to Formula 2 and Formula 3 in terms of chassis regulations, Formula Atlantic typically used chassis closely related to these cars — with performance somewhere in between the two — so most of the manufacturers were familiar from those classes, particularly the likes of Brabham, Lotus, March, Chevron early on, with Ralt and then Reynard later. US manufacturer Swift came to displace the British imports and dominate in North America. Several smaller marques also appeared.\n\nThe first professional races run under Formula Atlantic rules in North America were conducted in 1974 by the Canadian Automobile Sport Clubs (CASC) in Canada (now ASN Canada), drawing much attention and large fields due to its national CTV television coverage. IMSA in the United States took advantage of the large number of teams and organized its own series in 1976.\n\nDuring these years, the series attracted guest drivers from Europe, including Formula One, particularly at the Trois-Rivières street race in Quebec, Canada. Guest drivers included James Hunt, Jean-Pierre Jarier, Riccardo Patrese, Patrick Depailler, Jacques Laffite, Didier Pironi and Vittorio Brambilla.\n\nIn 1977, the SCCA sanctioned the US events and in 1978 the CASC and SCCA series merged and conducted the series jointly until 1983, when it ran as the \"Formula Mondial North American Cup\"; Michael Andretti won the championship. The series could not sustain the success of earlier seasons and was cancelled for 1984.\n\nIn its place a \"Pacific\" series was conducted exclusively on the US West Coast in 1985. This rebirth expanded to an East Coast \"Atlantic\" series the following year and the two ran concurrently through 1990. From 1990 to 2005, the series was sponsored by Toyota and the cars were powered by 1600 cc Toyota 4A-GE engines available in kit form from Toyota Racing Development. With the support of Toyota, the two US series were reunited into a single North American championship and have remained so to this date.\n\nThe same rules were adopted as Formula Pacific (not to be confused with the US Formula Atlantic Pacific Championship) and races were run in Australia and New Zealand, where Formula Pacific became the top class of racing. For a few years the prestigious Macau Grand Prix was run to Formula Pacific rules before becoming a Formula Three race. South Africa also adopted Formula Atlantic rules, but later mandated that the cars were fitted with Mazda Wankel engines.\n\nIn recognition of the global acceptance of the formula it was briefly renamed Formula Mondial in 1983, but this series failed to materialize.\n\nAmong Atlantic drivers in races through 1982 were Keke Rosberg, Gilles villeneuve, Michael Andretti, Bobby Rahal, Howdy Holmes, Tom Gloy, Dave McMikllan, Kevin Cogn, Jacques Villeneuve Sr, Chris Kneifel and Roberto Moreno.\n\nIn 1983, Jon Norman, Gudrun and Rick Shea and Tim Fortner, formed West Coast Atlantic Racing - WCAR - and ran a series of professional races for Atlantic cars on the U.S. west coast, with Al Brizzard as Chief Steward. WCAR had originally sprung up with the FIA's \"Formula Mondial\" championship and when that folded prematurely, WCAR became Atlantic racing in the United States.\n\nOn the east coast, Vicki O'Connor decided to establish a similar series. Thus, East Coast Atlantic Racing - ECAR - was born. Simultaneously, Vicki established Pro-Motion Agency Ltd as the organizing and managing body to run the series and had SCCA as the sanctioning body.\n\nThe first ECAR race was at Summit Point Motorsports Park in West Virginia on 07 Jul 1985. Incidentally, this race and all subsequent Atlantic series races except those on ovals, used a series signature standing start following a group warm-up lap.\n\nBoth WCAR and ECAR ran races for a while until the two series were merged under Vicki's management in 1991.\n\nVicki brought to the management of the Atlantic series the many years of experience she'd accumulated while working for Carl Haas in his Lola, Hewland and other racing equipment import business, and more directly, her involvement in Carl's race team management in the CanAm and other series.\n\nVicki's biography as a member of the Road Racing Drivers Club reads in part \"… the Toyota Atlantic Series which developed into the most successful and longest-running open-wheel driver development series in North America\".\n\nThe Toyota Atlantic Series ran on road courses, ovals, street courses and airports in the United States, Canada and Mexico.\n\nThe success of the series brought it the sponsorship and engine development of Toyota Motor Corporation in 1989 under its North American competition division, Toyota Racing Development, led by Les Unger.\n\nLater races were sanctioned by CART (Championship Auto Racing Teams) when CART bought Pro-Motion Agency Ltd. When Champ Car succeeded CART in 2004, the new owners also bought Pro-Motion Agency, and Toyota Atlantic continued under their sanctioning. The series ended with the bankruptcy of Champ Car in 2007.\n\nThe series raised to prominence a great number of drivers including Michael Andretti, Jacques Vlleneuve, Scott Goodyear, Joey Hand, Buddy Rice, Sam Hornish, Ryan Hunter-Reay, Brian Till, Dan Wheldon, Alex Tagliani, Calvin Fish, Danica Patrick, Simon Pagenaud, A. J. Allmendinger, Graham Rahal and Katherine Legge.\n\nThe latest in a long line of television celebrities to enter this series—starting with Dick Smothers at the very first race in 1968—was Frankie Muniz of the Fox Network comedy Malcolm in the Middle, making his debut in 2007. Sharing the dream of many American open wheel racers, Muniz stated his intention to use Champ Car Atlantics as a direct path to racing in the Champ Car World Series.\n\nA few women have chosen to participate in Atlantic racing under the Toyota Atlantic or Atlantic Championship powered by Mazda banner.\n\nAs mentioned in the list of former drivers, Danica Patrick was an Atlantic competitor in 2003 and 2004. She was the first woman to score a pole position in the series and the first woman to finish on the podium. She also led the 2004 season briefly before finishing third overall in season results, but did not score a win in two years of Atlantic competition.\n\nKatherine Legge also competed in Atlantic for a season. In 2005, she became the first woman in history to win a professional open wheel race in North America, at Long Beach, CA. She then amassed two more wins in the same season and finished third overall in season results.\n\nChristal Waddy was the first African American female Motorsport Director in the United States for a professional motorsport team. In 2006 Christal campaigned a two car entry for car owner Bob Gelles of Gelles Racing sponsored by Western Union. Driver Robbie Pecorari won a race in Toronto, Canada and finished eleventh in points. Stephen Simpson competed in three races with his best finish of fifth place in Monterrey, Mexico. Christal was also the owner of sponsor Roadblock Protective Systems and Team Manager for BMW of Sterling Motorsports.\n\nSimona de Silvestro was an Atlantic Championship contender who led a large portion 2009 Atlantic Championship season, ultimately finishing third. In three years in the series, she has bettered Katherine Legge's career mark of three wins, with one in 2008 and four in 2009.\n\nOn October 31, 2008, an official announcement was made that the Atlantic Championship series had been purchased by Ben Johnston, an Atlanta area businessman and one-time Atlantic racer. At the same time, Mazda and Cooper Tires also announced a continuing commitment to the series. Then, in 2009, Mazda recommitted its support to the Atlantic Championship by extending an engine contract that covers the series through the year 2011.\n\nAtlantic Championship races have previously been shown on multiple networks, including SPEED. For 2009, a new high definition television package was announced on HDNet, which features live coverage of certain events and replays of others.\n\nWeb video of events has also historically been available on the series website, and the series also has its own official YouTube channel under the username \"AtlanticRacingSeries.\"\n\nIn early 2010, Atlantic Championship personnel publicized several features intended to attract new drivers and retain existing racers and teams. One was to brand the series as the \"Road to F1\", announcing that \"at least one current European F1 team manager\" would be in attendance to monitor a test for interested racers. Another was to announce prize money that would be paid directly to drivers, rather than to teams. Another press release listed teams that were committed to the series.\n\nDespite these efforts, on March 3, 2010 series officials announced that the 2010 season had been put on hold. Robert Davis of Mazda North American Operations said: \"All of us at Mazda are disappointed that the Atlantic Championship will be on hiatus this year.\" Series president Ben Johnston stated: \"The Atlantic Championship office will be working during the down time in order to deliver an unparalleled racing offering when economic conditions allow.\"\n\nOn December 29, 2011, Mike Rand, Bob Wright and Al Guibord Jr. of Formula Race Promotions, which operates the F1600 and F2000 Championship Series sanctioned by the Sports Car Club of America's Pro Racing Division, announced the Atlantic Championship would be revived for the 2012 season with a schedule that will be held during three of their F1600 and F2000 series weekends - Road Atlanta (May 10–12), New Jersey Motorsports Park (June 28-July 1) and Summit Point Raceway (August 24–26). SCCA engine and chassis rules will apply and the cars will race exclusively on Hoosier tires.\n\nOn December 21, 2012, it was announced that the 2013 schedule had been suspended. On October 1, 2013, it was announced that the series would return in 2014 with a twelve race, six weekend race calendar.\n\nFor the 2017 Atlantic Championship, sanctioning transitioned from the SCCA to the United States Auto Club but Formula Race Promotions continued in their role as promoter.\n\nIn 2018, the series will allow the former Star Mazda cars to compete.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1886383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1886383", "title": "Lavina Fielding Anderson", "text": "Lavina Fielding Anderson\n\nLavina Fielding Anderson (born 13 April 1944 in Shelley, Idaho) is a Latter-day Saint scholar, writer, editor, and feminist. Anderson holds a Ph.D. in English from the University of Washington. Her editing credits include \"Sisters in Spirit: Mormon Women in Historical and Cultural Perspective\" (1987) and \"Tending the Garden: Essays on Mormon Literature\" (1996), as well as the \"Ensign\", \"\", \"Journal of Mormon History\", \"Mormon Women's Forum Quarterly,\" and \"Case Reports of the Mormon Alliance.\" In 2001, Anderson published a critical edition of Lucy Mack Smith's memoir: \"Lucy's Book: A Critical Edition of Lucy Mack Smith's family memoir\" (Salt Lake City: Signature Books, 2001).\n\nAnderson is one of the original trustees of the Mormon Alliance, founded in 1992 to document allegations of spiritual and ecclesiastical abuse in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church). In 1993, Anderson published a chronology documenting cases of what she regarded as spiritual abuse by LDS Church leaders during the 1970s, 1980s, and early 1990s. This article became grounds for her excommunication on charges of apostasy in September 1993, as one of the September Six. Anderson remains as active in the LDS Church as her excommunicant status allows; in 1996, she was described by Levi S. Peterson as exemplary of an emerging \"church in exile\" composed of faithful excommunicants.\n\nShe was married to Paul L. Anderson from 1977 until his death in 2018.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1886384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1886384", "title": "Joe Aillet Stadium", "text": "Joe Aillet Stadium\n\nJoe Aillet Stadium (formerly Louisiana Tech Stadium) is a college football stadium in Ruston, Louisiana and the home field of the Louisiana Tech University Bulldogs football team, which competes in Conference USA. The football stadium replaced the original Tech Stadium where the school's football program played its home games on campus until 1967.\n\nOriginally called Louisiana Tech Stadium, Joe Aillet Stadium opened in 1968 and was renamed for retired Louisiana Tech head football coach and athletic director Joe Aillet in 1972.\n\nThe stadium was built in 1968 with an original capacity of 23,318 as a replacement for the original \"Tech Stadium\" on the university's campus. The new football stadium was constructed on the northwest portion of the campus as part of a new athletic complex which included a 3,000-seat baseball stadium now known as J. C. Love Field at Pat Patterson Park, 10 lighted tennis courts, and a track and field complex now known as the Jim Mize Track and Field Complex.\n\nThe new stadium, known as Tech Stadium or Louisiana Tech Stadium at the time, hosted its first Louisiana Tech home football game on September 28, 1968 when quarterback Terry Bradshaw led the Bulldogs to a 35–7 victory over the East Carolina University Pirates.\n\nAfter four seasons as Tech Stadium, the stadium was renamed Joe Aillet Stadium prior to the 1972 season in honor of Joe Aillet, the longtime head football coach and athletic director of Louisiana Tech who died on December 28, 1971. On November 11, 1972, the official dedication ceremonies of the newly renamed Joe Aillet Stadium were held during a home football game between Tech and Eastern Michigan.\n\nThe 1997 season saw the largest crowd in school history of 28,714 for a 17–16 victory by the Bulldogs over the Northeast Louisiana Indians.\n\nFuture professional quarterback Tim Rattay was involved in the first-ever matchup of future pro quarterbacks at the stadium, facing off against UCF's Daunte Culpepper in 1998.\n\nThe first nationally televised game at the stadium came in 2002 against the Fresno State Bulldogs.\n\nIn an October 2004 rematch, the team achieved an upset victory by defeating the 17th-ranked Bulldogs.\n\nIn 2008, the team defeated the Mississippi State University Bulldogs 22–14 in its season opener. It was the first-ever visit by a school from a BCS conference to Joe Aillet Stadium.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nDavison Athletics Complex is located behind the south end zone of Joe Aillet Stadium. The three-story, facility features a weight room, locker room, players lounge, auditorium, coaches offices, position meeting rooms and the club level. The $22 million facility opened on September 4, 2015. The project was led by Ruston-based contractor Lincoln Builders.\n\nThe Charles Wyly Athletic Center is located at the southwest side of Joe Aillet Stadium adjacent to the Davison Athletics Complex and the field house. Construction of the Wyly Athletic Center began in 2000, and the facility opened in June 2001. The facility houses the Dr. William Bundrick Sports Medicine Center, Dr. Guthrie Jarrell Conference Room, Louisiana Tech football museum, coaches offices, and team meeting rooms. The Bundrick Sports Medicine Center includes a Swimex therapeutic pool, cardiovascular equipment, physician's examination room, and staff offices. The museum was designed by Richard Smith of Murphy and Orr Exhibits and features Terry Bradshaw memorabilia, plaques for each Tech All-American, displays honoring Tech's top offensive and defensive players, a 100-year timeline of Bulldog football, a lighted wall collage of La. Tech legends, and other exhibits. The $2.5 million facility was privately funded by a $1 million gift from businessman Charles Wyly and contributions from physicians Dr. William Bundrick and Dr. Guthrie Jarrell.\n\nDawgzilla is the name of the HD LED video display board and sound system located behind the north end zone of Joe Aillet Stadium. The video board was designed, manufactured, and installed by Daktronics during the summer of 2009. The HD-X video display measures high by wide with a pixel pitch. Two ribbon boards placed directly above and below the main video display each measure high by wide with pixel pitches. The total video display area measures , which made Dawgzilla the largest video board in the Western Athletic Conference after its construction in 2009. Also installed atop the video display is a custom Sportsound sound system. The video board is mounted on a brick foundation constructed by Lincoln Builders and is flanked by artistic metal displays. The Dawgzilla project cost $2 million and was financed through a partnership with Learfield Sports and Community Trust Bank.\n\nIn 1985 Louisiana Tech hosted the New Orleans Saints training camp.\n\nThe Louisiana Tech Lady Techster soccer team use Joe Aillet Stadium as its home facility since the program's inception in 2004. The first Lady Techster soccer game in the stadium was on August 28, 2005, a 2–0 win over the Mississippi Valley State Delta Devils. Tech soccer moved into the stadium beginning with the 2006 season, and has an overall record of 9–9–3 through the 2007 season in games played at the stadium. In 2009, the Lady Techsters soccer team moved to their new home field located across the street from the stadium.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1886390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1886390", "title": "Bohemia Interactive", "text": "Bohemia Interactive\n\nBohemia Interactive a.s. is a Czech video game developer and publisher based in Prague. The company focuses on creating military simulation games such as \"\" and the \"ARMA\" series. It is also known for having worked on a game conversion of the \"DayZ\" mod created for \"ARMA 2\".\n\nFounded by Marek Španěl in May 1999, the studio released its first game in 2001, a military shooter titled \"\", which received critical acclaim and brought recognition for the studio. Following \"Operation Flashpoint\" was a series of downturns, such as porting the game to Xbox, which led to financial losses and the development of a sequel later abandoned by the publisher Codemasters. The studio fell into financial troubles until the United States Marine Corps employed the studio to create simulation games to train soldiers. A new division called Bohemia Interactive Simulations was created, and later spun off and became a standalone business entity. Following Codemasters' decision of not supporting the studio, Bohemia Interactive decided to develop a spiritual successor to \"Cold War Crisis\" titled \"\". It was both a critical and financial success, spawning a number of sequels. Smaller projects such as \"Take On Helicopters\" were also released.\n\nIn 2012, Dean Hall produced \"DayZ\" a mod for \"ARMA 2\", that prompted the studio to develop a standalone game. The same year saw the arrest of two employees of Bohemia, who were charged with espionage by Greece and jailed for 129 days. This event had significantly lowered team morale and forced the team to rename \"ARMA 3\"s setting to a fictional one. The company is working on several new projects, including making a survival game named \"Vigor\", preparing \"DayZ\" for an eventual full release and developing \"Ylands\", a sandbox game which was part of Bohemia Incubator, a platform for Bohemia Interactive to release small, experimental projects.\n\nBohemia Interactive founder Marek Španěl aspired to become a game developer in the 1980s, after his brother was convinced to buy a Texas Instruments TI-99/4A computer. Španěl first worked as a salesman for a game distribution company and made a 3D hovercraft simulator \"\" for Atari Falcon in 1995, which sold 400 copies only. He, along with his brother, Ondřej Španěl, and business partner Slavomír Pavlíček, decided to develop a game in 1997, using the money given by his former employers. They formally founded Bohemia Interactive in May 1999.\n\nThe team initially wanted to develop a shooter named \"Rio Grande\", which was described by Španěl as \"a 3D clone of \"River Raid\"\". However, the team did not see the potential of the project and shifted their focus to make an open world game. It then became \"Poseidon\", which was a first-person shooter with a heavy focus on realism. At that time, the team expanded significantly, from having only one full-time programmer, to having 12 full-time employees by the end of the game's development. According to Španěl, the entire development team was very enthusiastic about the game and was focused on creating a game that they \"wanted to play\", thus opting not to study the works of another development team. \"Poseidon\" suffered from an extended development cycle of over three years, causing some of its technologies to become outdated. Original publisher Interactive Magic was sold in 1999 and another publisher which signed the project later wanted to abandon it. The frequent changes of publishers caused uncertainties regarding the game's funding. Despite these development issues, \"Poseidon\" was successfully released in June 2001 under the official title \"\" by Codemasters to critical acclaim. It was shipped without any game-breaking bugs, and it became an international success, selling more than 500,000 copies in its first three months of release, as well as reaching a top position in retail sales chart across the world including US, UK, Germany and Australia. The team was satisfied with the game's release, with Španěl describing it as a dream coming true. Bohemia Interactive won Best Debut at the Game Developers Choice Awards, defeating strong opponents including Remedy Entertainment (\"Max Payne\").\n\nFollowing the release of \"Operation Flashpoint: Cold War Crisis\", the team intended to continue updating the game with post-release content, develop a port for the Xbox console, and create a sequel. Projected to take only nine months to develop, the Xbox version (known as \"\") was released in 2005, four years after the game's initial release. The reason for the long development cycle stemmed from the team's unfamiliarity with the console's structure. With the release of a new generation of hardware including a new Xbox console, \"Elite\"s release did not gain its audience's attention. Sales were lackluster and the development suffered a huge financial loss. In 2005, the company also founded the Independent Developers Association (IDEA Games) with Black Element Software and Altar Games. The organization aimed at supporting other independent game development studios with services including marketing support and negotiation with publishers. Bohemia went on to acquire Black Element Software, Altar Games, and Centauri Production (a fourth IDEA Games member) in September 2010. Bohemia also acquired Slovak studio Cauldron in March 2014, with that studio's 25 staff members integrated into a new entity known as Bohemia Interactive Slovakia.\n\nThe team started developing a sequel to \"Operation Flashpoint\", codenamed \"Game 2\", after they cancelled their open world Western-themed project, which was described as \"\"Flashpoint\" in Western\" by Španěl. The team had lots of ambition for \"Game 2\" and hoped that it would become a perfect game, thus the team began spending an excessive amount of time on small details, from doing 3D scanning of real-life weapons to modelling the player character's eyeball. However, in doing so some basics were neglected by the team, and many goals remained unattained due to the team's skill and technology status. As a result, the team constantly missed the deadlines set by publisher Codemasters. Codemasters was dissatisfied with the team's work and began looking for outside help. Bohemia disagreed with the search for outside assistance, and the two studios decided to part way with each other. With Codemasters no longer supporting the studio financially, Bohemia entered a series of financial troubles. In addition, Codemasters retained the rights to \"Operation Flashpoint\" preventing Bohemia from using the title in the future.\n\nIn the early 2000s, the US Army began using a mod of the first \"Operation Flashpoint\", named \"DARWARS Ambush!\", to train soldiers. In financial distress, Bohemia capitalized on its use and made a small sum of money, saving the company from falling into immediate bankruptcy. Bohemia also set up a new division called Bohemia Interactive Simulations, specializing in creating military simulation games with its \"Virtual Battle Space\" titles for armies around the world to use. Meanwhile, the main studio, realizing that they should release a game as soon as possible, decided to rework on \"Elite\" engine and make a spiritual successor to \"Cold War Crisis\" called \"Armored Assault\", later renamed \"\". According to Španěl, the team hated the title. Bohemia decided to self-publish the game, and launched in an early access form. The game received high critical praise and great sales, sufficient to save the company.\n\nThe development of a sequel to \"ARMA\" commenced afterward. The team decided to reuse some of its assets of \"Game 2\" for \"ARMA 2\", and did not hold unrealistic ambitions for the game. A Xbox 360 version was planned but was later scrapped after the team thought that its power was inferior to that of personal computers. During this period, Codemasters announced \"\", a game falling into competition with Bohemia's own \"ARMA\" titles, as it was marketed as the true successor to \"Cold War Crisis\". Španěl was not happy with how \"Dragon Rising\" is being marketed as a return to the \"Operation Flashpoint\" series despite being created without the involvement of Bohemia. The team became anxious, but found relief after viewing gameplay footage \"Dragon Rising\", which they considered to be subpar and \"[did] not come even close to what they promised\". \"ARMA 2\" was released in mid-2009 to high critical praise and high sales. The development team soon began work on an expansion titled \"\", though Codemasters took legal actions to force Bohemia to change its name due to its similarity with \"Operation Flashpoint\". In early 2010s, the company continued to develop expansions for \"ARMA 2\", and released smaller titles such as \"Take On Helicopters\".\n\nFollowing the release of \"Operation Arrowhead\", the company started development of a new \"ARMA\" game, this time set in the future. The game was titled \"ARMA Futura\", in which players fight aliens, and its direction once shifting to role-playing. All of these futuristic elements were later scrapped, and were remade into a more realistic setting. The title eventually became \"ARMA 3\". The Greek media reported in 2012 that two Czechs were arrested on the Greek island Lemnos, the setting for \"ARMA 3\" after being charged with espionage. This was later confirmed to be Martin Pezlar and Ivan Buchta, both of them employees at Bohemia Interactive. The main reason for their charge is that they took photos of military installations, which under Greek law threatened their national security. Charges were refuted, and both of them insisted that they were traveling the island for entertainment only. If convicted, the duo faced a 20-year sentence. This soon became a diplomatic concern, with Czech President Václav Klaus urging the Greek President to solve this issue with \"special attention\". Bohemia also made efforts by motivating its \"ARMA\" communities to petition to pressure Greece for the pair's release. During this period of time, team morale dropped. \"\" was released by the studio, but according to Španěl, \"nobody at the studio really cared\" because their friends were stranded in a foreign jail. Regardless, Pezlar and Buchta were held in prison for 129 days until the Greek government allowed them to be released on bail. After this incident, the team decided to rename \"ARMA 3\"s setting from Lemnos to a fictional island called \"Altis\". \"Arma 3\" was eventually released in August 2013 to positive critical reviews. Two mobile \"ARMA\" games, \"ARMA Tactics\" and \"ARMA Mobile Ops\", were released in 2013 and 2016 respectively. In January 2013 the investment company Riverside Co. bought Bohemia Interactive Simulations. While both companies share the engine technology due to the shared past they are now completely separate entities.\n\nIn 2012, Dean Hall, an employee at Bohemia working on \"ARMA 3\", released a massively popular mod for \"ARMA 2\" named \"DayZ\", which includes zombies as the game's main enemies. Its popularity led to a resurgence in \"ARMA 2\"s sales, with registered players count being raised from 500,000 to one million. Impressed with the success of \"DayZ\", Bohemia appointed Hall to fully capitalize on it by leading the development of a standalone \"DayZ\" video game, which ensured that he would not be limited by the restraints of \"ARMA 2\". While the main goal is to transit the mod into an entirely new game, the team also intended to add more content such as base-building and improved crafting. Hall eventually left Bohemia in 2014, and the game remained in early access more than five years after its release in December 2013 with a final alpha release in December 2018.\n\nIn November 2016, the company announced Bohemia Incubator, a platform for the development of experimental games. According to Bohemia Interactive, the incubator aimed at testing designs and concepts and getting the community involved in game development, as well as being the guidance of Bohemia's other technologies including its Enfusion engine and supporting services. Two titles were announced as part of the incubator. This includes \"Ylands\", a sandbox game, and \"Argo\", a free-to-play shooter without microtransactions released in June 2017. The company is also working on \"Vigor\", a survival game powered by Unreal Engine for the Xbox One.\n\nBohemia Interactive prides themselves on open communication with players. The company laid out road maps in an effort to offer details on some of their post-release content, such as in the case of \"ARMA 3\" and \"DayZ\". The company also sometimes let players to help out with game design process. It invited players to the Czech studio to help with the design of the first \"Operation Flashpoint\", and released several titles via early access, a way in which early build of a game is released for the community to test and play. Many of Bohemia Interactive games are moddable, a focus since the release of the \"ARMA: Armed Assault\". The company awarded players who create user-generated content with their games in 2009 during the BIS Community Awards and announced a modding competition called \"Make ARMA Not War\", in which modders must create mods that shift \"ARMA\" focus from war into anything else. Bohemia Interactive also took a stance against pirating with their DEGRADE technology, which would automatically create technical issues to pirated copies. For instance, in \"Take On Helicopters\", pirated copies' visuals would be extremely blurry, whereas copies bought legitimately would not suffer from the same issue. The team also bought a T-72 tank in order to express gratitude, stating: \"A massive tanks goes out to everyone who has supported the studio and its games throughout the past 16 years\".\n\nAccording to Joris-Jan van ‘t Land, the project lead for \"ARMA 3\", Bohemia Interactive gives their employees a lot of freedom and autonomy. Employees can brainstorm ideas and exchange with each other, and some of these ideas may be implemented as official releases, shown through one of \"ARMA 3\"s downloadable contents, \"Zeus\". Bohemia Interactive also had a close relationship with International Committee of the Red Cross, in which they partnered together for a special award named Health Care in Danger Special Award at the Make Arma Not War competition, and Bohemia also promised to follow some of Red Cross' suggestions on how video games should handle war crimes.\n\nBohemia Interactive specialized in making simulation games with a focus on realism. They had created the military simulation game \"\" as their debut game, and followed it with an expansion called \"\". While Codemasters developed two \"Operation Flashpoint\" sequels, \"\" and \"\", the series was put on hiatus when Codemasters announced their plans to refocus on racing games. Meanwhile, Bohemia followed up their first game, \"Cold War Crisis\" with a spiritual successor called \"\", which was followed up by two sequels, \"ARMA 2\" and \"ARMA 3\", both of which have been critically acclaimed. The developer also had another simulation franchise called \"Take On\", which includes \"Take On Helicopters\", which allows players to play as a helicopter pilot, and \"Take On Mars\", in which players explore Mars. However, both titles are smaller in scope when compared with the \"ARMA\" franchise.\n"}
{"id": "1886391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1886391", "title": "Virginia Beach Sportsplex", "text": "Virginia Beach Sportsplex\n\nThe Virginia Beach Sportsplex is a sports complex in Virginia Beach, Virginia. The name is most commonly attached to the main stadium within the complex, which opened in 1999. It has a permanent seating capacity of 6,000, on two decks of seating, though it can be expanded upwards to 17,000 for American football games. It was the first soccer-specific stadium built from the ground up in the United States. The Sportsplex is located across the street from the Princess Anne Athletic Complex and near the Veterans United Home Loans Amphitheater.\n\nThe main stadium was the home field of the Hampton Roads Piranhas, a women's team in the W-League, which became the \"de facto\" top women's league in the country after the demise of the Women's United Soccer Association. It was originally their home from 1999 to 2002. In 2003 the Piranhas moved their home games to a smaller stadium on the campus of Virginia Wesleyan College near the city's border with Norfolk. It was also the home field for the Virginia Beach Mariners (USL-I) and the Virginia Beach Submariners (PDL). In 2007, the franchise was terminated, and as a result the Piranhas acquired the Submariners and renamed them as the Piranhas, a reflection of their women's team. Both teams played at the Virginia Beach Sportsplex for the 2010 season of the W-League and the Premier Development League. The stadium is now the home office for the Virginia Rush Organization as well as the home venue for its U16 and U18 U.S. Soccer Development Academy teams. It is also home to the Norfolk Blues rugby team and Southern Virginian Trojans semi-pro football team. The stadium also hosted the Virginia Destroyers of the United Football League, which played two abbreviated seasons at the Sportsplex and for whom the stadium's capacity was doubled.\n\nIn 2009 the city of Virginia Beach turned over the Sportsplex to a private firm, Hometown Sports Management, who changed the soccer-only Bermuda grass field over to a more durable multi-sport friendly turf and paved the parking lot.\n\nThe Sportsplex Stadium is a 3-level steel and concrete structure. The Service Level contains ticketing functions, administration area, team and officials’ dressing rooms and miscellaneous support spaces. The Concourse Level consists of a broad spectator walkway leading to the lower seating deck, plus concessions and restroom areas. The Club Level leads to the upper seating deck as well as six (6) luxury suites and Press boxes.\n\nThe Playing Field consists of a state-of-the-art turf surface. Made with Sportexe’s advanced MonoTech fiber, PowerBlade HP, it combines the softness and lush appearance of natural grass with the engineered performance of modern synthetic turf. PowerBlade HP 2.0SR is designed specifically for faster gameplay and has passed the testing requirements to qualify as a FIFA 1-Star surface.\nThe playing surface contains a specially engineered sand/rubber ratio, which makes for a denser surface, enhancing speed and ensures a consistent ball roll. The playing surface is sized to accommodate international soccer matches (75 yards x 120 yards). This is more than adequate for the full range of typical field events, including football, field hockey, rugby, and lacrosse.\n\nField Lighting has been engineered to provide 100 footcandles of illumination throughout the playing surface. This is a very high level that will meet the most demanding needs of a television broadcast.\n\nOn-Site Parking area is easily accessible through Landstown Road. A broad, well landscaped pedestrian walkway bisects the main parking areas, which contain a total of 2,122 spaces. Special areas near the stadium are reserved for handicapped parking and space is also provided for buses, teams, and service personnel.\n\nThe Concession Level provides a broad pedestrian walkway with four concession stands offering fans a wide selection of savory foods and treats. Fans seated in the Main Concourse are served by concessionaires. Concessions on the Club Level provide similar fare, plus special service menus for the Luxury Suites. Team meals are also available at a discount when ordered in advance.\n\nSmoke Pit Picnics family and corporate gatherings can be catered by the Sportsplex catering service and are welcomed at the southeast end zone with a large, landscaped, bermed picnic space with ample paved area for parties and concessions.\n\nThe Virginia Beach Sportsplex is a nationwide known 5K course. It hosts well known races such as Color me Rad, Dirty Girl Mud Run, Military Challenge, and Inflatable 5K. Starting off on the Sportsplex Turf going out behind to the City Property Limit and Virginia Beach National Golf Course, Around the Edge of the Sportsplex Athletic Fields, and around the Regional Training Center Fields, Finishing through the gates at the Smoke Pit.\n\nThe athletic fields are 3 acres of natural grass and plays host to many events such as youth soccer, lacrosse, and 5K's. Many of the events at the Sportsplex depend on high quality grass for week in and week out league play. The expectation for excellent sports fields is why field maintenance is conducted regularly at the Sportsplex to ensure that high quality grass is enjoyed for each and every event at the Sportsplex Athletic Fields.\n\nThe Sportsplex also contains the Regional Training Center, and is the regional training site for the U.S. Women's National Team field hockey team which has two turf fields and its own office building. The training center is one of America’s most well-known field hockey complexes. It also features lighting, locker rooms, parking, an equipment room and a concession stand. Turf time is available for rent for field hockey events, camps, clinics and tournaments.\n\nOn November 10, 2010, the Virginia Destroyers of the United Football League announced their home games would be played at the Sportsplex starting in Fall 2011. The UFL added temporary bleacher seating (recycled from the 2011 U.S. Open golf tournament) to expand the stadium to between 14,000 and 17,000 seats depending on demand. The Destroyers first game drew almost 13,000 fans to see a 34–17 Virginia win.\n\nThe Destroyers set an attendance record for the Sportsplex when 14,172 fans overflowed the stadium for the 2011 UFL Championship Game, which they won over the Las Vegas Locomotives, requiring the stadium to accommodate for standing room.\n\nAlong with the rest of the league, the Destroyers' attendance dropped precipitously during the 2012 season, prompting the league to again cut short its season; the Destroyers' business license expired March 1, 2013.\n\n"}
{"id": "1886392", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1886392", "title": "Jane Dixon", "text": "Jane Dixon\n\nJane Holmes Dixon (born Jane Hart Holmes; July 24, 1937 – December 25, 2012) was an American bishop of the Episcopal Church. She was a suffragan bishop in the Episcopal Diocese of Washington and served as Bishop of Washington \"pro tempore\" from 2001 to June 2002. She was the second woman consecrated as a bishop in the Episcopal Church. She died unexpectedly in her sleep in her home in Cathedral Heights on Christmas Day morning in 2012.\n\nDixon was born in Winona, Mississippi in 1937 and, after graduating from Vanderbilt University, spent her early life as a teacher and mother, raising three children.\n\nDixon enrolled at Virginia Theological Seminary at the age of 40, receiving her Master of Divinity degree in 1982. She later received the degree of Doctor of Divinity in 1993.\n\nDuring her tenure as bishop \"pro tempore\", Dixon sued in federal court to remove a priest, Samuel Edwards, from his position as a parish rector in Accokeek, Maryland. She had refused to approve Edwards's appointment early in 2001, since Edwards opposed the Episcopal Church's beliefs about female and homosexual clergy. Following several months of acrimony, Dixon filed suit to have Edwards removed. The court ruled in her favor in October 2001. After several appeals, the initial decision stood. She retired following the election of the Right Rev. John B. Chane.\n\n"}
{"id": "1886401", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1886401", "title": "Čelákovice", "text": "Čelákovice\n\nČelákovice () is a town in the Central Bohemian Region of the Czech Republic. It is located on the river Elbe, 25 kilometers from Prague. The population is about 12,000. The town is part of the Prague metropolitan area.\n\nThe site of the town has been inhabited since the Stone Age. During 9th century an early Slavic settlement was established. The first written record comes from year 1290. A fortress and a church building were built there. The fortress, reconstructed between 1973–82 in the Gothic–Renaissance style, serves as a municipal museum today.\n\nIn 1910 the engineering factory known as TOS (\"Továrna Obráběcích Strojů\") was founded, becoming and remaining the largest industrial plant of the town.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1886405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1886405", "title": "Independence Park (Jamaica)", "text": "Independence Park (Jamaica)\n\nIndependence Park is a sports and cultural complex in Kingston, Jamaica built for the 1966 British Empire and Commonwealth Games. It houses a variety of sports facilities. A statue of Bob Marley marks the entrance to the site. The main sports venue at the complex is the National Stadium.\n\nThe National Stadium is primarily used for football (being the home field of the Jamaica Football Federation) but is also considered the apex of Athletic competition in the West Indies being home to Jamaica's national athletic team for the Olympic Games and Commonwealth Games.\n\nIt was built for the 1962 Central American and Caribbean Games, for which it was the main stadium hosting the opening and closing ceremonies, track and field and cycling events. It was also home to the 1966 British Empire and Commonwealth Games. It holds 35,000 people.\n\nFacilities include:\n\nA statue of Olympic gold medallist Don Quarrie guards the entrance to the stadium.\n\nOther statues in the complex include those of Arthur Wint, Herb McKenley and Merlene Ottey.\n\nThe pools were built to host the aquatic events of the\n1962 Central American and Caribbean Games. The main swimming pool was modified to accommodate the 1966 British Empire and Commonwealth Games which required that distances be in yards as opposed to metres. It currently seats 8,500.\n\nThe National Arena was built to host the Weightlifting and Wrestling events of the 1966 British Empire and Commonwealth Games. It holds 6,000 people and was opened in 1963.\n\nIt is now used for a wide range of activities including sports tournaments (netball, table tennis, etc.), trade exhibitions, flower shows, the National Festival song and costume competitions and state funerals. Bob Marley and the Wailers performed there in '75. The 1982 Youth Consciousness Festival hosted Bunny Wailer, Peter Tosh, and Jimmy Cliff.\n\nThe National Indoor Sports Complex was built adjacent to the National Arena to host the 2003 IFNA Netball World Championships. It holds 6,000 people and opened in 2002. It also is used to host events such as parties, fashion shows as well as other sports such as basketball.\n\nThese are outdoor netball courts located in between the basketball courts and Swimming Complex. It is named after Leila Robinson, the first ever netball coach and manager for the Sunshine Girls. It underwent renovations at the end of 2014 into 2015 where the complex, which hosts four netball courts, received a huge makeover including a new state-of-the-art ISO approved red and blue surface, replacing the outdated rubberized surface as well as new stands, located on the right side of the complex, which now accommodated persons with disabilities. The renovations cost upward of $23 million.\n\nThe Institute of Sports (INSPORTS) was established in 1978 by the Government of Jamaica to promote the development of sport at the national level. It is located beside the National Arena. The building houses the Jamaica Table Tennis and Volleyball associations at the bottom floor; Netball Jamaica, Special Olympics and Basketball (JABA) associations on the second floor; and the Institute of Sports on the top floor.\n\nThese are the outdoor basketball courts located beside the Leila Robinson Netball Courts. The complex hosts two basketball courts with stands to the left of the complex.\n\n"}
{"id": "1886406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1886406", "title": "Alex King (rugby union)", "text": "Alex King (rugby union)\n\nAlexander David King (born 17 January 1975) is a rugby union footballer who played at fly-half for ASM Clermont Auvergne and formerly Wasps. King is currently a coach at Montpellier Hérault Rugby. King attended Brighton College and Bristol University but started his rugby career with Hove.\n\nHe has been capped by England and the Barbarians. The former Rosslyn Park player joined Wasps in 1996 and helped them win the League that year. He scored a try on his England debut against Argentina in 1997 and made his first Test appearance at Twickenham as a replacement against South Africa in 1998. He scored a try and a drop goal as Wasps won the 1999 Anglo-Welsh Cup Final, and the following year he kicked three penalties as Wasps retained the cup.\n\nHe earned his final cap against Wales in a World Cup warm up match in Cardiff in August 2003. However, an injury acquired during the game ultimately affected his selection prospects for the World Cup and he stayed at home. In the Zurich Premiership he had enjoyed a glittering climax to 2003, being 'man of the match' in the Premiership final and amassing 24 points, as Wasps beat Gloucester 39-3. He finished as the leading Premiership points scorer, including play offs, with 284 points. He was a kingpin of the Wasps team which won the Zurich Premiership and Heineken Cup double in the season 2003-04, scoring a drop goal in the Premiership final. The following season he helped Wasps complete a hat-trick of Premiership titles, again scoring a drop goal in the final.\n\nKing won his second Heineken Cup with Wasps in 2007, in the final of which he scored four penalties and a drop goal. \n\nAfter retiring he worked as a backs coach with ASM Clermont Auvergne. At the end of 2012 it was announced that he would go to Northampton Saints as their backs coach for the start of the 2013/14 season. For the 2017 Six Nations Championship, he has assumed the role of attack coach for the Wales national rugby union team.\n\n"}
{"id": "1886408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1886408", "title": "John T. Walker", "text": "John T. Walker\n\nJohn Thomas Walker (July 27, 1925 – September 30, 1989) was Bishop of Washington from 1977 to 1989 in the Episcopal Diocese of Washington. From 1978 to 1989, he also served as Dean of Washington National Cathedral. Previously, he served as Bishop Coadjutor from 1976 to 1977 and Bishop Suffragan from 1971 to 1976. He was the first African-American Bishop of Washington.\n\nBishop Walker was born in Barnesville, Georgia and brought up in Detroit. He was the first African American to be admitted as a student to the Virginia Theological Seminary in 1951. Bishop Walker first came to Washington as the Canon of Washington National Cathedral.\n\nHe earned a world reputation for social activism and was a good friend of Archbishop Desmond Tutu. He was once arrested at a protest rally against apartheid at the South African Embassy. From 1975 until his death in 1989, Bishop Walker served as President of the Board of Directors of Africare. The organization now presents the Bishop John T. Walker Distinguished Humanitarian Service Award each year in his honor.\n\nTo honor the first African-American Bishop of the Episcopal Diocese of Washington and all of his contributions, The Bishop John T. Walker School opened in September 2008 as a tuition-free, kindergarten through sixth grade school for boys in Southeast, Washington, D.C.. It was founded by the Episcopal Diocese of Washington in response to the serious educational challenges facing African American boys in the low-income communities east of the Anacostia River.\n\nAlso named after Walker is the Bishop John T. Walker Learning Center in Washington, D.C., whose mission is \"to support, encourage, and facilitate life-long learning to all peoples through instruction, dialogue, exploration, human interactions, and exchanges\".\n\nBishop Walker died suddenly on September 30, 1989 at the age of 64, of heart failure following triple bypass surgery. He is buried in Washington National Cathedral.\n\n"}
{"id": "1886410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1886410", "title": "Bel Air Middle School", "text": "Bel Air Middle School\n\nBel Air Middle School (BAMS) is a public middle school in Bel Air, Maryland, United States. It is part of the Harford County Public Schools district.\n\nDuring the 1999–2000 school year, Bel Air Middle School was recognized with the Blue Ribbon School Award of Excellence by the United States Department of Education, the highest award an American school can receive.\n\nThe school has been recognized by the Maryland State Department of Education for its long-term participation and success in the American Alliance for Health, Physical Education, Recreation and Dance's \"Hoops for Heart\" program, in which it has raised more than $200,000 during the past decade, the second-most in the country during that period. In 2006 alone, the school raised $35,037 the second-highest of all schools nationwide. The $29,509 raised for the program in 2005 also ranked the school second nationally. In 2006, Bel Air was one of over 25,000 schools across the country participated in the AAHPERD's basketball and jump rope fundraising programs.\n"}
{"id": "1886411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1886411", "title": "Beleaguered Castle", "text": "Beleaguered Castle\n\nBeleaguered Castle is a solitaire card game played with a deck of 52 playing cards. It is one of the card games touted as \"Freecell without cells\" because its game play is somewhat akin to the popular solitaire computer game but without extra empty spaces to maneuver. This game is also called Laying Siege and Sham Battle.\n\nFirst, the player removes the aces from the deck and aligns them vertically without overlapping them. They form the foundations. Then cards are dealt to the left and right of the aces, forming eight rows of six overlapping cards each.\n\nThe top card of each row (the cards that are exposed) is available for play either on the foundations or on any other row. The foundations are built up to kings by suit. Cards in the rows are built down in sequence regardless of suit. Once a row becomes empty, it can be filled by any card.\n\nThe game is won when all of the cards are built onto the foundations. However, this is easier said than done because most games are doomed to fail in just a few moves.\n\n\nIn the 2011 film \"Source Code\", \"Beleaguered Castle\" is the call sign for the Source Code program.\n\n"}
