{"id": "1884100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884100", "title": "Ian Bell", "text": "Ian Bell\n\nIan Ronald Bell (born 11 April 1982) is an English cricketer who played international cricket in all formats for the England cricket team. He currently plays county cricket for Warwickshire County Cricket Club. He is a right-handed higher/middle order batsman, described in \"The Times\" as an \"exquisite rapier,\" who is a very good cover driver of the ball. He is an occasional right-arm medium pace bowler and a slip fielder. He is also noted for his sharp reflexes and often fields in close catching positions. He has scored twenty-two Test centuries and four One Day International (ODI) 100s. In 2015, he became the second player since Ian Botham to be involved in five Ashes series wins.\n\nIn the 2006 New Year Honours List, Bell was appointed Member of the Order of the British Empire for his role in the successful Ashes campaign of 2005. In November 2006, he was awarded the Emerging Player of the Year award by the International Cricket Council. During 2008 and 2009, he was a more infrequent member of the England teams – however he reclaimed his Test place during the 2009 Ashes, which England won, and featured in several ODIs the following year. During 2010, he captained Warwickshire to victory in the CB40 final before scoring his first Ashes century the following winter as he helped England retain the Ashes down-under. Warwickshire County Cricket Club awarded Bell a benefit in 2011.\n\nIn July 2012, Bell signed a new three-year contract with Warwickshire extending his stay at the club at least till 2015. In November 2015, England selectors announced that Bell would be dropped from the English side ahead of the test series with South Africa. In August 2016, it was announced that Bell would be playing for the Perth Scorchers in the 2016–17 Big Bash League season. In August 2018, Bell scored his 20,000 run in first-class cricket.\n\nBell's family hailed from Dunchurch, near Rugby and he played for the local cricket club as a junior. Bell was educated at Princethorpe College, a Roman Catholic independent school in the nearby village of Princethorpe and made the 1st XI in year 7. He also attended Coventry City's football school of excellence, despite being a supporter of Aston Villa (those two football clubs are traditional rivals ), and played for Coventry and North Warwickshire Cricket Club. His brother Keith, born two years later, has played amateur cricket for Staffordshire, and has also played seven games for the Warwickshire Second XI.\n\nBell made three appearances for Warwickshire's second team in 1998, his next matches at senior level were with the England Under-19 cricket team on their tour of New Zealand that winter. He made 91 in the first innings of the first Test, and 115 in the first innings of the third; Dayle Hadlee called Bell \"the best 16-year-old I've ever seen\", and he was often compared with former England captain Mike Atherton. Bell played in several more Under-19 series, captaining the team at home against Sri Lanka in 2000, in their 2000/01 tour of India, and for the first match at home against West Indies in 2001.\n\nBy this time Bell had made his first-class debut, appearing in a single match for the Warwickshire first team in September 1999, but was out for a duck in his only innings and played no further part at that level until 2000/01, when he followed on from his Under-19 matches by playing for England A against the Leeward Islands in the Busta Cup tournament game in Anguilla.\n\nBell broke into the Warwickshire first-team in 2001 as he scored 836 runs in 16 innings including three centuries and two scores of 98. His first century, a score of 130 against Oxford UCCE, made him the county's youngest ever centurion at 19 years and 56 days. He also became the county's youngest capped player ever when Warwickshire awarded him a county cap on the final day of the season.\n\nBell was named in the first intake of the ECB National Academy who spent the 2001/02 winter in Australia. The day after he returned home from Adelaide he was brought into the full England Test squad to cover for the injured Mark Butcher on the New Zealand tour.\n\nIn 2002 Bell's four-day form fell away as he scored 658 at an average of 24.37 however he was instrumental in the county's Benson & Hedges Cup success. He top-scored in the Quarter-final (scoring 85 not out), Semi-final (46) and Final (65 not out), the latter performance winning him the Gold Award in the last ever Benson & Hedges Cup final.\n\nBell's best form in 2003 once again came in the one-day format, he scored 779 runs at 28.85 in the County Championship compared to 560 runs at 43.07 in the National League, his best performance came at Chelmsford where he scored his maiden one-day century, 125 off 113 deliveries, as well as taking 5/41, his best one-day bowling figures. This was only the second time a Warwickshire player had achieved this feat.\n\nAfter two poor seasons Bell was back to his best in 2004, he scored 1498 Championship runs which included six centuries. One of the six was a career-best 262 not out against Sussex; the innings lasting ten minutes short of ten hours made him the county's youngest ever double-centurion. In late July he began an impressive sequence of four centuries in five first-class innings, the other being a score of 96 not out. The centuries in both innings against Lancashire were the first by a Warwickshire batsman against an authentic attack (David Hemp achieved the feat against declaration bowling) since Brian Lara in 1994. This run of form led to him being brought into the England Test squad when Graham Thorpe was left doubtful with a finger injury.\n\nBell made his international debut in the final match of the Test series against the West Indies at The Oval. He hit 70, batting at number five in England's first innings; he was not required to bat again as England forced the West Indies to follow on and won the game by ten wickets.\n\nBell was selected as part of the squad to tour Zimbabwe and South Africa and he made his One Day International debut alongside Kevin Pietersen against Zimbabwe at Harare. Bell opened the innings and hit 75, which earnt him his first ODI man-of-the-match award. He played all four matches of the series averaging 40.75. Although he was not chosen for any of the Tests against South Africa, he was selected for the first four of seven ODI matches but struggled, making 26 runs in three innings.\n\nIn 2005, Bell enjoyed a superb start to the season, scoring 480 first-class runs in April alone to break Graeme Hick's 17-year-old record. He was recalled to the England team for the two-Test series against Bangladesh, however England's innings victories in both Tests allowed him only two innings. In the first Test at Lord's, Bell made 65 not out, and in the second at Chester-le-Street he scored 162 not out, in the process becoming the first Englishman since Leslie Ames in 1935 to score over 100 runs before lunch in a Test match.\n\nFor the 2005 Ashes series, three players – Bell, Graham Thorpe and Kevin Pietersen – were in the running for two spots in the team, and Bell and Pietersen were preferred to Thorpe. Before the first Test at Lord's, Bell's test average was 297, rising to 303 just before he was out, the sixth highest average at any point of a player's career of all time. Bell failed in the first two matches, at Lord's and Edgbaston, but in the third Test at Old Trafford he overcame early struggles against Shane Warne to post a half-century in each innings. However, he only scored six runs in four innings in the fourth and fifth Tests, including a pair at the Oval, leaving him with a batting average for the series of only 17.10, by far the lowest of the English batsmen. He was appointed Member of the Order of the British Empire in the 2006 New Year Honours. Despite England winning the Ashes back and being appointed MBE, Bell has since described the 2005 Ashes as a low point during which he doubted himself.\n\nDespite failing against Australia, he was included in the 17-man squad for the winter tour of Pakistan. There was speculation in the press that he would not be included in the Test team, but when Michael Vaughan was injured before the first Test, Bell got another opportunity. He took it, scoring a century and two half-centuries in the three-match series, and becoming England's top scorer in the series with 313 runs at an average of 52.16. He also took his first Test wicket with his part-time bowling when he caught and bowled Mohammad Yousuf.\n\nThis form on the subcontinent continued on 18 February 2006 in England's first warm-up game prior to the Test series against India when Bell top-scored with 78 at Mumbai. He could not maintain this form into the Test series where, in 6 innings, he only scored 131 runs at an average of just under 22.\n\nAfter returning from India, Bell had an average start to the season with Warwickshire. He was named in the squad of 13 for the first home Test of the summer, against Sri Lanka, but with the return of Marcus Trescothick, coupled with the good form of Paul Collingwood and the emergence of Alastair Cook, Bell was dropped from the starting 11. Bell was selected in the squad for the 5 match ODI series against Sri Lanka, and was one of only a couple of players to come through the series with any credit.\n\nAs a result of this, and the injury to Andrew Flintoff, Bell was recalled to the Test team for the first Test against Pakistan. After spending most of his career batting in the top four, he was asked to bat at number six. He scored a century in each of the first three Tests, becoming the first Englishman since Graham Gooch to score a century in three successive Test matches, but missed his chance to make it four in a row after scoring only 9 in the first innings and being 9 not out when the fourth Test unexpectedly finished a day early after the Pakistan ball tampering row. He finished the series with an average of 93.75, but surprisingly was not awarded the man-of-the-series award for England, with the honour going to Andrew Strauss who averaged 63.42. This run of form (100*, 28, 106*, 119, 4, 9, 9*) gave him an overall Test average of almost 48. Given his average against Australia was only 17, his average against all other sides was around 68. He also played in the ODI series against Pakistan, achieving his two highest scores at the time: 88 at Sophia Gardens and 86* at Trent Bridge, the latter earning him the man-of-the-match award following England's victory.\n\nIn September 2006 Bell was named in the squad for the Champions Trophy in India and also in the squad to tour Australia to attempt to retain the Ashes. In the absence of Marcus Trescothick he was promoted to open the batting for the one-day side. In England's three matches he scored 97 runs, at an average of 32.33. England lost their first two games (to India and Australia) and crashed out of the tournament despite a final group-stage win over eventual runners-up, West Indies.\n\nComing into the Ashes series, with Andrew Flintoff named as captain for the tour and reclaiming his place at number six in the batting order, Bell was viewed as competing with Alastair Cook and Paul Collingwood for two places in the starting eleven. However, because Marcus Trescothick returned to England prior to the first Test, Bell, Cook and Collingwood played in the team throughout the series. Scoring a total of 331 runs, including four half centuries, Bell averaged 33.10 for the series. He failed to convert good starts into big scores, and England suffered a 0 – 5 Test series whitewash. This poor run of results continued into the one-day series: England lost the Twenty20 game and the first of the ODI's. However, England squeaked through into the final of the Commonwealth Bank Series, and dispatched Australia in the finals in two straight games, with Bell scoring 65 in the first of them.\n\nBell was selected as part of England's 15-man squad for the world cup in the West Indies. England had a largely disappointing tournament and Bell's performances were typical of the team as a whole. At the start of the tournament he was selected to bat at number three, as England lost to New Zealand and stuttered to wins over Kenya, Canada and Ireland. Bell suffered an average run of form in these matches, scoring 5, 28, 16 and 31. After defeat to eventual runners up, Sri Lanka, a game in which Bell scored 47, England dropped Ed Joyce from the top of the order and Bell was promoted to open with captain Michael Vaughan. The change in position initially worked well as Bell scored 77 as England lost to Australia, but in the next two games, against Bangladesh and South Africa, he only managed scores of 0 and 7, and was dropped for England's final match against the West Indies, a game which England won. England finished fifth in the Super 8 stage of the tournament and failed to qualify for the semi-finals.\n\nIan Bell scored the fourth of England's hundreds against the West Indies in the first Test at Lord's in May. Along with Alastair Cook, Paul Collingwood and Matt Prior, they became the first four batsmen for England since 1938 to each score a century in the same Test match. Bell's innings came at number 6 in the batting order and after England declared he had the impressive record at that position of 484 runs at 121.00.\n\nOn 21 August 2007, Bell scored his maiden ODI century in the first of seven one-day matches against India, scoring 126 runs off 118 balls (a strike rate of 106.8). Bell went on to score two more fifties in the next two games, including a player-of-the-match 79 at Edgbaston as England took a 2–1 lead in the series. Bell eventually averaged 70.33 for the seven games as England claimed the series 4–3, with a convincing 7 wicket win in the deciding match at Lord's, and Bell was named Man of the Series.\n\nTravelling with the team to Sri Lanka in late September 2007, Bell at first continued his impressive one-day form, scoring 131 from only 121 deliveries, in England's only warm-up match against a Sri Lanka Cricket Board XI. However, Bell struggled with the bat in the subsequent 5-game ODI series, scoring just 70 runs at an average of 14.00.\n\nBell recovered form in the first Test match, scoring 83 and 74, in vain, as England fell to an 88-run defeat. Sri Lanka won the Test series 1–0, after the second and third matches were drawn, and Bell finished the series with a batting average of 43.50.\n\nBell initially struggled for form as England opened its five-game ODI series against New Zealand with two heavy defeats, scoring just 5 and 0. However, under pressure for his place in the side, Bell top-scored in England's win in Auckland in the third game of the series with 73 runs, and then made 43 runs from 41 balls as England tied the fourth match, in Napier. Bell managed 24 runs in the final game as New Zealand clinched the series 3–1.\n\nIn the first Test match at Hamilton, Bell was hit hard on the wrist during New Zealand's first innings, whilst fielding at short leg. Despite initial fears that his wrist was broken and his tour would be over, the blow turned out to have only caused swelling and bruising. Bell went on to score 25 in England's first innings and top scored in the second innings with an unbeaten 54 as England crumbled to 110 all out and lost the match by 189 runs, the next highest score in the innings being 13 by Alastair Cook. In the second Test, Bell scored 11 and 41 as England won the match to level the series. His finest innings of the tour was in the final Test. After scoring 9 in the first innings, Bell was under some pressure to post a big score. He joined Andrew Strauss at the crease with England 140/3 and the pair proceeded to put on 187 runs and effectively put the match beyond New Zealand. In the process, Bell scored his seventh Test century, and his first overseas for more than two years. He finished the series with a batting average of 50.00, and became the second youngest England player to reach 2,500 runs.\n\nBell struggled in the home Test series, however, scoring only 45 runs in four innings, with a high score of 21*. He hit some form in the Twenty20 match that followed, top scoring with his highest score in that format, 60*, as England won by nine wickets. He then adopted the opening position for the following ODI series, however his form was intermittent with scores of 46, 0, 20, and 46.\n\nBell started off this series against South Africa by hitting 199 before being dismissed by Paul Harris, one short of his maiden double century, thus becoming the first Englishman to be dismissed on 199. After the initial good start to the tour though, Bell struggled to find form and aside from a 50 in the first innings of the third Test. he did not manage to progress much past the twenties and thirties. In the final Test against South Africa he made just 28 runs in the match, being dismissed for 24 in the first innings and just four in the second. In the ODI series, he made good scores in the first two matches, hitting 35 in the first match before an unbeaten 28 in the second. He made 73 in the first match as England won by 126 runs. He was less impressive in the fourth match at Lord's, making just 13.\n\nHe made 25 in the first ODI against India, but was out for one in the second as England lost by 54 runs. Bell's highest score of the series came in the third match of the series where he made 46, but England still lost the game by 16 runs on the D/L Method. He struggled in the first Test against India, making scores of 17 and seven as England lost the first Test match by 6 wickets. The second Test finished in a draw, although Bell again failed to make a substantial score, being dismissed for just one in the first innings before finishing the second innings on 24 not out.\n\nHe suffered similarly in India and the West Indies, and following England's dismissal for 51 in the First Test, in which Bell made just four runs, he was dropped in favour of Owais Shah.\n\nBell reacted well to being dropped and began to consistently score runs in the county championship that led to him being named in the 16-man training party for the tests against Australia and captain of the England Lions for their game against Australia, though he failed in that match, scoring 0 (a golden duck) and 20, and remained on the sidelines for the first two Tests of the series.\n\nBell was selected to play in the third Test at Edgbaston, his home ground, replacing the injured Kevin Pietersen. On his return to the Test side and batting at number three, he scored 53 in England's only innings in a drawn match. The 4th Test Match at Headingley, in which he was twice dismissed edging Mitchell Johnson for scores of eight and three gave Bell his part of a Test record – for the first time in the history of Test cricket the same middle order, three (Ravi Bopara), four (Bell) and five (Paul Collingwood), all failed to reach double figures in either innings, contributing 16 runs between them.\n\nNonetheless Bell made 126 against Nottinghamshire at Trent Bridge the next week. He was then selected to play in the final Test at The Oval, and scored 72 to lay a foundation for England's 172-run first-innings lead. Though he was dismissed for four in the second innings, a debut century from Warwickshire colleague Jonathan Trott led England to a 197-run victory, and thus a 2–1 series victory in the Ashes. Bell was dismissed by Mitchell Johnson four times in his five innings in the series, and had scored 140 runs at an average of only 28, though with two half centuries.\n\nAfter a poor first Test for England which ended in a draw at Centurion, Bell, with scores of 5 and 2, Bell's place in the team was under fire. England Team Director Andy Flower gave Bell a vote of confidence and the response from Bell was his first Test match century since his 199 vs South Africa in July 2008. In the second Test at Durban, Bell scored 141 runs in the first innings to hush his critics – prior to this innings his Test batting average had fallen to 38.9. The final two tests were modest for Bell, who scored 166 runs in 4 innings at an average of 41.50. However, the series marked the beginning of a period of substantial batting achievement for Bell. Less than two years later his average would stand at 49.29; the figure at right shows that over the same period his ten innings moving average rose from 32 to 119 runs.\n\nOn the tour of Bangladesh, Bell scored a quick and confident 84 off 105 balls in England's first innings of the first Test at Chittagong, and scored 39 not out in the second innings. By batting lower down the order, typically at 6, Bell has seen his scores improve and he has scored five of his ten Test centuries whilst batting at 6. In the second test at Mirpur, with England struggling for momentum on 107–3, Bell came to the crease at number 5 making crucial partnerships with Jonathan Trott (67 run partnership), Matt Prior (98 run partnership) and a 143-run stand with Tim Bresnan for the 6th wicket on his way towards his 10th Test match century, finally being dismissed for 138. During his century, Bell's average against Bangladesh touched 488, the highest any batsman has had against a particular country in the history of Test cricket.\n\nBell featured in the home Test series with Bangladesh at the start of the season, scoring a century in the second Test. However, a broken metatarsal sustained in the subsequent one-day series ruled him out of the summer's main series against Pakistan. He did return to action for his county Warwickshire towards the end of the season, scoring a match-winning century as acting captain in the CB40 final against Somerset.\n\nBy the time the Ashes came around, Bell had a regular place at No. 6 in the team. Throughout the series there were talks of a possible leap up the order, in front of an out-of-form Paul Collingwood. He started off the series well, and progressed throughout the series with many elegant drives, cuts and pulls. However it was not until the 5th Test in Sydney that he could score his first Ashes century after eleven 50s. Bell was one of England's finest with the bat, and helped to contribute to a 3–1 series victory, England's first in Australia since Mike Gatting's men in 1986/87.\n\nIn the February and March Bangladesh, India, and Sri Lanka hosted the 2011 World Cup. In England's first match they successfully chased a high total by Netherlands, with Bell contributing 33 runs. Next England played India, put up a challenging total of 338. Bell and his captain Strauss set about consolidating England's position, while Bell survived a lbw decision off the bowling of left-arm spinner Yuvraj Singh. Opposition captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni asked for a review. TV replays and Hawk-Eye showed that Bell was indeed plumb. However, since there was a rule wherein the on-field umpire (Billy Bowden here) can have the final decision if the batsman was 2.5 metres forward from the stumps, the umpire stood by his 'not out' decision. Bell went on to make 69 runs and almost helped England win comfortably. This match eventually ended in a tie.\n\nDuring the 2011 summer, Bell was an integral part of the team that inflicted a 4 – 0 Test whitewash over the Indian cricket team, helping England to become the number 1 team in the world for the first time since the ICC ranking came into existence. Bell was involved in a controversial run out during the series. Believing the ball to be dead after reaching the boundary, Bell left the middle to head in for tea, however the ball had not actually crossed the boundary and was promptly thrown in by the fielder and the bails taken off. Initially given out, the Indians retracted their appeal at tea and Bell returned to carry on his innings straight after. Bell scored his first double ton in the series, a test best of 235. For taking this decision the Indian captain, Mahendra Singh Dhoni, won the 'Spirit of the cricket' award at the 2011 ICC Awards.\n\nHis innings of 159 against India at Nottingham was nominated to be one of the best Test batting performance of the year 2011 by ESPNCricinfo. For his performances in 2011, he was named in the World Test XI by Cricinfo.\n\nIn February, the English Team was whitewashed by Pakistan in the UAE, Bell scored just 51 runs in six innings as the English batsmen were exposed off their Spin technique, particularly picking Saeed Ajmal's doosra. In the first game in Dubai, Bell was dismissed for a duck in the first innings, followed by making just four in the second. In the first innings of the second Test he scored 29, his highest score in the series, but was unable to make an impact in the second innings as England were bowled out for 72 to go 2–0 down in the series. England lost the final game of the series by 71 runs, with. Bell again failing to make an impact.\n\nBell made 52 in the first innings against Sri Lanka but England went on to lose the game by 75 runs, their fourth straight Test defeat. This meant that England had to win the next game to keep hold of their Number One Test ranking. They went on to do so, winning the match by an innings. Bell made 18 in the first innings and was not required to bat again.\n\nIn the first Test against the West Indies. Bell returned to form in his favoured English conditions, hitting scores of 61 and 63 not out. In the third and final test of the series, Bell made 73 not out to help secure a draw for England which meant that they won the series. Bell was named in the 14 member squad for the three-match NatWest ODI series against West Indies starting on 16 June at Southampton. Bell would be the opening partner of Cook in the ODI series.\n"}
{"id": "1884115", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884115", "title": "Gall wasp", "text": "Gall wasp\n\nGall wasps, also called gallflies, are a family (Cynipidae) in the wasp superfamily Cynipoidea within the suborder Apocrita of the order Hymenoptera. Their common name comes from the galls they induce on plants for larval development. About 1300 species of this generally very small creature (1–8 mm) are known worldwide, with about 360 species of 36 different genera in Europe and some 800 species in North America.\n\nLike all Apocrita, gall wasps have a distinctive body shape, the so-called wasp waist. The first abdominal tergum (the propodeum) is conjoined with the thorax, while the second abdominal segment forms a sort of shaft, the petiole. The petiole connects with the gaster, which is the functional abdomen in apocritan wasps, starting with the third abdominal segment proper. Together, the petiole and the gaster form the metasoma, while the thorax and the propodeum make up the mesosoma.\n\nThe antennae are straight and consist of two or three segments. In many varieties, the backside of the mesosoma appears longitudinally banded. The wings are typically simply structured. The female's egg-depositing ovipositor is often seen protruding from the tip of the metasoma.\n\nThe reproduction of the gall wasp is partly parthenogenesis, in which a male is completely unnecessary, and partly two-sex propagation. With most species an alternation of generations occurs, with one two-sex generation and one parthenogenic generation annually, whereas some species produce very few males and reproduce only by parthenogenesis. This process differentiates the various generations primarily in their appearance and the form of the plant galls they induce.\n\nThe larvae of most gall wasps develop in characteristic plant galls they induce themselves, but many species are also inquilines of other gall wasps, such as those of the genus \"Synergus.\"\n\nThe plant galls mostly develop directly after the female insect lays the eggs. The inducement for the gall formation is largely unknown; discussion speculates as to chemical, mechanical, and viral triggers. The hatching larvae nourish themselves with the nutritive tissue of the galls, in which they are otherwise well-protected from external environmental effects. The host plants, and the size and shape of the galls are specific to the majority of gall wasps, with about 70% of the known species parasitizing various types of oak trees. Galls can be found on nearly all parts of such trees, including the leaves, buds, branches, and roots. Other species of gall wasps live in eucalyptus trees, rose bushes or maple trees, as well as many herbs. Frequently, the determination of the species is much easier through observation of the galls produced rather than the insect itself.\n\nA gall provides the developing gall wasp with a safe refuge for the most vulnerable stage of its life cycle, but many other wasps have found a way to penetrate this defence and parasitise the larva(e) within. Some of these parasitoids use their long, hardened egg-laying tube (ovipositor) to bore into the gall and lay an egg on the helpless gall maker. A bedeguar or robin's pincushions gall, collected before the autumn and kept cool, may result in at least one species of parasitoid emerging instead of the gall maker. These wasps, such as \"Eurytoma rosae\", are beautiful, metallic insects with long ovipositors. These parasitoids may, in turn, be preyed upon by other wasps, hyperparasitoids.\n\nMost species of gall wasps live as gall-formers on oaks. One of the most well-known is the common oak gall wasp (\"Cynips quercusfolii\"), which induces characteristic, 2-cm in diameter, spherical galls on the undersides of oak leaves.\n\nThese turn reddish in the fall and are commonly known as oak apples. Light lentiform galls on the undersides of the same leaves are induced by \"Neuroterus quercusbaccarum\"; darker ones with bulging edges are formed by \"Neuroterus numismalis.\" Also striking are the galls of \"Cynips longiventris,\" which likewise can be found on the undersides of leaves, and are recognizable for their spheroidal shape and irregular red streaks. The oak potato gall wasp (\"Biorrhiza pallida\") has round galls that grow to about 4 cm. These are known colloquially as oak potatoes. The latter type of gall is induced by this type of wasp not on the leaves, but on the roots of the oak. On the buds of young oak twigs, one can often find the hard-shelled galls of \"Andricus kollari\" and \"Andricus quercustozae.\" Galls do not cause significant harm to oak trees.\n\nThe galls of the rose gall wasp (\"Diplolepis rosae\") are also distinctive and are known as bedeguars or robin's pincushions. These are found on the shoots of dog roses and have a length of up to 5 cm with red, long-haired outgrowths. Inside the galls are several chambers, which may be occupied by larvae.\n\nThere are two subfamilies, one extinct and one extant:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1884117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884117", "title": "Nyāya Sūtras", "text": "Nyāya Sūtras\n\nThe Nyāya Sūtras is an ancient Indian Sanskrit text composed by , and the foundational text of the Nyaya school of Hindu philosophy. The date when the text was composed, and the biography of its author is unknown, but variously estimated between 6th-century BCE and 2nd-century CE. The text may have been composed by more than one author, over a period of time. The text consists of five books, with two chapters in each book, with a cumulative total of 528 aphoristic sutras, about rules of reason, logic, epistemology and metaphysics.\n\nThe Nyāya Sūtras is a Hindu text, notable for focusing on knowledge and logic, and making no mention of Vedic rituals. The first book is structured as a general introduction and table of contents of sixteen categories of knowledge. Book two is about \"pramana\" (epistemology), book three is about \"prameya\" or the objects of knowledge, and the text discusses the nature of knowledge in remaining books. It set the foundation for Nyaya tradition of the empirical theory of validity and truth, opposing uncritical appeals to intuition or scriptural authority.\n\nThe Nyaya sutras cover a wide range of topics, including Tarka-Vidyā, the science of debate or Vāda-Vidyā, the science of discussion. The \"Nyāya Sutras\" are related to but extend the epistemological and metaphysical system. Later commentaries expanded, expounded and discussed Nyaya sutras, the earlier surviving commentaries being by Vātsyāyana (c.450–500 CE), followed by the \"Nyāyavārttika\" of Uddyotakāra (c. 6th–7th centuries), Vācaspati Miśra's \"Tātparyatīkā\" (9th century), Udayana's \"Tātparyapariśuddhi\" (10th century), and Jayanta's \"Nyāyamañjarī\" (10th century).\n\nThe \"Nyaya-sutras\" is attributed to Gautama, who was at least the principal author. According to Karl Potter, this name has been a very common Indian name, and the author is also reverentially referred to as Gotama, Dirghatapas and Aksapada Gautama. Little is known about Gautama, or which century he lived in. Scholarly estimates, based on textual analysis, vary from the 6th century BCE, making him a contemporary of Buddha and Mahavira, to as late as the 2nd century CE. Some scholars favor the theory that the cryptic text Nyaya-sutras was expanded over time by multiple authors, with the earliest layer from about mid-first millennium BCE that was composed by Gautama. The earliest layer is likely to be Book 1 and 5 of the text, while Book 3 and 4 may have been added last, but this is not certain.\n\nIt is likely, states Jeaneane Fowler, that Nyaya and the science of reason stretch back into the Vedic era; it developed in the ancient Indian tradition that involved \"dialectical tournaments, in the halls of kings and schools of Vedic philosophers\", and Gautama was the one who distilled and systematized this pre-existing knowledge into sutras, or aphoristic compilations called \"nyayasutras\".\n\nThe Nyaya school of Hinduism influenced all other schools of Hindu philosophy, as well as Buddhism. Despite their differences, these scholars studied with each other and debated ideas, with Tibetan records suggesting that Buddhist scholars spent years residing with Hindu Nyaya scholars to master the art of reasoning and logic. This cooperation has enabled scholars to place the currently surviving version of the \"Nyayasutras\", to a terminus ante quem (completed before) date of about the 2nd century CE, because one of the most famous and established Buddhist scholars of that era, Nagarjuna, explicitly states, \"sutra 4.2.25 is addressed against the Madhyamika system\" of Buddhism. Other ancient Buddhist texts confirm that Nyayasutras existed before them, and the text is considered the primary text of old Nyaya school of Hinduism.\n\nThe text is written in \"sutra\" genre. A \"sutra\" is a Sanskrit word that means \"string, thread\", and represents a condensed manual of knowledge of a specific field or school. Each \"sutra\" is any short rule, like a theorem distilled into few words or syllables, around which \"teachings of ritual, philosophy, grammar or any field of knowledge\" can be woven. Sutras were compiled to be remembered, used as reference and to help teach and transmit ideas from one generation to the next.\n\nThe Nyayasutra is divided into five books, each book subdivided into two chapters each. The structure of the text is, states Potter, a layout of \"ahnikas\" or lessons served into daily portions, each portion consisting of a number of \"sutras\" or aphorisms. The architecture of the text is also split and collated into \"prakaranas\" or topics, which later commentators such as Vatsyayana and Vacaspati Misra used to compose their bhasya, ancient texts that have survived into the modern era. There are several surviving manuscripts of the Nyayasutras, with a slight difference in number of sutras, of which the \"Chowkhamba\" edition is often studied.\n\nThe first sutra 1.1.1 of the text asserts its scope and the following sixteen categories of knowledge as a means to gain competence in any field of interest:\nThese sixteen categories cover many sections of the text. The verse 1.1.2 of the \"Nyāya Sūtra\" declares the text's goal is to study and describe the attainment of liberation of soul from wrong knowledge, faults and sorrow, through the application of above sixteen categories of perfecting knowledge.\n\nThe Nyaya-sutras assert the premise that \"all knowledge is not intrinsically valid\", that \"most knowledge is not valid unless proven\" and \"truth exists whether we human beings know it or not\". However, states Fowler, the text accepts the foundation that \"some knowledge is self evident\" and axiomatic in every field of knowledge, which can neither be proven nor needs proof, such as \"I am conscious\", \"I think\" and \"soul exists\". Furthermore, the text presents its thesis that knowledge is not self-revealing, one must make effort to gain knowledge and this is a systematic process that empowers one to learn correct knowledge, and abandon incorrect knowledge.\n\nThe Nyāya sutras asserts and then discusses four reliable means of obtaining knowledge (\"pramāṇa\"), viz., Perception, Inference, Comparison and Reliable Testimony.\n\nThe Nyayasutras assert that perception is the primary proper means of gaining true knowledge. All other epistemic methods are directly or indirectly based on perception, according to the text, and anything that is claimed to be \"true knowledge\" must be confirmed or confirmable by perception. This it terms as the doctrine of convergence, and this doctrine includes direct or implied perception. Gautama defines perception as the knowledge that arises by the contact of one or more senses with an object or phenomenon. Gautama dedicates many sutras to discuss both the object and subject in the process of perception, and when senses may be unreliable. Erratic eyesight or other senses (\"Avyabhicara\") can be a source of doubt or false knowledge, as can prejudgmental or prejudicial state of mind, states the Nyayasutras.\n\nThe text asserts \"Pratyaksa\" leads to \"Laukika\" or ordinary knowledge, where the five senses directly and clearly apprehend a reality, and this is true definite knowledge according to the text. It defines indefinite knowledge as one where there is doubt, and the text gives an example of seeing a distant stationary object in the evening and wondering whether it is a post or a man standing in the distance. In some of these cases, states Nyayasutras, correct knowledge is formulated by the principle of cumulative evidence. \"Manas\" (mind) is considered an internal sense, in the text, and it can either lead to correct or incorrect knowledge depending on how it includes, excludes or integrates information. These ideas are compiled, in later chapters of the text, into its treatise on \"Aprama\" (Theory on Errors).\n\nThe epistemic rationale for inference as a reliable source of knowledge, and Nyaya's theory has been a major contribution to the diverse schools of Hinduism, and other schools looked up to Nyaya scholars for insights on correct knowledge and incorrect knowledge through inference. The sections in Nyayasutras on inference blossomed into a treatise on syllogism over time.\n\nNyayasutras defines inference as the knowledge that follows or derives from other knowledge. It always follows perception, states the text, and is a universal relation or essential principle. One form of inference is a \"Purvavat\", or as Fowler translates, \"from cause to effect or a priori\". Thus, if a path or road is wet or river is swollen, states the text, then \"it has rained\" is a valid knowledge. The sutras assert that the \"universal relationship\" between the two is necessary for correct, reliable knowledge, that is \"if in all cases of A, B is true, then one may correctly infer B whenever A is perceived\". Further, there is a causal relation between the two, whether one knows or not of that cause, but inferred knowledge does not require one to know the cause for it to be valid knowledge, states Nyayasutra. The text states one must not confuse coexistence as a universal relation, and that while deduction and induction both are useful and valid means for gaining true knowledge, it lists rules when this method can lead to false knowledge.\n\nThe word \"upamana\", states Fowler, is a compound of \"upa\" (similarity) and \"mana\" (knowledge). It is a means of gaining knowledge based on \"similarity, comparison, analogy\", and considered reliable in Nyaya and many schools of Hinduism (but not in Vaisheshika and Charvaka, or Buddhism).\n\nThe Nyayasutras define \"upamana\" as the knowledge of a thing based on \"its likeness to another thing which is familiar\". It differs from \"Anumana\" (inference) in lacking a direct or immediate causal relation. It differs from \"Pratyaksha\" (perception), states the text, in using a linguistic referent and the foundation of pre-existing knowledge within the individual and what he learnt from his teachers, friends, family and past knowledge inherited from the wise, through a process of social cooperation. The \"Upamana\" method is secondary, it relies on perception, combined with linguistic referent and context. Comparison is not isolated \"pramana\" means, and sometimes works together with the \"Anumana\" and \"Sabda\" epistemic methods. Comparison is, in Nyayasutras, the process of permeating or infusing hypothesis, examples and tests, thus leading to objectivity and correct knowledge about something new and what one already presumes to know.\n\n\"Śabda\" (Sanskrit: शब्द, Word), in \"Nyayasutras\", means relying on word, testimony of a reliable source. \"Sabda-pramana\" has been an accepted and reliable method to knowledge by all orthodox schools of Hinduism including Nyaya, asserting that a human being needs to know numerous facts, and with the limited time and energy available, he can learn only a fraction of those facts and truths directly. He must rely on others, his parents, family, friends, teachers, ancestors and kindred members of society to rapidly acquire and share knowledge and thereby enrich each other's lives. This means of gaining correct knowledge is either spoken or written, but it is through \"Sabda\" (words). In addition to words, state the Nyayasutras, \"Shabda\" as a means of true knowledge depends on an agreed convention on what words mean, the structure of sentences, establishing context and their import. The source must be reliable and comprehensible, and the receiver of knowledge must be able to understand the knowledge therefrom.\n\nThe reliability of the source is important, and legitimate knowledge can only come from the \"Sabda\" of reliable sources. The schools of Hindu philosophy have debated if, how and when reliability of source can be objectively established. Gautama, in the Nyayasutras, offers a description for a reliable source. Some schools, such as Charvaka, state that this is never possible, and therefore \"Sabda\" in the Vedas or anyone else, can never be a proper \"pramana\". Other schools debate means to establish reliability.\n\nThe text, in sutras 1.1.32 and 1.1.39, presents its theory of proper arguments, stating that a proper argument must include five components:\n\nThe text defines and aphoristically discusses each of these.\n\nAn example of a proper argument is: \n\n\nThe Nyayasutras define and discuss \"Samsaya\" (Sanskrit: संशय, doubt) in sutras 1.1.23, 2.1.1 to 2.1.7, 3.2.1, 4.2.4 among others. This discussion is similar to those found in other schools of Hindu philosophy, expands on the theory of doubt presented by Kanada in the Vaisheshika school, but disagrees with the Charvaka school's theory of doubt and consequent \"there is no empirical knowledge ever\".\n\nThe theory of doubt, according to the Nyayasutras, starts with the premise that doubt is part of the human learning process and occurs when conflicting possibilities exist with regard to a cognized object. Doubt is neither error nor absence of knowledge, but a form of uncertainty and human struggle with probability when it faces incomplete or inconsistent information. It is a knowledge that is possibly partially valid and partially invalid, but doubt is a form of knowledge that has positive value. Doubt is an invitation to \"proceed to further investigation\", asserts the text. All four means of knowledge discovery (perception, inference, comparison and testimony) may be useful in this investigation, but doubt is both a psychological state and a means to knowledge, not in itself a valid knowledge, according to the sutras.\n\nThe Nyayasutra defines error as knowledge, an opinion or a conclusion about something that is different from what it really is. Gautama states in the text that the error is always in the process of cognition itself, or the \"subjective self\", and not in the object. It is the duty of the knowledge-seeker to \"test the validity of his knowledge\", both in assumptions or through practice (experience), but neither the object of knowledge nor the knowledge itself is responsible for errors; only the knowledge-seeker and his process of cognition is. The Nyaya theory shares ideas on the theory of errors with Advaita Vedanta, Buddhism and Mimamsa schools of Indian philosophies, states Rao, and these schools likely influenced each other.\n\nThe text identifies and cautions against five kinds of fallacious reasoning (\"hetvabhasa\") in sutra 1.2.4, discussing each in the sutras that follow, stating that these lead to false knowledge, in contrast to proper reasoning (\"hetu\"), which leads to true knowledge. The five fallacies or errors, according to Nyayasutras, are to be avoided, in addition to watching for debating tricks (\"chala\") used by those whose aim isn't true knowledge. The five forms of bogus reasoning identified by the text, states Ganeri, are:\n\nThe Nyayasutras dedicate many sections on causality and causal relations (\"Karana\", Sanskrit: कारण), particularly Book 4. Causes, in Nyaya view states Fowler, are \"antecedents of their effects invariably and unconditionally\". A specific effect is produced by a specific cause (plurality in causes is accepted). A specific cause produces a specific effect and no other (plurality in effect, or contradictory effect is not accepted). There cannot be reciprocity to a cause; either we misunderstand the cause or misapprehend the effect. The text rejects remote or supernatural causes, and rejects that qualities are causes. Causes are immediately antecedent, causes exist before an effect in time, and to know something is to understand the effect and the specific cause(s).\n\nThe text identifies three types of causes – inherent or material cause (\"Samavayi-karana\"), non-inherent cause (\"Asamavayi-karana\"), and efficient cause (\"Nimitta-karana\"). These, it states, arise from \"Dravya\" (substance), \"Guna\" (quality) and \"Karma\" (action).\n\nThe text seeds the theory of negative entities, where both being and non-being, presence and absence of something is considered correct and useful knowledge. Absence of a book on a table or absence of particular color in a painting has a place in its epistemic process, in addition to positively verifiable characteristics of the table or a painting.\n\nEarly Nyaya school scholars considered the hypothesis of Ishvara as a creator God with the power to grant blessings, boons and fruits. However, the Nyayasutras and early Nyaya scholars rejected this hypothesis, and were non-theistic or atheists.\n\nIn Nyayasutra's Book 4, Chapter 1 examines what causes production and destruction of entities (life, matter) in the universe. It considers many hypotheses, including \"Ishvara\". Verses 19–21 postulate that Ishvara exists and is the cause, states a consequence of the postulate, then presents contrary evidence, and from contradiction concludes that the postulate must be invalid.\n\nLater scholars of Nyaya school reconsidered this question and offered counter arguments for what is God (Ishvara) and various arguments to prove the existence of \"Ishvara\". The 5th century CE Nyaya school scholar Prastapada, for example, revisited the premise of God. He was followed by Udayana, who in his text \"Nyayakusumanjali\", interpreted \"it\" in verse 4.1.21 of Nyaya Sutra above, as \"human action\" and \"him\" as \"Ishvara\", then he developed counter arguments to prove the existence of Ishvara, a reasoning that fueled the debate and disagreements on God in Neo-Nyaya and other Hindu traditions of 2nd millennium CE.\n\nA large part of the third book of the Nyayasutras is dedicated to the premise and the nature of a Self (soul, atman) and its relation to knowledge, liberation from sorrow and inner freedom (moksha).\n\nThe sutras 4.2.42 to 4.2.48 of Nyayasutras, states Stephen Phillips, state that \"philosophy is a form of yoga\".\n\nThe text recommends yogic meditation in quiet places such as a forest, cave or sandy beach in sutra 4.2.42, that the knowledge seeker should purify one's soul by Yamas, Niyamas and spiritualism of yoga in sutra 4.2.46. Meditation is a treasured and recommended practice in the text, and extensively discussed by Nyaya scholars that followed Aksyapada Gautama. Vatsyayana wrote in his commentary on Nyayasutras, for example, that meditation is that which enables the mind to contact one's soul, which is accompanied by a conscious eagerness to get at the truth, and such meditation is an essential practice to gain true knowledge.\n\nThe Nyayasutras state that one must study the means of correct knowledge and hold discussions with the learned, sincere and unenvious fellow seekers of knowledge state sutras 4.2.47 and 4.2.48. One must, translates Phillips, take into account \"consideration of personal character as well as the nature of beliefs held by the opponent\", in deciding the nature of one's discussions, according to Nyayasutras. In some cases, asserts the text, it is better to avoid arguing with hostile opponents and use methods of knowledge like \"a fence is used to safeguard the growth of seeds\".\n\nThe earliest surviving complete bhasya (review and commentary) on Nyaya Sutras is by Vatsyayana. This commentary itself inspired many secondary and tertiary \"bhasya\". Vatsyayana's commentary has been variously dated to be from the 5th century CE, or much earlier around 2nd century BCE. Another often studied surviving commentary on the text is credited to Vacaspati Mishra from about 9th century CE.\nOther historical Indian commentaries and works inspired by Nyayasutras and which have survived into the modern era, include \"Nyaya-varttika\" by 6th-century Uddyotakara, \"Nyaya-bhasyatika\" by 6th-century Bhavivikta, another \"Nyaya-bhasyatika\" by 7th-century Aviddhakarna, \"Nyaya-bhusana\" by 9th-century Bhasarvajana, \"Nyaya-manjari\" by 9th-century Kashmir scholar Jayanta Bhatta, \"Nyaya-prakirnaka\" by 10th-century Karnata scholar Trilocana, and \"Nyaya-kandali\" by 10th-century Bengal scholar Sridhara.\n\nNumerous other commentaries are referenced in other Indian historical texts, but these manuscripts are either lost or yet to be found. Starting around 11th- to 12th century CE, Udayana wrote a primary work, that built upon and expanded the theories on reason found in Nyayasutras. Udayana's work created the foundation for Navya-Nyaya (new Nyaya) school. The Hindu scholar Gangesa of 13th- or 14th-century, integrated the Gautama's Nyayasutras and Udayana's Navya-Nyaya work, to create the influential \"Tattvacintāmaṇi\" text considered a masterpiece by scholars.\n\nThe Nyaya-sutras have been one of the foundations for the historic debate between Hinduism's premise that ultimate reality and atman (soul) exists, and Buddhism's premise that there is voidness and anatta (no-soul). In Nyaya-sutra, the Buddhist premises and arguments to refute those premise are found in many chapters, such as sutras of chapters 3.2, 4.1 and 4.2. The text has been influential in this debate, with the 2nd-century Buddhist scholar Nagarjuna states that the Nyaya school and Buddhism differ on their conception of Self (Atman) and their views on the Vedas, and the sutra 4.2.25 of Nyayasutra is addressed against the Madhyamika system of Buddhism.\n\nNagarjuna's \"Madhyamika-karika\" targets Nyaya-sutra, among other Hindu texts, for his critique and to establish his doctrine of no self and voidness. In this text, and Vigrahavya-vartani, he presents his proof of voidness by challenging the \"Pramanas\" at the foundation of Nyaya-sutras. In his work \"Pramana-vihetana\", Nagarjuna, takes up each of the sixteen categories of knowledge in Gautama's Nyaya-sutras at the foundation of Nyaya's discussion of \"soul exists and the nature of soul in liberation process\", and critiques them using the argument that these categories are relational and therefore unreal. The Nagarjuna's texts, along with Gautama's Nyaya-sutras states Sanjit Sadhukhan, influenced Vatsyayana's work who called Nagarjuna's doctrine of voidness as flawed, and presented his arguments refuting Nagarjuna's theory on \"objects of knowledge are unreal, like a dream or a form of jugglery and a mirage\", but by first presenting his demonstration that the theory of reason and knowledge in the Nyaya-sutras are valid.\n\nThe Buddhist thesis that all things are negative in nature (inasmuch as a thing's nature is constituted by its differences from others) is rejected, as is the view that all things are eternal or that all things are noneternal. Both these latter views are untrue to experience.\n\nThe Nyayasutras were influential to the Vedanta schools of Hindu philosophy, and provided the epistemological foundations. The terms \"Nyaya\" and \"Mimamsa\" were synonymous, states Hajime Nakamura, in the earliest Dharmasutras of 1st millennium BCE. Over time, Nyaya, Mimamsa and Vedanta became three distinct and related schools.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1884120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884120", "title": "MoneyLion 300", "text": "MoneyLion 300\n\nThe MoneyLion 300 is a NASCAR Xfinity Series race held at Talladega Superspeedway, a 300 mile race, It is held annually before the NASCAR Cup Series race, the GEICO 500.\n\nFrom its inception in 1992 through 1996, the race was held in the summer, as a support race to the Alabama 500. When the DieHard 500 moved to the fall, this race moved to the spring, as a support race to the spring race, the GEICO 500.\n\nLarge wrecks involving 20 or more cars have occurred a number of times in the history of the event, most notably in 2002, when 30 cars were involved in an accident on the backstretch on lap 14, with 19 of them knocked out at that point. The remainder of the race, following a long red-flag period, had little resemblance to typical restrictor plate racing as only two cars were within short distance at the checkered flag and only three finished on the lead lap.\n\nAt its inception, the event debuted as a event, the longest race on the NASCAR Busch Series schedule. Automobile races in the United States measured in kilometers, especially those in NASCAR, are few. Through their history, ARCA races held at the track carried the more attractive and marketable \"500\" distance, even if it meant \"500 kilometers\" instead of miles (a custom also used at Riverside and Phoenix). The Busch Series race mimicked that precedent.\n\nIn 1998, fans complained about the use of kilometers, which was seen as a European custom. They argued that kilometers are rarely used in the United States, noting that the track measurement itself was still advertised in miles. Management changed the race to a event from 1998–2001. The change shortened the race distance by just four laps.\n\nIn 2002, Aaron's assumed title sponsorship and returned the race to a event. The race distance is only coincidental to that of 1992–1997. The distance, advertised unequivocally in miles this time, was set to reflect the sponsor's slogan (\"3 ways to buy, 12 reasons to shop at Aaron's\"). In 2015, the race returned to 300 miles.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1884122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884122", "title": "List of companies of Mali", "text": "List of companies of Mali\n\nMali is a landlocked country in West Africa. The country's economy centers on agriculture and fishing. Some of Mali's prominent natural resources include gold, being the third largest producer of gold in the African continent, and salt. About half the population lives below the international poverty line of $1.25 (U.S.) a day. \n\nThis list includes notable companies with primary headquarters located in the country. The industry and sector follow the Industry Classification Benchmark framework. Organizations which have ceased operations are included and noted as defunct.\n\n"}
{"id": "1884123", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884123", "title": "List of companies of Senegal", "text": "List of companies of Senegal\n\nSenegal is a country in West Africa. Senegal is bordered by Mauritania in the north, Mali to the east, Guinea to the southeast, and Guinea-Bissau to the southwest. Senegal also borders The Gambia, a country occupying a narrow sliver of land along the banks of the Gambia river, which separates Senegal's southern region of Casamance from the rest of the country. Senegal also shares a maritime border with Cape Verde. Senegal's economical and political capital is Dakar. It is the westernmost country in the mainland of the Old World, or Afro-Eurasia, and owes its name to the Senegal River, which borders it to the east and north.\n\nThe main industries include food processing, mining, cement, artificial fertilizer, chemicals, textiles, refining imported petroleum, and tourism. Exports include fish, chemicals, cotton, fabrics, groundnuts, and calcium phosphate. The principal foreign market is India at 26.7 percent of exports (as of 1998). Other foreign markets include the United States, Italy and the United Kingdom.\n\nThis list includes notable companies with primary headquarters located in the country. The industry and sector follow the Industry Classification Benchmark taxonomy. Organizations which have ceased operations are included and noted as defunct.\n"}
{"id": "1884127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884127", "title": "Jerry Richardson", "text": "Jerry Richardson\n\nJerome Johnson Richardson Sr. (born July 18, 1936) is an American businessman, public benefactor, former NFL player and former owner in the National Football League (NFL). He established the Carolina Panthers franchise, which he owned for 23 years.\n\nRichardson was born in Spring Hope, North Carolina. After completing high school in Fayetteville, North Carolina, he entered Wofford College, located in Spartanburg, South Carolina. Richardson was an Associated Press Little All-America selection in 1957 and '58. He still holds Wofford's single-game record with 241 receiving yards vs. Newberry in 1956 and is the record holder for touchdown receptions in a season (9 in 1958) and in a career (21). As a senior at Wofford, he scored 72 points on nine touchdowns, 12 extra points and two field goals. Richardson calls being elected team captain in 1958 his greatest honor. In 1983, he was chosen to Wofford's All-Time Football team as a receiver.\n\nRichardson was active in numerous groups on the Wofford campus; he was a member of Kappa Alpha Order fraternity, President of the Inter-Fraternity Council, and member of the SCA Cabinet. Honors he received while at Wofford included Distinguished Military Student, Scabbard and Blade Military Fraternity, Sigma Delta Psi, Blue Key National Honorary Fraternity, and recognition in \"Who's Who in American Universities and Colleges\".\n\nDrafted in the 13th round by the defending world champion Baltimore Colts, Richardson played two seasons in the NFL, earning Colt Rookie of the Year honors in 1959. He caught a touchdown pass in the 1959 NFL Championship Game from quarterback Johnny Unitas.\n\nFollowing his NFL career, Richardson used his 1959 NFL championship bonus with the help of Charles Bradshaw to open the first Hardee's franchise in Spartanburg. The two ended up owning the Hardee's business 50/50. The business expanded rapidly under his hands-on management style. From headquarters in Spartanburg, he co-founded Spartan Foods, which was the first franchisee of Hardee's. He later was the CEO of Flagstar, which was the sixth largest food service company in the United States, controlling 2,500 restaurants and providing jobs for 100,000 employees. He retired in 1995.\n\nOn October 26, 1993, Richardson became the first former NFL player since George Halas to become an owner when the Carolina Panthers were unanimously awarded the NFL's 29th franchise. The Panthers would not represent a city nor state but an entire region.\n\nRichardson was regarded as one of the most powerful NFL owners, alongside Jerry Jones and Robert Kraft of the Dallas Cowboys and New England Patriots, respectively. Richardson played a prominent role locking out the NFL players in 2011 and in negotiating a new players agreement.\n\nFor the most part, Richardson stayed in the background and rarely interfered in the Panthers' day-to-day operations. For instance, when he fired George Seifert after the 2001 season (in which the Panthers went 1-15), he went nine years before holding another press conference at which he took questions from the media—when he announced that John Fox's contract would not be renewed.\n\nOne of the few times in which he directly intervened in football matters came in the 2014–15 offseason, when he refused to re-sign player Greg Hardy in the wake of domestic violence charges. Despite requests from players and coaches to let Hardy have another chance, Richardson said that he made the decision not to do so because \"we do the right things.\"\n\nIt had long been presumed that Richardson intended to have his sons, Mark and Jon, inherit the team. However, both stepped aside before the 2009 season, and Jon died of cancer in 2013. On January 16, 2013, WBTV in Charlotte reported that Richardson wanted the team sold after he dies, but presumably only to someone who would keep the team and jobs in Charlotte.\n\nAfter the death of Buffalo Bills founder Ralph Wilson in 2014, Richardson was one of only two NFL owners (Houston Texans owner Robert C. McNair being the other) to have owned his respective team for its entire history. After both Richardson's sale of the Panthers and McNair's death in 2018, there remain no NFL owners who have owned their teams for their entire history.\n\nIn the 2015 season, Richardson's Panthers reached Super Bowl 50 on February 7, 2016, after losing only one game all season. The Panthers fell to the Denver Broncos by a score of 24–10. At the company's expense, the Panthers transported and housed a majority of their employees at the Super Bowl.\n\nAs Panthers majority owner, Richardson was said to be a \"champion of diversity\", with African-American Cam Newton as starting quarterback, Hispanic Ron Rivera as head coach, and former Carolina Topcats cheerleader Tina Becker as chief operating officer. However, Richardson's tenure was also controversial. On December 17, 2017, \"Sports Illustrated\" reported that \"at least four former Panthers employees have received ‘significant’ monetary settlements due to inappropriate workplace comments and conduct by owner Jerry Richardson, including sexually suggestive language and behavior, and on at least one occasion directing a racial slur at an African-American Panthers scout.\" According to the anonymous sources which were the basis for the article, Richardson asked women in the team offices to \"turn around so he could admire their backsides\" on Casual Friday, among other \"disturbing\" office behavior.\n\nOn the same day, it was announced that Richardson intended to sell the Panthers franchise at the conclusion of the 2017 season. After great interest from the market, in May 2018 Richardson finalized a sale to billionaire and then Pittsburgh Steelers minority owner David Tepper for an NFL record sales price of 2.2 billion dollars. The deal was approved by NFL owners on May 22, 2018. On June 28, 2018, Richardson was fined $2.75 million for the aforementioned alleged workplace misconduct.\n\nThe 13 foot statue of Richardson holding a football and flanked by two panthers remains at Bank of America Stadium; it was a gift from the Panthers LLC minority partners to Richardson for 80th birthday.\n\nRichardson was hospitalized in Charlotte at Carolinas Medical Center in early December 2008, one month after receiving a pacemaker. Richardson, who had a history of heart trouble and had undergone quadruple bypass surgery in 2002, was placed on a donor waiting list for a new heart two days later. He received a new heart on February 1, 2009, and has since recovered from the transplant.\n\nRichardson and businessman Hugh McColl purchased the naming rights to the University of North Carolina at Charlotte's football field in 2011. The stadium was named Jerry Richardson Stadium in 2013 after an additional $10 million donation. The future of the naming rights are now uncertain in the wake of the aforementioned sexual harassment allegations. \n\nIn 2000, Richardson was elected into the North Carolina Sports Hall of Fame. In 2006 and 2015, he was elected to the South Carolina Business and Sports Halls of Fame, respectively.\n\nIn 2016 he funded the Rosalind Sallenger Richardson Center for the Arts, in honor of his wife, on the Wofford College campus. In 2017, he funded Wofford's state-of-the-art Jerry Richardson Indoor Stadium.\n"}
{"id": "1884129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884129", "title": "Neptune Orbiter", "text": "Neptune Orbiter\n\nNeptune Orbiter was a proposed NASA unmanned planetary spacecraft to explore the planet Neptune. It was envisioned that it would be launched sometime around 2016 and take 8 to 12 years to reach the planet; however, NASA's website no longer lists any possible launch date. The Neptune Orbiter concept would have answered many questions about the nature of the planet.\n\nIts objective was to study Neptune's atmosphere and weather, its ring system, and its moons, particularly Triton. The California Institute of Technology proposed one mission plan in 2004, while the University of Idaho and Boeing proposed an alternative approach in 2005.\n\nNeptune Orbiter's primary mission was to go into orbit and perform scientific studies of the planet. The mission concept was first proposed to NASA in 2005. It was proposed to use a launch rocket similar to the Delta IV or Atlas V. The orbiter's trajectory was to use one Venus gravity assist, and a Jupiter gravity assist before arriving at Neptune. The length of time from launch until Neptune arrival was estimated to be 10.25 years.\n\nJust prior to arriving, the orbiter would release its two atmospheric probes, which would transmit data before aerocapture. Then, it would begin Neptune orbit insertion by aerocapture. After adjusting its orbit to its planned science orbit, the orbiter would carry out studies of Neptune, its rings, atmosphere, weather, and its natural satellites. The main phase of the science operations would have taken from 3 to 5 years with a possible extension lasting 3 more years.\n\nIn 2008, the mission was removed from NASA's possible future missions list. According to NASA's 2010 budget, funding to missions to the outer Solar System was aimed at the future Europa Jupiter System Mission. The remaining budget was allocated to ongoing undertakings such as \"Cassini–Huygens\", \"Juno\", and \"New Horizons\", with the Neptune system not being part of any official considerations.\n\nIn 2011, NASA's Decadal Survey considered a mission to an ice giant—either Uranus or Neptune—but for feasibility reasons recommended a Uranus orbiter and probe.\n\nIn 2019, a Neptune flyby proposal was made by the JPL under the name \"Trident\" for inclusion in the Discovery program.\n\nThe Caltech mission concept would have been similar in design to previous NASA outer Solar System missions. It would use radioisotope thermoelectric generators for electrical power. Based on this proposal, the spacecraft design would be similar to \"Galileo\", \"Cassini–Huygens\", \"Voyager 2\", and \"New Horizons\", with conventional thrusters for propulsion. Another proposal was to power the spacecraft with a nuclear-powered Stirling engine, which NASA were developing at that time and would be succeeded by the Kilopower study, together with ion propulsion.\n\nAnother proposal called for using solar panels to provide electrical power to the spacecraft. The panels would be inflatable, reducing their mass. Although advancements in solar panel technology means it should be possible to achieve sufficient power at the distance of Neptune, the high cost of providing the solar panels would possibly eliminate the idea of using solar cells. This design would presumably also use conventional thrusters, because the dim sunlight in the outer Solar System would probably be insufficient to power an ion propulsion system.\n\nThe orbiter would have carried out the main mission objectives. Some proposed instruments were a multispectral imaging system to image the planet from ultraviolet to infrared, and a magnetometer, to investigate why the Neptune's magnetic field is oriented so far from the planet's axis of rotation.\n\nNASA scientists and engineers have considered to send one or two mini-landers to Triton's surface and analyze the composition of the surface, the interior, and the very rarefied nitrogen atmosphere. Various landing sites were suggested, among those the area with Nitrogen geysers that had been discovered by the Voyager spacecraft, but other locations were also proposed such as either the north or south poles of Triton. No final decision were however made since this were only a proposed mission. The landers' operational lifetime could have been anything between days to a month depending on power source and instrumentation.\n\nAlong with Triton landers, at least two atmospheric probes were proposed to descend through Neptune's atmosphere and study the climate and weather of the stormy planet. Similar to the Galileo probe that descended into Jupiter's atmosphere, the descent of a probe into the atmosphere of Neptune would take about 2–3 hours until the planet's atmospheric heat and pressure would destroy it – the data transmitted during the descent would allow a detailed analysis of Neptune's atmosphere.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1884136", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884136", "title": "City of Port Lincoln", "text": "City of Port Lincoln\n\nThe City of Port Lincoln is a local government area located on the southern tip of the Eyre Peninsula in South Australia. It consists of one suburb - Port Lincoln. It is surrounded on land by the District Council of Lower Eyre Peninsula, which also has offices in Port Lincoln.\n\nThe area was discovered and mapped by Matthew Flinders in 1802, who named the body of water \"Port Lincoln\" after his home county of Lincolnshire in England.\n\nThe first white settlers in the area arrived in 1839, travelling from Port Adelaide on the \"Abeona\". The settlement at Port Lincoln grew from 150 in the immediate aftermath of their arrival to 270 by 1840, and on 29 June 1839, Port Lincoln was designated as an official port for trade. The town experienced strong development, and by 1936 was regarded as \"the principal seaport town of the Eyre Peninsula, as well as being a \"favourite holiday resort\" with sea connections from Port Adelaide.\n\nThe district first gained local government in 1880, when the District Council of Lincoln was created for the Port Lincoln area, holding its first meeting in the Pier Hotel in July. It was variously referred to in period newspapers as either the \"Port Lincoln\" or \"Lincoln\" council, but the landmark \"District Councils Act 1887\", which undertook a major reorganisation of South Australian local government, referred to it as the District Council of Lincoln.\n\nThe City of Port Lincoln municipality was created when the town of Port Lincoln incorporated and seceded from the district council in 1921, becoming the Corporate Town of Port Lincoln. It gained its present name when it was granted city status on 21 January 1971. The former District Council of Lincoln was renamed the District Council of Lower Eyre Peninsula in 1988, and continues to serve the rural areas surrounding Port Lincoln.\n\nThe boundaries of the City of Port Lincoln are almost contiguous with the town of Port Lincoln itself; a small portion of western Port Lincoln falls into the District Council of Lower Eyre Peninsula, while a very small section of adjacent Boston falls within the Port Lincoln municipality.\n\nThe City of Port Lincoln has a directly-elected mayor.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1884145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884145", "title": "Robert Heyssel", "text": "Robert Heyssel\n\nRobert Morris Heyssel, Sr. (June 19, 1928 – June 13, 2001) was President of Johns Hopkins Hospital from 1982 to 1992. \n\nBorn in Jamestown, Missouri, Heyssel received his B.S. from the University of Missouri and his M.D. from Saint Louis University. After serving with the United States Public Health Service in Hiroshima and Nagasaki, Japan between 1956 and 1958, he returned to the United States as a fellow in hematology at Washington University in St. Louis.\n\nHeyssel moved to Johns Hopkins in 1968, taking up the position of Associate Dean of the School of Medicine, and was named President in 1982. During his presidency he oversaw an ambitious program of building and redevelopment, and his role in this project is commemorated at the Johns Hopkins Outpatient Center, whose outpatient center building is named in his memory. In addition to expanding the hospital throughout his career, Heyssel also created the Johns Hopkins Health Plan, which shifted the status of care in the hospital to managed care, creating thousands of jobs in the process. Under his presidency, several failing Baltimore hospitals came into the possession of Johns Hopkins, all of which were eventually renovated and combined to form the Bayview Medical Center. \n\nHeyssel died from lung cancer in 2001 at the age of 72.\n\n"}
{"id": "1884146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884146", "title": "Adelaide del Vasto", "text": "Adelaide del Vasto\n\nAdelaide del Vasto (Adelasia, Azalaïs) ( – 16 April 1118) was countess of Sicily as the third spouse of Roger I of Sicily, and Queen consort of Jerusalem by marriage to Baldwin I of Jerusalem. She served as regent of Sicily during the minority of her son Roger II of Sicily from 1101 until 1112.\n\nShe was the daughter of Manfred del Vasto (brother of Boniface del Vasto, marquess of Western Liguria, and Anselm del Vasto). Her uncle held much political clout in the region of Liguria–a document relating the deeds of Roger I described him as “that most renowned marquis of Italy.” Her father's family was of Frankish descent of a branch of the Aleramici, sharing a common descent from Aleramo of Montferrat with the Marquesses of Montferrat. Her brothers founded the lines of the Marquesses of Saluzzo, of Busca, of Lancia, of Ceva, and of Savona.\n\nHer paternal grandparents were Teto II del Vasto, and his wife Bertha of Turin, daughter of margrave Ulric Manfred II of Turin.\n\nIn 1089, Adelaide married Roger I while her sister married Roger's illegitimate son Jordan. Roger I died in 1101, and Adelaide ruled as regent of Sicily for her young sons Simon and Roger II. Adelaide herself was quite young when she became regent; she was only about 26 years old at the time. During her tenure, the emir Christodulus rose to preeminence at the court and Palermo was settled as the capital of the realm.\n\nAlmost immediately after Adelaide assumed the position of regent, rebellions broke out in parts of Calabria and Sicily. The writings of the Norman monk Orderic Vitalis recount that Adelaide put an end to these episodes of insurgency with severity. The use of great force in suppressing such rebellions, however, did not tarnish her reputation as a ruler. In fact, Abbot Alexander of Telese's history of Roger I describes Adelaide as “a most prudent woman, [she] exercised the cares of the government and ruled over the county.” A Greek and Arab charter from 1109 describes Adelaide as “the great female ruler, the malikah of Sicily and Calabria, the protector of the Christian faith.” \n\nAdelaide's older son, Simon, was enthroned when he reached the appropriate age (around 8 or 9 years old) but died in 1105, leaving Adelaide regent again until Roger II reached his majority in 1112. Adelaide's second son, Roger II, took control over control of the kingdom in 1112, but there is evidence that Adelaide continued to play a central role in the governing of the island as her signature can still be seen on official documents even after 1112.\n\nAdelaide, and Roger II after her, chose to rule with the help of local officials, rather than importing a retinue of foreign advisors recognizing the great advantage in their familiarity with the island, its people and its cultures. Similarly, she was careful to donate generously to the local Greek monasteries on Sicily as a way of currying favor with the pre-existing religious authorities.\n\nEither through her influence or under her regency, her brother Henry del Vasto was granted Paternò and Butera. Henry (Enrico) was married to Flandina daughter of Count Roger I. of Calabria and Sicily.\n\nMeanwhile, in Jerusalem, after the death of Baldwin's first wife Godehilde during the First Crusade, Baldwin married an Armenian noblewoman traditionally known as Arda. Arda was useful in an alliance with the Armenians while Baldwin was Count of Edessa, but when he became King of Jerusalem in 1100 he seemed to have little use for an Armenian wife, and Arda was forced into a convent around 1105.\n\nIn 1112 a new marriage was sought for the king. Arnulf of Chocques, Latin Patriarch of Jerusalem, suggested that Baldwin marry Adelaide, as Roger II was now old enough to rule Sicily alone. Baldwin sent ambassadors to Sicily, and somewhat hastily agreed to any terms which Adelaide might have; Adelaide demanded that their son, should they have one, inherit Jerusalem, and if they had no children, the kingdom would pass to her own son Roger II. Adelaide brought with her an enormous amount of badly needed money, as well as some Muslim archers and a thousand other Sicilian soldiers.\n\nAdelaide was already well into middle age and no new heir was immediately forthcoming. The king was blamed for a bigamous marriage (as Arda was still alive) and the Patriarch Arnulf was deposed. Pope Paschal II agreed to reinstate him in 1116, provided that he annul the marriage between Baldwin and Adelaide. Baldwin agreed, after falling ill and assuming that renouncing his sin of bigamy would cure him. In 1117 the annulment was performed at Acre, and Adelaide sailed back to Sicily.\n\nAdelaide died on 16 April 1118 and was buried in Patti. Roger II was outraged at the treatment of his mother and never forgave the Kingdom of Jerusalem. Almost thirty years later, Roger still refused to give assistance to the Crusader states during the Second Crusade. William of Tyre wrote of the impact of the incident: “Adelaide’s son was angered beyond measure, because she had been sent back. He conceived a mortal hatred against the kingdom and its people. Other Christian princes in various parts of the world, either by coming in person or by giving liberal gifts, have amplified our infant realm. But he and his heirs at the present time have never become reconciled to us to the extent of a single friend word. Although they could have relieved our necessities by council and aid far more easily than other prince, yet they have always remembered their wrongs and have unjustly avenged upon the whole people the fault of a single individual.” \n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "1884172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884172", "title": "Robert Gordon", "text": "Robert Gordon\n\nRobert Gordon may refer to:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1884173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884173", "title": "Pulp (1972 film)", "text": "Pulp (1972 film)\n\nPulp is a 1972 British comedy thriller film, directed by Mike Hodges and starring Michael Caine as Mickey King, a writer of cheap paperback detective novels. The film features the final screen appearance of Lizabeth Scott.\n\n“Pulp”, originally titled “Memoirs Of A Ghost Writer“ was almost entirely shot on the island of Malta. Facilities were provided by the then Malta Film Facilities and Intermed Sound Studio, later known as Britannia Film Sound Studios.\n\nWriter Mickey King lives in Rome churning out a string of violent, sexually charged hardboiled pulp fiction novels under an array of lewd pen names like \"S. Odomy\".\n\nKing is offered an abnormally large sum to ghostwrite the autobiography of a mystery celebrity. The intrigued King agrees and is transported to a remote island, during which time he will make contact with a representative for the celebrity. King meets a man named Miller, who identifies himself as an English professor. King assumes Miller is the mysterious contact—until discovering Miller dead in his bathtub after a hotel room mix-up.\n\nFinally arriving on the island, King meets his subject: Preston Gilbert. A retired movie star, Gilbert is known for portraying gangsters and notorious for hanging out with real-life mobsters off the set. Now suffering from cancer, the pompous, vain Gilbert wants King to immortalize his life story before he dies.\n\nGilbert is planning a fancy birthday celebration. Among the attendees is Princess Betty Cippola, a man-hungry social climber who seems to have a sordid history with Gilbert. However, after the party is underway and Gilbert has staged a practical joke, Miller returns, now dressed as a Catholic priest. Sensing danger, King flees as Miller opens fire, killing Gilbert. The partygoers assume it's another prank, and applaud as Gilbert dies.\n\nGilbert's death leaves King with no conclusion to his tale. Playing detective like the heroes of his stories, King pieces together the mystery. He learns that Gilbert's proposed autobiography has alarmed several of the actor's erstwhile associates, who worry their schemes and crimes might be exposed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1884175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884175", "title": "Langmuir–Blodgett trough", "text": "Langmuir–Blodgett trough\n\nA Langmuir–Blodgett trough (LB trough) is a laboratory apparatus that is used to compress monolayers of molecules on the surface of a given subphase (usually water) and measures surface phenomena due to this compression. It can also be used to deposit single or multiple monolayers on a solid substrate.\n\nThe idea of a Langmuir–Blodgett (LB) film was first proven feasible in 1917 when Irving Langmuir (Langmuir, 1917) showed that single water-surface monolayers could be transferred to solid substrates. 18 years later, Katharine Blodgett made an important scientific advance when she discovered that several of these single monolayer films could be stacked on top of one another to make multilayer films (Blodgett 1935). Since then, LB films (and subsequently the troughs to make them) have been used for a wide variety of scientific experimentation, ranging from 2D crystallization of proteins to Brewster angle microscopy. The LB trough's general objective is to study the properties of monolayers of amphiphilic molecules. An amphiphilic molecule is one that contains both a hydrophobic and hydrophilic domain (e.g. soaps and detergents). The LB trough allows investigators to prepare a monolayer of amphiphilic molecules on the surface of a liquid, and then compress or expand these molecules on the surface, thereby modifying the molecular density, or area per molecule. This is accomplished by placing a subphase (usually water) in a trough, spreading a given amphiphile over the surface, and then compressing the surface with barriers (see illustration). The monolayer's effect on the surface pressure of the liquid is measured through use of a Wilhelmy plate, electronic wire probes, or other types of detectors. An LB film can then be transferred to a solid substrate by dipping the substrate through the monolayer.\n\nIn addition to amphiphilic materials, Langmuir-Blodgett Troughs are commonly used nowadays to create nanoparticle coatings with controlled packing density.\n\nIn early experiments, the trough was first constructed from metals such as brass. However difficulties arose with contamination of the sub-phase by metal ions. To combat this, glass troughs were used for a time, with a wax coating to prevent contamination from glass pores. This was eventually abandoned in favor of plastics that were insoluble in ordinary solvents, such as Teflon (polytetrafluoroethylene). Teflon is hydrophobic and chemically inert, making it a highly suitable material, and the most commonly used for troughs today. Occasionally metal or glass troughs coated with a thin layer of Teflon are used; however they are not as enduring as solid PTFE troughs.\n\nIn the case of liquid-liquid experiments where the compression is performed at the interface of a polar liquid such as water and a dispersive liquid such as oil, the trough is commonly manufactured from POM (polyoxymethylene). POM is more hydrophilic and aids in keeping the liquid-liquid interphase stable.\n\nDifferent mechanisms have been used to compress or expand the monolayers throughout the development of the LB trough. In their first experiments, Langmuir and Blodgett used flexible silk threads rubbed with wax to enclose and compress the monolayer film. Most commonly used systems are made of movable barriers that slide parallel to the walls of the trough and are in contact with the top of the fluid. These barriers are typically made from hydrophilic POM to form a meniscus on them that will aid in keeping the molecules inside even in high packing densities. PTFE barriers are also available for instances when additional chemical resistance is needed.\n\nAnother version with a variable perimeter working zone is the circular trough in which the monolayer is located between two radial barriers. A constant perimeter trough was developed later in which the barrier is a flexible Teflon tape wrapped around three pairs of rollers. One of the pairs is fixed and the other two are movable on trolleys, so that the length of the tape remains constant as the area of the working zone is changed.\n\nSpecial Alternate troughs allow for preparation and deposition of alternating monolayers by having two separate working zones that can be compressed independently or synchronously by the barriers.\n\nAn important property of the system is its surface pressure (the surface tension of the pure subphase minus the surface tension of the subphase with amphiphiles floating on surface) which varies with the molecular area. The surface pressure – molecular area isotherm is one of the important indicators of monolayer properties. Additionally, it is important to maintain constant surface pressure during deposition in order to obtain uniform LB films. Measurement of surface pressure can be done by means of a Wilhelmy plate or Langmuir balance.\n\nThe Wilhelmy method consists of a plate partially immersed in the liquid connected to an electronic linear-displacement sensor, or electrobalance. The plate can be made of platinum or filter paper which has been presoaked in the liquid to maintain constant mass. The plate detects the downward force exerted by the liquid meniscus which wets the plate. The surface tension can then be calculated by the following equation:\n\nwhere\n\nThe weight of the plate can be determined beforehand and set to zero on the electrobalance, while the effect of buoyancy can be removed by extrapolating the force back to the zero depth of immersion. Then the remaining component force is only the wetting force. Assuming that perfect wetting of the plate occurs (θ = 0, cos(θ) = 1), then the surface tension can be calculated.\n\nThe surface pressure is then the change in surface tension due to the addition of the monolayer \n\nWhere\n\nIn Langmuir's method, the surface pressure is measured as the force exerted directly on a moveable barrier.\n\nOne of the first scientists to describe and attempt to quantify the spreading of monolayer films on the surface of a liquid was Benjamin Franklin. Franklin described the spreading of a drop of oil onto the surface of a lake to form a surface of defined area. In addition he did experiments dropping oil onto the surface of a bowl of water and noted that the spreading action was dependent on the surface area of the liquid, i.e. by increasing the surface of the liquid it will take more drops to create a film on the surface. Franklin suggested that this spreading action was based on repulsive forces between oil molecules.\nMuch later this work was continued by Lord Rayleigh, who suggested that the spreading of oil on water resulted in a monolayer of oil molecules.\n\nA German woman and independent scientist, Agnes Pockels, wrote to Lord Rayleigh shortly after his publication in 1890. In this letter she described an apparatus she had designed to measure the surface tension of monolayers of hydrophobic and amphiphillic substances. This simple device was a trough made from a tin pan with tin inserts for determining the size of the surface and a balance with a 6 mm disk on one end to measure the force required to pull the disk from the surface. Using this device she described the general behavior of surface tension with varying surface concentrations of oil.\n\nPockels continued her work and in 1892 published a paper in which she calculated the amount of several materials (mostly household oils) required to form a monolayer. In addition she comments on the purity and cleanliness required to accurately perform measurements of surface tension. Also in this paper she reports values of the thickness of films of various amphiphillic substances on the surface of water.\n\nIn a later paper Pockels examined the effects of different ratios of hydrophobic to amphiphilic molecules on surface tension and monolayer formation.\nAfter the turn of the century, Pockels's trough was improved upon by Irving Langmuir. With this new device Langmuir showed that amphiphillic films are truly monolayers, and these monolayers are oriented on the surface such that the \"active or most hydrophilic portion of the surface molecules are in contact with the liquid below whereas the hydrophobic portions of the molecules are pointing up toward the air\". William Harkins described similar results at the same time. Shortly after Langmuir described the transfer of amphiphilic films from water surfaces to solid surfaces (Langmuir, 1920). Langmuir won the Nobel prize in chemistry for this work in 1932.\n\nNeil Kensington Adam summarized and expanded on the work of Langmuir in a series of several papers published in Proceedings of the Royal Society of London from 1921 to 1926.\nKatherine Blodgett was a student of Irving Langmuir and in 1935 she described the deposition of hundreds of layers of amphiphilic molecules onto a solid substrate in a very ordered fashion. She made final developments to the Langmuir–Blodgett trough allowing it to be used to easily transfer films to solid surfaces.\nAfter the work of Blodgett the field was relatively inactive for several years until in 1971 Hans Kuhn began performing optical and photoelectric experiments with monolayer assemblies using the methods of Langmuir and Blodgett.\n\nAny type of surface experiment requires maximal cleanliness and purity of components. Even small contaminations can have substantial effects on results. If an aqueous subphase is used, the water must be purified to remove organics and deionized to a resistivity not less than 1.8 GΩ-m. Impurities as small as 1ppm can radically change the behavior of a monolayer. To eliminate contamination from the air, the LB trough can be enclosed in a clean room. The trough set-up may also be mounted on a vibration isolation table, to further stabilize the monolayer. The exact calibration of the electrobalance is also very important for force measurements, as well as using a Wilhelmy plate as big as possible to improve the signal-to-noise ratio.\n\nExperimental preparation requires that the trough and barriers be thoroughly cleaned by a solvent such as ethanol to remove any residual organics. The liquid subphase is added to a height such that the meniscus just touches the barriers. Often it is necessary to aspirate the surface of the liquid in order to remove any last remaining impurities. The amphiphilic molecules dissolved in solvent are slowly dropped onto the liquid surface using a microsyringe, with care being taken to spread it uniformly across the surface. Some time must be taken to allow for evaporation of the solvent, and the spreading of the amphiphile. The Wilhelmy plate to be used must be absolutely clean. A platinum plate must stripped of any organics with a solvent or heated by a flame. The Wilhelmy plate is then mounted on the electrobalance such that it is immersed perpendicular to the surface of the liquid and a uniform meniscus is achieved. Disposable paper plates can also be used.\n\nThe transfer of a monolayer to a substrate is a delicate process dependent on many factors. These include the direction and speed of the substrate, the surface pressure, composition, temperature, and pH of the subphase. Many different transfer methods have been devised and patented. One method involves a dipping arm which holds the substrate and can be programmed to pass through the interface from top to bottom or bottom to top at a set speed. For dipping starting from below the liquid surface, the substrate should by hydrophilic, and for dipping starting above the liquid surface, the substrate should be hydrophobic. Multilayers can be achieved by successive dipping through alternating monolayers.\n\nThe LB trough has myriad uses, but generally takes on one of two roles. First (as described above), the trough can be used to deposit one or more monolayers of specific amphiphiles onto solid substrates. They are in turn used for different areas of science ranging from optics to rheology. For example, through devices fabricated from an LB trough Lee et al. showed in 2006 that direct electron tunneling was the mode of transportation in alkanethiol self-assembled monolayers \n\nLangmuir-Blodgett Troughs have unique advantages in nanoparticle deposition, making them capable of creating highly sophisticated coatings with nanoparticles. Some of the advantages include a precise control on the packing density of the molecules and the thickness of the deposited layer. Also LB method is flexible in using different geometries of substrates and different nanoparticle materials.\n\nSecondly, the LB trough can be used itself as an experimental device to test interfacial properties such as the surface tension of various fluids, as well as the surface pressure of a given system. The system can also be used as an observation mechanism to watch how drugs interact with lipids, or to see how lipids arrange themselves as the number to area ratios are varied.\n\nLangmuir–Blodgett troughs can be used for experiments in the fabrication of Langmuir–Blodgett films and the characterization of Langmuir films. LB films are now used as the building blocks of molecular electronics. Troughs can be used to make films for the fabrication of nanoscale electronics such as graphene sheets (Li et al., 2008), and LCDs (Russell-Tanner, Takayama, Sugimura, DeSimone & Samulski, 2007). In addition films can be made of biological materials (Yang et al., 2002) to improve cell adhesion or study the properties of biofilms. An example of Langmuir–Blodgett troughs' utility in characterizing Langmuir films is the analysis of surface properties of quantum dots at the air-water interface.\n\nSurface of water has an immensely smooth nature that could be extended as large as the size of its container. The root-mean-square (RMS) roughness of water is 3.2 Å, as measured by X-ray reflectivity. This feature makes Langmuir troughs a suitable candidate for synthesis and characterization of covalent monolayer sheets and even 2D polymers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1884183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884183", "title": "Sean Carton", "text": "Sean Carton\n\nSean Carton is the Chief Strategist for idfive, LLC, a full-service agency located in Baltimore, Maryland. \n\nPreviously, he headed the Center for Digital Communication, Culture, and Commerce at the University of Baltimore. Sean was the founder of one of Baltimore's first digital agencies, web development company Carton Donofrio Interactive, and the former Dean of the School of Design and Media at Philadelphia University. \n\nHe is the author of numerous books about the Internet and video games. \n\nCarton coined the term egosurfing in the late nineties.\n"}
{"id": "1884184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884184", "title": "Francine", "text": "Francine\n\nFrancine is a female given name. The name is of French origin. The name Francine was most popular in France itself during the 1940s (Besnard & Desplanques 2003), and was well used in the United States during the 1940s and 1950s (Evans 2006). Short forms are Frannie, Frans and Fran.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1884188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884188", "title": "Shulba Sutras", "text": "Shulba Sutras\n\nThe Shulba Sutras or Śulbasūtras (Sanskrit \"\": \"string, cord, rope\") are sutra texts belonging to the Śrauta ritual and containing geometry related to fire-altar construction.\n\nThe Shulba Sutras are part of the larger corpus of texts called the Shrauta Sutras, considered to be appendices to the Vedas. They are the only sources of knowledge of Indian mathematics from the Vedic period. Unique fire-altar shapes were associated with unique gifts from the Gods. For instance, \"he who desires heaven is to construct a fire-altar in the form of a falcon\"; \"a fire-altar in the form of a tortoise is to be constructed by one desiring to win the world of Brahman\" and \"those who wish to destroy existing and future enemies should construct a fire-altar in the form of a rhombus\".\n\nThe four major Shulba Sutras, which are mathematically the most significant, are those attributed to Baudhayana, Manava, Apastamba and Katyayana. Their language is late Vedic Sanskrit, pointing to a composition roughly during the 1st millennium BCE. The oldest is the sutra attributed to Baudhayana, possibly compiled around 800 BCE to 500 BCE. Pingree says that the Apastamba is likely the next oldest; he places the Katyayana and the Manava third and fourth chronologically, on the basis of apparent borrowings. According to Plofker, the Katyayana was composed after \"the great grammatical codification of Sanskrit by Pāṇini in probably the mid-fourth century BCE\", but she places the Manava in the same period as the Baudhayana.\n\nWith regard to the composition of Vedic texts, Plofker writes,The Vedic veneration of Sanskrit as a sacred speech, whose divinely revealed texts were meant to be recited, heard, and memorized rather than transmitted in writing, helped shape Sanskrit literature in general. … Thus texts were composed in formats that could be easily memorized: either condensed prose aphorisms (\"sūtras,\" a word later applied to mean a rule or algorithm in general) or verse, particularly in the Classical period. Naturally, ease of memorization sometimes interfered with ease of comprehension. As a result, most treatises were supplemented by one or more prose commentaries …\" There are multiple commentaries for each of the Shulba Sutras, but these were written long after the original works. The commentary of Sundararāja on the Apastamba, for example, comes from the late 15th century CE and the commentary of Dvārakãnātha on the Baudhayana appears to borrow from Sundararāja. According to Staal, certain aspects of the tradition described in the Shulba Sutras would have been \"transmitted orally\", and he points to places in southern India where the fire-altar ritual is still practiced and an oral tradition preserved. The fire-altar tradition largely died out in India, however, and Plofker warns that those pockets where the practice remains may reflect a later Vedic revival rather than an unbroken tradition. Archaeological evidence of the altar constructions described in the Shulba Sutras is sparse. A large falcon-shaped fire altar (\"śyenaciti\"), dating to the second century BCE, was found in the excavations by G. R. Sharma at Kausambi, but this altar does not conform to the dimensions prescribed by the Shulba Sutras.\n\nThe content of the Shulba Sutras is likely older than the works themselves. The \"Satapatha Brahmana\" and the \"Taittiriya Samhita\", whose contents date to the late second millennium or early first millennium BCE, describe altars whose dimensions appear to be based on the right triangle with legs of 15 \"pada\" and 36 \"pada\", one of the triangles listed in the Baudhayana Shulba Sutra.\n\nSeveral Mathematicians and Historians mention that the earliest of the texts were written beginning in 800 BCE by Vedic Hindus based on compilations of an oral tradition dating back to 2000 BCE. It is possible, as proposed by Gupta, that the geometry was developed to meet the needs of ritual. Some scholars go farther: Staal hypothesizes a common ritual origin for Indian and Greek geometry, citing similar interest and approach to doubling and other geometric transformation problems. Seidenberg, followed by van der Waerden, sees a ritual origin for mathematics more broadly, postulating that the major advances, such as discovery of the Pythagorean theorem, occurred in only one place, and diffused from there to the rest of the world. Van der Waerden mentions that author of Sulbha sutras existed before 600 BCE and could not have been influenced by Greek geometry. While Boyer mentions Old Babylonian mathematics (c. 2000 BCE–1600 BCE) as a possible origin, however also states that Shulba sutras contain a formula not found in Babylon sources. KS Krishnan mentions that Shulba sutras predates Mesopotamian Pythagoras triples. Seidenberg argues that either \"Old Babylonia got the theorem of Pythagoras from India or that Old Babylonia and India got it from a third source\". Seidenberg suggests that this source might be Sumerian and may predate 1700 BC. In contrast, Pingree cautions that \"it would be a mistake to see in [the altar builders'] works the unique origin of geometry; others in India and elsewhere, whether in response to practical or theoretical problems, may well have advanced as far without their solutions having been committed to memory or eventually transcribed in manuscripts.\" Plofker also raises the possibility that \"existing geometric knowledge [was] consciously incorporated into ritual practice\".\n\n\nThe sutras contain statements of the Pythagorean theorem, both in the case of an isosceles right triangle and in the general case, as well as lists of Pythagorean triples.\nIn Baudhayana, for example, the rules are given as follows:\n1.9. The diagonal of a square produces double the area [of the square].<BR>[...]<BR> 1.12. The areas [of the squares] produced separately by the lengths of the breadth of a rectangle together equal the area [of the square] produced by the diagonal.<BR>1.13. This is observed in rectangles having sides 3 and 4, 12 and 5, 15 and 8, 7 and 24, 12 and 35, 15 and 36.\nSimilarly, Apastamba's rules for constructing right angles in fire-altars use the following Pythagorean triples:\n\nIn addition, the sutras describe procedures for constructing a square with area equal either to the sum or to the difference of two given squares. Both constructions proceed by letting the largest of the squares be the square on the diagonal of a rectangle, and letting the two smaller squares be the squares on the sides of that rectangle. The assertion that each procedure produces a square of the desired area is equivalent to the statement of the Pythagorean theorem. Another construction produces a square with area equal to that of a given rectangle. The procedure is to cut a rectangular piece from the end of the rectangle and to paste it to the side so as to form a gnomon of area equal to the original rectangle. Since a gnomon is the difference of two squares, the problem can be completed using one of the previous constructions.\n\nThe \"Baudhayana Shulba sutra\" gives the construction of geometric shapes such as squares and rectangles. It also gives, sometimes approximate, geometric area-preserving transformations from one geometric shape to another. These include transforming a square into a rectangle, an isosceles trapezium, an isosceles triangle, a rhombus, and a circle, and transforming a circle into a square.\nIn these texts approximations, such as the transformation of a circle into a square, appear side by side with more accurate statements. As an example, the statement of circling the square is given in Baudhayana as:\n2.9. If it is desired to transform a square into a circle, [a cord of length] half the diagonal [of the square] is stretched from the centre to the east [a part of it lying outside the eastern side of the square]; with one-third [of the part lying outside] added to the remainder [of the half diagonal], the [required] circle is drawn.\nand the statement of squaring the circle is given as:\n2.10. To transform a circle into a square, the diameter is divided into eight parts; one [such] part after being divided into twenty-nine parts is reduced by twenty-eight of them and further by the sixth [of the part left] less the eighth [of the sixth part].<BR>2.11. Alternatively, divide [the diameter] into fifteen parts and reduce it by two of them; this gives the approximate side of the square [desired].\n\nThe constructions in 2.9 and 2.10 give a value of π as 3.088, while the construction in 2.11 gives π as 3.004.\n\nAltar construction also led to an estimation of the square root of 2 as found in three of the sutras. In the Baudhayana sutra it appears as:\n2.12. The measure is to be increased by its third and this [third] again by its own fourth less the thirty-fourth part [of that fourth]; this is [the value of] the diagonal of a square [whose side is the measure].\nwhich leads to the value of the square root of two as being:\n\nIndeed, an early method for calculating square roots can be found in some Sutras, the method involves the recursive formula: formula_6 for large values of x, which bases itself on the non-recursive identity formula_7 for values of \"r\" extremely small relative to \"a\".\n\nIt has also been suggested, for example by Bürk that this approximation of √2 implies knowledge that √2 is irrational. In his translation of Euclid's \"Elements\", Heath outlines a number of milestones necessary for irrationality to be considered to have been discovered, and points out the lack of evidence that Indian mathematics had achieved those milestones in the era of the Shulba Sutras.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1884191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884191", "title": "Pugas", "text": "Pugas\n\nPUGAS (Purdue University Getaway Special) was a student run experiment package that flew on NASA's STS-7 Space Shuttle Mission aboard the Space Shuttle \"Challenger\" launched 18 June 1983.\n\nThe official designation was G-009: Purdue University – Geotropism, Fluid Dynamics and Nuclear Particle Velocity. The Payload Manager was Dr. John T. Snow. The NASA Technical Manager was Richard Palace.\n\nThe device was designed to conduct three experiments, two of which failed. The first failed one was intended to test seed growth in microgravity in an unconventional way—by germinating seeds on a spinning disc. The degree of artificial gravity on the spinning wheel is highest (0.25 \"g\" or 2.5 m/s²) at its rim and lowest at its center. Using this fact, the influence of different levels of gravity on seed germination could be determined by placing seeds at different radial locations on the disk. At the end of the mission, the growth was to be arrested. After return the orientation of the roots were to be used to determine the threshold of gravity at which a plant could determine which way was down. A second failed experiment on fluid dynamics was intended to measure the bulk oscillations of a drop of mercury immersed in a clear liquid. A short circuit prevented the seed and mercury drop experiments from functioning.\n\nThe payload also included a nuclear particle detection experiment. This experiment was a success; it traced and recorded the paths of nuclear particles encountered in the near-Earth space environment.\n\nPurdue's Schools of Science, Engineering, and Agriculture developed the flight hardware for the project, with the U.S. Navy providing access to the necessary test facilities at the Naval Surface Warfare Center Crane Division.\n\nThe experiment hardware is currently on display in the lobby of the A.A. Potter Engineering Center on the West Lafayette, Indiana campus of Purdue University.\n\n"}
{"id": "1884200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884200", "title": "Lucien Goldmann", "text": "Lucien Goldmann\n\nLucien Goldmann (; July 20, 1913 – October 8, 1970) was a French philosopher and sociologist of Jewish-Romanian origin. A professor at the EHESS in Paris, he was a Marxist theorist.\n\nGoldmann was born in Bucharest, Romania, but grew up in Botoşani.\n\nHe studied law at the University of Bucharest and the University of Vienna under the Austromarxist jurist Max Adler. In 1934, he went to the University of Paris to study political economy, literature, and philosophy. He moved to Switzerland in November 1942, where he was placed in a refugee camp until 1943. Through Jean Piaget's intervention, he was subsequently given a scholarship to the University of Zurich, where he completed his PhD in philosophy in 1945 with a thesis entitled \"Mensch, Gemeinschaft und Welt in der Philosophie Immanuel Kants\" (\"Man, Community and world in the Philosophy of Immanuel Kant\").\n\nWhile many Parisian leftists staunchly upheld Marxism's \"scientificity\" in the 1950s and 1960s, Lucien Goldmann insisted that Marxism was by then in severe crisis and had to reinvent itself radically if it were to survive. He rejected the traditional Marxist view of the proletariat and contested the structural Marxist movement. In fact, the popularity of such trends on the Left Bank was one reason why Goldmann's own name and work were eclipsed — this despite the acclaim of thinkers as diverse as Jean Piaget and Alasdair MacIntyre, who called him \"the finest and most intelligent Marxist of the age.\"\n\nHe refused to portray his aspirations for humanity's future as an inexorable unfolding of history's laws, but saw them rather as a wager akin to Blaise Pascal's in the existence of God. \"Risk\", Goldmann wrote in his classic study of Pascal's \"Pensées\" and Jean Racine's Phèdre, \"is possibility of failure, hope of success, and the synthesis of the three in a faith which is a wager are the essential constituent elements of the human condition\". He called his work \"dialectical\" and \"humanist.\"\n\nHe sought to synthesize the genetic epistemology of Piaget with the Marxism of György Lukács; he was the founder of the theory of genetic structuralism which he developed in the 1960s.\n\nLucien Goldmann was a humanist socialist, disciple of György Lukács, his sociology of literature in an important critic of structuralism.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1884226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884226", "title": "Spectrofluorometer", "text": "Spectrofluorometer\n\nA spectrofluorometer is an instrument which takes advantage of fluorescent properties of some compounds in order to provide information regarding their concentration and chemical environment in a sample. A certain excitation wavelength is selected, and the emission is observed either at a single wavelength, or a scan is performed to record the intensity versus wavelength, also called an emission spectrum. The instrument is used in fluorescence spectroscopy.\n\nGenerally, spectrofluorometers use high intensity light sources to bombard a sample with as many photons as possible. This allows for the maximum number of molecules to be in an excited state at any one point in time. The light is either passed through a filter, selecting a fixed wavelength, or a monochromator, which allows a wavelength of interest to be selected for use as the exciting light. The emission is collected at the perpendicular to the emitted light. The emission is also either passed through a filter or a monochromator before being detected by a photomultiplier tube, photodiode, or charge-coupled device detector. The signal can either be processed as digital or analog output.\n\nSystems vary greatly and a number of considerations affect the choice. The first is the signal-to-noise ratio. There are many ways to look at the signal to noise of a given system but the accepted standard is by using the Raman signal of water. Sensitivity or detection limit is another specification to be considered, that is how little light can be measured. The standard would be fluorescein in NaOH, typical values for a high end instrument are in the femtomolar range.\n\nThese systems come with many options, including:\n"}
{"id": "1884234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884234", "title": "Brāhmasphuṭasiddhānta", "text": "Brāhmasphuṭasiddhānta\n\nThe Brāhmasphuṭasiddhānta (\"Correctly Established Doctrine of Brahma\", abbreviated BSS)\nis the main work of Brahmagupta, written c. 628. This text of mathematical astronomy contains significant mathematical content, including a good understanding of the role of zero, rules for manipulating both negative and positive numbers, a method for computing square roots, methods of solving linear and quadratic equations, and rules for summing series, Brahmagupta's identity, and Brahmagupta’s theorem.\n\nThe book was written completely in verse and does not contain any kind of mathematical notation. Nevertheless, it contained the first clear description of the quadratic formula (the solution of the quadratic equation).\n\nBrāhmasphuṭasiddhānta is one of the first books to provide concrete ideas on positive numbers, negative numbers, and zero. He wrote the following rules:\n\n\nThe last two of these rules are notable as the earliest attempt to define division by zero, even though they are not compatible with modern number theory (division by zero is undefined for a field).\n\n"}
{"id": "1884236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884236", "title": "Nehemiah Broughton", "text": "Nehemiah Broughton\n\nNehemiah Broughton, Jr. (born November 4, 1982) is a former American football fullback. He was drafted by the Washington Redskins in the seventh round of the 2005 NFL Draft. He played college football at The Citadel.\n\nBroughton has also been a member of the Carolina Panthers, Minnesota Vikings, New York Giants and Arizona Cardinals.\n\nBroughton attended North Charleston High School in North Charleston, South Carolina. As a senior, he was an All-State, and an All-Low Country selection after rushing for 1,670 yards, and 23 touchdowns. After his senior football season, he participated in the All North-South game.\n\nBroughton attended The Citadel (The Military College of South Carolina). He finished his career with 581 carries for 2,638 yards (4.5 yards per car. avg.) and 25 touchdowns, 47 receptions for 455 yards (9.7 yards per rec. avg.) and three touchdowns, and two kickoff returns for 32 yards, for a grand total of 3,125 all-purpose yards, along with four tackles. His 2,638 rushing yards rank fifth on the school's career-record list. He accomplished that, despite missing two games as a junior. He majored in Sports Management.\n\nAlso known as a rookie phenom, Broughton tore his ACL in practice in May 2007 and spent the following season on injured reserve. As an exclusive-rights free agent in the 2008 offseason, he was non-tendered and became an unrestricted free agent. He was then re-signed on April 2.\n\nThe Redskins waived Broughton during final cuts on August 30, 2008 and re-signed him to the practice squad. He spent the entire 2008 season on the team's practice squad.\n\nAfter his practice squad contract with the Redskins expired following the 2008 season, Broughton was signed by the Carolina Panthers on January 15, 2009, however he was released on March 17, 2009.\n\nBroughton was signed by the Minnesota Vikings on May 18, 2009. He was waived on September 5.\n\nThe New York Giants signed Broughton to their practice squad on September 7, where he remained through the regular season.\n\nAfter his practice squad contract expired with the Giants, Broughton was signed by the Arizona Cardinals on January 5, 2010. He was released by the Cardinals on July 25, 2011.\n\n"}
{"id": "1884241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884241", "title": "Brahmagupta theorem", "text": "Brahmagupta theorem\n\nIn geometry, Brahmagupta's theorem states that if a cyclic quadrilateral is orthodiagonal (that is, has perpendicular diagonals), then the perpendicular to a side from the point of intersection of the diagonals always bisects the opposite side. It is named after the Indian mathematician Brahmagupta (598-668).\n\nMore specifically, let \"A\", \"B\", \"C\" and \"D\" be four points on a circle such that the lines \"AC\" and \"BD\" are perpendicular. Denote the intersection of \"AC\" and \"BD\" by \"M\". Drop the perpendicular from \"M\" to the line \"BC\", calling the intersection \"E\". Let \"F\" be the intersection of the line \"EM\" and the edge \"AD\". Then, the theorem states that \"F\" is the midpoint \"AD\".\n\nWe need to prove that \"AF\" = \"FD\". We will prove that both \"AF\" and \"FD\" are in fact equal to \"FM\".\n\nTo prove that \"AF\" = \"FM\", first note that the angles \"FAM\" and \"CBM\" are equal, because they are inscribed angles that intercept the same arc of the circle. Furthermore, the angles \"CBM\" and \"CME\" are both complementary to angle \"BCM\" (i.e., they add up to 90°), and are therefore equal. Finally, the angles \"CME\" and \"FMA\" are the same. Hence, \"AFM\" is an isosceles triangle, and thus the sides \"AF\" and \"FM\" are equal.\n\nThe proof that \"FD\" = \"FM\" goes similarly: the angles \"FDM\", \"BCM\", \"BME\" and \"DMF\" are all equal, so \"DFM\" is an isosceles triangle, so \"FD\" = \"FM\". It follows that \"AF\" = \"FD\", as the theorem claims.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1884244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884244", "title": "Musselman Lake, Ontario", "text": "Musselman Lake, Ontario\n\nMusselman's Lake is a community settled adjacent to a kettle lake of the same name in the town of Whitchurch–Stouffville, Ontario, Canada. It is located about 6 km north-northwest of urban Stouffville, and is part of the Greater Toronto Area.\n\nIt is accessible from Highway 48, which links Toronto to Beaverton, and from Highway 404, a limited-access 400-Series Highway west of Musselman's Lake via Aurora Road or Bloomington Road. Ontario Highway 407 is located about south on Ninth Line in Markham. The main roads in the community are Ninth Line on the west side of the lake, and Lakeshore Road on the east. The area around the lake is dotted with a number of smaller kettle lakes, including Island Lake, Shadow Lake, Staley Lake and Windsor Lake. The area around Musselman's Lake feeds a small tributary to the East Holland River, which flows to the west.\n\nMusselman's Lake is on the ecologically sensitive Oak Ridges Moraine; the land drains into both the Lake Ontario and Lake Simcoe watersheds. Pine trees dominate much of the area, with farmland toward the north-east. Creeks and streams are also characteristic of the area.\n\nSand and gravel mining is widespread to the south and east of Musselman's Lake. The mining industry began in the 1950s and continues through the present. Lee Sand & Gravel has been in operations since the 1950s and owned by Crupi Group since 1987. Lafarge has operations next to Lee on the east side along York-Durham Townline.\n\nResidential areas are concentrated around Musselman's Lake and Windsor Lake, and on a few other large lots. The Town of Whitchurch-Stouffville forecasts the population of Musselman's Lake to decline slightly between 2012 and 2031.\n\nThe lake has a surface area of , with a maximum depth of approximately . It is landlocked and fed by springs and surface runoff.\n\nIn 2009, the \"Musselman's Lake Subwatershed Assessment and Stewardship Opportunities Report\" recognized that the water quality of the lake was \"impaired\" and \"degraded,\" and had declined since 1989 when a similar study had been done.\n\nA variety of fish have been found in the lake including:\n\n\nThe area was first settled 1807 by Peter and Jacob Musselman, Mennonites from Pennsylvania. The Musselman established as steam saw mill on the west side of the lake on land later acquired by William Osborn.\n\nThe Glen Baker Hotel and Hall provided local entertainment until 1928 an again until 1970s.\n\nIn the 1950s and 1960s housing developments were built around Musselman's Lake.\n\nOver the years, the community has been referred to both as Musselman's Lake and as Musselman Lake. In 2012, the Town of Whitchurch-Stouffville officially declared the name of the community as \"Musselman's Lake.\"\n\nOn June 17, 2017, the five acre Coultice Park was officially opened on land which was formerly a part of the Wagon Wheel Ranch and donated to the Town by the Coultice family.\n\nVirtually all of the water front in the community of Musselman's Lake is private residential property. Cedar Beach Park is a small park and beach on the northside at Cedarvale Boulevard and Ninth Line is privately run and require admission. Docks along the lake are all private with Cedar Beach Park open to the paying public but not for daily visitors.\n\nUse of the lake and its shorelines is regulated by the Department of Fisheries and Oceans Canada in conjunction with the Lake Simcoe Region Conservation Authority; the Ministry of Natural Resources governs fishing regulations, town by-laws regulate the use of power boats on the lake, and laws are enforced by the York Regional Police Marine Unit. While the resources of all levels of government are used for the regulation, protection and preservation of the lake, the entire perimeter of the lake is currently in a few private hands, and homeowners and business alone benefit from exclusive access rights to one of Whitchurch-Stouffville's most significant natural and recreational assets.\n\nMusselman's Lake is situated near the eastern boundary of the town of Whitchurch–Stouffville. Neighbouring communities within Whitchurch–Stouffville include Ballantrae to the north-east and Bloomington to the south. Goodwood, a community of the town of Uxbridge, lies to the east.\n\nTwo private campgrounds are located north of the lake:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1884247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884247", "title": "Steven Pressley", "text": "Steven Pressley\n\nSteven John Pressley (born 11 October 1973) is a Scottish professional football manager and former player who played as a centre back. He most recently the manager of Carlisle United.\n\nPressley had a long playing career, playing for Celtic and Rangers and making over 100 league appearances for both Dundee United and over 250 for Hearts. Pressley captained the Hearts side that won the 2006 Scottish Cup Final, and made 32 appearances for Scotland. As a player, Pressley was described as hard-working and exhibiting leadership.\n\nAfter retiring as a player, Pressley was assistant manager of Falkirk, before being appointed manager in February 2010. Pressley also served as an assistant manager to George Burley while Burley was manager of Scotland. He moved to League One side Coventry City in March 2013, but was dismissed in February 2015. He has since managed Fleetwood Town, Cypriot club Pafos and Carlisle United.\n\nPressley was born in Elgin, Moray. He started his career at Rangers. During his time at Ibrox, he won a Scottish Cup winner's medal in 1993, appearing as a substitute as Rangers defeated Aberdeen in the cup final.\n\nPressley was transferred to English side Coventry City in October 1994 for £600,000. His one goal for Coventry came against Manchester United.\n\nPressley returned to Scotland in July 1995 with Dundee United, who paid a transfer fee of £750,000. He helped Dundee United to get promotion to the Premier Division in his first season. This was followed by a third-place finish in the 1996–97 Scottish Premier Division.\n\nHis influential style of play and his organisational skills were noticed by Hearts manager Jim Jefferies, and he was signed by the Edinburgh club on a Bosman free transfer in 1998. Pressley was appointed club captain by Craig Levein in 2001–02. Only Bobby Parker has held the Hearts captaincy for a longer period.\n\nPressley was captain when the team beat VfB Stuttgart, Bordeaux and Basel in European matches. He helped Hearts finish second in the league in 2005/06, third on three occasions, as well as reaching the Scottish Cup and League Cup semi-finals. Pressley led Hearts to success in the 2006 Scottish Cup Final, albeit on a penalty shoot-out after the club were held to a 1–1 draw with Gretna after extra time. Pressley scored the first penalty for Hearts, who eventually won 4–2. His enrolment into the Hearts Hall of Fame highlights the status that he enjoyed at Tynecastle.\n\nHe acted as a spokesman for the playing squad in response to the various controversies affecting the club under the ownership of Vladimir Romanov. On 27 October 2006, Pressley led a press conference, flanked by fellow internationals Craig Gordon and Paul Hartley, announcing that there was \"significant unrest in the Hearts dressing room\" following majority shareholder Vladimir Romanov's most recent comments. Romanov stated that he would sell players if Hearts failed to beat Dunfermline Athletic, a match which ended 1–1. However, this game was played out in front of a sell-out crowd who showed their vocal backing for Pressley, Gordon and Hartley. Pressley was then absent from the Hearts squad to face Falkirk on 13 November 2006 and he had been reportedly stripped of the captaincy. A month later, on 9 December 2006, it was confirmed that Pressley and Hearts had parted company and was reported to be attracting the interest of several clubs.\n\nDespite reported interest from Championship Derby County and Premier League Charlton, it was revealed in December 2006 that Pressley had been signed as a free agent by Celtic until May 2008. Having previously played for Rangers, he joined players such as Maurice Johnston, Alfie Conn and Kenny Miller in crossing the Old Firm divide.\n\nHe made his Celtic debut on 2 January 2007 against Kilmarnock and then returned to Tynecastle as stand-in Celtic captain on 14 January. He scored his first competitive goal for Celtic against Inverness Caledonian Thistle in the fifth round of the Scottish Cup, later scoring his only league goal against Hearts on 29 April 2007. He featured in the Celtic team that won the Scottish Cup, making him the first player to do so with three clubs. He made fewer appearances during the 2007–08 season, and he left the club after his contract expired in the summer.\n\nAfter his release from Celtic, Pressley continued to train with Celtic Reserves to keep his fitness up and joined Doncaster Rovers, then Blackpool on trial but failed to win a contract at both clubs. Then, on 1 September 2008 he signed for Randers of the Danish Superliga on a four-month contract, ending in December. Although he had the eagerness to play in a foreign country throughout his career, this was the first offer he had received from abroad. He said \"\"The prospect of playing abroad excited me and it's an ideal situation for both parties. I had a couple of opportunities to go to England, but I wanted to play abroad and experience a new challenge\"\".\n\nPressley made his debut in a 1–1 draw against AC Horsens on 14 September and played the full 90 minutes of the match.\n\nPressley's contract with Randers expired in December 2008, the beginning of the Danish Superliga's Winter break, and he was linked with a move to a number of clubs in Switzerland as well as the manager's job at Inverness in his homeland, but joined Falkirk on 13 January 2009 on a short-term contract until the end of the 2008/09 season. He made his debut for the club in a 3–1 defeat to Rangers at Ibrox Stadium on 18 January, and was an unused substitute in a 1–0 defeat to the same opposition in the 2009 Scottish Cup Final on 30 May.\n\nPressley was capped 32 times by Scotland. He is the most capped Scottish player at Hearts surpassing the record of 29 caps held by Bobby Walker. He made his debut in 2000 against World and European champions France. His appearance against Lithuania on 6 September 2006 ensured that he surpassed Bobby Walker's 91-year-old record as Hearts' most capped Scotland player. He was sent off in what proved to be his last appearance for Scotland, a UEFA Euro 2008 qualifier against Ukraine on 11 October 2006. Pressley served a two-match ban following the red card, which gave Stephen McManus the chance to step up to the international fold. McManus performed very well in Pressley's absence and ended up keeping him out of the starting eleven even after Pressley's suspension ended. Pressley retired from international football in February 2008 when he was named as Scotland's assistant coach, but continued to play club football until his official retirement in June 2009.\n\nPressley had his first experience as a manager while still a player when he took charge of Heart of Midlothian as joint (caretaker) manager for two games at the end of the 2004–05 SPL season, losing both of the games.\n\nAlong with Terry Butcher, Pressley was named as an assistant to the Scotland manager George Burley in February 2008. Pressley was Hearts' captain, and club captain, under Burley during his short reign at Tynecastle. Pressley was in the process of sitting his UEFA pro licence. He left his post as Scotland assistant coach in September 2009, following the country's unsuccessful World Cup qualifying campaign.\n\nDuring the summer of 2009, Pressley was appointed as an assistant manager at Falkirk, following his retirement as a player. Following the resignation of manager Eddie May on 11 February 2010, Pressley was appointed Falkirk manager on a contract until the end of the 2009–10 season. Falkirk were relegated to the First Division at the end of the 2009–10 season. Despite failing to gain promotion back to the SPL at the first attempt, Falkirk extended his contract for another year.\n\nPressley was announced as the new manager of League One side Coventry City on 8 March 2013. He took over the position from Mark Robins, who resigned to join Huddersfield Town. Steven Pressley won his first match in charge the following day, 2–1 away at Scunthorpe. Later in March 2013, the club went into administration and were deducted 10 points, dropping Coventry City from 10th to 14th in the 2012–13 Football League One. Coventry City finished the season in 15th place. In the 2013–14 Football League One season, Coventry City started with a 10-point deduction and had to play all of their home games in Northampton, 34 miles away. Despite these obstacles, the club avoided relegation and finished in 18th place, and were realistic play-off contenders before the mid-season departure of striker Leon Clarke.\n\nFollowing Coventry City's positive start to the 2014–15 season, speculation arose as to Pressley's future at the club, with rumours that Championship club Huddersfield Town were interested in appointing him. Coventry returned to the Ricoh Arena in early September, winning 1-0 before a crowd of 27,500 fans. Pressley signed a four-year contract with Coventry City in September 2014. The team struggled for form following Pressley's contract renewal with a low-point coming when Coventry City were knocked out of the 2014–15 FA Cup by non-league club Worcester City. After a poor run of results in early 2015, Pressley was sacked by Coventry City on 23 February after his 100th league game in charge, with the club having dropped into the relegation zone.\n\nFollowing his departure from Coventry City, Pressley worked as a scout for Premier League club Southampton. Pressley was appointed manager of Fleetwood Town on 6 October 2015, replacing Graham Alexander.\n\nPressley resigned as manager of Fleetwood Town on 26 July 2016.\n\nPressley was appointed manager of Cypriot First Division club Pafos in February 2018.\n\nPressley was appointed manager of English League Two club Carlisle United on 16 January 2019. Carlisle had been in sixth place in League Two when Pressley took over, but they finished outside the promotion playoffs in 11th place. Pressley then made a large number of changes to the squad during the 2019 summer transfer window. He was dismissed by the board on 13 November 2019, with the team in 19th place.\n\nRangers\n\nHearts\n\nCeltic\n\nIndividual\n\nFalkirk\n\nIndividual\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1884253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884253", "title": "Australian Parliamentary Handbook", "text": "Australian Parliamentary Handbook\n\nThe Australian Parliamentary Handbook (officially the \"Parliamentary Handbook of the Commonwealth of Australia\"), is the official record of the Parliament of Australia. The handbook is published once during each three-year Parliament by the Parliamentary Library of Australia, within the Department of Parliamentary Services, under the authority of the Parliament.\n\nThe first edition of the Handbook was published in 1915, and was titled \"Biographical Handbook and Record of Elections for the Parliament of the Commonwealth\". This followed a resolution of the Joint Library Committee ordering the publication of a handbook, giving political biographies of all members of both Houses since Federation in 1901, \"with other information likely to be useful.\" Since 1915 there have been 30 editions of the Handbook. An edition of the Handbook has been published after every federal election since 1917, except for those of 1928 (when there was another election the following year), 1940 and 1943 (due to wartime printing restrictions), 1946 and 1949 (for unknown reasons) and 1954 (another very short Parliament). The edition published in 1976 was described as a \"supplement to the 19th edition,\" published in 1975.\n\nUntil the election of the Whitlam Labor government in 1972, the Handbook was officially titled the \"Commonwealth Parliamentary Handbook\". Whitlam's desire to replace the phrase \"Commonwealth of Australia\" with the word \"Australia\" in all official usages led to the renaming of the Handbook's 18th edition in 1973 as the \"Australian Parliamentary Handbook\". The Fraser Liberal government renamed the Handbook \"Parliamentary Handbook of the Commonwealth of Australia.\"\n\nFor many years the Handbook was the only readily accessible source of statistical information about elections to the Australian Parliament. Since the 1970s, however, these have been published separately by the Australian Electoral Commission (AEC) and are now easily accessible at the AEC website (current elections only) or at Adam Carr's Election Archive (all elections since 1901).\n\nThe modern Handbook contains full biographies of all Members and Senators, details of the Ministry and Shadow Ministry, membership of all Parliamentary committees, statistical information on the composition of the Parliament, summaries of recent election results, the text of the Australian Constitution, results of referendums to change the Constitution, and historical information including the names and career details of all Members and Senators since 1901.\n\nThe Handbook is now available in an online edition.\n"}
{"id": "1884265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884265", "title": "Cold Roses", "text": "Cold Roses\n\nCold Roses is the sixth studio album by alt-country singer-songwriter Ryan Adams, released on May 3, 2005 on Lost Highway. The album is his first with backing band The Cardinals, and the first of three albums released in 2005.\n\n\"Cold Roses\" has sold 159,000 copies in the United States.\n\nAlthough all the tracks can fit on a standard 80-minute disc, it was released as a double album with packaging and CDs designed to make it look like a vinyl LP. The album was also released in a standard 2-disc jewel case.\n\nWhile performing in Liverpool in January 2004, Adams broke his left wrist when he slipped off the stage and fell six feet into the orchestra pit below. A painful recovery and rehab period followed over the next several months, as Adams relocated to his hometown of Jacksonville, North Carolina, and slowly relearned how to play guitar. \"There would be tears streaming down my face as I struggled to play Black Sabbath songs,” he later said. During this difficult time, Adams was inspired by Jerry Garcia's playing because \"he wasn’t afraid to fuck up\". This fascination with The Grateful Dead and Bob Dylan pointed Adams in a new musical direction, and his next band - christened The Cardinals - was conceived as a loose, spacious musical collective.\n\nIn 2011, Adams claimed that \"How Do You Keep Love Alive\" was written while he was high on opium: \"I fully understand when people say Edgar Allan Poe used to smoke this stuff and have visions. I wrote the entire song \"How Do You Keep Love Alive\" without writing a word down, and I played it on piano. And I've tried to understand the chord pattern ever since, because I can't fuckin' play it.\"\n\nThe album so far has a score of 69 out of 100 from Metacritic based on \"generally favorable reviews\". \"USA Today\" gave it three-and-a-half stars out of four and said, \"What makes this hard-to-pigeonhole country/folk/ punk/pop-rocker remarkable is the quality of the quantity. There's not a bad song in Cold Roses' 18-track bouquet, and at least 13 are worth instant iPod enshrining.\" \"The Guardian\" gave it a score of four stars out of five and said of Ryan Adams: \"The boy wonder is back in the saddle.\" \"Chicago Tribune\" gave it a favorable review and called it \"Adams' most ambitious effort to date.\" \"The A.V. Club\" gave it a favorable review and said it \"feels fantastic--as pretty and affecting as a slow sunset.\" \"Spin\" gave it a score of seven out of ten and said, \"There's an air of formal exercise here... But if you can ride with the cliches, you won't fault the execution.\" E! Online gave it a B− and said, \"Even if it is twice as long as it needs to be (thus, a couple of dead spots), we're not arguing. We're just enjoying the music.\"\n\nSome reviews are average or mixed: \"The Austin Chronicle\" gave it a score of three stars out of five and called it \"Adams' double-album hubris\". Neumu.net gave it a score of six stars out of ten and called it \"a relaxed and ambitious collection that confirms Ryan Adams' reputation as a top-notch singer and songwriter who easily jumps styles and evokes comfortable sadness with every turn.\" Tiny Mix Tapes gave it a score of three stars out of five and called it an \"18-track monster\". \"Paste\" also gave it a score of three stars out of five and said it \"comes as a bit of relief, bereft of the posturing that so often attends Adams’ work... That said, there’s also a sense of retreat that permeates the record, a willingness to offer the comforts of familiar tones instead of ambitiously taking chances.\" Playlouder gave it a score of two-and-a-half stars out of five and called it \"A frustratingly self indulgent and inconsistent double album that pitches itself somewhere between the classic country rock of 2001's 'Gold' and the lovelorn despair of 2004's 'Love Is Hell'.\" \"Flak Magazine\" gave it a mixed review and said, \"Without the first disc, the double disc Cold Roses wouldn't be half bad.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1884270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884270", "title": "Peace News", "text": "Peace News\n\nPeace News (PN) is a pacifist magazine first published on 6 June 1936 to serve the peace movement in the United Kingdom. From later in 1936 to April 1961 it was the official paper of the Peace Pledge Union (PPU), and from 1990 to 2004 was co-published with War Resisters' International.\n\n\"Peace News\" was begun by Humphrey Moore who was a Quaker and in 1933 had become editor of the National Peace Council's publications. Working with a peace group in Wood Green, London, Moore and his wife, Kathleen (playing the role of business manager), launched \"Peace News\" with a free trial issue in June 1936. With distribution through Moore’s contacts with the National Peace Council, the new magazine rapidly attracted attention. Within six weeks, Dick Sheppard, founder of the Peace Pledge Union, proposed to Moore that \"Peace News\" should become the PPU’s paper. Early contributors to this new organ of the PPU included Mohandas Gandhi, George Lansbury, and illustrator Arthur Wragg. \"Peace News\" also had a large number of women contributors, including Vera Brittain, Storm Jameson, Rose Macaulay, Ethel Mannin, Ruth Fry, Kathleen Lonsdale and Sybil Morrison.\n\nSome contributors were so sympathetic to the grievances of Nazi Germany that one sceptical member found it difficult to distinguish between letters to \"Peace News\" and those in the newspaper of the British Union of Fascists. The historian Mark Gilbert has argued that \"With the exception of \"Action\", the journal of the British Union of Fascists, it is hard to think of another British newspaper which was so consistent an apologist for Nazi Germany as \"Peace News\".\" However, Juliet Gardiner has noted that \"Peace News\" also urged the British government to give sanctuary to Jewish refugees from Nazism. The fact that some PN contributors were supporting appeasement and excusing Nazi actions caused PN contributor David Spreckley to express fears that \"in their scramble for peace\", they were gaining \"some questionable allies\".\n\nSales of \"Peace News\" peaked at around 40,000 during the so-called Phoney War between September 1939 and May 1940. In that month in the face of demands in parliament for the banning of the paper, the printer and distributors stopped working with \"Peace News\". However, with help from the typographer Eric Gill, Hugh Brock and many others, Moore continued to publish \"Peace News\" and arrange for distribution around the UK.\n\nHumphrey Moore’s emphasis on \"Peace News\" having a single-minded anti-war policy was increasingly being challenged. Others wanted greater emphasis on building a peaceful society once hostilities ended. In 1940 the PPU asked Moore to step aside in the post of assistant editor (which post he held until 1944), and appointed John Middleton Murry as editor. By 1946 Murry had abandoned pacifism and resigned.\n\nHugh Brock took on the role of assistant editor of Peace News in 1946 and became editor in 1955, lasting until 1964. During his period of tenure the magazine separated from the PPU as it had widened its focus into areas not directly related to absolute pacifism. \"Peace News\" in the 1940s published material from American journalist Dwight Macdonald and Maurice Cranston (later to become a noted philosopher).\n\nFrom the 1940s on, \"Peace News\" began to take a strongly critical line towards British rule in Kenya. The magazine also established links with African anti-colonial activists Kwame Nkrumah and Kenneth Kaunda, and \"\"Peace News\"′ close involvement with the anti-apartheid struggle...led to the banning of the paper in South Africa in 1959\". During the 1950s, \"Peace News\" contributors included such noted activists as André Trocmé, Martin Niemöller, Fenner Brockway, A. J. Muste, Richard B. Gregg, Alex Comfort, Donald Soper, Michael Scott, Leslie Hall, M.P., Muriel Lester, Emrys Hughes, M.P., Wilfred Wellock, and Esmé Wynne-Tyson\n\nIn 1959 a gift of £5,700 from Tom Willis enabled \"Peace News\" to buy 5 Caledonian Road, London, N1. This became its office and printing press and was also shared with Housmans Bookshop. It was at the \"Peace News\" office that the Nuclear Disarmament/Peace symbol was adopted. Describing the British pacifist tradition in the 1950s, David Widgery wrote \"at its most likeable it was the sombre decency of \"Peace News\", then a vegetarian tabloid with a Quaker emphasis on active witness\".\n\nThe magazine campaigned against nuclear weapons, often working with the Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament. During this period Brock brought to \"Peace News\" \"a staff of writer-activists committed to developing Gandhian nonviolent action in the anti-militarist cause\", including Pat Arrowsmith, Richard Boston, April Carter, Alan Lovell, Michael Randle, Adam Roberts and the American Gene Sharp. Brock's successor in 1964 was Theodore Roszak. In the same year, a Caribbean Quaker and \"PN\" writer, Marion Glean, \"contributed to a series of statements by post-colonial activists on 'race' in the run-up to the 1964 election, published by Theodore Roszak, editor of \"Peace News\".\" After the election, Glean helped bring together several activists, including David Pitt, C. L. R. James and Ranjana Ash to form the Campaign Against Racial Discrimination. Throughout the 1960s, \"Peace News\" covered issues such as opposition to the Vietnam War and the Biafran issue in the Nigerian Civil War. The magazine's coverage of the Vietnam War was notable for its support for the protests of the Vietnamese Buddhists, who it argued could become a nonviolent \"Third Force\" independent of both the Saigon and Hanoi governments. \"Peace News\" also ran lengthy analysis of left-wing thinkers, including E.P. Thompson's two-part study of C. Wright Mills and Theodore Roszak's assessment of Lewis Mumford.\n\nIn 1971 it added to its masthead the words \"for nonviolent revolution\". In 1974, the paper moved its main office to Nottingham, where it remained until 1990.\n\nIn 1978, one worker at Housmans was injured after a bomb was sent to the \"Peace News\" offices, (allegedly by the neo-Nazi organisation Column 88) as part of a series of attacks on left-wing organisations (similar attacks were made on the Socialist Workers Party and Anti-Nazi League offices before this occurred).\n\n\"Peace News\" suspended publication at the end of 1987, intending to relaunch after a period of rethinking and planning. In May 1989 the paper resumed publication, but quickly ran into financial difficulties. In 1990 it became linked to War Resisters' International and was co-published as a monthly until 1999, then as a quarterly with a British-orientated \"Nonviolent Action\" published in the intervening months. \"Peace News\" came out strongly against the Iraq War while at the same time condemning Saddam Hussein. In 2005, \"Peace News\" resumed monthly publication, as an independent British publication and in a tabloid format.\n\nIn June 2014, \"Peace News\" ran an article calling for a \"Yes\" vote in the Scottish Independence Referendum.\n\n\"Peace News\" continues to be published in tabloid size print media and as a website by Peace News Ltd. It describes its editorial objectives as: to support and connect nonviolent and anti-militarist movements; provide a forum for such movements to develop common perspectives; take up issues suitable for campaigning; promote nonviolent, antimilitarist and pacifist analyses and strategies; stimulate thinking about the revolutionary implications of nonviolence. It is currently edited by Milan Rai and Emily Johns.\n\nThe \"Peace News\" archives are held at the Commonweal Collection in the J.B. Priestley Library, University of Bradford\n\nTony Benn has described \"Peace News\" as \"a paper that gives us hope...(it) should be widely read\".\n\n\"Peace News\" has been associated with initiating numerous campaigns, and a number of its staffmembers have been arrested for taking part in peace actions. In November 1957 Hugh Brock was one of three founders of the Direct Action Committee Against Nuclear War, which was run from the \"Peace News\" office and involved many \"Peace News\" staff. The DAC produced the first badges with the Nuclear Disarmament/Peace symbol, and organised various actions of civil disobedience against nuclear weapons and also the first of the Aldermaston Marches in Easter 1958.\n\nIn 1971 \"Peace News\", together with War Resisters' International, initiated a nonviolent direct action project, Operation Omega, to challenge the Pakistani military blockade of then East Pakistan.\n\nIn the same year \"Peace News\" criticised the attempt to ban the sex education book \"The Little Red Schoolbook\", and reprinted extensive extracts from the publication in the magazine.\n\nIn 1972 \"Peace News\" co-editor Howard Clark, after meeting activists from the Canadian Greenpeace boats, initiated the group that became London Greenpeace, at first campaigning against French nuclear tests.\n\nIn 1973 \"Peace News\" played a central role in launching the British Withdrawal from Northern Ireland Campaign (BWNIC) and in supporting the \"BWNIC 14\", fourteen activists, including a member of the \"Peace News\" collective, charged with \"conspiracy to incite disaffection\" via a leaflet \"Some Information for Discontented Soldiers\". After an 11-week trial, a jury acquitted the BWNIC 14 in 1975, although two members of \"Peace News\" collective were fined for helping two AWOL soldiers go to Sweden.\n\nIn 1974, together with Nicholas Albery of BIT Information Service, \"Peace News\" began publishing the Community Levy for Alternative Projects, an invitation to supply funds for, generally, fledgling alternative projects, partly targeting shops and businesses that identified with counter-cultural ideas and aspirations.\n\nIn August 1974, \"Peace News\" published a special edition revealing and printing in full Colonel David Stirling's plans to establish\na strike-breaking \"private army\", \"Great Britain 1975\". By arrangement \"The Guardian\" led with this story on the day of publication, \"Peace News\" won the 1974 \"Scoop of the Year\" award from Granada Television.\n\nIn 1978, \"Peace News\", together with \"The Leveller\" magazine revealed the identity of Colonel B, a witness in the ABC Trial. \"Peace News\" fought its conviction for \"contempt of court\" right up to appeal in the House of Lords, where the Lord Chief Justice's \"guilty\" verdict was finally overturned.\n\nIn 1995, \"Peace News\", together with Campaign Against Arms Trade, was sued for libel by the Covert & Operational Procurement Exhibition (COPEX) for repeating allegations that the exhibition was serving as a meeting place for buyers and sellers of torture implements. The High Court struck out the case when COPEX failed to show in court and the peace groups were awarded costs.\nThe following is a partial list of \"Peace News\" publications.\n\nFenner Brockway, 1953.\n\n(Reprint: Introduced by Gene Sharp) 1963.\n\n"}
{"id": "1884272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884272", "title": "Acyloin condensation", "text": "Acyloin condensation\n\nAcyloin condensation is a reductive coupling of two carboxylic esters using metallic sodium to yield an α-hydroxyketone, also known as an acyloin.\n\nThe reaction is most successful when \"R\" is aliphatic and saturated. The reaction is performed in aprotic solvents with a high boiling point, such as benzene and toluene in an oxygen free atmosphere of nitrogen (as even traces of oxygen interfere with the reaction path and reduce the yield). The use of protic solvents results in the Bouveault-Blanc reduction of the separate esters rather than condensation. Depending on ring size and steric properties, but independent from high dilution, the acyloin condensation of diesters favours intramolecular cyclisation over intermolecular polymerisation when diesters are used (see below). To account for such cyclisation, it is suggested that the ends, where ester groups are present, are adsorbed, albeit weakly, at nearby sites on the sodium metal. Thus, the reactive ends are not available for polymerisation, thereby decreasing competition for the cyclisation process. Diesters possessing 10 or more carbons undergo cyclisation very easily.\n\nThe cyclization of diesters by intramolecular acyloin condensation is a classical approach for the synthesis of aliphatic ring systems. In general, compared to other cyclization reactions that proceed under basic conditions like the Ziegler-Thorpe and Dieckmann ring formation methods, the acyloin synthesis is suitable for more ring sizes, especially when the Rühlmann method is used to trap the cyclization product as the bis(trimethylsiloxy)alkene (enediol disilyl ether). Although 3-membered rings are not accessible through the acyloin condensation, 5- and 6-membered rings form in high yield (80 – 85% yield), 4-, 7-, 10-, and 11-membered rings form in moderate yield (50 – 60% yield), 8- and 9-membered rings form in poor to modest yield (30 – 40% yield), and finally, 12-membered and higher rings form in good to excellent yields (>70% yield). Although yields for 4-membered and medium-sized rings are poor to moderate, the acyloin condensation constitutes one of the earliest practical cyclization reactions to prepare these challenging ring sizes.\n\nIn comparison, the Dieckmann method is practical only for 5- to 8-membered rings (with modest yields for 7- and 8-membered). The Thorpe method is more easily modified via high dilution (e.g., 0.001 M in benzene/ether) to enable the synthesis of large rings, but 4-membered and 9- to 13-membered rings are still not accessible. Concentration is much less important a factor for obtaining high yields for the acyloin condensation, as the reaction occurs on the surface of the sodium metal. Although, the need for sodium metal limits the functional group tolerance of the reaction, compared to more modern cyclization reactions (e.g. Yamaguchi esterification, ring-closing olefin metathesis), the acyloin condensation continues to be used in the synthesis of complex natural products for the preparation of challenging ring systems.\n\nThe mechanism consists of four steps:\n\nThe method according to Rühlmann employs trimethylchlorosilane as a trapping reagent; by this, competing reactions are efficiently subdued. Generally, yields increase considerably. The hydrolytic cleavage of the silylether gives the acyloin. To achieve a mild cleavage methanol can be used in several cases.\n\nUsually toluene, dioxane, tetrahydrofuran or acyclic dialkylethers are employed as solvents. Advantageously also \"N\"-methyl-morpholine has been used. It allowed in some cases a successful reaction, in which otherwise the reaction failed in less polar media. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1884274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884274", "title": "Actophilornis", "text": "Actophilornis\n\nActophilornis is a genus of jacana. It contains two species restricted to Africa and its surrounding islands.\n\n"}
{"id": "1884282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884282", "title": "Haría (municipality)", "text": "Haría (municipality)\n\nHaría is a municipality on the island of Lanzarote in the Canary Islands, the northernmost and easternmost Canarian municipality. Surrounded on three sides by the Atlantic Ocean, the municipality is bordered to the south by the municipality of Teguise. It forms part of Las Palmas Province. The seat of the municipality is the town of Haría. The population of the municipality was 4,872 in 2013. The total land area of the municipality is .\n\nThe west of the municipality is largely mountainous, with much of the western coastline rising steeply a little way inland. Numerous \"miradors\" (viewpoints) on this high ground offer views of the island, with the most well known being the Mirador del Río which is a popular tourist attraction. To the southeast the land is low-lying and largely used for agriculture, with many small beach resorts along the coast. The northeast of the municipality is largely uninhabited, having been buried approximately 3000 years ago by the eruption of the Montaña Corona which formed the inhospitable Malpais de la Corona. This eruption also produced extensive hollow lava tunnels called \"jameos\", some of which have been developed into two of the island's most-visited geological attractions: the Cueva de los Verdes and the Jameos del Agua.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1884286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884286", "title": "Stephen Laird", "text": "Stephen Laird\n\nStephen Laird, born Laird Lichtenwalner, (August 1, 1915 - February 15, 1990) was an American journalist, working as a \"Time\" magazine reporter and CBS correspondent. He was also accused of being a Soviet spy, supposedly becoming a Communist in the 1930s and in the 1940s providing information to agents of the Soviet Union.\n\nLaird was allegedly recruited by the Soviets while he was at Swarthmore College in the early 1930s. Laird told the \"Allentown Morning Call\" in 1986 that he became close friends with former Soviet ambassador to the United Nations Oleg Troyanovsky, son of Aleksandr A. Troyanovsky, the first Soviet ambassador to the United States from 1934 to 1938, while at Swarthmore. Troyanovsky was a fellow student and member of the football team, of which Laird was assistant coach. Troyanovsky later became a foreign policy assistant and interpreter for Joseph Stalin and adviser to Nikita Khrushchev.\n\nLaird was supposedly considered to be a politically well-developed person by the MGB in 1944, and being utilized as an agent. In 1949 he was living in Vic Vaud, Switzerland. His case was referred to the CIA in the fall of 1950. The story of Laird's secret life surfaced for the first time in the Venona files. Laird's reported code name in Soviet intelligence and in the Venona files is \"Yun\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1884293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884293", "title": "J. J. Hardy", "text": "J. J. Hardy\n\nJames Jerry Hardy (born August 19, 1982) is an American former professional baseball shortstop. He played in Major League Baseball (MLB) for the Milwaukee Brewers, Minnesota Twins, and Baltimore Orioles. Hardy attended Sabino High School in Tucson, Arizona where he was an All-State selection from 1999 to 2001 and an All-American selection in 2001. Hardy was originally drafted by the Milwaukee Brewers in the second round of the 2001 Amateur Draft.\n\nHardy played baseball at Sabino High School in Arizona, and was captain of the \"Sabercats\" baseball team. He was an All-State Selection in 1999, 2000, and 2001, and was All-American in 2001. Also in 2001, he was a member of the U.S. Junior National team, which won the silver medal in Edmonton, Alberta, Canada.\n\nHe was drafted by the Milwaukee Brewers during the second round of the 2001 draft. In 2003, he played for the U.S. Olympic Qualifying team. He participated in MLB All-Star Futures Game in 2003. Hardy suffered a dislocated shoulder and a torn labrum in 2004 in the minor leagues and sat out the year.\n\nHe went into spring training in 2005 as the frontrunner to win the starting shortstop job. Although he got off to a very slow start, Hardy finished strong and ended the year with a .247 batting average, 9 home runs and 50 RBIs. Hardy committed only 10 errors in the field, but also had the lowest range factor of all major league shortstops (3.76).\n\nOn May 16, 2006, Hardy slid into Philadelphia Phillies catcher Sal Fasano at home plate trying to score and badly injured his ankle when Fasano attempted to block the plate. X-rays revealed a severe sprain of the ankle, and he was placed on the 15-day disabled list. Hardy recovered from the sprain, but constantly had trouble with an ankle tendon that kept popping in and out of place. On July 18, the Brewers announced that Hardy would have season-ending surgery on his ankle, performed by team physician Dr. William Raasch. Hardy finished the year with an average of .242 with 5 home runs and 14 RBI.\n\nBy June 27, 2007, Hardy had already doubled his career home run total. He ended up batting .277 with 26 home runs, and 80 RBIs. He was selected to play as a reserve in the 2007 Major League Baseball All-Star Game, held in San Francisco. He played in the ninth inning and was walked on his first and only plate appearance.\n\nAs of the end of the 2008 season, Hardy was batting .283, with 2 stolen bases, 24 home runs, and 74 RBI. He had a 16-game hitting streak, which was broken on July 5 with a sacrifice bunt in order to aid the Brewers in defeating the Pittsburgh Pirates. For the week of July 7, he was the National League Player of the Week.\n\nHardy was re-signed by the Brewers to a one-year, $4.65 million contract. After a low-performing season through July, he was optioned to the Triple-A Nashville Sounds on August 12. His line-drive rate had declined for five consecutive seasons prior to his demotion. He was recalled on September 1 and finished the season batting .229 with 11 HRs and 47 RBI.\n\nOn November 6, 2009, Hardy was traded from the Brewers to the Minnesota Twins in exchange for outfielder Carlos Gómez. He spent some time on the disabled list during the course of the 2010 season, but did end up playing over 100 games for the Twins and hit .268 for the season.\n\nOn December 9, 2010, Hardy was traded to the Baltimore Orioles from the Twins, along with utility infielder Brendan Harris and $500,000, for minor league pitchers Brett Jacobson and Jim Hoey.\n\nHardy had a career resurgence and had a strong 2011 campaign. On July 16, 2011, Hardy agreed on a three-year deal to remain with the Orioles through 2014. Hardy finished the season with 30 HR and 80 RBI. He also hit .269.\n\nHardy won his first Gold Glove in 2012 finishing with a .992 fielding percentage, 68 RBIs, 22 home runs, and a .238 batting average. He helped the Orioles to their first MLB postseason berth since 1997 with the second MLB Wild Card Game spot. The Orioles won the one-game playoff, but lost in the 2012 ALDS to the New York Yankees.\n\nIn 2013, Hardy won his second Gold Glove Award and his first Silver Slugger award as the best offensive player at his position. His teammates, third baseman Manny Machado and center fielder Adam Jones, also won 2013 Gold Glove Awards.\n\nFrom 2011 to 2013, his 77 home runs led all major league shortstops.\n\nIn 2014, Hardy battled back injuries and spent time on the DL during the beginning of the season. 2014 also showed a decline in Hardy's power, and he only hit nine homeruns in over 140 games. \nIn the 2014 ALDS, Hardy hit a solo homerun off of Detroit Tigers pitcher Max Scherzer, his first career postseason homerun. Hardy slashed .240/.321/.400 in seven postseason games. \nOn October 9, 2014, Hardy agreed to a 3-year, $40 million extension with the Orioles.\n\nOn November 4, 2014, Hardy won his third consecutive Gold Glove Award for a shortstop. With this award, he passed Orioles great Cal Ripken Jr. for the second-most Gold Gloves won by an Orioles shortstop. He trails Mark Belanger who won eight of these awards.\n\nHardy spent the first month of the 2015 season on the DL. He made his season debut on May 7 against the New York Yankees. In his fourth game back, Hardy went 2-for-4 and hit his first homerun of the season.\n\nOn July 17, Hardy started a consecutive games hit streak. On July 29, he extended the hit streak to twelve games with a solo homerun. At that point in the streak, he was 13-for-42 (.310), with two homeruns, seven RBIs, and thirteen runs scored. Hardy extended the streak to thirteen with a 2-out single in the sixth inning the next night against the Tigers. On August 2, his streak ended at fifteen games after he did not have a hit in a game against the Tigers. During the fifteen games, Hardy collected sixteen hits (.291 BAA), with two doubles, two homers, seven RBIs, and was walked twice. He raised his season batting average from .226 up to .240 during the stretch.\n\nHardy finished 2015, a down year for him, with a batting average of .219 (90 hits), 8 homeruns, and 37 RBIs. His defense, however, was solid, as he only committed three errors in 114 games (994 innings) and 445 total chances. He turned 57 double plays, while also having a .993 fielding percentage with a range factor of 3.88.\n\nAfter a disappointing 2015 season in which Hardy was plagued with injuries, he hoped to come back healthy for the 2016 season. He entered the second year of his three-year contract. On April 12, Hardy homered twice in one game and drove in five runs in a 9–5 victory over the Boston Red Sox, which helped the Orioles improve to a franchise-best 7-0 record at the time. On May 1, Hardy fouled a ball off of his foot and was later removed from the game. He later got x-rays on his foot and was placed on the 15-day DL.\n\nOn August 18, Hardy hit his 100th career home run as an Oriole in a game where he had three hits and two home runs. His 100th homer gave him sole possession of 2nd place on the Orioles all-time list for home runs as a shortstop, behind Oriole legend Cal Ripken Jr. who had 345 as a shortstop. It was Hardy's second multi-homer game of the year. On August 22, Hardy picked up his 1,400th career hit. Hardy hit a three-run home run on September 13 against the Red Sox, giving him his 256th extra-base hit as an Oriole, tying him for Rick Dempsey for 25th most in team history. He also tied teammate Manny Machado for 25th on the all-time Orioles home run list.\n\nHardy finished the season with a .269/.309/.407 slash with a .716 OPS. He collected 38 extra-base hits while driving in 48 runs. He went 0-for-4 in a Wild Card Game loss to the AL East rival Toronto Blue Jays.\n\nHardy entered 2017 healthy and collected his first hit of the season on April 7. On April 12, he surpassed former teammate Matt Wieters on the Orioles all-time hit list and moved into 40th place. On April 16, he moved into 49th place for most runs scored in franchise history. He also tied Wieters for 38th on the all-time franchise leader board for career doubles. On April 20, he surpassed Wieters on the franchise leader board for career doubles with his 158th with the Orioles.\n\nOn June 18, Hardy was struck on the wrist by a 94 mph fastball from Cardinals pitcher Lance Lynn. It confirmed the next day that he had suffered a broken wrist and was placed on the 10-Day DL. He was moved to the 60-Day DL later in the year before returning to the Orioles in early September. He assumed the role of bench player after the emergence of Tim Beckham, who the Orioles had traded for earlier in the season. On September 24, the final home game of the year for the Orioles, Hardy collected two hits, including a homer, and received three standing ovations from the Orioles crowd in what was his last game as an Oriole at Camden Yards. On November 3, the Orioles declined Hardy's 2018 option.\n\nDuring his seven year tenure with the Orioles, Hardy played in 889 games, slashing .252/.293/.398 with a .690 OPS. He hit 107 home runs with the club and drove in 385 runs and played a crucial part in the Orioles quest to getting back to the postseason in 2012 for the first time in 14 years. He won three Gold Glove awards, earned a Silver Slugger and made an All-Star Game appearance as a starter in 2013.\n\nHardy's father was a professional tennis player, and his mother was a professional golfer. Hardy's brother, Logan, was with the U.S. Army's 75th Field Artillery Brigade, a unit among the first to Baghdad in March 2003 during Operation Iraqi Freedom. Hardy married former University of Arizona softball player Adrienne Acton on December 7, 2013.\n"}
{"id": "1884298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884298", "title": "Kurt Tibbetts", "text": "Kurt Tibbetts\n\nDarwin Kurt Tibbetts, OBE (born 2 March 1954) is a Caymanian politician and former Leader of Government Business in the Cayman Islands. Tibbetts served as leader of the People's Progressive Movement party from June 2003 to February 2011. Tibbetts served as the first elected member for the district of George Town, serving six terms in the Legislative Assembly of the Cayman Islands.\n\nTibbetts was born in Jamaica for medical reasons. After his birth, he returned to the family home in Cayman Brac until he was sent away to Jamaica for schooling at age 7, where he attended St. George's College, Jamaica. At age of 19, he moved to Grand Cayman and worked in the CIBC for one year. After this, he worked in a print shop for four years and then started his own printing business, which he had owned and managed for over twenty five years. The Tibbetts family originated in Cayman Brac and even though Tibbetts has spent much of his life in Grand Cayman, he also identifies strongly with the Sister Islands.\n\nIn 1976, at just 22 years of age, he joined the Lions Club of Grand Cayman, serving as President in 1988 and 1993–1994. His acumen for fund raising helped the club collect hundreds of thousands of dollars that were ploughed back into the community, mostly to augment government welfare programmes. During his tenure as President for the 1993–94 year was the launching of the Big Brothers, Big Sisters movement. He also helped introduce the Lions’ Benzarama fundraisers that brought country music legends Johnny Cash, Charlie Pride, Tanya Tucker, Ronnie Milsap, Don Williams and Ben E. King to the Cayman Islands. Tibbetts gratefully acknowledges the influence his Lions Club seniors had on him and emphasises that he is only one among many like-minded members. He values all the club's accomplishments and particularly the fellowship of its membership. Notably, it was the satisfaction Tibbetts gained from serving others that led to his decision to enter the political arena.\n\nIn 1988 he ran against other George Town politicians and came in fourth behind Truman Bodden at the time there were only three George Town representatives and he was not elected. It was Tibbetts' love for public service that first attracted him to politics. Concerned about constitutional matters and the welfare of the people, he decided to run as a candidate for the district of George Town in 1992. He won the seat with a large majority and has ably and endearingly represented the people of George Town and the Cayman Islands ever since. In 1992, following the creation of a fourth George Town seat, Tibbetts was elected fourth to the Legislative Assembly for the district of George Town.\n\nIn November 1996 Tibbetts was elected first to the Legislative Assembly for the district of George Town and has continuously since. Tibbetts has also served on several Government Boards. He was appointed a Justice of the Peace in 1998. During his first two terms in the Legislative Assembly Tibbetts proved to be a good constituency representative, a team player and an effective leader. It was therefore no surprise when he was elected to be the Leader of Government Business in November 2000. From November 2000 to November 2001 he served as the Leader of Government Business, as well as serving on Executive Councils (renamed Cabinet in 2003) as Minister for Planning, Communications and Works.\n\nOn November 8, 2001 legislators led by McKeeva Bush voted to oust Tibbetts as Leader of Government Business saying he has not done enough to counter a slowing economy. Nine of the 15 elected legislators voted to remove Tibbetts as Leader of Government Business. Five voted against the motion, and one (Tibbetts) abstained. The vote came after 10 of the 15 elected legislators formed a new party that same day, The legislators, who had been independents, formed the new United Democratic Party, with Mckeeva Bush as their leader. As part of the changes to the Assembly's Executive Council, legislators also \nremoved Tibbetts supporter Edna Moyle as minister of community development and women's affairs. Tibbetts said during debate on the motion that he had no choice but to accept the result of the vote, but said the islands should restructure the system so that the leadership cannot be so easily removed.\n\nFrom November 2001 until May 2005, Tibbetts served as the Leader of the Opposition. Following the political challenges of 2001, Mr. Tibbetts proved himself to be a statesman by devoting his talents to the task of political modernization of the Cayman Islands. First he assembled an able team and together they systematically went about creating a modern political organization based on widespread consultation and political education. Politics came of age in 2003 when the People's Progressive Movement (PPM) was inaugurated with Tibbetts as Leader of the PPM and Leader of Her Majesty's Opposition. For the first time in caymanian history, the election of May 2005 was keenly contested between two major parties, the PPM and the United Democratic Party.\n\nFollowing the People's Progressive Movement success in the Cayman Islands general election 2005, Tibbetts returned to serve as the Leader of Government Business and Minister for District Administration, Planning, Agriculture and Housing during the People's Progressive Movement administration from May 2005 to May 2009. Over the past years Tibbetts has openly advocated participatory democracy, governmental transparency, and governmental accountability. Tibbetts' major political accomplishments include the freedom of Information act, which for the first time in the caymanian history grants residents virtually unfettered access to the inner workings of government, the 2009 Cayman Islands Constitution, infrastructure and capital projects that he has been instrumental in creating, such as the construction of the Esterley Tibbetts Highway, The East-West Arterial and the New Government Administration Building. For two terms as an Opposition Member, he consolidated his understanding of the importance of medium- and long-term planning for the Islands, as well as the need for constitutional modernization to strengthen Cayman's democracy.\n\nTibbetts returned to opposition following the Cayman Islands general election, 2009. On 10 November 2010 Tibbetts announced that he would be stepping down as Leader of the Opposition and Leader of the People's Progressive Movement opposition front bench and on 12 February 2011, the People's Progressive Movement made history when it became the first political party in the Cayman Islands to transfer leadership. Tibbetts stepped down as Leader of the Opposition and Leader of the People's Progressive Movement and was replaced by Alden McLaughlin. In June 2011 Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth II bestowed the designation Order of the British Empire OBE for his service to the Islands.\n\nOnce again following the People's Progressive Movement success in 2013 general elections, the progressives won half of the seats (9) in the legislative assembly and formed a government. Tibbetts, was returned as first elected member for the district of George Town for the sixth consecutive time. Premier Alden McLaughlin appointed Tibbetts to serve in cabinet as Minister responsible for Planning, Lands, Agriculture, Housing and Infrastructure in the 2013-2017 People's Progressive Movement Administration.\n\nIn March 2017 Tibbetts announced that after 25 years in office he would not seek re-election and his retirement from politics in the Legislative Assembly of the Cayman Islands prior to the 2017 general elections.\n\nHe married Shirley-Ann Tibbetts in 1984 and they have three children: daughters Jacynth and Janelle, and son Jared.\n\nTibbetts was appointed Officer of the Order of the British Empire (OBE) in the 2010 Queen Elizabeth II Birthday Honours for his success in business, community service and politics.\n\n"}
{"id": "1884305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884305", "title": "Army–McCarthy hearings", "text": "Army–McCarthy hearings\n\nThe Army–McCarthy hearings were a series of hearings held by the United States Senate's Subcommittee on Investigations (April–June 1954) to investigate conflicting accusations between the United States Army and U.S. Senator Joseph McCarthy. The Army accused Chief Committee Counsel Roy Cohn of pressuring the Army to give preferential treatment to G. David Schine, a former McCarthy aide and friend of Cohn's. McCarthy counter-charged that this accusation was made in bad faith and in retaliation for his recent aggressive investigations of suspected Communists and security risks in the Army.\n\nChaired by Senator Karl Mundt, the hearings convened on March 16, 1954, and received considerable press attention, including gavel-to-gavel live television coverage on ABC and DuMont (April 22–June 17). The media coverage, particularly television, greatly contributed to McCarthy's decline in popularity and his eventual censure by the Senate the following December.\n\nMcCarthy came to national prominence in February 1950 after giving a speech in Wheeling, West Virginia, in which he claimed to have a list of 205 State Department employees who were members of the Communist Party. McCarthy claimed the list was provided to and dismissed by then-Secretary of State Dean Acheson, saying that the \"State Department harbors a nest of Communists and Communist sympathizers who are helping to shape our foreign policy\". In January 1953, McCarthy began his second term and the Republican Party regained control of the Senate; with the Republicans in the majority, McCarthy was made chairman of the Senate Committee on Government Operations. This committee included the Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations, and the mandate of this subcommittee allowed McCarthy to use it to carry out his investigations of Communists in the government. McCarthy appointed 26-year-old Roy Cohn as chief counsel to the subcommittee and future Attorney General Robert F. Kennedy as assistant counsel, while reassigning Francis Flanagan to the ad hoc position of general counsel.\n\nIn 1953, McCarthy's committee began inquiries into the United States Army, starting by investigating supposed Communist infiltration of the Army Signal Corps laboratory at Fort Monmouth. McCarthy's investigations were largely fruitless, but after the Army accused McCarthy and his staff of seeking special treatment for Private G. David Schine, a chief consultant to the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations and a close friend of Cohn's who had been drafted into the Army as a private the previous year, McCarthy claimed that the accusation was made in bad faith.\n\nThe Senate decided that these conflicting charges should be investigated and the appropriate committee to do this was the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations, usually chaired by McCarthy. Since McCarthy was one of the targets of the hearings, Senator Karl Mundt (R-South Dakota) was reluctantly appointed to replace McCarthy as chairman of the subcommittee. John G. Adams was the Army's Counsel. Acting as Special Counsel was Joseph Welch of the Boston law firm of Hale & Dorr (now called WilmerHale). The hearings were broadcast nationally on the new ABC and DuMont networks, and in part by NBC. Francis Newton Littlejohn, the news director at ABC, made the decision to cover the hearings live, gavel-to-gavel. The televised hearings lasted for 36 days and an estimated 80 million people saw at least part of the hearings.\n\nWhile the hearings went on, a photograph of Schine was introduced, and Joseph Welch accused Cohn of doctoring the image to show Schine alone with Army Secretary Robert T. Stevens. On the witness stand Cohn and Schine both insisted that the picture entered into evidence (Schine and Stevens alone) was requested by Stevens and that no one was edited out of the photograph. Welch then produced a wider shot of Stevens and Schine with McGuire AFB wing commander Colonel Jack Bradley standing to Schine's right. A fourth person also edited out of the picture (his sleeve was visible to Bradley's right in the Welch photograph) was identified as McCarthy aide Frank Carr.\n\nAfter the photograph was discredited, McCarthy produced a copy of a confidential letter he claimed was a January 26, 1951 memo written and sent by FBI Director J. Edgar Hoover, to Major General Alexander R. Bolling, warning Army Intelligence of subversives in the Army Signal Corps. McCarthy claimed the letter was in the Army files when Stevens became secretary in 1953, and that Stevens willfully ignored it. Welch was the first to question the letter's validity, claiming that McCarthy's \"purported copy\" did not come from Army files; McCarthy stated he never received any document from the FBI, but when questioned on the stand by special Senate counsel Ray Jenkins and cross-examined by Welch, McCarthy, while admitting the document was given to him by an intelligence officer, refused to identify his source.\n\nRobert Collier, assistant to Ray Jenkins, read a letter from Attorney General Herbert Brownell Jr., in which he stated that Hoover examined the document and that he neither wrote nor ordered the letter, and that no such copy existed in FBI files, rendering McCarthy's claims meritless, and the letter spurious.\n\nThough the hearings were primarily about government subversion, they occasionally took on accusations of a more taboo nature: a portion of the hearings assessed the security risk of homosexuals in government. The issue remained an undercurrent throughout the hearings. One such example of this undercurrent was an exchange between Senator McCarthy and Joseph Welch. Welch was questioning McCarthy staff member James Juliana about the unedited picture of Schine with Stevens and Bradley, asking him \"Did you think this came from a Pixie?\", at which point McCarthy asked to have the question re-read:\n\nAt least a portion of the Army's allegations were correct. Roy Cohn did take steps to request preferential treatment for Schine, going so far on at least one occasion to sign McCarthy's name without his knowledge on a request for Schine to have access to the Senators' Baths, a pool and steam room reserved exclusively for senators.\n\nThe exact relationship between Cohn, McCarthy and Schine remains unknown. Cohn and Schine were certainly close, and rather than work out of the Senate offices, the two rented nearby office space and shared bills. McCarthy commented that Cohn was unreasonable in matters dealing with Schine. It is unclear if Schine ever had a romantic or sexual relationship with Cohn, who was a closeted homosexual. (Three years after the hearings, Schine married and eventually had six children.) Some have also suggested that McCarthy may have been homosexual, and was even possibly involved with Schine or Cohn.\n\nIn what played out to be the most dramatic exchange of the hearings, McCarthy responded to aggressive questioning from Army counsel Joseph Welch. On June 9, 1954, day 30 of the hearings, Welch challenged Cohn to give McCarthy's list of 130 subversives in defense plants to the office of the FBI and the Department of Defense \"before the sun goes down\". In response to Welch's challenge, McCarthy suggested that Welch should check on Fred Fisher, a young lawyer in Welch's own Boston law firm whom Welch had planned to have on his staff for the hearings. McCarthy then mentioned that Fisher had once belonged to the National Lawyers Guild (NLG), a group which Attorney General Brownell had called \"the legal bulwark of the Communist Party\".\n\nWelch revealed he had confirmed Fisher's former membership in the National Lawyers' Guild approximately six weeks before the hearings started. After Fisher admitted his membership in the National Lawyers' Guild, Welch decided to send Fisher back to Boston. His replacement by another colleague on Welch's staff was also covered by \"The New York Times\". Welch then reprimanded McCarthy for his needless attack on Fisher, saying that \"Until this moment, Senator, I think I never really gauged your cruelty or your recklessness.\" McCarthy, accusing Welch of filibustering the hearing and baiting Cohn, dismissed Welch's dissertation and casually resumed his attack on Fisher, at which point Welch angrily cut him short:\n\nSenator, may we not drop this? We know he belonged to the Lawyer's Guild ... Let us not assassinate this lad further, Senator; you've done enough. Have you no sense of decency, sir? At long last, have you left no sense of decency?\nWelch excluded himself from the remainder of the hearings with a parting shot to McCarthy: \"Mr. McCarthy, I will not discuss this further with you... You have seen fit to bring [the Fisher/NLG affair] out, and if there is a God in heaven, it will do neither you nor your cause any good! I will not discuss it further... You, Mr. Chairman, may as you will, call the next witness!\" After Welch deferred to Chairman Mundt to call the next witness, the gallery burst into applause.\n\nNear the end of the hearings, McCarthy and Senator Stuart Symington (D-Missouri) sparred over the handling of secret files by McCarthy's staff. McCarthy staff director Frank Carr testified that everyone who worked on McCarthy's staff had access to classified files regardless of their level of security clearance. Symington hinted that some members of McCarthy's own staff might themselves be subversive and signed a document agreeing to take the stand in the hearings to reveal their names in return for McCarthy's signature on the same document agreeing to an investigation of his staff. But McCarthy, after calling Symington \"Sanctimonious Stu\", refused to sign the agreement, claiming it contained false statements, and called the accusations an \"unfounded smear\" on his men. He then rebuked Symington by saying \"You're not fooling anyone!\" But Symington retaliated with a prophetic remark of his own: \"Senator, the American people have had a look at you now for six weeks; you're not fooling anyone, either.\"\n\nIn Gallup polls from January 1954, McCarthy's approval rating was at 50%, with only 29% disapproving. By June, both percentages had shifted by 16%, with more people (34% approving, 45% disapproving) now rejecting McCarthy and his methods.\n\nAfter hearing 32 witnesses and two million words of testimony, the committee concluded that McCarthy himself had not exercised any improper influence on Schine's behalf, but that Roy Cohn, McCarthy's chief counsel, had engaged in some \"unduly persistent or aggressive efforts\" for Schine. The conclusion also reported questionable behavior on the part of the Army: that Secretary Stevens and Army Counsel John Adams \"made efforts to terminate or influence the investigation and hearings at Fort Monmouth\", and that Adams \"made vigorous and diligent efforts\" to block subpoenas for members of the Army Loyalty and Screening Board \"by means of personal appeal to certain members of the [McCarthy] committee\". Before the official reports were released, Cohn had resigned as McCarthy's chief counsel, and Senator Ralph Flanders (R, Vermont) had introduced a resolution of censure against McCarthy in the Senate.\n\nDespite McCarthy's acquittal of misconduct in the Schine matter, the Army–McCarthy hearings ultimately became the main catalyst in McCarthy's downfall from political power. Daily newspaper summaries were increasingly unfavorable toward McCarthy, while television audiences witnessed firsthand the unethical tactics of the junior Senator from Wisconsin.\n\nOn December 2, 1954, the Senate voted 67–22 to censure McCarthy, effectively eradicating his influence, though not expelling him from office. McCarthy continued to chair the Subcommittee on Investigations until January 3, 1955, the day the 84th United States Congress was inaugurated; Senator John L. McClellan (D-Arkansas) replaced McCarthy as chairman.\n\nFred Fisher was relatively unaffected by McCarthy's charges and went on to become a partner in Boston's prestigious Hale & Dorr law firm and organized its commercial law department. He also served as president of the Massachusetts Bar Association and as chairman of many committees of the American and Boston bar associations.\n\nAfter his censuring, Senator McCarthy continued his anti-Communist oratory, often speaking to an empty or near-empty Senate chamber. Turning increasingly to alcohol, McCarthy died of hepatitis on May 2, 1957, at the age of 48.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1884310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884310", "title": "Haría (village)", "text": "Haría (village)\n\nHaría is a village in the municipality of Haría in the north of the island of Lanzarote in the Canary Islands. The town had a population of 1,128 in the 2011 census. The town is the capital of the municipality of Haría.\n\nIt lies in a valley known as the Valley of 1,000 Palms. A craft market is held in the town on Saturdays.\n\nThe artist Cesar Manrique is buried in the cemetery of Haría.\n"}
{"id": "1884312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884312", "title": "Window of the World", "text": "Window of the World\n\nThe Window of the World () is a theme park located in the western part of the city of Shenzhen in the People's Republic of China. It has about 130 reproductions of some of the most famous tourist attractions in the world squeezed into 48 hectares (118 acres). The 108 metre (354 ft) tall Eiffel Tower dominates the skyline and the sight of the Pyramids and the Taj Mahal all in proximity to each other are all part of the appeal of this theme park.\n\nThe Window of the World Station on Line 1 and Line 2 of the Shenzhen Metro is located directly in front of the park. The Happy Line monorail has a stop near Window of the World.\n\nMonorail and open cars runs inside the park.\n\nIn his autobiographical graphic novel \"Shenzhen\", Guy Delisle visits the park with a Chinese acquaintance. The Park was a destination of The Amazing Race 28.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nOthers\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1884317", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884317", "title": "Dual economy", "text": "Dual economy\n\nA dual economy is the existence of two separate economic sectors within one country, divided by different levels of development, technology, and different patterns of demand. The concept was originally created by Julius Herman Boeke to describe the coexistence of modern and traditional economic sectors in a colonial economy.\n\nDual economies are common in less developed countries, where one sector is geared to local needs and another to the global export market. Dual economies may exist within the same sector, for example a modern plantation or other commercial agricultural entity operating in the midst of traditional cropping systems. Sir Arthur Lewis used the concept of a dualistic economy as the basis of his labour supply theory of rural-urban migration. Lewis distinguished between a rural low-income subsistence sector with surplus population, and an expanding urban capitalist sector (see Dual-sector model). The urban economy absorbed labour from rural areas (holding down urban wages) until the rural surplus was exhausted.\n\nA World Bank comparison of sectoral growth in Côte d'Ivoire, Ghana and Zimbabwe since 1965 provided evidence against the existence of a basic dual economy model. The research implied that a positive link existed between growth in industry and growth in agriculture. The authors argued that for maximum economic growth, policymakers should have focused on agriculture and services as well as industrial development.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1884319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884319", "title": "Lenore Blum", "text": "Lenore Blum\n\nLenore Carol Blum (née Epstein, born December 18, 1942) is an American computer scientist and mathematician, formerly a distinguished career professor of computer science at Carnegie Mellon University. She is known for her contributions to the theory of real number computation, for her invention of a cryptographically secure pseudorandom number generator, and for her efforts to increase the diversity of mathematics and computer science.\n\nBlum was born to a Jewish family in New York City, where her mother was a science teacher. They moved to Venezuela when Blum was nine.\nAfter graduating from her Venezuelan high school at age 16, she studied architecture at Carnegie Institute of Technology (now Carnegie Mellon University) beginning in 1959. With the assistance of Alan Perlis, she shifted fields to mathematics in 1960. She married Manuel Blum, then a student at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and transferred in 1961 to Simmons College, a private women's liberal arts college in Boston. Simmons did not have a strong mathematics program but she was eventually able to take Isadore Singer's mathematics classes at MIT, graduating from Simmons with a B.S. in mathematics in 1963.\n\nShe received her Ph.D. in mathematics from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1968. Her dissertation, \"Generalized Algebraic Theories: A Model Theoretic Approach\", was supervised by Gerald Sacks. She had switched to being advised by Sacks after being unable to follow an earlier advisor in his move to Princeton University because, at the time, Princeton did not accept female graduate students.\n\nAfter completing her doctorate, Blum went to the University of California at Berkeley to work with Julia Robinson as a postdoctoral fellow and lecturer in mathematics.\nHowever, the department had no permanent positions for women, and after two years, her position as lecturer was not renewed. In 1971 she became one of the founders of the Association for Women in Mathematics.\nIn 1973 she joined the faculty of Mills College, a women's college in the Oakland hills near Berkeley. In 1974 she founded the mathematics and computer science department at Mills, at that time the only computer science program at a women's college. She served as the head or co-head of the department for 13 years. From 1975 to 1978 she served as the third president of the Association for Women in Mathematics. In 1979 she was awarded an endowed professorship, the first Letts-Villard Chair at Mills.\n\nIn 1983 Blum won a National Science Foundation Visiting Professorship for Women award to work with Michael Shub for two years at the CUNY Graduate Center.\nIn 1987 she spent a year at IBM.\nIn 1992 Blum became the deputy director of the Mathematical Sciences Research Institute (MSRI), working there with its director William Thurston. After visiting the City University of Hong Kong in 1996–1998 to work on her book \"Complexity and Real Computation\" (during Hong Kong's handover from British to Chinese rule), she became a Distinguished Career Professor of Computer Science at Carnegie Mellon University (CMU) in 1999.\n\nAt CMU, she took the philosophy that the low numbers of women majoring in computer science were in part caused by a vicious cycle: because there were few women, the women in computer science had fewer support networks (such as friends in the same major to help them with coursework) than men. And because these factors made being a computer scientist less pleasant and more difficult for the women, fewer women chose to major in computer science. Instead of the then-popular approach of changing the curriculum to be more application-centric in the hope of attracting women, she pushed to maintain a traditional computer science program but to change the culture surrounding the program to be more welcoming. In support of this goal, she founded the Women@SCS program at CMU, which provided both mentoring and outreach opportunities for women in computer science.\nThrough this program, which came to be directed by Blum's student Carol Frieze, CMU was able to increase the proportion of women in the undergraduate computer science program to nearly 50%.\n\nBlum also founded Project Olympus at CMU, a business incubator program that led to many startups in Pittsburgh associated with CMU and its computer program.\nShe resigned from CMU in 2018 (effective August 2019) after a change in management structure of Project Olympus led to sexist treatment of her and the exclusion of other women from project activities.\n\nThe Blum Blum Shub pseudorandom number generator, published jointly by Blum, Manuel Blum, and Michael Shub, is based on the operation of squaring numbers modulo the products of two large primes. Its security can be reduced to the computational hardness assumption that integer factorization is infeasible.\n\nBlum is also known for the Blum–Shub–Smale machine, a theoretical model of computation over the real numbers. Blum and her co-authors, Michael Shub and Stephen Smale, showed that (analogously to the theory of Turing machines) one can define analogues of NP-completeness, undecidability, and universality for this model. For instance, in this model it is undecidable to determine whether a given point belongs to the Mandelbrot set. She published a book on the subject, and in 1990 she gave an address at the International Congress of Mathematicians on computational complexity theory and real computation.\n\nIn 2002, Blum was selected to be a Noether Lecturer.\n\nIn 2005, Blum was a recipient of the Presidential Award for Excellence in Science, Mathematics, and Engineering Mentoring, given by president George W. Bush \"for her efforts to mentor girls and women in technology fields where traditionally they are underrepresented\". She was given the Simmons University 2018 Distinguished Alumnae Lifetime Achievement Award in 2018.\n\nBlum was elected as a Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science in 1979.\nIn 2012, Blum became a fellow of the American Mathematical Society. In 2017 she was selected as a fellow of the Association for Women in Mathematics in the inaugural class.\n\nLenore Blum is married to Manuel Blum and is the mother of Avrim Blum. All three have been MIT alumni and professors of Computer Science at Carnegie Mellon.\n\n"}
{"id": "1884320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884320", "title": "Splendid China Folk Village", "text": "Splendid China Folk Village\n\nSplendid China Folk Village (Chinese: 锦绣中华民俗村, pinyin: Jǐnxiù Zhōnghuá Mínsú Cūn) is a theme park including two areas (Splendid China Miniature Park & China Folk Culture Village) located in Shenzhen, Guangdong province, People's Republic of China. The park's theme reflects the history, culture, art, ancient architecture, customs and habits of various nationalities. It is one of the world's largest scenery parks in the amount of scenarios reproduced. The park is developed and managed by the major travel and tourist corporation, China Travel Service.\n\nSplendid China is situated by the Shenzhen Bay in a tourist area of Overseas Chinese Town (OCT) in the Shenzhen Special Economic Zone. It is a 35-40 minute train ride from Luohu Station on Line 1 of the Shenzhen Metro or 30 minutes by bus (bus number 101 or mini-bus 23 are two examples).\n\nTime: 9.00 am to 9.00 pm\n\nEntry Closing time: 6.00 pm\n1 Day ticket\n\nTicket Price: RMB 220\n\nChild Ticket: RMB 90 (height 1.2 m to 1.5m)\n\nSmall kids; free (smaller than 1.2m height)\n\nAnnual Ticket\n\nSolo Annual Ticket: RMB 360 (only 1 person can use)\n\nParent Annual Ticket: RMB 460 (One parent with 1 child under 1.5 m)\n\nFamily Annual Ticket: RMB 660 (Two parents with 1 child under 1.5 m)\n\"Note: Annual Ticket prices as per February 2011. Solo as in November 2015\"\n\nOver 100 major tourist attractions have been miniaturized and laid out according to the map of China. Most attractions have been reduced on a scale of 1:15. It is divided into Scenic Spot Area and Comprehensive Service Area. The entire park covers 30 hectares.\n\nThere are cars and trains to transport visitors around the park, making it possible to visit the Great Wall of China, Forbidden City, Temple of Heaven, Summer Palace, Three Gorges Dam, Potala Palace and the Terracotta Army in one day.\n\nThe park also hosts several shows depicting various events in Chinese History (e.g. a horse riding show depicting a battle led by Genghis Khan), Chinese Cultural Show, etc. Some of the shows are only performed on weekends.\n\nAsteroid 3088 Jinxiuzhonghua was named after the park. Chinese Folk Culture Village is adjacent to the park in Shenzhen.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1884321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884321", "title": "Ming Cult", "text": "Ming Cult\n\nThe Ming Cult is a fictional cult and martial arts sect featured in the \"wuxia\" novel \"The Heaven Sword and Dragon Saber\" by Jin Yong, first published in serial form from 1961 to 1963. It is also briefly mentioned in \"The Legend of the Condor Heroes\", another novel also by Jin Yong. It is loosely based on Manichaeism, an actual gnostic religion which originated in Persia and spread to other parts of the world, including China. The cult is based on Bright Peak in the Kunlun Mountains and has several other bases spread throughout the land. Its most powerful skills are the 'Heaven and Earth Great Shift' (乾坤大挪移) and the 'Martial Arts of the Holy Flame Tablets' (聖火令武功).\n\nIn \"The Heaven Sword and Dragon Saber\", the Ming Cult is also known as the \"Cult of Mani\" (摩尼教) to martial artists in the \"jianghu\" but its more common name is \"Mójiào\" (魔教), which literally means \"Demonic Cult\". The cult originated in Persia and spread to China in the seventh century.\n\nThe cult is secretive and conducts its activities far away from the eyes of other sects in the \"wǔlín\" (武林 \"martial artists' community\"). Its founding principles also deviate largely from other sects. While others typically seek to achieve a dominant position in the \"wǔlín\", the Ming Cult strongly adheres to its faith and laws, which revolve around the notion of \"delivering humankind from suffering and eliminating evil\". This is aptly summed up in a mantra widely repeated by its members, which goes:\nThe cult is actually a righteous sect and not an evil cult as it is perceived in the \"wǔlín\". Though it was welcomed during the Tang dynasty, it faces persecution later on by the government during the Song dynasty due to slanderous remarks made by its enemies in the imperial court. Apart from that, many martial artists and sects in the \"wǔlín\" who are unaware of the cult's real motives due to its conservative nature often speculate that it is inherently evil and start spreading rumors. The cult's image in society and in the \"wǔlín\" is adversely affected and marred, and it often struggles to survive in the face of powerful rivals who seek to destroy it.\n\nDuring the Mongol-led Yuan dynasty, the Ming Cult starts a rebellion to overthrow the corrupt Yuan government and restore peace and order. However, its objective is not echoed by other sects and the common people; conversely, it faces hostility from them. The six leading orthodox sects in the \"wǔlín\" – Shaolin, Wudang, Emei, Kunlun, Kongtong and Mount Hua – form an alliance to attack the cult at its headquarters on Bright Peak.\n\nThe Ming Cult's newly elected leader, Zhang Wuji, resolves the conflict and opens the cult to the \"wǔlín\" for the first time. Views and attitudes towards the cult start to change for the better, and the cult earns strong support in its mission to topple the Yuan government. Zhang Wuji eventually passes the leadership of the Ming Cult to Yang Xiao and retires from the \"jianghu\". Zhu Yuanzhang, a minor leader in the cult, betrays his fellows and unites all rebel factions in China under his control. He ultimately topples the Yuan dynasty, defeats his rivals such as Chen Youliang, and establishes the Ming dynasty.\n\nThe cult is headed by its leader, called the \"jiàozhǔ\" (教主 \"Cult Master\"). The Left and Right Bright Messengers (左右光明使) serve as the leader's deputies. The cult also has four Guardian Kings (護教法王) who assist the leader in overseeing the cult's activities. Ranked below the Guardian Kings are the chiefs of the five banner divisions (旗主). The five divisions are each named after one of the Five Elements (Earth, Fire, Water, Wood, Metal). The cult's members are spread throughout these five banners. The cult has headquarters and bases spread throughout the land and are often disguised as ordinary buildings, such as inns and shops, to avoid identification by the government. The cult's main headquarters, called the \"zǒngtán\" (總壇), is based on Bright Peak (光明頂) in the Kunlun Mountains.\n\nThe Ming Cult's structure in Persia differs from the one in China. In Persia, the cult is led by a woman who is selected from three specially chosen virgins called \"Holy Maidens\" (聖女). There are twelve Guardian Kings (寶樹王) instead of four. The Three Messengers (Wind, Cloud and Moon) are tasked with safekeeping the Holy Flame Tablets, the cult's most sacred artifacts. They are also the most powerful in martial arts of all the cult's members in Persia.\n\nThe Heavenly Eagle Cult () was founded by one of the Ming Cult's Guardian Kings, \"White Brows Eagle King\" Yin Tianzheng. Yin left the Ming Cult in anger during its internal conflict and established his own sect. The Heavenly Eagle Cult does not follow the Ming Cult's original practices and customs but its members are still morally disciplined. The Heavenly Eagle Cult is often regarded as a branch of the Ming Cult and deemed to be as equally evil and unorthodox in the \"wulin\" because of Yin Tianzheng's affiliation with the Ming Cult. The Heavenly Eagle Cult merges with the Ming Cult after Yin Tianzheng's maternal grandson, Zhang Wuji, becomes the new leader of the Ming Cult.\n\nThe names \"Ming Jiao\" (明教; literally \"Religion of Light\") and \"Moni Jiao\" (摩尼教; literally \"Religion of Mani\") were used in China during the Song dynasty to describe the faith practiced by Chinese adherents of Manichaeism such as the White Lotus.\n"}
{"id": "1884336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884336", "title": "Wigner quasiprobability distribution", "text": "Wigner quasiprobability distribution\n\nThe Wigner quasiprobability distribution (also called the Wigner function or the Wigner–Ville distribution after Eugene Wigner and ) is a quasiprobability distribution. It was introduced by Eugene Wigner in 1932 to study quantum corrections to classical statistical mechanics. The goal was to link the wavefunction that appears in Schrödinger's equation to a probability distribution in phase space.\n\nIt is a generating function for all spatial autocorrelation functions of a given quantum-mechanical wavefunction .\nThus, it maps on the quantum density matrix in the map between real phase-space functions and Hermitian operators introduced by Hermann Weyl in 1927, in a context related to representation theory in mathematics (cf. Weyl quantization in physics). In effect, it is the Wigner–Weyl transform of the density matrix, so the realization of that operator in phase space. It was later rederived by Jean Ville in 1948 as a quadratic (in signal) representation of the local time-frequency energy of a signal, effectively a spectrogram.\n\nIn 1949, José Enrique Moyal, who had derived it independently, recognized it as the quantum moment-generating functional, and thus as the basis of an elegant encoding of all quantum expectation values, and hence quantum mechanics, in phase space (cf. phase space formulation). It has applications in statistical mechanics, quantum chemistry, quantum optics, classical optics and signal analysis in diverse fields such as electrical engineering, seismology, time–frequency analysis for music signals, spectrograms in biology and speech processing, and engine design.\n\nA classical particle has a definite position and momentum, and hence it is represented by a point in phase space. Given a collection (ensemble) of particles, the probability of finding a particle at a certain position in phase space is specified by a probability distribution, the Liouville density. This strict interpretation fails\nfor a quantum particle, due to the uncertainty principle. Instead, the above quasiprobability Wigner distribution plays an analogous role, but does not satisfy all the properties of a conventional probability distribution; and, conversely, satisfies boundedness properties unavailable to classical distributions.\n\nFor instance, the Wigner distribution can and normally does take on negative values for states which have no classical model—and is a convenient indicator of quantum mechanical interference. (See below for a characterization of pure states whose Wigner functions are non-negative.)\nSmoothing the Wigner distribution through a filter of size larger than (e.g., convolving with a\nphase-space Gaussian, a Weierstrass transform, to yield the Husimi representation, below), results in a positive-semidefinite function, i.e., it may be thought to have been coarsened to a semi-classical one.\n\nRegions of such negative value are provable (by convolving them with a small Gaussian) to be \"small\": they cannot extend to compact regions larger than a few , and hence disappear in the classical limit. They are shielded by the uncertainty principle, which does not allow precise location within phase-space regions smaller than , and thus renders such \"negative probabilities\" less paradoxical.\n\nThe Wigner distribution of a pure state is defined as:\n\nwhere is the wavefunction and and are position and momentum but could be any conjugate variable pair (e.g. real and imaginary parts of the electric field or frequency and time of a signal). Note that it may have support in even in regions where has no support in (\"beats\").\n\nIt is symmetric in and ,\nwhere is the normalized momentum-space wave function, proportional to the Fourier transform of .\n\nIn 3D,\n\nIn the general case, which includes mixed states, it is the Wigner transform of the density matrix,\nwhere ⟨\"x\"|\"ψ\"⟩ = . This Wigner transformation (or map) is the inverse of the Weyl transform, which maps phase-space functions to Hilbert-space operators, in Weyl quantization.\n\nThus, the Wigner function is the cornerstone of quantum mechanics in phase space.\n\nIn 1949, José Enrique Moyal elucidated\nhow the Wigner function provides the integration measure (analogous\nto a probability density function) in phase space, to yield expectation values from phase-space c-number functions uniquely associated to suitably ordered operators through Weyl's transform (cf. Wigner–Weyl transform and property 7 below), in a manner evocative of classical probability theory.\n\nSpecifically, an operator's expectation value is a \"phase-space average\" of the Wigner transform of that operator,\n\n1. \"W\"(\"x\", \"p\") is a real valued function.\n\n2. The \"x\" and \"p\" probability distributions are given by the marginals:\n\n3. \"W\"(\"x\", \"p\") has the following reflection symmetries:\n\n4. \"W\"(\"x\", \"p\") is Galilei-covariant:\n\n5. The equation of motion for each point in the phase space is classical in the absence of forces:\nIn fact, it is classical even in the presence of harmonic forces.\n\n6. State overlap is calculated as:\n\n7. Operator expectation values (averages) are calculated as\nphase-space averages of the respective Wigner transforms:\n\n8. In order that \"W\"(\"x\", \"p\") represent physical (positive) density matrices:\nfor all pure states |θ〉.\n\n9. By virtue of the Cauchy–Schwarz inequality, for a pure state, it is constrained to be bounded,\n\nThis bound disappears in the classical limit, \"ħ\" → 0. In this limit, \"W\"(\"x\", \"p\") reduces to the probability density in coordinate space \"x\", usually highly localized, multiplied by δ-functions in momentum: the classical limit is \"spiky\". Thus, this quantum-mechanical bound precludes a Wigner function which is a perfectly localized delta function in phase space, as a reflection of the uncertainty principle.\n\nThe Wigner transformation is a general invertible transformation of an operator on a Hilbert space to a function \"g(x,p)\" on phase space, and is given by\n\nHermitian operators map to real functions. The inverse of this transformation,\nso from phase space to Hilbert space, is called the Weyl transformation,\n(not to be confused with the distinct Weyl transformation in differential geometry).\n\nThe Wigner function \"W\"(\"x,p\") discussed here is thus seen to be the Wigner transform of the density matrix operator \"ρ̂\". Thus, the trace of an operator with the density matrix Wigner-transforms to the equivalent phase-space integral overlap of \"g\"(\"x\", \"p\") with the Wigner function.\n\nThe Wigner transform of the von Neumann evolution equation of the density matrix in the Schrödinger picture is\nwhere H(x,p) is Hamiltonian and { {•, •} } is the Moyal bracket. In the classical limit \"ħ\" → 0, the Moyal bracket reduces to the Poisson bracket, while this evolution equation reduces to the Liouville equation of classical statistical mechanics.\n\nStrictly formally, in terms of quantum characteristics, the solution of\nthis evolution equation reads, formula_22,\nwhere formula_23 and formula_24 are solutions of\nso-called quantum Hamilton's equations, subject to initial conditions\nformula_25 and formula_26, and where formula_27-product\ncomposition is understood for all argument functions.\n\nSince, however, formula_27-composition is thoroughly nonlocal (the \"quantum probability fluid\" diffuses, as observed by Moyal), vestiges of local trajectories\nare normally barely discernible in the evolution of the Wigner distribution function.\nIn the integral representation of -products, successive operations by them have been adapted to a phase-space path-integral, to solve this evolution equation for the Wigner function (see also ).\nThis non-trajectoral feature of Moyal time evolution is illustrated in Figs 5,6,7, below, for Hamiltonians more complex than the oscillator (in some contrast to the quasi-classical oscillator evolution of Fig 4.)\nThe Wigner function allows one to study the classical limit, offering a comparison of the classical and quantum dynamics in phase space.\n\nIt has recently been suggested that the Wigner function approach can be viewed as a quantum analogy to the operatorial formulation of classical mechanics introduced in 1932 by Bernard Koopman and John von Neumann: the time evolution of the Wigner function approaches, in the limit \"ħ\" → 0, the time evolution of the Koopman–von Neumann wavefunction of a classical particle.\nThe truncated Wigner approximation is a semiclassical approximation to the dynamics obtained by replacing Moyal's equation with the classical Liouville's equation.\n\nAs already noted, the Wigner function of quantum state typically takes some negative values. Indeed, for a pure state in one variable, if formula_29 for all formula_30 and formula_31, then the wave function must have the form\nfor some complex numbers formula_33 with formula_34 (Hudson's theorem). Note that formula_35 is allowed to be complex, so that formula_36 is not necessarily a Gaussian wave packet in the usual sense. Thus, pure states with non-negative Wigner functions are not necessarily minimum uncertainty states in the sense of the Heisenberg uncertainty formula; rather, they give equality in the Schrödinger uncertainty formula, which includes an anticommutator term in addition to the commutator term. (With careful definition of the respective variances, all pure state Wigner functions lead to Heisenberg's inequality all the same.)\n\nIn higher dimensions, the characterization of pure states with non-negative Wigner functions is similar; the wave function must have the form\nwhere formula_38 is a symmetric complex matrix whose real part is positive definite, formula_39 is a complex vector, and is a complex number. The Wigner function of any such state is a Gaussian distribution on phase space.\n\nThe cited paper of Soto and Claverie gives an elegant proof of this characterization, using the Segal–Bargmann transform. The reasoning is as follows. The Husimi Q function of formula_36 may be computed as the squared magnitude of the Segal–Bargmann transform of formula_36, multiplied by a Gaussian. Meanwhile, the Husimi Q function is the convolution of the Wigner function with a Gaussian. If the Wigner function of formula_36 is non-negative everywhere on phase space, then the Husimi Q function will be strictly positive everywhere on phase space. Thus, the Segal–Bargmann transform formula_43 of formula_36 will be nowhere zero. Thus, by a standard result from complex analysis, we have\nfor some holomorphic function formula_46. But in order for formula_47 to belong to the Segal–Bargmann space—that is, for formula_47 to be square-integrable with respect to a Gaussian measure—formula_46 must have at most quadratic growth at infinity. From this, elementary complex analysis can be used to show that formula_46 must actually be a quadratic polynomial. Thus, we obtain an explicit form of the Segal–Bargmann transform of any pure state whose Wigner function is non-negative. We can then invert the Segal–Bargmann transform to obtain the claimed form of the position wave function.\n\nThere does not appear to be any simple characterization of mixed states with non-negative Wigner functions.\n\nIt has been shown that the Wigner quasiprobability distribution function can be regarded as an -deformation of another phase space distribution function that describes an ensemble of de Broglie–Bohm causal trajectories. Basil Hiley has shown that the quasi-probability distribution may be understood as the density matrix re-expressed in terms of a mean position and momentum of a \"cell\" in phase space, and the de Broglie–Bohm interpretation allows one to describe the dynamics of the centers of such \"cells\".\n\nThere is a close connection between the description of quantum states in terms of the Wigner function and a method of quantum states reconstruction in terms of mutually unbiased bases.\n\n\n\nThe Wigner distribution was the first quasiprobability distribution to be formulated, but many more followed, formally equivalent and transformable to and from it (viz. Transformation between distributions in time–frequency analysis). As in the case of coordinate systems, on account of varying properties, several such have with various advantages for specific applications:\nNevertheless, in some sense, the Wigner distribution holds a privileged position among all these distributions, since it is the \"only one\" whose requisite star product drops out (integrates out by parts to effective unity) in the evaluation of expectation values, as illustrated above, and so \"can\" be visualized as a quasiprobability measure analogous to the classical ones.\n\nAs indicated, the formula for the Wigner function was independently derived several times in different contexts. In fact, apparently, Wigner was unaware that even within the context of quantum theory, it had been introduced previously by Heisenberg and Dirac, albeit purely formally: these two missed its significance, and that of its negative values, as they merely considered it as an approximation to the full quantum description of a system such as the atom. (Incidentally, Dirac would later become Wigner's brother-in-law, marrying his sister Manci.) Symmetrically, in most of his legendary 18-month correspondence with Moyal in the mid-1940s, Dirac was unaware that Moyal's quantum-moment generating function was effectively the Wigner function, and it was Moyal who finally brought it to his attention.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1884337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884337", "title": "Oleg Troyanovsky", "text": "Oleg Troyanovsky\n\nOleg Alexandrovich Troyanovsky (24 November 1919 – 21 December 2003) was ambassador of the Soviet Union to Japan and China and was the Soviet Permanent Representative to the United Nations (from 1976 to 1986).\n\nTroyanovsky was born into a diplomatic family. His father, Aleksandr A. Troyanovsky, served as the first Soviet ambassador to the United States from 1934 to 1938 and was also Soviet Ambassador to Japan from 1929-1932. Although he was born in Moscow, Oleg attended The American School in Japan, the Sidwell Friends School in Washington, D.C., and Swarthmore College in Pennsylvania. At Swarthmore in the 1930s, Troyanovsky allegedly recruited his American classmate Stephen Laird as a Soviet spy.\n\nTroyanovsky returned to the Soviet Union to complete his education at the Moscow Institute for Foreign Languages and Moscow University. After spending two years as a soldier in the Red Army, Troyanovsky joined the Russian Foreign Ministry to work as a foreign policy assistant and interpreter for Soviet leaders Joseph Stalin and adviser to Nikita Khrushchev.\n\nTroyanovsky served as the Soviet Union's ambassador to Japan before he was appointed to the United Nations. In 1980, two members of a dissident Marxist group sneaked into the U.N. Security Council chamber and threw red paint on Troyanovsky and U.S. Ambassador William vanden Heuvel. The Russian's response: \"Better red than dead.\" In 1983, when listening to the recording of Soviet fighter pilots shooting down Korean Air Flight 007 jumbo jet near Moneron Island that killed carrying 269 people, Troyanovsky remained poker-faced and impassive.\n\nFrom 1986 to 1990, he held his final diplomatic post as the ambassador to China. Troyanovsky spent his retirement years working on his memoirs and giving lectures in Russia and abroad.\n\n"}
{"id": "1884339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884339", "title": "Community separator", "text": "Community separator\n\nIn urban planning in the United States, a community separator (or simply a separator) is a parcel of undeveloped land, sometimes in the form of open space, separating two or more urban areas under different municipal jurisdictions which has been designated to provide a permanent low-density area preserving the communal integrity of the two municipalities. Separators are typically created by one or more municipalities in situations of rapid urban growth, where unchecked development might otherwise result in the contiguity of the urban areas. A unilateral separator that partially or completely encircles a municipality is commonly known as a greenbelt.\n\nSeparators often consist of undeveloped farmland, forests, floodplains, or other areas that may or may not be desirable for residential or commercial development. The enactment of a separator is commonly achieved through a variety of different means, including conservation easements, outright purchase of land for parks, or zoning restrictions. Separators are often enacted along major highways connecting municipalities in order to preserve the open viewshed that provides a natural boundary between two communities.\n\nSeparators are sometimes controversial since they can withdraw desirable development land from the marketplace, resulting not only in the loss of tax revenue but also incurring the cost of acquiring and managing the land. \n"}
{"id": "1884341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884341", "title": "The Dark Tunnel", "text": "The Dark Tunnel\n\nThe Dark Tunnel is the first novel by \"one of the giants of twentieth century crime fiction\", Kenneth Millar. The first edition was published by Dodd, Mead & Co. in 1944 New York, a fine-condition copy of which was priced at . Millar's biography describes \"The Dark Tunnel\" as \"a hybrid of old-fashioned puzzle-mystery, Buchanesque spy adventure, and Chandleresque exposé of sexual perversion.\n\nAs an author, Miller was influenced by John Buchan and Raymond Chandler, with \"The Dark Tunnel\" bearing a strong resemblance to \"The Thirty-Nine Steps\", and echoing Chandler's hallmarks of \"rough-and-ready humor, its extravagant similes, and its more lurid events and descriptions\".\n\nMillar's protagonist is Professor Robert Branch, a dichotomous character heavily influenced by the Professor Millar himself. Branch has studied T. S. Eliot, W. C. Handy, Norse mythology, and Shakespeare; Branch is skilled in lock picking, athletic, and possesses a Doctor of Philosophy.\n"}
{"id": "1884345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884345", "title": "Binah (Kabbalah)", "text": "Binah (Kabbalah)\n\nBinah (meaning \"understanding\"; \"bīnāh\"), is the third \"sephira\" on the kabbalistic Tree of Life. It sits on the level below Keter (in the formulations that include that \"sephirah\"), across from Chokhmah and directly above Gevurah. It is usually given four paths: to Keter, Chokhmah, Gevurah, and Tiphereth (some Kabbalists place a path from Binah to Chesed as well.)\n\nBinah is associated with the color black.\n\nAccording to the Bahir: \"The third (utterance): quarry of the Torah, treasury of wisdom, quarry of God's spirit, hewn out by the spirit of God. This teaches that God hewed out all the letters of the Torah, engraving them with the Spirit, casting His forms within it\".\n\nBinah is 'intuitive understanding', or 'contemplation'. It is likened to a 'palace of mirrors' that reflects the pure point of light of Chokhmah, wisdom, increasing and multiplying it in an infinite variety of ways. In this sense, it is the 'quarry', which is carved out by the light of wisdom. It is the womb, which gives shape to the Spirit of God. On a psychological level, Binah is \"processed wisdom,\" also known as deductive reasoning. It is \"davar mitoch davar\"—understanding one idea from another idea. While Chokhmah is intellect that does not emanate from the rational process (it is either inspired or taught), Binah is the rational process that is innate in the person which works to develop an idea fully.\n\nBinah is associated with the feminine. The Bahir states: \"For you shall call Understanding a Mother.\" Classical Jewish texts state \"Binah yeterah natun l'nashim\" (\"an extra measure of Binah was given to women\").\n\nIn its fully articulated form, Binah possesses two \"partzufim\". The higher of these is referred to as \"Imma Ila'ah\" (\"the higher mother\"), whereas the lower is referred to as \"tevunah\" (\"comprehension\"). These two \"partzufim\" are referred to jointly as \"Imma\" (\"the mother\").\n\nIn the medieval text the \"Tomer Devorah\", Moses ben Jacob Cordovero elucidated the ethical qualities associated with each \"sefira\", which one must attempt to imitate. The attribute associated with Binah is complete repentance, for 'just as Binah sweetens all severities and neutralizes their bitterness, one should repent and rectify all flaws'.\n\nIn Western esotericism, Binah is seen to take the raw force of Chokhmah, and to channel it into the various forms of creation. For example, in a car, you have the fuel and an engine. While Chokhmah is the fuel, pure energy, Binah is the engine, pure receptivity. Either one without the other is useless.\n\nIn its role as the ultimate Object, as opposed to Chokhmah as the Subject, its role is similar to the role of Shakti in Indian mysticism. It is feminine, because it literally gives birth to the whole of creation, providing the supernal womb, with Chokhmah providing the raw energy.\n\nThe name of God associated with Binah is Jehovah Elohim, the archangel that presides over it is Tzaphkiel, the order of angels that resides in it are the Aralim (the Thrones) and the planet associated with it is Saturn.\n\nBinah is related to the Yoni, the womb, the Priestess card in the occult tarot (according to A. E. Waite's \"Pictorial Key to the Tarot\"). Aleister Crowley's \"Liber 777\" associates it with Isis, Cybele, Demeter, Rhea, Woman, The Virgin Mary, Juno, Hecate, The \"threes\" of the Tarot, etc.\n\nOccultists have compared the Sephira with the \"chakras\" of Indian mysticism, and one such comparison is in comparing both Binah and Chokhmah with the Ajna chakra, which is where both Shiva and Shakti are united.\n\nFor its negative opposite on the Tree of Death, it has the demonic order Sathariel, ruled by the Archdemon Lucifuge Rofocale.\n\nIn the correlation of Binah with Shakti and Chokhmah with Shiva, Shakti is the animating life force whereas Shiva is dead, a corpse, without her energy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1884352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884352", "title": "Chesed", "text": "Chesed\n\nChesed (, also Romanized \"ḥesed\") is a Hebrew word.\n\nIn its positive sense, the word is used of kindness or love between people, of piety of people towards God as well as of love or mercy of God towards humanity. It is frequently used in Psalms in the latter sense, where it is traditionally translated \"lovingkindness\" in English translations.\n\nIn Jewish theology it is likewise used of God's love for the Children of Israel, and in Jewish ethics it is used for love or charity between people. Chesed in this latter sense of \"charity\" is considered a virtue on its own, and also for its contribution to \"tikkun olam\" (repairing the world). It is also considered the foundation of many religious commandments practiced by traditional Jews, especially interpersonal commandments. \n\n\"Chesed\" is also one of the ten Sephirot on the Kabbalistic Tree of Life. It is given the association of kindness and love, and is the first of the emotive attributes of the \"sephirot\".\n\nThe root \"chasad\" has a primary meaning of \"eager and ardent desire\", used both in the sense \"good, kind\" and \"shame, contempt\". The noun \"chesed\" inherits both senses, on one hand \"zeal, love, kindness towards someone\" and on the other \"zeal, ardour against someone; envy, reproach\". In its positive is used of mutual benevolence, mercy or pity between people, of piety of people towards God, as well as grace, favour or mercy of God towards people.\n\nIt occurs 248 times in the Hebrew Bible. In the majority of cases (149 times), the King James Bible translation is \"mercy\", following LXX \"eleos\". Less frequent translations are: \"kindness\" (40 times), \"lovingkindness\" (30 times), \"goodness\" (12 times), \"kindly\" (5 times), \"merciful\" (4 times), \"favour\" (3 times) and \"good\", \"goodliness\", \"pity\" (once each).\nOnly two instances of the noun in its negative sense are in the text, translated \"reproach\" in Psalm 57:3, and \"wicked thing\" in Leviticus 20:17.\n\nThe translation of \"loving kindness\" in KJV is derived from the Coverdale Bible of 1535. This particular translation is used exclusively of \"chesed\" used of the benign attitude of YHWH (\"the \") or Elohim (\"God\") towards his chosen, primarily invoked in Psalms (23 times), but also in the prophets, four times in Jeremiah, twice in Isaiah 63:7 and once in Hosea 2:19. While \"lovingkindness\" is now considered somewhat archaic, it is part of the traditional rendition of Psalms in English Bible translations. Some more recent translations use \"steadfast love\" where KJV has \"lovingkindness\".\n\nThe Septuagint has \"mega eleos\" \"great mercy\", rendered as Latin \"misericordia\".\nAs an example of the use of \"chesed\" in Psalms, consider its notable occurrence at the beginning of Psalm 51 (, lit. \"be favourable to me, Elohim, as your chesed\"):\nIn Judaism, \"love\" is often used as a shorter English translation. Political theorist Daniel Elazar has suggested that \"chesed\" cannot easily be translated into English, but that it means something like \"loving covenant obligation\". Other suggestions include \"grace\" and \"compassion\".\n\nIn traditional musar literature (ethical literature), chesed is one of the primary virtues. The tannaic rabbi Simon the Just taught: \"The world rests upon three things: Torah, service to God, and bestowing kindness\" (Pirkei Avot 1:2). Chesed is here the core ethical virtue.\n\nA statement by Rabbi Simlai in the Talmud claims that \"The Torah begins with chesed and ends with chesed.\" This may be understood to mean that \"the entire Torah is characterized by chesed, i.e. it sets forth a vision of the ideal life whose goals are behavior characterized by mercy and compassion.\" Alternatively, it may allude to the idea that the giving of the Torah itself is the quintessential act of chesed.\n\nIn Moses ben Jacob Cordovero's kabbalistic treatise \"Tomer Devorah\", the following are actions undertaken in imitation of the qualities of Chesed:\n\nA person who embodies \"chesed\" is known as a \"chasid\" (hasid, חסיד), one who is faithful to the covenant and who goes \"above and beyond that which is normally required\" and a number of groups throughout Jewish history which focus on going \"above and beyond\" have called themselves \"chasidim\". These groups include the Hasideans of the Second Temple period, the Maimonidean Hasidim of medieval Egypt and Palestine, the Chassidei Ashkenaz in medieval Europe, and the Hasidic movement which emerged in eighteenth century Eastern Europe.\n\nIn Modern Hebrew, חסד can take the generic meaning of \"charity\", and a \"chesed institution\" in modern Judaism \nmay refer to any charitable organization run by religious Jewish groups or individuals.\nCharitable organizations described as \"chesed institutions\" include:\n\nThe first three of the ten \"sephirot\" are the attributes of the intellect, while \"chesed\" is the first \"sephira\" of the attribute of action. In the kabbalistic Tree of life, its position is below Chokhmah, across from Gevurah and above Netzach. It is usually given four paths: to \"chokhmah\", \"gevurah\", \"tiphereth\", and \"netzach\" (some Kabbalists place a path from \"chesed\" to \"binah\" as well.)\n\nThe \"Bahir\" states, \"What is the fourth (utterance): The fourth is the righteousness of God, His mercies and kindness with the entire world. This is the right hand of God.\" Chesed manifests God's absolute, unlimited benevolence and kindness.\n\nThe angelic order of this sphere is the Hashmallim, ruled by the Archangel Zadkiel. The opposing Qliphah is represented by the demonic order Gamchicoth, ruled by the Archdemon Astaroth.\n\n"}
{"id": "1884354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884354", "title": "USS Lexington (1825)", "text": "USS Lexington (1825)\n\nThe second USS \"Lexington\" was a sloop in the United States Navy built at the New York Navy Yard in Brooklyn, New York, in 1825; and commissioned on 11 June 1826, Master Commandant William B. Shubrick in command.\n\nThe new sloop was first stationed off Labrador to protect American fishing vessels. After returning to the United States, she was sent to Trinidad to return the body of Commodore Oliver Hazard Perry who had died in schooner on 23 August 1819 while returning from Angostura, Venezuela, where he had arranged for Venezuelan help to suppress piracy off the Spanish Main.\n\nIn 1827 \"Lexington\" sailed to the Mediterranean Sea where she cruised for three years. In 1828, her commander, Benjamin W. Booth, likely commissioned the above painting while she was off the coast of Smyrna. Returning to Norfolk, Virginia in the fall of 1830, she decommissioned at Norfolk Navy Yard on 16 November. Recommissioning on 31 May 1831, Master Commandant Silas M. Duncan in command, she proceeded to São Paulo, Brazil, for duty with the Brazil Squadron until late 1836. Notably, in 1831 Duncan raided Luis Vernet's settlement at Puerto Luis in the Falkland Islands where the American ships \"Harriet\", \"Superior\" and \"Breakwater\" had been captured in a dispute over fishing and seal hunting rights, prompting Duncan to take seven prisoners aboard the \"Lexington\" and charge them with piracy; which precipitated the re-establishment of British rule. She then sailed around Cape Horn to protect American commerce on the Pacific coast. On 1 March 1834 at Rio de Janeiro, diplomatist Edmund Roberts, then returning from his first mission aboard \"Peacock\", boarded \"Lexington\" under the command of Captain M’Keever for return to Boston Harbor on 24 April.\n\nReturning to the east coast in 1840, \"Lexington\" was converted into a store ship and her 24 medium 24-pounders were replaced by six 32-pounder carronades. In April 1843, she sailed to the Mediterranean and served there for two years.\n\nThe outbreak of war with Mexico in the spring of 1846 found \"Lexington\" operating along the west coast of North America. During the conflict, she transported troops and assisted in the blockade. On 12 January 1847, she landed a party at San Blas, Nayarit, and captured several enemy guns. After the war \"Lexington\" remained on the California coast, a source of stability and security during the territory's transition to U.S. control and in the earlier months of the gold rush of 1849.\n\nReturning to the United States East Coast early in 1850, \"Lexington\" operated on the eastern seaboard until getting underway from New York Harbor 18 June 1853 to join Commodore Matthew C. Perry's expedition to Japan. After the success of this notable expedition, \"Lexington\" remained in the Orient before returning to New York where she decommissioned on 26 February 1855. The sloop was sold in 1860.\n"}
{"id": "1884368", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884368", "title": "Telok Blangah", "text": "Telok Blangah\n\nTelok Blangah (, ) is a subzone region and housing estate located in the area behind Keppel Harbour in Bukit Merah, Singapore. \"Teluk Blanga\" is the district between Pasir Panjang and Tanjong Pagar. \n\nThe region is named after the bay. \"Telok Blangah\" (Jawi: تلوق بلڠه) is a Malay compound of \"blanga\" \"a type of cooking pot\" and \"telok\" \"bay\" and so literally means \"cooking pot bay\", so named on account of its shape.\n\n\"Teluk Blanga\" is known as \"sit lat mng\" in Hokkien, meaning \"Singapore gate\" or \"north west gate\".\n\nHistorically, this area is as old as the thirteenth century city of Temasek. According to the Malay Annals, Sang Nila Utama's boat ran into a storm and he threw everything overboard, including his crown before landing just off Telok Blangah beach.\n\nThe area gained prominence again during the British period when Sir Stamford Raffles in 1823 assigned Temenggong Abdul Rahman (died 1825) and his followers of land for their residence and a cemetery. The area flourished under Temenggong Abdul Rahman because of his monopoly over the gutta percha trade.\n\nTemenggong Abdul Rahman's eldest son, Tun Haji Abdullah, informally took over as Temenggong of Johor after his death in 1825, followed by his second son Daeng Ibrahim informally in 1833 and officially on 19 August 1841.\n\nIn 1845, Telok Blangah Hill (Malay: \"Bukit Telok Blangah\") was renamed to Mount Faber after Captain Charles Edward Faber.\n\nFollowing Temenggong Daeng Ibrahim’s death in 1862, his first son Temenggong Abu Bakar succeed him and moved his Istana to Tyersall. In 1885, when Maharaja Abu Bakar became the Sultan of Johor, he moved to Johor Bahru. \n\nThe former royal audience hall (now a mosque, Masjid Temenggong Daeng Ibrahim) and the Johor Royal Mausoleum still remain today at Telok Blangah Road, near VivoCity and Sentosa Gateway. The last to be buried was Ungku Modh. Khalif (or Khalid), the younger brother of Sultan Abu Bakar in 1900. \n\nTelok Blangah Road was officially named in 1907. The shrine of Puteri Radin Mas Ayu, a sixteenth-century Javanese princess, is located at Mount Faber Road, near the junction with Telok Blangah Road.\n\n"}
{"id": "1884371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884371", "title": "Technopole", "text": "Technopole\n\nTechnopole refers to a center of high-tech manufacturing and information-based quaternary industry. The term was coined by Allen J. Scott in 1990 to describe regions in Southern California which showed a rapid growth in high technology fields. This term now has a broader scope to describe regions worldwide dedicated to technological innovation. The components of a technopole usually comprise local firms, universities, financial institutions and public research organizations. Technopoles may be developed by the private sector or by the co-operation or partnership between the public and private sectors. Governments of all levels promote them as a panacea for economies hurt by economic restructuring. Large corporations and small business operate within these high technology areas. Networking between companies is important and made possible by technological advances. Technopoles are combined technological and business centers specifically established around recognized educational and research institutes.\n\nThere are several definitions for \"technopole\" in an international context, whereby focus is usually placed on the existence of four factors: \n\nFactors important to investors include: \n\nTechnopoles are also vulnerable to global trends and can dissolve quickly if they are not properly supported. Technopoles have to be flexible and willing to experiment with new ideas to be seen as a global competitor. Governments and corporations tend to continue to heavily invest in technopoles in hopes of gaining economic prosperity.\n\nTechnopoles in South Africa include regions of Pretoria, Johannesburg and East Rand. These areas have the largest concentration of national R&D facilities.\n\nIn Japan, technopoles were planned and developed by the Ministry of International Trade and Industry (MITI). Since 1983, there have been over 25 technopoles in Japan as designated by MITI. Some of the most successful technopoles in Japan include Okayama, Hiroshima, Yamaguchi and Kumamoto.\n\nUNIDO VietNam (United Nations Industrial Development Organization) has compiled in 2015 a list of Technopoles in the ASEAN Economic Community in a report titled \"Economic Zones in the ASEAN\" written by Arnault Morisson.\n\nIn Australia, technopoles include the Technology Precinct Bentley WA, La Trobe Research and Development Park, Ballarat Technology Park VIC, The Australian Technology Park NSW, Brisbane Technology Park QLD, Tasmanian Technopark and Adelaide University Research Park SA.\n\nTechnopoles in Germany include the IT-Cluster Rhine-Main-Neckar, the largest IT cluster in Europe.\n\nTechnopoles in the United Kingdom include counties such as Berkshire and Hampshire in the “Western Crescent” of London, as well as Hertfordshire in the Northern section of London.\n\nIn France, there are technopoles located near Rennes, Grenoble, Toulouse, Lyon and Paris.\n\nWriter Joel Stratte-McClure of \"Time Magazine\" described a technopole in southern France called \"Sophia Antipolis\" which had 1,200 companies in a sprawling development twenty minutes away from the airport in Nice. According to the report, the technopole featured hiking trails and jogging paths and riding stables and golf courses and signs which indicate the names of various species of plants, and with street names which were \"slightly pretentious\" such as \"Rue Dostoevski\" and \"Rue Albert Einstein\" criss-crossing rolling hills with pine trees. There are reflecting pools, although the layout was criticized as somewhat \"confusing\" for taxi drivers.\n\nThe Technopole Program of Lower Austria is a trendsetter in implementing the linkage of education/training, research and business. Lower Austria's three Technopoles are already setting international standards: Technopole Krems in the fields of biotech and regenerative medicine, Technopole Tulln in environmental biotechnology and agrobiotechnology, Technopole Wiener Neustadt in microsystems engineering, tribology and medical systems technology.\n\nIn Italy, a new technopole called \"Human Technopole\" and specialized in life sciences is under development in Milan.\n\nSilicon Valley is one of the most innovative technopoles in the world. It is located in the San Francisco Bay area of California. The area consists of a 70 kilometre by 15 kilometre radius stretching from Palo Alto to San Jose. In the late 1950s, there were little computing and technology jobs in the region, this quickly changed in the 1970s and 1980s where in 1985 there was a reported 56,126 jobs in the high-tech field.\nFrederick Terman, a professor at Stanford University who later became the Dean of electrical engineering, initiated many R&D initiatives in Silicon Valley. Terman helped his students, such as William Hewlett and David Packard, to initiate their own companies and at times even personally invested in them. In 1951, Terman also helped to establish Stanford Industrial Park.\n\nUniversities surrounding Silicon Valley have provided a constant stream of students who take interest in projects and companies within Silicon Valley. With the various numbers of small companies in the area, it is common for employees to move from one company to another. Employees tend to maintain informal social connections with past coworkers which expand professional and social networks. These expanded networks have enabled a rapid exchange of information resulting in the formation of new businesses, research, and development opportunities. Silicon Valley remains one of the leading technopoles of the world to date with its competitive entrepreneurs, its innovative workforce and its firm base of investors.\n\nRoute 128 is another technopole located in the United States. Route 128 was a stretch of highway in the Greater Boston Area with many research and industrial facilities The route linked many towns in the greater Boston area and many technology firms relocated there for its proximity to universities such as the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), Cambridge and Harvard.\n\nMIT played an integral role in establishing Route 128 as a technopole. MIT was established in 1861 as a technical university. After the Second World War, MIT encouraged technological innovation through commercially oriented research. Funding for research projects came from large corporations such as GE, Eastern Kodak, and Dupont, as well as the federal government. In 1930, the Division of Industrial Cooperation and Research which solicited research contracts from companies was discontinued, although MIT maintained its capacity to solicit corporate contracts. Many of research projects included electronic innovations and projects for the federal government. In 1941, the Office of Scientific Research and Development (OSRD) was created. During the 1940s and 1950s, MIT received one third of the OSRD's contracts, which was estimated at $330 million in contracts for research projects. Harvard University and other local universities also received funding for research projects alongside MIT. This area was named “Research Row”. Unlike Frederick Terman's approach of aiding start-up companies within Stanford University, MIT had a strict policy which would not invest in start-up companies of its students, as investing was considered risky and inconsistent with their policies. Despite MIT choosing not to invest in start-up organizations around the region, there were many technology firms that provided funding. MIT continues to solicit contracts from corporations and is still highly regarded as an institution that is a leader in technological innovations.\n\nOther technopoles in the United States include places such as Austin, TX; Denver-Boulder, CO; Huntsville, AL; Lafayette, IN; Madison, WI; Philadelphia-Wilmington-Trenton; Raleigh-Durham, NC; San Francisco-Oakland-San Jose and Seattle, Washington.\n\n"}
{"id": "1884378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884378", "title": "Euro convergence criteria", "text": "Euro convergence criteria\n\nThe euro convergence criteria (also known as the Maastricht criteria) are the criteria which European Union member states are required to meet to enter the third stage of the Economic and Monetary Union (EMU) and adopt the euro as their currency. The four main criteria, which actually comprise five criteria as the \"fiscal criterion\" consists of both a \"debt criterion\" and a \"deficit criterion\", are based on (ex article 121.1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union.\n\nFull EMU membership is only open to EU member states. However, the European microstates of Andorra, Monaco, San Marino and the Vatican City, which are not members of the EU, have signed monetary agreements with EU which allow them officially to adopt the euro and issue their own variant of euro coins. These states had all previously used one of the eurozone currencies replaced by the euro, or a currency pegged to one of them. These states are not members of the eurozone and do not get a seat in the European Central Bank (ECB) or the Eurogroup.\n\nAs part of the EU treaty, all of the EU Member States are obliged to adhere to the Stability and Growth Pact (SGP), which serves as a framework to ensure price stability and fiscal responsibility, has adopted identical limits for governments budget deficit and debt as the convergence criteria. Due to the fact that several countries did not exercise a sufficient level of fiscal responsibility during the first 10 years of the euro's lifetime, two major SGP reforms were recently introduced. The first reform was the Sixpack which entered into force in December 2011, and it was followed in January 2013 by the even more ambitious Fiscal Compact, which was signed by 25 out of the then-27 EU member states.\n\nCountries are expected to participate in the second version of the European Exchange Rate Mechanism (ERM-II) for two years before joining the Euro.\n\nThe Maastricht Treaty, which was signed in February 1992 and entered into force on 1 November 1993, outlined the 5 convergence criteria EU member states are required to comply with to adopt the new currency the euro. The purpose of setting the criteria was to achieve price stability within the eurozone and ensure it wasn't negatively impacted when new member states accede. The framework of the five criteria was outlined by of the Maastricht Treaty, and the attached and . The original treaty article was later renumbered to become article 121.1 of the Amsterdam Treaty, and later renumbered again to of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Aside from the renumbering, no significant change have happened to the content of the \"convergence criteria article\" and its referred to and . The precise definition and method of measuring compliance was subsequently further developed by the EMI (later known as ECB) in their first three reports published in April 1995, November 1995 and November 1996. The full definition of the five criteria are summarised below.\n\n\nThe ECB publishes a Convergence Report at least every two years to check how well the EU members aspiring for euro adoption comply with the criteria. The first full convergence report was published in November 1996, and concluded that only 3 out of 15 EU member states (Denmark, Luxembourg and Ireland) were completely compliant with the criteria at that point in time. As a majority of states were not in compliance, the Council decided to delay the introduction of the euro by two years to 1 January 1999. In March 1998 a more positive second convergence report concluded that 11 out of 12 applying countries were prepared for the electronic introduction of the euro on 1 January 1999, with only Greece failing to qualify by the deadline. Subsequent convergence reports have so far resulted in an additional 8 EU member states complying with all criteria and adopting the euro (Greece, Slovenia, Cyprus, Malta, Slovakia, Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania). The latest convergence report was published in June 2014, and checked for compliance in the reference year from May 2012 – April 2014, where Lithuania managed to fully comply – thus becoming the next 19th eurozone member. As the reference values for HICP inflation and long-term interest rates change on a monthly basis, any member state with a euro derogation has the right to ask the ECB for an updated compliance check, whenever they believe they have met all both economic and legal convergence criteria. For example, Latvia asked for such an extraordinary compliance check in March 2013 (outside the regular 2-year interval for automatic assessments).\n\nIn 2009, the authors of a confidential International Monetary Fund (IMF) report suggested that in light of the ongoing global financial crisis, the EU Council should consider granting new EU member states which are having difficulty complying with all five convergence criteria the option to \"partially adopt\" the euro, along the lines of the monetary agreements signed with the European microstates outside the EU. These states would gain the right to adopt the euro and issue a national variant of euro coins, but would not get a seat in ECB or the Eurogroup until they met all the convergence criteria. However, the EU has not made use of this alternative accession process.\n\nThe compliance check above was conducted in June 2014, with the HICP and interest rate reference values specifically applying for the last assessment month with available data (April 2014). As reference values for HICP and interest rates are subject for monthly changes, any EU member state with a euro derogation, has the right to ask for a renewed compliance check at any time during the year. For this potential extra assessment, the table below feature Eurostat's monthly recalculation of criteria values being used in the calculation process to determine the upper limit for HICP inflation and long-term interest rates, where a certain fixed buffer value is added to the moving yearly average for the three EU Member States with the lowest HICP figures (ignoring states classified as \"outliers\").\n\nThe black values in the table are sourced by the officially published convergence reports, while the lime-green values are only qualified estimates – not confirmed by any official convergence report – but sourced by monthly estimation reports published by the Polish Ministry of Finance. The reason why the lime-green values are only estimates, is because the \"outlier\" selection – ignoring certain states from the reference value calculation – beside of depending on a quantitative assessment also depends on a more complicated overall qualitative assessment, and hence it can not be predicted with absolute certainty who of the states the Commission will deem to be outliers. So any selection of outliers by the lime-green data lines – shall only be regarded as qualified estimates – which potentially could be different from those outliers which the Commission would have selected if they had published a specific report at the concerned point of time.\n\nThe national fiscal accounts for the previous full calendar year are released each year in April (next time 23 April 2015). As the compliance check for both the debt and deficit criteria always awaits this release in a new calendar year, the first possible month to request a compliance check will be April, which would result in a data check for the HICP and Interest rates during the reference year from 1 April to 31 March. Any EU Member State may also ask the European Commission to conduct a compliance check, at any point of time during the remainder of the year, with HICP and interest rates always checked for the past 12 months – while debt and deficit compliance always will be checked for the 3-year period encompassing the last completed full calendar year and the two subsequent forecast years. As of 12 September 2014, all of the remaining euro derogation states without an opt-out, had not yet entered ERM-II, which mean its highly unlikely any of them will ask the European Commission to conduct an extraordinary compliance check ahead of the publication of the next regular convergence report (scheduled for release in May/June 2016).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1884379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884379", "title": "Master–feeder investment structure", "text": "Master–feeder investment structure\n\nThe master–feeder structure is a technique for structuring investment funds. It allows asset managers to capture the efficiencies of larger pools of assets (\"see\" economics of scale) although fashioning investment funds to separate market niches.\n\nOne or more investment vehicles pool their portfolios within another vehicle – several smaller feeder funds contribute to one master fund.\n\nSometimes, especially when the feeders are hedge funds, this is a way of complying with the legal systems of distinct jurisdictions. For example, an onshore feeder fund and an offshore feeder fund contribute to the same master portfolio.\n\nThis is also sometimes called a \"hub and spoke\" structure.\n\nFor a U.S. taxable investor, the ownership of shares in what is known as a \"passive foreign investment company\" or PFIC can prove to be very tax-expensive. The offshore feeder fund almost always meets the definition of a PFIC. An (onshore) master fund does not, so the transaction is set up so that the master fund is a partnership for U.S. tax purposes, which effectively provides insulation between the US based investor and the PFIC feeder.\n\n"}
{"id": "1884380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884380", "title": "Super Punch-Out!! (arcade game)", "text": "Super Punch-Out!! (arcade game)\n\nAs in the original \"Punch-Out!!\", the player assumes the role of a green-haired boxer (later recast as Little Mac in the 1987 Nintendo Entertainment System version), known by three initials, who works through the ranks of the WVBA (World Video Boxing Association). During matches, the player's boxer is viewed from the rear as a wireframe so the opponents are visible to the player. The player must precisely time punches, dodges, and blocks in order to defeat the opposing boxer. Hints are given as to the opponent's next move by subtle eye changes, but the player must ultimately predict what moves the opponent will make and react appropriately.\n\nOnce the player defeats the final opponent, the player will win the Heavyweight Belt, then defend it against the same characters that have already been beaten. Each successive time they are met, the opponents are harder and quicker. In order to win a bout, the player must knock out the opponent within one 3-minute round; failure to do so results in an automatic loss. A technical knockout is awarded if either fighter is knocked down three times, but the opponent will sometimes fail to rise after the first or second knockdown.\n\nThe arcade game is housed in a modified upright cabinet. Like the previous game, it requires two vertically stacked monitors. The top monitor is used to display statistics while the bottom one is the main game display. It is otherwise a standard upright arcade cabinet. It has a joystick and three buttons. Two buttons control left and right punches, one for each arm. One button delivers a strong uppercut or right hook, but it only works when the super meter (also known as the KO meter or power meter) is full. The super meter is filled by landing successful punches. It is drained when the player fails to block or dodge an attack, or if the player is knocked down. Unlike the original, \"Super Punch Out!!\" also features a joystick which can be pulled straight up from the panel, allowing the player to duck opponents' punches.\n\nAn unlicensed version of it was released on December 31, 1985 for the Commodore 64, the ZX Spectrum, the Amstrad CPC, and in 1986 for the Commodore 16 and Commodore Plus/4 titled \"Frank Bruno's Boxing\". It was developed and published by Elite Systems exclusively in Europe. Instead of the nameable wireframe boxer, real-life boxer Frank Bruno stars as the protagonist of the game. Only the first three opponents of the \"Super Punch-Out!!\" arcade are included in the game; however, their names were changed. Bear Hugger was renamed \"Canadian Crusher\", Dragon Chan was renamed \"Fling Long Chop\", and Vodka Drunkenski was renamed \"Andra Puncharedov\". Five exclusive characters were added to the game: Tribal Trouble, Frenchie France, Raviolo Mafiosi, Antipodean Andy, and Peter Perfect. This version of the game features a KO meter, which is an early version of the \"Super meter\" used in modern fighting games, allowing a more powerful punch to be thrown when the bar is filled. Elite Systems later re-released the game as \"Frank Bruno's World Championship Boxing\" on their Encore budget label to coincide with the Mike Tyson vs. Frank Bruno bout of 1989.\n\nGreat Tiger, Super Macho Man, and Vodka Drunkenski appear in the 1987 Nintendo Entertainment System version of \"Punch-Out!!\" Vodka Drunkenski was renamed \"Soda Popinski\" in order to eliminate alcohol references in a family-oriented game.\n\nThe \"Super Punch-Out!!\" arcade inspired the development and release of \"Super Punch-Out!!\" for the Super Nintendo Entertainment System console in 1994. Several elements were slightly changed for this version. Characters from both \"Punch Out!!\" arcade games are featured in the game with basically the same looks and attacks. including Bear Hugger, Dragon Chan, and Super Macho Man.\n\nAs in the original \"Punch-Out!!\" arcade, Mario, Luigi, Donkey Kong, and Donkey Kong Junior all appear in the audience part of the \"Super Punch-Out!!\" arcade. Also, one of the victory tunes heard in the \"Super Punch-Out!!\" arcade was later used in Nintendo's 1985 \"Baseball\" for the NES as the home run theme.\n\n"}
{"id": "1884381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884381", "title": "A-not-B error", "text": "A-not-B error\n\nA-not-B error (also known as \"stage 4 error\" or \"perseverative error\") is a phenomenon uncovered by the work of Jean Piaget in his theory of cognitive development of children. The A-not-B error is a particular error made by infants during substage 4 of their sensorimotor stage. \n\nA typical A-not-B task goes like this: An experimenter hides an attractive toy under box \"A\" within the baby's reach. The baby searches for the toy, looks under box \"A\", and finds the toy. This activity is usually repeated several times (always with the researcher hiding the toy under box \"A\"). Then, in the critical trial, the experimenter moves the toy under box \"B\", also within easy reach of the baby. Babies of 10 months or younger typically make the perseveration error, meaning they look under box \"A\" even though they saw the researcher move the toy under box \"B\", and box \"B\" is just as easy to reach. This demonstrates a lack of, or incomplete, schema of object permanence. Children of 12 months or older typically do not make this error.\n\nTraditionally, this phenomenon has been explained as the child seeing an image and remembering where it was, rather than where it is. Other accounts deal with the development of planning, reaching, and deciding things. There are also behaviorist accounts that explain the behavior in terms of reinforcement. This account argues that the repeated trials with hiding the toy in box \"A\" is reinforcing that specific behavior, so that the child still reaches for box \"A\" because the action has been reinforced before. However, this account does not explain the shift in behavior that occurs around 12 months.\n\nSmith and Thelen used a dynamic systems approach to the A-not-B task. They found that various components of the activity (strength of memory trace, salience of targets, waiting time, stance) combine in the \"B\"-trial (where the object is hidden in the \"B\" location rather than \"A\") so the child either correctly or incorrectly searches for the toy. They experimentally manipulated the task to see if they could make 10-month-old babies (who typically make the perseverative error of searching at \"A\") perform like 12-month-old babies (who typically search correctly). Changing the stance of the baby (sitting or standing) was one manipulation they found could make the 10-month-old search correctly. Just standing instead of sitting for the \"B\"-trial made the prior experience of searching in location \"A\" less salient to the child, who then searched correctly. The researchers concluded that the length of wait time was one of the crucial elements of the task that is influenced by age.\n\n"}
{"id": "1884389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884389", "title": "Rui Naiwei", "text": "Rui Naiwei\n\nRui Naiwei (; born December 28, 1963) is a Chinese professional Go player, now active in South Korea. She is probably the strongest recorded female Go player, and is the only woman to have won one of the major open Go titles.\n\nShe was born in Shanghai, China, and lives in Seoul, South Korea, with her husband, Jiang Zhujiu, also a 9-dan professional. She and Jiang participate actively in Korean tournaments.\n\nAfter starting to play around 1975 (at the age of 11—the age some other players go pro) she became a pro for the Zhongguo Qiyuan in 1985, being promoted all the way to 7-dan that year. She reached 9-dan in 1988, becoming the first woman ever to achieve that rank. After that, Chinese Feng Yun and Korean Pak Chi-eun became the second, third female go player to reach 9 dan, following Rui Naiwei.\n\nLeaving China in 1989, she moved to Japan. While the Nihon Ki-in did not allow her to play in any Japanese tournaments, she was able to make it to the semi-finals of the international Ing Cup in 1992. She spent several years in the San Francisco Bay Area with her husband, then they moved to South Korea (with the help of Cho Hun-hyeon 9-dan), where she has dominated the women's events and has won two open events, always previously won by men: the Guksu (the 43rd open Guksu title in South Korea, 1999) and the Maxim Cup (2004).\n\nRui's style tends to be extremely aggressive, and often characterized by large scale semeai.\n\nRanks #6-t in total number of titles in Korea.\n\n"}
{"id": "1884392", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884392", "title": "Urban morphology", "text": "Urban morphology\n\nUrban morphology is the study of the form of human settlements and the process of their formation and transformation. The study seeks to understand the spatial structure and character of a metropolitan area, city, town or village by examining the patterns of its component parts and the ownership or control and occupation. Typically, analysis of physical form focuses on street pattern, lot (or, in the UK, plot) pattern and building pattern, sometimes referred to collectively as urban grain. Analysis of specific settlements is usually undertaken using cartographic sources and the process of development is deduced from comparison of historic maps.\n\nSpecial attention is given to how the physical form of a city changes over time and to how different cities compare to each other. Another significant part of this subfield deals with the study of the social forms which are expressed in the physical layout of a city, and, conversely, how physical form produces or reproduces various social forms.\n\nThe essence of the idea of morphology was initially expressed in the writings of the great poet and philosopher Goethe (1790). However, the term as such was first used in bioscience. Recently it is being increasingly used in geography, geology, philology and other subject areas. In geography, urban morphology as a particular field of study owes its origins to Lewis Mumford, James Vance and Sam Bass Warner. Peter Hall and Michael Batty of the UK and Serge Salat, France, are also central figures.\n\nUrban morphology is considered as the study of urban tissue, or fabric, as a means of discerning the environmental level normally associated with urban design. Tissue comprises coherent neighborhood morphology (open spaces, building) and functions (human activity). Neighborhoods exhibit recognizable patterns in the ordering of buildings, spaces and functions (themes), variations within which nevertheless conform to an organizing set of principles. This approach challenges the common perception of unplanned environments as chaotic or vaguely organic through understanding the structures and processes embedded in urbanisation. Complexity science has provided further explanations showing how urban structures emerge from the uncoordinated action of multiple individuals in highly regular ways. Amongst other things this is associated with permanent energy and material flows to maintain these structures.\n\nUrban morphology approaches human settlements as generally unconscious products that emerge over long periods, through the accrual of successive generations of building activity. This leaves traces that serve to structure subsequent building activity and provide opportunities and constraints for city-building processes, such as land subdivision, infrastructure development, or building construction. Articulating and analysing the logic of these traces is the central question of urban morphology.\n\nUrban morphology is not generally object-centred, in that it emphasises the relationships between components of the city. To make a parallel with linguistics, the focus is placed on an active vocabulary and its syntax. There is thus a tendency to use morphological techniques to examine the ordinary, non-monumental areas of the city and to stress the process and its structures over any given state or object, therefore going beyond architecture and looking at the entire built landscape and its internal logic.\n\nRoger Trancik discusses three major theories of urban spatial design and urban mythology which can guide analysis:\n\n\nFigure and Ground theory is founded on the study of the relationship of land coverage of buildings as solid mass (figure) to open voids (ground) Each urban environment has an existing pattern of solid and voids, and figure and ground approach to spatial design is an attempt to manipulate these relationships by adding to, subtracting from, or changing the physical geometry of the pattern. The objective of these manipulations is to clarify the structure of urban space in a city or district by establishing a hierarchy of spaces of different sizes that are individually enclosed but ordered directionally in relation to each other.\nLinkage theory focuses on lines formed by streets, pedestrian ways, linear open spaces or other linking elements that physically connect the parts of the city. Place theory operates upon structured systems of human needs and usage.\n\nIn a broad sense there are three schools of urban morphology: Italian, British, and French.\nThe Italian school centres around the work of Saverio Muratori and dates from the 1940s. Muratori attempted to develop an 'operational history' for the cities he studied (in particular Venice and Rome), which then provided the basis for the integration of new architectural works in the syntax of the urban tissue. Stemming from this view are contributions such as Gianfranco Caniggia's, which conceptualise the city as an organic result of a dynamic procedural typology, which see political-economic forces as shaping a built landscape already conditioned by a particular logic, set of elements, and characteristic processes.\n\nThe British school centres around the work of M.R.G. Conzen, who developed a technique called 'town-plan analysis.' The key aspects for analysis according to Conzen are:\n\nThe town plan in turn contains three complexes of plan element:\n\nFor Conzen, understanding the layering of these aspects and elements through history is the key to comprehending urban form. Followers of Conzen such as J.W.R. Whitehand have examined the ways in which such knowledge can be put to use in the management of historic and contemporary townscapes.\n\nThe French school, based principally at the Versailles School of Architecture, has generated extensive methodological knowledge for the analysis of urbanisation processes and related architectural models. Much emphasis is placed upon the importance of built space for sustaining social practices; the relationship between the built landscape and the social world is dialectical, with both shaping the other.\n\nAs an urban-industrial city, Chicago's socio-economic problems were obvious and crying out to be studied in depth. Therefore, several urban sociologists and geographers, such as WI Thomas (concerned with migration), Robert E Park and Ernest Burgess, attempted to analyse the morphology of Chicago in order to solve these problems.\n\nBurgess employed an ecological approach in placing emphasis on the relationship between organisms and their environment. He used similar biological factors used in explaining plant distribution and established a concentric-zonal theory which included a Central Business District (CBD), an area of transition (invaded by business and migrants), and area of upper class apartments and several commuter zones and suburbs on the edge of the city.\n\nThe scientist Maitri Singhai and the mathematician Nikos Salingaros have created a new school of urban morphology based on morphogenesis and emergence. In The Nature of Order Alexander proposes that urban development is a computational process similar to that of cell growth in an organism, and that the unfolding of these processes produces the urban landscape and its typologies. Some urbanists have sought to transform this theory into a practical emergent urbanism.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1884394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884394", "title": "Garibaldi Provincial Park", "text": "Garibaldi Provincial Park\n\nGaribaldi Provincial Park, also called Garibaldi Park, is a wilderness park located on the coastal mainland of British Columbia, Canada, about 70 kilometres (43.5 mi) north of Vancouver. It was established in 1920 and named a class A Provincial Park of British Columbia in 1927. The park's natural beauty and rugged landscape, combined with its proximity to urban centres, have made it a popular destination for outdoor recreation.\n\nGaribaldi Park spans an area of over 1,950 square kilometres (753 sq mi), and can be accessed just east of the Sea to Sky Highway between Squamish and Whistler. The Park's southern border connects with Golden Ears Provincial Park and Pinecone Burke Provincial Park, while its northern border stretches past Whistler and ends just south of the village of Pemberton. \n\nPrior to the arrival of Europeans in the area, Mount Garibaldi was referred to by the Squamish people as \"Nch'kay,\" meaning \"Dirty Place\" or \"Grimy One\" in reference to the muddy water of the Cheekye River. The mountain was an important cultural landmark for the Squamish, and the area around it was reportedly used for the collection of obsidian. Squamish mythology names Nch'kay as the peak to which their people tied canoes to avoid being swept away by the Great Flood.\n\nAnother culturally significant peak within the park is The Black Tusk, which was known to the Squamish people as \"t'ak't'ak mu'yin tl'a in7in'a'xe7en\". In their language this means \"Landing Place of the Thunderbird\", as the peak was said to have been crushed into its present shape by the talons of the \"in7in'a'xe7en\", or Thunderbird. To the Lil'wat people, the same peak was known as \"Q'elqámtensa ti Skenknápa\", or \"Place Where the Thunder Rests\".\n\nGaribaldi Provincial Park received its name from Mount Garibaldi, which was itself named after Giuseppe Garibaldi by Captain George Henry Richards during a survey of Howe Sound in 1860.\n\nIn 1907, the first ascent of Mount Garibaldi was completed by Vancouver mountaineers A. Dalton, W. Dalton, A. King, T. Pattison, J. J. Trorey, and G. Warren. The views from the peaks inspired the establishment of summer climbing camps at Garibaldi Lake, which included among their ranks many members of the newly-formed British Columbia Mountaineering Club. The first of these camps resulted in the naming and first ascent of The Black Tusk, by a party led by William J. Gray in 1912. The interest sparked by the camps eventually led to the park being legislated as a park reserve in 1920, and designated as a Class A Provincial park in 1927.\n\nIn 1967, the southern section of Garibaldi Provincial park was split off as Golden Ears Provincial Park, which juts southward between the basins of Pitt Lake and the Stave River into the Municipality of Maple Ridge.\n\nThe park's landscape consists of many steep rugged mountains, coastal forests, and alpine lakes. Much of this landscape was shaped by quaternary continental and alpine glaciation, as well as volcanic activity such as the eruption of Mount Garibaldi some 13,000 years ago.\nThere are over 150 glaciers in the park, including the Garibaldi Névé and Mamquam icefields. The highest peak in Garibaldi Park is Wedge Mountain, at an elevation of . It also includes volcanic features such as an andesite tuya known as The Table, a cinder cone known as the Opal Cone, and the stratovolcanoes Mount Garibaldi and The Black Tusk, which are part of the Garibaldi Volcanic Belt.\n\nThere are a number of alpine lakes in the park, including Garibaldi Lake, Cheakamus Lake, Mamquam Lake, Elfin Lakes, and many other smaller lakes. The park is also the origin of the Pitt River, a tributary of the Fraser River.\n\nGaribaldi Lake is retained by a lava dam known as The Barrier. Sometime in the fall or winter of 1855–56, part of this dam gave away, which resulted in a 25,000,000 cubic meter landslide that devastated the area below. The instability of the barrier was brought to public attention in the 1970s, eventually leading to the area below The Barrier being declared unsafe for habitation in 1981. The village of Garibaldi was evacuated as a result. \n\nToday, the land immediately below The Barrier is referred to as the Barrier Civil Defence Zone by BC Parks. The area around it is denoted by signage warning hikers not to camp, stop, or linger within the hazard zone.\n\nIn 2007, a study on glacial recession in Garibaldi Park was conducted by the Department of Earth Sciences at Simon Fraser University. This study determined that, by 2005, glacier coverage in the park had decreased to 49% of the early 18th century value. The study attributed this decrease to the trend of global temperature change in the 20th century. \n\nA similar study in 2013 by the same authors reinforced that the park's glaciers, along with others in western Canada, are at the smallest they have been in several thousand years.\n\nGaribaldi's vegetation is altitudinally zoned. The lower slopes of the park, between above sea level, are dominated by dense forests of Douglas-fir, western red cedar and western-hemlock. Forests of mountain hemlock, yellow cedar, alpine fir, and white bark pine are present in the higher elevations, and these eventually give way to parkland featuring the characteristically stunted trees of subalpine climates.\n\nMuch of the park resides in the alpine and subalpine, and the park's alpine meadows are carpeted by many species of alpine plants, including heather, western anemone, lupine, arnica, Indian paintbrush, and avalanche lily. The park's flowers are said to be most prominent in August.\n\nWildlife thrives in Garibaldi Park, including mammals such as grizzly and black bears, mountain goat, deer, marmot, and pika. A number of birds are present in the park, including golden eagle, bald eagle, blue jay, whiskey jack, and ptarmigan.\n\nAs part of the park's 1990 management plan, an assessment was done on the park's mountain goat population in the Spearhead area, which at the time numbered from 50 to 70 individuals. The goal, supported by the provincial conservation framework of BC, was to maintain healthy, viable populations of the animal, thus preventing it from entering \"at risk\" status. Monitoring flights in March 2012 and March 2013 determined this population was \"relatively stable and healthy\", but as this was limited to the Spearhead area, no determination of the status of mountain goats throughout the park was made.\n\nGaribaldi Provincial Park is a popular outdoor recreation destination, featuring many kilometres of hiking trails, numerous campgrounds, and winter camping facilities. In 2016, the park was deemed popular enough that all overnight stays required advance online bookings, making Garibaldi Park the third BC provincial park to have this requirement (the others being Bowron Lake Provincial Park and Berg Lake in Mount Robson Provincial Park).\n\nWhile the most popular activities in the park are hiking and backcountry camping, other activities include fishing, swimming, canoeing/kayaking, rock climbing, mountaineering, mountain biking, and backcountry skiing. All of the access points (and most of the man-made facilities) are located on the west side of the park, while the eastern wilderness of the park is more remote and generally less frequented.\n\nThe park has five main access points, all accessed from and located just east of the Sea to Sky Highway. Each connects to a specific region of the park, though it is possible to access multiple regions from some access points by following the park's trails.\n\n\nGaribaldi Park has both walk-in and wilderness camping, as well as some shelters. All walk-in campgrounds must be reserved before use, while wilderness camping (i.e. camping in areas other than designated tent pads) is only allowed in the Garibaldi Wilderness Camping Area, which is away from the more trafficked areas of the park and carries some wilderness-specific rules and guidelines. A total of 11 walk-in campgrounds exist in the park, albeit one campground – Red Heather Meadows – only opens during the winter season. The walk-in campgrounds have anywhere from 6 sites (at the Singing Creek campground) to 50 sites (at the Garibaldi Lake Campground).\n\nThere are four overnight-use shelters in the park:\n\n\nThe park features over of park-maintained trails, accessible year-round, although winter hiking requires use of snowshoes or skis. Some of the more popular routes include:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1884395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884395", "title": "Emotions (Mariah Carey album)", "text": "Emotions (Mariah Carey album)\n\nEmotions is the second studio album by American singer and songwriter Mariah Carey. It was released on September 17, 1991 by Columbia Records. The album deviated from the formula of Carey's 1990 self-titled debut album, as she had more creative control over the material she produced and recorded. Additionally, \"Emotions\" features influences from a range of genres such as gospel, R&B, soul and 1950s, 1960s and 1970s balladry infusion. On the record, Carey worked with a variety of producers and writers, including Walter Afanasieff, the only hold over from her previous effort. Additionally, Carey wrote and produced the album's material with Robert Clivillés and David Cole from C+C Music Factory and Carole King, with whom she wrote one song.\n\nUpon release, \"Emotions\" received generally mixed reviews from contemporary music critics. The album debuted at number four on the \"Billboard\" 200, surprising many critics following the success of Carey's debut, which spent eleven weeks atop the chart. While selling far less than \"Mariah Carey\", \"Emotions\" was eventually certified quadruple-Platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA), denoting shipments of four million copies throughout the country, with estimated sales standing at 3,595,000 copies. \"Emotions\" achieved moderate success outside the United States, peaking within the top ten in Australia, Canada, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway and the United Kingdom. Its success in Japan was strong, shipping one million copies there. The album has sold 8 million copies worldwide. \n\nThree commercial singles were released from the album. The title track, the album's lead single, became Carey's fifth chart topper on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100, making her the only artist in history to have their first five singles reach the chart's summit. Additionally, it became Carey's third chart topper in Canada, and reached the top ten in France, the Netherlands and New Zealand. \"Can't Let Go\" was released as the second single from \"Emotions\" on October 23, 1991. Due to Columbia's removal of the single from stores in an attempt to boost the album's sales, \"Can't Let Go\" failed to become her sixth chart topper in the US, peaking at number two. European and worldwide success was very limited, reaching the top 20 in only Canada and the UK. Similarly, \"Make It Happen\" peaked at number five in the US, and achieved relatively weak international charting, prompting Columbia to halt promotion of the album.\n\nFollowing the success of Carey's self-titled debut album, critics wondered whether or not she would tour in order to promote the album in the major worldwide music markets. However, Carey expressed in several interviews that due to the strenuous nature and the sheer difficulty of her songs, she feared a tour with back-to-back shows would not be possible, aside from the long travel times and constant travel. With the extra time, Carey began writing and producing material for \"Emotions\" around the same time that her debut's third single, \"Someday,\" was released in December 1990. During this time period in music, it was traditional for an artist to release a studio album every two years in their prime, allowing the singles to fully promote the album through airwaves, as well as television appearances. Additionally, after a tour that would usually follow, as the next album would be released and would gain new fans, they would search the artist's catalog, and purchase the previous album in hopes of learning of their older work. Sony, however, chose to market Carey in a different fashion, leaning towards the traditional form in the 1960s, where acts would release an LP every year. They felt that Carey's reputation of being a \"studio worm\" and a songwriter from a young age would be captivating enough to deliver a new album more often than most.\n\nAs writing for the album came under way, Carey had a falling out with Ben Margulies, the man whom Carey had written seven of the eleven songs on Carey's debut with. Together, the duo had written and produced seven songs for Carey's demo tape which she handed to Tommy Mottola. Their parting of ways was due to a contract Carey had signed prior to her signing with Columbia. Carey had agreed to split not only the songwriting royalties from the songs, but half of her earnings as well, something she never thought twice about while writing songs in his father's basement. However, when the time came to write music for \"Emotions\", Sony officials made it clear he would only be paid the fair amount given to co-writers on an album. Following the discussion, Margulies filed a lawsuit against Sony, claiming that under contract, he would be entitled to work with Carey, as well as reap extra benefits. After an almost one year lawsuit, the judge settled that Margulies was to earn ten percent of Carey's direct earnings from her record sales, not including an income from any other ventures. While settled, their relationship remained ruined, damaged by what Carey considered treachery. In an interview with Fred Bronson, Carey said the following regarding the contract: \"I signed blindly. Later, I tried to make it right so we could continue...but he wouldn't accept it.\" After the settlement, Margulies spoke of his feelings on the matter, claiming he would hope to one day write again with Carey, placing most of the blame on the record label and concluding \"Hopefully one day, art will prevail over business.\"\n\n\"Mariah Carey\" had originally been recorded in Margulies' father's basement, with old and minimal equipment. After being signed to Columbia, the songs that would be used for the album were re-mastered and re-recorded in professional studios. However, due to Sony's involvement in the project, they did not allow Carey to produce most of the album, hoping the aid of several famed record producers would be able to ensure Carey's already deemed \"exquisite\" songs would become popular. After the album's success however, Carey was allowed more freedom on \"Emotions\" than on her debut. Since she no longer had a working or personal relationship with Margulies, she chose to work with mostly different musicians than those of her previous effort, with the exception of Walter Afanasieff, the only hold over from \"Mariah Carey\". Even though he had only produced \"Love Takes Time,\" the second single from the album, Carey felt a strong working chemistry with him, soon developing a unique form of songwriting alongside him. Aside from Afanasieff, Carey worked with Robert Clivillés and David Cole from the dance-music influenced production duo, C+C Music Factory. Working with the duo was originally Mottola's suggestion, but after meeting the pair, Carey agreed and wrote four songs together with them.\n\nAdditionally, aside from the three men, Carey worked with Carole King, a female singer-songwriter who had been predominantly popular in the 1970s. However, unlike with C+C Music Factory, King approached Carey, hoping to work with her after hearing her perform live on \"The Arsenio Hall Show\". During a conversation with Carey, King suggested that she cover \"(You Make Me Feel Like) A Natural Woman,\" a song she had written with Gerry Goffin for Aretha Franklin. After giving it some thought, Carey declined the offer, feeling uncomfortable about recording a song she felt one of her musical influences performed so perfectly. Still determined on working with Carey, King flew to New York for one day, to try to create a ballad of some sort. The two ladies sat together by a piano over the course of the day, and by nightfall, had written and arranged a song titled \"If It's Over.\" After working with Carey, King said in an interview \"I love her voice. She's very expressive. She gives a lot of meaning to what she sings.\" After recording \"If It's Over,\" Carey expressed the musical connection she shared with Afanasieff, as well as the creative format in which she wrote and produced her music when with him, or working with C+C Music Factory. When working with Afanasieff, the duo would sit by a piano, and lead each other vocally and musically, until they would reach the right note and arrangement. During an interview in 1992, Afanasieff described how Carey would stand next to him, and begin singing different notes and tunes she was thinking of, while he would follow her with the piano. In doing so, he would help lead her to the right note and vice versa. Carey described their working relationship as \"very unique,\" and felt it to be very similar to the form in which she had worked with Margulies. While similar, Carey's creative process with Cole and Clivillés proved different; they would bring her several different tapes and tunes, of which she would choose from. Afterwards, they would work on building the already created melody, and have Carey add and build onto it, as well as writing the lyrics and key.\n\nUnlike Carey's debut album, which featured a more contemporary pop and R&B background, \"Emotions\" proved to be far different. It borrowed from several genres ranging from gospel, R&B, soul, pop and 1960s and 1970s influences. The album's lead single \"Emotions\" borrowed heavily from 1970s disco, and flaunted Carey's upper range and extensive use of the whistle register. The song's lyrics were described as \"joyful\" by author Chris Nickson, and told of a strong and deep emotion felt by the protagonist when with their lover. One of the album's more gospel infused songs, \"And You Don't Remember,\" featured organ chord changes and held minimal production in order to give the vocals a more \"raw and sixties feel.\" It and the former song were part of a trio of tracks from the album that were meant to pay homage to Motown ballads, with the inclusion of soft church choir vocals, and sole musical arrangement by Carey. Its lyrics reflected the song's raw chorus, telling of girl that is promised the world by her boyfriend, and quickly forget about her and moves to the next one. After the heartbreak, the protagonist asks him \"Don't You Remember\" all those things he had promised her, and the things they had spoken and dreamed about doing together. \"Can't Let Go,\" the album's second single, is a slow ballad, featuring sad and yearning lyrical content. The song's introduction featured minor chord changes, and drew influence from fifties balladry. For the duration of the first half of the song, Carey sings in her lower and huskier registers, eventually leading to the belted crescendo and falsetto and whistle finish. Of the ten tracks on the album, Carey felt her most autobiographical lyrics were featured on \"Make It Happen,\" which told of Carey's poor and difficult teen life prior to being signed by Columbia. It continues telling of the importance of faith and prayer to God. Nickson described its instrumentation as \"restrained\" and \"very Motownish,\" as well as noting its soft gospel infusion. Critically, the most anticipated song on the album was \"If It's Over,\" Carey's collaboration with King. It was influenced by sixties and seventies gospel and other soulful genres. According to Nickson, the song's instrumentation and basis was crucial to Carey's performance throughout the song. Additionally, he described its content and instrumentation:\n\nAs a song full of gospel and soulful influences, it allowed Mariah to really tear loose and show what she could do – which in reality was far more than the vocal gymnastics that seemed to comprise her reputation so far. From a deep rumble to a high wail, she covered five octaves wonderfully, as the power of the tune built. The backing vocals – which once again had those churchy harmonies – filled out the spare melody, as did the stately horns, which entered towards the end. The song was truly a vocal showcase for Mariah.\n\nThe next song on the album's track list, \"You're So Cold,\" was originally intended to be the lead single from \"Emotions\", eventually being switched for the title track. The song's introduction features a piano and a capella vocal, working into its chorus. Chris Nickson wrote \"The song sailed into the chorus, driven by the house-y piano work, the bubbly, snacking rhythm belying the angry lyrics, the upbeat tone of voice.\" As Nickson hinted at, its lyrics featured an angry message, calling out an unfaithful lover and asking how he could be \"So Cold.\" \"So Blessed\" was a song Carey wrote with Afanasieff, infusing fifties style pop balladry into it. Carey's voice in the song is very restrained, as she stays within her lower registers throughout the duration of the track. \"To Be Around You\" was described by Nickson as \"far more staccato.\" Its production and melody was intended to pay tribute to \"Got to Be Real\" by Cheryl Lynn, as well as featuring spoken voices towards the end of the song. Nickson described \"Till the End of Time\" as a \"gentle, almost lullaby melody.\" It was a love ballad, preparing the listener for the song's final track, \"The Wind.\" The latter song featured the album's strongest jazz influence, and sampled a piano melody from Russell Freeman during the 1950s. After Afanasieff presented Carey with the melody he had discovered, it inspired her to write the melody and lyrics, which told of a friend that perished in a drunk-driving accident. Musically, the album fulfilled its greatest challenge, according to critics. It had helped master Carey's usage and infusion of several genres which she had not tapped into during the recording of her debut.\n\nAs with \"Mariah Carey\" the previous year, Carey did not embark on a tour to promote the album, due to the long travel times and strenuous schedules on her voice. However, while not touring the world, Carey promoted \"Emotions\" through an array of television and award show appearances, stateside and across Europe. Carey performed \"Emotions\" live for the first time at the 1991 MTV Video Music Awards, backed by several male and female back up vocalists. Following the award show appearance, she sang \"Emotions\" on \"The Arsenio Hall Show\", airing on September 23, 1991. Additionally, Carey performed the song at the 1992 Soul Train Music Awards, and on British music program and talk show \"Top of the Pops\" and \"Des O'Connor\". Additional European stops included \"Sondagstoppet\" and \"Kulan\" in Sweden during mid-September 1991. All of the above-mentioned performances included \"Can't Let Go\" as a secondary performance in the night. \"Can't Let Go\" was sung on additional programs such as \"Saturday Night Live\", a pre-filmed studio clip on \"The Today Show\". While the album's final single \"Make It Happen\" was released only months after \"Emotions\" release, the song was not performed during the album's original chart run, however making its way onto the set-list of several of Carey following tours. On February 26, 1992, Carey performed \"If It's Over\" at the 34th annual Grammy Award, with a full orchestra and several back up singers.\n\nThree commercial singles were released from \"Emotions\". The album's lead single of the same name became Carey's fifth chart topper in the United States, making her the only act in history to have their first five singles reach the charts summit in the country. Additionally, \"Emotions\" topped the singles chart in Canada, reached the top five in New Zealand, and peaked within the top twenty in Australia, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom. The song garnered positive critical response, with Bill Lamb from About.com rating it \"among her best.\" Steve Morse from \"The Boston Globe\" called Carey's high registers in the song a \"feeling of pure joy,\" whereas Jan DeKnock from the \"Chicago Tribune\" described Carey's voice as \"breathtaking.\" The song's music video features different scenes of Carey singing and enjoying herself throughout a car ride by the countryside, as well as a small celebration with several dancers.\n\nThe album's second release, \"Can't Let Go,\" reached the number two position on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100, failing to top the chart due to Columbia's retraction of the single in order to boost sales of the album. Aside from Canada, where it attained a peak of number three, \"Can't Let Go\" performed weakly across continental Europe, reaching the top twenty in only the UK. The song's corresponding video was filmed in black and white, and featured Carey's hair in a straightened style for the first time in her career. The video predominantly features close-up scenes of Carey by a small outdoor fountain, as well as blooming white roses. \"Make It Happen\" was released as the third and final single from \"Emotions\" on April 4, 1992. It peaked at number five in the United States, and as \"Can't Let Go,\" charted weakly throughout Europe, coming in at number seven in Canada, seventeen in the UK, and thirty-five and forty-seven in Australia and the Netherlands, respectively. The song was praised by critics; Morse called it \"a clear slice of spiritual autobiography,\" and called the last chorus \"glorious.\" Similarly, DeKnock called the song \"upbeat and inspirational.\" The video filmed for \"Make It Happen\" featured Carey performing in front of an audience in a large cathedral-like church, alongside back-up singers and child dancers. These three singles have been involved in plagiarism controversies and each disputes has been settled out of court.\n\nIn a contemporary review, \"Rolling Stone\" critic Rob Tannenbaum found \"Emotions\" dependent on \"commercial dance-pop\" and Carey's indulgent vocal exercises, making it difficult for listeners to connect with the lyrics. \"Carey has a remarkable vocal gift, but to date, unfortunately, her singing has been far more impressive than expressive,\" Tannenbaum wrote. Dennis Hunt from the \"Los Angeles Times\" said Carey's \"spectacular and impressive\" voice was comparable to that of Whitney Houston, but criticized the songwriting and production for \"playing high on the angst scale.\" In \"The New York Times\", Stephen Holden believed the record showcased Carey's vocal strengths more effectively than her debut, but showed no improvement in writing lyrics, which Holden said \"describe the rapturous highs and desperate lows of romance in blunt, strung-together pop clichés, with minimal rhyming.\" Arion Berger from \"Entertainment Weekly\" found the record \"colder and more calculated\" than Carey's debut, describing \"Emotions\" as \"the hybrid progeny of a venerable tradition — the tradition of the R&B diva — and crass commercial instincts. It's gospel without soul, love songs without passion, pop without buoyancy.\" \"Orlando Sentinel\" editor Parry Gettelman was also critical of Carey's vocal acrobatics, writing that the singer had become \"so enamored of the ultra-high-frequency part of her range that I'm starting to suspect she may be an intergalactic spy trying to re- establish communications with the far-off Planet of Dogs.\" Steve Morse from \"The Boston Globe\" was more enthusiastic in his review, deeming \"Emotions\" \"a quantum leap in maturity and confidence\" from her first album. He called the lyrics \"remarkable,\" the ballads \"unspeakably beautiful,\" and Carey's vocal and songwriting ability \"unlimited.\"\n\nIn a retrospective review, \"Q\" hailed \"Emotions\" as \"a technically perfect example of mainstream R&B,\" boasting Carey's shapely vocals and \"the customary elegance of a multi-million dollar production.\" AllMusic editor Ashley S. Battel called the record a \"musical journey\" and \"strong follow-up\" to Carey's first album that successfully replicated its predecessor's formula of \"dance/R&B/ballads.\" Battel named \"Emotions\" and \"Make It Happen\" as the album's highlights. Robert Christgau remained unimpressed, however, and rated \"Emotions\" a \"dud,\" indicating \"a bad record whose details rarely merit further thought.\"\n\nThroughout 1992, Carey, the album and its accompanying singles received recognition by the music industry in the form of several awards. At the 19th annual American Music Awards, Carey took home the award for Favorite Soul/R&B Female Artist. At the 3rd annual Billboard Music Awards, Carey took home two trophies for the album and \"Emotions,\" Top Female Album Artist and Top Female Single. Additionally, Carey was nominated for two Grammy Award at the 34th annual ceremony, for Producer of the Year and Best Female Pop Vocal Performance, losing in both categories. All three of the album's singles were awarded BMI Pop Awards in 1993.\n\n\"Emotions\" debuted at the number four position on the \"Billboard\" 200, with first-week sales of 129,000 copies, surprising critics following the success of \"Mariah Carey\" (1990). In total, the album spent twenty-seven weeks in the top twenty and a total of fifty-five on the albums chart, becoming Carey's lowest-peaking album until \"Glitter\" (2001). \"Emotions\" was certified quadruple-Platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA), denoting shipments of four million copies within the United States. According to Nielsen SoundScan, the album's stateside sales are estimated at 3,595,000. On the Canadian \"RPM\" Albums Chart, \"Emotions\" debuted at number fourteen, on the issue dated October 5, 1991. Four weeks later, on the issue date November 2, 1991, the album reached its peak position of number six, staying there for one week. At the end of the year, \"Emotions\" finished number 35 on the Year-End Albums Chart of 1991. To date, the album has been certified quadruple-platinum by the Canadian Recording Industry Association (CRIA), denoting shipments of 400,000 units. In Japan, \"Emotions\" debuted at number three on the official Oricon chart, and according to Sony Music, has shipped 1,000,000 copies throughout the country. In Australia, the album debuted at number ninety-six on the ARIA Albums Chart during the week ending October 6, 1991, attaining its peak position of number eight four weeks later. The album spent thirty weeks in the top 100, being certified Platinum by the Australian Recording Industry Association (ARIA).\n\nIn France, \"Emotions\" received a gold certifications from the Syndicat National de l'Édition Phonographique (SNEP), denoting shipments of 100,000 units. The album made its debut on the Dutch Top 40 at number seventy-nine. The following week, it moved up to number fifty-nine, which became its peak charting position. In total, \"Emotions\" spent six weeks within the Dutch charts, being certified Platinum by the Nederlandse Vereniging van Producenten en Importeurs van beeld- en geluidsdragers (NVPI), denoting shipments of 100,000 units. During the week of October 17, 1991, \"Emotions\" debuted at its peak position of number six, spending a total of sixteen weeks on the New Zealand Albums Chart. The Recording Industry Association of New Zealand (RIANZ) certified the album Platinum, denoting shipments of 15,000 units within the country. In Sweden, \"Emotions\" debuted at number twenty-six on the Swedish Albums Chart, peaking at number thirteen and spending a total of five weeks fluctuating in the chart. Following its exit from the chart, the album was certified Platinum by the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry (IFPI), denoting shipments of 100,000 units. On October 13, 1991, \"Emotions\" debuted at number sixteen on the Swiss Albums Chart, attaining its peak position of fifteen the succeeding week. Following a run of nine weeks in the albums chart, the album was certified gold by the IFPI, denoting shipments of 50,000 units throughout the country. On the UK Albums Chart, dated October 26, 1991, the album debuted at number ten. In its seventeenth week, \"Emotions\" attained its peak position of number four, placing higher than Carey's debut reach of six. After charting in the United Kingdom for forty weeks, the album was certified Platinum by the British Phonographic Industry (BPI), denoting shipments of 300,000 units. \"Emotions\" has sold 8 million copies worldwide, short of the 15 million sold by her debut in 1990.\n\nSample credits\n\nCredits for \"Emotions\" adapted from AllMusic.\n\nWorks cited \n"}
{"id": "1884396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884396", "title": "George Henry Sanderson", "text": "George Henry Sanderson\n\nGeorge Henry Sanderson (1824 – February 1, 1893) was a politician of the United States Republican Party. Sanderson was born in Boston, Massachusetts, and traveled to San Francisco during the 1849 Gold Rush in California. He served as the 22nd Mayor of San Francisco from January 5, 1891 to January 3, 1893.\n\nThis page has been updated to correct previous inaccuracies. The source for the following accounts is a book published by Jean Sanderson, the great grand-daughter of George Henry Sanderson.\n\nAt the age of 19 George Henry Sanderson was working in a dry goods business in Boston according to his own account. He married Sarah Dyer Rowe in 1844 and when he departed Boston in 1849, their son, George Rowe Sanderson was 2 years old.\n\nAt age 26, he sailed to San Francisco around Cape Horn, arriving in March of 1850, and left in August of that year for the gold mines. He settled in Stockton, California, the gateway to the southern mines., establishing a general merchandise store. He had left his wife, Sarah Dyer Rowe, and son in Boston when he came to California, and they joined him in Stockton in 1852. Subsequently the couple had 3 more sons: Henry Ellis Sanderson (\"Harry\"), and his twin, William Webster Sanderson (\"Will\").\n\nFor 2 years, George Henry Sanderson served as the Chief of the Stockton Fire Department (Protection Hook and Ladder Co. #1, established November 15, 1851). He also served as the Controller/Auditor of Stockton in 1853 and Alderman in 1854. He also served as Secretary of the Executive Committee of the 1857 State Fair and was appointed Secretary of the State Agricultural Society in 1863. He also belonged to the Independent Order of Odd Fellows (IOOF) in Stockton. The charter number is unknown.\n\nIN 1865, he moved to San Francisco, joining the firm of Weaver, Wooster & Co. He later founded the firm of Root and Sanderson in 1875. He was president of the Merchants Club, a member of the California Academy of Sciences, the Olympic Club, Art Association, and Mercantile Library Association. He was a trustee of the Chamber of Commerce and Director/President of the Board of Trade of San Francisco, as served as Mayor of that City in 1891-92. He died February 1, 1893 shortly after completing his second term in office.\n\nThe above account is taken from the book For an account of George Henry Sanderson's trip from Boston around the Horn for California, please see the publication \n\nThe following account is taken from . After 6 months at sea, George Henry Sanderson entered the following diary entry on Thursday, March 14, 1850 was intended for his wife to read:\n\n\"I went ashore yesterday afternoon and remained all night; paid 50 cents for a plate of beefsteak, piece of bread and a cup of tea. A dollar for my lodging, a 75 cents for breakfast this morning.\n\n\"There are a few decent looking buildings, but most are tents, and houses covered with buffalo hides. There are some of tin, zinc and of iron; in fact any material is utilized, and all sorts of shapes are seen.\n\n\"There are 50,000 people here. Three weeks ago, they say, there were three times that number. Every nationality and color is represented: Indians, Kanakas, Mexicans, Chileans, Chinese, and representatives of all the European nations are to be seen. Everybody drinks and gambles. I have seen thousands lost in half an hour. Mere boys who have come down from the mines can be seen betting and drinking. A great many of the bars and gambling tables are lept by women. I saw a man lose a piece of gold that he said weighed four pounts. Thousands of dollars are lying on the tables. The saloons are, many of them, magnificent in their fittings; walls covered with paintings, of which the larger part are nude women. I have seen paintings 10 feet long worth hundreds of dollars, and elegant mirrors in proportion. Are of the saloons are nightly crowded, and bets running up into the thousands are of daily occurence. Hard working miners come down here and in a few days go back to the mines cleaned out; everyone that I saw seeming to have a pocket full of money, and had an air of prosperity. If you wish to buy anything, you have to pay a big price. If you want to sell, you can hardly get an offer. Everything is an extreme.\n\n\"There are some things here that are very high on account of their scarcity. Board in a common boarding-house is from $14.00 to $16.00 per week. Those who live in tents can live for $6.00\n\n\"The rainy season is not quite over, and showers are frequent.\n\n\"I hardly know what to make of California from my brief glance; everything is so strange! You hear all languages spoken. I have met more than a hundred Bostonians: Hazon, Hasoltine, Nod Prescott, Frank Lloyd, Bill Morse, Fitz Price, Mr. Blaney, and Ned Riddle, among the number.\n\n\"I have talked with a good many miners; they all agree in saying that more gold will be taken out this season than ever. Over 100,000, they say, have gone up to the mines in the past three weeks. Six or eight vessels arrive here daily, all crowded with passengers. Our ship and the ship Argonaut, which sailed from Boston three hours before us, arrived the same day. She arrived two hours ahead of us. We made the best passages that have been made during the past four months. The schooner Harriet Laurence came in 24 hours behind us, being 140 days on the way.\n\n\"Common laborers receive all the way from five to ten dollars a day. Mechanics, from $10 to $15 when there is work. Just now business is dull, and men do not average over four days in the week, and many not so many. Money is scarce with traders, and from 10% to 15% pder month is paid on loans. Beef is selling at 37 and a half cents per pound; pork, the same; fresh fish, the same, salaratus $1.25, sweet potatoes 12 and a half cente, tripe 50 cents; coffee 22 cents, chickens $3 each; sausage 50 cents per pound; champagne, $3 per dozen; New Orleans sugar, 50 cents per pound, pies 50 cents each, all kinds of liquors, 25 cents per glass. Firearms may be had for anything that you may offer, as there is no sale for them. Boots range from $10 to $15 per pair. Thirty days ago they were selling at from $40-$90 per pair, and rubber boots bought at the mines last fall, $125 per pair. Gold washers, brought from the states, are lying about the streets, lots of machinery in the same condition. Eating-houses all make money. There are lots of deer, geese, ducks and turtle, all about the Bay. The water abounds with fish.\n\n\"Young Judkins and Dr. Abbe's son are in business together here. Some have made a good deal of money in business and then lost it fatsre than they made it. There have been many failures here within a month. Every kind of business seems precarious. Situations are hard to obtain and a great many are out of employment. Sailors, as soon as they arrive, desert and sue the captain for their wages. Our boys, who shopped for Calcutta, all intend to desert and will force the captain to pay them. If you want to hire a boat to go ashore, the boatman will charge $1.00. If they bring you back, they charge another dollar. After dark the price is $3. Sailors' wages here are from $70-$90 per month, and only then for short voyages. Butter is selling for $1.25 per pound; milk $4 per gallon; and cattle $50 per head; mules, $100; hay, from $300 to $500 per ton. One sees mules around upon the back streets, eating up clothes that have been discarded. Men who have not shaved for many months, are met on every hand, but their old greasy bags are stuffed with gold. All kinds of light fancy carriages are rotting in the streets. The streets are nearly knee deep in mud; the walking is consequently horrible. At night everyone carries a lantern. Last night I fell plump into a pie and cake stand, knocking the stuff in every directions, pitching the vendor's lantern into the middle of the street. I \"cut stick\" and got out of the way. Such Spanish oaths I had never before heard. He could not see where I want to, so I quietly watched him from a place of security, and could not help laughing at his discomfiture.\n\n\"George Thompson, a Boston gambler, went home on the last steamer with $40,000, won here in three months. The Indians are great gamblers. One sees them at the tables losing lots of money. All of the foreigners are afraid of the Yankees; they can do anything to them and they will not retaliate. South American women, they say, are sold to pay their passage money here. Tomorrow all the lotteries will have drawings. On Sunday there will be cock fights and shooting matches all over town. Two theaters are in full blast. The town is full of common women. It would please you to see the Californians ride. I never saw such graceful riders. Their wide sombreros, fancy ponchos, immense Spanish saddles, long spurs and their lassos give them a striking and picturesque appearance. They dress elegantly, but gamble, fight cocks and smoke cigars. All of our sailors and mates have run away. Men are giving up business and rushing to the mines.\n\n\"The laws are very severe here. For the slightest offense -- the chain gang, for a long term with a job at leveling and cleaning the streets. The gang wear a chain with a ball at one end, locked with a padlock to a band around the ankle. I met Messerve and Dr. Messenger yesterday. They are in good health now, but have had a hard time. I met Fred Kotell's brother also. You remember Kotell, he is with Ford, the jeweler, on Court Street. Water is sold in town for 12 and a half cents per bucket; is carried about the streets in kegs upon the backs of mules. Wood is sold at $2.00 a mule load, or $40 per cord. Bread, 25 Cents a loaf; ginger-bread, 75 cents a sheet; washing, per dozen, $6.00.\n\n\"The rush for the mines increases daily, and many are giving up really good business prospects, to engage in mining. On Sunday there will be an exhibition of \"Model Artists\", a masked ball, a military ball, bull fights and fandangos. House rents are coming down, and everything promises to be in a better state in the course of a few weeks.\n\n\"California is a great country, in which it appears that everyone may do as he chooses, as long as he does not rob or commit murder.\"\n"}
{"id": "1884397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884397", "title": "Garibaldi, British Columbia", "text": "Garibaldi, British Columbia\n\nGaribaldi, originally named Daisy Lake and also known as Garibaldi Lodge and Garibaldi Townsite, is an abandoned locality in British Columbia, Canada, on the Cheakamus River around its confluence with Rubble Creek and just south of Daisy Lake.\n\nThe townsite had been in existence since shortly after the opening of the Pacific Great Eastern Railway, with its post office opening in 1916, and it had been the site of Garibaldi Lodge, one of several rail-tourism lodges along the rail line, the most well known in this locality being Rainbow Lodge at Alta Lake. The settlement's name was changed from Daisy Lake to Garibaldi in 1932 by dint of association with the intended main basetown for Garibaldi Provincial Park.\n\nAlthough some buildings remain, including public works facilities, the community is officially depopulated due to the geohazard posed by The Barrier, a lava dam holding back Garibaldi Lake that has let go at various points in the past; Rubble Creek gets its name from the large boulder field created by successive degenerations of the Barrier.\n\nPlans for a ski development at this location were ended when evacuation was ordered, property owners and residents of the townsite were ordered by the provincial government to evacuate Garibaldi amid much public controversy as to whether it was really necessary or not. To compensate property owners, lots were offered in the new Pinecrest and Black Tusk Estates subdivisions a bit further north, and out of the way of the debris path from The Barrier. The name Garibaldi Lifts Company, the founding company of what is now Whistler Blackcomb, was chosen in anticipation that Garibaldi would be the major resort in this area.\n\nA new ski resort complex received approval from the provincial government in January 2016, with an all-season facility that will require twenty years to build getting underway. It will be fifteen kilometres north of Squamish on Brohm Ridge, which is just a mile west of Mount Garibaldi and four miles south of Garibaldi Lake. It will include ski lifts and runs, multi-purpose hiking, and biking trails. It will include a car-free village with housing, restaurants and shops linked to Squamish by transit. Aquilini Investment Group vice president Jim Chu said the benefits of the project will include four thousand jobs to operate the resort, two thousand to build it, millions of dollars in tourism-related activity and $49 million in tax revenue.\n\n"}
{"id": "1884416", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884416", "title": "Viewshed", "text": "Viewshed\n\nA viewshed is the geographical area that is visible from a location. It includes all surrounding points that are in line-of-sight with that location and excludes points that are beyond the horizon or obstructed by terrain and other features (e.g., buildings, trees). Conversely, it can also refer to area from which an object can be seen. A viewshed is not necessarily \"visible\" to humans; the same concept is used in radio communications to indicate where a specific combination of transmitter, antenna, and terrain allow reception of signal.\n\nViewsheds are commonly used in terrain analysis, which is of interest to urban planning, archaeology, and military science. In urban planning, for example, viewsheds tend to be calculated for areas of particular scenic or historic value that are deemed worthy of preservation against development or other change. Viewsheds are often calculated for public areas — for example, from public roadways, public parks, or high-rise buildings. The preservation of viewsheds is frequently a goal in the designation of open space areas, green belts, and community separators.\n\nA viewshed can be represented by raster data indicating the visibility of a viewpoint for or from an area of interest. In a binary representation, a cell (shown graphically as a pixel) with a value of 1 (or \"true\") indicates that the viewpoint is visible from that cell, while a value of 0 (false) indicates that the viewpoint is not visible. In certain disciplines, such as radio communications, \"visibility\" may be probabilistic and therefore the viewshed may be represented with non-integer values. Viewsheds for multiple points, lines, or areas may have counts or fractional values for queries involving \"how much\" or \"how many\" (e.g., how much of a highway is visible?).\n\nA terrain can be represented using a regular grid of points called Digital Elevation Model (DEM). Where each point of the DEM is represented by its coordinates X, Y and its height Z.\n\nViewshed calculation on a large DEM is costly from a computational point of view. This cost is much higher when calculating the viewshed for all the points of the DEM, also called total-viewshed. A faster algorithm for computing the total-viewshed of large DEMs was proposed on.\n\nClifford Tandy is credited with coining the term \"viewshed\" in 1967 by analogy to \"watershed\". The lexicographer Grant Barrett cites a use of the term from 1970 in the \"Oakland Tribune\".\n\nViewsheds are a specific type of visibility graph.\n\nIsovists are a closely related concept that is more common in the study of architecture. Viewsheds and isovists are sometimes said to be equivalent, however others have found differences between them. It has been argued that isovists are more focused on representing space whereas viewsheds are about the visibility of features. Also, the problems they are used in have different scales. Planners use viewsheds where terrain heights come into play whereas architects do not typically take that into account with isovists.\n\nThe area from which a structure can be seen may be called the \"Zone of Visual Influence.\" This can be referred to as the viewshed as well, though.\n\nTotal-viewshed map refers to the map, where each point represents the number of Km² visible at that point in the DEM.\n\nThe 3D-viewshed of a point (X,Y) of the DEM consists of the visible space from that point.\n\nA \"zone of visual influence\" is the area from which a development or other structure is theoretically visible. It is usually represented as a map using color to indicate visibility.\n\nZones of visual influence are used to identify the parts of a landscape that will be affected by a development. They are of particular use to landscape architects in determining visual intrusion as part of an environmental impact assessment. Zones of visual influence have been used extensively in wind farm development. A map will be created showing the number of wind turbines that are visible from a particular area. A cumulative zone of visual influence is used to define the cumulative effects of many developments.\n\nZones of visual influence are created using GIS tools.\n\n"}
{"id": "1884437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884437", "title": "Collectible Spoons", "text": "Collectible Spoons\n\nCollectible Spoons is a greatest hits collection by the Canadian new wave band Spoons. It includes material from their first four albums on Ready Records (including a couple of tracks from their lesser-known debut album \"Stick Figure Neighbourhood\"), but ignores the last two (much more guitar-driven) albums, \"Bridges Over Borders\" and \"Vertigo Tango\" on Anthem Records. This CD is now out-of-print.\n\n\nThe photo on the front of the album is taken in the CN Tower's Space Deck.\n\n"}
{"id": "1884440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884440", "title": "Comparison of file managers", "text": "Comparison of file managers\n\nThe following tables compare general and technical information for a number of notable file managers.\n\nThis table shows the operating systems that the file managers can run on, without emulation.\n\n\n\n\n\nInformation about what common file manager views are implemented natively (without third-party add-ons).\n\nNote that the \"Column View\" does not refer to the Miller Columns browsing / visualization technique that can be applied to tree structures / folders.\n\nTwin-panel file managers have obligatory connected panels where action in one panel results in reaction in the second. Konqueror supports multiple panels divided horizontally, vertically or both, but these panels do not act as twin panels by default (the user has to mark the panels he wants to act as twin-panels).\n\nInformation on what networking protocols the file managers support. Note that many of these protocols might be supported, in part or in whole, by software layers below the file manager, rather than by the file manager itself; for example, the macOS Finder doesn't implement those protocols, and the Windows Explorer doesn't implement most of them, they just make ordinary file system calls to access remote files, and Konqueror either uses ordinary file system calls or KIO slave calls to access remote files. Some functions, such as browsing for servers or shares, might be implemented in the file manager even if most functions are implemented below the file manager.\n\nInformation on what basic file features the file managers support.\n\nInformation on what file searching features the file managers support. RegExp include the possibilities of nested Boolean searches, thus implicitly all file managers supporting RegExp search support also Boolean searches.\n\nColumn Definitions (D)\n\nEntry Notes (s)\nInformation on which parts of the application can be extended by plugins.\n\n"}
{"id": "1884447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884447", "title": "Korean swordsmanship", "text": "Korean swordsmanship\n\nSince the 1970s, there has been a revival of traditional or reconstructed methods of swordsmanship (劍術 \"geom sul\", or 劍法 \"geom beop\") based on the Korean sword in the Republic of Korea (Korean \"Bon Kuk Geom Beop\" 본국검법 \"National Sword Methods\"), supplementing the practice of Kumdo (the Korean adoption of modern Japanese Kendo). \nThere are historical sources on which such reconstructions are based, dating to the 17th and 18th centuries, notably \nthe \"Muyejebo\" (“Martial Arts Illustrations”) of 1610, its 1759 revision \"Muyeshinbo\", supplemented with 12 additional fighting methods by Prince Sado who originated the term \"Sip Pal Ki\" (“Eighteen Fighting Methods”), and the renewed revision of 1790, \"Muyedobotongji.\n\nKorean sword practice entails the study and use of one or more of five sword architectures: the single-handed sabre (\"To\"); the single-handed sword (\"Geom\"); the two-handed saber (\"Ssangsoodo\"); the Spear Sword polearm (\"Hyup Do\"); and the Glaive polearm (\"Wol Do\").\n\nAny of these weapons can be studied following one of two disciplines. The study of Korean sword as a weapons system is commonly called Geom Beop (\"sword methods\") while the use of sword study as a form of personal development or sport is commonly called Geom Do (검도, 劍道) \"Way of the Sword\"). In either case, additional equipment and practices have been added to further the study and safety of the subject. These include but are not limited to body armor (\"Ho-gu\"), bamboo (\"Juk-To\") and wooden (\"Mok-Geom\") swords and a range of materials for piercing or cutting.\n\nProduction of Korean swords starts in the 4th century with the Hwandudaedo or \"ring-pommel swords\". No direct accounts of swordsmanship during the Three Kingdoms of Korea are extant, \nbut there are 12th-century historiographical works (\"Samkuk Sagi\". \"History of the Three Kingdoms\" by Kim Bu-sik, 1145; \"Samkuk Yusa\" \"Memorabilia of the Three Kingdoms\") which attest that systematic training of martial skills existed in each of the three early Korean states.\n\nArchaeological evidence suggest that straight double-edged and single edged swords remained prominent during the North South States Period. But with the beginning \nGoryeo era (10th century), advances in metallurgy led to the abandonment of the straight sword in favor of the curved blade.\n\nThe earliest written sources on military training in Korea date to the 17th century.\nAn organized approach to Korean sword was documented in the \"Army Account of Military Arts and Science\" (), a Ming dynasty strategy book written in 1629 by Mao Yuanyi. In his work Mao identifies Korean fencing () as a series of sword methods originating from the area of Korea. Mao reports that these methods had been brought to China during a time when Chinese sword work had declined and were ascribed to about the 9th century by Mao, or about that time nearing the end of the Unified Silla Period.\n\nThe traditional straight type was revived as a type of \"dress sword\", carried as a badge of office by scholars and bureaucrats during the Joseon Dynasty (1392-1897).\nWith the rise of Neo-Confucianism in Korea during the 16th century long and pointed items came to be seen as \"aggressive\" by Confucian standards, these swords were commonly short, single-handed items weapons with blunted tips. Often heavily decorated, these items tended to be more symbolic, but could be pressed into service for self-defense. \nAmong the Military, curved, single-handed sabers (\"To\") were the preferred side-arm.\n\nThe Muyejebo (\"Martial Arts Illustrations\") was published in 1610.\nThis is the oldest native Korean martial arts manual. It was commissioned by King Sunjo (1567-1608), and compiled by one of the king’s military officers, Han Kyo.\nIt covered six disciplines, including the \"Ssangsudo\" or \"two-handed sabre\".\n\nThe Joseon military was described by Hendrick Hamel in 1667, who observed that, \"The horsemen always wear a suit of armor and helmet. They carry a sword, a bow and arrows and a kind of flail with sharp points. The soldiers wear suits of armor and helmets, have muskets, swords and short pikes and carry 50 shots...Each city appoints a number of monks from the monasteries in its surroundings to maintain the fortresses and strongholds in the mountains. In times of great need these monks are used as soldiers. They are armed with sword, bow and arrows.\" Korean sword-work had plainly fallen to being only one of a much great number of options for the Korean warrior.\nDuring the reign of King Youngjo (1724–1776) the \"Muyejebo\" was revised and supplemented with 12 additional fighting methods by Crown Prince Sado, as the \"Muyesinbo\" (1759).\nThe sword features more prominently in this compilation, supplementing the older \"Ssangsudo\" section with coverage of the Yedo (short sword), Bonkuk geom (\"national sword\"), \"Ssang geom\" (twin swords) and four variants of Japanese swordsmanship\n\nKing Cheongjo (1776–1800) had the \"Muyesinbo\" revised by Park Je-ga and Lee Duk-moo, supplemented with six equestrian disciplines, and published 1790 as the \"Muyedobotongji \". \nOf special note is the introduction of by the editors, included to address a variety of shortcomings noted in the introduction to the work. These diagrams, found at the end of chapters, structured training into a succession of techniques and have often inspired the execution of the material in each chapter as a single form (\"Hyung\") rather than a series of techniques.\n\nTraditional Korean swordsmanship fell into decline with the modernization of the army, beginning as King Kojong hired Japanese Lt. Horimoto Reizo to train the \"Pyolgigm\", or \"Special Skills Force\" to march and shoot in European fashion in 1881. \nAnd in 1883, Japan accepted 40 Korean candidates for enrollment in various Japanese schools of commerce and technology. Half of this number were also enrolled in the Toyama Military Academy to be trained as officers for duty in the future Korean army. Distracted by events in other parts of the World, Western influences on the development of Korean Military Science lost out to Japanese designs. In this way, developments in Japan regarding sword practice had immediate impact on Korean sword practices. As Japan had adopted German and French sabre material for their Police forces, these practices were implemented with the Korean Police following the Kabo Reforms of 1894. Korean police cadets at the \"Kyongmuchong\" or Police Academy were required to learn \"Kyok Geom\" (Japanese \"Gekki ken\" aka \"kenjutsu\") as one of its training subjects.\n\nJapanese found the use of European single-handed sabers inadequate against Japan's larger Russian adversaries in the Russo-Japanese War (1905-5) and in 1933 re-instituted the two-handed saber as the official Japanese sidearm for officers and non-commissioned officers. Koreans associated with the Japanese such as Korean Police and Military Officers-in-training did likewise. With the occupation of Korea by Japan in 1910, Japanese sword practices increasingly supplanted Korean sword work in the urban areas. This was enhanced by the acceptance of Kendo in the Korean educational system in 1931 as well as a series of high-profile competitions between Korean and Japanese players during the 1930s and 1940s.\n\nIn 1920, the Choson Chaeyukhoe (Choson Athletics Association) was established, and a year later, Kang Nak-won opened Choson Mudogwan, the country's first private school to teach Kumdo exclusively. Japanese Military sword was also reinforced by the efforts of Japanese sword master Nakamura Taisoburo who was stationed in Manchuria at this time. Drawing on the calligrapher's repeated practice of the character \"Ei\" with its eight basic strokes, Nakamura develops \"Ei-Ji Happo\" (literally: \"8 Laws of the Character Ei \") as a drill for practicing the basic cuts and thrusts of his sword material. This would later be formalized into \"Happo-giri\" (literally: \"Eight Directions of Cutting\") and become an integral part of his style, Nakamura-Ryu Batto-jutsu. \nIn the modern Republic of Korea, Kendo, as in the case of other Japanese elements, remained in Korean culture albeit renamed as Kumdo with little or no emphasis on its Japanese connections. Early efforts to resurrect traditional Korean practices such as Ssireum (wrestling), Taek Kyon (Martial Sport) and Geom Beop (sword method) was part of the discourse on post-1945 Korean nationalist historiography and encountered strong opposition by elements in Korean Society that felt such practices recalled anachronistic culture of pre-Occupation Korea.\n\nChanges in the political fortunes in Korea since the 1980s, including the easing of repressive governmental oversight, has allowed for a renewed interest in practices and traditions of Koreas' Martial past, producing a number of groups who seek to showcase these activities, such as the Sib Pal Gi Preservation Society (2001).\n\nThe study of Korean sword is the study and practice of inter-relating the elements: Energy (Ki), Sword ( Geom) and Body (Chae). This study is conducted in a variety of practices including exercises and drills, single person form, two-person form and validation cutting. Seen as a zero-sum circumstance, the excess of any one element can only mean a deficit concerning the other two elements. In each case, an activity is meant to instill in the swordsman a near-reflexive ability to assess a circumstance and execute the appropriate meld of these elements to produce the intended outcome. For this reason practitioners rely heavily on the use of cutting targets of various materials to demonstrate successful outcomes concerning any particular technique.\n\nNoticeably absent in the Korean sword methods are tactics and strategies associated with individualized engagements such as dueling as found in European and Japanese traditions. Though not unfamiliar with affairs of honor, Korean culture is dominated by Buddhist and Neo-Confucian thought, both of which proscribe the use of violence. Therefore, Korean swordwork can be said to have been shaped primarily by Military practice and utilized most often in a melee environment requiring awareness of a variety of vectors and angles apart from directly to the front.\n\nA cursory examination of Bon Kuk Geom Beop reveals that of the 26 sword methods, 5 are thrusting methods and 15 are cutting or slashing methods. In like manner Military sword work introduced to the Korean Military during the Japanese Occupation (Toyama Ryu) is also heavily skewed in favor of cutting over thrusting. Lastly, techniques associated with Korean Geom Beop reveal a ratio of roughly 12 cutting techniques to 4 thrusting techniques.\n\nThe use of the shield was not successfully integrated into the Korean Military despite its mention in a variety of Korean historical manuals. Korean sword, then, integrates a variety of parries which are intended to redirect the opponent's attack and produce an opportunity (K. Teum) for the defender to counter the attack. These parries are most often accomplished with the use of the spine of the sword or the sides of the blade rather than with the blade edge.\n\n\"Native Sword Methods\" (K. \"Bon Kuk Geom Beop\" - 본국검법) is first identified in Korean legends of the Kingdom of Silla, one of the domains comprising \"The Three Kingdoms\" Period (37 BCE – 660 AD). The \"Yuji Sungnam\" relates a story of a seven-year-old boy from the Silla Kingdom who traveled across the Kingdom of Paekshe, demonstrating his \"sword dance\" (\"gummu\") and drawing large crowds. However, when finally summoned to perform his dance before the king, the boy ended his performance by plunging his sword into the king, killing him, and was, in turn, cut down by the king's retainers. In honor of the young boy's sacrifice, the Silla people created a masked sword dance resembling the boy's face.\n\nThe earliest written account of these sword methods is found in the encyclopedic work \"Army Account of Military Arts and Science\" (), written in 1629 by Mao Yuan-I. In his work Mao, identifies Korean fencing () as a series of sword methods originating from the area of Korea. These methods, identified only as \"Native Sword Methods\" (\"Bon Kuk Geom Beop\" - 본국검법) had, according to Mao, been brought to China during a time when Chinese sword work had declined and were ascribed to about the 9th century.\n\nWith the revisions of the \"Muyedobotongji\" (1790) the authors sought to overcome perceived short-comings in earlier materials by including a \"Complete Illustrations addendum to certain chapters, most notably those concerning sword-work. \nMeant originally as a sequential drill of sword techniques intended to catalog the contents of the chapter, these addendums have become stylized exercises for modern Martial Arts practitioners.\nThe \"Muyedobotongji\" generally, and the \"Bon Kuk Geom Beop\" chapter in particular, may be cataloged as military manuals, meaning that they provide only an overview of the information necessary for personnel to perform their duties.\n\nThe \"skills\" set forth in the \"Muyeshinbo\" concern various armed and unarmed disciplines and are not limited to swordsmanship. \nOf the six disciplines of the original \"Muyejebo\", only the sixth deals with the sword:\n1. staff (gonbang), 2. shield (deungpae), 3. multi-pronged spear (nangseon)\n4. long spear (jangchang), 5. three-pronged spear (dangpa) and 6. two-handed sword (ssangsudo).\n\nOf the twelve additional disciplines of the \"Muyeshinbo\", eight concern bladed weapons:\nThe remaining three being Jukjangchang (long bamboo spear), Gichang (spear with flag), pyeongon (flail) and gwonbeop (unarmed fighting).\n\nMuyedobotongji\nidentifies 26 methods for using a sword through the recombination of basic body movements, cuts and thrusts. With the repetition of some methods, the total number of executed methods in this text is 33. \nConsistent with Ming writing form, each method is assigned a poetic name intended to embody the nature of the sword method.\n\nThere are 8 sword positions and 4 stances from which a swordsman might mount an attack or defense including:\nThere are also a variety of zones and avenues of approach of which the swordsman needs to be aware.\n\nThe third method, Jinjun Kyuk Jukse (“Advance Forward to Attack the Thief”), identifies the single most basic sword movement, that of walking forward a given number of steps to execute a single Straight Descending Cut (“Chungmyôn Pegi”). Modern sword practices have compounded this by including all twelve cuts, and three thrusts at this point, so obviating the need for a number of the subsequent methods.\n\nKumdo, the Korean version of sword martial arts, established in 1895.\n\nAfter the end of Japanese rule in Korea in 1945, there was a patriotic tendency to avoid Japanese martial arts in favour of historical, native traditions, and a number of explicitly \"native Korean\" styles have become current in South Korea during the 1970s to 1980s.\n\nShim Gum Do was established in 1971 by Chang Sik Kim in Korea, from 1978 also as the American Buddhist Shim Gum Do Association.\n\nThe Sib Pal Gi Association was founded in 1981 based on a system of martial arts taught by Kim Kwang-Seok since 1969, and supposedly directly derived from the techniques of 1790 (including, but not limited to sword disciplines).\nThe \"Sib Pal Gi Preservation Society\" (십팔기 보존회) was founded in 2001 by students of Kim Kwang-Seok with the purpose of public performance and the dissemination of public awareness of the Korean martial arts.\n\nHaidong Gumdo, established 1983 as the Hai Dong Gumdo Association, in 1996 was incorporated as the World Hai Dong Gumdo Federation (WHDGF).\n\nHankumdo, developed by Myung Jae Nam in 1986 and first publicized in 1997, originated as a method of defending against sword attacks, but diverged to include sword techniques in its curriculum.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1884456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884456", "title": "St. George Defence", "text": "St. George Defence\n\nThe St. George Defence (also known as the Baker's Defence, Birmingham Defence, or Basman Counterattack) is an unorthodox chess opening for Black. The opening begins with the moves:\n\nThe St. George Defence is given \"ECO\" code B00 as a King's Pawn Opening.\nThe first known chess game involving the St. George was a simultaneous game between an English amateur, J. Baker, and the first official World Chess Champion, Wilhelm Steinitz, on 11 December 1868. The game was won by Baker. The advocates of the opening are generally players willing to sacrifice the centre in order to attack from the flank, and to avoid theory. Michael Basman has been known to play the St. George, as did Tony Miles.\n\nIn perhaps its most famous appearance, Miles defeated reigning World Champion Anatoly Karpov in the 1980 European Team Chess Championship in Skara, Sweden. The opening also acquired the name of \"Birmingham Defence\" at this time, after Miles' hometown.\n\nBoris Spassky also played the St. George Defence, albeit by transposition, in the 22nd game of his 1966 world championship match against World Champion Tigran Petrosian. That game began 1.d4 b5 (the Polish Defence) 2.e4 Bb7 3.f3 a6 (transposing to the St. George). This was an inauspicious outing for the defence, however: Petrosian won, giving him the 12 points needed to retain his title.\n\nThe major lines in the opening start with 1.e4 a6 2.d4 b5 and then branch. The main line continues 3.Nf3 Bb7 4.Bd3 e6 5.0-0 Nf6. Another important line is the Three Pawns Attack, sometimes called the St. George Gambit, which continues 3.c4 e6!? 4.cxb5 axb5 5.Bxb5 Bb7. (Black can also play 3...Bb7 and offer the b-pawn for the more valuable White e-pawn.) The St. George is also sometimes used to prevent a White bishop from occupying b5 before continuing as in French Defence.\n\nMuch of the theoretical work on the defence was done by the English IM Michael Basman.\n\nAnatoly Karpov vs. Tony Miles, European Team Chess Championship, Skara 1980: 1.e4 a6 2.d4 b5 3.Nf3 Bb7 4.Bd3 Nf6 5.Qe2 e6 6.a4 c5 7.dxc5 Bxc5 8.Nbd2 b4 9.e5 Nd5 10.Ne4 Be7 11.0-0 Nc6 12.Bd2 Qc7 13.c4 bxc3 14.Nxc3 Nxc3 15.Bxc3 Nb4 16.Bxb4 Bxb4 17.Rac1 Qb6 18.Be4 0-0!? 19.Ng5 (19.Bxh7+!? is a dangerous sacrifice) h6 20.Bh7+ Kh8 21.Bb1 Be7 22.Ne4 Rac8 23.Qd3 Rxc1 24.Rxc1 Qxb2 25.Re1 Qxe5 26.Qxd7 Bb4 27.Re3 Qd5 28.Qxd5 Bxd5 29.Nc3 Rc8 30.Ne2 g5 31.h4 Kg7 32.hxg5 hxg5 33.Bd3 a5 34.Rg3 Kf6 35.Rg4 Bd6 36.Kf1 Be5 37.Ke1 Rh8 38.f4 gxf4 39.Nxf4 Bc6 40.Ne2 Rh1+ 41.Kd2 Rh2 42.g3 Bf3 43.Rg8 Rg2 44.Ke1 Bxe2 45.Bxe2 Rxg3 46.Ra8 Bc7 \n\n\nBibliography\n\n"}
{"id": "1884462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884462", "title": "Mind Control (Canibus album)", "text": "Mind Control (Canibus album)\n\nMind Control, is the sixth studio album by Canibus, released on June 21, 2005, through Gladiator Music and Tommy Boy Records. The album was originally recorded in 2001 before \"C True Hollywood Stories\" and was released to complete a contractual agreement Canibus had with Gladiator Music. Mark Sparks produced the album, which features guest appearances from Kurupt and Pakman.\n\nBefore the album's release, AllHipHop.com reported that the album would contain material on Canibus' experiences in the U.S. Army. However, the album contained tracks that most Canibus fans had already heard. \"33 3's\", \"Canibus Man\", and \"Last Laugh\" were leaked in 2001. \"Atlanta\", \"Gybaotc\", \"Stupid Producers\", and \"Nobody\" were released on his mixtape \"My Name Is Nobody\" (2003), and \"Not 4 Play\" was released as \"Scrolls\" on \"The Horsemen Project\" (2003). The rest of the album contains three unreleased songs: \"Mind Control\", \"In the Rain\", and \"Talk the Talk\". \"Mind Control\" was recorded in 2001 before \"C True Hollywood Stories\" (2001) and contractually came out by chance in 2005, pushing back the release of his 2005 album, \"Hip-Hop for Sale\". The album was released on Gladiator Music, a label that Canibus formed in 2001 with Ricky Lee, the executive producer of his second album, \"2000 B.C.\". \n\nOn October 25, 2005, Canibus released \"Def Con Zero\" on Head Trauma Records as part of the group Cloak-n-Dagga. The same day, the webmaster of the label's website interviewed Canibus, Phoenix Orion, and Dewey Cooper. According to the webmaster, Canibus had an agreement with Ricky Lee and Gladiator Records that if Canibus died during his army period, Gladiator could make a big profit by releasing these rare recordings. Nothing had happened to Canibus in the army, but Gladiator still released the album.\n\nThe initial reaction to \"Mind Control\" was negative. On the bonus DVD that came with \"Def Con Zero\", Canibus spoke on the album:\n"}
{"id": "1884464", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884464", "title": "GBTW", "text": "GBTW\n"}
{"id": "1884470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884470", "title": "Hanover, Ontario", "text": "Hanover, Ontario\n\nHanover is a town in the Canadian province of Ontario with a population of about 7,650 residents. It is located in southwestern Grey County, bordering on Bruce County, west of Durham and east of Walkerton on Grey/Bruce Road 4. Hanover has a city hall, police department and the Hanover and District Hospital.\n\nIn 1849, pioneer Abraham Buck and his family established a farm and tavern on the Saugeen River in the region of modern-day Hanover. Many settlers, most originally German, arrived to the area; a townsite was laid out by 1855. It was earlier called Buck's Crossing and then Adamstown, but was renamed Hanover. Records from 1867, indicate a gristmill, sawmill and carding mill, a foundry and a cabinet factory. Knechtel Furniture Company had opened around that time; the enterprise had been started in a barn by Daniel Knechtel who came from Waterloo County, Ontario. The company expanded over the years, becoming a large employer; it had locations in Southampton, Ontario and in Walkerton, Ontario and remained in operation until 1983. Other furniture companies also opened in the 1800s, including Sklar-Peppler. Hanover became an incorporated village in 1899 and a town in 1904.\n\nThe railway arrived in about 1880, a benefit to factories who now had a way to ship their goods across Canada. By the 1920s, Hanover was known as the Furniture Capital of the country. The town survived the depression and flourished after the Second World War manufacturing furniture, textiles, flour, processed food and kitchen cabinets. Manufacturing declined seriously between 1970 and 2000.\nImportant settlers included: \n\nPrivate dwellings occupied by usual residents (2016): 3,336 (total dwellings: 3,404)\n\nMother tongue:\n\nThe first school was privately operated in the home of the teacher, Mrs. Campbell, on the eastern outskirts of the town (Campbell's Corner). When it became overcrowded, classes were held in the Orange Hall.\n\nA new school was opened in 1875, just north of main street. This structure accommodated both elementary students and those studying the first and second years of secondary. Additions were added to the structure in 1884, 1891,1895, and 1905.\n\nFinally, in 1912, a new six room school was built on what is the current site of Hanover Heights Community School. James A. Magee, who had become principal of the previous school in 1905, remained principal for 46 years.\n\nThe high school was built in 1924, in the south-west corner of the town, on a site known as Bartrap's Field.\n\nCurrently, there are three elementary schools:\n\nThere is one secondary school, John Diefenbaker Senior School, which has about 700 students drawn from Hanover and neighbouring towns and villages.\n\nThere are many factories and farms, which are the two major employers of the residents. The annual Hanover Homecoming also provides a yearly boost to the local economy. Revenue generated from the Hanover Homecoming can represent up to 90% of Hanover's gross municipal revenue, or approximately four dollars Canadian ($4.00/CND).\n\nWest Bros. Furniture is now Hanover's only furniture manufacturer and a major player in the solid wood furniture market supplying bedroom, dining room, occasional & accent furniture throughout North America, and to External Affairs Canada to furnish the Canadian Embassy residences worldwide. Beginning in 1992 the West Brothers, a family of Ontario furniture manufacturers created a new company located in Hanover.\n\nDickies Canada Co., formerly Buckeye Industries, originated in 1920 as Peerless Textiles of Toronto. The Company expanded its manufacturing base in 1956 by purchasing the existing factory in Hanover. Dickies Canada produces clothing for the work wear industry with traditional matched sets of work shirts and work pants. In addition, the production lines now include jeans and casual wear. Dickies Canada Co. also merchandises a complete outerwear line. Brand names include – Dickies, Kodiak and Terra. A factory outlet has been opened in Hanover. The Distribution Centre/Head Office is located in Toronto. Dickies Canada is a wholly owned subsidiary of Williamson Dickie Manufacturing Co. of Fort Worth, Texas. Dickies Canada employs 140 local people. In December 2009, Dickies announced that it was closing their manufacturing subsidiary in Hanover, but continuing sales from the Hanover outlet.\n\nFounded in 1970, Electrical Contacts Ltd. is a contact material manufacturer, servicing the needs of automobile, appliance and distribution industries. They currently export 80% of their shipments to markets in North America and Asia.\n\nHanover-Hearth Cabinets (formerly Hanover Kitchens Inc.) was officially founded on June 18, 1952 on the same site of the previously existing two adjacent factories in Hanover. Beginning with only one door style, the company grew to a modern manufacturing facility, offering well over 2,000 possible combinations of styles, woods, finishes and materials. All products were manufactured in the Hanover factories and were sold in Canada, the United States and Japan. Hanover-Hearth Cabinets closed their doors December 21, 2006.\n\nOntario's twelfth slots-at-racetrack operation at Hanover Raceway, opened on February 19, 2001. Since opening, the facility has averaged more than 860 patrons daily. Slots at Hanover Raceway is located at 265 5th Street. The facility is open from 9 a.m. to 4 am. Sunday through Thursday and 24 hours Friday & Saturday, starting April 1, 2011. There is no smoking on the gaming floor. Slots at Hanover Raceway is operated and managed by Ontario Lottery and Gaming Corporation (OLG). Ontario's slots-at-racetrack program ensures the continued viability of the horse racing industry through improved facilities, increased purses, which lead to more horses of better quality, improved racing and more employment throughout the supporting industries. Approximately 90 permanent employees work at Slots at Hanover Raceway. The Town of Hanover receives 5% of the facility's gross slot machine revenue. The funds are used at the discretion of the Municipality. Revenue from Ontario's slots at racetrack facilities as well as charity casinos and lotteries guarantees $100 million annually for the Province's charities. This money is distributed to charities through the Ontario Trillium Foundation.\n\nHorizon Poultry, a successful poultry industry leader, has been located in Hanover since 1969. They employ approximately 750 people at their four locations, Hanover, St. Marys, Ayr and Kitchener. Hanover is the home of their hatchery and breeder farms. A division of J. M. Schneider Inc. and a division of Maple Leaf Foods, their products are distributed throughout Canada and also exported to many countries under the J. M. Schneider label. Regular capital injections keep this modern facility up to date.\n\nFounded in 1978 to provide the Canadian marketplace with AC and DC electric motors LEESON Canada has since grown to become one of this country's major sources for an array of related power transmission components. LEESON Canada operates its own specialized manufacturing plant in Hanover where they produce unusual multi-speed and high-efficiency motors through 350 HP for customers throughout North America.\n\nNew-Life Mills Limited is a modern automated flour mill. The original mill* in Hanover, constructed over a century ago, had a capacity to stone grind 10 metric tonnes of wheat per day. The present day mill, with its two milling units, grinds over 500 metric tonnes of wheat daily. Some of the wheat stocks are grown locally and the balance comes from western Canada. Flour from the Hanover mill is shipped to bakers, consumers and makers of cake mixes, pasta and other fast and convenience goods. Products are shipped through the provinces of Ontario and Quebec and various countries around the world. Owned by Parrish & Heimbecker.\n\n\nP & H Foods, a division of Parrish & Heimbecker, operates a turkey processing and further processing plant. This facility has been located in Hanover since 1934 and has operated as a turkey processing plant since 1965. P & H Foods employ 280 plus hourly people and a staff of 25 plus salaried management people. The Hanover Plant processes about 40 million pounds annually and daily volumes embrace about 16,000 turkeys. \"Butterball\" turkey products are produced at this facility, as well as raw product being supplied to the further processing industry. P & H Foods exports frozen whole and part turkeys worldwide. P & H Foods has invested $8,000,000 within the last seven years in new buildings and equipment because they have continued faith in the Town of Hanover and surrounding district to be able to supply raw materials and labour. Plans for further improvements and expansion are on-going.\n\nThe world's most experienced satellite operator, Telesat has established itself as a world leader, with over 30 years of experience and a lengthy list of accomplishments that have won international acclaim for Canada. Telesat's satellites have long played a critical role in bridging Canada's vast distances. Telesat ushered in the age of satellite communications with the launch of Anik A1 in 1972 – becoming the first company in the world to place a domestic geostationary communications satellite into commercial service. Since then, Telesat has successfully launched 11 more Anik satellites, as well as Nimiq, a new satellite that brings direct-to-home satellite television to Canadians from coast to coast. Telesat also provides voice and data transmission services that enable telephone companies – such as Bell Canada and NorthwesTel – to extend their services to remote areas of Canada. Telesat operates the largest of its 4,000 earth stations at Allan Park, the nerve centre of its satellite communications network. Located just outside Hanover, this facility employs over 50 staff to provide technical support for its satellites and networks.\n\nHanover is serviced by major retailing chains such as Canadian Tire, Walmart, Food Basics, Independent Grocery, Rona, Inc., Home Hardware Building Center, The Source, Shoppers Drug Mart, LCBO, The Beer Store, Farm Supply, Mark's Work Warehouse, etc. The former Zellers outlet is being converted to a Giant Tiger store.\n\nThe Paramount Theatre, located downtown, provides year-round entertainment with the latest movie releases. The Hanover Drive-In Theatre is located at the southeast edge of Hanover and offers summer entertainment for the entire family. Also the Hanover Drive in Theatre is one of only 23 remaining drive-in theatres in Ontario.\n\nLocated in the renovated Civic Centre complex in the centre of town, the library has something for everyone, from books to computers, and space to meet, read or study. Internet connected computers and WiFi are available for use by the public. The collection includes a large number of books for all ages, videos on DVD and Blu-ray, magazines and newspapers. Online resources include large collections of free downloadable ebooks, e-audiobooks, and magazines. Audiovisual equipment is available for rent. Library services include quick and in-depth reference; a local history collection including back issues of The Hanover Post (now published as The Post) and censuses of Grey and Bruce counties on microfilm; an online obituary lookup service; pre-school programmes; a shut-in material delivery service; French language books; large print and talking books and CNIB materials for loan. The library actively participates in the Southern Ontario Library Service giving patrons access to a large selection of audiovisual materials and books through inter-library loans.\n\nHanover Town Park and Campground is located on the banks of the Saugeen River and offers 40 fully serviced campsites. Very popular with town residents, the Hanover Park offers large picnic areas, fishing, a wide variety of playground equipment for children of all ages, and a covered picnic pavilion with kitchen facilities. Many community special events are held in the park providing entertainment and lots of fun for residents and visitors alike. Several smaller parks, playgrounds and baseball diamonds are located throughout the town.\n\nHanover is home to a Junior C hockey team, the Hanover Barons.\n\nHanover has its own community radio station, CFBW-FM 91.3 FM Bluewater Radio.\n\n\"The Hanover Post\" was the local newspaper, first established in 1880 and operated until 2005 when it was merged with three other regional newspapers to form \"The Post\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1884473", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884473", "title": "Nabedrennik", "text": "Nabedrennik\n\nA nabedrennik (Church Slavonic: набедренникъ, \"on the thigh\") is a vestment worn by some Russian Orthodox priests. It is a square or rectangular cloth worn at the right hip, suspended from a strap attached to the two upper corners of the vestment and drawn over the left shoulder. Unlike all other priestly vestments, the nabedrennik has no associated vesting prayer.\n\nA relatively recent Russian usage, the nabedrennik is unknown in the Greek tradition. It is worn by certain presbyters to whom it has been awarded by a bishop \"for long and dedicated service\" to the church; bishops do not wear it.\n\nThe rectangular shape of the nabedrennik differs from the epigonation, which is lozenge-shaped. Both are believed to derive from the ancient knee guards which shielded the legs of warriors from being bruised by their swords. The Byzantine Emperors used to award swords to their commanders and nobles; in the same way the Church awards priests who defend the faith. If the epigonation (Church Slavonic: палица, \"palitsa\", \"club\") is also awarded to the same priest, he wears both but shifts the nabedrennik to the left side.\n\n"}
{"id": "1884480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884480", "title": "24th New Zealand Parliament", "text": "24th New Zealand Parliament\n\nThe 24th New Zealand Parliament was a term of the New Zealand Parliament. It opened on 23 February 1932, following the 1931 election. It was dissolved on 1 November 1935 in preparation for the 1935 election. The 24th Parliament was extended by one year because the 1935 election was held later than anticipated due to the ongoing depression, similarly the 1919, and the 1943 elections were held two years late, having been postponed during World War I and World War II respectively.\n\nThe Prime Minister during the 24th Parliament was George Forbes, leader of the United Party. Many commentators at the time, however, alleged that Gordon Coates, leader of the larger Reform Party, had the greater influence.\n\nThe 24th Parliament consisted of eighty representatives, each elected from separate geographical electorates.\n\nThe 24th Parliament was led by a coalition of the Reform Party and the United Party; Reform had twenty-eight seats, United had nineteen, and there were four pro-coalition independents. The primary opposition was from the Labour Party, which had twenty-four seats. The small Country Party had one seat, and there were four non-aligned independents. The distribution of seats between three large parties (also a feature of the previous parliament) was relatively unusual, as New Zealand tended towards a two-party system at the time.\n\nThe coalition government had been formed on 22 September 1931 during the term of the previous Parliament. During the difficult times of the Great Depression, Forbes had wanted to form a grand coalition with the Labour Party and the Reform Party. Labour refused, but Reform went into a coalition government with United from September 1931.\n\nThere were a number of changes during the term of the 24th Parliament.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1884492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884492", "title": "Trillium persistens", "text": "Trillium persistens\n\nTrillium persistens, the persistent trillium, is a North American species of flowering plants in the genus \"Trillium\" of family Melanthiaceae (formerly Trilliaceae). The plant is also called the persistent wakerobin.\n\nPersistent trillium is an endangered herbaceous perennial plant that grows to a height of 20–30 cm, with three leaves in a whorl near the top of the stem just below the flower; each leaf is broad lanceolate, 3–9 cm long and 1.5–3.5 cm broad. The white flower has three petals, each petal 2–3.5 cm long and 0.5–1 cm broad.\n\nThis plant has a limited range in parts of the United States in the northeastern Georgia and northwestern South Carolina.\n\n"}
{"id": "1884495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884495", "title": "Prima scriptura", "text": "Prima scriptura\n\nPrima scriptura is the Christian doctrine that canonized scripture is \"first\" or \"above all\" other sources of divine revelation. Implicitly, this view acknowledges that, besides canonical scripture, there are other guides for what a believer should believe and how he should live, such as the created order, traditions, charismatic gifts, mystical insight, angelic visitations, conscience, common sense, the views of experts, the spirit of the times or something else. \"Prima scriptura\" suggests that ways of knowing or understanding God and his will that do not originate from canonized scripture are perhaps helpful in interpreting that scripture, but testable by the canon and correctable by it, if they seem to contradict the scriptures.\n\n\"Prima scriptura\" is sometimes contrasted to \"sola scriptura\", which literally translates \"by the scripture alone\". The former doctrine as understood by many Protestants—particularly Evangelicals—is that the Scriptures are the sole infallible rule of faith and practice, but that the Scriptures' meaning can be mediated through many kinds of secondary authority, such as the ordinary teaching offices of the Church, antiquity, the councils of the Christian Church, reason, and experience.\n\nHowever, sola scriptura rejects any original infallible authority other than the Bible. In this view, all secondary authority is derived from the authority of the Scriptures and is therefore subject to reform when compared to the teaching of the Bible. Church councils, preachers, Bible commentators, private revelation, or even a message allegedly from an angel or an apostle are not an original authority alongside the Bible in the \"sola scriptura\" approach.\n\nThe \"Dogmatic Constitution on Divine Revelation\" is clear on the total equality of Scripture with Sacred Tradition when it says that \"both Sacred Tradition and Sacred Scripture are to be accepted and venerated with the same sense of loyalty and reverence\" because together they \"form one sacred deposit of the word of God, committed to the Church.\" So, in one sense, Scripture has no primacy over Tradition, but an ancient tradition holds that the word of God, though equally authoritative in whichever form it comes, comes primarily in the form of Sacred Scripture, and thus we should seek for Sacred Doctrine primarily in the Scriptures. As Thomas Aquinas said:\n\n...[S]acred doctrine...properly uses the authority of the canonical Scriptures as an incontrovertible proof, and the authority of the doctors of the Church as one that may properly be used, yet merely as probable. For our faith rests upon the revelation made to the apostles and prophets who wrote the canonical books, and not on the revelations (if any such there are) made to other doctors.\n\nFor this reason, some sources say that \"prima scriptura\" is the normative Catholic approach. Yves Congar referred to \"prima scriptura\" as the \"normative primacy of Scripture\" as he described the work of Augustine of Hippo and Thomas Aquinas. Pope John Paul II in an address to academics in 1986 said, \"Theology must take its point of departure from a continual and updated return to the Scriptures read in the Church.\" This statement has been taken by some as support for interpreting the Church's teaching in terms of the \"prima scriptura\" perspective.\n\nIn his book, James F. Keenan reports studies by some academics. A study by Bernard Hoose states that claims to a continuous teaching by the Church on matters of sexuality, life and death and crime and punishment are \"simply not true\". After examining seven medieval texts about homosexuality, Mark Jordan argues that, \"far from being consistent, any attempt to make a connection among the texts proved impossible\". He calls the tradition's teaching of the Church \"incoherent\". Karl-Wilhelm Merks considers that tradition itself is \"not the truth guarantor of any particular teaching.\" Keenan, however, says that studies of \"manualists\" such as John T. Noonan Jr. has demonstrated that, \"despite claims to the contrary, manualists were co-operators in the necessary historical development of the moral tradition.\" Noonan, according to Keenan, has provided a new way of viewing at \"areas where the Church not only changed, but shamefully did not\".\n\nEastern Orthodoxy teaches that Scripture is neither above nor below Tradition, and that Scripture is part of the written Tradition of the Church. An analogy is made where the entirety of church life is compared to a jeweled necklace, of which the most precious gem is the large diamond in the center, representing scripture. The other gems represent other parts of the Holy Tradition. While none of the other jewels are equal to the diamond, they nonetheless contribute to its beauty; the diamond looks best as part of the whole necklace (i. e., when viewed within the context of Church tradition). \"Sola\" scriptura, which is analogous to ripping the diamond out of the necklace because one prefers to view it on its own, only detracts from the diamond's beauty and value.\n\nArticle VI of the 39 Articles, \"Of the Sufficiency of the Holy Scriptures for Salvation\" states:\nThe Anglican view of the role on sola scriptura can be best summarized by Richard Hooker. In his famous work \"On the Laws of Ecclesiastical Polity\" he developed a view that would be known in the Anglican tradition as the \"3-legged stool\". This consists of scripture, tradition and reason. Scripture is the source of all revelation in the Christian tradition. At the same time Hooker also saw the necessity of tradition, while not on the same level as scripture, as being an important mediating principle in interpreting. He specifically critiques the Puritan interpretations of sola scriptura that were present at the time in Elizabethan England. This is followed by what Hooker calls the \"law of reason\". Hookers' 3-legged stool would become the basis of the Methodist quadrilateral as well as form a via media between the Catholic and Lutheran understandings on the relationship between scripture and tradition.\n\nAnother version of the \"prima scriptura\" approach may be the Wesleyan Quadrilateral for the Methodists, which maintains that Scripture is to be the primary authority for the Church. Nonetheless, it is best interpreted through the lenses of reason, personal experience, and Church tradition, although the Bible remains the crucial and normative authority for Christians. According to the United Methodist Church, which adheres to this notion:\nThe Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church) accepts the Bible as the word of God \"as far as it is translated correctly,\" and it regards parts of the Apocrypha, some writings of the Protestant Reformers and non-Christian religious leaders, and the non-religious writings of some philosophers - and, notably, the Constitution of the United States of America - to be inspired, though not canonical.\n\nJehovah's Witnesses believe that the interpretation of scripture and codification of doctrines is considered the responsibility of the Governing Body of Jehovah's Witnesses.\n\nThe Quaker concept of the Inner light or the charismatic views of the Holy Spirit as an active force in the life of the believer may be examples of the \"prima scriptura\" approach.\n\nWhile most Pentecostals and Charismatics believe the Bible to be the ultimate authority and would not say that any new revelation can ever contradict the Bible, they do believe that God continues to speak to people today on extra-biblical topics as well as to interpret and apply the text of the Bible.\n\nBesides the Holy Scriptures, the Seventh-day Adventist Church hold Ellen White's writings to be \"a continuing and authoritative source of truth which provide for the church.\"\n\nChristadelphians believe that the Bible is the sole source of instruction from God in terms of the way that they should conduct their affairs. However they do note that some translations of the bible into non-original languages have changed the message, so study of the original texts are important.\n\n"}
{"id": "1884498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884498", "title": "Thomas Wright Hill", "text": "Thomas Wright Hill\n\nThomas Wright Hill (24 April 1763 in Kidderminster – 13 June 1851 in Tottenham) was a mathematician and schoolmaster. He is credited as inventing the single transferable vote in 1819. His son, Rowland Hill, famous as the originator of the modern postal system, introduced STV in 1840 into the world's first public election, for the Adelaide City Council, in which the principle of proportional representation was applied.\n\nIn 1791, Thomas Wright Hill courageously tried to save the apparatus of Dr Joseph Priestley from a mob in the Birmingham 'Church and King' riots of 1791—the offer was declined.\n\nHe was interested in astronomy, being a Fellow of the Royal Astronomical Society, and in computers, as is shown by a letter of his to Charles Babbage, dated 23 March 1836, among the Babbage manuscripts at the British Library, returning some logarithm tables that he had borrowed and adding \"How happy I shall be when I can see such a work verified and enlarged by your divine machine\".\n\nHe started work as a brassfounder, but was more interested in intellectual pursuits, so in 1802 he bought a boys' school on Lionel Street, Birmingham moving it to Hill Top, Gough Street. In 1819, it moved again to a new purpose-built school designed by Rowland at Hazelbrook called Hazelwood on Hagley Road in Edgbaston.\n\nFrom the start the school seems to have been out of the ordinary. In its original prospectus Hill says that \"he will make it his study to excite [his pupils'] reasoning powers, and to induce in them habits of voluntary application ... he will always endeavour, by kindness and patience, to secure for himself their affection and esteem\"; perhaps not revolutionary aims nowadays, but this was more than 25 years before Thomas Arnold became headmaster of Rugby or Charles Dickens wrote Nicholas Nickleby. It is also noteworthy that he was offering \"instruction in art and science\". How many schools at that date would have thought of including science in their curriculum?\n\nAt Hazelwood School, with his sons now bearing a full share in its running, it became a school in which the rules were formed by a committee of the boys, elected by the boys, and enforced by the boys' own law court. Whether or not that is a good way to run a school, the amazing thing is that it existed at all at that time.\n\nIn 1827 a London branch of the school was opened at Bruce Castle, Tottenham, and within a few years all the Hazelwood students had transferred to Bruce Castle, which had been taken over almost entirely by his sons. Hazelwood then became the home of Francis Clark and his wife Caroline (daughter of Thomas Wright Hill) and their large and growing family. They remained there for fifteen years before emigrating to South Australia.\n\nThomas Hill and his sons had strong political views which, at that time, were certainly radical, but always with the conviction that reforms had to come by persuasion, and constitutionally, not by violence. During the agitation leading up to the Great Reform Act of 1832, the fifth son Frederic Hill was freed from duties at the school to devote his time to an active part in the struggle as part of the Birmingham Union. A letter to his son Edwin, dated 15 May 1832, says \"These my dear boy are stirring times ... the enthusiasm and unanimity of the mass who form the Birmingham Union is at once delightful and astonishing. I hope that it will be kept quite within the law. Let the honour of a vigour surmounting that boundary belong to our adversaries; they will not find such forbearance as they may have met with in days past\". As his contribution to the cause \"I am abstaining from tea, coffee, sugar etc., as taxed articles. Would that the massive unions would concur. The revenue then would soon require parliamentary help, and funds would be reserved for useful purposes. But this kind of passive procedure is too much to hope for as a general procedure\".\n\nHe does not seem to have disapproved of a little political trickery, provided the right side was doing it. Writing to his wife, dated 11 May 1831, about the \"patriotic fellows of Haddington\" including her brother, he says \"Their district has five boroughs which choose a member of parliament by one [delegate] from each borough. Haddington was firm and Jedburgh was firm in the good cause. Dunbar was Rotten and the same was North Berwick. Lauder had seven good men in the council out of sixteen. By excellent management the men of Haddington brought away two councilmen from Lauder and entertained them until the business was accomplished, so that now three delegates out of the five are sound reformers ... It is a glorious victory and a proud thing for us to have so near a relative bearing such a part in it\".\n\nIn spite of radical views, he evidently thought well of King George III, for in a letter dated 9 February 1820, just after George IV's accession, he wrote to his son Matthew \"How did your taste accord with bell-ringing and huzzas at the King's proclamation? To me, connected as it was with the death of our late aged and virtuous monarch it was revolting, even to hear of; I saw nothing of the pageantry\".\n\nIn 1819, Thomas and Rowland were instrumental in founding the \"Society for Literary and Scientific Improvement\" of Birmingham. The Society's bylaws include a description of Hill's method of proportional representation, the earliest known version of the single transferable vote:\n\nAccording to Hill's great-great-great grandson David Hill (also a reform activist) the first STV election actually took place on 18 December 1819 one month after the establishment of the society.\n\nHill's grandson (and Rowland's nephew) George Birkbeck Norman Hill wrote, \"The plan of election had been devised by his [Rowland's] father who … was strongly in favour of the representation of minorities.\"\n\nIn 1821, Hill used an informal version of proportional representation in his school.\n\nAlthough this seems likely to be true, when Enid Lakeman was asked for the source of it she could not remember it. It would be wise to regard it with caution until an original reference can be found.\n\nFollowing his death various papers that he had left behind were published in two booklets.\nThe first has contents:\n\nThe second has contents:\n\nThomas Wright Hill married Sarah Lea (1765–1842) on 29 July 1791 at St Martin's Church, Birmingham and had 8 children:\n\n"}
{"id": "1884499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884499", "title": "Mona Shores Public Schools", "text": "Mona Shores Public Schools\n\nMona Shores Public Schools is a public school district located in Michigan, United States, in the western side of the state near Lake Michigan. The district includes most of the city of Norton Shores, which is just south of Muskegon. The superintendent is Bill O'Brien.\n\nThe district was formed in 1959, when the residents of the existing districts of Churchill, Hile, Lincoln, Maple Grove, and Mona Beach (all K-8 districts) voted to unite into a single K-12 district. The district comprises four elementary schools (K-5), one middle school (6-8) and Mona Shores High School, with total enrollment of about 3,800 students.\n\nThe Mona Shores Public Schools has a thriving fine arts department. In 2004, the Mona Shores High School was one of only forty high schools in the country to receive the Grammy Signature School Award for excellence in music education. Mona Shores Public Schools offers band, choir, orchestra, music theory, and guitar courses to its students.\n\nThe school is well known for its band program which includes outstanding Concert Bands, Jazz Ensembles and Marching Band. The Marching Band won state titles in 1993, 1995, 1998, 1999, 2000 and 2003 as well as a USSBA National Championship in 2006. Travel has played an important role in the success of the Mona Shores band program with overseas performance tours every three years since 1972 and many performance tours to the U.S. East coast, South and Midwest. The current director of the Mona Shores band program is Jason Boyden. Assistant directors are Justin Sarns and Gregory Nimtz. Former directors include: John Butterfield (1962-1985) and Jack Adams (1985-2003). Former assistant directors include: Jack Cooke, Bernie Blue, Douglas Hostetler, Susan Veenstra and Timothy Staudacher.\n\nThe district is also well known for its choral program under the current direction of Shawn Lawton (Mona Shores High School) and Rory Closz (Mona Shores Middle School). Former high school directors include Larry Gray and Skip Frizzell. Former middle school directors include Larry Rueger, Kyle Cain and Katherine Bourdon. In 2002, a number of auditioned members of the Mona Shores Singers (the top choir at the time) were invited to perform at the White House for the President and his staff. The choir also presents many annual concerts including Pop go the Sailors and The Singing Christmas Tree, which is the tallest in the United States. The choir's singing Christmas Tree was featured on TLC's production of Extreme Christmas Trees in December 2011.\n\nThe orchestra program was founded in 1986. The high school orchestras, under the direction of Timothy Staudacher, have performed at music festivals and conferences not only in their home state of Michigan, but also throughout the United States including Smoky Mountain Music Festival (1998 - Overall Winner, 1995 - First Division Winner); Magic Music Days at Disney World Florida (2000); Midwest Music Conference in Ann Arbor, Michigan, (2000, 2001, and 2005); American String Teachers Association National Orchestra Festival in Detroit, Michigan, (2007- Fifth Place in the String Orchestra Division); Michigan Music Conference Performing Ensemble (2008). The high school orchestras have consistently earned first division ratings each year in Michigan School Band and Orchestra Association District Festivals. The orchestra began touring internationally in 2000, with a trip to The Czech Music Camp for Youth near Prague in the Czech Republic. The group has since traveled to and performed in China (2005), Ireland and England (2008) and most recently to Czech Republic, Hungary, and Austria in June 2012, under the direction of current middle school orchestra director, Kelly De Rose. Timothy Staudacher also founded the Mona Shores Fiddlers (MSF), an extracurricular alternative styles ensemble, which performs throughout the Muskegon community, including at the Michigan Irish Music Festival. The MSF hosts an annual Fiddle Fest in November which has featured guests artist including Detour, Barrage, and Finvarra's Wren.\n\nMona Shores has also become a powerhouse in ice hockey in the past decade. The team won a state title in 2000, and has consistently made trips to the Frozen Four. In the 2006-2007 season, the team came up short, losing in the championship game to another strong team, Grosse Point South, 4-3 in overtime, on March 10, 2007.\n\nThe boy's basketball team has been on-again and off-again, with the 2006-2007 squad winning the District Championship under the leadership of third-year coach Jeremy Andres.\n\nThe baseball team has also enjoyed a recent rise to power in the Muskegon area. Under the direction of fourth year head coach Walt Gawkowski, the Sailors won the 2006 GMAA, District, and OK-Green titles. The 2006 squad won the first district title in 26 years. The Sailor baseball program has continued to support local universities by turning out college players nearly every year.\n\nThe girl's golf team has won four consecutive Division 2 state championships, the first time any team in the Lower Peninsula has done so.\n\nMona Shores is also known for its outstanding debate teams, having won Novice State Championships in 1982, 1983, 1984, 1986, 1989 and 2007 and Varsity State Championships in 1986 and 1990 and a state finalist in 2002. The team consistently qualifies as a quarter finalist, semifinalist, or finalist in the Novice and Varsity State Tournament. The team was coached by John H. McKendry Jr from 1978 to 1990, coached by Brent Green from 2000 to the 2009-2010 season, before it was handed off to Green's assistant coach Mandi Garvey. \n\nIn September 2010, the district drew nationwide press attention when it prohibited transgender senior Oak Reed from being crowned homecoming king. After many votes were cast for Reed, the votes stopped being counted. The school administration told Reed on September 20, 2010 (homecoming was scheduled for the following weekend) that votes for him were not counted because on his school records he was listed as female and therefore could not serve as king (since the ballot said to vote for one male and one female). News reports about the controversy began spreading on September 26. In the past the school was very accommodating to Reed's needs (separate locker rooms & bathroom assignments, use of male pronouns, allowing Reed to wear the male band uniform and graduation robe). The ACLU was reported to be investigating the case.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1884506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884506", "title": "George Sanderson", "text": "George Sanderson\n\nGeorge Sanderson may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1884508", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884508", "title": "Rascal (film)", "text": "Rascal (film)\n\nRascal is a 1969 American comedy-drama film made by Walt Disney Productions, based on the book of the same name by Sterling North, about a young man and his pet raccoon set in rural Wisconsin.\n\nThe movie is a dramatization of Sterling North's 1963 \"memoir of a better era.\" Born near Edgerton, Wisconsin, North was a former literary editor for newspapers in Chicago and New York City. The movie relates a year in the life of young Sterling North (portrayed by Bill Mumy) and his \"ringtailed wonder\" pet raccoon, Rascal. Although set in Wisconsin, circa 1918, the movie was filmed in California.\n\nThe film features the song \"Summer Sweet\" by Bobby Russell.\n\n\nIn the award-winning book of the same name, all three of Sterling North's real-life siblings are featured in the story: his brother Herschel and his sisters Theodora (Theo) and the future poet and editor Jessica Nelson North. Theo is the only sibling featurrd in the film version.\n\n\"Rascal\" was the first film given a review in a publication by film critic Gene Siskel (later of Siskel and Ebert), appearing in the \"Chicago Tribune\" one month before he became the paper's official film critic in 1969. His review of the film was not favorable (\"Because of excessive gimmickry, most kids will miss the tenderness,\" he wrote).\n\nHoward Thompson of \"The New York Times\" described the film as \"genteel, sweet-natured and appealingly frail,\" but thought the story \"gets a little patly philosophical in trying to thrust practical responsibilities on the young hero, Bill Mumy, and his carefree, widowed father, Steve Forrest.\" \"Variety\" noted, \"Diverting adaptation of Sterling North book about a boy and his pet raccoon. 'Rascal' will pull younger generation as well as family-groups in to see a clean, well-presented, unashamedly sentimental Disney film.\" Charles Champlin of the \"Los Angeles Times\" wrote that \"for the young (and old) audience for which it is intended, 'Rascal' is practically perfect hot weather fare, offering a spacious escape to a world of tree-shaded streets and spacious lawns, verandas, woods and ponds, trotting horses and Stanley Steamers (one at least).\" \"The Monthly Film Bulletin\" stated, \"Routine Disney boy-befriends-animal feature, agreeable enough on its own terms but as mawkishly sentimental as usual and with the additional embarrassment of a commentary by Walter Pidgeon which keeps insisting what a marvellous boyhood summer it all was.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1884512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884512", "title": "Hogan Sheffer", "text": "Hogan Sheffer\n\nHogan Sheffer (June 12, 1958 – September 28, 2019) was an American screenwriter.\n\nSheffer was born in York, Pennsylvania. His full birth name was Mark Wayne Sheffer; he received his nickname of Hogan from younger brother Craig, who thought he looked like pianist/composer Hoagy Carmichael.\n\nFrom 1986 to 1994, he worked as a freelancer and did script analysis for various production companies. He also worked for Mary Stuart Masterson at her production company. From 1997 to 2000, he was employed by DreamWorks as the Director of Screenplay Development under producers Mark Johnson and Elizabeth Cantillon. He was in charge of developing screenplays for films like \"My Dog Skip\", \"Galaxy Quest\", \"Home Fries\", and \"What Lies Beneath\".\n\nSheffer is perhaps best known for his stint as Head Writer of the CBS Daytime drama \"As the World Turns\" from 2000 to 2005.\n\nWhen Procter & Gamble, the company that produces \"As the World Turns\", hired Sheffer, it came as a surprise to both industry figures and viewers. Some fans became concerned when, in an interview, he admitted he had never seen \"As the World Turns\" or sister soap \"Guiding Light\" before he was asked to watch them. P&G gave Sheffer a choice of which show he'd like to write for, and although he commented that \"ATWT\" had been \"boring as hell\", he saw potential in the show.\n\nSheffer's take on \"As the World Turns\", an aging show in one of the oldest genres in television, was seen by some as reinvigorating the program. During Sheffer's writing regime, the show won many Daytime Emmy Awards; Sheffer and his team received four Emmys for \"Outstanding Drama Series Writing Team\" in 2001, 2002, 2004, and 2005. \"ATWT\" 's loss in 2003 was blamed on technical difficulties with their Emmy reel, as the clips judges watched had either bad or no sound and were tinted green. Also, Sheffer became a favorite of reporters for his comical one-liners.\n\nSheffer's writing style alienated a number of longtime fans of \"ATWT\", who complained that he rewrote characters to suit the purposes of a given storyline. In particular, he and his team were criticized for departing from history and/or established character motivation and behavior. While some storylines for veteran characters worked well (turning Barbara Ryan into a villainess), others seemed inappropriate for the character, like Margo's flirtation with misogynistic football player Doc.\n\nThroughout its run, \"As the World Turns\" had perhaps the largest group of veterans still active in the cast; during the Sheffer's tenure, a dozen actors were on contract to the show (or were recurring in their roles) who had been with the show for 20 or more years. Some of the veteran actors on the show (most vocally Eileen Fulton who played longtime heroine Lisa Grimaldi) also complained that their characters' airtime diminished dramatically during Sheffer's tenure.\n\nIn March 2005, Sheffer took what was referred to a \"17-week sabbatical\" from \"ATWT\", at which time other writers like Leah Laiman, Christopher Whitesell, and Jean Passanante took over. P&G initially indicated that he would return at the end of his sabbatical, but announced a few weeks later that Sheffer would not be returning to his position as Head Writer; the company promoted Jean Passanante to the position permanently.\n\nReasons for his leave and subsequent firing were unclear. There were suggestions that Sheffer was ill; there were also suggestions that he had taken a leave to undergo gastric bypass surgery. However, no statements confirming the reason for his leave were made. Before being placed on a 17-week sabbatical, Sheffer was unhappy at \"ATWT\", as a planned two-year storyline was cut short by higher-ups.\n\nWhen he won his fourth Daytime Emmy for \"ATWT\" in 2005, he did not attend the ceremony. Jean Passanante accepted the award. Passanante thanked Sheffer for \"his big heart and brilliant imagination\" and said the entire writing staff at the show would \"miss him\".\n\nIn 2002, when Richard Culliton was fired from the ABC Daytime soap opera \"All My Children\", it was speculated that Sheffer would leave \"ATWT\" to take over that soap. After Sheffer was fired in 2005, speculation again circulated that Sheffer would head to \"One Life to Live\" to join Dena Higley as head writer, or to help out the low-rated \"Guiding Light\" as an Executive Consultant.\n\n\"ATWT\" fans were shocked when in the summer of 2005, Sheffer was asked to return as head writer. He declined, but agreed to take a lesser position on the writing staff, much like Leah Laiman did in early 2005 when she returned to writing for the show. In October 2005, Sheffer returned to \"ATWT\" as a breakdown writer. Sheffer stated that his favorite serials on ABC Daytime and CBS Daytime are \"General Hospital\" and \"As the World Turns\".\n\nOn June 12, 2006, Sheffer confirmed he was joining \"Days of Our Lives\" as the new Head Writer with Meg Kelly Sheffer's stories began airing in October 2006. Sheffer's last episode aired January 24, 2008.\n\nSheffer appeared with \"DAYS\" star Mary Beth Evans on the SOAPnet show \"I Wanna Be a Soap Star\" in 2007.\n\nOn May 21, 2008, it was announced that Sheffer had joined \"The Young and the Restless\" as co-Head Writer. He worked closely with Maria Arena Bell and Scott Hamner. His episodes began airing July 15, 2008 \n\nIn late July 2012 due to the firings of Maria Arena Bell and Scott Hamner, it was announced that Sheffer's contract was up as of that November, and it wouldn't be extended. He remained credited as co-head writer on air shows until February 1, 2013.\n\n\"As the World Turns\"\n\n\"Days of Our Lives\"\n\n\"The Young and the Restless\"\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1884524", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884524", "title": "Spookyfish", "text": "Spookyfish\n\n\"Spookyfish\" is the fifteenth episode of the second season of the American animated television series \"South Park\". The 28th episode of the series overall, it originally aired on Comedy Central in the United States on October 28, 1998. The episode was written and directed by series co-creator Trey Parker. It was the season's Halloween special, featuring the \"spooky\" theme of having pictures of Barbra Streisand in the screen corners, accompanied with the words \"Spooky Vision\" (in response to Streisand's negative reception to the season one episode \"Mecha-Streisand\").\n\nIn the episode, Aunt Flo comes to stay, but her goldfish she bought for Stan Marsh turns out to be evil. Also \"Cartman\" grows a beard and starts acting strangely nice and agreeable.\n\nCartman has skipped class, but shows up at the bus stop to meet the boys when they get off the bus, wearing a goatee and acting strangely agreeable. Cartman explains that he missed school that day because he was taking care of the house for his mother, who has the flu. The boys are shocked and confused at this news coming from the normally obnoxious and uncaring Cartman. Later, Stan arrives home, where his mother, Sharon Marsh, tells him that his Aunt Flo has come to visit. Aunt Flo gives Stan's sister Shelly a huge stereo system and gives Stan a goldfish in a bowl. Stan doesn't like the fish and finds it spooky because of the way it stares at him, but Sharon insists that he put it in his room.\n\nThe next morning at the bus stop, Stan and Kyle expect to meet the new version of Cartman. However, Cartman arrives in his normal obnoxious mood. That night, it is stormy, and the nice version of Cartman appears at Kenny's house to deliver some provisions for the storm. Stan is in bed, trying to sleep despite being repeatedly terrorized by the fish. Despite what Stan says, Sharon remains unconvinced that there is any trouble until Stan finds a dead body on the floor. Stan, Kyle, and Kenny discover that the two personalities of Cartman are in fact two separate people. Chef tells the boys that the kinder version of Cartman is from a parallel universe and that Stan's fish must be from the same world. Stan, Kyle, and the kind Cartman track down the Ancient Indian Burial Ground Pet Store, where they find the portal to the alternate universe.\n\nAfter returning the fish to the owner, the boys leave, just as Stan and Kyle from the evil world arrive to retrieve their Cartman. They align with the regular Cartman, and the trio find the regular Stan and Kyle along with Evil Cartman. The evil Stan and Kyle have a gun that sends things back to the alternate world, which is used on them by regular Stan. Stan and Kyle attempt to send their Cartman to the parallel universe, so they can retain the friendly Cartman, but the regular Cartman tricks them by saying something he wouldn't normally say.\n\nBefore the episode was broadcast, Comedy Central promoted that the \"\"South Park\" Halloween Special\" would be broadcast in \"Spooky Vision\". Upon airing, \"Spooky Vision\" turned out to simply mean that singer Barbra Streisand's face was in each corner of the screen, with the words \"Spooky Vision\" written on the sides of the screen. In subsequent broadcasts of the episode, Comedy Central does not always use \"Spooky Vision\", although on occasion they still present the episode in its original format. Moreover, in the home video releases, the HD remaster version, on Netflix instant stream, and on the official \"South Park\" website, the episode retains the visuals of \"Spooky Vision\".\n\nTravis Fickett of \"IGN\" gave the episode a score of 9 out of 10, praising the \"great shot in the episode where the two Cartmans meet, and [how] it looks like a badly pulled off split screen effect – an effect they stick with throughout the episode. It's little jokes like this, and attention to detail that set South Park apart in the early days.\" He pointed out how fun it was for him \"to watch Sharon lose her mind as she believes the bodies she's burying are Stanley's victims. 'Such a handsome boy' she mutters to herself as she hauls a bloodied corpse out the door.\" He concluded by commenting on the \"classic 'Who is the good one?' scene when The Cartmans face off\", calling it \"fun, funny, and clever and an early example of South Park greatness.\"\n\nPhil Dyess-Nugent for \"The A.V. Club\" found the highlight of the episode to be Cartman's scenes, particularly those referencing \"\". He also enjoyed a joke involving Aunt Flo's Parkinson's disease, calling it \"one of the random, sickest jokes that has ever knocked [him] off the couch\". He disliked the \"Spooky Vision\" concept, however, comparing it to his dislike of \"Mecha-Streisand\", an episode from season one which also depicted Barbra Streisand.\n\n\"Spookyfish\" was first released in 2002 in a collection of episodes entitled \"Ghouls, Ghosts and Underpants Gnomes\". The VHS version of this collection contains \"Spookyfish\", along with the third season Halloween episode \"Korn's Groovy Pirate Ghost Mystery\", as well as \"Gnomes\" from the second season. The DVD release contains all of the above, as well as the fourth-season episode \"Trapper Keeper\". \"South Park: The Complete Second Season\" was released on DVD on June 3, 2003. Episodes of season two have also been released digitally on services such as Amazon Video, the iTunes Store, and Xbox Live Marketplace. Like most episodes of \"South Park\", \"Spookyfish\" is available to watch for free for Americans on the show's website, SouthParkStudios.com.\n\n"}
{"id": "1884530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884530", "title": "Leader of the Opposition (Northern Territory)", "text": "Leader of the Opposition (Northern Territory)\n\nThe Leader of the Opposition is an official role usually occupied by the leader of the second largest party in the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. In the event that that party or coalition wins an election, the Leader of the Opposition will most likely become the Chief Minister.\n\nWhile the Legislative Assembly was created in 1974, there was no parliamentary opposition for the first three-year term, as every seat was held by the government, with the exception of two that were won by independents.\n\nOn 18 March 2020 Terry Mills claimed to have become Opposition Leader on the basis of the Territory Alliance now having three MLAs to the Country Liberal Party's two. No motion acknowledging a change in the office was passed by the Assembly. On 24 March 2020 Mills presented a shadow Cabinet to the Assembly and was initially referred to as Leader of the Opposition, without formal motion. However later that day Lia Finocchiaro moved that the office of Leader of the Opposition be declared vacant as it was \"unclear\" who the \"official opposition\" was, and that a secret ballot between the two be held to determine Opposition Leader status. The motion was passed and Finocchiaro won the ballot 5-3, with Labor MLAs present not voting. \n"}
{"id": "1884533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884533", "title": "Allah Lanjutkan Usia Sultan", "text": "Allah Lanjutkan Usia Sultan\n\nAllah Lanjutkan Usia Sultan (English: \"God Lengthen the Sultan's Age\") is the state anthem of Perak, Malaysia.\n\nThe tune was originally that of a popular song in Seychelles during the 19th century, originally written by French Pierre Jean de Beranger. It was adopted as the Perak Royal Anthem by Sultan Abdullah Muhammad Shah II, who was exiled on Seychelles for abetting murder.\n\nIn 1957, the national anthem of Malaysia, \"Negaraku\" was set to the melody of \"Allah Lanjutkan Usia Sultan\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1884539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884539", "title": "Lentekhi", "text": "Lentekhi\n\nLentekhi (, ) is a small town and Lentekhi District's (Raion) capital in Georgia's western region of Racha-Lechkhumi and Kvemo Svaneti, 323 km northwest to the nation's capital Tbilisi. Situated on the southern slope of the Central Caucasus, the district is a site of alpinism.\n\nLentekhi ethnographically belongs to a historic Georgian province of Lower, or Kvemo Svaneti. Cultural heritage of the area includes several monuments, particularly St George's Church of Jgëræg (the 10th century), the Archangel Church of Thargizel (the 9–10th centuries), Tekal Church (the 10–11th centuries), Lentekhi Castle of the Dadiani, and the famous Svanetian towers in the village Leksuri.\n\nThere is a river that goes through the town and its inhabitants survive largely off of farming and lumber, though in recent years government restrictions have slowed this latter industry. Like in much of Georgia, tourism is seen as the future source of income as the weather in lower Svaneti is not as severe and Lentekhi is one of the larger towns before arriving in Mestia. Nevertheless, as in much of Svaneti, there has been a tendency for the younger generation to migrate to the larger cities or to find work overseas for economic reasons.\n\nEvery spring, there is a festival at the church high in the mountain above the town. There is a singing hall and one restaurant next to the river which serves traditional food of the region to travelers and sometimes locals. A spring flows from the mountainside with fresh mineral water of which the town consistently drinks.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1884542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884542", "title": "Konedobu", "text": "Konedobu\n\nKonedobu is a suburb of Port Moresby, the capital of Papua New Guinea. It is located in the valley in between Touaguba Hill and Burns Peak.\n\nThe suburb is the location of numerous Government departments, including the headquarters of the Royal Papua New Guinea Constabulary. It also contains residential areas and The Hubert Murray Sports Stadium. The Aviat club and Royal Papua Yacht Club are located in Konedobu. The suburb is often referred to as 'Kone'. Prominent thoroughfares in Konedobu include Lawes Road and the Poreporena Freeway.\n\nThe \"Papua New Guinea Post-Courier\" has its head office in Konedobu.\n"}
{"id": "1884544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884544", "title": "John Hebden", "text": "John Hebden\n\nJohn Hebden (1712–1765) was a composer and musician in 18th century Great Britain.\n\nLittle is known of Hebden's life. He was baptized on 21 July 1712 at Spofforth, near Harrogate in Yorkshire, the son of 'John Hebdin' of Plompton. He was orphaned when young but was fortunate enough to receive an excellent education, including musical tuition.\n\nHe lived most of his life in York. In 1732, he married Mary Prestland. Their first son, John, born in 1733, survived only a short time. A second son was baptized in 1736, but Mary died shortly afterwards, in 1737. Hebden was left with the responsibility of bringing up his small son and working long hours earning enough to live. When Hebden was dying, he arranged for money to be left in trust for his son, to be released in only small amounts.\n\nAround 1742, Hebden moved to London, and when composer Thomas Arne enlarged the orchestra at Vauxhall Gardens in 1745, he became the principal cellist and bassoonist. It is also known that he played in a performance of \"Messiah\" directed by George Frideric Handel himself, to raise money for the Foundling Hospital.\n\nHebden was principally an orchestral player and as such his social status and his income would have been low. He might, had he chosen, have supplemented his income considerably by composing popular songs, as did a number of his fellow musicians. Hebden was a professional bassoonist, gamba (viol) player and cellist and, in the 1730s, composed music for a small local professional orchestra containing \"all the best Hands in Town.\" They gave many concerts at the York Assembly Rooms, which were designed by Richard Boyle, 3rd Earl of Burlington who was a patron to Handel.\n\nIt appears that Hebden had greater aspirations for his talent and channeled his creativity in a highly disciplined manner into more serious works. Only two were published: Six Solos for German Flute and the Six Concertos for Strings.\n\nThe latter were probably begun around 1745 and published in about 1749 in an edition of approximately 500. Subscribers included the Earl and Countess of Burlington as well as other aristocracy; a number of academics and organists; taverns such as The Devil and The Globe in Fleet Street where concerts were held; the actor David Garrick (who produced many of Shakespeare's plays at Drury Lane) and some of the other Vauxhall musicians, including Valentine Snow for whom Handel wrote his famous trumpet solos; several composers including Arne and William Boyce (who both worked for Garrick at Drury Lane, composing music for many of his productions), Giovanni Battista Sammartini and Geminiani. Of this edition, only six copies have survived: two in London, one in Brussels and three in the United States. An incomplete set also survives in a private collection at Durham.\n\nThese six concertos were discovered only fairly recently. In 1980, Ruzena Wood, then repertoire consultant for the group Cantilena, had become interested in Hebden after studying his First Sonata for Flute and Keyboard. She began searching to find if he had written any music for strings. Finally, she discovered in the library of the British Museum, the six forgotten concertos which had lain unplayed for 200 years.\n\nHebden's Concertos are in the baroque style, and in them he adheres to the 18th century convention of writing happy music in sharp keys and sad music in flat keys. They are most influenced by the Italian composer and violinist, Geminiani, a follower of Arcangelo Corelli, who came to England in 1714 and from whom Thomas Arne may have had violin lessons. The concertos are in seven parts, written for four violins, viola, 'cello and harpsichord. Two (No. 2 in C major and No. 3 in C minor) have three movements (allegro-largo-allegro) and the others are in four movements (an opening adagio followed by alternating fast and slow movements). The fast movements are characterized by lively dance rhythms: while these are Italian in texture, they distinctly echo the English country dances with which Hebden would have been familiar with from his days in Yorkshire.\n\nHis only surviving works are the 6 concertos for strings (Op. 2): \n\nand his 6 solos for flute and harpsichord.\n"}
{"id": "1884551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884551", "title": "The Best of Simon and Garfunkel", "text": "The Best of Simon and Garfunkel\n\nThe Best of Simon and Garfunkel is the fifth greatest hits album by Simon & Garfunkel, released by Columbia Records, containing 20 tracks.\n\nAll songs written and composed by Paul Simon, except where noted.\n\nProducers: Tom Wilson, Bob Johnston, John Simon, Paul Simon, Arthur Garfunkel, Roy Halee & Phil Ramone\n"}
{"id": "1884556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884556", "title": "High Weald Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty", "text": "High Weald Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty\n\nThe High Weald Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty is in south-east England. Covering an area of , it takes up part of the counties of East Sussex, Kent, West Sussex and Surrey in order of respective contribution. It is the fourth largest Area of Outstanding Beauty (AONB) in England and Wales. It is characterised by an attractive landscape containing a mosaic of small farms and woodlands, historic parks, sunken lanes and ridge-top villages.\n\nThe High Weald AONB was designated under the National Park and Access to the Countryside Act 1949 in October 1983. Designation as an AONB gave official recognition to the unique landscape of the High Weald, strengthened the ability of government agencies and local authorities to conserve and enhance the landscape, and provided priority for financial support for these objectives from the principal government agency responsible for AONBs, the Countryside Agency (now Natural England). AONBs do not possess separate administrative structures like Britain's National Parks, but rely on existing structures. In the case of the High Weald, this requires co-ordination of the policies and management activities of fifteen local authorities, comprising four counties (Surrey, West Sussex, East Sussex and Kent) and eleven district authorities.\n\nThe High Weald lies at the core of the distinctive Weald anticline. At its margins are the relatively flat clay vales of the Low Weald, the Greensand Ridge, the North Downs and South Downs. At the centre, the sandstones and clays formed geologically of the Hastings Beds of the early Cretaceous period rise up to give the characteristic forested ridges of the High Weald. This geology and the subsequent dissection of the sandstone core by rivers such as the Ouse, Medway and Rother are fundamental to its underlying landscape character. The headwaters of these rivers have cut deep, steep-sided valleys (ghylls) which are wet and clayey. On this underlying geological structure centuries if not millennia of human activity have created the landscape that is visible today.\n\nThe entire Weald was once heavily wooded and, even though the vast woodland that lay between the North Downs and South Downs, which was known to the Celtic Britons as \"Coit Andred\", to the Romans as \"Silva Anderida\", and to the Saxons first as \"Andredesleage\" and later \"Andredesweald\", has been much reduced and fragmented as the result of human activity over the last 1,500 years, woodland remains at a much higher density in the High Weald than elsewhere.\n\nAt the time of the Domesday Book, 1086, the High Weald was the most wooded natural area in England. Today, 24.6% of the AONB is woodland, compared with a national average of about 9%. Of this, 17.6% is ancient woodland; in other words, over half the area's woodlands are ancient. The area of the High Weald AONB represents only 1% of England yet it has 3.4% of England's woodlands, making it one of the most densely wooded landscapes.\n\nAll this gives the High Weald a wooded appearance when viewed from a distance from a hilltop, but on closer inspection a close patchwork of small fields, hedges and woods connected by sunken lanes created by centuries of transportation which patterns the rolling wooded ridges and valleys becomes apparent.\n\nThe unique Wealden landscape of small fields and scattered farmsteads was created by pioneer farmers of the late medieval period. The early settlements in this period were formed on the better warm soils, the drier ridge tops and the river valleys, the latter two being the main lines of communication.\n\nThe wooded relief and comparative inaccessibility historically provided the High Weald with a sense of enclosure and remoteness that can still be appreciated today, and which contrasts with the more open nature of the surrounding Low Weald and starkly with the generally populous and urbanised nature of south-east England as a whole.\n\nThe highest sandstone hills of the High Weald are referred to as the Weald Forest Ridge. This ridge includes a number of ancient heathland forests, notably Ashdown Forest, St Leonards Forest, Worth Forest and Dallington Forest. Ancient woodland covers 22% of the Weald Forest Ridge (total woodland cover is 40%), which represents a significant proportion of the resource in the UK.\n\nWith an estimated population of around 124,880 and a density of 0.85 people per hectare, the High Weald AONB is an essentially rural area characterised by a landscape of scattered villages and dispersed settlement. Two major towns, Tunbridge Wells and Crowborough, lie within the AONB but are excluded from it. Battle and Cranbrook, each with more than 6,000 inhabitants, are the largest settlements actually in the AONB. The High Weald AONB is closely bordered by several major population centres, notably Crawley, Horsham, East Grinstead, Tonbridge, Hastings, Uckfield and Haywards Heath. These major towns, taken together with Tunbridge Wells, Crowborough and Battle, account for almost 400,000 people. These people and their housing demands have led to central government policy decisions to review the status of land in the AONB but supply many of the regular users of the biodiverse open spaces in the hinterland of London.\n\nFarming was a marginal activity and production typically mirrored local demand; woodland however was measured in terms of how many hogs it would support in the Domesday survey, the raising of which in woodland mainly ceased by the 20th century. Powerful mills, major roads and canals were also few. These factors, combined with the area's relative inaccessibility, made it one of the least prosperous areas of southern England. However, the rapid growth of the iron industry from about 1490, together with the development of crafts such as weaving and tanning, made it, for a time, one of the wealthiest districts of England. By the 18th and 19th centuries these activities had moved to more favourable areas, leaving farming as the mainstay of the rural economy, though the majority of farms were and remain small and seldom very profitable.\n\nToday, agriculture, mainly livestock farming, remains the main AONB land use, but in 2007 it only accounted for 67.5% of the total area, an increase of 6% from 2000; by 2010 agriculture may account for less than half the area.\n\nEmployment in the traditional rural industries of the High Weald, agriculture, forestry and mineral working (gypsum, notably, is mined from the Purbeck Beds near Battle), declined rapidly during the late 20th century to a point where less than 10% of employees are now engaged in these activities. In the case of agriculture, only around 4,500 people are now employed out of a total estimated population of 124,880. Despite this, agriculture remains an important employer, along with tourism and leisure. There are few large firms in the private sector, and most firms are very small.\n\nSignificant wealth has been brought into the High Weald over the centuries by those from outside wishing to live there. The trend for prosperous urban dwellers to move to the countryside is apparent as early as the 14th century. Kent was the most popular destination due in part to its accessibility to London and its particular form of land tenure which enabled land to be freely negotiable. The process of migration accelerated in the 19th century with the advent of the railways, which made access from London much easier. The resources brought into the area by wealthy incomers created and maintained the many parks and gardens that are now characteristic of the High Weald landscape.\n\nToday the High Weald is still economically dependent, not so much on wealthy landowners but on large numbers of commuters living there who travel outside the area to work, mainly to the Crawley/Gatwick conurbation, the coastal towns and London. Today 70% of residents commute to work outside the area while less than 7% make their living directly from the land.\n\nSeveral long distance paths cross the AONB: High Weald Landscape Trail, Wealdway, 1066 Country Walk, Saxon Shore Way, Vanguard Way and Sussex Border Path. The total length of footpaths is 2063 kilometres.\n\nBewl Water, one of five reservoirs in the AONB, is the largest body of inland water in south-east England and one of the area's most important tourist and recreational destinations.\n\nBedgebury Forest, a large area of ancient woodland and heath covering some , has facilities for mountain biking, horse-riding and other recreational activities, while Bedgebury National Pinetum, which the forest surrounds, is said to be the most complete collection of conifers on one site anywhere in the world, and a major tourist attraction.\n\nAshdown Forest is an internationally important area of lowland heathland occupying the highest sandstone ridge-top of the High Weald. It was also the setting for the Winnie-the-Pooh stories of AA Milne. Accounting for two-thirds (65.5%) of the AONB's heathland, it receives special protection as a UK Site of Special Scientific Interest, as a European Union Special Protection Area for birds and European Union Special Area of Conservation for its heathland habitats, and by its membership of Natura 2000, which brings together Europe's most important and threatened wildlife areas. Ashdown Forest's commons are open to the public.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1884557", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884557", "title": "Badri Patarkatsishvili", "text": "Badri Patarkatsishvili\n\nArkady Shalvovich \"Badri\" Patarkatsishvili ( 31 October 1955 – 12 February 2008) was a Jewish-Georgian businessman who also became extensively involved in politics. He contested the 2008 Georgian presidential election and came third with 7.1% of the votes. Although his first name was Arkady, he was best known by the nickname \"Badri\". From the early 1980s, until the time of his death, he was a flamboyant figure in business and was behind some of the most successful companies in today's Russia. From humble origins, he became the wealthiest citizen in Georgia with an estimated wealth of $12bn. He was also one of the country's largest philanthropists.\n\nPatarkatsishvili suddenly died intestate in February 2008 sparking one of the largest estate battles in legal history. In October 2018, the government of Georgia officially accused the former president of Georgia Mikheil Saakashvili of ordering the assassination of Badri Patarkatsishvili.\n\nBorn in Tbilisi to a Jewish family, Patarkatsishvili became an active member of the Komsomol, the youth wing of the Soviet Communist Party during the 1980s. He eventually became Komsomol leader at Maudi, a large textile operation.\n\nIn 1984, Badri became Deputy Director General of Gruzavtovazprom, a company that purchased and delivered cars and spare parts from AvtoVAZ, which was at the time, the largest car manufacturer in the Soviet Union. It was during trips made to the AvtoVAZ plant that he first met Boris Berezovsky who was to become a close friend and business associate. In 1989, Badri and Berezovsky founded LogoVaz with some of the senior executives of AvtoVAZ. LogoVaz developed software for AvtoVAZ, sold Soviet-made cars and serviced foreign cars. It was established as a joint venture with Logo Systems, an Italian company, which at the time was seen as pioneering in commercial relationships between East and West. LogoVaz established an office in Georgia and Badri became Deputy Director General of the company.\n\nIn 1992, Badri and his family moved to Moscow where he quickly became part of Berezovsky's increasingly influential political circle. LogoVaz had by this time become an extremely successful company and had made Badri a wealthy man. At the time, the Soviet Union was collapsing and there was a great deal of political uncertainty in the region. Badri, along with Berezvosky and other successful businessmen were supportive of Boris Yeltsin as he had liberalised trade with foreign countries, allowing their businesses to grow, however the wider economy was performing badly and there was growing support for Nikolai Ryzhkov's reformed communist party.\n\nBy 1994, Berezovsky had secured control of ORT, the largest TV station in Russia at the time, and he installed Badri as First Deputy General Director. Badri and Berezovsky then use the station's influence to assist Boris Yeltsin to victory in the 1996 presidential election. From 1994 until mid 2000, Badri was a key figure at ORT.\n\nIn 1997, he was selected to oversee the privatization of the Sibneft oil company. Sibneft was the youngest oil holding company in Russia at the time having been created hastily in early 1995 out of Rosneft. An unknown entity, Oil Finance Corporation (NFK), that had been created out of Menatep, a holding company started by Mikhail Khodorkovsky, won the auction. Berezovsky had an interest in the Menatep Group and for this reason, there was some speculation that the auction had been fixed. It later emerged that the company had been sold for a fraction of the market value.\n\nAfter Badri died, in 2012, the Sibneft privatisation was to become the subject of a high court legal battle between Chelsea football club owner Roman Abramovich and Berezovsky. According to \"The Times\", Abramovich submitted a 53-page court defence that accused Boris Berezovsky and Badri Patarkatsishvili of demanding huge sums for helping him to rise from obscurity. Badri emerged as the key intermediary, passing messages between Abramovich and Berezovsky. Badri was offered $500 million by Roman Abramovich, the defence papers that were submitted admit, for protecting Roman in Russia's aluminium wars.\n\nFollowing his success at ORT, in April 2001, Badri was appointed General Director of Russia's TV6 channel, which, like ORT, was partly owned by Berezovsky. Under his control, TV6 became notorious for its anti-Kremlin line.\n\nIn the late 1990s, Berezovsky and Badri also purchased Kommersant the one of Russia's most influential political newspapers. In 2006, Berezovsky sold his controlling stake to Badri increasing Badri's holding to 100%. Badri then organised the sale of Kommersant in August 2006 to senior Gazprom executive Alisher Usmanov.\n\nBy mid 1999, Boris Yeltsin began losing his grip on power and Boris Berezovsky began to play an important role in the hunt for his successor. He did this in order to counter the political aspirations of the Prime Minister Yevgeny Primakov, who was seen as more of a statist. As Berezovsky lost favour with the Kremlin, investigations began into his business affairs which Berezovsky claimed to be politically motivated. This eventually led to an arrest warrant for Berezovsky being issued in April 1999 by the Prosecutor General, Yury Skuratov. Although Badri had sought to distance himself from Berezovsky's political dealings his proximity to Berezovsky was such that he began to fear that he may also be arrested so in 2000 Badri left Moscow for his native Georgia.\n\nWhen Vladimir Putin was elected in March 2000, Badri hoped that the situation for Berezovsky and himself in Russia would improve. He and Berezovsky had supported Putin in his election campaign. Badri later claimed that he had recommended Putin to Pavel Borodin, then a senior member of President Boris Yeltsin's Kremlin administration. Berezovsky had also gotten Putin appointed as Russian FSB director.\n\nHowever, Berezovsky quickly fell out with the new president. On May 31, Berezovsky sharply attacked the constitutional reform proposed by Putin, which would give the Kremlin the right to dismiss elected governors. In an open letter to Putin published in Kommersant Berezovsky, then a Duma deputy, said that he would be obliged to vote against the president's legislative project, which was \"directed toward changing the state's structure\" and represented a \"threat to Russia's territorial integrity and democracy.\" Things came to ahead in August 2000 when Berezovsky used ORT to attack Putin for his handling of the sinking of the Kursk submarine, blaming the death of 118 sailors on the Kremlin's reluctance to accept foreign help. This began to put pressure also on to Badri, whose association with Berezovsky was well known and was at the time, controlling the ORT station.\n\nIn December 2000, Nikolay Glushkov a co-founder of AvtoVAZ and a close associate of Badri and Berezovsky was arrested as part of the Russian Prosecutor General's investigation in Aeroflot, a company that Berezovsky had an interest in. Badri and Berezovsky believed the arrest to be politically motivated and part of the Kremlin's attempt to put pressure on their businesses. Glushkov suffered from a hereditary blood disease and had to receive special medical treatment in hospital. Badri and Berezovsky began negotiations with the Government for his release agreeing to give up their media interests and for Berezovsky to end his political ambitions. However, in June 2001, the Russian Prosecutor General's Office charged Badri with organizing an attempted escape from prison of Glushkov and issued an arrest warrant for him through Interpol.\n\nKnowing that he would not be given a fair trial, Badri refused to come in for questioning and, on July 4, 2001, he gave an interview to the \"Kommersant\" newspaper setting out his version of events in an attempt to clear his name. To avoid prosecution in Russia, Badri moved to Tbilisi where he had been granted political asylum. Further charges relating to the misappropriation of AvtoVaz were added in October 2002.\n\nUpon his return Badri began investing much of the vast wealth that he had accumulated in Russia into his native country. He had become personally wealthier than the entire state budget and so was able to invest in business ventures and charitable projects in a scale that had been previously unimaginable to the impoverished country. He bought the Tbilisi city football team, Dinamo Tbilisi, the Kulevi oil terminal and financed a new shopping centre in the capital and a holiday resort on the Black Sea.\n\nHe also became the head of the federation of Georgian businessmen and head of the Georgian National Olympic Committee, subsidized social programs and cultural activities, and on two occasions paid debts for the gas and electricity consumed by Tbilisi residents. He funded several charity projects including schools, amusement parks - even a monastery. In return for these paternal gifts, the then president Eduard Shevardnadze agreed to allow Badri the state's protection from charges against him in Russia.\n\nIn December 2001, he founded Imedi Media Holding, the first independent broadcasting station in Georgia.\n\nDuring his early career, Badri had shown little interest in politics. However, when the Rose Revolution began in 2003 and Badri could see that Eduard Shevardnadze was losing his grip on power, he used his wealth to support the new opposition candidate Mikheil Saakashvili.\n\nRelations between Badri and Saakashvili soon deteriorated however and they became bitter rivals. Badri claimed that this was due to the coverage given by Imedi to opposition parties, Saakasvili however claimed that Badri was attempting to use his wealth to gain control of business life in Georgia. Badri began financing opposition parties in late 2006 and early 2007 and a pro-Patarkatsishvili group in parliament soon emerged that developed into the Our Georgia party. \nIn late 2007, he became embroiled in a political scandal after former defense minister Irakli Okruashvili on September 25, 2007, accused Mikheil Saakashvili, the President of Georgia, of planning Patarkatsishvili's assassination. Arrested on corruption charges, however, Okruashvili retracted his accusations against the president, winning release on bail of 10 million Georgian lari (about US$6,250,000). He also said that his earlier accusations levelled against Saakashvili were not true and were aimed at gaining political dividends for himself and Badri Patarkatsishvili and at discrediting the President of Georgia. On November 6, Okruashvili, said on Patarkatsishvili's Imedi TV - by then managed by Fox TV's parent News Corporation - that he had been forced into retracting his accusations against Saakashvili by pressure that he endured in prison. Down the line from Munich, he said: \"All of those accusations, all of those facts that I brought against Saakashvili, everything I said about him is the plain truth.\"\n\nAs Badri lost favour with Saakashvili's government In 2007, numerous allegations of corruption were made against him. He was impeached as president of the Georgian National Olympic Committee, and also quit as a president of the Georgian Business Federation. Tbilisi-based Rustavi 2 TV, a channel controlled by Saakashvili's government, linked his name with several notorious murders in Russia and Georgia, including the assassination of Vlad Listyev.\n\nOn October 29, 2007, Badri publicly announced his plans to finance ten opposition parties' campaign aimed at holding early parliamentary elections in April 2008. On November 2, 2007, he addressed a large anti-government rally held in downtown Tbilisi and pledged to further support it. He left Georgia for London shortly afterwards. After the demonstration turned violent, following police attacks, on November 7, 2007, Georgia's Chief Prosecutor's Office announced that he was suspected of conspiracy to overthrow the government. Nevertheless, he said he would run in the January 5, 2008, snap presidential elections under the slogan \"Georgia without Saakashvili is Georgia without Terror.\" Leaders of the major opposition parties distanced themselves from Patarkatsishvili, who had to run as an independent presidential candidate.\n\nOn December 24 and 25, 2007, the prosecutor-general's office of Georgia released a series of audio and video recordings of the two separate meetings of the high-ranking Georgian Interior Ministry official Erekle Kodua with Patarkatsishvili and the head of his pre-election campaign Valeri Gelbakhiani. According to the government, Patarkatsishvili was trying to bribe Kodua to take part in what the Georgian officials described as an attempted coup d'état on January 6, 2008, the next of the scheduled presidential elections. The plan included to stage a mass manifestation against the government and to \"neutralize\" the Interior Minister Vano Merabishvili. Later independent journalist Vakhtang Komakidze produced what he said was the full transcript of the recorded conversation which showed that Patarkatsishvili was advising against violence and the extracts released had been doctored The accusations forced Patarkatsishvili onto the defensive. He confirmed that he met with Kodua in London, but denied that the bribe was in connection to an alleged coup plot and claimed instead that his intention was to uncover what he said were official plans to rig the election. He also confirmed that he offered Kodua \"a huge amount of money\" in exchange for defecting from the authorities allegedly to avert a possible use of force by the government against the planned January rallies.\n\nOn December 28, 2007, Patarkatsishvili announced that he would withdraw his bid for presidency, but would nominally remain a candidate until January 4, 2008. On January 3, 2008, he reversed himself, however, and decided to run in presidential elections. In response, his top campaign official Giorgi Zhvania (brother of Prime Minister Zurab Zhvania) resigned, declaring that Patarkasishvili did not have the unquestionable reputation one would expect of a country's president.\n\nPatarkatsishvali was chairman of the Dinamo Tbilisi soccer club.\nHe also served as president of the Georgian National Olympic Committee (GNOC), until being impeached on October 9, 2007, after falling out with the government.\n\nIn September 2006, Badri announced that he was considering a bid for the London football club West Ham. However, the deal never came to fruition.\n\nPatarkatsishvili was married to Inna Gudavadze. The couple have two children, Lianna Zhmotova and Iya Patarkatsishvili.\n\nPatarkatsishvili, aged 52, collapsed at Downside Manor, his mansion in Leatherhead, Surrey, England on February 12, 2008, at 10.45 pm. Ambulance crew members tried unsuccessfully to resuscitate him, but he was pronounced dead at 10.52 pm. As in any other case of unexpected death, Surrey police treated the case as \"suspicious\" and launched an official investigation.\n\nThe businessman spent his last day in the City of London office of international law firm Debevoise and Plimpton, meeting his business partner Boris Berezovsky, his spokesperson Tim Bell and his lawyer Lord Goldsmith QC, as well as fellow exiles, the Russians Nikolai Glushkov and Yuli Dubov From the City he left for Down Street, Mayfair, to visit Berezovsky's office, and at 7.00 pm was returned to Leatherhead with his Maybach. Shortly after dining, Patarkatsishvili told his family he felt unwell and went upstairs to his bedroom where he was found unconscious after a heart attack.\n\nPreliminary reports indicated a heart attack as the cause of death. According to the first post-mortem tests, the death of Patarkatsishvili appeared to have been from natural cardiac-related causes. According to the pathologist Ashley Fegan-Earl, he could identify a \"severity that could have resulted in a sudden and unexplained collapse and death at any time.\" He also concluded that chest pain that Patarkatsishvili had had and a sudden collapse \"were consistent with death due to coronary heart diseases.\" Patarkatsishvili's father, Shalva Patarkatsishvili, also died of a heart attack at an early age of 48. The businessman had no history of illness but was reported to have led an unhealthy lifestyle, smoking excessively and taking no exercise.\n\nAccording to Tim Bell, \"he [Badri] always looked 10 years older than he was.\" However, theories of a possible assassination were considered seriously by some. \"[A] number of compounds known to be used by the former KGB can induce heart failure, but leave virtually no trace. One is sodium fluoroacetate, a fine white powder derived from pesticide.\" The British police checked Patarkatishvili's Surrey mansion for radioactive elements but reportedly found nothing suspicious.\n\n\"London Lite\" was the first newspaper to inform the British public of the Georgian oligarch's death on the evening of 13 February 2008. In the news of 14 February 2008, Patarkatsishvili's death was covered in \"The Guardian\", \"The Times\", \"Financial Times\", \"The Daily Telegraph\", \"The Independent\", etc. Most newspapers discussed Patarkatsishvili's business history, including his close ties with Boris Berezovsky, Roman Abramovich, Alexander Litvinenko, Mikheil Saakashvili and Vladimir Putin.\n\nReuters reported that Patarkatsishvili feared the Georgian authorities were plotting to kill him, a source close to the late businessman said on the day of death.\"\n\nAssociated Press reported that on December 26, 2007, Patarkatsishvili said that he had obtained a tape recording of an official in his homeland's Interior Ministry asking a Chechen warlord to murder the tycoon in London. \"I believe they want to kill me,\" he said. He said the tape had been given to police.\n\n\"Novaya Gazeta\" reported the following information. Patarkatsishvili, living in London, was approached by members of the Saakashvili government demanding that he sell his controlling share in the dissident Imedi TV network. Initially, Patarkatsishvili refused, but was then offered an unprecedented deal: exchanging ownership of Imedi for ownership of the entire Georgian railroad system. Being a businessman, Patarkatsishvili reportedly agreed; however, when the Saakashvili side sent him the contract, there was a new clause, which required Badri to invest $2,000,000,000 in the \"improvement\" of the railroad property. He refused, but died shortly after. Novaya Gazeta's source is one of the lawyers from the legal side of this deal.\n\nFollowing Badri's death, several of his closest business associates made attempts to fraudulently claim his business assets from his family members, who were (Badri having died without leaving a valid will), under Georgian law, entitled to his residual estate.\n\nShortly after Badri died, Joseph Kay, the stepson of Patarkatsishvili's aunt and someone who had assisted Badri with his business affairs, along with the American lawyer, Emmanuel Zeltser, attempted to take control of Imedi, Mtatsminda Park and the Rustavi Metallurgical Plant in Georgia, as well as other assets belonging to Inna Gudavadze and the Patarkatsishvili family, including a large development on Fisher Island in Florida, by claiming to be in possession of Patarkatsishvili's last will and testament that appointed Kay as executor of the estate. These documents were later declared to be forgeries in the UK High Court. Kay's case was comprehensively dismissed by Mr Justice Dudley in the Supreme Court of Gibraltar in February 2010. Justice Dudley described Kay's case as \"wholly unconvincing\" adding that he was a \"mendacious individual\" and \"certainly not a witness of truth.\" After several further legal battles in the US, UK, and Georgia, the assets were returned to the Patarkatsishvili family.\n\nAnother claim over the estate was launched in 2012 by Boris Berezovsky. Berezovsky claimed that half of Badri's assets belong to him under a handshake agreement that the two men made in 1995 to split all their commercial interests equally. However, following the judgement of Gloster J in \"Berezovsky v Abramovich\" case in 2012 that gave a damming report of Berezovsky's character, Berezovsky quickly settled his case against the Patarkatsishvili family. The details of the settlement however remained confidential.\n\nIn 2013, Inna Gudavadze, her two daughters, Iya Patarkatsishvili and Liana Zhmotova, and Badri's mother Natela Patarkatsishvili brought a $1.8bn action against another of Badri's business associates, Vasily Anisimov. The family claimed that they had a part-entitlement to the 20% share formerly held by Anisimov in mining company Metalloinvest. The case was settled in March 2014 before it came to court.\n\n"}
{"id": "1884563", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884563", "title": "Finland during the Great Northern War", "text": "Finland during the Great Northern War\n\nFinland during the Great Northern War was dominated by the Russian invasion and subsequent military occupation of Finland, then part of Sweden, from 1714 until the treaty of Nystad 1721, which ended the Great Northern War. The period is also referred to as \"den stora ofreden\" (\"the great discord\") in Swedish or \"isoviha\" (\"the great hatred\") in Finnish. It was previously also called \"venäläisen ylivallan aika\" (\"era of Russian domination\" or \"era of Russian supremacy\") in Finnish.\n\nFinland was left largely to fend for itself after the disaster of Poltava in 1709. Russia captured Viborg ( (Vyborg), ) in 1710 and already in 1712 started their first campaign to capture Finland which ended in failure. A more organized campaign starting in 1713 managed to capture Helsinki/Helsingfors and drive defending Swedes away from the coast. The Swedish army in Finland was defeated in Storkyro (Isokyrö) in February 1714 where the Russians won a decisive victory. Swedish efforts to hinder the Russian advance by blockading the coastal sea route at Hangö ended in failure in late July in battle of Gangut. The presence of a Russian galley fleet in the Gulf of Bothnia forced, in the end, both the Swedish fleet and army to largely abandon Finland in late 1714. Even the Swedish areas on the western side of the Gulf of Bothnia were ravaged by the Russians. The city of Umeå was burned to the ground by the Russians on 18 September 1714, and after struggling to rebuild was razed again in 1719, 1720, and 1721.\n\nAfter the victory in Battle of Storkyro, Mikhail Golitsyn was appointed the governor of Finland. Finns began waging partisan warfare against the Russians. As retaliation, the Finnish peasants were forced to pay large contributions to the occupying Russians (as was the custom in that time). Plundering was widespread, especially in Ostrobothnia and in communities near the major roads. Churches were looted, Isokyrö was burned to the ground. A scorched earth zone several hundred kilometers wide was burned to hinder Swedish counteroffensives. At least 5,000 Finns were killed and some 10,000 taken away as slaves, of whom only a few thousand would ever return; According to newer research the amount of those killed is closer to 20,000. Thousands, especially officials, also fled to the (relative) safety of Sweden. The poorer peasants hid in the woods to avoid the ravages of the occupiers and their press-gangs. Atrocities were at their worst between 1714–17 when the Swedish Count Gustaf Otto Douglas, who had defected to the Russian side during the war, was in charge of the occupation.\n\nIn addition to the predations of the Russian occupants, Finland was struck – as were most other Baltic countries at the time – by the plague. In Helsinki, 1,185 people died: nearly two thirds of the population. Plague already had struck Finland before the Russian invasion, sapping the strength of Sweden in Finland.\n\nIt took several decades for the Finnish population and economy to recover after the peace in 1721, at which point Finland was scourged again during the war of 1741–43, although less devastatingly.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1884570", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884570", "title": "Instituto Tecnológico de Ciudad Madero", "text": "Instituto Tecnológico de Ciudad Madero\n\nInstituto Tecnológico de Ciudad Madero is a technological institute in Ciudad Madero, Tamaulipas, Mexico. Commonly abbreviated as ITCM. ITCM is part of the Mexican public education system (SEP) and offers several careers mainly related to the industrial needs of the region.\n\nThe first stone of the institution was placed on November 20, 1950. Its educational activities started in 1954 offering technical courses. Its first director was Mr. Luis Hidalgo y Castro.\n\nIn 1956 he started undergraduate programs in Chemical Engineering, Electrical and Mechanical.\n\nIts current director (since January 2011) is Mr. Arnulfo Hernandez Hector Enriquez.\n\nThe Constitution of a Board pro-construction of the School of Arts and Crafts was the first step that gave rise to what in the beginning was the Regional Technological Institute of Ciudad Madero.\n\nOn November 20, 1950, the then Director of PEMEX, Mr. Antonio J. Bermudez, representing the President of the Republic, Mr. Miguel German Valdes, laid the cornerstone of the institute. Shortly after the September 2, 1954 courses began at 7:00 am with a total of 511 students serving Chief Engineer Luis Hidalgo y Castro.\n\nThe educational programs offered to initiate functions were:\n\nTechnical Preparation\n\n\nRAMA subprofessional\n\n\nVocational School\n\n\nIn September 1956 undergraduate careers started with the specialties of Chemical Engineering, Mechanical Engineering and Electrical Engineering. In 1957 it joined the Technical High School. A year later in 1958, offering the specialty of Internal Combustion Technician and by 1961 began in Industrial Engineering.\n\nThe Electronics Technician specialty started in 1968, while the worker started in 1972. In 1974 joined their curricula Open Education System at two levels. The educational offer was extended in 1975 with new subjects, Engineering, Geological Engineering and Geophysics.\n\nAccelerated regional development motivated by the year 1976, the Graduate Programs begin with the Master in Management Systems and a Masters in Petroleum and Petrochemical Technology.\n\n1986 was important in the growth of the institution for bachelor level degrees in Electronic Engineering and Computer Systems Engineering Graduate level and start the Master of Science in Electrical Engineering, a Masters in Mathematics Education (through an agreement with CINVESTAV) also is offered for the first time beginning with Petrochemical Ph.D., whose program was born from the continued growth of this industry in the area. Also in these specialties are signed cooperation agreements with the Mexican Petroleum Institute (IMP) and the International Cooperation Agency of Japan (JICA).\n\nIn 1993 he began the career of Engineering Geoscience, settling of Engineering Geology and Geophysics. That same year, 1993, offer the Master of Science in Engineering Management. In 1995 the Bachelor in Computer Science started. In 1996 the Master of Science in Chemical Engineering began as a response to changing national trends with respect to oil development. This change also resulted from the recommendations of the Evaluation Committee of the National Register of Graduate CONACYT. That same year, the PhD in Chemical Engineering Petrochemical replacing.\n\nIn August 2000 began the Master of Science in Computer Science and six years later was registered in the National Register of CONACYT Graduate with a Master of Science in Chemical Engineering which places them among the best graduate programs in these disciplines.\n\nIn 2001 starts the Masters in Administrative Management (replacing the Master of Science in Engineering Management). By 2006 the program starts the race of Environmental Engineering and in 2008 another Graduate with a Masters in Electrical Engineering to replace the Master of Science in Electrical Engineering. And as a result of an investigation of educational provision in our suburbs, authorized the deployment of the most recent race at the institution in August 2010 that starts the Engineering Program in Business Management\n\nAll this historical record has forged a solid institution, prestige, based on the needs of organizations and the result is that the Technological Institute of Ciudad Madero and is considered one of the leading research centers in the country.\n\nIt offers degrees in:\nAt the undergraduate level it serves an average of 8000 students.\n\nAt graduate level offers three master's programs and two PhD programs:\nThe latter two programs are enrolled in the National Graduate Padron CONACYT SEP. It also offers a Master of Administrative Management profession-type and a Doctorate of Science in Chemical Engineering. The average population is 293 graduate students.\n\n"}
{"id": "1884571", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884571", "title": "Risdon Vale, Tasmania", "text": "Risdon Vale, Tasmania\n\nRisdon Vale is an outer suburb of Hobart, capital of Tasmania, Australia on the eastern shore of the River Derwent, and adjacent to Risdon Cove, which was the site of the British colonisation of Van Diemen's Land.\n\nRisdon Vale Post Office opened on 1 November 1960.\n\nIt is the location of Tasmania's only maximum security prison, Risdon Prison and Risdon Women's Prison. Risdon Vale also is close to Risdon Brook Park and Dam which offers a pleasant walking track round the dam of 4 km, taking in views of Mount Wellington and its surrounds.\n\nRisdon Vale has a small population of around 3,000. Much of the\narea is surrounded by scrub and bush, which becomes particularly dry in the summer season and poses as a high fire risk. There has been a history of bushfires in the area. The Risdon Vale Volunteer Fire Brigade was established in September 1981 and the fire station, on Sugarloaf Road,\nwas opened on 14 May 1982.\n\nThe East Derwent Highway, connects Risdon Vale with Hobart CBD; The Bowen Bridge to Glenorchy; Grasstree Hill Road connects Risdon Vale to the historical town of Richmond in the north.\n\nRisdon Vale Primary School] was founded around 1960, along with most of the residential housing in the area.\n\nMetro Tasmania buses run from Risdon Vale to central terminals in Hobart or Rosny Park as well as in Glenorchy and can also travel to Bridgewater.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1884577", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884577", "title": "List of states and union territories of India by area", "text": "List of states and union territories of India by area\n\nThe list of states and union territories of the Republic of India by area is ordered from largest to smallest according to the census of 2011. India consists of 28 states and 8 union territories, including the National Capital Territory of Delhi.\n\n\"Source:Area of states\"\n\n\"In August 2019, the Indian Parliament passed a resolution to divide the state of Jammu and Kashmir into two Union Territories, Jammu & Kashmir (J&K) and Ladakh, which came into action on 31 October 2019.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1884579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884579", "title": "The Best of Ricky Martin", "text": "The Best of Ricky Martin\n\nThe Best of Ricky Martin is the second compilation album by the Puerto Rican singer Ricky Martin released by Columbia Records on November 12, 2001.\n\n\"The Best of Ricky Martin\" did not include any new material. The remixes of \"Amor\" were sent to radio stations in selected countries, to promote the album. \"The Best of Ricky Martin\" was not released in the United States.\n\nThe album peaked at number seven in Denmark, number twelve in the Netherlands and Italy, number seventeen in Finland, and number twenty-five in Australia. In the United Kingdom it reached number forty-two.\n\n\"The Best of Ricky Martin\" was certified Platinum in Australia, and Gold in the United Kingdom and Finland. In the UK, the album has sold 177,064 copies.\n"}
{"id": "1884580", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884580", "title": "Stick Figure Neighbourhood", "text": "Stick Figure Neighbourhood\n\nStick Figure Neighbourhood was the first album by the Burlington band Spoons. Released in 1981, it received some airplay on went to the top of the Canadian University radio charts (specifically with songs \"Conventional Beliefs\" and \"Red Light\"), but it was their next album, \"Arias & Symphonies –\" and its best known single, \"Nova Heart\" – that were to launch them to fame. \n\nThis album was recorded by Daniel Lanois at the Grant Avenue Studios in Hamilton, Ontario. Its liner notes collectively thank fellow contemporary Toronto bands The Diodes, Martha and the Muffins, and concert promoter Gary Cormier of \"The Garys\".\n\nAs Gordon Deppe mentions in his liner notes for \"Collectible Spoons\", this collection of songs \"is a bit rough around the edges, but there are things on it that [are] still very interesting and perplexing.\"\n\n\"Stick Figure Neighbourhood\" was partly inspired by the band's interest in progressive rock, where an emphasis is placed on creating atmospheres as opposed to rhythms. Another inspiration was the show \"The Prisoner\", where songs such as \"Dropped Dishes\" and \"Capitol Hill\" reflect situations the show's protagonist No.6 would go through.\n\n\"After the Institution\" (b/w \"My Job\") from 1980 was an early song from the group that was left off the album due to the feeling that it was \"too new wave\". Regardless of the decision, the album still manages to be full of synthesizers, \"raunchy\" guitars, and pounding drums, all while being held together by Horne's bass.\n\nThe track \"Ice Age\" was originally called \"Elephant's Graveyard\" but was changed due to the Boomtown Rats' song of the same name. Deppe states that the imagery of \"glaciers moving along\" are present in both songs. He goes on to explain that – after reading the story on the back cover of \"Genesis Live –\" he got the inspiration for \"Stick Figure Neighbourhood\". The image on the album cover reflects this idea, along with the notion of a typical suburb.\n\nDespite the album's lack of singles and placement on any mainstream chart, \"Stick Figure Neighbourhood\" was well-received by the media. Journalists wrote how the album was \"one of the most imaginative debut discs to appear in a long time\" and that the band had achieved \"an exhilarating blend of textural...melodies, brittle bass lines, rhythmic guitar riffs, and consistent percussion\". Many already began to believe that this album was the beginning of the band's bright career.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1884585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884585", "title": "Super Punch-Out!!", "text": "Super Punch-Out!!\n\nIn \"Super Punch-Out!!\" the player controls Little Mac, as he fights his way to become the World Video Boxing Association champion. Players, fighting from a \"behind the back\" perspective, must knockout their opponent in three minutes to win. Players can launch jabs, hooks, and uppercuts against their opponents as well as block, dodge, and duck opponents' attacks. Nintendo Integrated Research and Development, led by Genyo Takeda, Minoru Arakawa and Makoto Wada, developed the game. It also featured voice acting by Charles Martinet.\n\nThe game received praise from reviewers for its cartoon-like style, its colorful, outlandish opponents, simple gameplay controls, and replay value. The game also featured colorful, detailed graphics, which included the usage of transparency that facilitates the game's \"behind the back\" perspective. Other reviewers had said that this game lacked the overall appeal, gameplay, or audience of its predecessor.\n\nThe gameplay in \"Super Punch-Out!!\" is similar to that of its arcade and NES/FC predecessors. The player controls a nameable boxer as he fights his way to become W.V.B.A. Champion. The player controls the boxer from a third-person perspective, with him being translucent on the screen. Players can attack their opponents with jabs to the face or with body blows from either hand. The opponent can deflect punches, so players must aim at the opponent's open spot (where the gloves are not) to connect. Depending on the opponents' stances, they will guard themselves differently, so players need to use the correct punches.\n\nAs in the first two arcade games of the series, players have a power meter, located on the bottom of the screen. The meter fills up as the player lands punches against the opponent, and it goes down as the player gets hit. When the power meter fills up completely, the player will be able to launch knockout punches such as uppercuts, hooks, and rapid punches. These punches have a slight delay in execution, but they cause more damage to the opponent. Players can also build power as the match progresses, as indicated by the background color behind the player's face on the upper left corner of the screen, which goes from blue to green to yellow to red. The player reaches \"Power-Up\" status when the background color reaches red. During this status, the player's punch speed and power increase. They lose their Power-Up status if they are knocked down.\nPlayers can avoid attacks from their opponents by dodging to the left or right or by ducking, but players cannot punch while dodging or ducking, nor can they duck body blows. They can also block attacks to either the head or the body, but they cannot block strong punches; strong punches must be avoided by dodging or ducking. Depending on the situation, the player must strategically block, dodge, rope, or duck in order to avoid an opponent's attack. Players can capitalize on the opponent's attacks by launching counter-punches immediately after avoiding an attack.\n\nBoth the player and the opponent have stamina meters, both displayed on the top of the screen. The meters decrease when either boxer gets hit by a punch. Boxers will get knocked down if their stamina meter runs out. Faster knockdowns will cause that boxer to recover less stamina upon getting up; the same happens if a boxer is knocked down by a knockout punch. Either boxer will lose if they cannot stand up before the count of ten after being knocked down (resulting in a knockout or KO) or if they are knocked down three times in the match (resulting in a technical knockout or TKO). The player can also recover some stamina while the opponent is down by pressing the buttons on the controller.\n\nA meter not displayed on screen is what many skilled players refer to as a \"dizzy threshold\". This means that if a player manages to land a given number of consecutive punches, it will put the opponent into a brief \"dizzy\" or \"stunned\" animation. A \"dizzied\" or \"stunned\" opponent will appear shaken for a short period of time (in which the match timer freezes temporarily), and the player has a small margin of opportunity to achieve an instant knockdown with a well-timed knockout punch. Each of the 16 opponents varies in how much match time it takes to become \"dizzied\", some more quickly than others. There are two opponents who can be knocked out upon the first knockdown, however, a knockdown during a \"dizzy\" animation is critical in making this possible. There are eight opponents who can be knocked out in two knockdowns, however, the player must achieve the second knockdown within four seconds of the first knockdown. Finally, there are six opponents who the player must defeat via a TKO as the aforementioned four seconds between the first two knockdowns does not apply.\n\nThe player has three minutes to knock out the opponent. After three minutes, the match ends, and the player loses; the player cannot win by a decision. After losing, the player can use a continue and fight a rematch. The game ends after all continues have been used; the player must fight all opponents in the current circuit again. The game consists of four circuits in which the player must become the champion. The player can retry any circuit that has already been beaten. The game has a battery–backed memory in which players can save their data and records for future play.\n\n\"Super Punch-Out!!\" was released in North America October 1994 and in Europe on . It was rereleased in North America in 1996, and it was released in Japan as part of the Nintendo Power flash RAM cartridge series on March 1, 1998. In addition, Electronic Arts included the game as an unlockable bonus item along with its protagonist as an unlockable boxer in the Nintendo GameCube version of \"Fight Night Round 2\" as part of Nintendo's deal of featuring Nintendo characters in the Nintendo GameCube versions of some EA Sports titles. The game was later released for the Wii's Virtual Console service in Europe and Australia on , in North America on and in Japan on . \"Super Punch-Out!!\" is the fourth game in the \"Punch-Out!!\" series and was developed by Nintendo Integrated Research and Development and was produced by Minoru Arakawa, Genyo Takeda and Makoto Wada. Voice actor Charles Martinet was credited for providing the voices of the boxers, the referee and the announcer. Nintendo IRD was developing this game simultaneously with \"\". The game is the closest arcade-to-home console translation of the \"Punch-Out!!\" and \"Super Punch-Out!!\" arcades; however, like the NES titles, the SNES title is not a direct port. Shortly before the game was finished and released, some screenshots and video footage of the prototype were shown in a video preview of the game, as well as in an issue of \"Nintendo Power\" magazine and two official television commercials, which all showed the protagonist of the game with a different look as well as the announcer having a different voice compared to the ones in the final version seen in the finished and released version.\n\n\"Super Punch-Out!!\" received a rave review in \"GamePro\". The reviewer praised the game's good controls, \"deceptive challenge\", sprite layouts, animations, and sounds which \"juice the game's intensity level\". He stated the game's one flaw was \"the lack of an easy-to-use two-player mode.\" The magazine ran alternate reviews by Fred Doughty and Mark Guinane, winners of the 1994 Blockbuster Video World Game Championship. They also gave the game positive assessments, praising the easy-to-learn controls, high challenge level, and artistic design of the characters. \"Electronic Gaming Monthly\"'s two sports game reviewers criticized the game's unrealistic style, but nonetheless acknowledged that \"it still has fantastic game play.\" \"Next Generation\" reviewed the game, and stated that most everything in the game was \"done to perfection\", making the game \"a great tribute to the original classic.\"\n\nSeveral reviewers praised \"Super Punch-Out!!\" overall for not trying to be realistic, for the originality of its different opponents, and for its simple controls. Chris Scullion from \"Official Nintendo Magazine\" praises the game for its outlandish characters, addictive gameplay, and simple controls. He adds that \"Super Punch-Out!!\" is \"superb way to prepare for the upcoming Wii [\"Punch-Out!!\"] title\". Scullion states that \"the thing that makes \"Super Punch-Out!!\" interesting (along with the rest of the games in the series) is that it's not a realistic boxing game\". He adds that the opponents in the game are \"the real stars of the show\", with each opponent having a unique personality, traits, and boxing styles. Skyler Miller from Allgame, like Scullion, praised the game for its simple, responsive controls, for its colorful, detailed opponents, and for its usage of the Super NES's transparent color palette for the fighter, which facilitates the \"behind the back\" perspective. He also appreciates the game's sound and music, in particular the usage of real voice for the announcer. \"Game Players\" magazine applauded the game's \"large, colorful graphics and easy-to-learn controls\".\n\nReviewers have praised \"Super Punch-Out!!\" for its other unique features and for its rewarding difficulty. \"Game Informer\" magazine praised the game for its time attack mode, which recorded and kept track of the fastest knockouts for each opponent. Miller also commended the time attack mode, adding to the game's replay value. Another review from \"VideoGames & Computer Entertainment\" magazine lauded the game for a fair difficulty curve, stating that it \"is a really tough game, but it's one in which repeated playing (and you will be playing it a lot) really pays off\". Lucas Thomas from IGN, while praising the game overall, says that the game lacks the overall appeal that the NES version had and that he recommends the NES version over this version. He notes that the sound is \"Not as memorable as the music from the NES game, but [is] more varied\". He says that many people who are familiar with the NES version have to relearn new attack patterns from different opponents. Thomas also notes that the game did not have as large an audience as the NES version enjoyed.\n\nIn 1997 \"Electronic Gaming Monthly\" ranked it the 56th best console video game of all time. They explained their decision to include it on the list instead of \"Punch-Out!!\": \"The NES version is great, but the Super NES one is even better, with large, well-animated characters, great control and a near-perfect learning curve.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1884591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884591", "title": "Little Italy, San Diego", "text": "Little Italy, San Diego\n\nLittle Italy is a neighborhood in Downtown San Diego, California that was originally a predominately Italian and Portuguese fishing neighborhood. It has since been gentrified and is now a popular neighborhood full of Italian restaurants and grocery stores, home design stores, art galleries and residential units.\n\nLittle Italy is one of the more active downtown neighborhoods, with frequent festivals and events including a weekly farmers market, also known as the \"Mercato\" (the Market, in Italian). The neighborhood has low crime rates when compared with other neighborhoods in Downtown San Diego and is maintained by the Little Italy Neighborhood Association, which looks after trash collection, decorations, and special events.\n\nLittle Italy is located in the northwest end of Downtown, a few blocks from the Embarcadero. It is located north of Columbia, south of Middletown, southeast of Core, southwest of Bankers Hill/Park West and west of Cortez Hill. The neighborhood is located on the side of a hill, with a significant rise in elevation as one approaches Interstate 5.\n\nThe district is bordered by West Laurel Street to the north, West Ash Street to the south, Interstate 5 and Front Street to the east and the San Diego Bay and Pacific Highway to the west.\n\nIndia Street, the commercial corridor, runs through the heart of Little Italy, intermingled with high-density mixed-use buildings and single-family bungalow-style historic properties in a highly walkable 48-square-block area.\n\nFrom the 19th century through the 1970s, Italian-Americans, chiefly from the Italian Riviera and Sicily, led the enterprise in the building of the boats that founded the American tuna fishing fleet and canning industry based in San Diego, the \"tuna capital\" of the American West Coast. The first large tuna cannery, the Pacific Tuna Canning Company, was founded in 1911. By the mid-1930s the canneries employed more than 1,000 people. Due to rising costs and foreign competition the last of the canneries closed in the early 1980s. A large fishing fleet supported the canneries, mostly staffed by immigrant fishermen from the Portuguese Azores and Italy, whose influence is still felt in neighborhoods like Little Italy and Point Loma.\n\nFollowing the 1906 San Francisco earthquake and fire, many Italian fishermen moved to San Diego. The construction of Interstate 5 in the 1970s split the neighborhood, with the area east of the Interstate becoming part of Bankers Hill. There is a sculpture dedicated to the cannery workers in Barrio Logan and a \"Tunaman's Memorial\" statue on Shelter Island.\n\nThere are multiple public improvements and high-rise and mid-rise buildings under construction or approved and scheduled for construction. The northern part of Little Italy is less densely populated than the southern part of Little Italy, which is mainly made up of high-rise and mid-rise buildings. Some older buildings have been renovated for new uses; newer buildings aim to duplicate the feel of the original establishments. The main street, India Street, features public art and plazas, street trees, galleries and antique stores, and numerous restaurants with outside eating areas.\n\nLittle Italy has a Business Improvement District and a Community Benefit District that is maintained by the Little Italy Association (LIA), a public benefit 501(c)3 corporation established in 1996 to oversee and expedite the revitalization and beautification of Little Italy. The Association represents the residents, property owners, and businesses of Little Italy.\n\nThe Italian Cultural Center of San Diego, a 600-member non-profit organization founded in 1981 for people interested in Italian culture and language, is located in this neighborhood. \n\nThe Italian Cultural Center of San Diego primary goal is to promote the diffusion of Italian culture in all its varied forms. In order to achieve this goal, the organization has always emphasized the importance of teaching the Italian language as a way to guarantee access to a wider cultural context. The Italian Cultural Center of San Diego offers a variety of cultural events, workshops, lectures and classes at all levels, year round. Classes are taught by native speakers who have been part of the Italian language-teaching scene for several years. \n\nThe Convivio Center & Little Italy Heritage Museum is Little Italy's newest destination for arts, culture, heritage and all things Italian in San Diego. The Center serves as a community resource and provides programs and events and something for everyone.\n\nThe majority of events held are related to Italian culture. Most of the events center on and around India street, usually bordered by Grape street to north and Beech Street or Ash Street to the south.\n\nEvery Saturday, 8:00am – 2:00pm, on W. Cedar Street and every Wednesday, 9:00am – 1:00pm, on W. Date Street; Little Italy hosts the Little Italy Mercato. This Italian farmers' market features freshly caught fish, vegetables and fruit from local farmers, pastries from local bakeries, flowers and plants from local farms, and art from local artists.\n\nThe Saturday before Mardi Gras, there is the Little Italy Carnevale, a Venetian mask event with several vignettes of entertainment and an open house for retail shops and restaurants.\n\nIn April, there is ArtWalk, the largest art event in the west coast with over 120,000 people coming to purchase various mediums of art - paintings, photography, jewelry, furniture and more. Also in April, there is Gran Fondo (Big Ride) Colnago San Diego, where over 3,000 bicycle riders from all over the world come to ride throughout \"America's Finest City\" in a 32, 53 or 100 mile ride that starts under the Little Italy landmark sign.\n\nIn May, the Sicilian American community of San Diego celebrates the Sicilian Festival, the first Italian festival held in Little Italy, launched in 1993. It features Italian and Sicilian entertainment, a cultural pavilion highlighting the contributions of the Italians of San Diego, vendors, and Sicilian cuisine.\n\nIn May and again in November, there is the Taste of Little Italy (Spring), where attendees pay to sample food from over 20 participating restaurants and entertainment throughout the community. Proceeds from this event go to the Little Italy Association.\n\nIn September, there is the Labor Day Stickball Tournament, where several stickball leagues come to play on the streets of Little Italy. This time honored east coast game is played like baseball, but with some minor tweaks. Every third year the San Diego leagues host a West Coast Invitational where they invite New York and Puerto Rico to play on the streets of San Diego's Little Italy.\n\nIn October, there is the Little Italy Festa, the largest Italian festival outside of New York City, with over 150 Italian food and crafter booths, three stages of entertainment, the Gesso Italiano Street Painting Festival, a stickball exhibition game, bocce ball tournament and beer & wine gardens. Also in October, there is the Bulls of St. Agata Charge Little Italy; this event showcases over 50 Lamborghinis from all over the United States.\n\nIn December, there is the Little Italy Christmas Village and Tree Lighting. This event has progressively gotten larger and larger, with Santa Claus riding in on Little Italy Fire Engine #3 kicking off the festivities of music, shopping and bubbly snow flakes for the kids. The neighborhood also showcases a life-sized gingerbread house all month long at Queenstown Public House (New Zealand inspired restaurant), which collects toy donations for local charities around the area each year\n\n\nAnnual events\n"}
{"id": "1884597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884597", "title": "Shimizu Muneharu", "text": "Shimizu Muneharu\n\n, also known as , was a military commander during the Sengoku period. He served the Mōri clan (one of the powerful clans in Bitchu Province) as a retainer to Kobayakawa Takakage and took part in the expedition to unify the Chūgoku region. He was lord of Shimizu castle at Bitchu Province, and became the lord of the Bitchu Takamatsu Castle after he captured it in 1565. His father was Shimizu Munenori.\n\nHashiba Hideyohi (later Toyotomi Hideyoshi), a retainer of Oda Nobunaga, went on an expedition to the Chūgoku region to reunify Japan in 1582. Muneharu resisted Hideyoshi, locking himself in Bitchu Takamatsu Castle. Hideyoshi advised Muneharu to surrender on the condition that Muneharu give him Bitchu Province, but Muneharu refused. Takamatsu Castle was flooded by Hideyoshi and nearly fell (this strategy was worked out by Kuroda Yoshitaka, who was on the staff of Hideyoshi).\n\nIn June, during the flooding, Nobunaga died in the Incident at Honnōji in Kyoto. Having heard about Nobunaga's death, Hideyoshi made peace overtures on the condition that Muneharu commit seppuku (suicide).\n\nShimizu's grave is at Seikyō-ji, Hikari, Yamaguchi Prefecture.\n"}
{"id": "1884603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884603", "title": "University of Annaba", "text": "University of Annaba\n\nThe Badji Mokhtar University (), also called Annaba University or UBMA, is located in Annaba, on the north eastern coast of Algeria.\n\nIt is founded in 1975 and is organized into 7 faculties. The university is named after , an Algerian freedom fighter who died during the Algerian War on 19 November 1954.\n\nThe university has 45000 students, 2210 lecturers, and 1900 administrative and support staff. UBMA offers courses at undergraduate and postgraduate level. Every year over 8,000 national and international graduate and postgraduate students choose the university for study. UBMA is involved in bilateral exchange agreements.\n\nFaculties are:\n\nThe university campus is located over four districts in Annaba:\n\nAccording to Algerian law dormitories are free, there are around 13 which are co-administered between the university and the National Office of Universities. They are near the four campuses in Annaba. All the students who study there (except those who live in Annaba), have the priority to have accommodation, with priority to foreign students.\n\nAnnaba University is a member of international networks, associations and agencies such as:\n\nUBMA has international partnerships for research and exchange programmes with:\n\nThere is no official Student Organization representing the University of Annaba (the most notable unofficial Alumni Group is Annaba University Alumni.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1884605", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884605", "title": "List of HIV-positive television characters", "text": "List of HIV-positive television characters\n\nHIV-positive characters from television shows or made-for-television movie martin.\n"}
{"id": "1884609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884609", "title": "AT&amp;T Byron Nelson", "text": "AT&amp;T Byron Nelson\n\nThe AT&T Byron Nelson is a golf tournament in Texas on the PGA Tour. The tournament is held in May, and in 2018 moved to the new Trinity Forest Golf Club in Dallas. It is one of two PGA Tour stops in the Dallas-Fort Worth Metroplex – the only metropolitan area to host two events. The tournament is the leading fundraiser for charity on the PGA Tour and has raised more than $143 million. For much of its history, it was the only PGA Tour stop named after a professional golfer; it remains one of only two such events, along with the Arnold Palmer Invitational. As host, Byron Nelson commonly made appearances during the tournament. It is hosted by the Salesmanship Club of Dallas, a 600-member civic organization, and has benefited the Club's nonprofit Momentous Institute since its inception.\n\nFor its first several decades, the tournament was played at various courses in Dallas. Nelson, a Texas native raised in Fort Worth, was the tournament's first winner in 1944, when it was played at Lakewood Country Club. The following year it was played at Dallas Country Club, and then in 1946 moved to Brook Hollow Golf Club. For the better part of the next decade the event was not contested, until two iterations of it were held in 1956, both at Preston Hollow Country Club. In 1957, the event moved to Glen Lake Country Club before it began a decade-long relationship with Oak Cliff Country Club, from 1958–1967.\n\nIn 1968, , the event was renamed the Byron Nelson Golf Classic and its title, through a series of sponsors, has continuously included Nelson's name. That same year the event moved to Preston Trail Golf Club, where it was played through 1982, then moved to venues in Irving: Las Colinas Sports Club (1983–1985) and TPC at Las Colinas (1986–1993).\n\nBeginning in 1994, the tournament was played at two courses, the Tournament Players Course and the Cottonwood Valley Course, both located at the Four Seasons. Previously only the TPC was used, but since the tournament was played in May (during the height of the North Texas storm season), the weather played havoc with the tournament in some years, causing several delays and shortened tournaments. Therefore, the decision was made to add the Cottonwood Valley course in order to shorten the amount of time needed to complete the first two rounds. The first two rounds were played on both courses (each player played one round on each course); after the cut was determined, the TPC is used exclusively for the final two rounds. However, in 2008 the tournament reverted to using only the TPC course, which was significantly renovated.\n\nHewlett-Packard (HP) bought the previous title sponsor, Electronic Data Systems (EDS) in mid-2008. The agreement ran through 2014, with AT&T becoming the title sponsor in 2015.\n\nIn 2018, the tournament moved to the new Trinity Forest Golf Club, southeast of downtown Dallas.\n\nAT&T Byron Nelson in 2018\n\n\"** Par for final three rounds lowered to 69 due to course flooding; 14th hole was converted to a par 3\"<br>\n\"* Indicates weather-shortened to 54 holes\"<br>\n\"^ Indicates weather-shortened to 36 holes\"<br>\n\"Note: Green highlight indicates scoring records.\"<br>\nMain sources\n\nFive men have won this tournament more than once through 2017.\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "1884613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884613", "title": "Filiano", "text": "Filiano\n\nFiliano (Lucano: ) is a town and \"comune\" in the province of Potenza, in the Southern Italian region of Basilicata. It is bounded by the comuni (Municipalities,) of Atella, Avigliano, Forenza, Ripacandida, San Fele.\n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "1884615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884615", "title": "Flying in a Blue Dream", "text": "Flying in a Blue Dream\n\nFlying in a Blue Dream is the third studio album by guitarist Joe Satriani, released on October 30, 1989 through Relativity Records. It is one of Satriani's most popular albums and his second highest-charting release to date, reaching No. 23 on the U.S. \"Billboard\" 200 and remaining on that chart for 39 weeks, as well as reaching the top 40 in three other countries.\n\nFour singles reached \"Billboard\"'s Mainstream Rock chart: \"I Believe\" and \"Back to Shalla-Bal\" both at No. 17, \"Big Bad Moon\" at No. 31, and \"One Big Rush\" at No. 36. \"Flying in a Blue Dream\" was certified Gold on January 25, 1990 and received a nomination for Best Rock Instrumental Performance at the 1991 Grammy Awards; this being Satriani's third such nomination.\n\nIn a 2014 interview with MusicRadar, Satriani described the writing and recording process for \"Flying in a Blue Dream\" as \"A very stressful time\" and that \"It was just so difficult and insane, but there was also this enormous amount of creativity. I was so excited that I had fans! [Laughs].\" Comprising a varied and eclectic range of styles, the album contains more tracks (18) than any of his other albums; \"Time Machine\" (1993) has 28 tracks as a double album.\n\nThe title track has endured as one of Satriani's best-known songs and is a mainstay at his concerts, as well as \"The Mystical Potato Head Groove Thing\". \"Can't Slow Down\", \"Strange\", \"I Believe\", \"Big Bad Moon\", \"The Phone Call\" and \"Ride\" feature him singing for the first time; the most on any of his albums to date. It also marks the first time he plays the Deering six-string banjo-style guitar—\"The Feeling\" is performed entirely using that instrument—and harmonica, the latter of which features prominently on \"Headless\", \"Big Bad Moon\" and \"Ride\".\n\n\"Headless\" is a remake of \"The Headless Horseman\" from \"Not of This Earth\" (1986), but with added distorted vocals and harmonica along with a 'squawky' guitar tone making chicken-like sounds. \"Day at the Beach (New Rays from an Ancient Sun)\" and \"The Forgotten (Part One)\" are performed using a two-handed tapping technique.\n\n\"The Bells of Lal (Part One)\" was featured in the 1996 film \"Sling Blade\", during the scene where Karl Childers (Billy Bob Thornton) is sharpening a lawnmower blade to kill the menacing Doyle Hargraves (Dwight Yoakam).\n\nMusic videos for the ballad \"I Believe\" and hard rocker \"Big Bad Moon\" were included on \"The Satch Tapes\", which was first released on VHS cassette in 1993 and reissued on DVD on November 18, 2003; it also includes excerpts from an MTV performance of \"The Feeling\". \"One Big Rush\" was featured in the 1989 film \"Say Anything...\"\n\n\"Back to Shalla-Bal\" refers to Shalla-Bal from the Marvel Comics universe; it is the second reference Satriani has made to the Silver Surfer character, who was first featured on the cover art of \"Surfing with the Alien\" (1987). The track was later used as the menu music to the 1996 Sony PlayStation video game \"Formula 1\", which also featured \"Summer Song\" from \"The Extremist\" (1992).\n\n\"Flying in a Blue Dream\" has been reissued several times. The first was on May 27, 1997 through Epic Records and again on June 16, 2008 as part of the \"Original Album Classics\" box set. The most recent reissue was part of \"\", released on April 22, 2014 through Legacy Recordings; this is a box set compilation containing remastered editions of every Satriani studio album from 1986 to 2013.\n\nPhil Carter at AllMusic gave \"Flying in a Blue Dream\" 4.5 stars out of five, calling it \"An hour-long disc filled with musical explorations and compositions that defy belief\" and \"unquestionably Joe Satriani at his absolute best.\" Satriani's first attempts at singing were highlighted and described as \"[not] extraordinary, but it fits extremely well with the music he creates\". Carter concluded by saying that the album is \"Soaring, powerful, and triumphant\" and \"deserves a place in everyone's collection.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1884617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884617", "title": "George Glamack", "text": "George Glamack\n\nGeorge Gregory Glamack (June 7, 1919 – March 10, 1987) was an American professional basketball player.\n\nBorn in Johnstown, Pennsylvania, he was of Serbian origin.\n\nA 6'6\" forward-center, Glamack attended the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. Glamack, an All-American in 1940 and 1941, was nicknamed the Blind Bomber because he had very poor eyesight and had to rely on the lines drawn on the court when shooting. The Spaulding Guide noted that \"Glamack, who is ambididextrous when on the court, is also so nearsighted that the ball is merely a dim object, but apparently he never looked where he was shooting, depending upon his sense of distance and direction.\" The secret of \"The Blind Bomber\" was looking at the black lines on the court. By doing that he knew where he was in reference to the basket and measure the shot.\n\nHe scored 45 points against Clemson in 1941, still the fourth-highest total in UNC history. That year, he led UNC to a Southern Conference championship and the NCAA tournament. In both 1940 and 1941 he won the Helms Foundation Player of the Year which was the only MVP award of that time. He is one of eight players to have his jersey number retired by UNC, the others being Jack Cobb, Lennie Rosenbluth, Phil Ford, James Worthy, Michael Jordan, Antawn Jamison, and Tyler Hansbrough.\n\nGlamack entered pro basketball in 1941. In 1945 he joined the Rochester Royals of the National Basketball League. Glamack scored a team high 12.3 points per game and the team finished with a record of 24-10. They would go on to win the 1946 championship, defeating the Sheboygan Red Skins 3-0. The next year Glamack scored 8.5 points per game and the team finished with a record of 31-13, the best record in the league. The team went to the finals again in 1947 but lost to George Mikan and the Chicago American Gears. Glamack retired from professional basketball in 1951.\n"}
{"id": "1884624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884624", "title": "John the Silent", "text": "John the Silent\n\nSaint John the Silent (c. January 8, 454 – c. 558), also known as St John the Hesychast (Greek: Ἅγιος Ἰωάννης ὁ Ἡσυχαστής), was a Christian saint known for living alone for seventy-six years. He was given the surname because he loved recollection and silence. St. John's feast day is May 13 in the Latin Rite of the Roman Catholic Church, and December 3 in the Eastern Orthodox and Eastern Catholic Churches.\n\nJohn was born in 454 AD in Nicopolis, Armenia. He came from a family of mainly generals and governors. His parents died when he was 18 and he built a monastery where he stayed with 10 young monks. Under John’s direction, they led a life of hard work and devotion.\n\nJohn built a reputation for leadership and sanctity, which led the archbishop of Sebaste to consecrate him bishop of Colonia in Armenia. He was only 28 at the time and had no desire for such a role. Nevertheless, he held the post of bishop for nine years before seeking to return to a life of seclusion. Uncertain of his future vocation, he went to Jerusalem.\n\nHis biographer says that while John was praying one night, he saw a bright cross form in the air and heard a voice say to him, “If thou desirest to be saved, follow this light.” He saw the light move and point to the monastery of St. Sabas. At 38 years old he joined the monastery, which held 150 monks. After some tests, St. Sabas let John have a separate hermitage for uninterrupted contemplation. For five days a week he fasted and never left his cell but on Saturdays and Sundays he went to public mass. After three years of this he was made the steward of the monastery.\n\nJohn had never told anyone he had been bishop so after four years, St. Sabas thought John was worthy to become a priest and presented him to the patriarch Elias of Jerusalem. They traveled to Calvary for the ordination but upon their arrival John requested a private audience with the patriarch. John said, “Holy Father, I have something to impart to you in private; after which, if you judge me worthy, I will receive holy orders.” They spoke in private after a promise of secrecy. “Father, I have been ordained bishop; but on account of the multitude of my sins have fled, and am come into this desert to wait the visit of the Lord.” The patriarch was startled but told St. Sabas, “I desire to be excused from ordaining this man, on account of some particulars he has revealed to me.” St. Sabas was afraid John had committed a crime and after he prayed, God revealed the truth to him. Sabas complained to John about keeping the secret from him and John wanted to leave the monastery. Sabas convinced him to stay by promising to keep his secret. John stayed in his cell for four years, speaking to no one except the person who brought him necessities.\n\nIn 503 AD certain turbulent disciples forced St. Sabas to leave his monastery. St. John moved to a nearby wilderness where he spent six years in silence, conversing only with God and eating only wild roots and herbs. When St. Sabas returned to his community, he found John in the desert and convinced him to move back to the monastery. John had become used to speaking only with God and found only bitterness and emptiness in anything else. He treasured obscurity and humility so he wanted to live unknown to men but was unable to do so. He returned with St. Sabas and lived in his cell for forty years. During this time he did not turn people away who desired his instruction.\n\nOne of these people was Cyril of Scythopolis who wrote about John’s life. The two men first met when John was ninety and Cyril was sixteen. Cyril had asked him what to do with his life and John recommended he join the Laura of St. Euthymius but Cyril did not listen. Instead, he went to a small monastery on the bank of the River Jordan. He fell ill there and deeply regretted not listening to John. While there, John appeared to him in a dream and after scolding him for not obeying said that if he returned to St. Euthymius’ monastery, he would get well and find his salvation. The next day he did so and was well again. John died in 558 AD at the age of 104. He lived in solitude for 76 years, interrupted only for the 9 years he was bishop.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1884631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884631", "title": "Kazuya Mishima", "text": "Kazuya Mishima\n\nThe character was based on writer Yukio Mishima, with whom he shares a last name. A number of staff members have considered him one of the franchise's strongest characters, which has led to debates about reducing the damage of some of his moves or removing them altogether. Kazuya's devil form was created to bring unrealistic fighters into the series, but the incarnation has made few appearances. Several voice actors have portrayed Kazuya in video games and films related to \"Tekken\".\n\nKazuya has been positively received by critics. A number of websites have listed him as one of the best \"Tekken\" characters and one of the best characters in fighting games. Journalists have praised Kazuya's moves and dark characterization, which rivals that of his father. Critical reception of Kazuya's portrayal in films has been mixed, with critics finding him generic.\n\nKazuya was created by Takuji Kawano. \"Tekken\" producer Katsuhiro Harada created Kazuya Mishima as a corrupted character with a \"pure dark side\" as opposed to his father Heihachi Mishima, who Harada identified as having a more \"human dark side\". The franchise's design team referred to Kazuya and Nina Williams as \"the soul [or] the cool part\" of the original 1994 game. Kazuya's design and characterization was influenced by a variety of sources. Kazuya's family name was taken from author Yukio Mishima, who was also used a model for the character's physical appearance. Harada compared Kazuya to a yakuza, while artist Takayuki Yamaguchi based the character's \"Tekken 6\" costume on a robot. When describing Kazuya's personality, Harada cited him, along with Heihachi and Jin Kazama, as the violent characters of \"Tekken\"; he described the family as too quarrelsome. Denying claims that \"Tekken\"'s plot is too convoluted, Harada said that its basic story is a \"simple\" struggle among members of the Mishima family with other characters dragged into the conflict. \n\nKazuya's characterization has been influenced by his tragic past. Despite his initial formulaic traits often seen in fighting games in the first \"Tekken\" game similar to Ryu from \"Street Fighter\", Kazuya started showing signs of being a more of antistereotypical in the story; This was due to him becoming the villain from \"Tekken 2\", clashing with his father multiple times who was the originally the boss of the first \"Tekken\" game. Harada described Kazuya as focused on power; writing that the character addresses \"different types of power\", he explained: \"that's kind of the story of Tekken and it's shown as the certain reality of people themselves rather than the idea law and order.\"\n\nNamco created \"Tekken 7\"'s storyline as a conclusion for Kazuya's struggle with Heihachi, though the company wanted the game's overall plot to be easily understood by newcomers. Harada also wanted the game to flesh out the characters' relationship and reveal why they are enemies. As part of the promotion for \"Tekken 7\", he said that either Kazuya or Heihachi would die in their final fight. The game's story mode includes a young Kazuya during the time Heihachi threw his son through a cliff following a fight; Harada said that the version of the character may be playable depending on fan demand. Harada called Kazuya's final fight with Heihachi a \"major milestone in the storyline\". Surprised by the length of the rivalry between the characters and \"Tekken\"'s popularity as a franchise, he felt it necessary to end in a fight to the death. Although Kazuya's rivalry with Heihachi ended in \"Tekken 7\", his relationship with his son Jin was left unresolved. Harada said that Jin's mother Jun Kazama would be \"an important and essential element in talking about the story of Kazuya and Jin\". Kazuya's relationship with Jun has been described a common love story in regards to the interactions between a corrupted man and a goodnatured woman, respectively. While Jun was originally meant to be Kazuya's enemy in \"Tekken 2\", the two end up becoming lovers due to Jun finding the hidden caring side in Kazuya behind his devil persona.\n\nKazuya has appeared in games with \"Street Fighter\" characters. Kazuya fights Akuma during the end of \"Tekken 7\"'s story mode; Harada explained that the outcome of the fight was intentionally ambiguous, saying: \"It’s still a work in progress.\" He joked that a scene with either character winning or being killed could negatively affect Namco's relationship with Capcom, particularly Capcom CEO Kenzo Tsujimoto. Kazuya teamed up with Nina for the crossover game \"Street Fighter X Tekken\". When creating the illustrations for the characters, artist Kazuma Teshigawara said that he wanted them to complement one another. Nina was selected for the game instead of Anna Williams since her cold personality was similar to Kazuya's. The two characters were featured in the game's first trailer in a fight against \"Street Fighter\" characters Ryu and Ken Masters; the trailer was intended to attract the audience with the game's main feature. Completing the game with Kazuya and Nina unlocks ending scene where Nina is revealed as an agent who escapes from Kazuya's forces. Artist Toshio Ohashi described the ending as the game's most cinematic due to similarities between the characters.\n\nKazuya's devil persona was created to meet Bandai Namco's request for more unrealistic characters in \"Tekken\", such as Kuma, in contrast with the \"Virtua Fighter\" fighting series. The Devil is unlockable as an alternate skin for Kazuya in the first game, though he appears as a separate character for \"Tekken 2\" with similar moves to Kazuya. Kazuya's devil form represents a common element in fantasy but it stands out due to its being related to his genes, most notably Jin's own devil. The parallelism between Kazuya and Jin's devils were compared with the protagonists from the \"Star Wars\" films, Darth Vader and Luke Skywalker, respectively.\n\nThe Devil fights with a laser, (also known as , through his staff and a pair of wings were added later in the game's production. He was made more powerful, with his ten-hit combo easily taking down enemies. Realizing how powerful the character had become, Namco decided to balance his moves before the game's release. The devil form is said to be based on Go Nagai's manga \"Devilman\", where main character Akira Fudo develops a similar appearance. Although Kazuya's devil persona had first appeared as a single character, in \"Tekken 4\" he was removed from the cast; according to Harada, Kazuya (unlike Jin) embraced the powers of the devil. In homage to \"Tekken: Blood Vengeance\", Kazuya's devil form from the film was added as an alternate version of the character for \"Tag Tournament 2\".\n\nFrom the first \"Tekken\" to \"Tag Tournament\", Kazuya has been voiced by Jōji Nakata. For the film \"\", writer Dai Satō added Jin and Kazuya as \"visual eye-candy\" similar to the Williams sisters (Nina and Anna). Satō wanted the pairs to be played together in the spin-off game \"Tekken Tag Tournament 2\", which relies on two-person teams. Japanese voice actor Masanori Shinohara enjoyed Kazuya's role in the \"Tekken\" CGI film, and hoped his fans would see him in action. \n\nKazuya's fighting style is known as . Motion actor Ryu Narushima performed many of Kazuya's moves while he was working on Jin. Kazuya's moves include techniques often used by his father and Jin, but some are unique. According to Harada, Kazuya is one of the most difficult characters for a player to control. He saw Kazuya as a fun character due to how powerful he is. As a result, Harada felt that gamers who lose while playing as him feel ashamed. While fans often questioned him, saying that Lars Alexandersson was the strongest character to use in tournaments, Harada denied such claims, believing the Mishimas were far more powerful. GameSpy said that while Kazuya retained his previous moves in \"Tekken 5\", new additions over-powered the character to the point that players disliked using him. In the next game, GameSpy said that he was given launcher moves which (despite making the character stronger) could leave the player vulnerable.\n\nCapcom recommended that players master Kazuya's combo, suggesting that it might turn the character into one of the most powerful in \"Street Fighter X Tekken\". Designing Kazuya's moves for this game, Capcom's Yoshinori Ono emailed Harada for ideas. Capcom soon received a \"Tekken\" guide and an email from Harada concerning Kazuya's moves. The character's combo had a glitch in this game, which Capcom patched. In the arcade game \"Tekken 7 Fated Retribution\", three of Kazuya's moves were patched to increase the damage they inflict. In making \"Tekken\"s transition to the Unreal Engine, the staff was concerned about leaving Kazuya's Electric Wind Godfist because it was considered over-powered in previous games. \"Famitsu\" recommended the character to skilled players, saying that some of his techniques have good potential—most notably , which makes him \"Tekken 7\" strongest character.\n\nBefore the events of the original \"Tekken\" game, Kazuya enters the King of Iron Fist Tournament to seek vengeance against his father Heihachi, who had thrown him off a cliff for unknown reasons. Undefeated, he reaches the final round and battles Heihachi. Kazuya defeats Heihachi and drops him from the same cliff he was thrown from as a child. In \"Tekken 2\", Kazuya has taken over the Mishima Zaibatsu, which engages in illegal activities such as assassination, extortion, arms dealing, and the smuggling of protected species. Kazuya then announces a second King of Iron Fist Tournament. He is the game's final boss, and his alter-ego Devil is a hidden boss. The Devil is said to appear as overpowered version of Kazuya who became one with him before the events of the first \"Tekken\" game. Heihachi reclaims the Mishima Zaibatsu by defeating Kazuya and throws him into the mouth of an erupting volcano. \"Tekken 3\" begins with Kazuya having impregnated Jun Kazama before his defeat by Heihachi.\n\nHe returns as the main character in \"Tekken 4\", set 21 years after \"Tekken 2\". Kazuya was revived by G Corporation (a genetics-company rival of the Mishima Zaibatsu), and allows the company to perform experiments on him to learn the nature of his Devil Gene. He vows revenge on Heihachi in the King of Iron Fist Tournament 4 and to extract the half of his Devil Gene in the body of his son, Jin Kazama. Heihachi leads Kazuya to Hon-Maru, a Mishima compound where Jin is held captive. Kazuya, influenced by Devil, knocks Heihachi out of the room with his psychic power and taunts Jin to wake him up. Jin defeats Kazuya and Heihachi in battle, but spares their lives.\n\nIn \"Tekken 5\", Kazuya and Heihachi are assaulted by a squadron of Jack-4s (machines sent to assassinate them by G Corporation for the Tekken Force raid on the corporation's laboratories) after Jin's departure from Hon-Maru. Kazuya jumps out of Hon-Maru, letting Heihachi die. Vowing revenge on G Corporation for their treachery, Kazuya enters the King of Iron Fist Tournament 5. In \"Tekken 6\", as the corporation's shadow head, he converts it into a military company which is the only opposition to the Mishima Zaibatsu (led by Jin), which has begun world conquest and declared war on several countries. The world sees G Corporation as its only savior, although Kazuya intends to kill Jin and dominate the world himself. He uses the company's influence to stop Jin from world domination. Kazuya meets his half-brother, Lars Alexandersson, before he can face Jin. They fight, and Kazuya is forced to leave.\n\nIn \"Tekken 7\", Kazuya's mother is revealed as Kazumi Mishima, who died while trying to kill Heihachi. It is revealed the young Kazuya sought revenge against his father but Heihachi threw him to the cliff as he noticed Kazuya inherited Kazumi's Devil Gene, which he finally confirms it. In the story, Kazuya sends an army of Jack-6 robots to the Mishima dojo to eliminate Heihachi, who was confronted by the warrior Akuma moments before. Akuma says that he was sent by Kazumi to kill Kazuya and Heihachi, later confronting Kazuya at G Corporation's Millennium Tower and revealing his debt to Kazumi for saving his life from an unknown critical situation he was in. Surviving defeat by Akuma, Heihachi secretly captures images of the battle in which Kazuya transforms into his devil form. He broadcasts the images worldwide, exposing Kazuya's nature to undermine public trust in G Corporation as the Zaibatsu's opponents in the war. Heihachi blasts the Millennium Tower with a satellite in an attempt to destroy Kazuya and Akuma; Kazuya survives the attack, and destroys the satellite with a devil beam. Heihachi tells a reporter that Kazuya's devil gene came from his mother, Kazumi. In the final battle at the mouth of a volcano, Kazuya (the final boss of the story mode) transforms into his devil form, kills Heihachi, and throws him into a lava pit. Akuma resurfaces, having survived the previous blast. Kazuya transforms into his final devil form and they battle once more, with the outcome unknown.\n\nKazuya is the protagonist of the \"Tekken\" mobile game. He also appears in the non-canonical \"Tekken Tag Tournament\", confronting his son's devil form at the end. Kazuya's devil persona is also playable; the game ends with his taking Jun after defeating her alter ego. In the sequel, \"Tekken Tag Tournament 2\", Kazuya murders Jun to increase the power of his own devil form. He can morph into Devil during gameplay with several new moves, instead of becoming a separate character. Kazuya also appears in \"Tekken Revolution\".\n\nHe appeared in devil form in the crossover strategy RPG \"Namco × Capcom\", with several other Namco and Capcom characters. Kazuya made a playable debut in human form—also transforming into his devil form—in the sequel of \"Namco × Capcom\" successor, \"Project X Zone 2\", teaming up with his son, Jin. Kazuya's image is downloadable content in Namco's \"\", and it appears as in \"Taiko: Drum Master V Version\". Although he does not appear, Kazuya is mentioned in the crossover fighting game \"PlayStation All-Stars Battle Royale\".\n\nHe was one of the first characters featured in the Capcom's crossover fighting game, \"Street Fighter X Tekken\". In the debut trailer, Kazuya defeats Dan Hibiki in to confront \"Street Fighter\" mascot Ryu. He wants to seize Pandora's Box to control the devil gene, and hires Nina Williams to assist him. Kazuya appeared in CyberConnect2's tactical role-playing game \"Full Bokko Heroes X\" in his \"Tekken 7\" design, with a \"chibi\" look. He also appears in SNK's mobile phone game \"The King of Fighters All Star\".\n\nKazuya is the protagonist in the 1998 original video animation (OVA) \"\". As in the \"Tekken\" game series, he is thrown off a cliff at a young age by Heihachi and saved by a deal with the devil. Kazuya becomes bent on revenge against Heihachi and enters the King of Iron Fist Tournament to confront him. Jun Kazama repeatedly implores him not to kill his father; after Kazuya defeats Heihachi, Jun destroys the devil's influence and restores his kind, compassionate self. He spares Heihachi's life and fathers Jin with Jun, but is not seen after the tournament's conclusion. Kazuya is voiced by Kazuhiro Yamaji in the original Japanese version and Adam Dudley in the English dub. He is also featured in the \"Tekken Forever\" and \"Tekken Saga\" comics. In the Titan comic, Kazuya briefly faces his son before assaulting the Mishima corporation.\n\nPlayed by Ian Anthony Dale, he is the antagonist in the 2009 live-action film \"Tekken\". Kazuya is Heihachi's right-hand man at Tekken Corporation, hoping to take over his father's company. Impatient with Heihachi's compassion for Jin, he overthrows him and orders his execution (although Heihachi persuades the soldier to spare him). After Jin wins the tournament, Kazuya challenges him to a one-on-one duel. Initially defeating Jin, Kazuya is critically wounded; however, Jin refuses to kill him because of their blood relation and lets him live in shame. Japanese-American martial artist-actor Kane Kosugi played Kazuya in the 2014 prequel, \"\". An amnesiac afer experiments by his father, Kazuya spends the movie fighting until he regains his memory.\n\nHe is present in the CGI-animated film \"\", an alternate version of the events between \"Tekken 5\" and \"Tekken 6\"; Kazuya, an antagonist, faces his father and son and is defeated by the latter. Played by Kefi Abrikh, he appears in the live-action short film \"Tekken Tag Tournament 2\". His role in the franchise is also told in the novel, \"Tekken: The Dark History of Mishima\".\n\nCritical reception of the character has been largely positive, and he has often been listed as one of the best \"Tekken\" characters due to his appeal to gamers. \"Complex\" writers praised his dark backstory, saying that Kazuya became increasingly attractive over time, calling him the greatest character of the franchise. According to the magazine's website, Kazuya was one of the characters they wanted to see in \"Super Smash Bros. Brawl 4\". \"FHM\" compared him to \"Street Fighter\" Ryu, based on their popularity and representation of their respective series. Kazuya was also compared to his father, Heihachi, due to their similar natures and rivalry. Bandai Namco opened the Tekken Museum in Osaka in May 2012, where a statue of Kazuya and Jin performing a cross-counter was exhibited.\n\nA number of websites have noted on Kazuya's dark characterization in the games. \"Den of Geek\" enjoyed Kazuya's strong violence, such as his murder of his grandfather Jinpachi Mishima at the end of \"Tekken 5\". By \"Tekken 4\", \"IGN\" had praised his evil traits and intention to participate in the series' tournaments. Although \"GamesRadar\" noted that Kazuya had been disliked, they and other websites praised his transformation into a devil (enhancing his evil characteristics). \"Kotaku\" compared him with Heihachi and called him one of gaming's worst parents due to his antagonism to his son, Jin. PlayStation Universe ranked Kazuya and Heihachi among the top five rival pairs in \"Tekken Tag Tournament 2\" due to their relationship and power, describing them as one of the game's best tags. While enjoying his appearances in the series, \"Den of Geek\" felt Kazuya tends to lose most of his fights in the franchise.\n\nKazuya's alter ego, Devil Kazuya, was also praised. The difficulty in unlocking him in the series' first game did not prevent him from being listed as one of the best characters, similar to Kazuya. According to \"GamesRadar\", players wanted to see a fight between Devil Kazuya and Akuma in \"Street Fighter X Tekken\" due to the similarities in their design. In a Namco poll, Kazuya was the 18th-most-requested \"Tekken\" character to be playable in \"Tekken X Street Fighter\" (with 6.51 percent of the vote); 5.05 percent of the votes were cast for Devil, a separate voting option. In \"Tekken 7\", a bonus fight between Devil Kazuya and Akuma could be unlocked. Calling Devil Kazuya a difficult opponent, \"Shacknews\" and \"Hobby Consolas\" said that Akuma offered players a challenge; gamers needed to learn Devil Kazuya's moves to defeat him, resulting in the game's most difficult fight.\n\nWebsites have also noted Kazuya's moves, and his Lightning Screw Uppercut was listed by \"GamesRadar\" as one of the most satisfying uppercuts in gaming history. \"Prima Games\" praised Kazuya's Electric Wind God Fist for its impact on the enemy and possible player combos, and \"ArcadeSushi\" recommended it to players wanting to use the Mishima characters. Kazuya's Spinning Demon was performed by Eric Jacobus, attracting Harada's attention.\n\nKazuya's appearances outside the \"Tekken\" games have also been noted. Alex Henning of \"The Fandom Post\" stated that John Kim's Western comics adapted well Kazuya's personality in the series, finding it similar to his game incarnation. For the anime film \"Tekken: The Motion Picture\", Eric Sandroni of \"Games Retrospect\" called Kazuya one of the film's characters who seemed realistic. However, his English voice actor Adam Dudley has been criticized for his portrayal of the character. In a review of the first \"Tekken\" live-action film, \"DVD Talk\" had negative opinions on Kazuya and Heihachi's subplot regarding their rivalry. In \"Kazuya's Revenge\", \"Manlu Movie\" panned the actor's performance. \"GameCrate\" disliked his moves (calling them \"noticeably generic\") and his romantic relationship with Laura. Phil Wheat had mixed feelings about Kazuya's role, saying he was still appealing though longtime fans may dislike the changes to his character; Wheat described the teaser for a new film as engaging, and said that he enjoyed seeing Kazuya fight his son, Jin. \"Games Retrospect\" was harsher, calling Kazuya a \"flat\" character due to his generic traits.\n\n"}
{"id": "1884632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884632", "title": "Le Soleil (Quebec)", "text": "Le Soleil (Quebec)\n\nLe Soleil is a French-language daily newspaper in Quebec City, Quebec. It was founded on December 28, 1896 and is published in compact format since April 2006 (it had traditionally been printed in broadsheet). It is distributed mainly in Quebec City; however, it is also for sale at newsstands in Ottawa, Montreal, New Brunswick and some places in Florida, where many Quebecers spend the winter. It is owned by Groupe Capitales Médias.\n\nOn weekdays \"Le Soleil\" contains four sections : the front section \"(Actualités)\", containing local and international news coverage; the Arts & Life, or \"B\" section \"(Arts & Vie)\"; the Business, or \"C\" section \"(Économie)\"; and the Sports, or \"S\" section.\n\n\"Le Soleil\" rose from the ashes of \"L'Électeur\", the official newspaper of the Liberal Party of Canada, which shut down in December 1896. The first edition was published on December 28, 1896. one day after the disappearance of its predecessor, which shut down because the Catholic clergy had forbidden it to parishioners when the newspaper criticized the Church's electoral interference. It was renamed \"Le Soleil\" in reference to \"Le Soleil\", a daily newspaper based in Paris by the same name.\n\nIn 1957, \"Le Soleil\" (then owned by Oscar Gilbert) cut ties to the Liberal Party of Canada in order to concentrate on news coverage. Daily circulation rose past 100,000 in the 1960s, and over 150,000 in the 1970s.\n\nBeginning in 1973, many large corporations began to express interest in acquiring \"Le Soleil\". Controversy was stirred when Paul Desmarais's Power Corporation of Canada announced its intention to buy the daily. It provoked the intervention of then-Quebec premier Robert Bourassa because such a transaction would have concentrated 70% of Quebec francophone daily newspapers in the hands of a single company. Eventually the paper was bought by Unimédia.\n\nIn 1987, Conrad Black's Hollinger Inc. acquired the newspaper. It would eventually pass into the hands of Groupe Gesca, which also owns several Quebec newspapers, and is a wholly owned subsidiary of Power Corporation of Canada.\n\nIn 2006, the newspaper had switched to a tabloid format at the same time as Sherbrooke's \"La Tribune\" and Trois-Rivières's \"Le Nouvelliste\", all owned by Gesca. Recent declines in readership due to competition by \"Le Journal de Québec\" was the main explanation of the switch from a broadsheet format.\n\n\"Le Soleil \" has seen like most Canadian daily newspapers a decline in circulation. Its total circulation dropped by percent to 78,455 copies daily from 2009 to 2015.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1884636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884636", "title": "Alan Wiggins", "text": "Alan Wiggins\n\nAlan Anthony Wiggins (February 17, 1958 – January 6, 1991) was an American professional baseball player. He was a second baseman and outfielder in Major League Baseball (MLB) for the San Diego Padres and Baltimore Orioles between 1981 and 1987. A speedy leadoff hitter, Wiggins had his best season with the pennant-winning Padres in 1984. He batted one slot in the lineup ahead of Tony Gwynn that year, and the pair's offensive production helped the Padres win the National League Championship Series (NLCS) and advance to the World Series.\n\nWiggins grew up in California and attended Pasadena City College before being drafted by the California Angels in 1977. He played in the minor league systems of the Angels and the Los Angeles Dodgers, setting a professional baseball single-season record with 120 stolen bases in 1980. He made his major league debut with the San Diego Padres in 1981, and he became a regular player within two years. In 1983 he set the Padres' single-season stolen base record, a mark that he extended the following season. His 1984 stolen bases total (70) is still a team record as of the start of the 2019 season.\n\nDuring his major league career, Wiggins struggled with drug addiction, which resulted in several arrests and suspensions from baseball. His drug problems prompted a 1985 trade from San Diego to Baltimore, where Wiggins spent three seasons. After leaving baseball, he was diagnosed with AIDS, and he was the first MLB player known to die of the disease. Long after his death, two of his children, Candice and Alan, Jr., became professional basketball players.\n\nWiggins was born in Los Angeles, California, and his mother, Karla Wiggins, raised him as a single parent. As a child, he played baseball with his friends at a park across from the Rose Bowl, and he was a fan of the Los Angeles Dodgers and their base-stealing shortstop, Maury Wills. Wiggins graduated from John Muir High School in Pasadena, California, which was also the alma mater of Dodgers star Jackie Robinson. Gib Bodet, a scout for the Montreal Expos, noticed Wiggins in high school. Wiggins was tall, which was taller than a typical infielder. He was only an average hitter and fielder, but his speed stood out to Bodet.\n\nThe California Angels selected Wiggins as the eighth overall pick of the January 1977 MLB amateur draft. In 1977 Wiggins played junior college baseball at Pasadena City College, where he was a teammate of future major leaguers Matt Young and Rod Booker. Bodet, who had moved to the Angels scouting staff just before the draft, joined other Angels staff members and worked out with Wiggins after the team selected him. Angels coach Bob Clear told Wiggins that his excellent speed would help him to a high batting average even if his hitting skills were not that strong: \"If you can hit .200, you can run the other eighty points. And if you can hit .280, you can lead off for anybody.\" Wiggins signed with the Angels in May for $2,500 after what Bodet described as \"a tough negotiation\". According to Bodet, Wiggins' mother \"did not trust easily\".\n\nWiggins played minor league baseball in 1977 for the Angels rookie-league affiliate in Idaho Falls, where he hit .271 and had 25 stolen bases in 63 games. In 1978, with the ClassA Quad Cities Angels, Wiggins stole 26 bases in 49 games, but his batting average fell to .201. Following a mid-season fight with one of his coaches, he was released by the Angels organization in June 1978. Wiggins feared that his career was near its end, but he reached out to Los Angeles Dodgers scout Gail Henley. After a workout in front of the Dodgers and manager Tommy Lasorda, Wiggins signed with the team before the 1979 season, receiving an invitation to spring training and then being assigned to the team's ClassA affiliate, the Clinton Dodgers.\n\nIn 95 games for Clinton, Wiggins hit .257, stole 43 bases, and converted to a shortstop after spending the previous two seasons as a second baseman. He also appeared in the outfield and at all three of the other infield positions for Clinton. Playing with the ClassA Lodi Dodgers of the California League in 1980, Wiggins batted .288 and scored 108 runs while stealing 120 bases in just 135 games. He established a professional baseball single-season steals record, surpassing the previous minor league mark of 116 set by Allan Lewis in 1966, as well as Lou Brock's major league record of 118 in 1974. \n\nAfter the 1980 season, Wiggins' fourth year in the minor leagues, he was eligible to be selected by other teams in that year's Rule 5 draft. The Rule 5 draft is a procedure that stops teams from hoarding young players in the minor leagues when those players might be able to make it to the major leagues with other organizations. A team can protect a player from the Rule 5 draft by adding him to its major league roster. The Dodgers decided not to protect Wiggins, and since he had once caught the eye of San Diego Padres general manager Jack McKeon, the Padres selected him in the draft. Padres officials later said that they knew Wiggins had been arrested for possession of marijuana while with the Dodgers. \"It was known in our organization that he had a problem in the Dodger organization. They didn't want a part of it,\" Padres manager Dick Williams said.\n\nAfter having spent most of his minor league career as an infielder, he was used almost exclusively as an outfielder with the Hawaii Islanders of the Pacific Coast League in 1981. He batted .302 with 73 steals, and received a September call-up to the major leagues as an outfielder. In his first stint with the Padres, he got five hits in 14 at bats. Wiggins began the following season with the Islanders, but he was called up again by the Padres in early May to replace injured outfielder Gene Richards. Wiggins was leading San Diego with 29 stolen bases in 59 games when he was arrested for possession of cocaine in July. He was issued a 30-day suspension from baseball, and spent a month in a substance abuse treatment facility. The Padres, who were one of the first sports teams to offer an employee assistance program to players, paid for all of his treatment, and he returned to the team in September. By 1983 Wiggins had become a regular in the Padres lineup, batting in the leadoff spot and playing in the outfield for most of the season. He was exceptional on defense in left field, hit .276 and stole 66 bases. He was moved to first base for the last 45 games of the year after Steve Garvey suffered a broken thumb. Wiggins' stolen bases total broke the single-season team record of 61 set by Richards in 1980. Wiggins was named the team's most valuable player that season.\n\nWiggins was moved to second base in 1984, making room for rookie Carmelo Martínez in the outfield. Until that season, Martínez had been a first baseman, but the Padres already had a strong player there with Garvey, and they wanted to get Martínez into the lineup to improve their outfield's home run production. Wiggins retained the leadoff spot in the lineup, hitting ahead of Tony Gwynn. During a May game, Wiggins became the fifth 20th-century MLB player to steal five bases in one game, tying a National League (NL) record. In August, Wiggins unwittingly became a party to a series of fights when he was hit with the first pitch of a game by Atlanta Braves pitcher Pascual Pérez. The teams retaliated against each other throughout the game with brushback pitches and beanballs, and the tension resulted in three fights and several ejections.\nOn the season, Wiggins scored 106 runs, stole 70 bases and led the league with 391 putouts. His stolen bases total stood as a Padres single-season record as of the end of the 2017 season. Benefitting from the higher number of fastballs opposing pitchers threw in response to Wiggins' speed, Gwynn batted above .400 when his speedy teammate was on base, and hit .351 overall for the first of his eight career batting titles. The duo was one of the biggest reasons behind San Diego's success. The team could score quickly with Wiggins getting on first, stealing second, and scoring on a hit by Gwynn. Wiggins batted .316 in the 1984 NLCS against the Chicago Cubs, going two-for-three with two runs scored in the fifth and deciding game. In the 1984 World Series against the Detroit Tigers, which the Padres lost in five games, Wiggins batted .364 and scored twice. His eight hits were the most of any Padres player in the series. According to manager Dick Williams, Wiggins was \"absolutely the most valuable player in the National League in 1984\". \"Alan Wiggins' role in bringing San Diego the 1984 National League championship wasn't put into proper perspective until the Padres tried to defend their title without him,\" sportswriter Phil Collier later wrote.\n\nBefore the 1985 season, the Padres signed Wiggins to a four-year contract extension worth nearly $3million. His agent described him as one of the highest-paid NL second basemen. Wiggins missed the last two weeks of spring training after injuring his knee during a double-play attempt on defense when a baserunner slid into him. He was unavailable for the start of the season, but returned to the lineup after being out for five games. Wiggins was batting .054 and was without a stolen base two weeks into the season when he was suspended by the Padres following a relapse into cocaine dependency. After Wiggins completed a drug rehabilitation program, the Padres did not want to reactivate him, but baseball's joint review board cleared him to return to play. In June, Donald Fehr of the Major League Baseball Players Association (MLBPA) announced that he intended to file a grievance against the Padres if they did not promptly activate Wiggins. The Padres sought to trade Wiggins and the Baltimore Orioles showed interest, but as the trade deadline approached, the Orioles were reportedly only offering two minor league players in exchange for him.\n\nOn June 27, 1985, Wiggins was traded to the Orioles for pitchers Roy Lee Jackson and Richard Caldwell. Padres owner Joan Kroc said that the team had warned Wiggins that he would not remain with the team if he had further problems with drugs. She stated that it would have been self-serving to keep Wiggins after his relapse when he could instead pursue a fresh start with another team. Nonetheless, Gwynn felt that Wiggins had been shortchanged by the Padres.\n\nWiggins spent a few days in the minor leagues before being called up to Baltimore. In his first game with the Orioles, he started at second base and was the team's leadoff hitter, reaching base three times, driving in a run and scoring a run. After the game, Wiggins commented that he felt welcome on the team and did not feel like he was starting out with anything to prove. In 76 games for Baltimore that year, he hit .285, scored 43 runs and finished eighth in the American League with 30 stolen bases. Baltimore fans felt that Wiggins was lazy, as he often stopped running to first base on ground balls and showed a lack of effort on defense. He spent much of his time alone and did not talk to his teammates for much of the season.\n\nWiggins later said that he had been depressed because he missed his wife and children, who were still living in San Diego. His family moved to a suburb of Baltimore before the 1986 season, but Wiggins still struggled to win over Orioles fans and teammates. When the team asked him to field extra ground balls during spring training, he complied but did so sluggishly. Later in the year, he angered Cal Ripken Jr. when he threw a bat in frustration and the bat struck Ripken in the dugout. In June, Wiggins was tagged out with the hidden ball trick, and he made three errors the next day, including two in the same inning. After the two-error inning, Baltimore fans booed as his picture was revealed on the scoreboard during a \"Who Am I\" feature at the ballpark. Wiggins was frustrated by the fan response because he had relatives at the game that day. Manager Earl Weaver understood why Wiggins was upset over the timing of the scoreboard feature, but he said that Wiggins \"had more chances than anyone who ever wore an Orioles' uniform\". He batted .251 with 21 stolen bases and 30 runs scored, played only 71 games, and was reassigned to the Triple-A Rochester Red Wings at one point in the season.\n\nThe following season, Cal Ripken Sr. replaced Weaver as manager of the Orioles. Baltimore signed Rick Burleson to play second base and Ray Knight to play third base. The moves seemed to leave Wiggins battling for an outfield spot, but after he hit .413 during spring training, Ripken suggested that he might use Wiggins as a utility player. Just before the season started, Wiggins said he was not happy with Ripken's idea of using him in a utility role, feeling that his spring performance should have secured him a starting position. He believed that he could be an asset in the leadoff batting slot.\n\nAt the start of the 1987 regular season, Wiggins spent some time as a designated hitter (DH) and shared second base duties with Burleson. Rookie second baseman Billy Ripken joined the club on July10. Burleson was cut, but general manager Hank Peters said, \"We're not bringing [Billy Ripken] up here to sit on the bench.\" Wiggins was hitting .242 on July10, and he played mostly DH after the rookie's arrival. In early August, Wiggins received a three-day suspension after he got into an altercation with teammate Jim Dwyer and grabbed the shirt of Ripken Sr.\n\nOn September1 MLB indefinitely suspended Wiggins for a behavior issue, and an anonymous Orioles official told the media that the suspension resulted from a positive drug screen. Wiggins was released from the Orioles on September29 and the team had to pay him two-thirds of his $800,000 salary for 1988. MLBPA officials announced that they would not issue grievances related to Wiggins' suspension and subsequent release, noting that Wiggins wanted to be released by that point.\n\nThough Wiggins did not give up hope for a return to baseball, he began to study the real estate market after his suspension from the game. In the late 1980s Wiggins started to suffer from health difficulties related to AIDS, though the diagnosis was not publicly disclosed while he was alive. He was receiving deferred payments from his baseball career, and he began to make plans for the financial future of his children. He told one of his former teammates that he was getting into computer work. Gwynn said that he had seen Wiggins in the spring of 1990 and was struck by his visible weight loss.\n\nIn his final months, he sold his home in Poway, California, and moved to Pasadena. Though he often stayed with friends, some of his longtime friends felt that he died in seclusion, embarrassed by what had happened with his life. In November 1990 Wiggins was hospitalized with pneumonia and tuberculosis at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. Wiggins stated that he had contracted HIV via intravenous drug use. After lapsing in and out of consciousness for a month, he died at the hospital on January6, 1991.\n\nWiggins' family initially attributed his death to lung cancer that had led to respiratory failure. Family members said that he had gotten sick with a cough and that his condition had worsened quickly. Wiggins weighed under at the time of his death. Several days after Wiggins died, a physician disclosed that his health problems were complications of AIDS. He became the first baseball player known to have died from AIDS.\n\nAfter Wiggins died, longtime Oriole Frank Robinson said, \"He was a very bright individual, and you could like the guy. But there was always something there to back you off.\" Former Padres player Garry Templeton said that he might have been Wiggins' closest friend, but said that he did not know that Wiggins had been ill. Wiggins is buried at Rose Hills Memorial Park in Whittier, California.\n\nWiggins met his wife Angela when they were in junior high school, and they both graduated from John Muir High School. The \"Los Angeles Times\" reported that Wiggins had experienced marital strife, but that he would not entertain the thought of divorce; he wanted to ensure that his children did not grow up in a single-parent household as he had. Two of Wiggins' three children became professional basketball players. Candice, an All-American at Stanford University, joined the Minnesota Lynx as the third overall pick in the 2008 WNBA draft. She has served as a spokesperson for the Greater Than AIDS campaign. Alan Jr. played at the University of San Francisco and professionally in several countries. His oldest daughter, Cassandra, played college basketball at New York University.\n\nWiggins and his mother were very close, and her 1983 bipolar disorder diagnosis may have contributed to his drug problems. He was devastated that she would not be able to enjoy his success in the major leagues. In the last few years of Wiggins' life, he enjoyed a closer relationship with his father, Albert, and he often took his children on visits to see their grandfather. Wiggins had a very difficult time with his father's death in May 1990.\n\nThe Orioles once gave an IQ test, and Wiggins scored higher than everyone except for Weaver. Wiggins' agent, Tony Attanasio, said that Wiggins' intelligence had caused problems in his relationships with teammates. He said that Wiggins had always been reserved and had a difficult time trusting other people. Wiggins enjoyed stubbornly engaging in debates with his teammates, particularly Padres pitcher Eric Show, just to provoke reactions from them. He liked to read books and newspapers, and his teammates were turned off by these displays of his intellect. According to Attanasio, players in Baltimore also resented Wiggins because he replaced Rich Dauer, who had been a well-liked member of the team. Lee Lacy was one of Wiggins' few friends on the Orioles. Tony Gwynn suggested that Wiggins was sometimes misunderstood. \"To not like Alan Wiggins, is to not know Alan Wiggins,\" Gwynn said.\n\n"}
{"id": "1884640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884640", "title": "Edward Benjamin Cushing", "text": "Edward Benjamin Cushing\n\nEdward Benjamin Cushing (November 22, 1862 – February 17, 1924) was an engineer and academic administrator. He served as the Chairman of the Board of Regents of Texas A&M University in 1912.\n\nEdward Benjamin Cushing was born in Houston, Texas to E.H. and Matilda Cushing. His father was an outspoken Southern Democrat and owner of \"The Telegraph\", a Houston newspaper. He graduated from the Agricultural and Mechanical College of Texas, now known as Texas A&M University, in 1880.\n\nHe worked as a civil engineer for Southern Pacific Railroad after graduation and served in the U.S. Army. He also served as chief secretary of the Association of Ex-Cadets. He was appointed to the Board of Directors for the school in 1912, only a year before assuming its presidency.\n\nLater, he personally bankrolled the fledgling Texas A&M University while Chairman of the Board of Regents in 1912. His money and campaign prevented a Texas A&M consolidation with the University of Texas at Austin.\n\nIn 1888, he married Florence Abbey Powars.\n\nIn March 1904, his brother was kidnapped for ransom in West Texas and taken across the border to Mexico.\n\nHe died in Houston in 1924. At the time of his death, he was a bank receiver for First National Bank in Granger, Texas.\n\nIn 1930, a library was built at Texas A&M University in memory of Cushing. This represented the first freestanding library on the Texas A&M campus. The Sterling C. Evans Library was constructed in 1968 and became the university's primary library, but the Cushing Library remained as a repository of important university archives.\n\n"}
{"id": "1884648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884648", "title": "Muro Lucano", "text": "Muro Lucano\n\nMuro Lucano is a city and \"comune\" in the province of Potenza, in the northern part of the region of Basilicata, southern Italy.\n\nThe city is situated on the site of the ancient Numistri, at the foot of the Apennines, the scene of a battle between Hannibal and Marcellus in the Second Punic War.\n\nThe city has a cathedral; and it was in its castle that Queen Joan of Naples was murdered on the orders of her adopted son Charles III of Naples.\n\nThe city of Muro Lucano is composed of the old town and the surrounding areas of Cappuccini to the north and Giardini (meaning \"gardens\") to the south. It is from Potenza, the chief city of the province. Muro Lucano rises above sea level, occupies a surface area of and in 2005 had a population of approximately 6,000. The population, which was over 10,000 in the 1950s, has been declining steadily through the years due to social changes, lack of local work and large scale emigration. There are about 2,200 families with an average of close to 2.7 people per family.\n\nThe territory of the municipality is between above sea level. The city lies on a slope over the Muro ravine, with quaint houses built on terraces. The name of the city comes from the medieval wall (in Italian \"muro\") that surrounded the medieval centre.\n\nMurese, the city's dialect, is spoken only in the immediate vicinity and can be difficult for Italian speakers to comprehend.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1884656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884656", "title": "Roelf Vos", "text": "Roelf Vos\n\nRoelf Vos (1921 – 2 December 1992) was a Tasmanian businessman who established a supermarket chain carrying his name initially in Launceston, and later throughout northern Tasmania. The equivalent in the south of the state was Purity Supermarkets established by Engel Sypkes.\n\nBorn and raised in the Netherlands, he was involved in the resistance during the second world war. He migrated with his wife and children to Australia in 1951 where he initially worked as a labourer on a wage of $19. In 1954 he opened a gift store in Deloraine followed shortly afterwards by another in Georgetown. Around 1958, he rented a small shop in Launceston, a milk bar which he converted into northern Tasmania's first self-service grocery store.\nBy 1969, he was operating eight supermarkets in Launceston, each with a car park and a combined turnover in 1969 of $3,500,000.\nIn December 1969 he purchased two Moran & Cato shops in Ulverstone and Devonport for $250,000, and was hoping to open two new shops, one of which in Burnie. He ultimately had thirteen supermarkets employing 500 people. In 1982, after he suffered two heart attacks, the supermarket operations were sold to Woolworths, which continued to trade under the Vos name for 20 years. Vos went on to establish the Grindelwald resort in Tasmania, modelled on Grindelwald in Switzerland.\n\nThe Vos family retained ownership of the properties, including two shopping centres in the north and north west of Tasmania. They were rebranded as Woolworths in the early 2000s.\n\nAt the time of the final loss of the Roelf Vos name, the stores in Launceston included a CBD store (Wellington Street), as well as Newstead, Kings Meadows, Prospect Vale, Riverside and Newnham. The CBD Wellington Street and Newstead stores are now Coles supermarkets, and the Newnham store has closed and is now a City Mission charity store.\n\nRoelf Vos supermarkets were colloquially referred to as Vossie's in Tasmania.\n\n"}
{"id": "1884663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884663", "title": "Devil's Dyke, Sussex", "text": "Devil's Dyke, Sussex\n\nDevil's Dyke is a 100m deep V-shaped valley on the South Downs Way in southern England, near Brighton and Hove. It is part of a Site of Special Scientific Interest, Beeding Hill to Newtimber Hill. Devil's Dyke was a major local tourist attraction in the late 19th and early 20th centuries.\n\nThe Dyke is formed in rocks of the Chalk Group which originated as marine sediments during the Cretaceous period.\n\nIt is a misconception common amongst local residents of Brighton that the valley was formed by some kind of glacial action, the myth of a 'glacier' being a misunderstanding of accounts such as this one from the \"Encyclopaedia of Brighton\" by Timothy Carder (1990):\n\n\"In reality the 300-foot-deep valley was carved by tremendous amounts of water running off the Downs during the last Ice Age when large amounts of snow thawed and the frozen chalk prevented any further absorption; erosion was aided by the freeze-thaw cycle and the valley was deepened by the 'sludging' of the saturated chalk.\".\n\nThe Devil's Dyke V-shaped dry valley is the result of solifluction and river erosion. More than fourteen thousand years ago, the area experienced an intensely cold climate (but not glacial conditions). Snowfields capped the South Downs. Permafrost conditions meant that the chalk was permanently frozen. In summer, the snowfields melted and saturated the top layer of soil, because the water could not permeate the frozen chalk underneath. Waterlogged material situated above the permafrost slid down the gradient, removing material by friction, exposing deeper layers of frozen chalk. When the Ice Age ended, the snowfields covering the South Downs melted, and rivers formed across Sussex. The Devil's Dyke valley was completed by one such river.\n\nThe hills surrounding the valley rise to 217 metres and offer views of the South Downs, The Weald, and – on a clear day – the Isle of Wight. It is the site of ramparts, all that remain of an Iron Age hillfort, and a pub. It is a popular local beauty spot for the Brighton and Hove area, being an easy journey of just a few miles by car .\n\nLocal folklore explains the valley as the work of the devil. The legend holds that the devil was digging a trench to allow the sea to flood the many churches in the Weald of Sussex. The digging disturbed an old woman who lit a candle, or angered a rooster causing it to crow, making the devil believe that the morning was fast approaching. The devil then fled, leaving his trench unfinished. The last shovel of earth he threw over his shoulder fell into the sea, forming the Isle of Wight.\n\nA further variant has it that the Devil's digging was terminated by him stubbing his toe on a large rock which he kicked in anger over the hills towards the sea, then abandoning his diabolic plans of Weald destruction due to the injuries sustained. The rock landed in the area now known, consequently, as Goldstone valley in Hove. The Goldstone acquired its name from the hints of gold in its makeup. The enormous and mysterious rock now lies in Hove Park in Goldstone Valley, near where it was first discovered. It can be seen at the Old Shoreham Road end of the park and is considered to have been possibly an object of Druid worship.\n\nAnother story holds that rather than digging to flood Sussex, he was simply in a huge goat-like form, intending to crush the surrounding area. He smelt the tang of salt water in the wind, and fearing his coat would get damp (for he is vain to the point of sin), he fled leaving nothing but a hoof-print, now known as Devil's Dyke.\n\nEnglish pagan Black Metal band Old Forest released a song and video titled 'The Devil's Dyke' on their 23 April 2008 'Death To Music Productions' EP release 'Tales of the Sussex Weald ; Part 1 (The Legend of the Devil's Dyke)'.\n\nBefore and after the Iron Age, Devil's Dyke was used as a defensive site. This was probably because of its commanding view of the surrounding terrain, and also its steep edges surrounded by large expanses of flat land.\n\nIn the Iron Age, Devil's Dyke was an important site. All the vegetation was scraped off the white chalk, leaving Devil's Dyke as an impressive monument to both attract and intimidate the populace.\n\nIn late Victorian times Devil's Dyke became a tourist attraction, complete with a fairground, two bandstands, an observatory and a camera obscura, all served by a branchline from Hove. During its heyday, Devil's Dyke was a huge attraction for the Victorians, with 30,000 people visiting on Whit Monday in 1893.\n\n\nTraces remain of all three ventures, including the remains of concrete pylon supports for the cable car system.\n\nIn May 2014 a large illegal rave was reported in the National Park. However, police were unable to shut it down, as they did not have sufficient officers available. Authorities estimated that revellers numbered close to 2,000.\n\nDevil's Dyke has also become a popular site for paragliding.\n\n"}
{"id": "1884667", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884667", "title": "French leave", "text": "French leave\n\nA French leave is a departure from a location or event without informing others or without seeking approval. Examples include relatively innocuous acts such leaving a party without bidding farewell in order to avoid disturbing or upsetting the host, or more problematic acts such as a soldier leaving his post without authorization.\n\nThe phrase is first recorded in 1771 and was born at a time when the English and French cultures were heavily interlinked.\n\nIn French, the equivalent phrase is \"filer à l'anglaise\" (\"to leave English style\") and seems to date from the turn of the 19th and 20th centuries.\n\nThe Oxford English Dictionary records: \"the custom (in the 18th century prevalent in France and sometimes imitated in England) of going away from a reception, etc. without taking leave of the host or hostess. Hence, jocularly, to take French leave is to go away, or do anything, without permission or notice.\" OED states the first recorded usage as: 1771 SMOLLETT Humph. Cl. (1895) 238 \"He stole away an Irishman's bride, and took a French leave of me and his master\".\n\nIn Canada and the United States, the expression \"Irish goodbye\" is also used.\n\nThe term is especially used to mean the act of leisurely absence from a military unit. This comes from the rich history of Franco-English conflict; as Spain has a similar saying concerning the French (\"despedida a la francesa\"), it may have come from the Napoleonic campaign in the Iberian Peninsula which pitted the French against an Anglo-Portuguese and Spanish alliance.\n\n"}
{"id": "1884674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884674", "title": "Reef Karim", "text": "Reef Karim\n\nReef Karim is a television personality, international speaker, author, and neuroscientist. He is best known as the host of the Court TV television show \"House of Clues\", the host of the Discovery Fit & Health television show Broken Minds, a recurring guest expert on the television show \"Outrageous Acts of Psych\", from Discovery Science., and the comedic host, writer and producer of Karim Madness.\n\nKarim has appeared on \"Oprah\", \"Dr. Oz\", \"Dr. Phil\", \"The Today Show\", \"Chelsea Lately\", and regularly appears on CNN as a medical and psychiatric commentator. He has written articles for the Huffington Post, Oprah.com, and Fox.com. He has also had minor roles in television shows like \"Lost Transmissions\" (2019) and \"Veep\" (2017).\n\nIn 2004, Karim was named one of \"The Sexiest Men Alive\" by \"People\" magazine.\n\nKarim earned a B.S. degree from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. In 1996, he graduated \"cum laude\" with a D.O. from Kansas City University of Medicine and Biosciences. He subsequently completed a joint internship in internal medicine/psychiatry/neurology, a residency in psychiatry, and a fellowship in addiction medicine, all at UCLA. Karim also completed the professional program in television and feature film writing at the UCLA School of Theater, Film and Television.\n\nKarim is an Assistant Clinical Professor of Psychiatry at the UCLA Semel Institute for Neuroscience and Senior Attending Physician at the Ronald Reagan UCLA Medical Center. He is also the founder and medical director of The Control Center, an integrated outpatient addiction treatment center in Beverly Hills, California.\n\nKarim is a well known guest expert, actor and writer in the media. He has co-authored a dating book titled \"Why Does he do that? Why does she do that?\". He is a contributor for the Huffington Post, and his work has been profiled in Forbes and the Christian Science Monitor.\n\nAs an actor, Karim played the lead in the Indie movie \"Flavors\", with supporting roles in \"Lost Transmissions\" (2019) (with Simon Pegg), \"Laurel Canyon\" (2002) (with Christian Bale), \"Veep\" (2017) (with Julia Louis Dreyfus), \"Lords of Dogtown\" (2005) (with Heath Ledger), \"Claire's Cambodia' and appeared in The Breakup Girl\"(2015)\", Fit to Be Tied\"(2014),\" Posey\"(2012), Goodbye My Friend(2011)\", The Whisperers\"(2009)\", Night of Henna\"(2005),\" Russians in the City of Angels\"(2003)\", and Flavors\"(2004).He has also hosted multiple television shows, including\" Outrageous Acts of Psych, Broken Minds\"and\" House of Clues. \"Karim has also appeared on \"The Oprah Winfrey Show, The Dr. Oz Show, Dr. Phil, Hollywood Today, ABC World News Tonight, Larry King Live\"and\" Anderson Cooper 360°.\"\n\nOn May 26, 2012, Karim was a guest panelist at Psychology In Action and UCLA's \"Psychology On The Big Screen,\" for his work as psychiatric consultant on the films \"Thirteen\", \"The Bourne Identity\", and the television shows \"Private Practice\" and \"Alias\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1884675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884675", "title": "Max Koegel", "text": "Max Koegel\n\nOtto Max Koegel (16 October 1895 – 27 June 1946) was a Nazi officer who served as a commander at Lichtenburg, Ravensbrück, Majdanek and Flossenbürg concentration camps.\n\nMax Koegel was born on 16 October 1895 in Füssen, in the Kingdom of Bavaria. He was the fourth son of a carpenter who worked at a local furniture factory. Shortly before his sixth birthday, Koegel's mother died from complications during childbirth. In 1907, his father died and Max was sent to live with a family at a nearby farm. He also had to leave school and began training as a shepherd and later worked as a mountain guide.\n\nWhen the First World War broke out, Koegel volunteered to join the Bavarian infantry. He served in the military until 12 January 1919 and reached the rank of corporal. He was wounded three times, including once during the Battle of Verdun, and received the Iron Cross second class.\n\nAfter the war, Koegel returned to Bavaria and worked as a customs clerk in Garmisch-Partenkirchen. In 1920, he left the civil service and opened a souvenir shop. However, four years later he filed for bankruptcy after he was charged with fraud, for which he received a suspended sentence. He went on to travel for work in Switzerland and Austria before returning to Füssen, where he obtained a job in his father's old furniture factory. At that time, he joined the Völkischer Bund and Bund Oberland, both extreme nationalist and anti-Semitic organisations. In 1929, Koegel's eight-year-old son died from measles and a short time later, his marriage of ten years ended in divorce. Koegel became a member of the NSDAP (#1179781) on 2 May 1932, and of the SS (#37644) in June 1932.\n\nKoegel became adjutant to the Dachau concentration camp commander in 1937. From 1938 to 1942 he was first \"Direktor\" (managing director) and then commander of the labour camp for women in Lichtenburg at Ravensbrück at the rank of Sturmbannführer (Major). In 1942 he was commander of the extermination camp Majdanek and was involved in the installation of gas chambers at this site. From 1943 to 1945 he was commander at Flossenbürg concentration camp.\n\nAfter the war, Koegel went on the run and was not arrested until June 1946 in Schwabach, near Nuremberg. He committed suicide by hanging in his prison cell only a day later on 27 June 1946.\n\n"}
{"id": "1884678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884678", "title": "CD4", "text": "CD4\n\nIn molecular biology, CD4 (cluster of differentiation 4) is a glycoprotein found on the surface of immune cells such as T helper cells, monocytes, macrophages, and dendritic cells. It was discovered in the late 1970s and was originally known as leu-3 and T4 (after the OKT4 monoclonal antibody that reacted with it) before being named CD4 in 1984. In humans, the CD4 protein is encoded by the \"CD4\" gene.\n\nCD4+ T helper cells are white blood cells that are an essential part of the human immune system. They are often referred to as CD4 cells, T-helper cells or T4 cells. They are called helper cells because one of their main roles is to send signals to other types of immune cells, including CD8 killer cells, which then destroy the infectious particle. If CD4 cells become depleted, for example in untreated HIV infection, or following immune suppression prior to a transplant, the body is left vulnerable to a wide range of infections that it would otherwise have been able to fight.\n\nLike many cell surface receptors/markers, CD4 is a member of the immunoglobulin superfamily.\n\nIt has four immunoglobulin domains (D to D) that are exposed on the extracellular surface of the cell:\n\nThe immunoglobulin variable (IgV) domain of D adopts an immunoglobulin-like β-sandwich fold with seven β-strands in 2 β-sheets, in a Greek key topology.\n\nCD4 interacts with the β-domain of MHC class II molecules through its D domain. T cells displaying CD4 molecules (and not CD8) on their surface, therefore, are specific for antigens presented by MHC II and not by MHC class I (they are \"MHC class II-restricted\"). MHC class I contains Beta-2 microglobulin.\n\nThe short cytoplasmic/intracellular tail (C) of CD4 contains a special sequence of amino acids that allow it to recruit and interact with the tyrosine kinase Lck.\n\nCD4 is a co-receptor of the T cell receptor (TCR) and assists the latter in communicating with antigen-presenting cells. The TCR complex and CD4 bind to distinct regions of the antigen-presenting MHC class II molecule. The extracellular D domain of CD4 binds to the β2 region of MHC class II. The resulting close proximity between the TCR complex and CD4 allows the tyrosine kinase Lck bound to the cytoplasmic tail of CD4 to phosphorylate tyrosine residues of immunoreceptor tyrosine activation motifs (ITAMs) on the cytoplasmic domains of CD3 to amplify the signal generated by the TCR. Phosphorylated ITAMs on CD3 recruit and activate SH2 domain-containing protein tyrosine kinases (PTK), such as ZAP70, to further mediate downstream signalling through tyrosine phosphorylation. These signals lead to the activation of transcription factors, including NF-κB, NFAT, AP-1, to promote T cell activation.\n\nCD4 has also been shown to interact with SPG21, and Uncoordinated-119 (Unc-119).\n\nHIV-1 uses CD4 to gain entry into host T-cells and achieves this through its viral envelope protein known as gp120. The binding to CD4 creates a shift in the conformation of gp120 allowing HIV-1 to bind to a co-receptor expressed on the host cell. These co-receptors are chemokine receptors CCR5 or CXCR4. Following a structural change in another viral protein (gp41), HIV inserts a fusion peptide into the host cell that allows the outer membrane of the virus to fuse with the cell membrane.\n\nHIV infection leads to a progressive reduction in the number of T cells expressing CD4. Medical professionals refer to the CD4 count to decide when to begin treatment during HIV infection, although recent medical guidelines have changed to recommend treatment at all CD4 counts as soon as HIV is diagnosed. A CD4 count measures the number of T cells expressing CD4. While CD4 counts are not a direct HIV test—e.g. they do not check the presence of viral DNA, or specific antibodies against HIV—they are used to assess the immune system of a patient.\n\nNational Institutes of Health guidelines recommend treatment of any HIV-positive individuals, regardless of CD4 count Normal blood values are usually expressed as the number of cells per microliter (μL, or equivalently, cubic millimeter, mm) of blood, with normal values for CD4 cells being 500–1200 cells/mm. Patients often undergo treatments when the CD4 counts reach a level of 350 cells per microliter in Europe but usually around 500/μL in the US; people with less than 200 cells per microliter are at high risk of contracting AIDS defined illnesses. Medical professionals also refer to CD4 tests to determine efficacy of treatment.\n\nViral load testing provides more information about the efficacy for therapy than CD4 counts. For the first 2 years of HIV therapy, CD4 counts may be done every 3–6 months. If a patient's viral load becomes undetectable after 2 years then CD4 counts might not be needed if they are consistently above 500/mm. If the count remains at 300–500/mm, then the tests can be done annually. It is not necessary to schedule CD4 counts with viral load tests and the two should be done independently when each is indicated.\n\nCD4 continues to be expressed in most neoplasms derived from T helper cells. It is therefore possible to use CD4 immunohistochemistry on tissue biopsy samples to identify most forms of peripheral T cell lymphoma and related malignant conditions. The antigen has also been associated with a number of autoimmune diseases such as vitiligo and type I diabetes mellitus.\n\nT-cells play a large part in autoinflammatory diseases. When testing a drug's efficacy or studying diseases, it is helpful to quantify the amount of T-cells\n\non fresh-frozen tissue with CD4+, CD8+, and CD3+ T-cell markers (which stain different markers on a T-cell - giving different results).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1884681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884681", "title": "Albrechtsburg", "text": "Albrechtsburg\n\nThe Albrechtsburg is a Late Gothic castle located in the town centre of Meissen in the German state of Saxony. It is situated on a hill above the river Elbe, adjacent to the Meissen Cathedral.\n\nIn 929 King Henry I of Germany subdued the Slavic Glomacze tribe at the Siege of Gana and built a fortress within their settlement area, situated on a rock high above the Elbe river. This castle, called \"Misnia\" after a nearby creek, became the nucleus of the town and from 965 the residence of the Margraves of Meissen, who in 1423 acquired the Electorate of Saxony.\n\nFrom 1464, Elector Ernest of Saxony ruled jointly with his younger brother Albert the Bold and both had the present-day castle built on 1471. The work of court builder Arnold of Westphalia was constructed solely as a residence, not as a military fortress (the first German castle built for such a purpose). When the brothers divided the Wettin lands by the 1485 Treaty of Leipzig, the castle of Meissen was given to Albert. Though Albert's son Duke George the Bearded resided at the Albrechtsburg, it was soon superseded by Dresden Castle as the new seat of the Wettin Albertinian line.\n\nIn 1710 King Augustus II the Strong established the \"Royal-Polish and Electoral-Saxon Porcelain Manufactory\" (\"Königlich-Polnische und Kurfürstlich-Sächsische Porzellan-Manufaktur\"), which was the first European hard-paste porcelain manufacture, at the castle under the supervision of Johann Friedrich Böttger. Meissen porcelain was produced at the Albrechtsburg until manufacturing moved to its present location in 1863.\n\n"}
{"id": "1884686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884686", "title": "Le Journal de Québec", "text": "Le Journal de Québec\n\nLe Journal de Québec is a French-language daily newspaper in Quebec City, Quebec, Canada. The newspaper is printed in tabloid format and has the highest circulation for a Quebec City newspaper, with its closest competitor being \"Le Soleil\".\n\nLe Journal was founded March 6, 1967, by Pierre Péladeau, founder of Quebecor. Like its sister paper, the much more widely read \"Le Journal de Montréal\", it was established by Pierre Péladeau and is owned by Quebecor Média.\n\nA lockout of unionized employees (members of the Canadian Union of Public Employees) that began in April 2007 continued until July 2008, it was the longest running lockout in the history of the Québec media at the time.\n\nAs an answer to the lockout, the workers launched their own free daily newspaper, MédiaMatin Québec.\n\nOn November 27, 2012, \"Le Journal de Québec\" launched a special edition for the Saguenay–Lac-Saint-Jean region, which includes several pages of local news for the region. The paper previously published a special Saguenay–Lac-Saint-Jean edition from 1973 to 1981.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1884689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884689", "title": "Trimethylsilyl", "text": "Trimethylsilyl\n\nA trimethylsilyl group (abbreviated TMS) is a functional group in organic chemistry. This group consists of three methyl groups bonded to a silicon atom [−Si(CH)], which is in turn bonded to the rest of a molecule. This structural group is characterized by chemical inertness and a large molecular volume, which makes it useful in a number of applications.\n\nA trimethylsilyl group bonded to a methyl group forms tetramethylsilane, which is abbreviated as TMS as well.\n\nCompounds with trimethylsilyl groups are not normally found in nature. Chemists sometimes use a trimethylsilylating reagent to derivatize rather non-volatile compounds such as certain alcohols, phenols, or carboxylic acids by substituting a trimethylsilyl group for a hydrogen in the hydroxyl groups on the compounds. This way trimethylsiloxy groups [−O-Si(CH)] are formed on the molecule. A couple of examples of trimethylsilylating agents include trimethylsilyl chloride and bis(trimethylsilyl)acetamide. Trimethylsilyl groups on a molecule have a tendency to make it more volatile, often making the compounds more amenable to analysis by gas chromatography or mass spectrometry. An example of such trimethylsilylation is mentioned in the Brassicasterol article. Such derivatizations are often done on a small scale in special vials.\n\nWhen attached to certain functional groups in a reactant molecule, trimethylsilyl groups may also be used as temporary protecting groups during chemical synthesis or some other chemical reactions.\n\nIn chromatography, derivitization of accessible silanol groups in a bonded stationary phase with trimethylsilyl groups is referred to as endcapping.\n\nIn an NMR spectrum, signals from atoms in trimethylsilyl groups in compounds will commonly have chemical shifts close to the tetramethylsilane reference peak at 0 ppm. Also compounds, such as high temperature silicone \"stopcock\" grease, which have polysiloxanes (often called silicones) in them will commonly show peaks from their methyl groups (attached to the silicon atoms) having NMR chemical shifts close to the tetramethylsilane standard peak, such as at 0.07 ppm in CDCl.\n\nOtherwise very reactive molecules can be isolated when enveloped by bulky trimethylsilyl groups. This effect can be observed in tetrahedranes.\n\nRelated to trimethylsilyl groups are so-called super silyl groups of which there exist two varieties: A silicon group connected to three trimethylsilyl groups makes a tri(trimethylsilyl)silyl group (TTMSS or TMSSi) and a silicon group connected to three tert-butyl groups. The TTMSS group was proposed in 1993 by Hans Bock. With a van der Waals volume of up to 7 cubic angstrom it surpasses the related TIPS group (around 2) and one potential application is its use as a temporary substituent promoting asymmetric induction for example in this diastereoselective one-pot reaction involving two sequential Mukaiyama aldol reactions:\n\nTTMSS can also stand for tris(trimethylsilyl)silane, which is comparable as a chemical reagent to tributyltin hydride without the associated toxicity concern of organotin and tributyltin compounds. The reagent is employed in radical reductions, hydrosilylation and consecutive radical reactions \n\nIn organic synthesis, TMS group is used as a protecting group for alcohols.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1884692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884692", "title": "Igor Kokoškov", "text": "Igor Kokoškov\n\nIgor Stefan Kokoškov ( ; ; born 17 December 1971) is a Serbian professional basketball coach who is currently an assistant coach for the Sacramento Kings of the National Basketball Association (NBA) and the head coach of the Serbia national team. He previously spent 18 years in the league as an assistant coach, with his most recent tenure there being with the Utah Jazz, before briefly being a head coach for the Phoenix Suns for a full season.\n\nKokoškov was the first European to be a full-time assistant coach in NCAA Division I college basketball, and the first non-American to hold such a position in the NBA. In 2004, he became the first non-American assistant coach to win an NBA championship, and the first to serve on an NBA All-Star Game coaching staff. He is also the first coach born and raised outside of North America to be hired as a head coach in the NBA.\n\nHe won EuroBasket 2017, while working as the head coach of the Slovenian men's national team.\n\nKokoškov, a graduate of the University of Belgrade, coached various club teams in Belgrade, and was on the coaching staff of the Yugoslav men's and junior national teams. At the age of 24, Kokoškov became the youngest coach in Yugoslavian basketball history, shortly after suffering serious injuries sustained during the 1990 automobile accident, which ended a promising basketball playing career.\n\nHis savvy, ambitious nature and command of the English language were factors when he was hired by the University of Missouri's Tigers, as a part of their full-time coaching staff in 1999, making him the first European to hold such a position in NCAA Division I men's college basketball.\n\nIn 2000, Kokoškov became the first non-American to be hired as a full-time assistant coach in the NBA, by the Los Angeles Clippers, under head coach Alvin Gentry. In 2003, he joined the Detroit Pistons staff of head coach Larry Brown. He won an NBA championship in 2004 with the Pistons. At the 2006 NBA All-Star Game he served on the Eastern Conference coaching staff.\n\nOn 20 June 2008, Kokoškov was named an assistant coach of the Phoenix Suns. On 29 May 2013, Kokoškov was named as assistant coach of the Cleveland Cavaliers. On 17 February 2015, Kokoškov was named as assistant coach for the Orlando Magic, until the end of the season.\n\nOn 1 July 2015, Kokoškov was hired by the Utah Jazz to be an assistant coach. On 5 December 2016, Kokoškov led Utah to a win over Los Angeles Lakers, 107–101. Jazz head coach Quin Snyder had fallen ill and missed their game against the Lakers. He would remain assistant coach for the Jazz until their run in the 2018 NBA Playoffs concluded, which ended on 8 May 2018 with a 112–102 loss to the Houston Rockets.\n\nOn 2 May 2018, Kokoškov was hired as the head coach of the Phoenix Suns, returning to the team he was previously with from 2008 to 2013. He became the first head coach born and raised outside of North America in NBA history, and officially took on the role on 14 May. In his official head coaching debut in the NBA on 17 October, Kokoškov led the Suns to a 121–100 victory over the Dallas Mavericks. However, they finished the season with a 19–63 record, tied for the second-worst record in the league. On 22 April 2019, the Suns fired Kokoškov.\n\nOn 13 June 2019, Kokoškov was named an assistant coach for the Sacramento Kings under new head coach Luke Walton's coaching staff.\n\nKokoškov was an assistant coach of the Serbia and Montenegro national team at the 2004 Summer Olympics and the 2005 EuroBasket, under renowned European head coach Željko Obradović.\n\nOn 18 April 2008, Kokoškov was named the head coach of the Georgia men's national basketball team. He coached Georgia at 2011 EuroBasket in Lithuania, 2013 EuroBasket in Slovenia and 2015 EuroBasket in Croatia/France. He left after EuroBasket 2015.\n\nOn 18 January 2016, the Basketball Federation of Slovenia named Kokoškov the new head coach of the Slovenian men's national team, for the next two years. Former Serbian coach Božidar Maljković recommended him for this position to Slovenian Federation Secretary-General Rasho Nesterović.\n\nHis contract with Slovenia's national team ended after the EuroBasket 2017 where Slovenia won the gold medal.\n\nOn 20 November 2019, the Basketball Federation of Serbia named Kokoškov the new head coach of the Serbia national team. He appointed Dejan Milojević, Vladimir Jovanović and Jovica Antonić as assistant coaches, as well as Bogdan Karaičić as scout. On 15 January 2020, the Denver Nuggets head coach Michael Malone was added to the coaching staff for the Olympic Qualifying Tournament.\n\nIn 1990, Kokoškov was part of a near-fatal car crash which shattered his knee and ended his basketball career.\n\nKokoškov and his wife, Patricia, were married in the summer of 2009. They have two children: a son and a daughter. On 18 June 2010, Kokoškov became an American citizen.\n\nGeorgian President Mikheil Saakashvili honored Kokoškov with an Order of Honour, the Georgia’s highest civilian honor, on 18 December 2011.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1884696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884696", "title": "Tim Henson", "text": "Tim Henson\n\nTimothy James Henson (born August 1, 1980 in Ashtabula, Ohio) is the host of Distorted View Daily, an adult comedy podcast that focuses on bizarre news stories and brief comedic sketches and songs. Henson is a full-time podcaster.\n\nHenson has distributed the show through a variety of media, including telephony company Tellme, and various Internet radio stations.\n\nIn 2005, the Columbus Dispatch profiled Henson on the occasion of his first Podcasting award. The article was written when Henson still had a \"day job\" and was not yet supporting himself entirely on proceeds from Distorted View subscribers.\n\n"}
{"id": "1884698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884698", "title": "Maria Ludwika Krasińska", "text": "Maria Ludwika Krasińska\n\nCountess Maria Ludwika Krasińska (1883–1958) was a Polish noblewoman, major heiress and landowner, and a significant art collector. Her art collection was the origin of the Krasinski Museum. \n\nMaria was married to Prince Adam Ludwik Czartoryski on August 31, 1901 in Warsaw. \n"}
{"id": "1884700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884700", "title": "Erwin Riess", "text": "Erwin Riess\n\nErwin Riess (born March 13, 1957), a disabled playwright and dramatist, was born in Vienna, Austria. He attended school in Krems, Austria and later returned to Vienna to study political and theatre science. In 1983 he was relegated to a wheelchair after the discovery of a back tumor. He has since been active in disability campaigns and humanitarian efforts to improve living conditions for disabled persons living in Austria.\n\nHe is a free-lance writer providing material for many magazines and newspapers and writing theatrical works, many of which have been performed internationally. Based on the life of Stephen Hawking, \"Hawking's Dream\" is arguably his most famous and well-received work.\n\n"}
{"id": "1884702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884702", "title": "Turbhe", "text": "Turbhe\n\nTurbhe is suburb of Navi Mumbai. \n\nTurbhe railway station is the fifth station on the Thane / Vashi and Thane / Panvel railway line, starting from Thane.\n\nThe NMMT has a depot at Turbhe.\n"}
{"id": "1884703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884703", "title": "Chester and Crewe Railway", "text": "Chester and Crewe Railway\n\nThe Chester and Crewe Railway was an early British railway company absorbed by the Grand Junction Railway in 1840. The line was in length, the engineer was Robert Stephenson and the contractor for the work was Thomas Brassey. It was the absorption of this company that led the Grand Junction Railway to building its locomotive works at Crewe, which led to Crewe becoming a major railway town.\n"}
{"id": "1884704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884704", "title": "Elias Zerhouni", "text": "Elias Zerhouni\n\nElias Zerhouni (in Arabic إلياس زرهوني) (born April 12, 1951) is an Algerian scientist, radiologist and biomedical engineer.\n\nHe spent much of his career on the faculty of the Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, serving as its executive vice-dean from 1995 to 2002. He was the 15th Director of the National Institutes of Health from 2002 to 2008, under the George W. Bush administration. In 2009, under the Obama administration he served as one of the country's first presidential science envoys to foster scientific and technologic collaboration with other nations. He also served as a senior fellow for the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation from 2009 through 2010. From 2011 until his retirement in April 2018, he was the President for Global Research and Development at the pharmaceutical company Sanofi.\n\nA resident of Pasadena, Maryland, Zerhouni was born in Nedroma, Algeria. Having earned his M.D. degree at the University of Algiers, School of Medicine in 1975, Zerhouni emigrated to the United States to take up a residency position in diagnostic radiology at Johns Hopkins School of Medicine. He went on to positions of increasing responsibility, including Chief Resident and Assistant professor. He then served as vice chair of the Department of Radiology at Eastern Virginia Medical School and its affiliated DePaul Hospital from 1981 to 1985. In 1985, Zerhouni returned to Johns Hopkins as an associate professor. He was appointed Director of the MRI Division in 1988, subsequently becoming chair of the Russell H. Morgan Department of Radiology and Radiological Science, Martin Donner Professor of Radiology and Professor of Biomedical Engineering. Ultimately, Zerhouni was appointed as Executive Vice-Dean of the Johns Hopkins School of Medicine in 1996 and served as Dean of Research and Dean for Clinical Affairs until 2002 at which time he moved to the Directorship of the NIH.\n\nZerhouni is a highly published scientist in his field, inventor, and entrepreneur. His work led to advances in Computed Tomography (CAT scanning) and Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) that resulted in over 200 peer reviewed publications and 8 patents. Partly based on this research and research and subsequent inventions, Zerhouni founded or co-founded five start-up companies. He founded Computerized Imaging Reference Systems (CIRS) in 1982, where he served as Chairman for several years. He founded Advanced Medical Imaging in 1989, which was later sold to a major public company. He is a co-inventor and co-founder of Biopsys Corporation which became public before being acquired J&J in 1997. He co-founded American Radiology Services in 1996 and served as its Chairman and CEO until 2002. He is also a co-inventor and co-founder of Surgivision, Inc., an MRI image-guided surgery company.\n\nZerhouni was appointed Director of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) by President George W. Bush. Confirmed by the Senate in April 2002, he served until October 2008. As director, Zerhouni convened a series of meetings to chart a \"Roadmap for Medical Research\" in the 21st century to identify opportunities and gaps in biomedical research. Zerhouni also created the Research, Condition, and Disease Categorization Process (RCDC), an online system which reports NIH research investments visible to the public.\n\nDuring Zerhouni's tenure, the NIH Reform Act of 2006 was enacted by Congress. The Act codified the NIH Common Fund and new governance mechanisms for the agency, and codified a new NIH division, the Division of Program Coordination, Planning, and Strategic Initiatives (DPCPSI), to administrate the Common Fund. During his tenure at NIH, Zerhouni created the Neuroscience Blueprint, and revised the NIH peer review system.\n\nHe currently sits on the Board of the Foundation for the National Institutes of Health.\n\nIn 2009, under the Obama administration, he served as one of the country's first presidential science envoys to foster scientific and technologic collaboration with other nations. He also served as a senior fellow for the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation from 2009 through 2010.\n\nZerhouni has served as a science advisor reviewing several national research programs for France, Canada, Australia, Qatar, among others. In 2008, he was asked by the French minister of Health and the French Minister of Research and Higher Education to lead a Committee that led to the creation of the AVIESAN in 2009.\n\nSanofi, a global pharmaceutical company, named Dr. Zerhouni as the Global Head of Research and Development in 2011.\n\nZerhouni has advised many world leaders and has won various awards. In 1985, he was a consultant to the White House under President Ronald Reagan. In 1988, he was a consultant to the World Health Organization. In 2000, Zerhouni was elected to the National Academy of Sciences' Institute of Medicine and in 2013 was elected to the National Academy of Engineering, one of only a handful of scientists which have been elected to both august bodies. He received the Légion d'honneur from the French National Order and President Nicolas Sarkozy in 2008. Zerhouni has also served on the National Cancer Institute's Board of Scientific Advisors prior to his becoming NIH director. He has won several awards for his research including a Gold Medal from the American Roentgen Ray Society and the Radiological Society of North American and two Paul Lauterbur Awards for MRI research. Zerhouni received the honorary title \"Doctor Emeritus\" from the University of Algiers in 2005. Since leaving the NIH, Zerhouni has been appointed to the boards of the Lasker Foundation, Research!America, and the Mayo Clinic. He joined the board of trustees for King Abdullah University of Science and Technology (KAUST) when the school opened in September 2009. He was also named by the Maryland Governor to the chairmanship of the Maryland Economic Development Commission. In 2010, Zerhouni received an honorary degree from Johns Hopkins University and the Woodrow Wilson award for service to the university and the nation. He is a recipient of the Ben Franklin Medal. Zerhouni was the founding Chief Scientific Advisor of \"Science -Translational Medicine\", a sister publication of Science Magazine of the American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS). He served on the boards of Actelion Pharmaceuticals, a Swiss biotechnology company and Danaher, a US company comprising a family of more than 20 global operating companies in the fields of life sciences and the environment. He was appointed as Chair of Innovation at the College de France in 2011 and elected to membership at the French Academy of Medicine in 2010.\n\n"}
{"id": "1884712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884712", "title": "Dark City (1998 film)", "text": "Dark City (1998 film)\n\nDark City is a 1998 neo-noir science fiction film directed by Alex Proyas and starring Rufus Sewell, Kiefer Sutherland, Jennifer Connelly, Richard O'Brien, and William Hurt. The screenplay was written by Proyas, Lem Dobbs, and David S. Goyer. Sewell plays John Murdoch, an amnesiac man who finds himself suspected of murder. Murdoch attempts to discover his true identity and clear his name while on the run from the police and a mysterious group known only as the \"Strangers.\"\n\nThe majority of the film was shot at Fox Studios Australia. An American and Australian production, it was jointly produced by New Line Cinema and Mystery Clock Cinema, and distributed by the former for theatrical release. The film premiered in the United States on 27 February 1998, and was nominated for a Hugo Award for the Best Dramatic Presentation and six Saturn Awards. For the theatrical release, the studio was concerned that the audience would not understand the film and asked Proyas to add an explanatory voice-over narration to the introduction. A director's cut was released in 2008, restoring and preserving Proyas' original artistic vision for the film. Some critics have noted its similarities and influence on the \"Matrix\" film series, whose first installment came out a year later.\n\nJohn Murdoch awakens in a hotel bathtub, suffering from amnesia. He receives a phone call from Dr. Daniel Schreber, who urges him to flee the hotel to evade a group of men who are after him. In the room, Murdoch discovers the corpse of a ritualistically murdered woman along with a bloody knife. He flees the scene, just as the group of pale men in trenchcoats (later identified as \"the Strangers\") arrive.\n\nFollowing clues, Murdoch learns his own name and finds out he has a wife named Emma; he is also sought by Police Inspector Frank Bumstead as a suspect in a series of murders committed around the city, though he cannot remember killing anybody. Pursued by the Strangers, Murdoch discovers that he has psychokinesis—which the Strangers also possess, and refer to as \"tuning\": the ability to alter reality at will. He manages to use these powers to escape from them.\n\nMurdoch explores the anachronistic city, where nobody seems to realize it is always night. At midnight, he watches as everyone except himself falls asleep as the Strangers physically rearrange the city as well as change people's identities and memories. Murdoch learns that he came from a coastal town called Shell Beach: a town familiar to everyone, though nobody knows how to get there, and all of his attempts to do so are unsuccessful for varying reasons. Meanwhile, the Strangers inject one of their men, Mr. Hand, with memories intended for Murdoch in an attempt to predict his movements and track him down.\n\nMurdoch is eventually caught by Inspector Bumstead, who acknowledges that Murdoch is most likely innocent, and by then has his own misgivings about the nature of the city. They confront Schreber, who explains that the Strangers are extraterrestrials who use corpses as their hosts. Having a hive mind, the Strangers are experimenting with humans to analyze their individuality in the hopes that some insight might be revealed that will help their race survive.\n\nSchreber reveals that Murdoch is an anomaly who inadvertently awoke when Schreber was in the middle of imprinting his latest identity as a murderer. The three embark to find Shell Beach, but it exists only as a poster on a wall at the edge of the city. Frustrated, Murdoch and Bumstead break through the wall, revealing outer space. The men are confronted by the Strangers, including Mr. Hand, who holds Emma hostage. In the ensuing fight, Bumstead and one of the Strangers fall through the hole into space, revealing the city as a deep space habitat surrounded by a force field.\n\nThe Strangers bring Murdoch to their home beneath the city and force Schreber to imprint Murdoch with their collective memory, believing Murdoch to be the culmination of their experiments. Schreber betrays them by instead inserting false memories in Murdoch which artificially reestablish his childhood as years spent training and honing his tuning skills and learning about the Strangers and their machines. Murdoch awakens, fully realizing his skills. He frees himself and battles with the Strangers, defeating their leader Mr. Book in a psychokinetic fight high above the city.\n\nAfter learning from Schreber that Emma has been re-imprinted and cannot be restored, Murdoch exercises his new-found powers, amplified by the Strangers' machine, to create an actual Shell Beach by flooding the area within the force field with water and forming mountains and beaches. On his way to Shell Beach, Murdoch encounters a dying Mr. Hand and informs him that they have been searching in the wrong place—the mind—to understand humanity. Murdoch turns the habitat toward the star it had been turned away from, and the city experiences sunlight for the first time.\n\nHe opens a door leading out of the city, and steps out to view the sunrise. Beyond him is a pier, where he finds the woman he knew as Emma, now with new memories and a new identity as Anna. Murdoch reintroduces himself as they walk to Shell Beach, beginning their relationship anew.\n\nAlex Proyas based the Strangers on Richard O'Brien's character in \"The Rocky Horror Show\", Riff Raff. Proyas said, \"I had Richard in mind physically when I wrote the character, because I had these strange, bald-looking men with an ethereal, androgynous quality.\" When Proyas visited London to cast for the film, he met with O'Brien and found him suitable for the role.\n\nKiefer Sutherland's character Daniel P. Schreber is named after Daniel Paul Schreber, a German judge who suffered from narcissistic, paranoid psychosis and possibly schizophrenia and whose autobiographical \"Memoirs of My Nervous Illness\" (\"Denkwürdigkeiten eines Nervenkranken\") the film's plot alludes to at various instances. Hurt was originally asked to play Dr. Schreber.\n\n Theologian Gerard Loughlin interprets \"Dark City\" as a retelling of Plato's Allegory of the Cave. For Loughlin, the city dwellers are prisoners who do not realize they are in a prison. John Murdoch's escape from the prison parallels the escape from the cave in the allegory. He is assisted by Dr. Schreber, who explains the city's mechanism as Socrates explains to Glaucon how the shadows in the cave are cast. Murdoch however becomes more than Glaucon; Loughlin writes, \"He is a Glaucon who comes to realize that Socrates' tale of an upper, more real world, is itself a shadow, a forgery.\" Murdoch defeats the Strangers who control the inhabitants and remakes the world based on childhood memories, which were themselves illusions arranged by the Strangers. Loughlin writes of the lack of background, \"The origin of the city is off-stage, unknown and unknowable.\" Murdoch now casts new shadows for the city inhabitants, who must trust his judgment. Unlike Plato, Murdoch \"is disabused of any hope of an outside\" and becomes the demiurge for the cave, the only environment he knows.\n\nThe city in \"Dark City\" is described by Higley as a \"murky, nightmarish German expressionist film noir depiction of urban repression and mechanism\". The city has a World War II dreariness reminiscent of Edward Hopper's works and has details from different eras and architectures that are changed by the Strangers; \"buildings collapse as others emerge and battle with one another at the end\". The round window in \"Dark City\" is concave like a fishbowl and is a frequently seen element throughout the city. The inhabitants do not live at the top of the city; the main characters' homes are dwarfed by the bricolage of buildings.\n\nThe film also contains motifs from Greek mythology, in which gods manipulate humans in a higher agenda. Proyas said, \"I do like Greek mythology and have read a little of it, so maybe some of it has crept into the work, though I don't completely agree with that point of view.\"\n\nProyas referenced film noir of the 1940s and the 1950s (such as \"The Maltese Falcon\") as an influence for the film. It has additionally been described as Kafkaesque, and Proyas cited the TV series \"The Twilight Zone\" as a conscious influence. Proyas wanted the film, though nominally science fiction, to have an element of horror to unsettle the audience.\n\nProyas co-wrote the screenplay with Lem Dobbs and David S. Goyer. Goyer had written \"\", the sequel to Proyas's 1994 film \"The Crow\"; Proyas invited Goyer to co-write the screenplay for \"Dark City\" after reading Goyer's screenplay for \"Blade\", which had yet to be released. Writers Guild of America initially protested at crediting more than two screenwriters for a film, but it eventually relented and credited all three writers. Proyas originally conceived a story about a 1940s detective who is obsessed with facts and cannot solve a case where the facts do not make sense. \"He slowly starts to go insane through the story,\" says Proyas. \"He can't put the facts together because they don't add up to anything rational.\" In the process of creating the fictional world for the character of the detective, Proyas created other characters, shifting the focus of the film from the detective (Bumstead) to the person pursued by the detective (Murdoch). Proyas envisioned a robust narrative where the audience could examine the film from the perspective of multiple characters and focus on the plot.\n\nWhen Proyas finished his preceding film \"The Crow\" in 1994, he approached production designer Patrick Tatopoulos to draw concepts for the world in which \"Dark City\" takes place. The city was entirely constructed on a set; no practical locations were used in the film. Tatopoulos described the city:\n\nThe movie takes place everywhere, and it takes place nowhere. It's a city built of pieces of cities. A corner from one place, another from some place else. So, you don't really know where you are. A piece will look like a street in London, but a portion of the architecture looks like New York, but the bottom of the architecture looks again like a European city. You're there, but you don't know where you are. It's like every time you travel, you'll be lost.\n\nThe production design included themes of darkness, spirals, and clocks. There appears to be no sun in the city's world, and spiral designs that shrink when approached were used in the film. A major clock in the film shows no hours; Tatopoulos said, \"But in a magical moment it becomes something more than just a clock.\" The production designer created the city architecture to have an organic presence with the structural elements.\n\nThe Strangers are energy beings who reside in dead human bodies. When design first started, the filmmakers considered having the Strangers be bugs underneath but decided that the bug appearance was overused. Tatopoulos said Proyas wanted to make the Strangers energy beings, \"Alex called me and said he wanted something like an energy that kept re-powering itself, re-creating itself, re-shaping itself, sitting inside a dry piece of human shape.\" The Strangers reside in a large underground amphitheater for their lair, where a human bust hides a large clock and a spiraling device changes the layout of the city above. The set for the lair was in height, where an average set is . The lair set was built on a fairground in Sydney, Australia. The film's budget was $30–40 million, so the crew used inexpensive techniques to design the set, such as stretching canvas onto welded metal frames. The lair also had a rail conveyance that appeared expensive. Tatopoulos said, \"We had, obviously, a car built, but we had just one built. We laid some rail for it to ride on. We made a section of corridor that we kept driving through all the time, and you end up believing this thing is running along forever.\" Proyas originally wanted the rail car to roll by various rooms, which was not feasible for the budget, so Tatopoulos and the crew used \"replaceable elements and strong design textures\" to mimic the impression of various rooms.\n\nThe film soundtrack was released on 24 February 1998 by TVT Records label. It features music from the original score by Trevor Jones, and versions of the songs \"Sway\" and \"The Night Has a Thousand Eyes\" performed by singer Anita Kelsey. It also includes music by Hughes Hall from the trailer, a song by Echo & the Bunnymen that played over the final credits, as well as songs by Gary Numan and Course of Empire that did not appear in the film. The music for the film was edited by Simon Leadley and Jim Harrison.\n\nThe film's style is often compared to that of the works of Terry Gilliam (especially \"Brazil\"). Some stylistic similarities have also been noted to Jean-Pierre Jeunet and Marc Caro's 1995 film \"The City of Lost Children\", another film inspired particularly by Gilliam (Gilliam had presented Jeunet's and Caro's previous film \"Delicatessen\" in North America, another film by Jeunet and Caro that was a deliberate homage to Gilliam's style).\n\n\"The Matrix\" was released one year after \"Dark City\" and was also filmed at Fox Studios in Sydney using some of the same sets. Comparisons have been made between scenes from the movies, making note of similarities in both cinematography and atmosphere, as well as the plot.\n\nFritz Lang's 1927 movie \"Metropolis\" was a major influence on the film, showing through the architecture, concepts of the baseness of humans within a metropolis, and general tone. In one of the documentary shorts featured on the director's cut, the influence of the early German films \"M\" and \"Nosferatu\" are mentioned.\n\nOne of the last scenes of the movie, in which buildings \"restore\" themselves, is similar to the last panel of the \"Akira\" manga. Proyas called the end battle a \"homage to Otomo's \"Akira\"\". \"Dark City\" has also drawn comparisons to the anime films \"\" (1984) and \"Megazone 23\" (1985), and the 1993 video game \"Gadget Invention, Travel, & Adventure\".\n\nWhen Christopher Nolan first started thinking about writing the script for \"Inception\", he was influenced by \"that era of movies where you had \"The Matrix\", you had \"Dark City\", you had \"The Thirteenth Floor\" and, to a certain extent, you had \"Memento\", too. They were based in the principles that the world around you might not be real\".\n\n\"Dark City\" was titled \"Dark World\" and \"Dark Empire\" leading up to the film's release. New Line Cinema wanted the filmmakers to consider the alternate titles due to the release of similarly titled \"Mad City\" in the same time frame, but \"Dark City\" was ultimately kept as the final title. The film was originally scheduled to be released in theaters on 17 October 1997, and it was later scheduled for 9 January 1998. The film would premiere in theaters nationwide in the United States on 27 February 1998, screening at 1,754 cinemas.\n\nAmong mainstream critics in the U.S., the film received generally positive reviews. Review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes reports that 76% of 82 sampled critics gave the film a positive review, with an average score of 6.9/10 and the site's critical consensus stating: \"Stylishly gloomy, \"Dark City\" offers a polarizing whirl of arresting visuals and noirish action\". At Metacritic, which assigns a weighted average out of 100 to critics' reviews, the film received a score of 66 based on 23 reviews.\nRoger Ebert writing in the \"Chicago Sun-Times\" called it a \"great visionary achievement,\" while also exclaiming that it was \"a film so original and exciting, it stirred my imagination like \"Metropolis\" and \"2001: A Space Odyssey.\"\" In the \"San Francisco Chronicle\", Peter Stack wrote that the film was \"among the most memorable cinematic ventures in recent years\", and that \"maybe there's nothing wrong with a movie that is simply sensational to look at.\" He felt the film's \"twisting of reality and its daring look—layered and off-kilter grays, greens and blacks—make it click.\" In a mixed review, Walter Addiego of \"The San Francisco Examiner\" thought \"as a story, \"Dark City\" doesn't amount to much.\" He believed \"Dark City\" contained a \"complicated plot\" while also having important themes that were \"no more than window dressing\". But on a positive front, he wrote, \"what counts here is the show, the creation of a strange world by a filmmaker who clearly knows science fiction and fantasy, past and present, and wants to share his love for it.\"\n\nLeft unimpressed, Marc Savlov of \"The Austin Chronicle\" wrote, \"You really have to feel for Alex Proyas. This guy wears bad luck like the grimy trenchcoats of his protagonists, only his zipper's stuck and he can't seem to shake the damn thing off.\" In expressing his negativity, he believed \"\"Dark City\" looks like a million bucks (or rather, a million bucks gone to compost), but at its dark heart it's a tedious, bewildering affair, lovely to look at but with all the substance of a dissipating dream.\" Left equally disappointed was John Anderson of the \"Los Angeles Times\". Commenting on the directing, he thought \"If you had to guess, you might say that Proyas came out of the world of comic art himself, rather than music videos and advertising. \"Dark City\" is constructed like panels in a Batman book, each picture striving for maximum dread.\" He went on to say, Proyas was \"trying simultaneously to create a pure thriller and sci-fi nightmare along with his tongue-in-cheek critique of artifice. And this doesn't work out quite so well.\" Author TCh of \"Time Out\", felt the development of the Murdoch character was \"surprisingly engrossing\" and thought production wise, the \"art direction is always striking, and unlike most contemporary sci-fi, the movie does risk a cerebral approach, tapping a vein of postmodern paranoia.\"\n\nWriting for \"Time\", Richard Corliss said the film was \"as cool and distant as the planet the Strangers come from. But, Lord, is \"Dark City\" a wonder to see.\" James Berardinelli writing for \"ReelViews\", remarked that \"Visually, this film isn't just impressive, it's a tour de force.\" and noted that \"\"Dark City\" opens by immersing the audience in the midst of a fractured, nightmarish narrative.\" Berardinelli also said \"\"Dark City\" appears to be New York during the first half of this century, but, using a style that is part science fiction, part noir thriller, and part gothic horror, he has embellished it to create a surreal place unlike no other.\" Describing some pitfalls, Jeff Vice of the \"Deseret News\" said that \"when critics talk about films being 'style over substance,' they're definitely talking about movies like \"Dark City\", which looks good but leaves an unpleasant aftertaste.\" Vice however was quick to admit, \"The special effects and set designs are dazzling\", but ultimately believed \"Proyas makes a crucial error in treating the subject even more seriously than \"The Crow\", and the dialogue (co-written by Proyas and \"The Crow: City of Angels\" scriptwriter David S. Goyer) is unintentionally funny at times and often just plain dumb.\"\nAndrea Basora of \"Newsweek\", stated that director Proyas flooded the screen with \"cinematic and literary references ranging from Murnau and Lang to Kafka and Orwell, creating a unique yet utterly convincing world\". Similarly, David Sterritt wrote in the \"Christian Science Monitor\" that \"The story is dark and often violent, but it's told with a remarkable sense of visual energy and imagination.\" Additionally, Marshall Fine of \"USA Today\", found the film to be \"Fascinating, visionary filmmaking.\" and \"With its amber-tinged palette and its distinctively dystopian view of life, it may be the most unique-looking film we've seen in ages...[but] defies logic and makes frightening and unexpected leaps.\" Critic Stephen Holden of \"The New York Times\" wrote that the \"plot that \"Dark City\" builds on John's predicament is a confused affair\" and that the film's premise is \"unsettling enough to make you wonder if it could actually derail a seriously drug-addled mind.\"\n\nSteve Biodrowski of \"Cinefantastique\" found the production design and the cinematography overwhelming, but he considered the narrative engagement of Sewell's amnesiac character to be ultimately successful. Biodrowski writes, \"As the story progresses, the pieces of the puzzle fall into place, and we gradually realize that the film is not a murky muddle of visuals propping up a weak story. All the questions lead to answers, and the answers make sense within the fantasy framework.\" The reviewer compared \"Dark City\" to the director's preceding film \"The Crow\" in style but found \"Dark City\" to introduce new themes and to be a \"more thoroughly consistent\" film. Biodrowski concluded, \"\"Dark City\" may not provide profound answers, but it deals seriously with a profound idea, and does it in a way that is cathartic and even uplifting, without being contrived or condescending. As a technical achievement, it is superb, and that technique is put in the service of telling a story that would be difficult to realize any other way.\"\n\nThe film won and was nominated for several awards in 1998. Film critic Roger Ebert cited it as the best film of 1998. In 2005, he included it on his \"Great Movies\" list. Ebert used it in his teaching, and also appears on a commentary track for the original DVD and the 2006 Director's Cut. The film was screened out of competition at the 1998 Cannes Film Festival.\n\n\"Dark City\" premiered in cinemas on 27 February 1998 in wide release on 1,754 screens in the U.S., and grossed $5,576,953 on its opening weekend, placing 4th, far behind \"Titanic\" in 1st place with $19,633,056. The film's revenue dropped by 49.1% in its second week of release, earning $2,837,941, dropping to 9th, while \"Titanic\" remained in first place with $17,605,849. The film went on to earn $14,378,331 domestically in total ticket sales through a 4-week theatrical run. Internationally, the film took in an additional $12,821,985 in box office business for a combined worldwide total of $27,200,316. The film's cumulative gross ranked 105th for 1998.\n\nThe film was released in VHS video format on 2 March 1999. The region 1 code widescreen edition of the film was released on DVD in the United States on 29 July 1998. Special features for the DVD include two audio commentary tracks, one with film critic Roger Ebert, and one with director Alex Proyas, writers Lem Dobbs and David Goyer, and production designer Patrick Tatopoulos. The DVD also includes biographies, filmographies, comparisons to Fritz Lang's \"Metropolis\", set designs, and the theatrical trailer.\n\nA director's cut of \"Dark City\" was also officially released on DVD and Blu-ray Disc on 29 July 2008. The director's cut removes the opening narration, which Proyas felt explained too much of the plot, and restores it to its original location in the film. It also includes 15 minutes of additional footage, mostly consisting of extended scenes with additional establishing shots and dialogue. Expanded audio commentaries by Ebert, Proyas, Dobbs and Goyer are included, along with several new documentaries. The Blu-ray Disc additionally includes the original theatrical cut and the special features from the 1998 DVD release.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1884718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884718", "title": "District Council of Lower Eyre Peninsula", "text": "District Council of Lower Eyre Peninsula\n\nThe District Council of Lower Eyre Peninsula is a local government area located on Eyre Peninsula in South Australia. The district covers the southern tip of the peninsula, except for the small area taken up by the City of Port Lincoln.\n\nThe main council offices are in Cummins, with a branch office in Port Lincoln, even though Port Lincoln is actually in its own council area, not encompassed by the council.\n\nThe District Council of Lower Eyre Peninsula traces its history back to 1880 when a district council was first created for the Port Lincoln area. The District Council of Lincoln was established in on 1 July 1880. Its boundaries were exactly those of the Hundred of Lincoln and included Boston and Grantham islands. Council members, listed as \"Messrs. William Brooke Carlin, Gustave Möller, John Garrett, Henry Walter Owen, and Robert Duddlestone\", first met at the Pier Hotel in July of that year and William Carlin was elected chairman. The new district council was greatly expanded less than eight years later by the enactment of the \"District Councils Act 1887\" which saw the boundaries of the district extended to cover the entire County of Flinders (southern Eyre Peninsula up to a line north of Cummins) in January 1888. The boundaries were extended again in 1890 when it gained the hundreds of Kiana, Mitchell and Shannon to the north in the County of Musgrave.\n\nIn 1906, the north east of the district was removed to form the new District Council of Tumby Bay and, in 1921, Port Lincoln itself was severed to create the Corporate Town of Port Lincoln. The district regained an area from the Corporate Town in 1935 and, in 1936, the District Council of Lincoln controlled thirteen hundreds, amounting to approximately 1,300,000 acres; its population in that year was estimated at 1,486. The district boundaries underwent further alterations in 1981 and 1982. In 1988, it assumed its current name when the District Council of Lincoln was renamed the District Council of Lower Eyre Peninsula.\n\nThe area's economy is reliant mostly on agriculture, with cereal crops and sheep being prominent in the district, as in much of the Eyre Peninsula. Fishing and aquaculture are a large part of the economy also, with Coffin Bay Oysters gaining statewide recognition.\n\nThe district, particularly coastal towns such as Coffin Bay are ever popular with tourists, with fishing and a variety of other water based activities a major attraction. The Coffin Bay National Park is also a major attraction, as well as an area of natural habitat conservation.\n\nThe district has two major towns; Cummins and Coffin Bay, but the district covers a large area, including a large number of rural localities: Boston, Charlton Gully, Coomunga, Coulta, Duck Ponds, Edillilie, Farm Beach, Fountain, Green Patch, Hawson, Kapinnie, Karkoo, Kellidie Bay, Kiana, Lincoln National Park, Little Douglas, Louth Bay, Mitchell, Mount Drummond, Mount Dutton Bay, Mount Hope, North Shields, Pearlah, Point Boston, Poonindie, Sleaford, Tiatukia, Tootenilla, Tulka, Uley, Wangary, Wanilla, Whites Flat, Whites River, and Yeelanna, and part of Port Lincoln.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1884720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884720", "title": "Benzyl chloroformate", "text": "Benzyl chloroformate\n\nBenzyl chloroformate is the benzyl ester of chloroformic acid. Also known as benzyl chlorocarbonate it is an oily colorless liquid although impure samples appear yellow. It is also known for its pungent odor. In contact with water it degrades.\n\nIt is prepared in the lab by treating benzyl alcohol with phosgene. Phosgene is used in excess to minimise the production of the carbonate.\n\nThe “carboxybenzyl group” (Cbz, benzyloxycarbonyl) is commonly used in organic synthesis for the introduction of the carboxybenzyl (abbreviated Cbz or Z) protecting group for amines. It is a key protecting group for amines, suppressing its nucleophilic and basic properties.\n\nAlternatively, as in the Curtius rearrangement, carboxybenzyl can be generated by the reaction of an isocyanate with benzyl alcohol.\n\nCommon amine protection procedures include:\n\nThe method was first used by Max Bergmann and Leonidas Zervas in 1932 for the synthesis of peptides. The abbreviation Z is in honor of Zervas.\n\nHydrogenolysis in the presence of a variety of palladium-based catalysts is the usual method for deprotection. Palladium on charcoal is typical.\n\nAlternatively, strong Lewis acids have been used, provided that a trap is provided for the released benzyl carbocation. The protected amine can be deprotected by catalytic hydrogenation or treatment with HBr, yielding a terminal carbamic acid that then readily decarboxylates to yield the free amine. Typically hydrogen gas and activated palladium on carbon are used.\n"}
{"id": "1884726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884726", "title": "Lau v. Nichols", "text": "Lau v. Nichols\n\nLau v. Nichols, 414 U.S. 563 (1974), was a United States Supreme Court case in which the Court unanimously decided that the lack of supplemental language instruction in public school for students with limited English proficiency violated the Civil Rights Act of 1964. The court held that since non-English speakers were denied a meaningful education, the disparate impact caused by the school policy violated the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and the school district was demanded to provide students with \"appropriate relief\".\n\nIn 1971, the San Francisco school system desegregated based on the result of Supreme Court case \"Lee v. Johnson.\" 2856 Chinese students, who were not fluent in English, were integrated back into the San Francisco Unified School District (SFUSD). Only about 1000 of those students were provided supplemental English instruction. Of the other 1800-plus Chinese students who weren't fluent in English, many were placed in special education classes while some were forced to be in the same grade for years.\n\nEven though the Bilingual Education Act was passed by Congress in 1968 to address the needs of Limited English Speaking Abilities students, the funding was limited. School participation in those programs was also voluntary, and by 1972, \"only 100,391 students nationally, out of approximately 5,000,000 in need were enrolled in a Title VII-funded program.\"\n\nEdward H. Steinman, a public-interest lawyer, reached out to the parents of Kinney Kinmon Lau and other Chinese students with limited English proficiency. He encouraged them to challenge the school district, and they filed a class action suit against Alan H. Nichols, the president of the SFUSD at the time, and other officials in the school district. The students claimed that they were not receiving special help in school due to their inability to speak English, and they argued they were entitled to special help under the Fourteenth Amendment and the Civil Rights Act of 1964 because of equal protection and the ban on educational discrimination.\n\nThe District Court for the Northern District of California denied the relief and the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit affirmed the decision. The District Court argued that since a uniform policy was used for all students in SFUSD and that the district didn't intentionally discriminate against students with limited English proficiency, equal protection was provided and the Fourteenth Amendment was not violated. The Court of Appeals claimed that since the school district provided the same treatment for all students, even though some students were disadvantaged due to their limited fluency in English, the school district was not required to make up for the different starting points of students. The students appealed the Court of Appeal's decision to the Supreme Court.\n\nThe Supreme Court issued its decision on January 21, 1974, with the Court unanimously ruling in favor of Lau. Instead of examining the equal protection clause from the 14th Amendment, the Court relied on Section 601 of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. Since the school system received federal funding, it was required to provide equal opportunities and access to all students. The Court claimed that even though the school districts provided equal treatment for all students, it still imposed disparate impact on the non-English speaking students since they were not able to understand the class material as effectively as other students and therefore were deprived of having \"meaningful\" education. The Court also referenced the guideline established by the Office for Civil Rights (OCR) of the Department of Health, Education and Welfare in 1970, which stated that language could be used as a proxy of discrimination on national origin and that \"the district must take affirmative steps to rectify the language deficiency in order to open its instructional program to these students.\" The Supreme Court demanded the school district to make necessary changes to provide equal education to the non-English speakers, but it didn't state any specific remedies for the district to follow.\n\nJustice Potter Stewart, joined by Chief Justice Burger and Justice Blackmun, concurred with this decision as he stated that affirmative remedial efforts, suggested by the OCR, were constitutional and appropriate in this case as long as the efforts were \"reasonably related to the purposes of the enabling legislation.\" In his concurrence joined by Chief Justice Burger, Justice Blackmun also suggested that \"numbers are at the heart of this case\" and that if the case only involved a few students, rather than nearly 2,000, the decision would not be the same.\n\nLau remains an important decision in bilingual education history. In this case, the Supreme Court found the violation of Civil Rights Act of 1964 based on the discriminatory effect of the school policy regardless of the intent of the officials. It prohibited the \"sink and swim\" policy and set a precedent of finding disparate impact in violation of the Civil Rights Act. The decision was subsequently followed by the passing of Equal Educational Opportunities Act of 1974 in Congress, which specifically prohibited discrimination against faculty and student in public schools and required the school districts to take \"appropriate action\" to overcome the barriers to equal participation of all students. It increased funding to the Bilingual Education Act and made additional English instruction mandatory, which effectively extended the Lau ruling to all public schools. The Officer for Civil Rights then developed a remedial guideline in 1975, otherwise known as the Lau Remedies, that specified methods and approaches for the school districts to follow in order to provide a meaningful education to students with limited English proficiency. This led to the development of bilingual programs and additional English instructions in most public schools.\n\nHowever, there have been challenges to the Lau decision in recent decades. In the Supreme Court case \"Alexander v. Sandoval\", 532 U.S. 275 (2001), the Court claimed that private plaintiffs did not have the right of action to sue against disparate impact violation under Title VI and they must provide proofs of intentional discrimination. It implied that students can no longer sue schools for policies that cause disparate impact, which significantly weakened the foundation of the Lau decision.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1884732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884732", "title": "KIIS", "text": "KIIS\n\nKIIS may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1884741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884741", "title": "Baiyun District, Guangzhou", "text": "Baiyun District, Guangzhou\n\nBaiyun District is one of 11 urban districts of the prefecture-level city of Guangzhou, the capital of Guangdong Province, China. The district is located in the city's northern suburbs, and is named after the Baiyun Mountain (the \"White Cloud Mountain\"), one of the area's natural attractions.\n\nThere are currently 18 subdistricts and 4 towns.\n\nOn 19 December 2013 four new subdistricts (Yuncheng, Helong, Baiyunhu, & Shimen) were established from carving out of existing subdistricts.\n\nFor many years, Guangzhou's main airport, the (Former) Guangzhou Baiyun International Airport was located within Baiyun District. In 2004, the airport was relocated farther north from the city center. Although the new airport has retained the name Guangzhou Baiyun International Airport, most of it is actually located in the neighboring Huadu District, just north of its border with the Baiyun District.\n\nChina Southern Airlines is headquartered in the Baiyun District.\n\n9Air is headquartered in Xicheng Village, Renhe Town (人和镇), Baiyun District.\n\nBaiyun is currently service by five metro lines operated by Guangzhou Metro:\n\n\nGuangdong Prison Administrative Bureau is headquartered in the district.\n\nInternational schools in Baiyun District:\n\n"}
{"id": "1884743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884743", "title": "Davey Pattison", "text": "Davey Pattison\n\nDavey Pattison (born November 18, 1945 in Scotland) is a San Francisco Bay Area based rock vocalist. Pattison recorded his first music in 1969, and his career took off after arrival in the United States in 1979, on invitation from Bill Graham, to front the band Gamma, formed by Bay Area guitarist Ronnie Montrose.\n\n\"I'd given up all hope of finding a quality singer for Gamma until I heard Davey Pattison,\" according to Montrose. In 1986, Pattison began singing for the first time with guitarist Robin Trower.\n\nAfter several albums with Trower, Pattison rejoined Montrose in 1992. Since then, Pattison has performed as a solo artist and has also reunited with Trower for the Robin Trower Band's 2005 album, \"Another Days Blues\".\n\nIn 2004, Pattison joined with legendary guitar player Michael Schenker to form the Schenker Pattison Summit, along with Aynsley Dunbar, one of rock's most well known drummers and bassist Gunter Nezhoda to record \"The Endless Jam\". They followed up with \"The Endless Jam Continues\" in 2005 with Tim Bogert on bass.\n\nPattison toured during the summer of 2008 and fall of 2010 in Europe with the Robin Trower Band, and toured the United States with Trower in 2011.\n\nIn 2013 Pattison re-formed Gamma with drummer Dan Buch (Butch), Van Spragins on bass, Tommy Merry on guitar and Brad Barth on keyboards. Pattison is performing hits from Gamma, Robin Tower and Schenker Pattison Summit.\n\nPattison currently lives in California, in a small town near San Francisco.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1884746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884746", "title": "Cortex (botany)", "text": "Cortex (botany)\n\nA cortex is an outer layer of a stem or root in a plant, lying below the epidermis but outside the vascular bundles.\n\nThe cortex is composed mostly of large thin-walled parenchyma cells of the ground tissue system and shows little to no structural differentiation. The outer cortical cells often acquire irregularly thickened cell walls, and are called collenchyma cells. Some of the outer cortical cells may contain chloroplasts.Cortex forms layer of cells that constitute cork. It is responsible for the transportation of materials into the central cylinder of the root through diffusion and may also be used for food storage in the form of starch. The innermost layer of the cortex is the endodermis.\n\n"}
{"id": "1884747", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884747", "title": "Cortex (anatomy)", "text": "Cortex (anatomy)\n\nIn anatomy and zoology, the cortex (plural cortices) is the outermost (or superficial) layer of an organ. Organs with well-defined cortical layers include kidneys, adrenal glands, ovaries, the thymus, and portions of the brain, including the cerebral cortex, the best-known of all cortices.\n\nThe word is of Latin origin and means bark, rind, shell or husk.\n\n\nThe cerebral cortex is typically described as comprising three parts: the sensory, motor, and association areas. These sensory areas receive and process information from the senses. The senses of vision, audition, and touch are served by the primary visual cortex, primary auditory cortex and primary somatosensory cortex. The cerebellar cortex is the thin gray surface layer of the cerebellum, consisting of an outer molecular layer or stratum moleculare, a single layer of Purkinje cells (the ganglionic layer), and an inner granular layer or stratum granulosum. The cortex is the outer surface of the cerebrum and is composed of gray matter.\n\nThe motor areas are located in both hemispheres of the cerebral cortex. Two areas of the cortex are commonly referred to as motor: the primary motor cortex, which executes voluntary movements, and; the supplementary motor areas and premotor cortex, which \"select\" voluntary movements. In addition, motor functions have been attributed to: the posterior parietal cortex, which guides voluntary movements, and; the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, which decides which voluntary movements to make according to higher-order instructions, rules, and self-generated thoughts.\n"}
{"id": "1884748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884748", "title": "Cortex (archaeology)", "text": "Cortex (archaeology)\n\nIn lithic analysis in archaeology the cortex is the outer layer of rock formed on the exterior of raw materials by chemical and mechanical weathering processes. It is often recorded on the dorsal surface of flakes using a three class system: primary, secondary, and tertiary. The amount of cortex present on artifacts in an archaeological assemblage may indicate the extent of lithic reduction that has occurred. Primary, secondary, and tertiary designations for flakes are generally determined by relative amounts of cortex presented on the dorsal surface. Some archaeologists classify flakes with no cortex as tertiary, flakes with some cortex as secondary, and flakes with all cortex as primary, whereas others may distinctions at every third or half of the dorsal surface covered. Differences in how archaeologists classify the amount of cortex and the results of experimental archaeological tests demonstrating moderate correlation between amount of cortex and stage of reduction, have limited the validity of assumptions based on amount of cortex solely.\n"}
{"id": "1884752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884752", "title": "Siamese crocodile", "text": "Siamese crocodile\n\nThe Siamese crocodile (\"Crocodylus siamensis\") is a medium-sized freshwater crocodile native to Indonesia (Borneo and possibly Java), Brunei, East Malaysia, Laos, Cambodia, Myanmar, Thailand and Vietnam. The species is critically endangered and already extirpated from many regions. Its other common names include Siamese freshwater crocodile, Singapore small-grain, and soft-belly.\n\nThe Siamese crocodile is a medium-sized, freshwater crocodilian, with a relatively broad, smooth snout and an elevated, bony crest behind each eye. Overall, it is an olive-green colour, with some variation to dark-green. Young specimens measure and weigh , growing up to and a weight of as an adult. The largest female specimens can measure and weight Large male specimens can reach and in weight. Most adults do not exceed 3 m (10 ft) in length.\nSiamese crocodiles occur in a wide range of freshwater habitats, including slow-moving rivers and streams, lakes, seasonal oxbow lakes, marshes and swamplands.\n\nDespite conservation concerns, many aspects of \"C. siamensis\" life history in the wild remain unknown, particularly regarding its reproductive biology.\n\nAdults feed mainly on fish and snakes, but also eat amphibians and small mammals.\n\nVery little is known about the natural history of this species in the wild, but females build mound-nests constructed from scraped-up plant debris mixed with mud. In captivity, these crocodiles breed during the wet season (April to May), laying between 15 and 50 eggs, which are then guarded until they hatch. After incubation, the female will assist her young as they break out of their eggs and then carry the hatchlings to the water in her jaws.\n\nPure, unhybridised examples of this species are generally unaggressive towards humans, and there are only four confirmed attacks, none of them fatal. One was defending its young, another was probably defending itself, one was provoked, and the reason for the last is unclear. A fifth attack, in 1928, was fatal, but the victim was a child (i.e., closer to typical prey size than an adult) and the identity of the crocodile species is not entirely certain.\n\nThis crocodile is classified as critically endangered on the IUCN Red List, and is listed on Appendix I of CITES.\n\nIt is one of the most endangered crocodiles in the wild, although it is extensively bred in captivity.\n\nSiamese crocodiles are under threat from human disturbance and habitat occupation, which is forcing remaining populations to the edges of their former range. Extinct from 99% of its original range, the Siamese crocodile is considered one of the least studied and most critically endangered crocodilians in the world. Although few wild populations remain, more than 700,000 \"C. Siamese\" are held on commercial crocodile farms in Southeast Asia.\nIn 1992, it was believed to be extremely close to or fully extinct in the wild until 2000 when scientists from Fauna and Flora International and the Government of Cambodia's Forestry Administration confirmed the presence of Siamese crocodiles in the Cardamom Mountains in Southwest Cambodia. Since then, surveys have identified around 30 sites in Cambodia that contain wild Siamese crocodiles (conservatively estimated to number between 200 and 400 individuals in total), a tiny population in Thailand (possibly as few as two individuals, discounting recent reintroductions), a small population in Vietnam (possibly fewer than 100 individuals), Cat Tien National Park has about 200, and a more sizeable population in Laos. In March 2005, conservationists found a nest containing juvenile Siamese crocodiles in the southern Lao province of Savannakhet. There are no recent records from Malaysia, Burma or Brunei. A small but important population of the crocodiles is also known to live in East Kalimantan, Indonesia.\n\nFactors causing loss of habitat include: conversion of wetlands for agriculture, chemical fertilisers use, use of pesticides in rice production, and an increase in the population of cattle. The effects of warfare stemming from the conflicts in Vietnam, Laos, and Cambodia during the Vietnam War (from land mines to aerial bombardment) have also been factored.\n\nMany river systems, including those in protected areas, have hydroelectric power dams approved or proposed, which are likely to cause the loss of about half of the remaining breeding colonies within the next ten years. One cause for habitat degradation via hydrological changes, for the Siamese crocodile, is the implementation of dams on the upper Mekong River and its major tributaries. Potential impacts of dam construction include wetland loss and altered flooding cycle with a dry season flow 50% greater than under natural conditions.\n\nIllegal capture of wild crocodiles for supply to farms is an ongoing threat, as well as incidental capture/drowning in fishing nets and traps. \"C. siamensis\" currently has extremely low and fragmented remaining populations with little proven reproduction in the wild.\n\nSiamese crocodiles have historically been captured for skins and to stock commercial crocodile farms. In 1945, skin hunting for commercial farms was banned by the French colonial administration of Cambodia. In the late 1940s, populations spurred the development of farms and harvesting wild crocodiles for stocking these farms. Protection was abolished by the Khmer Rouge (1975–79) but later reinstated under Article 18 of the Fishery Law of 1987, which \"forbids the catching, selling, and transportation of...[wild] crocodiles...\"\n\nCrocodile farming now has a huge economic impact in the provinces surrounding Tonle Sap, where 396 farms held over 20,000 crocodiles in 1998. Also, many crocodiles were exported from Cambodia since the mid-1980s to stock commercial farms in Thailand, Vietnam, and China.\n\nDespite legal protection, a profitable market exists for the capture and sale of crocodiles to farms since the early 1980s. This chronic overharvesting has led to the decline of the wild Siamese crocodile.\n\nThe current situation of \"C. siamensis\" represents a significant improvement from the status reported in the 1992 Action Plan (effectively extinct in the wild), but poses major new challenges for quantitative survey and effective conservation action if the species is to survive. While the species remains critically endangered, there is a sufficient residual wild population, albeit severely fragmented across several areas and countries, to provide a basis for recovery.\n\nThe Siamese crocodile is relatively unthreatening to people (compared to \"C. porosus\"), and the possibility of people and crocodiles coexisting in natural settings seems possible. The powerful economic force of the commercial industry based on \"C. siamensis\" also needs to be mobilised and channelled for conservation advantage. Considerable effort and action is still required, but the species has a reasonable chance of survival if the necessary actions can be implemented.\n\nYayasan Ulin (The Ironwood Foundation) is running a small project to conserve an important wetland habitat in the area of East Kalimantan which is known to contain the crocodiles. Most of them, though, live in Cambodia, where isolated, small groups are present in several remote areas of the Cardamom Mountains, in the southwest of the country, and also in the Vireakchey National Park, in the northeast of the country.\n\nIn Cambodia Fauna and Flora International and the Government of Cambodia's Forestry Administration have established the Cambodian Crocodile Conservation Programme for the protection and recovery of Siamese crocodiles. This programme works with a network of indigenous villages who are helping to protect key sites such as Veal Veng Marsh (Veal Veng District), the Tatai River (Thmar Bang District) and the Araeng River. The latter is considered to have the second largest population of Siamese crocodiles in the world, but is currently threatened by the proposed construction of a massive dam in the river. During the heavy monsoon period of June–November, Siamese crocodiles take advantage of the increase in water levels to move out of the river and onto large lakes and other local bodies of water, returning to their original habitat once water levels start receding back to their usual levels.\n\nThe Cambodian Crocodile Conservation Programme conducted DNA analysis of 69 crocodiles in Phnom Tamao Wildlife Rescue Centre in Cambodia 2009, and found 35 of them were purebred \"C. siamensis\". Conservationists from the Forestry Administration and Fauna and Flora International subsequently launched a conservation breeding program at the Centre. Since 2012, approximately 50 purebred Cambodian Siamese crocodiles have been released into community-protected areas to reinforce the depleted wild populations.\n\nPoaching is a severe threat to this species, with the value of wild Siamese crocodiles reaching hundreds of dollars in the black market, where they are illegally taken into crocodile farms and hybridized with other, larger species. The total wild population is unknown, since most groups are in isolated areas where access is extremely complicated. A number of captively held individuals are the result of hybridization with the saltwater crocodile, but several thousand \"pure\" individuals do exist in captivity, and are regularly bred at crocodile farms, especially in Thailand.\n\nPang Sida National Park in Thailand, near Cambodia, has a project to reintroduce Siamese crocodile into the wild. A number of young crocodiles have been released into a small and remote river in the park, not accessible to visitors.\n\nThe Wildlife Conservation Society (WCS) is working with the government of Laos on a new programme to save this critically endangered crocodile and its wetland habitat. In August, 2011, a press release announced the successful hatching of a clutch of 20 Siamese crocodiles. These eggs were then incubated at the Laos Zoo. This project represents a new effort by WCS to conserve the biodiversity and habitat of Laos’ Savannakhet Province, promotes conservation of biodiversity for the whole landscape, and relies on community involvement from local residents.\n\nHigh priority projects include:\n\n\nOther projects include:\n\nA Siamese crocodile has been cited in to the folk tale of Central Thailand's \"Krai Thong\" (\"ไกรทอง\") tales have known as well, and was taken to create a television series and movies several times. The story about a magic crocodile called \"Chalawan\" (\"ชาละวัน\"), that can transform into a man. And grabbed the woman to be his wife in underwater caves.\n\nA Siamese crocodile stars as the titular monster in the 1978 Thailand film \"Crocodile\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1884768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884768", "title": "Haitham al-Yemeni", "text": "Haitham al-Yemeni\n\nHaitham al-Yemeni () (?? – May 2005) was an al Qaeda explosives expert from Yemen. He was killed in North Waziristan, northwest Pakistan, near the Afghanistan border, in early May 2005 in a drone attack by an unmanned CIA-operated RQ-1 Predator aircraft. The CIA never released a statement about his death, such a report may be sensitive due to the killing having taken place in Pakistani territory. The killing was ordered by the CIA due to fears that he was about to go into hiding.\n\n\"Note: Various news sources spell his first name as \"Haitham\" or \"Haithem\"\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1884770", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884770", "title": "I Say I Say I Say", "text": "I Say I Say I Say\n\nI Say I Say I Say is the sixth studio album from synthpop duo Erasure, released in 1994 by Mute Records in the UK and Elektra Records in the U.S. The album was produced by Martyn Ware, who was a founding member of veteran synthpop groups The Human League and Heaven 17.\n\nUpon its release it became Erasure's fourth studio album release to consecutively hit No.1 in the UK, and fifth overall, generating three Top 20 singles. In the U.S., \"I Say I Say I Say\" debuted and peaked at #18 on the \"Billboard\" 200, easily beating their previous highest chart placing. In Germany, the album climbed to #6.\n\nAlthough Erasure always maintained popularity in the U.S. dance club community, with the rise of grunge rock Erasure saw their exposure on college radio, mainstream stations and MTV become mostly non-existent by 1994. This made it even more of a surprise when the ballad \"Always\" gave them their third Top 20 hit on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 in September.\n\nThe album saw keyboardist/programmer Vince Clarke continue with his by-then trademark exclusive usage of pre-MIDI analog synthesizers and sequencers, with the additional self-imposed constraint that no drum machines were to be used either. Instead, Clarke used synthesizers to create the album's drum and percussion sounds.\n\nOn the Chilean/Argentinian cassette version, there's a Spanish rendition of \"Always\" (Spanish vocal), just before \"Always\".\n\nSubsequent to their acquisition of Erasure's back catalog, and in anticipation of the band's 30th anniversary, BMG commissioned reissues of all previously released UK editions of Erasure albums up to and including 2007's \"Light at the End of the World\". All titles were pressed and distributed by Play It Again Sam on 180-gram vinyl and shrinkwrapped with a custom anniversary sticker.\n\n"}
{"id": "1884774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884774", "title": "Will Pan", "text": "Will Pan\n\nWilber Pan (; born 6 August 1980), also known as Will Pan, is a Taiwanese-American rapper, actor, and entrepreneur. He started his career as a host of Channel V programs. In 2011, Pan was awarded Best Actor for \"Endless Love\" () at the 46th Golden Bell Awards, Taiwan's equivalent to the Emmy Awards.\n\nIn recent years, Pan ventured into the business world. Pan's business interests extends into streetwear fashion and developing of mobile games. In 2009, he launched the streetwear boutique N.P.C (New Project Center) which he collaborated with Chinese host , in Shanghai. N.P.C also has its stores in Beijing, Hangzhou, Chengdu, and at online shopping website Taobao. In 2010, Pan established his streetwear brand \"Undisputed\" and modelled for the brand's promotional ads. He is also the co-founder and chief creative officer of software company Camigo Media which develops popular mobile games such as \"Fish Off\", \"Pig Rockets\" and \"MeWantBamboo 2\", that has achieved over 20 million downloads to date.\n\nIn April 2013, Pan was ranked 76th on 2013 Forbes China Celebrity 100 list, and 44th on the income list which was based on his estimated earnings of $31.9 million yuan in 2012.\n\nPan was born in West Virginia, United States but moved to Taiwan at the age of seven. He attended Dominican International School and Taipei American School and graduated in 1999. He was offered an athletic scholarship in basketball by a NCAA college, but chose to continue his education at California State Polytechnic University, Pomona in the United States. However, he left before graduating to pursue a showbiz career.\n\nIn 1999, Pan took part in singing contest \"BCC Star\" while interning at the Broadcasting Corporation of China. He performed the song \"Can't Wait\" by Steve Seungjun Yoo and Yuki Hsu in the finals and later went on to participate in NMG/BMG Los Angeles Singing Competition. The song which he performed, Alex To's \"You Are Spoiled (把你寵坏)\" won him the \"Best Image Award\". His performance at the singing competition caught the attention of Andy Lau's manager and he was invited to audition for Channel V's program host in Hong Kong.\n\nBelow is a list of Korean songs covered by Pan.\n\nIn 2001, Pan signed to BMG and made his debut hosting \"V Style Society\" alongside . In the same year, he acted in Taiwanese drama \"Great Teacher\" (麻辣鮮師) and contributed four songs in the original soundtrack.\n\nIn 2002, Will released his debut Mandarin solo album, \"Gecko Stroll\", which sold over 130,000 copies in Taiwan. The album contains the track \"By My Side\" (站在你這邊) composed by Jay Chou and \"I'm Not Afraid\" (我不怕) composed by Chinese singer Anson Hu. He collaborated with Evonne Hsu on the track \"Special Guest\" (特別來賓).\n\nHe was featured in Alec Su's 2002 song \"Playing for Real\" (玩真的).\n\nHis second album \"Pass Me The Mic\" was released in the following year on 19 September. The album includes his collaboration with on the track \"Curry Chili\" (咖哩辣椒). To promote his album, Pan starred in a five-part \"music love story\" (音樂愛情故事) which aired on SETTV variety show \"Showbiz\" (完全娛樂).\n\nIn October 2003, he held his first mini concert \"Will's Show\" at Nangang 101. A VCD, \"Will Show Music Video Karaoke\" which contains the concert highlights, was released in Jan 2004. In the compilation album \"U Love\" released by Universal Music Taiwan, he worked with Universal Music artists Energy and Evonne Hsu on the single \"Universal Love\".\n\nHe was awarded \"Best Male Artist in sales records\" at 2003 \"G-Music Chart Awards\" for \"Gecko Stroll\".\n\nHe appeared as guest star in 2003 dramas \"Love Train\" (心動列車) and \"Wu He Tian\" (無河天).\n\nIn June 2004, he released a pictorial and conversational English book \"Never Teach Me Grammar\" (就是不想學文法). He co-wrote the contents during the period when he was hospitalised for knee injuries.\n\nHe was featured in American singer-songwriter Christina Milian's song Dip It Low (Asian Mix) which is recorded in \"It's About Time (Asian Special Edition)\".\n\nOn 7 August 2004, Will staged his first overseas ticketed concert \"Cool Play Concert\" at Singapore Indoor Stadium with Taiwanese artist .\n\nOn 3 September 2004, he released his third album \"Wu Ha\" which features a duet, \"快樂崇拜\" (Adoration to Happiness) with singer Angela Chang. The album contains the track \"我讓你走了\" (Letting You Go) composed by Taiwanese singer Tank.\n\nIn July 2005, Pan released his fourth studio album \"The Expert\", featuring Chinese singer Zhang Xianzi in the hit song \"不得不愛\" (Cannot Not Love). He convened a team \"Pan@sonic\" to assist him in album productions. The self-penned lead single \"誰是 MVP\" (Who's MVP) is mainly about an ambition to be the MVP in career and areas of interest. It also talks about Pan's emotional setbacks when he sustained serious ligament injury. The album also contains the song \"跟我走吧\" (Leave With Me) composed by singer-songwriter JJ Lin.\n\nOn 13 August 2005, Pan held a celebration show in Taipei, performing tracks mainly from \"The Expert\".\n\nIn December 2005, he released a remix album Will Pan's Freestyle Remix 2005 which contains the remix versions of his previously released hits and a bonus VCD of \"決戰鬥室\" (Battle Room) special version MV and \"一指神功\" (Android) MV.\n\nOn 23 June 2006, Pan released his fifth studio album Around the World which includes 2 duets. He collaborated with Taiwanese seasoned singer Su Rui on the track \"我想更慬你\" (Want To Know You) which is about contradictions between a mother and son. The other duet \"戴上我的愛\" (Wear My Love) features Chinese singer . The MV of the title track \"反轉地球\" (Around The World) featured his \"Pan@sonic\" team members, Taiwanese well-known choreographer Rambo (藍波) and songwriter . The album also contains the track \"Pan@sonic\", composed by the team. \"Pan@sonic\" subsequently dissolved shortly after left to pursue a singing career.\n\nShortly after the release of Around the World, one of the tracks \"著迷\" (Mesmerised) was accused of plagiarism by netizens. The MV concept of the song was also accused of being highly similar to South Korean singer Rain's song I Do. The credited composer Guan Weitang (官煒棠) later admitted to plagiarising the 1998 song \"Each Time\" by East 17. He eventually made an apology, agreeing to drop his name from the credits and bear all legal consequences. It was reported that Pan expressed shock and disappointment over the plagiarism incident.\n\nOn 30 September 2006, Pan embarked on his first official headlining tour \"Will Pan Around The World Concert Tour\" which kicked off in Shanghai, China. Faye from Taiwanese band F.I.R. and singer Shin were special guests for the first stop. The concert tour went on for 16 months, from Sept 2006 to January 2008.\n\nIn September 2007, Pan released his sixth studio album \"Play It Cool\". The album includes a collaboration with Mandopop singer Shin on the rock song \"Shut Up\". He worked with singer Tarcy Su, Taiwanese actress and Chinese actress Betty Sun in the MVs of \"路太彎\" (Road Too Windy), \"說你愛我\" (Say You Love Me) and \"愛不離\" (Love Doesn't Leave) respectively.\n\nOn 20 October 2007, he resumed his \"Around The World Concert Tour\" at Hefei in China, in line with the release of \"Play It Cool\". Jay Chou was the special guest and they performed \"聽媽媽的話\" (Listen to Mother's Words) from Jay's album \"Still Fantasy\". The concert tour was later held in other cities of China, before ending on 1 January 2008 in Guangzhou. He released a concert DVD \"Will Pan 2006–2007 Around The World Concert Tour\" on 20 July 2007 which contains live and behind-the scenes footages of the tour.\n\nIn March 2008, Will collaborated with Jacky Cheung and S.H.E on the track \"紅遍全球\" (Red Around The World) (Third Edition). The song is recorded by brand ambassadors of Coca-Cola, as one of the torch relay songs at the 2008 Summer Olympics.\n\nOn 18 July 2008, Pan released his first compilation album, Will's Future. It contains three new tracks, two medley remixes and 29 previously released songs. One of the new tracks, \"夏日瘋\" (Summer Craze), is the opening theme song of Taiwanese drama \"Miss No Good\", which starred Will and Rainie Yang. The album also includes Will's first attempt in a Cantonese song which is the other version of ballad track \"轉機\"(Transfer). A second edition of Will's Future, released three months later, contains four instrumental tracks of \"Miss No Good\" and its insert song \"同一個遺憾\" (Same Regret) which Pan collaborated with .\n\nOn 22 May 2009, Pan released his seventh studio album, \"007\". It features a duet, \"Be with You\" with American R&B singer Akon. The MV of the track \"雙人舞\" (Pas de Deux), with production costs of NT$7 million, features South Korean actress Lee Da-hae. Pan also worked with Taiwanese actress Chen Kuangyi and Annie Chen in the music videos of \"無重力\" (Weightless) and \"寂屋出租\" (Silence Room for Rent).\n\nPan held his second headlining tour, I'm Will Concert Tour, between September to December 2009. The futuristic-themed tour began in Shanghai, China and final stop held in Taipei, Taiwan.\n\nIn 2010, Pan guest starred in \"Pandamen\" directed by Jay Chou, and acted in with Sandrine Pinna.\n\nIn January 2011, Pan released his eighth studio album 808 which features the opening theme song, \"我們都怕痛\" (We Are All Afraid of Pain), of . He composed five tracks on the album including \"觸動\" (Touch) which he collaborated with Nichkhun of Korean boy band 2PM on the music video.\n\nOn 18 June 2011, Pan was the opening act of the 22nd Golden Melody Awards (the Chinese equivalent to the Grammy Awards), held at Taipei Arena. \n\nAfter starring in , Pan was offered a number of acting opportunities, including the leading actor role of popular Taiwanese drama Love You. However, he declined the offers and cited that he will only consider roles which he is confident of performing up to his expectations. The role of Love You later went to actor Joseph Chang, who was also nominated in the same category as Pan in the 46th Golden Bell Awards.\n\nOn 21 October 2011, Pan was awarded Best Actor at the 46th Golden Bell Awards, Taiwan for .\n\nIn May, Pan was awarded three awards including \"HITO Top 10 Songs\" for the song \"U U U\" at Taiwan HITO Radio Music Awards. In the same month, he was named the ambassador of 2012 Asia Metro Street Dance Competition.\n\nBetween 28 and 29 August, Pan partnered with Google+ and YouTube, and held a 24-hour Google+ Hangouts On-Air, in line with the promotion of his new album. He is the first Taiwanese American celebrity to broadcast publicly his life snippets at Google+ Hangouts On-Air within a 24-hour span.\n\nOn 31 August, he released his ninth studio album \"The Story of Billy\". It features the opening theme song \"華麗進行曲\" (Extravagant March) and the insert songs \"忘記擁抱\" (Forgetting The Hug) and \"專屬於你 \" (Absolutely Yours), of Taiwanese drama . The MV of the title track \"24個比利\" (The Story of Billy) was directed by Hong Wonki and shot entirely in Korea with an all-Korean cast. He collaborated with in the MV of \"華麗進行曲\" (Extravagant March), and with Ann Hsu in the MV of \"忘記擁抱\" (Forgetting The Hug). He also worked with model-singer in the MV of \"專屬於你\" (Absolutely Yours). \"The Story of Billy\" was the number-one album for 2 weeks on Taiwan's G-Music Weekly Top 20 Mandarin and Combo Charts and number one for 1 week on Five Music Chart.\n\nOn 26 September, he was one of the performers for the opening ceremony of the 21st Golden Rooster Film Festival held in Shaoxing, China.\n\nOn 9 October, Pan released the second edition of \"The Story of Billy\". It contains the remix version of \"The Story of Billy\"(24個比利) and a bonus DVD with six music videos. On 13 October, he held a celebration concert at Neo19 in Taipei, which was broadcast simultaneously on his YouTube Channel. He performed all the songs from \"The Story of Billy\", including a piano rendition of \"24個比利\" (The Story of Billy). Singer-actress Cyndi Wang made a guest appearance during the song \"華麗進行曲\" (Extravagant March).\n\nAt the 47th Golden Bell Awards held on 26 October, Pan and Taiwanese actress Tien Hsin (天心) presented the awards for the Best Actress and Best Director in a Television Series.\n\nPan's third concert tour, \"Unleashed\" Concert Tour, kicked off on 10 November 2012 at Shanghai Grand Stage (Shanghai Gymnasium) in China. For the first time ever, Pan took on the role of concert producer and is also involved in areas of stage, lighting and costume design, songs lineup and music arrangement.\n\nThe tour's first stop in Shanghai opened to a full house, and was attended by Pan's family members. He performed near to 30 songs of which more than two-thirds were his compositions. The concert was marked by 3D laser displays and an opening of Pan performing on a 3-storey high ball-shaped time machine. His N.P.C co-partner was the concert guest and they sang a remix version of \"Adoration to Happiness\" (快樂崇拜), Party Rock Anthem and phenomenal song Gangnam Style. He ended the concert with an acoustic rendition of \"24個比利\" (The Story of Billy). The tour is slated to continue to various cities including Shenzhen and Taipei.\n\nOn 27 December, Pan and officiated the opening of their third NPC store in Hangzhou. The event was graced by their celebrity friends including host Chen Chien-chou, and Hong Kong lyricist Wyman Wong.\n\nAt the 20th Chinese Music Chart Awards held at Taipei Arena on 29 December, Pan was awarded \"All Round Artist of the Year\" and \"Most Popular Male Singer of the Year\". He performed \"24個比利\" (The Story of Billy) that was awarded \"Golden Melodies of the Year\" .\n\nPan was one of the big winners at the 3rd Global Chinese Golden Chart Awards. He was named \"Most Popular Male Singer of the Year\" and \"Best Stage Performer of the Year\". His song \"不想醒來\" (Don't Wanna Wake Up) from \"The Story of Billy\" was awarded the \"Top 20 Golden Melodies of the Year\". He attended the post-awards concert which took place at Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada on 17 May 2013.\n\nOn 14 April 2013, Pan took home MY Astro choice for Best International Singer, Best Stage Performer and Top 25 Golden Melodies for the song \"不想醒來\" (Don't Wanna Wake Up) at MY Astro Music Awards, held at Putra Indoor Stadium, Malaysia. At the 17th Global Mandarin Chart Music Award (第17屆全球華語榜中榜), held on 18 April at CotaiArena, he was awarded \"Best All Round Male Singer\" and \"Best Stage Performer\".\n\nOn 21 April 2013, Pan was award presenter and guest performer at Singapore Star Awards 2013. He presented the \"Best Theme Song\" award and performed a string of his hit songs.\n\nIn May 2013, Pan was named the national anti-drugs ambassador of the year by the Ministry of Justice of Taiwan.\n\nPan's tenth studio album, \"Crown & Clown\", was released on 13 June 2014. The album debuted at number one on the Taiwan Five Music Mandarin Chart, G-Music Weekly Top 20 Combo Chart and Chia Chia Record Mandarin Chart. The album's lead single, \"小丑\" (Clown), written and composed by Pan, premiered on Hit FM radio station on 12 May. The album features a duet, \"打呼\" (Snore), which Pan collaborated with Rainie Yang. \"打呼\" (Snore) is the opening theme song for the Taiwanese television series \"Tie The Knot\" (媽咪的男朋友).\n\nPan was scheduled to hold his Taipei concert on 25 October 2014, in support of his album \"Crown & Clown\". The concert was, however, cancelled after Pan suffered severe head injuries while rehearsing for a mid-air stunt segment for the song \"小丑\" (Clown) at the Taipei Arena. He was reportedly rushed to the hospital where he received two stitching procedures and treatment for injuries that include a 17-centimetre cut on his scalp. He was also diagnosed to have suffered from a concussion. His management agency thereafter released a statement saying that the doctors have advised Pan to be kept under observation for at least five to seven days. On 14 December 2014, Pan announced via Facebook that the concert was rescheduled to 31 January 2015. The rescheduled show was recorded and released as a 2-disc DVD on 25 December 2015, and features guest performers Jolin Tsai, Rainie Yang and Show Lo.\n\nIn March 2017, Pan signed with record company Warner Music Taiwan.\n\nPan's father, of Shanghai descent, is a business management and psychology professor. His mother, an alumnus of the prestigious Taipei First Girls' High School, is of Fujian descent. His parents were featured on the track \"怎麼著\" (How) from Pan's seventh album 007. He has a younger brother, Ben who is three years his junior. During the early years of his career, Pan used part of his takings to fund his brother's studies in the United States.\n\nPan maintains a relatively low profile in his personal life. His first girlfriend is a Chinese-Dutch schoolmate whom he briefly dated for a month. During his high school days, he dated a Japanese senior schoolmate, who is of mixed heritage and a year older. The three-year long relationship ended when Pan started out as an actor and singer. In 2006, he composed the song \"謝謝\" (Thank You) to commemorate this romance which he described as \"the most unforgettable relationship I ever had\". In the early days of his career, it was reported that he had a three-year long relationship with his \"Great Teacher\" co-star , and he had written the rap for her song \"束縛\" (Restrained) in 2002. Pan is also romantically linked to his former label-mate and singer Angela Chang whom he had collaborated on the song \"快樂崇拜\" (Adoration to Happiness). In 2010, the Taiwanese tabloids reported that Pan was dating his former schoolmate, Bebe Yang, the daughter of a real estate entrepreneur and in 2014, the rumored relationship resurfaced after further reports suggested that they have been living together for a period of time.\n\nPan has been an avid basketball fan since his early youth. He was the captain of his high school's basketball team and a well-known figure in school for his outstanding performance in the sport. He was awarded MVP in high school and it won him an athletic scholarship to further his studies in the United States. Though he did not take up the offer, he continued playing basketball during his university days and till today. Some of his songs were inspired by his passion for basketball, notably \"誰是 MVP\" (Who's MVP), \"決戰鬥室\" (Battle Room), \"一指神功\" (Android), \"背水一戰\" (Never Lose) and \"光榮\" (Glory).\n\nIn 2009, Pan composed the mid-tempo track, \"親愛的\" (My Dear), which is the theme song of 2009 World Vision Taiwan (WVT)'s \"Be Friends with Children of the World\" campaign. The music video features the footages of Pan's visit to Honduras for World Vision projects.\n\nIn August 2012, Pan visited Guiyang in China to interact with beneficiaries of Music Radio \"I Want to Go to School\" charity project. As ambassador of the project, he composed the theme song \"Love X Love\" (愛X愛) and roped in various artists of Universal Music, including Fish Leong and Da Mouth, to lend their voices in the single.\n\nIn October 2013, Pan and his \"Miss No Good\" co-star Rainie Yang were appointed official co-ambassadors for the twenty-fifth edition of the \"30 Hour Famine\" event in Taiwan. Two months later, Pan and Yang went on a 6-day field visit to Niger to increase awareness on the plight of children whose survival is threatened daily.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1884781", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884781", "title": "Rex Hunt", "text": "Rex Hunt\n\nRex James Hunt (born 7 March 1949) is an Australian television and radio personality, and a former Australian rules football player. He was also a veteran Australian rules football commentator known for his habit of making up quirky nicknames for players. He has also been known around the world for fishing and wildlife programs on the Seven Network and overseas stations. He was a former police officer who reached the senior rank of Sergeant in Victoria Police at age 30. He also previously owned a restaurant, the \"D'lish Fish\" located in Port Melbourne.\n\nHunt was born in Mentone, Victoria, and attended Mordialloc High School. He joined the police force as a cadet after leaving school. In 1970 he was called up to national service.\n\nHunt was recruited from Parkdale by and made his debut in the then Victorian Football League in 1968. He was a key position player who was usually positioned at full-forward or centre half-forward. Later he played at centre half-back. He was part of Richmond's premiership sides in 1969 and 1973. In the middle of 1974, Hunt moved to the Geelong Football Club due to his work as a policeman. The big strong forward played at Geelong in 1974 and 1975, playing only 32 games for the club before moving back to the city and playing with St Kilda. He retired from VFL football at the end of 1978 but continued to play in the lower-level VFA in 1980 and 1981 with Sandringham.\n\n! scope=\"row\" style=\"text-align:center\" | 1968\n! scope=\"row\" style=\"text-align:center;\" | 1969\n! scope=\"row\" style=\"text-align:center\" | 1970\n! scope=\"row\" style=\"text-align:center\" | 1971\n! scope=\"row\" style=\"text-align:center\" | 1972\n! scope=\"row\" style=\"text-align:center;\" | 1973\n! scope=\"row\" style=\"text-align:center\" | 1974\n! scope=\"row\" style=\"text-align:center\" | 1974\n! scope=\"row\" style=\"text-align:center\" | 1975\n! scope=\"row\" style=\"text-align:center\" | 1976\n! scope=\"row\" style=\"text-align:center\" | 1977\n! scope=\"row\" style=\"text-align:center\" | 1978\n! colspan=3| Career\n! 202\n! 276\n! 243\n! 2130\n! 253\n! 2383\n! 1254\n! 1.4\n! 1.2\n! 10.6\n! 1.3\n! 11.9\n! 6.3\n\nAfter his retirement as a player, Hunt became a popular football commentator for 3AW. He also hosted Sunday morning panel shows on the Seven Network, \"the Sportsworld Footy Panel\" and \"I'm Rex Hunt and You're Not\". Early in the 2007 season, Rex celebrated his 1500th game as a commentator of VFL/AFL games. . Hunt announced his resignation from 3AW to join Triple M on 17 November 2009 Hunt announced his retirement from mainstream metropolitan commentary in 2011, however he continues as a commentator for Crocmedia's AFL coverage, calling alongside Peter Donegan. In 2015, Hunt called his 2,000th game of AFL football\n\nIn April 2014, Hunt started a new radio show on SEN 1116 called 'This Is Your Football Life' exploring the lives and achievements of various AFL/AFL football legends. The show is produced by Crocmedia and airs on Sunday mornings.\n\nIn 2017, Hunt returned to 3AW as host of a new post-match talkback program. After Richmond advanced to a preliminary final against the GWS Giants, Hunt also commentated on a Richmond-centeric \"Tiger Radio\" broadcast on AFL Nation with fellow Tiger legends Dale Weightman and Tony Jewell.\n\nHunt is best known for his commentary on 3AW and has a penchant for making up nicknames for players such as \"not a well man\" for Sean Wellman of the Essendon Football Club, \"Doctor Christian Barnard\" for Essendon Football Club player Paul Barnard, \"Ot 'n' Sticky\" for Geelong footballer Brad Ottens; \"Yellow Brick Croad\" for Hawthorn footballer Trent Croad; \"Oysters Kilpatrick\" for Geelong footballer Glenn Kilpatrick; \"Special Fried Rice\" for ex-Carlton footballer Dean Rice; \"Premium Light\" for Western Bulldogs footballer Mitch Hahn; \"The Mediator\" for Kangaroos footballer Troy Makepeace; \"Heavy Overnight Dew\" for Port Adelaide footballer Stuart Dew; \"Horney Torney\" for Richmond and Adelaide footballer Jason Torney; \"Awesome Wells\" for Kangaroos player Daniel Wells; \"Hooligan\" for Blues player Ryan Houlihan; \"Thomas the Tank\" for Collingwood player Dale Thomas; \"Brogan Josh\" for Port Adelaide player Dean Brogan; \"Yaaaablett!!\" for Geelong star Gary Ablett; and \"Presti-gee-a-perry-como\" for Collingwood player Simon Prestigiacomo. He is also known for his \"fat lady sings\" impression and the build up that surrounds it when he (she) bellows out a tune declaring the match over, also he was well known to doing “listen to the fans” a feature he did during the 2006 and 2007 season after a player kicked a goal, The soundtrack of listen to the band by the Monkees band was played.\n\nIn 1981 Hunt was giving regular radio fishing reports and had made two videos on the subject. His first television fishing show was \"Angling Action\" on the Ten Network. Two series of 13 episodes were made and were shown in 1981 and 1982 respectively. His 3DB radio fishing show began in 1982. Throughout the 1980s, Hunt continued to write for a number of newspapers and magazines. In 1991 a series of \"Rex Hunt's Fishing World\" was made and broadcast in Victoria on Channel Seven. A new and longer series of the show went national as \"Rex Hunt's Fishing Australia\" the following year. In 1992, the name changed again to \"Rex Hunt's Fishing Adventure\", which remained on air until 2004. He also had a show on radio 1116 SEN hosting a fishing program 'Off The Hook' with son in law Lee Raynor.\n\nHunt's two most famous catchphrases from these shows were \"Folks, it doesn't get any better than this!\" as he reeled in a huge fish from the waters of one of Australia's most beautiful natural areas and, at the end of each episode, \"It's yibbida-yibbida time!\", a parody of the Warner Brothers' cartoon character Porky Pig saying \"Be-bidda be-bidda be-bidda be... That's all, folks.\" He also had a famous habit of kissing the fish he didn't keep before releasing them.\n\nHunt also made public pronouncements regarding the \"thugs in the scallop industry\" and their dredging of Port Phillip Bay, describing their actions as \"dizzy stuff\". He and a group of anglers and activists were successful in removing the dredging boats and restoring fish populations within the bay.\n\nIn May 2004, Hunt made a curious attempt to make a statement about airline security, which has been markedly increased in Australia after terrorist threats. Hunt was agitated at having to remove his pants and footwear after setting off a metal detector. He then took ten metal forks from the Qantas Club and took them on board a Qantas flight from Adelaide headed for Melbourne in an attempt to prove that airport security was totally flawed. A concerned passenger who did not recognise Hunt alerted the flight crew and he was detained on arrival in Melbourne, where he was questioned for approximately 30 minutes and let go without any charges filed against him.\n\nHunt was involved in a controversial incident involving a racial slur in 2005, when he called Collingwood's Leon Davis, who is of Aboriginal descent, 'as black as a dog' during the call against Essendon mid-way through the season. Hunt made the comment when he trailed off while saying \"Neon Leon hasn't lit up tonight; he's as black as a dog's guts in the night\", to describe Davis' poor form in that match in terms of a neon lights metaphor; other members of the commentary team had been using different neon lights metaphors in the same context. Hunt's apology to Davis was initially rejected, and only accepted later in the week after a face-to-face meeting.\n\nIn 2005, Hunt and his son were involved in an incident in Byron Bay where he claimed to have been attacked by local teenagers. The teenagers involved, however, claim Hunt was extremely intoxicated at the time and his son had thrown the first punch.\n\nOn 17 May 2006 News Ltd exposed Hunt's 15 years of secret sexual liaisons. When confronted Hunt confessed he had paid three women in succession for ongoing sexual relationships over a period of more than 15 years. The final relationship, with a beautician in her 30s, began in 1997 and cost Hunt $1000 a week. Hunt acknowledged he is a hypocrite given his repeated attacks on other media personalities for sexual infidelity. Hunt followed this by an interview with radio broadcaster Neil Mitchell on Melbourne radio 3AW. A quote from Rex Hunt's radio comments, \"That's what a fool does. I'm invincible, I'm paying money... uh... The girl's happy, she's got no money, I got my rocks off. How good is this?\" has gained its own notoriety by being featured repeatedly on national Triple M radio program \"Get This\" hosted by Tony Martin, Ed Kavalee and Richard Marsland. Robyn Hood, 40, one of the three women subsequently sold her story to New Idea magazine. Robyn was quoted as saying: \"Rex was never unfaithful to Lynne. \"We never had sex... he was affectionate, very touchy-feely... then he'd either, in the car or out of it, depending on how cold it was, fling off all his clothes. The more public, the greater the danger and the more exciting Rex apparently found it\". Rex Hunt's wife of thirty four years, Lynne, said she would stand by Hunt and also revealed she suffers from bipolar disorder, which had placed pressure on the couple's relationship.\n\nHunt has been charged with assault over allegations he bashed a cyclist in a Melbourne road rage attack.\n\nRex is married to wife Lynne and has one son and one daughter.\n\n"}
{"id": "1884782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884782", "title": "Michael Eric Dyson", "text": "Michael Eric Dyson\n\nMichael Eric Dyson (born 1958) is an academic, author, preacher, and radio host. He is Professor of Sociology at Georgetown University. Described by Michael A. Fletcher as \"a Princeton Ph.D. and a child of the streets who takes pains never to separate the two\", Dyson has authored or edited more than twenty books dealing with subjects such as Malcolm X, Martin Luther King Jr., Marvin Gaye, Barack Obama, Nas's debut album \"Illmatic\", Bill Cosby, Tupac Shakur and Hurricane Katrina.\n\nDyson's general philosophy is that American black people are continuing to suffer from generations of ongoing oppression. On Fox News with Tucker Carlson, Dyson suggested that white Americans looking for ways to counter white privilege could make individual efforts to contribute time and money to support local black communities.\n\nDyson was born on October 23, 1958, in Detroit, Michigan, the son of Addie Mae Leonard, who was from Alabama. He was adopted by his stepfather, Everett Dyson. He attended Cranbrook School in Bloomfield Hills, Michigan, on an academic scholarship but left and completed his education at Northwestern High School. He became an ordained Baptist minister at nineteen years of age. Having worked in factories in Detroit to support his family, he entered Knoxville College as a freshman at the age of twenty-one. Dyson received his bachelor's degree, \"magna cum laude\", from Carson–Newman College in 1985. He received a Ph.D. in religion from Princeton University in 1993 after completing a doctoral dissertation titled \"Uses of heroes: celebration and criticism in the interpretation of Malcolm X and Martin Luther King, Jr.\" Dyson served on the board of directors of the Common Ground Foundation, a project dedicated to empowering urban youth in the United States. Dyson and his third wife, Marcia L. Dyson, were regular guests and speakers at the Aspen Institute Conferences and Ideas Festival. \"2011 Speakers. Marcia Dyson\", Aspen Ideas Festival. Dyson most recently hosted a television show, \"The Raw Word\".\n\nDyson has a son, Michael Eric Dyson II, born on May 22, 1978, in Detroit with his first wife, Theresa Taylor. Also, Mwata and Maisha Dyson and three grandkids.\n\nDyson has taught at Chicago Theological Seminary, Brown University, the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Columbia University, DePaul University, and the University of Pennsylvania. Since 2007, he has been a Professor of Sociology at Georgetown University. Between 2016 and 2018, he was a visiting professor at Middlebury College in Middlebury, Vermont. His 1994 book \"Making Malcolm: The Myth and Meaning of Malcolm X\" became a \"New York Times\" notable book of the year. In his 2006 book \"Come Hell or High Water: Hurricane Katrina and the Color of Disaster\", Dyson analyzes the political and social events in the wake of the catastrophe against the backdrop of an overall \"failure in race and class relations\". In 2010, Dyson edited \"Born to Use Mics: Reading Nas's Illmatic\", with contributions based on the album’s tracks by, among others, Kevin Coval, Kyra D. Gaunt (\"Professor G\"), dream hampton, Marc Lamont Hill, Adam Mansbach, and Mark Anthony Neal. Dyson's own essay in this anthology, \"'One Love,' Two Brothers, Three Verses\", argues that the current US penal system disfavors young black males more than any other segment of the population. His last three books appeared repeatedly on the “New York Times” Bestseller list. Dyson hosted a radio show, which aired on Radio One, from January 2006 to February 2007. He is also a commentator on National Public Radio, MSNBC and CNN, and is a regular guest on \"Real Time with Bill Maher\". Beginning July 2011 Michael Eric Dyson became a political analyst for MSNBC. In May 2018, he participated in the Munk debate on political correctness, arguing alongside Michelle Goldberg against Stephen Fry and Jordan Peterson. In August 2018, he spoke at the funeral of Aretha Franklin.\n\n\"The Michael Eric Dyson Show\" radio program debuted on April 6, 2009, and is broadcast from Morgan State University. The show's first guest was Oprah Winfrey, to whom Dyson dedicated his book \"Can You Hear Me Now? The Inspiration, Wisdom, and Insight of Michael Eric Dyson\". The show appears to have been discontinued with its last episode being in December 2011.\n\nIn a 2018 debate with conservative Candace Owens on MSNBC's \"The Beat\", Dyson called Owens a \"little girl\". Dyson has since apologized for doing so.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1884784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884784", "title": "William Hume-Rothery", "text": "William Hume-Rothery\n\nWilliam Hume-Rothery OBE FRS (15 May 1899 – 27 September 1968) was an English metallurgist and materials scientist who studied the constitution of alloys.\n\nHume-Rothery was born the son of lawyer Joseph Hume-Rothery in Worcester Park, Surrey. His grandfather, William Rothery, was a clergyman. His campaigning grandmother, Mary Hume-Rothery, was the daughter of Joseph Hume, a Scottish doctor and Radical Member of parliament. William spent his youth in Cheltenham and was educated at Cheltenham College. In 1917 he was made totally deaf by a virus infection. Nevertheless, he entered Magdalen College, Oxford, and obtained a first class Honours degree in chemistry. He also attended the Royal School of Mines and was awarded a PhD.\n\nDuring World War II, he supervised numerous government contracts for work on aluminium and magnesium alloys.\n\nAfter the war he returned to Oxford \"\"to carry on research in intermetallic compounds and problems on the borderland of metallography and chemistry\"\" and remained there for the rest of his working life. In 1938 he was appointed lecturer in metallurgical chemistry. In his research, he concluded that the microstructure of an alloy depends on the sizes of the component atoms, as well as the valency electron concentration, and electrochemical differences. This led to the definition of the Hume-Rothery rules.\n\nIn the 1950s he founded the Department of Metallurgy (which is now the Department of Materials) at the University of Oxford, and was a fellow of St Edmund Hall, Oxford.\nHe was also involved in founding the \"Journal of the Less-Common Metals\", which developed out of an international symposium on metals and alloys above 1200°C which he organized at Oxford University on September 17-18, 1958. The papers presented at the symposium \"The study of metals and alloys above 1200°C\" were published as Volume 1 of the \"Journal of the Less-Common Metals\". \n\nHe was a member of the Oxford Philatelic Society.\n\nThe William Hume-Rothery Award has since 1974 been awarded annually by The Minerals, Metals & Materials Society.\n\n\nHe married Elizabeth Fea in 1931; they had a daughter Jennifer in 1934. He retired in 1966 and died in 1968.\n"}
{"id": "1884787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884787", "title": "Jan Franciszek Czartoryski", "text": "Jan Franciszek Czartoryski\n\nPrince Jan Franciszek Czartoryski or Blessed Michał (February 19, 1897–September 6, 1944) was a Polish noble, and a Dominican friar.\n\nJohn Czartoryski was born in Pelkinie (Jaroslaw) on February 19, 1897. He was an activist of the young organisation \"Odrodzenie\" (\"Rebirth\") in Lwów. During the Warsaw Uprising he was the chaplain of the Armia Krajowa Group \"Konrad\", and was shot by German troops.\n\nCzartoryski was beatified on 13 June 1998 among the 108 Polish Martyrs of World War II.\n\nFeast Day is on September 6.\n\n"}
{"id": "1884788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884788", "title": "Zia McCabe", "text": "Zia McCabe\n\nZia McCabe (born Aimee Springer; June 2, 1975) is a musician and realtor. She plays keyboards, percussion and bass guitar, and is a member of American alternative rock band The Dandy Warhols. She is also a solo DJ, and part of a six-piece country music band called Brush Prairie. She graduated from Battle Ground High School in Battle Ground, Washington in 1993. In 1995, with hardly any prior musical experience, McCabe joined The Dandy Warhols.\n\nShe married Travis Hendricks on 7 October 2001. While pregnant with their daughter Matilda Louise, McCabe continued to perform and record, and managed to complete recording for \"Odditorium or Warlords of Mars\" one week away from childbirth.\n\nOn 7 March 2005, McCabe posed nude while pregnant for the web site SuicideGirls featuring pictures taken by the SuicideGirl Anais. Her photos were posted simultaneously with photos of Anais taken by McCabe.\n\n"}
{"id": "1884790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884790", "title": "Robert Soblen", "text": "Robert Soblen\n\nDr. Robert Soblen (born Ruvelis Sobolevicius, also known as Roman Well; November 7, 1900 – September 11, 1962), was a prominent member of the pro-Trotsky Left Opposition in Germany in the 1930s. He moved to the United States in 1941 with his brother Jack Soble, and was arrested in 1960 as a Soviet spy. Convicted and sentenced to life in prison, he fled the U.S. while on bail and sought asylum first in Israel, then in Britain. He committed suicide by overdosing on barbiturates when his last appeal for asylum in Britain was denied.\n\nBorn in Vilkaviskis, Lithuania, both Soblen and his younger brother Jack (born Abromas Sobolevicius, also known as Abraham or Adolph Senin), were important figures in Trotskyist circles in the 1920s and 1930s. They were very active in French and German Trotskyist movements, handling both Trotsky's secret correspondence to the Soviet Union and publication of his Opposition Bulletin. Jack Soble later claimed he and Robert began working for the Soviet Secret Police against Trotsky in 1931. In 1932, Trotsky broke with the brothers, and Robert joined Trotsky's enemies in the Communist Party of Germany.\n\nSoblen, Soble, and many members of their family moved to the United States in 1941. According to Jack Soble's testimony during Robert's trial, they were personally granted permission for the move by NKVD director Lavrenty Beria, on condition that they assist in Soviet espionage activities in the United States. After arriving in the United States, Soblen set up a psychiatric practice in New York. According to testimony at his trial, Soblen's activities also included spying on the Trotskyist movement in the United States, and transmitting stolen intelligence documents and military information to the Soviet Union.\n\nSoblen's brother Jack was arrested in 1957 and charged with espionage, primarily based on the testimony of Hollywood producer Boris Morros. Morros first worked with Soble's organization providing business cover for Soviet agents, but later agreed to act as a double agent for the FBI. Soble pleaded guilty to the espionage charges, made a detailed statement of his activities, and was sentenced to seven years in prison.\n\nRobert Soblen was not indicted until 1960. He was charged with providing the Soviet Union with secret OSS documents in World War II and photographs of a U.S. nuclear testing site in 1950. Soblen pleaded not guilty. His trial, at which Jack was a primary witness, ended with his conviction. The judge deferred sentencing until August, and stated that the severity of the sentence would depend on whether Soblen was willing to provide a full account of his espionage to the government. Soblen remained defiant and refused to cooperate, and on 7 August 1961, was sentenced to life imprisonment. Soblen, suffering from leukemia, was released on $100,000 bail pending an appeal. His conviction was upheld by the U.S. Court of Appeals in March 1962, and an appeal to the Supreme Court was rejected in June 1962. Soblen was ordered to report to prison to begin his sentence on June 28, 1962.\n\nFollowing the rejection of his last appeal, Soblen jumped bail and flew to Israel, using a forged Canadian passport. Once there, he immediately hired legal assistance and claimed Israeli citizenship as a Jew under the Law of Return, and claimed immunity from extradition as an Israeli citizen. He was arrested in his hotel room shortly after his arrival, and the Israeli government declared that the Law of Return was not an open invitation for Jewish criminals to immigrate to Israel. Soblen was denied citizenship, and his appeals were rejected. Although Israel and the United States did not have an extradition agreement at the time, Soblen faced expulsion from Israel and deportation to the United States on charges of illegal entry, due to his having used a false passport to enter the country. Soblen was deported from Israel on a flight to the United States on July 1. During a stopover in London, Soblen slashed his wrist and abdomen with a dinner knife. He was removed from the airplane and hospitalized. He then hired lawyers and filed a claim for political asylum, or the right to go to any country other than the United States. He also admitted that his actions had not been a suicide attempt, but were rather a ruse to gain admittance to Britain. After Soblen underwent a medical examination in a prison hospital, doctors determined that his leukemia was dormant, that he did not face imminent death from the disease, and that he had a life expectancy of several years rather than several months. British courts denied a series of appeals, and in September 1962, ordered him deported back to the United States. On the day of his deportation, Soblen took an overdose of barbiturates. It is unclear whether this was a legitimate suicide attempt or another attempt to delay deportation. He fell unconscious while being escorted to the airport, and was taken to a hospital. He never regained consciousness, and died on September 11, 1962.\n\nThe Soble/Soblen trials revealed a great deal about Soviet espionage directed against Trotsky and his followers. They also revealed a number of aspects of Soviet espionage against the United States in the 1940s and 1950s, and were one of the more successful espionage prosecutions in the early Cold War period. The extent to which the Venona decryption project assisted in the case is not clear. The project was never mentioned during either of the brothers' trials, but according to Klehr and Haynes, a number of cables deciphered by the Venona project mention Soblen under the covername ROMAN, the pseudonym he used in Germany. Soblen's expulsion from Israel was controversial enough to provoke a no-confidence vote against David Ben-Gurion's government. The vote failed, but the controversy may have contributed to the passing of Israel's \"Offenses Committed Abroad Act\" in 1978, which sharply restricted the circumstances under which Israeli citizens could be extradited. Soblen's asylum request in England also generated controversy and calls for reform.\n\n"}
{"id": "1884799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884799", "title": "Brent DeBoer", "text": "Brent DeBoer\n\nBrent DeBoer is an American singer-songwriter from Portland, Oregon. He is in the bands The Dandy Warhols, Immigrant Union, Fathead and released a solo studio album, \"The Farmer\", in 2010. DeBoer now lives in Melbourne, Australia, with his wife Sarah and two children.\n\nDeBoer joined The Dandy Warhols in 1998, after the original drummer Eric Hedford left the band.\n\nHe is a cousin of bandmate Courtney Taylor-Taylor. At the age of five he received his first drum set for Christmas.\n\nDeBoer has contributed funds to the National Multiple Sclerosis Society as well as Pink and Blue for Two.\n\n"}
{"id": "1884808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884808", "title": "Lost in the Funhouse", "text": "Lost in the Funhouse\n\nLost in the Funhouse (1968) is a short story collection by American author John Barth. The postmodern stories are extremely self-conscious and self-reflexive and are considered to exemplify metafiction.\n\nThough Barth's reputation rests mainly on his long novels, the stories \"Night-Sea Journey\", \"Lost in the Funhouse\", \"Title\" and \"Life-Story\" from \"Lost in the Funhouse\" are widely anthologized. The book appeared the year after the publication of Barth's essay \"The Literature of Exhaustion\", in which Barth said that the traditional modes of realistic fiction had been used up, but that this exhaustion itself could be used to inspire a new generation of writers, citing Nabokov, Beckett, and especially Borges as exemplars of this new approach. \"Lost in the Funhouse\" took these ideas to an extreme, for which it was both praised and condemned by critics.\n\nEach story can be considered complete in itself, and in fact several of them were published separately before being collected. Barth insists, however, on the serial nature of the stories, and that a unity can be found in them as collected. Barth shows his pessimism in the stories, and says he identifies with \"Anonymiad\".\n\nWhen Barth began attending Johns Hopkins University in 1947, he enrolled in one of only two creative writing courses available in the US at the time. He went on to become one of the first full-time professors of creative writing. The stories in \"Lost in the Funhouse\" display a professorial concern with fictional form.\n\n\"Lost in the Funhouse\" was Barth's first book after the 1967 \"The Literature of Exhaustion\", an essay in which Barth claimed that the traditional modes of realistic writing had been exhausted and no longer served the contemporary writer, but that the exhaustion of these techniques could be turned into a new source of inspiration. Barth cited a number of contemporary writers, such as Vladimir Nabokov, Samuel Beckett, and especially Jorge Luis Borges, as important examples of this. The essay later came to be seen by some as an early description of postmodernism. Barth has described the stories of \"Lost in the Funhouse\" as \"mainly late modernist\" and \"postmodernist\".\n\nJorge Luis Borges was a primary influence, as acknowledged by Barth a number of times, most notably in \"The Literature of Exhaustion\". Beckett was another influence.\n\nWritten between 1966 and 1968, several of the stories had already been published separately.\n\nBarth has said he has written his books in pairs: the realistic, existential novels, \"The Floating Opera\" and \"The End of the Road\", were followed by the long, mythical novels, \"The Sot-Weed Factor\" and \"Giles Goat-Boy\". \"Lost in the Funhouse\" came out in 1968, and was followed in 1972 by \"Chimera\", a collection of three self-aware, interrelated, metafictional novellas.\n\nThe book opens with \"Frame-Tale\", a \"story\" in which \"ONCE UPON A TIME THERE\" and \"WAS A STORY THAT BEGAN\" are printed vertically, one on each side of the page. This is intended to be cut out by the reader, and its ends being fastened together, after being twisted once in a Möbius strip. This results in a \"regressus ad infinitum\", a loop with no beginning or end. \"Night-Sea Journey\" follows, the first-person story of a human spermatozoon on its way to fertilize an egg. The tale allegorically recapitulates the story of human life in condensed form.\n\nIn \"Petition\", one half of a pair of Siamese twins, joined at the stomach to his brother's back, writes a petition in 1931 to Prajadhipok, King of Siam (now Thailand), protesting his brother's not acknowledging his existence.\n\nIn \"Menalaiad\", Barth leads the reader in and out of seven metaleptic layers. Menalaus despairs as his story progresses through layer after layer of quotation marks, as one story is framed by another and then another.\n\n\"Autobiography\", which is \"meant for monophonic tape and visible but silent author\"...\n\nThree of the stories - \"Ambrose, His Mark\"; \"Water-Message\"; and the title story, \"Lost in the Funhouse\" - concern a young boy named Ambrose and members of his family. The first story is told in first person, leading up to describing how Ambrose received his name. The second is told in third-person, written in a deliberately archaic style. The third is the most metafictional of the three, with a narrator commenting on the story's form and literary devices as it progresses.\n\n\"Life-Story\" is another metafictional commentary on its own telling. In what is apparently an argument between a couple with problems in their relationship, Barth rejects giving details of names and descriptions, instead just using the words \"fill in the blank\".\n\nIn keeping with the book's subtitle - \"Fiction for Print, Tape, Live Voice\" - the \"Author's Note\" by Barth indicates the various media through which a number of these stories can be conveyed. In particular, he notes that recorded and/or live voice can be used to convey \"Night-Sea Journey\", \"Glossolalia\", \"Echo\", \"Autobiography\", and \"Title\".\n\n\n\"Lost in the Funhouse\" was nominated for the National Book Award (Barth would win the award for his next book, \"Chimera\", in 1973).\n\nAmong Barth's detractors, John Gardner wrote in \"On Moral Fiction\" that Barth's stories were immoral and fake, as they portrayed life as absurd.\n\nMax F. Schulz has said that \"Barth's mature career as a fabulist begins with \"Lost in the Funhouse\"\", and David Morrell called the story \"Lost in the Funhouse\" \"the most important, progressive, trend-defining American short fiction of its decade\".\n\nThough Barth's reputation is for his long novels, the stories \"Night-Sea Journey\", \"Lost in the Funhouse\", \"Title\" and \"Life-Story\" from \"Lost in the Funhouse\" are widely anthologized. \"Lost in the Funhouse\" has come to be seen to exemplify metafiction.\n\nThe story \"Lost in the Funhouse\" had an overt influence on David Foster Wallace in the final novella of \"Girl with Curious Hair\", \"Westward the Course of Empire Takes Its Way\". The protagonist takes a creative writing course at a school near Johns Hopkins, taught by a Professor Ambrose, who says he \"\"is\" a character in and the object of the seminal 'Lost in the Funhouse'\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1884821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884821", "title": "Bernthsen acridine synthesis", "text": "Bernthsen acridine synthesis\n\nThe Bernthsen acridine synthesis is the chemical reaction of a diarylamine heated with a carboxylic acid (or acid anhydride) and zinc chloride to form a 9-substituted acridine.\n\nUsing zinc chloride, one must heat the reaction to 200-270 °C for 24hrs. The use of polyphosphoric acid will give acridine products at a lower temperature, but also with decreased yields.\n"}
{"id": "1884823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884823", "title": "Xiaogan", "text": "Xiaogan\n\nXiaogan () is a prefecture-level city in east-central Hubei province, People's Republic of China, some northwest of the provincial capital of Wuhan. According to the 2010 census, its population totaled 4,814,542, of whom 908,266 lived in the built-up (\"or metro\") area of Xiaonan District.\n\nThe city name Xiaogan, meaning \"Filial Piety Moves [the Heaven]\" (), is from the story of Dong Yong (), who sold himself for his father's funeral, in \"The Twenty-four Filial Exemplars\".\n\nThe Sheshui River originates in Xiaogan's Dawu County. On the third day of the third month of the lunar calendar, many in Wuhan eat 'di cai zhu ji dan' () which is supposed to prevent illness in the coming year. This practice is related to a story involving Shennong in Xiaogan.\n\nSince 2000, Xiaogan has been divided into 1 district, 3 cities and 3 counties:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1884825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884825", "title": "Witold Leon Czartoryski", "text": "Witold Leon Czartoryski\n\nPrince Witold Leon Karol Adam Jarosław Jerzy Czartoryski (1864–1945) was a Polish noble (szlachcic) and landowner. He served as the general commissar of Galicia and Lodomeria from the end of Russian occupation in 1917 to full incorporation as part of Poland on 1 November 1918. He was a hereditary member of the Austrian House of Lords (Herrenhaus) from 1908 and an elected Senator of the Polish Republic (1922–28)\n\nWitold became owner of Pełkinie, Wiązownica, Konarzewo, Byliny estates in Poland and Weinhaus in Vienna.\n\nWitold was a well-known horse racing enthusiast. He set up a world-renowned hot bloods stud in Pełkinie, which bred the remarkable Arabian horses Czubuthan, Babolna, Ba-Ida, Kasmira and Aeniza.\n\nHe was married to Countess Jadwiga Dzieduszycka hr. Sas daughter of Count Włodzimierz Dzieduszycki, married on February 21, 1889 in Lwów. They had twelve children together, including:\n\n"}
{"id": "1884830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884830", "title": "Winnie Leuszler", "text": "Winnie Leuszler\n\nWinnifred \"Winnie\" Frances Roach-Leuszler, O.Ont (February 3, 1926 – May 1, 2004) was a Canadian long distance swimmer.\n\nA long distance swimmer of international acclaim, she started swimming when she was three years old. At nine years of age, she won her first medal as a competitive swimmer. She would go on to win local, provincial, national, North American and international medals throughout her career.\n\nIn 1944, she was labeled Canada's All Round Athlete of the year. That same year she joined the Women's Corp and was dominating Army, Navy and Air Forces sporting championships. In 1946, while three months pregnant, she won the 5 mile World Swimming Championship and while four months pregnant in 1949 she was second in the same event. On August 16, 1951 she became the first Canadian to swim the English Channel. She came home to a ticker tape parade in Toronto. In 1954 she entered the swim across Lake Ontario with Marilyn Bell but was forced from the event with problems with her guide boat. In the 1950s, she was lured to baseball and in 1957 she was Canada's first female baseball umpire. In 1996 she was inducted into the Canadian Forces Sports Hall of Fame. In 1999 she received the Order of Ontario and was inducted into the Ontario Swimming Hall of Fame.\n\nShe was born in Port Credit, Ontario, and died at Surrey, British Columbia.\n\nText from famouscanadianwomen.com here, used with permission.\n"}
{"id": "1884846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884846", "title": "Iodine-131", "text": "Iodine-131\n\nIodine-131 (I, I-131) is an important radioisotope of iodine discovered by Glenn Seaborg and John Livingood in 1938 at the University of California, Berkeley. It has a radioactive decay half-life of about eight days. It is associated with nuclear energy, medical diagnostic and treatment procedures, and natural gas production. It also plays a major role as a radioactive isotope present in nuclear fission products, and was a significant contributor to the health hazards from open-air atomic bomb testing in the 1950s, and from the Chernobyl disaster, as well as being a large fraction of the contamination hazard in the first weeks in the Fukushima nuclear crisis. This is because I is a major fission product of uranium and plutonium, comprising nearly 3% of the total products of fission (by weight). See fission product yield for a comparison with other radioactive fission products. I is also a major fission product of uranium-233, produced from thorium.\n\nDue to its mode of beta decay, iodine-131 is notable for causing mutation and death in cells that it penetrates, and other cells up to several millimeters away. For this reason, high doses of the isotope are sometimes less dangerous than low doses, since they tend to kill thyroid tissues that would otherwise become cancerous as a result of the radiation. For example, children treated with moderate dose of I for thyroid adenomas had a detectable increase in thyroid cancer, but children treated with a much higher dose did not. Likewise, most studies of very-high-dose I for treatment of Graves' disease have failed to find any increase in thyroid cancer, even though there is linear increase in thyroid cancer risk with I absorption at moderate doses. Thus, iodine-131 is increasingly less employed in small doses in medical use (especially in children), but increasingly is used only in large and maximal treatment doses, as a way of killing targeted tissues. This is known as \"therapeutic use\".\n\nIodine-131 can be \"seen\" by nuclear medicine imaging techniques (i.e., gamma cameras) whenever it is given for therapeutic use, since about 10% of its energy and radiation dose is via gamma radiation. However, since the other 90% of radiation (beta radiation) causes tissue damage without contributing to any ability to see or \"image\" the isotope, other less-damaging radioisotopes of iodine such as iodine-123 (see isotopes of iodine) are preferred in situations when \"only\" nuclear imaging is required. The isotope I is still occasionally used for purely diagnostic (i.e., imaging) work, due to its low expense compared to other iodine radioisotopes. Very small medical imaging doses of I have not shown any increase in thyroid cancer. The low-cost availability of I, in turn, is due to the relative ease of creating I by neutron bombardment of natural tellurium in a nuclear reactor, then separating I out by various simple methods (i.e., heating to drive off the volatile iodine). By contrast, other iodine radioisotopes are usually created by far more expensive techniques, starting with reactor radiation of expensive capsules of pressurized xenon gas.\n\nIodine-131 is also one of the most commonly used gamma-emitting radioactive industrial tracer. Radioactive tracer isotopes are injected with hydraulic fracturing fluid to determine the injection profile and location of fractures created by hydraulic fracturing.\n\nMuch smaller incidental doses of iodine-131 than those used in medical therapeutic procedures, are supposed by some studies to be the major cause of increased thyroid cancers after accidental nuclear contamination. These studies suppose that cancers happen from residual tissue radiation damage caused by the I, and should appear mostly years after exposure, long after the I has decayed. Other studies did not find a correlation.\n\nMost I production is from neutron irradiation of a natural tellurium target in a nuclear reactor. Irradiation of natural tellurium produces almost entirely I as the only radionuclide with a half-life longer than hours, since most lighter isotopes of tellurium become heavier stable isotopes, or else stable iodine or xenon. However, the heaviest naturally occurring tellurium nuclide, Te (34% of natural tellurium) absorbs a neutron to become tellurium-131, which beta decays with a half-life of 25 minutes to I.\n\nA tellurium compound can be irradiated while bound as an oxide to an ion exchange column, with evolved I then eluted into an alkaline solution. More commonly, powdered elemental tellurium is irradiated and then I separated from it by dry distillation of the iodine, which has a far higher vapor pressure. The element is then dissolved in a mildly alkaline solution in the standard manner, to produce I as iodide and hypoiodate (which is soon reduced to iodide).\n\nI is a fission product with a yield of 2.878% from uranium-235, and can be released in nuclear weapons tests and nuclear accidents. However, the short half-life means it is not present in significant quantities in cooled spent nuclear fuel, unlike iodine-129 whose half-life is nearly a billion times that of I.\n\nIt is discharged to the atmosphere in small quantities by some nuclear power plants.\n\nI decays with a half-life of 8.02 days with beta minus and gamma emissions. This isotope of iodine has 78 neutrons in its nucleus, while the only stable nuclide, I, has 74. On decaying, I most often (89% of the time) expends its 971 keV of decay energy by transforming into stable xenon-131 in two steps, with gamma decay following rapidly after beta decay:\n\nThe primary emissions of I decay are thus electrons with a maximal energy of 606 keV (89% abundance, others 248–807 keV) and 364 keV gamma rays (81% abundance, others 723 keV). Beta decay also produces an antineutrino, which carries off variable amounts of the beta decay energy. The electrons, due to their high mean energy (190 keV, with typical beta-decay spectra present) have a tissue penetration of .\n\nIodine in food is absorbed by the body and preferentially concentrated in the thyroid where it is needed for the functioning of that gland. When I is present in high levels in the environment from radioactive fallout, it can be absorbed through contaminated food, and will also accumulate in the thyroid. As it decays, it may cause damage to the thyroid. The primary risk from exposure to I is an increased risk of radiation-induced cancer in later life. Other risks include the possibility of non-cancerous growths and thyroiditis.\n\nThe risk of thyroid cancer in later life appears to diminish with increasing age at time of exposure. Most risk estimates are based on studies in which radiation exposures occurred in children or teenagers. When adults are exposed, it has been difficult for epidemiologists to detect a statistically significant difference in the rates of thyroid disease above that of a similar but otherwise-unexposed group.\n\nThe risk can be mitigated by taking iodine supplements, raising the total amount of iodine in the body and, therefore, reducing uptake and retention in the face and chest and lowering the relative proportion of radioactive iodine. However, such supplements were not distributed to the population living nearest to the Chernobyl nuclear power plant after the disaster, though they were widely distributed to children in Poland.\n\nWithin the US, the highest I fallout doses occurred during the 1950s and early 1960s to children having consumed fresh sources of milk contaminated as the result of above-ground testing of nuclear weapons. The National Cancer Institute provides additional information on the health effects from exposure to I in fallout, as well as individualized estimates, for those born before 1971, for each of the 3070 counties in the USA. The calculations are taken from data collected regarding fallout from the nuclear weapons tests conducted at the Nevada Test Site.\n\nOn 27 March 2011, the Massachusetts Department of Public Health reported that I was detected in very low concentrations in rainwater from samples collected in Massachusetts, USA, and that this likely originated from the Fukushima power plant. Farmers near the plant dumped raw milk, while testing in the United States found 0.8 pico-curies per liter of iodine-131 in a milk sample, but the radiation levels were 5,000 times lower than the FDA's \"defined intervention level\".\nThe levels were expected to drop relatively quickly\n\nA common treatment method for preventing iodine-131 exposure is by saturating the thyroid with regular, non-radioactive iodine-127, as an iodide or iodate salt. Free elemental iodine should not be used for saturating the thyroid because it is a corrosive oxidant and therefore is toxic to ingest in the necessary quantities. The thyroid will absorb very little of the radioactive iodine-131 after it is saturated with non-radioactive iodide, thereby avoiding the damage caused by radiation from radioiodine.\n\nThe most common method of treatment is to give potassium iodide to those at risk. The dosage for adults is 130 mg potassium iodide per day, given in one dose, or divided into portions of 65 mg twice a day. This is equivalent to 100 mg of iodine, and is about 700 times bigger than the nutritional dose of iodine, which is 0.150 mg per day (150 micrograms per day). See potassium iodide for more information on prevention of radioiodine absorption by the thyroid during nuclear accident, or for nuclear medical reasons. The FDA-approved dosing of potassium iodide for this purpose are as follows: infants less than 1 month old, 16 mg; children 1 month to 3 years, 32 mg; children 3 years to 18 years, 65 mg; adults 130 mg. However, some sources recommend alternative dosing regimens.\n\nThe ingestion of prophylaxis iodide and iodate is not without its dangers, There is reason for caution about taking potassium iodide or iodine supplements, as their unnecessary use can cause conditions such as the Jod-Basedow phenomena, and the Wolff–Chaikoff effect, trigger and/or worsen hyperthyroidism and hypothyroidism respectively, and ultimately cause temporary or even permanent thyroid conditions. It can also cause sialadenitis (an inflammation of the salivary gland), gastrointestinal disturbances, allergic reactions and rashes. Potassium iodide is also not recommended for those who have had an allergic reaction to iodine, and people with dermatitis herpetiformis and hypocomplementemic vasculitis, conditions that are linked to a risk of iodine sensitivity.\n\nThe use of a particular \"iodine tablet\" used in portable water purification has also been determined as somewhat effective at reducing radioiodine uptake. In a small study on human subjects who, for each of their 90-day trial, ingested four 20 milligram tetraglycine hydroperiodide (TGHP) water tablets, with each tablet releasing 8 milligrams (ppm) of free titratable iodine; it was found that the biological uptake of radioactive iodine in these human subjects dropped to and remained at a value of less than 2% the radioiodine uptake rate of that observed in control subjects who were fully exposed to radioiodine without treatment.\n\nThe administration of known goitrogen substances can also be used as a prophylaxis in reducing the bio-uptake of iodine, (whether it be the nutritional non-radioactive iodine-127 or radioactive iodine, radioiodine – most commonly iodine-131, as the body cannot discern between different iodine isotopes). Perchlorate ions, a common water contaminant in the USA due to the aerospace industry, has been shown to reduce iodine uptake and thus is classified as a goitrogen. Perchlorate ions are a competitive inhibitor of the process by which iodide, is actively deposited into thyroid follicular cells. Studies involving healthy adult volunteers determined that at levels above 0.007 milligrams per kilogram per day (mg/(kg·d)), perchlorate begins to temporarily inhibit the thyroid gland's ability to absorb iodine from the bloodstream (\"iodide uptake inhibition\", thus perchlorate is a known goitrogen). The reduction of the iodide pool by perchlorate has dual effects—reduction of excess hormone synthesis and hyperthyroidism, on the one hand, and reduction of thyroid inhibitor synthesis and hypothyroidism on the other. Perchlorate remains very useful as a single dose application in tests measuring the discharge of radioiodide accumulated in the thyroid as a result of many different disruptions in the further metabolism of iodide in the thyroid gland.\n\nTreatment of thyrotoxicosis (including Graves' disease) with 600–2,000 mg potassium perchlorate (430–1,400 mg perchlorate) daily for periods of several months or longer was once common practice, particularly in Europe, and perchlorate use at lower doses to treat thyroid problems continues to this day. Although 400 mg of potassium perchlorate divided into four or five daily doses was used initially and found effective, higher doses were introduced when 400 mg/day was discovered not to control thyrotoxicosis in all subjects.\n\nCurrent regimens for treatment of thyrotoxicosis (including Graves' disease), when a patient is exposed to additional sources of iodine, commonly include 500 mg potassium perchlorate twice per day for 18–40 days.\n\nProphylaxis with perchlorate-containing water at concentrations of 17 ppm, which corresponds to 0.5 mg/kg-day personal intake, if one is 70 kg and consumes two litres of water per day, was found to reduce baseline radioiodine uptake by 67% This is equivalent to ingesting a total of just 35 mg of perchlorate ions per day. In another related study where subjects drank just 1 litre of perchlorate-containing water per day at a concentration of 10 ppm, i.e. daily 10 mg of perchlorate ions were ingested, an average 38% reduction in the uptake of iodine was observed.\n\nHowever, when the average perchlorate absorption in perchlorate plant workers subjected to the highest exposure has been estimated as approximately 0.5 mg/kg-day, as in the above paragraph, a 67% reduction of iodine uptake would be expected. Studies of chronically exposed workers though have thus far failed to detect any abnormalities of thyroid function, including the uptake of iodine. This may well be attributable to sufficient daily exposure or intake of healthy iodine-127 among the workers and the short 8-hr biological half life of perchlorate in the body.\n\nTo completely block the uptake of iodine-131 by the purposeful addition of perchlorate ions to a population's water supply, aiming at dosages of 0.5 mg/kg-day, or a water concentration of 17 ppm, would therefore be grossly inadequate at truly reducing radioiodine uptake. Perchlorate ion concentrations in a region's water supply would therefore need to be much higher, with at least a total dosage of 7.15 mg/kg of body weight per day needing to be aimed for, with this being achievable for most adults by consuming 2 liters of water per day with a water concentration of 250 mg/kg of water, or 250 ppm of perchlorate ions per liter; only at this level would perchlorate consumption offer adequate protection, and be truly beneficial to the population at preventing bioaccumulation when exposed to a radioiodine environment. This being entirely independent of the availability of iodate or iodide drugs.\n\nThe continual addition of perchlorate to the water supply would need to continue for no less than 80–90 days, beginning immediately after the initial release of radioiodine is detected; after 80–90 days have passed, released radioactive iodine-131 will have decayed to less than 0.1% of its initial quantity, and thus the danger from biouptake of iodine-131 is essentially over.\n\nIn the event of a radioiodine release, the ingestion of prophylaxis potassium iodide or iodate, if available, would rightly take precedence over perchlorate administration, and would be the first line of defense in protecting the population from a radioiodine release. However, in the event of a radioiodine release too massive and widespread to be controlled by the limited stock of iodide & iodate prophylaxis drugs, then the addition of perchlorate ions to the water supply, or distribution of perchlorate tablets, would serve as a cheap and efficacious second line of defense against carcinogenic radioiodine bioaccumulation.\n\nThe ingestion of goitrogen drugs is, much like potassium iodide, also not without its dangers, such as hypothyroidism. In all these cases however, despite the risks, the prophylaxis benefits of intervention with iodide, iodate, or perchlorate outweigh the serious cancer risk from radioiodine bioaccumulation in regions where radioiodine has sufficiently contaminatated the environment.\n\nIodine-131 is used for unsealed source radiotherapy in nuclear medicine to treat several conditions. It can also be detected by gamma cameras for diagnostic imaging, however it is rarely administered for diagnostic purposes only, imaging will normally be done following a therapeutic dose. Use of the I as iodide salt exploits the mechanism of absorption of iodine by the normal cells of the thyroid gland.\n\nMajor uses of I include the treatment of thyrotoxicosis (hyperthyroidism) due to Graves' disease, and sometimes hyperactive thyroid nodules (abnormally active thyroid tissue that is not malignant). The therapeutic use of radioiodine to treat hyperthyroidism from Graves' disease was first reported by Saul Hertz in 1941. The dose is typically administered orally (either as a liquid or capsule), in an outpatient setting, and is usually 400–600 megabecquerels (MBq). Radioactive iodine (iodine-131) alone can potentially worsen thyrotoxicosis in the first few days after treatment.  One side effect of treatment is an initial period of a few days of increased hyperthyroid symptoms.  This occurs because when the radioactive iodine destroys the thyroid cells, they can release thyroid hormone into the blood stream.  For this reason, sometimes patients are pre-treated with thyrostatic medications such as methimazole, and/or they are given symptomatic treatment such as propranolol.  Radioactive iodine treatment is contraindicated in breast-feeding and pregnancy\n\nIodine-131, in higher doses than for thyrotoxicosis, is used for ablation of remnant thyroid tissue following a complete thyroidectomy to treat thyroid cancer.\n\nTypical therapeutic doses of I-131 are between 2220-7400 megabecquerels (MBq). Because of this high radioactivity and because the exposure of stomach tissue to beta radiation would be high near an undissolved capsule, I-131 is sometimes administered to human patients in a small amount of liquid. Administration of this liquid form is usually by straw which is used to slowly and carefully suck up the liquid from a shielded container. For administration to animals (for example, cats with hyperthyroidism), for practical reasons the isotope must be administered by injection. European guidelines recommend administration of a capsule, due to \"greater ease to the patient and the superior radiation protection for caregivers\".\n\nAblation doses are usually administered on an inpatient basis, and IAEA International Basic Safety Standards recommend that patients are not discharged until the activity falls below 1100 MBq. ICRP advice states that \"comforters and carers\" of patients undergoing radionuclide therapy should be treated as members of the public for dose constraint purposes and any restrictions on the patient should be designed based on this principle.\n\nPatients receiving I-131 radioiodine treatment may be warned not to have sexual intercourse for one month (or shorter, depending on dose given), and women told not to become pregnant for six months afterwards. \"This is because a theoretical risk to a developing fetus exists, even though the amount of radioactivity retained may be small and there is no medical proof of an actual risk from radioiodine treatment. Such a precaution would essentially eliminate direct fetal exposure to radioactivity and markedly reduce the possibility of conception with sperm that might theoretically have been damaged by exposure to radioiodine.\" These guidelines vary from hospital to hospital and will depend on national legislation and guidance, as well as the dose of radiation given. Some also advise not to hug or hold children when the radiation is still high, and a one- or two- metre distance to others may be recommended.\n\nI-131 will be eliminated from the body over the next several weeks after it is given. The majority of I-131 will be eliminated from the human body in 3–5 days, through natural decay, and through excretion in sweat and urine. Smaller amounts will continue to be released over the next several weeks, as the body processes thyroid hormones created with the I-131. For this reason, it is advised to regularly clean toilets, sinks, bed sheets and clothing used by the person who received the treatment. Patients may also be advised to wear slippers or socks at all times, and avoid prolonged close contact with others. This minimizes accidental exposure by family members, especially children. Use of a decontaminant specially made for radioactive iodine removal may be advised. The use of chlorine bleach solutions, or cleaners that contain chlorine bleach for cleanup, are not advised, since radioactive elemental iodine gas may be released. Airborne I-131 may cause a greater risk of second-hand exposure, spreading contamination over a wide area. Patient is advised if possible to stay in a room with a bathroom connected to it to limit unintended exposure to family members.\n\nMany airports now have radiation detectors to detect the smuggling of radioactive materials. Patients should be warned that if they travel by air, they may trigger radiation detectors at airports up to 95 days after their treatment with I.\n\nThe I isotope is also used as a radioactive label for certain radiopharmaceuticals that can be used for therapy, e.g. I-metaiodobenzylguanidine (I-MIBG) for imaging and treating pheochromocytoma and neuroblastoma. In all of these therapeutic uses, I destroys tissue by short-range beta radiation. About 90% of its radiation damage to tissue is via beta radiation, and the rest occurs via its gamma radiation (at a longer distance from the radioisotope). It can be seen in diagnostic scans after its use as therapy, because I is also a gamma-emitter.\n\nBecause of the carcinogenicity of its beta radiation in the thyroid in small doses, I-131 is rarely used primarily or solely for diagnosis (although in the past this was more common due to this isotope's relative ease of production and low expense). Instead the more purely gamma-emitting radioiodine iodine-123 is used in diagnostic testing (nuclear medicine scan of the thyroid). The longer half-lived iodine-125 is also occasionally used when a longer half-life radioiodine is needed for diagnosis, and in brachytherapy treatment (isotope confined in small seed-like metal capsules), where the low-energy gamma radiation without a beta component makes iodine-125 useful. The other radioisotopes of iodine are never used in brachytherapy.\n\nThe use of I as a medical isotope has been blamed for a routine shipment of biosolids being rejected from crossing the Canada—U.S. border. Such material can enter the sewers directly from the medical facilities, or by being excreted by patients after a treatment\n\nUsed for the first time in 1951 to localize leaks in a drinking water supply system of Munich, Germany, iodine-131 became one of the most commonly used gamma-emitting industrial radioactive tracers, with applications in isotope hydrology and leak detection.\n\nSince the late 1940s, radioactive tracers have been used by the oil industry. Tagged at the surface, water is then tracked downhole, using the appropriated gamma detector, to determine flows and detect underground leaks. I-131 has been the most widely used tagging isotope in an aqueous solution of sodium iodide. It is used to characterize the hydraulic fracturing fluid to help determine the injection profile and location of fractures created by hydraulic fracturing.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1884851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884851", "title": "Jerzy Konstanty Czartoryski", "text": "Jerzy Konstanty Czartoryski\n\nPrince Jerzy Konstanty Czartoryski (1828–1912) was a Polish noble (szlachcic) and politician.\n\nJerzy was married to Marie Čermáková, married on May 2, 1861 in Vienna; his brother-in-law was the painter Jaroslav Čermák.\n"}
{"id": "1884856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884856", "title": "Elaine Tanner", "text": "Elaine Tanner\n\nElaine Tanner-Watt, (born February 22, 1951) is a Canadian former competition swimmer. Olympic medallist, and former world record-holder in two events.\n\nNicknamed \"Mighty Mouse\" partly because of her small stature (standing barely five feet tall) and partly due to her competitive drive, Tanner had a large impact on Canadian swimming and is considered one of the top performers in the sport.\n\nDuring the 1966 Commonwealth Games in Kingston, Jamaica, Tanner won four gold medals and three silvers, becoming the first woman to ever win four golds at a Commonwealth Games and the first person to get seven medals in those games. She won the Lou Marsh Trophy, recognizing her as Canada's best athlete in 1966 — the youngest person to ever receive the award — and was also selected as the country's top athlete overall. The following year at the 1967 Pan American Games in Winnipeg, Tanner won two gold and three silver medals, breaking two world records in the process. Tanner arrived at the 1968 Summer Olympics in Mexico City as a heavy medal favorite. She won three Olympic medals in Mexico City, including two individual silver medals and one relay bronze. However, the media deemed the lack of gold a disappointment and led Tanner to suffer from depression, retiring from competition after the 1968 Olympics at just 18 years of age.\n\nDespite being of Canadian nationality she also won the ASA National British Championships over 110 yards butterfly in 1965.\n\nIn 1969, she was made an Officer of the Order of Canada and was inducted into Canada's Sports Hall of Fame in 1971. The Elaine Tanner Award has been presented to Canada's top junior female athlete since 1972.\n\nFollowing the games, Tanner fell into a depression that lasted decades, developed a serious eating disorder, suffered anxiety attacks and had her first marriage end after 9 years in 1980, with two children that wound up going to the custody of the father in Prince George as Tanner remained in Vancouver. Roaming around Canada doing odd jobs and eventually having a failed second marriage that ended in 1987, by 1988 she was living off her car, jobless, and feeling suicidal, but eventually found her footing again after meeting former lifeguard John Watt. She married him five years later, and lives with him in White Rock, British Columbia. They have a charity organization, Team Underdog.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1884862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884862", "title": "Barry McGee", "text": "Barry McGee\n\nBarry McGee (born 1966 in San Francisco) is a contemporary US artist. He is a well known graffiti artist, pioneer of the Mission School art movement, and is also known by his monikers: Twist, Ray Fong, Bernon Vernon, and P.Kin.\n\nMcGee graduated from El Camino High School in South San Francisco, California. He later graduated from the San Francisco Art Institute in 1991 with a concentration in painting and printmaking. He was married to the artist Margaret Kilgallen, who died of cancer in 2001. They have a daughter named Asha.\n\n\"Acclaimed for his work in the street as a graffiti artist and for his painted installations in galleries, museums and art festivals around the world, Barry McGee crafts a visual language that makes itself understood. It is public, addressing social concerns of urban life, and very private, elaborating a unique personal style that focuses on humanity, one painstakingly detailed, fine brush-painted image at a time.\"\n\nBarry McGee has exhibited, both solo and group, in galleries internationally. He is represented by Ratio 3 Gallery in San Francisco.\n\nMcGee was a central figure in the graffiti art scene in San Francisco from the late 80's and into the 90's. As Twist, he became well known nationally by his stylized black and white pictographic flathead screw graffiti 'throw ups'. Later he was part of the Mission School art movement based in the aesthetics of the Mission District of San Francisco. His work is founded on a pessimistic view of the urban experience, which he describes as, \"urban ills, over-stimulations, frustrations, addictions & trying to maintain a level head under the constant bombardment of advertising\". He was also an artist in residence at inner-city McClymonds High School in Oakland, California in the early '90s. Although his artistic origins lie in New York subway graffiti he has been included as a member of the street art movement.\nMcGee's installations consist of simple bold paintings which are influenced by Islamic patterns on tiles, vernacular sign painting, or use caricatures of the destitute. These paintings are clustered together in combination with photographs of other graffiti writers. Older work included layering of shapes, and buff marks, backgrounds of drips painted directly on the gallery wall. He has painted stylized portraits on empty bottles of liquor, flattened spray cans, and wrecked vehicles for art shows. He has collaborated frequently with Amaze, allowing him to paint the exterior and interior of the galleries exhibiting McGee's work. They have also utilized realistic moving mechanical human figures that appear to be tagging gallery walls.\n\nThe market value of his work rose considerably after 2001 as a result of his being included in the Venice Biennale and other major exhibitions. As a result, much of his San Francisco street art has been scavenged or stolen.\n\nIn 2004, as part of an exhibit at San Francisco's City Hall, McGee spray-painted \"Smash the State\" on the walls of Supervisor Matt Gonzalez's office. SFGate wrote: \"The timing and placement of the artwork are interesting, seeing how City Hall is a registered historical landmark, and you need approval just to hang a bulletin board\". Gonzalez told the press that he knew his office would be repainted for the next occupant.\n\nMcGee was involved in a controversy regarding the Adidas Y1 HUF, a shoe for which he provided the artwork. This gave rise to a protest campaign by some Asian-Americans who claimed that the picture on the shoe's tongue depicts a racist stereotype. McGee responded to the controversy in a March 2006 press release. He stated that the drawing was a portrait of himself as an 8-year-old child.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1884865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884865", "title": "Arnold van Gennep", "text": "Arnold van Gennep\n\nArnold van Gennep, in full Charles-Arnold Kurr van Gennep (23 April 1873 – 7 May 1957) was a Dutch-German-French ethnographer and folklorist.\n\nHe was born in Ludwigsburg, in the Kingdom of Württemberg (since 1871, a part of the German Empire). Since his parents were never married, Van Gennep adopted his Dutch mother's name \"van Gennep\". When he was six, he and his mother moved to Lyons, France, where she married a French doctor who moved the family to Savoy.\n\nVan Gennep is best known for his work regarding rites of passage ceremonies and his significant works in modern French folklore. He is recognized as the founder of folklore studies in France.\n\nHe went to Paris to study at the Sorbonne, but was disappointed that the school did not offer the subjects he wanted. So he enrolled at the École des langues orientales to study Arabic and at the École pratique des hautes études for philology, general linguistics, Egyptology, Ancient Arabic, primitive religions, and Islamic culture. This scholarly independence would manifest itself for the remainder of his life. He never held an academic position in France.\n\nFrom 1912 to 1915 he held the Chair of Ethnography at the University of Neuchâtel in Switzerland but was expelled for expressing doubts about the neutrality of Switzerland during World War I. There he reorganized the museum and organized the first ethnographic conference (1914). In 1922 he toured the United States.\n\nHis best-known work is \"Les rites de passage\" (The Rites of Passage, 1909) which includes his vision of rites of passage rituals as being divided into three phases: \"préliminaire\" 'preliminary',' \"liminaire\" 'liminality' (a stage much studied by the anthropologist Victor Turner), and \"postliminaire\" 'post-liminality'.\n\nHis major work in French folklore was \"Le Manuel de folklore français contemporain\" (Handbook of Contemporary French Folklore, 1937–1958).\n\nHe died in 1957 in Bourg-la-Reine, France.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1884868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884868", "title": "Stanhope Forbes", "text": "Stanhope Forbes\n\nStanhope Alexander Forbes (18 November 1857 – 2 March 1947) was a British artist and a founding member of the influential Newlyn school of painters. He was often called 'the father of the Newlyn School'.\n\nForbes was born in Dublin, the son of Juliette de Guise Forbes, a French woman, and William Forbes, an English railway manager, who was later transferred to London. He had an older brother, Sir William Forbes, who was a railway manager for the London, Brighton, and South Coast Railway.\n\nHe was married in the summer of 1889 to fellow painter Elizabeth Armstrong at Newlyn's St Peter's Church. Their first home was at the \"Cliffs Castle\" cottage, which overlooked the sea. They had a son named Alexander (Alec). The couple had a home built for the family in Higher Faughan, Penzance. Elizabeth died in 1912.\n\nIn 1915, Forbes married friend and previous student Maudie Palmer, who had been \"assistant, helper and friend to the whole Forbes family.\" During the First World War his son Alec served in the Duke of Cornwall's Light Infantry and was killed in August 1916. He is buried in Guillemont Road Cemetery where his headstone bears an inscription composed by his father: . Stanhope Forbes also sculpted and erected a memorial to his son in their local parish church with the inscription: \"I will get me out of my & from my & from my house unto a that will shew me\".\n\nForbes died in Newlyn on 2 March 1947 at the age of 89. He was buried in the churchyard of Sancreed Parish Church.\n\nEducated at Dulwich College, he studied art under John Sparkes who later taught at South Kensington School of Art. His father then worked for the Luxembourg Railway and after a period of poor health Forbes was removed from Dulwich College and studied under private teachers in Brussels. This afforded additional time to draw. After the end of the Franco-Prussian War, the Forbes returned to London. John Sparkes helped influence William Forbes to recognise his son's artistic talent, Stanhope Forbes then attended Lambeth School of Art (now the City & Guilds of London Art School). By 1878 he attended the Royal Academy under Sir Frederic Leighton and Sir John Millais. Fellow students at the academy included Arthur Hacker, Henry Herbert La Thangue and Solomon J. Solomon. He participated in his first exhibition there.\n\nForbes returned to Ireland for a few months to visit Dr Andrew Melville, family friend and Queen's College professor. While there the men shared their appreciation of art and Forbes painted landscapes of the Galway area. He also received his first commission for a portrait. Back in London, at the age of 18, he received another commission for a portrait of a doctor's daughter, \"Florence\". It was exhibited at the Royal Academy in 1879.\n\nHe then studied at the private atelier of Léon Bonnat in Clichy, Paris from 1880 to 1882. Henry Herbert La Thangue, who also attended Dulwich College, Lambeth School of Art and the Royal Academy, came to Paris, too, and studied at the École nationale supérieure des Beaux-Arts. Arthur Hacker, a friend from the Royal Academy joined Forbes at Bonnat's atelier. In 1881 Forbes and La Thangue went to Cancale, Brittany and painted \"en plein air\", like Jules Bastien-Lepage, which became a technique that Forbes used throughout his career.\n\nOf Brittany, Mrs Lionel Birch wrote:\nIn that most beautiful and interesting portion of France, there seemed to be found everything that an artist could desire. Inhabited by a race of a distinct and marked type, wearing still the beautiful national costumes which had been handed down from bygone ages, and retaining the old language of their forefathers, each village followed religiously the old traditions which ordered the fashion of their dress and the conduct of their lives. Here was a country dear to all who love that which is old and quaint, time-honoured, and reminiscent of past ages.\nA painting made there, \"A Street in Brittany\", was shown and well received at the 1882 Royal Academy Summer Exhibition and sold later that year to the Walker Art Gallery in Liverpool. During an 1883 trip to Brittany, Forbes stayed at Quimperlé. His \"Breton Children in an Orchard - Quimperlé\", was shown at the 1884 Royal Hibernian Academy. Two other works were made \"Fair Measures: a shop in Quimperlé\" and \"Preparations for the Market, Quimperlé\"; They were both shown at the Royal Academy in 1884. True to his degree of satisfaction, the Fair Measures painting was well-received and the Market painting was found to be too blue and shadowless. Since blue was the colour of the Breton costumes, Forbes decided that it might be useful to change locations for a broader range of subjects and colours.\n\nOther artists who were painting in Brittany at the time and who Forbes may have met, were Norman Garstin, Nathaniel Hill, Joseph Malachy Kavanagh and Walter Osborne.\n\nHaving completed his studies in France, Forbes returned to London and showed works he made in Brittany at the 1883 Royal Academy and Royal Hibernian Academy shows. In 1884 he moved to Newlyn in Cornwall, and soon became a leading figure in the growing colony of artists. Of this place, Forbes said:\nI had come from France and, wandering down into Cornwall, came one spring morning along that dusty road by which Newlyn is approached from Penzance. Little did I think that the cluster of grey-roofed houses which I saw before me against the hillside would be my home for many years. What lode-some of artistic metal the place contains I know not; but its effects were strongly felt in the studios of Paris and Antwerp particularly, by a number of young English painters studying there, who just about then, by some common impulse, seemed drawn towards this corner of their native land... There are plenty of names amongst them which are still, and I hope will long by, associated with Newlyn, and the beauty of this fair district, which charmed us from the first, has not lost its power, and holds us still.\n\n\"The Slip\" was Forbes' first painting made in Newlyn. The artist colony received national attention with the Royal Academy exhibition of Forbes works in 1885. Henry Tate bought \"The Health of the Bride\", which is now at the Tate Gallery in London. The exhibition of \"A Fish Sale on a Cornish Beach\" also brought notoriety to Forbes and the artist colony. He was one of the founders of the New English Art Club (NEAC) in 1886.\n\nIn 1892 Forbes became an Associate of the Royal Academy. Forbes was the founding chairman and trustee of the Newlyn Art Gallery beginning in 1895.\n\nForbes and his wife founded the Newlyn Art School in 1899. It attracted students such as Ernest and Doris \"Dod\" Shaw, Frank Gascoigne Heath and Jill and Geoffrey Garnier. The Newlyn area had experienced an economic downturn as the result of failing fishing, mining and farming industries. The school helped to bring an economic resurgence to the area by encouraging individuals to vacation in the area and study and practise art.\n\nHis friends included Henry Herbert La Thangue, Blandford Fletcher and Charles E. Hannaford, who had also been a student. In Newlyn, Forbes tutored the landscape watercolourist Mabel Mary Spanton.\n\nFor a 1909 publish date, Forbes illustrated Mary Russell Mitford's \"Sketches of English Life and Character.\" Some of the illustrations were \"Old Cronies\", \"Bringing Home the Milk\", and \" February Sunshine\".\n\nIn 1910 Forbes was elected a Royal Academician. Forbes became a member of the St Ives Society of Artists in 1928. In 1933 he was made a Senior Royal Academician.\n\nForbes generally painted genre scenes and landscapes \"en plein air\". \"After a Day's Work\", made in 1907, provides a snapshot of life in a small village in Cornwall. In it a man, covered to protect himself from the rain, leads his horse through the wet streets, which bare the light and reflection from light from inside a house. \"With superb skill, the soft light is reflected off the rain-soaked road.\" A girl is held back from crossing the street by her mother until the man and his horse pass by.\n\nBeyond his \"plein air\" painting, he also made interior scenes and was adept at capturing the \"warm and charming\" effects of lighting on a room and the people in it, such as \"The Lantern\", made in 1897. More poignantly, Mrs. Lionel Birch writes of his style and particularly the painting \"The Health of the Bride\": \"[The painting depicts the] dominant note of his life's message, his sense of sympathetic humanity. These people in their humble little parlour, are real and living. Intolerant of all shams and false sentiment, the painter has made himself one with the people he depicts; he has understood the humour which lies so close to tears.\"\n\nOf Forbes's works, Norman Garstin said: \"he is a good unsentimental painter, his work has a sense of sincerity that appeals to everyone\".\n\nA partial list of his other works includes:\n\nHis works are in the collections of the Victoria and Albert Museum in London, Tate Gallery, Imperial War Museum in London, Penlee House, Royal Academy, Gallery Oldham, Queen Mary's Doll's House at Windsor Castle and in other museums in Britain, Australia and New Zealand.\n\nThe West Cornwall Art Archive, Penzance (WCAA) established the Forbes Reading Room in memory of Elizabeth and Stanhope Forbes. It contains books, files and information about art subjects related to the works of the Forbes and their students.\n\nForbes exhibited his work at the following:\nDuring his life\n\nMemorial and Posthumous Exhibitions\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1884874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884874", "title": "Jadwiga Dzieduszycka", "text": "Jadwiga Dzieduszycka\n\nCountess Jadwiga Dzieduszycka (1867–1941) was a Polish noble lady.\n\nJadwiga was married to Prince Witold Leon Czartoryski, married on February 21, 1889 in Lwów. They had twelve children together, including:\n"}
{"id": "1884887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884887", "title": "Michaelis–Arbuzov reaction", "text": "Michaelis–Arbuzov reaction\n\nThe Michaelis–Arbuzov reaction (also called the Arbuzov reaction) is the chemical reaction of a trivalent phosphorus ester with an alkyl halide to form a pentavalent phosphorus species and another alkyl halide. The picture below shows the most common types of substrates undergoing the Arbuzov reaction; phosphite esters (1) react to form phosphonates (2), phosphonites (3) react to form phosphinates (4) and phosphinites (5) react to form phosphine oxides (6).\n\nThe reaction was discovered by August Michaelis in 1898, and greatly explored by Aleksandr Arbuzov soon thereafter. This reaction is widely used for the synthesis of various phosphonates, phosphinates, and phosphine oxides. Several reviews have been published. The reaction also occurs for coordinated phosphite ligands, as illustrated by the demethylation of {(CH)Co[(CHO)P]} to give {(CH)Co[(CHO)PO]}, which is called the Klaui ligand.\n\nThe Michaelis–Arbuzov reaction is initiated with the S2 attack of the nucleophilic phosphorus species (1 - A phosphite) with the electrophilic alkyl halide (2) to give a phosphonium salt as an intermediate (3). These intermediates are occasionally stable enough to be isolated, such as for triaryl phosphites which do not react to form the phosphonate without thermal cleavage of the intermediate (200°C), or cleavage by alcohols or bases. The displaced halide anion then usually reacts via another S2 reaction on one of the R carbons, displacing the oxygen atom to give the desired phosphonate (4) and another alkyl halide (5). This has been supported by the observation that chiral R groups experience inversion of configuration at the carbon center attacked by the halide anion. This is what is expected of an S2 reaction. Evidence also exists for a carbocation based mechanism of dealkylation similar to an S1 reaction, where the R group initially dissociates from the phosphonium salt followed by attack of the anion. Phosphite esters with tertiary alkyl halide groups can undergo the reaction, which would be unexpected if only an S2 mechanism was operating. Further support for this S1 type mechanism comes from the use of the Arbuzov reaction in the synthesis of neopentyl halides, a class of compounds that are notoriously unreactive towards S2 reactions. Based on the principle of microscopic reversibility, the inert nature of the neopentyl halides towards the S2 reaction indicates that an S2 reaction is unlikely to be the mechanism for the synthesis of the neopentyl halides in this reaction. Substrates that cannot react through an S2 pathway or an S1 pathway generally do not react, which include vinyl and aryl groups. For example, the triaryl phosphites mentioned above generally do not react because they form stable phosphonium salts. Since aryl groups do not undergo S1 and S2 type mechanisms, triaryl phosphites lack a low energy pathway for decomposition of the phosphonium salt. An allylic rearrangement mechanism (S2`) has also been implicated in allylic and propargylic halides.\n\nStereochemical experiments on cyclic phosphites have revealed the presence of both pentavalent phosphoranes and tetravalent phosphonium intermediates in chemical equilibrium being involved in the dealkylation step of the reaction using P NMR. The decomposition of these intermediates is driven primarily by the nucleophilicity of the anion. There exists many instances of the intermediate phosphonium salts being sufficiently stable that they can be isolated when the anion is weakly nucleophilic, such as with tetrafluoroborate or triflate anions.\n\nAs a general guideline, the reactivity of the organic halide component can be listed as follows: (from most reactive to least reactive)\n\nand\n\nIn general, tertiary alkyl haldies, aryl halides and vinyl halides do not react. There are notable exceptions to this trend, including 1,2-dichloroethene and trityl halides. Some activated aryl halides, often involving heterocycles have been known to undergo the reaction. Iodobenzene and substituted derivatives have been known to undergo the reaction under photolytic conditions. Secondary alkyl halides often do not react well, producing olefins as side-products. Allyl and propargyl halides are also reactive, but can proceed through an S2 or an S2` mechanism. Reaction with primary alkyl halides and acyl halides generally proceed smoothly. Carbon tetrachloride interestingly enough, only undergoes the reaction a single time with chloroform being inert to the reaction conditions. When a halide atom is found in the ester chain off of the phosphorus atom, isomerization to the corresponding Arbuzov product has been known without addition of an alkyl halide.\n\nThe Perkow reaction is a competing reaction pathway for α-bromo- and α-chloroketones. Under the reaction conditions a mixture of the Perkow product and the normal Arbuzov product occur, usually favoring the Perkow product by a significant amount. Using higher temperatures during the reaction can lead to favoring of the Arbuzov product. The reaction of α-Iodoketones give only the Arbuzov product. Other methods of producing β-ketophosphonates have been developed.\n\nThe reaction of trivalent phosphorus compounds with alkyl halides where the halide is fluorine is abnormal. One example of this reactivity is shown below.\nThe general form of the trivalent phosphorus reagent can be considered as follows: <chem>ABP-OR</chem>with A and B generally being alkyl, alkoxy or aryloxy groups. Electron-withdrawing groups are known to slow down the rate of the reaction, with electron donating groups increasing the rate of the reaction. This is consistent with initial attack of the phosphorus reagent on the alkyl halide as the rate-determining step of the reaction. The reaction proceeds smoothly when the R group is aliphatic. When all of A, B and R are aryl groups, a stable phosphonium salt is formed and the reaction proceeds no further under normal conditions. Heating to higher temperatures in the presence of alcohols has been known to give the isomerization product. Cyclic phosphites generally react to eject the non-cyclic OR group, though for some 5-member rings additional heating is required to afford the final cyclic product.\n\nPhosphite salts (Ex: R = Na) can also undergo the reaction with precipitation of the corresponding Na-Halide salt. Amidophosphites and silyloxyphosphites have been used before to yield amidophosphonates and phosphinic acids. \n\nAn Arbuzov type rearrangement can also occur where the O from an OR group acts as the leaving group in the initial S2 attack of the phosphorus. This is only known to occur when A and B are Cl.\nPhosphite esters are the least reactive class of reagents used in this reaction. They react to produce phosphonates. They require the most heating for the reaction to occur (120°C - 160°C is common). This high temperature allows for fractional distillation to be employed in the removal of the alkyl halide produced, though excess of the starting alkyl halide can also be used. Solvents are often not used for this reaction, though there is precedent for the improvement of selectivity with its usage.\n\nPhosphonites are generally more reactive than phosphite esters. They react to produce phosphinates. Heating is also required for the reaction, but pyrolysis of the ester to an acid is a common side reaction. The poor availability of substituted phosphonites limits the usage of this class of reagent in the Arbuzov reaction. Hydroxy, thiol, carboxylic acid, primary and secondary amine functional groups cannot be used with phosphonites in the reaction as they all react with the phosphonite.\n\nPhosphinites are the most reactive class of reagents used in this reaction. They react to produce phosphine oxides. They often require very little heating (45°C) for the reaction to occur and have been known to self-isomerize without the presence of alkyl halides.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1884889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884889", "title": "Tunga penetrans", "text": "Tunga penetrans\n\nTunga penetrans (chigoe flea or jigger) is a parasitic insect found in most tropical and sub-tropical climates. It is native to Central and South America, and has been inadvertently introduced by humans to sub-Saharan Africa.\n\nSynonyms for \"Tunga penetrans\" include \"Sarcopsylla penetrans\", \"Pulex penetrates\", and many others. In its parasitic phase it has significant impact on its host, which include humans and certain other mammalian species. A parasitical infestation of \"T. penetrans\" is called tungiasis.\n\n\"T. penetrans\" is the smallest known flea, at only 1 mm. It is most recognizable in its parasite phase. While embedded under the stratum corneum layer of the skin, it may reach up to 1 cm across. During the first day or two of infestation, the host may feel an itching or irritation which then passes as the area around the flea calluses and becomes insensitive. As the flea's abdomen swells with eggs later in the cycle, the pressure from the swelling may press neighbouring nerves or blood vessels. Depending on the exact site, this can cause sensations ranging from mild irritation to serious discomfort.\n\n\"[credits: Gordon, 1941; Bruce et al, 1942; Grosshans and Pradinaud, 1979; Macias and Sashida, 2000; Muehlen et al, 2003; Sachse et al, 2007]\"\n\nThe colloquial name jigger may be confused with chigger, a parasitical mite. However, the jigger is of the order Siphonaptera as it is a flea. The chigger is a minute arachnid. Mites penetrate the skin and feed on skin cells that are broken down through an enzyme they secrete from their mouthparts, but they will then leave the host. The adult and the larval forms both feed on other animals. This is not the case with \"T. penetrans\", as only the adults feed on mammals, and the mature female remains in the host for the rest of her life.\n\n\"T. penetrans\" is unusual for the 13 known species of the genus \"Tunga\". First, it has a wide distribution: some 88 countries, in the Caribbean, Central and South America, tropical (sub-Saharan) Africa, and India.\nSecond, It can infest a wide variety of hosts: at least 26 different species in over 5 different orders of mammals.\n\nIn contrast, most of the 13 species of \"Tungidae\" are only in the Western hemisphere, and each only targets 1-2 specific warm-blooded hosts.\n\nSeven Tunga species infest only rodents. Two dedicate themselves to armadillos, one to sloths, and another prefers only cattle. Only one, \"Tunga trimamillata\", has also been found infesting humans as well as cows, but only in Ecuador and Peru.\n\nHost species for \"T. penetrans\"'\n\nFor the most part, the chigoe flea lives 2–5 cm below sand, an observation which helps explain its overall distribution. The temperature is generally too hot for the larvae to develop on the surface of the sand and the deeper sand does not have enough oxygen.\n\nIn a study of off-host stages, samples were taken from the top of the soil (to a maximum depth of 1 cm). The presence of \"T. penetrans\" in a soil sample was unaffected by soil temperature, air temperature or air humidity. No life stages of \"T. penetrans\" were found in any outdoor sample.\n\nThere is an observable drop in infestations during the wet season.\n\n\"T. penetrans\" eggs, on average, are 0.6 mm long, The larva will hatch from the egg within one to six days, assuming the environmental conditions (e.g., moisture, humidity, etc.) are favorable.\n\nAfter hatching, the flea will progress through two instar phases. This is unique in that most fleas go through three. Over the course of that development, the flea will first decrease in size from its just-hatched size of 1.5 mm to 1.15 mm (first instar) before growing to 2.9 mm (second instar).\n\nAbout six to eight days after hatching, the larva pupates and builds a cocoon around itself. Because it lives mostly on and below the surface of sand, sand is used to stabilize the cocoon and help to promote its development. An environmental disturbance such as rain or a lack of sand have been shown to decrease incidence, most likely due to decreasing the environmental factors (i.e., sand) on which the flea depends for overall growth. Barring any disturbances to the cocoon, an adult flea will emerge from the puparium after 9–15 days.\n\nMales are still mobile after a blood meal like other fleas, but the female flea burrows head-first into the host's skin, leaving the caudal tip of its abdomen visible through an orifice in a skin lesion. This orifice allows the flea to breathe, defecate, mate and expel eggs while feeding from blood vessels. It lives in the cutaneous and subcutaneous dermal layer.\n\nTungiasis lesions almost always occur on the feet (97%), but may occur on any part of the body. The toes are afflicted over 70% of the time, with periungual folds (around the toenail) a preferred site.\n\nOnly once the female burrows into the skin can reproduction occur, as the male and female show no interest in each other in the wild. The male flea dies after copulation. The female flea continues \"in vivo\" development, described in stages by the Fortaleza classification of tungiasis.\n\nOver the next two weeks, its abdomen swells with up to several hundred to a thousand eggs, which it releases through the caudal orifice to fall to the ground when ready to hatch. The flea then dies and is often the cause of infection as the body rots under the thick scales its body chemistry created to protect it. The eggs mature into adult fleas within three to four weeks and the process begins anew.\n\nIn a seminal paper on the biology and pathology of \"Tunga penetrans\", Eisele \"et al.\" (2003) provided and detailed the five stages of tungiasis, thereby detailing the \"in vivo\" development of the female chigoe flea for the first time. In dividing the natural history of the disease, the Fortaleza Classification formally describes the last part of the female flea's life cycle where it burrows into its host's skin, expels eggs, and dies.\n\nStage 1 is characterized by the penetration of the skin by the female chigoe flea. Running along the body, the female uses its posterior legs to push its body upward by an angle between 45–90 degrees. Penetration then starts, beginning with the proboscis going through the epidermis.\n\nBy stage 2 (days 1–2), penetration is complete and the flea has burrowed most of its body into the skin. Only the anus, the copulatory organs, and four rear air holes in fleas called stigmata remain on the outside of the epidermis. The anus will excrete feces that is thought to attract male fleas for mating, described in a later section. The hypertrophic zone between tergites 2 and 3 in the abdominal region begins to expand a day or two after penetration and takes the appearance of a life belt. During this time, the flea begins to feed on the host's blood.\n\nStage 3 is divided into two substages, the first of which being 2–3 days after penetration is complete. In 3a, maximum hypertrophy is achieved and the flea's midsection swells to the size of a pea.\n\nDue to the expanding flea, the outer layer of the skin is stretched thin, resulting in the appearance of a white halo around the black dot (rear end of the flea) at the center of the lesion. The black dot is the flea's exposed hind legs, respiratory spiracles and reproductive organs.\n\nIn 3b, the chitin exoskeleton of tergites 2 and 3 increase in thickness and gives the structure the look of a mini caldera. Egg release is common in substage 3b, as are fecal coils. The eggs tend to stick to the skin.\nAt about the 3rd week after penetration, stage 4 begins, which is also divided into two substages. In 4a, the flea loses its signs of vitality and appears near death. As a result, the lesion shrinks in size, turns brown, and appears wrinkled. The death of the flea marks the beginning of substage 4b (around day 25 post-penetration) as the body begins to eliminate the parasite through skin repair mechanisms (e.g. shedding and subsequent skin repair). At this phase, the lesion is seen as brown or black.\n\nIf the flea is left within the skin, dangerous complications can occur including secondary infections from trapped bacteria such as staph, strep, enterobacteriaceae, tetanus, etc. Lingering effects may include loss of toenails and toe deformation. These seem to be commonplace especially where heavy infestations combine with unsanitary conditions and poverty.\n\nTungiasis was endemic in pre-Columbian Andean society for centuries before discovery of \"T. penetrans\" as native to the West Indies. The first European description was published in 1526 by Gonzalo Fernández de Oviedo y Valdés, where he discussed the skin infection and its symptoms on crew members from Columbus's \"Santa Maria\" after they were shipwrecked on Haiti. Through ship routes and further expeditions, the chigoe flea was spread to the rest of the world, particularly to the rest of Latin America and Africa. The spread to greater Africa occurred throughout the 17th and 19th centuries, specifically in 1872 when the infected crewmen of the ship \"Thomas Mitchell\" introduced it into Angola by dumping of sand ballast, having sailed from Brazil.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1884890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884890", "title": "Rate of climb", "text": "Rate of climb\n\nIn aeronautics, the rate of climb (RoC) is an aircraft's vertical speed – the positive or negative rate of altitude change with respect to time. In most ICAO member countries, even in otherwise metric countries, this is usually expressed in feet per minute (ft/min); elsewhere, it is commonly expressed in metres per second (m/s). The RoC in an aircraft is indicated with a vertical speed indicator (VSI) or instantaneous vertical speed indicator (IVSI).\n\nThe temporal rate of decrease in altitude is referred to as the rate of descent (RoD) or sink rate. \nA negative rate of climb corresponds to a positive rate of descent: RoD = -RoC.\n\nThere are a number of designated airspeeds relating to optimum rates of ascent, the two most important of these are \"V\" and \"V\".\n\n\"V\" is the indicated forward airspeed for best angle of climb. This is the speed at which an aircraft gains the most altitude in a given horizontal , typically used to avoid a collision with an object a short distance away. By contrast, \"V\" is the indicated airspeed for best rate of climb,\na rate which allows the aircraft to climb to a specified altitude in the minimum amount of regardless of the horizontal distance required. Except at the aircraft’s ceiling, where they are equal, \"V\" is always lower than \"V\".\n\nClimbing at \"V\" allows pilots to maximize altitude gain per horizontal distance. This occurs at the speed for which the difference between thrust and drag is the greatest (maximum excess thrust). In a jet airplane, this is approximately minimum drag speed, occurring at the bottom of the drag vs. speed curve.\n\nClimbing at \"V\" allows pilots to maximize altitude gain per time. This occurs at the speed where the difference between engine power and the power required to overcome the aircraft's drag is greatest (maximum excess power).\n\n\"V\" increases with altitude and \"V\" decreases with altitude until they converge at the airplane's absolute ceiling, the altitude above which the airplane cannot climb in steady flight.\n\nThe Cessna 172 is a four-seat aircraft. At maximum weight it has a \"V\" of indicated airspeed providing a rate of climb of 721 ft/min (3.66 m/s).\n\nRate of climb at maximum power for a small aircraft is typically specified in its normal operating procedures but for large jet airliners it is usually mentioned in emergency operating procedures.\n\n"}
{"id": "1884892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884892", "title": "Observation Peak", "text": "Observation Peak\n\nObservation Peak may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1884893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884893", "title": "Palm tanager", "text": "Palm tanager\n\nThe palm tanager (\"Thraupis palmarum\") is a medium-sized passerine bird. This tanager is a resident breeder from Nicaragua south to Bolivia, Paraguay and southern Brazil. It also breeds on Trinidad and, since 1962, on Tobago. In Trinidad and Tobago, it is known by colloquial names such as the \"palmiste\" and the \"green jean\".\n\nAdult palm tanagers are long and weigh . They are grey to dull olive-green. The flight feathers are blackish, and the long tail is blackish edged with green. A yellow wingbar shows in flight. Sexes are similar, although females may be somewhat paler.\n\nIt occurs in semi-open areas including cultivation and gardens. The bulky cup nest is built in a tree, usually a palm, or under the eaves of a house, and the female incubates three, sometimes two, brown-blotched cream eggs for 14 days, with another 17 days to fledging.\n\nPalm tanagers are social, restless but unwary birds which eat a wide variety of small fruit. They also regularly take some nectar and insects, including caterpillars. The song is fast and squeaky.\n\n"}
{"id": "1884899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884899", "title": "Pyrophone", "text": "Pyrophone\n\nA pyrophone, also known as a \"fire/explosion organ\" or \"fire/explosion calliope\" is a musical instrument in which notes are sounded by explosions, or similar forms of rapid combustion, rapid heating, or the like, such as burners in cylindrical glass tubes, creating light and sound. It was invented by physicist and musician Georges Frédéric Eugène Kastner (born 1852 in Strasbourg, France - died 1882 in Bonn, Germany), son of composer Jean-Georges Kastner, around 1870.\n\nThe pyrophone is similar to the steam calliope, but the difference is that in the calliope the combustion is external to the resonant cavity, whereas the pyrophone is an internal combustion instrument. The difference initially seems insignificant, but external combustion is what gives the calliope its staccatto. Operating under the constant pressures of an external combustion chamber, the calliope merely directs exhaust (HB# 421.22: internal fipple flutes). By controlling the combustion specific to each resonant chamber, the pyrophone has, for better or worse, a greater range of variables in play when producing tones. In a purely mechanical (non-solenoid) calliope, the resulting pressures of external combustion result in between of trigger pressure. In a mechanical pyrophone, trigger weight per key is related to comparatively lower backpressure of combustible gas. Again, the force of combustion happens in the resonance chamber; rather than controlling the exhaust of an explosion that has already happened in order to produce tones, the pyrophone controls the explosion to produce the tone.\n\nPyrophones originated in the 19th century. Byron Higgins, using hydrogen burning within the bottom of an open glass tube, first pointed out that if flame is placed in a glass tube sound may be produced in 1777 and in 1818 Michael Faraday attributed the tones to very rapid explosions. Physicist John Tyndall demonstrated that flame(s) in a tube may be made to sound if they are placed close to one third the length of the tube, the explosion occurs at a rate which matches the fundamental or one of the harmonics of the tube, and the volume of the flame is not too great. Brewer, Moigno, and de Parville describe Kastner as having invented the instrument about twenty years before 1890, and he filed a patent on Christmas Eve of 1874. Charles Gounod attempted to include the organ in his opera \"Jeanne d'Arc\" (1873) and the instrument was shown in the Paris Exhibition (1878). Henry Dunant was a proponent, and Wendelin Weißheimer composed \"Five Sacred Sonnets for Voice, Flute, Oboe, Clarinet, Pyrophone and Piano\" (1880).\n\nPyrophones are usually powered by propane, but gasoline powered mobile units have been built, to connect to automobile fuel intake manifolds and use the spark plugs and wiring, etc., to detonate one or more of the chambers. Hydrogen pyrophones are often made using upside-down glass test tubes as the combustion chambers. Different colors were probably not achieved in Kastner's time, but would be possible with the addition of salts to the flames.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1884902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884902", "title": "Alfonsyna Miączyńska", "text": "Alfonsyna Miączyńska\n\nCountess Alfonsyna Miączyńska (1838-1919) was a Polish noblewoman and landowner.\n\nAlfonsyna was owner of Pieniaki, Majdany and Zatożyce estates. She married Count Włodzimierz Dzieduszycki on September 19, 1853, in Lwów.\n"}
{"id": "1884911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884911", "title": "Thomas Pappas", "text": "Thomas Pappas\n\nThomas M. Pappas is a former United States Army colonel who is a civilian intelligence officer with the Army's Training and Doctrine Command at Fort Eustis, Virginia.\n\nHe was the Brigade Commander of the 205th Military Intelligence Brigade and the senior military intelligence officer at Abu Ghraib prison during the Abu Ghraib prisoner abuse scandal, which brought him significant notoriety. In May 2005, Pappas was disciplined by the Army for failing to properly supervise and train subordinates and for allowing military dogs to be present during prisoner interrogations.\n\nPrior to entering the army, he attended Rutgers University in New Jersey and received his Master of Science degree from Central Michigan University. He also has a Master of Arts from the Naval War College in Newport, Rhode Island.\n\nIn June 2004, Captain Donald Reese, the Commanding Officer of the 372nd Military Police Company, testified that Colonel Pappas was the senior officer present during the death in custody of Manadel al-Jamadi. Military pathologists later ruled the death a homicide. During Sabrina Harman's article 32 hearing, Reese testified that Pappas commented about Manadel's death \"I'm not going down for this alone.\"\n\nMajor General George Fay was appointed by General Paul Kern to conduct an investigation of prisoner abuse at the Joint Interrogation Debriefing Center (JIDC) in Abu Ghraib prison. His findings were released in August 2004 and were known as the Fay Report. He concluded that Pappas failed to properly organize the JIDC and ensure it performed its mission within applicable regulations, failed to incorporate checks and balances to prevent abuses, and failed to ensure his personnel were properly trained for the mission. Fay also found that Pappas showed poor judgment by leaving Lieutenant Colonel Steven L. Jordan in charge of the JIDC during critical stages and improperly authorized the use of dogs during interrogations, failed to take action regarding International Committee of the Red Cross reports of abuse, failed to take aggressive action against soldiers who violated procedures and the Geneva Conventions, failed to report that his unit would be unable to accomplish its mission due to lack of manpower and resources and allowed his subordinates to be subjected to inordinate pressures from higher headquarters, and failed to establish appropriate coordination between military intelligence and military police which would have alleviated confusion surrounding the abusive environment at the prison. Fay acknowledged that a significant number of systemic failures had occurred during the course of the scandal but asserted this did not relieve Pappas of his command responsibilities and recommended that Pappas' chain of command take action accordingly.\n\nIn May 2005, Pappas received non-judicial punishment for two counts of dereliction of duty under the Uniform Code of Military Justice for failing to ensure that subordinates were adequately trained and supervised in application of interrogation procedures and for failing to obtain approval of superiors before authorizing the presence of military working dogs during prisoner interrogations.\n\nIn November 2006, human rights attorney Wolfgang Kaleck filed a high-profile criminal complaint at the German Public Prosecutor General against Donald Rumsfeld and several other US officials and officers including Thomas Pappas for their alleged involvement in human rights violations at the Abu Ghraib prison.\nHowever, legal scholars speculated shortly thereafter that the case had little chance of successfully making it through the German court system.\n\nIn May 2007, a book written by Stanford psychology professor Philip Zimbardo, \"The Lucifer Effect\", questioned the mental stability of Pappas when the abuses at Abu Ghraib were committed, suggesting that after surviving a mortar attack killing Pappas's driver, Pappas exhibited erratic behavior.\n\nIn August 2007, Pappas was granted immunity in return for his testimony at the court-martial of his subordinate Lieutenant Colonel Steven L. Jordan.\n\nDuring his career, Colonel Pappas was awarded the Legion of Merit, the Bronze Star, the Meritorious Service Medal with six oak leaf clusters, the Army Commendation Medal with two oak leaf clusters, and the Army Achievement Medal with two oak leaf clusters, the National Defense Service Medal with one service star, the Armed Forces Expeditionary Medal, the Southwest Asia Service Medal with three service stars, the Armed Forces Service Medal, and the Armed Forces Reserve Medal.\n\n"}
{"id": "1884916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884916", "title": "Roger Borsa", "text": "Roger Borsa\n\nRoger Borsa (1060/61 – 22 February 1111) was the Norman Duke of Apulia and Calabria and effective ruler of southern Italy from 1085 until his death. He was the son of Robert Guiscard, the conqueror of southern Italy and Sicily; Roger was not as adept as his father, and most of his reign was spent in feudal anarchy.\n\nRoger was the son of Robert Guiscard and Sikelgaita, an imposing warrior Lombard noblewoman. \n\nHis ambitious mother arranged for Roger to succeed his father in place of Robert Guiscard's eldest son by another wife, Bohemund of Taranto. According to English historian John Julius Norwich, his nickname came from \"his early-ingrained habit of counting and recounting his money.\"\n\nIn 1073, Sichelgaita had Roger proclaimed heir after Guiscard fell ill at Trani. Roger's cousin Abelard was the only baron to dissent from the election of Roger, claiming that he was the rightful heir to the duchy. Roger accompanied his father on a campaign to Greece in 1084. He was still in Greece when his father died on 17 July 1085 in Kefalonia. While Bohemond was supposed to inherit the Greek possessions and Roger the Italian ones, it was Bohemund who was in Italy (Salerno) and Roger in Greece (Bundicia) at the time of the Guiscard's passing. \n\nRoger rejoined his mother on Cephalonia, his absence causing panic and confusion with his army, according to Goffredo Malaterra. The two quickly returned to the peninsula and with the support of Roger I of Sicily, his uncle, was recognised as duke in September. His Lombard heritage also made him a more attractive candidate than his Norman half-brother, who had fled to Capua. With the support of Jordan I of Capua, Bohemund rebelled against his brother and took Oria, Otranto, and Taranto. Roger, however, made peace in March 1086 and the brothers acted as effective co-rulers. In late Summer 1087, Bohemond renewed the war with the support of some of his brother's vassals. He surprised and defeated Roger at Fragneto and retook Taranto. Though described as a powerful warrior (he took the cities of Benevento, Canosa, Capua, and Lucera by siege), Roger Borsa was never able to check Bohemund's power or bring him under his control. The war was finally resolved by the mediation of Pope Urban II and the award of Taranto and other possessions to Bohemund. Roger also granted him Cosenza and other holdings he desired allodially. In 1089 Roger Borsa was officially invested with the duchy of Apulia by Pope Urban II. \n\nRoger permitted the minting of baronial coinage in at least two instances (Fulco of Basacers and Manso \"vicedux\"). He planned to urbanise the Mezzogiorno by granting charters to various towns and encouraging urban planning. In 1090, he and Urban encouraged Bruno of Cologne, founder of the Carthusian Order to accept election to the archbishopric of Reggio di Calabria. \n\nIn May 1098, at the request of his first cousin once removed, Prince Richard II of Capua, Borsa and his uncle Count Roger I of Sicily began the siege of Capua, from which the prince had long ago been exiled as a minor. In exchange for his assistance, the duke received the homage of Richard, though he seems to have made no use of it, for Richard's successors paid no heed to Roger Borsa's overlordship. Capua fell after forty days of notable besieging, for Pope Urban II had come to meet Roger of Sicily and Archbishop Anselm of Canterbury had come to meet the pope. \n\nIn October 1104, Roger besieged William, Count of Monte Sant'Angelo, who was at that time independent and pledged to the Byzantines, and expelled him from the Gargano, abolishing the county. \n\nIn 1092, Roger Borsa married Adela, the daughter of Robert I, Count of Flanders, and widow of Canute IV of Denmark. She bore him three sons: Louis, who died young in August 1094; William, who succeeded him; and Guiscard, who died young in August 1108.\n\nBy a concubine, Roger had at least one other son, William of Gesualdo.\n\n"}
{"id": "1884923", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884923", "title": "Stadion-Thannhausen", "text": "Stadion-Thannhausen\n\nStadion-Thannhausen was a county located in and around Thannhausen in western Bavaria, Germany. Stadion-Thannhausen was a partition of Stadion, and was mediatised to Bavaria in 1806.\n\n"}
{"id": "1884924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884924", "title": "Hierotheos the Thesmothete", "text": "Hierotheos the Thesmothete\n\nHierotheos the Thesmothete () is the reputed first head and bishop of the Christian Athenians. The title \"thesmothete\" means ruler, or junior archon, of Athens (literally \"rule-setter\").\n\nLittle is known of Hierotheos (Ἰερόθεος \"sanctified by God\"); church tradition holds that he was one of the learned men in the city of Athens. He was instructed in Christianity by the Apostle Paul, who baptized and ordained him around the year 53. Hierotheos frequently visited and instructed St. Dionysius the Areopagite. There is disagreement as to whether Hierotheos was actually a priest or bishop; some traditions describe Dionysius as the first bishop of Athens.\nThe fifth century Neoplatonist, Pseudo-Dionysius spoke of Hierotheos. However, Pseudo-Dionysius adopted the earlier Dionysius as a pseudonym and literary device and thus he did not in fact know the original Hierotheos and the description of Hierotheos and his works that Pseudo Dionysius supplied was either purely fictional or a veiled tribute to a fifth-century contemporary of Pseudo-Dionysius. Thus there was an Hierotheos and there was also a Pseudo-Hierotheos.\n\nAccording to Pseudo-Dionysius (\"On the Divine Names\", 3:2), Hierotheos was an accomplished hymnographer:\n\nHierotheos was reportedly present during the dormition of the Theotokos (Mary, the Mother of God), and he stood in the midst of the apostles and comforted them with spiritual songs and hymns which he sang accompanied with musical instruments.\n\n"}
{"id": "1884926", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884926", "title": "Oerlikon 20 mm cannon", "text": "Oerlikon 20 mm cannon\n\nThe Oerlikon 20 mm cannon is a series of autocannons, based on an original German Becker Type M2 20 mm cannon design that appeared very early in World War I. It was widely produced by Oerlikon Contraves and others, with various models employed by both Allied and Axis forces during World War II, and many versions are still in use today.\n\nDuring World War I, the German industrialist developed a 20 mm caliber cannon, known now as the 20 mm Becker using the Advanced Primer Ignition blowback (API blowback) method of operation. This used a 20×70mmRB cartridge and had a cyclic rate of fire of 300 rpm. It was used on a limited scale as an aircraft gun on \"Luftstreitkräfte\" warplanes, and an anti-aircraft gun towards the end of that war.\n\nBecause the Treaty of Versailles banned further production of such weapons in Germany, the patents and design works were transferred in 1919 to the Swiss firm SEMAG (\"Seebach Maschinenbau Aktien Gesellschaft\") based near Zürich. SEMAG continued development of the weapon, and in 1924 had produced the \"SEMAG L\", a heavier weapon (43 kg) that fired more powerful 20×100mmRB ammunition at a slightly higher rate of fire, 350 rpm.\n\nIn 1924 SEMAG failed. The Oerlikon firm, named after the Zürich suburb of Oerlikon where it was based, then acquired all rights to the weapon, plus the manufacturing equipment and the employees of SEMAG.\n\nIn 1927 the \"Oerlikon S\" was added to the existing product line. This fired a still larger cartridge (20x110RB) to achieve a muzzle velocity of 830 m/s (versus 490 m/s for the original Becker 20x70RB gun), at the cost of increased weight and a reduced rate of fire (280 rpm). The purpose of this development was to improve the performance of the gun as an anti-tank and anti-aircraft weapon, which required a higher muzzle velocity. An improved version known as the 1S followed in 1930.\n\nThree sizes of gun with their different ammunition and barrel length, but very similar mechanisms, continued to be developed in parallel. In 1930 Oerlikon reconsidered the application of its gun in aircraft and introduced the \"AF\" and \"AL\", designed to be used in flexible mounts, i.e. manually aimed by a gunner. The 15-round box magazine used by earlier versions of the gun was replaced by drum magazine holding 15 or 30 rounds.\n\nIn 1935 it made an important step by introducing a series of guns designed to be mounted in or on the wings of fighter aircraft. Designated with FF for \"Flügelfest\" meaning \"wing-mounted\", these weapons were again available in the three sizes, with designations \"FF\", \"FFL\" and \"FFS\". The FF fired a slightly larger cartridge than the AF, 20x72RB, but the major improvement in these weapons was a significant increase in rate of fire. The FF weighed 24 kg and achieved a muzzle velocity of 550 to 600 m/s with a rate of fire of 520 rpm. The FFL of 30 kg fired a projectile at a muzzle velocity of 675 m/s with a rate of fire of 500 rpm. And the FFS, which weighed 39 kg, delivered a high muzzle velocity of 830 m/s at a rate of fire of 470 rpm.\n\nApart from changes to the design of the guns for wing-mounting and remote control, larger drums were introduced as it would not be possible to exchange magazines in flight. For the FF series drum sizes of 45, 60, 75 and 100 rounds were available, but most users chose the 60-round drum.\n\nThe 1930s were a period of global re-armament, and a number of foreign firms took licenses for the Oerlikon family of aircraft cannon. In France, Hispano-Suiza manufactured development of the FFS as the Hispano-Suiza HS.7 and\nHispano-Suiza HS.9, for installation between the cylinder banks of its V-12 engines. In Germany, Ikaria further developed the FF gun as the MG FF, firing 20x80RB ammunition. And the Imperial Japanese Navy, after evaluating all three guns, ordered developments of the FF and FFL as the Type 99-1 and Type 99-2.\n\nThe incorporation of the improvements of the FFS in a new anti-aircraft gun produced, in 1938, the \"Oerlikon SS\". Oerlikon realized further improvements in rate of fire on the 1SS of 1942, and the 2SS of 1945 which achieved 650 rpm. However, it was the original SS gun which was widely adopted as anti-aircraft gun, being especially widely used by\nAllied navies during World War II.\n\nThis gun used a 400-grain (26-gram) charge of IMR 4831 smokeless powder to propel a 2,000-grain (130-gram) projectile at 2,800 feet (850 meters) per second.\n\nThe Oerlikon FF was installed as armament on some fighters of the 1930s, such as the Polish PZL P.24G. Locally produced derivatives of the Oerlikon cannon were used much more extensively, on aircraft, on ships and on land. In the air, the Ikaria MG FF was used as armament on a number of German aircraft, of which the most famous is the Messerschmitt Bf 109. The Japanese Navy similarly used their copy of the FF, designated the Type 99 Mark One cannon on a number of types including the Mitsubishi A6M Zero. Later in the war, they also equipped fighters including the Zero with the Type 99 Mark Two, a version of the more powerful and faster-firing Oerlikon FFL.\n\nThe French firm of Hispano-Suiza was a manufacturer of aircraft engines, and it marketed the \"moteur-canon\" combination of its 12X and 12Y engines with a H.S.7 or H.S.9 cannon installed between the cylinder banks. The gun fired through the hollow propeller hub, this being elevated above the crankcase by the design of the gearing. Such armament was installed on the Morane-Saulnier M.S.406 and some other types. Similar German installations of the MG FF were not successful.\n\nThe Oerlikon became best known in its naval applications. Initially the Oerlikon was not looked upon favorably by the Royal Navy as a short-range anti-aircraft gun. All through 1937-1938 Lord Louis Mountbatten, then a Captain in the Royal Navy, waged a lone campaign within the Royal Navy to set up an unprejudiced trial for the Oerlikon 20 mm gun, but it was all in vain. It was not until the Commander-in-Chief of the Home Fleet, Admiral Sir Roger Backhouse, was appointed First Sea Lord that Mountbatten's efforts bore fruit. During the first half of 1939 a contract for 1,500 guns was placed in Switzerland. However, due to delays and then later the Fall of France in June 1940, only 109 guns reached the United Kingdom. All Oerlikon guns imported from Switzerland, in 1940, were mounted on various gun carriages to serve as light AA-guns on land.\n\nJust a few weeks before the Fall of France, the Oerlikon factory approved manufacture of their gun in the United Kingdom, under licence. The Royal Navy managed to smuggle out the necessary drawings and documents from Zürich. The production of the first British-made Oerlikon guns started in Ruislip, London, at the end of 1940. The first guns were delivered to the Royal Navy in March or April, 1941. The RAF Regiment made extensive use of Oerlikon guns in the anti-aircraft role. These were the principal armament for its Light Anti-Aircraft squadrons in North Africa, the Middle East, Italy, and North Western Europe, until the introduction of the Bofors 40/L60 40mm gun from 1943, although many squadrons retained a mix of guns until the end of World War 2. Squadrons in the Far East were equipped exclusively with Oerlikons.\n\nThe Oerlikon gun was installed aboard United States Navy ships from 1942, replacing the M2 Browning machine gun, which lacked range and firepower, and largely superseding the 1.1\"/75 caliber gun, which was heavier and had less mechanical reliability. It became famous in the naval anti-aircraft role, providing an effective defense at short ranges (in practice up to 1.5 km) at which heavier guns had difficulty tracking a target. The gun was eventually abandoned as a major anti-air weapon due to its lack of stopping power against heavy aircraft and against Japanese \"kamikaze\" attacks during the Pacific War. It was largely superseded by the Bofors 40 mm gun and the 3\"/50 Mark 22 gun. It provided a useful increase in firepower over the .50 cal machine gun when adapted and fitted to some aircraft. However, it had some problems with jamming in the ammunition feed.\n\nThe Royal Canadian Navy popularized the use of the Oerlikon gun as an anti-ship and anti-submarine gun - while it was not effective against the armour of most larger ships, it was used extensively and effectively against U-Boats, and on the decks of larger ships. A handful of corvettes were fitted with the weapon toward the end of the war, but it appeared more commonly on frigates and destroyers at the time.\n\nThe Oerlikon was also used as the basis for the Polsten gun, designed by Polish engineers in exile in the United Kingdom. The gun went into service in 1944, and was used well into the 1950s, among other uses, on Cromwell tanks and early model Centurion tanks.\n\nRomania purchased 45 pieces from Germany during the first half of World War II.\n\nIt is still in use today on some naval units, theoretically as a last-recourse anti-air weapon, but mainly used for firing warning shots or incapacitating small vessels.\n\nVery unusually for a high-powered autocannon, the Oerlikon and its derivatives feature blowback operation: the bolt is not locked to the breech of the gun at the moment of firing. Non-locking, simple blowback designs are commonplace in much lighter weapons, such as small-caliber semi-automatic pistols. No locking is required, as with such low-power cartridges the static inertia of the bolt or bolt and slide - the physical tendency of heavy components to resist rapid acceleration - is adequate to ensure that the projectile has left the muzzle and the gas pressure in the barrel is down to a safe level before the breech opens (while the bolt spring also resists the opening of the breech, in practical terms its contribution is too small to be relevant). In contrast, 20mm cartridges are far too powerful, and efficient autocannon barrels too long, for this basic system to be practical; so the Oerlikon uses Advanced Primer Ignition (API) to augment the resistance of the bolt. In API blowback weapons, the firing pin fires the cartridge while the bolt is still traveling forward so that the gas pressure has to overcome the forward momentum of the bolt as well, before it can push it to the rear. To facilitate this, the Oerlikon's chamber is longer than needed to contain the cartridge, and the end of the bolt, which is the same diameter as the case, actually enters this extended chamber behind the cartridge before firing. As a result, when firing occurs, the forward force of the bolt and spring acts against the force of the propellant gases until the latter overcome the former and start pushing case, bolt and spring backwards. If the bolt had stopped at the mouth of the chamber as in a simple blowback gun, this momentum would be neutralized and the additional forward oppositional force would not exist. A second advantage of this unusual arrangement is that after firing, the bolt and case have a short, but significant, distance to travel rearwards before the bolt-end re-emerges and the case in turn begins to leave the chamber—providing more time for gas pressure to drop to the necessary safe level. This system permits blowback to be used in far more powerful weapons than normal. Nevertheless, compared to guns with a locking mechanism a fairly heavy bolt must be employed; while to give this heavy bolt sufficient forward speed, a large spring is required (and Oerlikons, distinctively, have this component wrapped around their barrels.) These features will limit the rate of fire of such guns, unless other steps are taken—as in the final model of the Japanese 99 Mark 2.\n\nThis unique chamber and bolt design necessitates the use of a characteristically shaped cartridge: the case has straight sides, very little neck, and a rebated rim. The straight sides allows the case to slide back and forward in the cylindrical chamber. The neck is not supported while this happens and therefore expands when the case is fired, and the rebated rim allows the face of the bolt, with its extractor claw hooked over the rim, to fit within the chamber. To ease the motion of the case, the ammunition needed to be greased, which was a drawback of the Oerlikon cannon. An alternative developed during World War II was the so-called fluted chamber, which had grooves that allowed propellant gas to seep between the chamber wall and the case, taking over the role of the grease.\n\nAmmunition feed is typically by a 60-round drum magazine on the top of the gun. During sustained firing, the magazine must be frequently changed, reducing the effective rate of fire. Belt-fed versions of the gun were developed to overcome this limitation. A trigger in the right-hand grip controls fire. Used cartridges are ejected from below the breech.\n\nDifferent nations and services operated a number of mounting types for the same basic gun. In a typical single-barrel naval version, it is free-swinging on a fixed pedestal mounting with a flat armored shield affording some protection for the crew. The cannon is aimed and fired by a gunner using, in its simplest form, a ring-and-bead sight. The gunner is attached to the weapon by a waist-belt and shoulder supports. For this reason, some mountings existed with a height-adjustment feature to compensate for different sized gunners. A \"piece chief\" designates targets and the feeder changes exhausted magazines.\n\nDuring World War II, twin and quadruple Oerlikon mounts were developed, both for army and for navy use. The British Navy operated a hydraulically operated twin-gun mount. The US Navy operated a quad mount developed for PT boats by Elco Naval Division, Electric Boat Company, called the Elco \"Thunderbolt\" Mount. Prototypes were built and tested in late 1942 and operationally deployed on several Elco PT Boats in the Mediterranean. It was also placed experimentally on the battleships , , , , , , and training ship .\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1884933", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884933", "title": "Trombicula", "text": "Trombicula\n\nTrombicula is a genus of harvest mites (also known as red bugs, scrub-itch mites, berry bugs, or in their larval stage, as chiggers or chigoe) in the Trombiculidae family. In their larval stage, they attach to various animals, including humans, and feed on skin, often causing itching. These relatives of ticks are nearly microscopic, measuring 0.4 mm (0.01 in) and have a chrome-orange hue. A common species of harvest mite in North America is \"Trombicula alfreddugesi\"; in the UK, the most prevalent harvest mite is \"Trombicula autumnalis\".\n\nThe larval mites feed on the skin cells, but not blood, of animals. The six-legged parasitic larva feeds on a large variety of creatures, including humans, rabbits, toads, box turtles, quail, and even some insects. After crawling onto their hosts, they inject digestive enzymes into the skin that break down skin cells. They do not actually \"bite\", but instead form a hole in the skin called a stylostome, and chew up tiny parts of the inner skin, thus causing severe irritation and swelling. The severe itching is accompanied by red pimple-like bumps (papules) or hives and skin rash or lesions on a sun-exposed area. For humans, itching usually occurs after the larvae detach from the skin.\n\nAfter feeding on their hosts, the larvae drop to the ground and become nymphs, then mature into adults, which have eight legs and are harmless to humans. In the postlarval stage, they are not parasitic and feed on plant materials. The females lay three to eight eggs in a clutch, usually on a leaf or under the roots of a plant, and die by autumn.\n\nHarvest mites are found throughout the world. In Europe and North America, they tend to be more prevalent in the hot and humid parts. In the more temperate regions, they are found only in the summer (in French, harvest mites are called \"aoûtat\", after \"août\", August; \"vendangeon\", after \"vendange\", harvest; or \"rouget\", after \"rouge\", red). In the United States, they are found mostly in the southeast, the south, and the Midwest. They are not present, or barely found, in far northern areas, high mountains, or deserts. They live in forests and grasslands, and are also found in low, damp areas where vegetation is rank, such as woodlands, berry patches, orchards, along lakes and streams, and even in drier places where vegetation is low, such as lawns, golf courses, and parks. They are most numerous in early summer, when grass, weeds, and other vegetation are most prevalent. Harvest mites can also find their way into homes, and onto human hosts, on decorative Spanish moss.\n\nThe genus \"Trombicula\" has 16 species recorded from North America:\n\n\nOther species include \"Trombicula batatas\" and \"Trombicula hirsti\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1884936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884936", "title": "Ya'qub ibn al-Layth al-Saffar", "text": "Ya'qub ibn al-Layth al-Saffar\n\nYa'qūb ibn al-Layth al-Saffār (), or Ya'qūb-i Layth-i Saffārī (; 25 October 840 – 5 June 879), was a Persian coppersmith and the founder of the Saffarid dynasty of Sistan, with its capital at Zaranj (a city now in south-western Afghanistan). Under his military leadership he conquered much of the eastern portions of the Greater Iran consisting of modern-day Iran, Afghanistan, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan, Tajikistan as well as portions of western Pakistan and a small part of Iraq. He was succeeded by his brother, Amr ibn al-Layth.\n\nYa'qub was born in 840 in a small town called \"Karnin\" (Qarnin), which was located east of Zaranj and west of Bost, in what is now Afghanistan. Information about his genealogy and social background is lacking. Clifford Edmund Bosworth explains that a number of Sunni sources were invariably hostile to Ya'qub because of the disrespect he showed toward the Abbasid caliph. \"Some sources accused Ya'qub of being a Khariji, Ibn Khallikan labelled him a Christian, and Nizam al-Mulk claimed that he converted to Ismailism\". However, these claims came roughly a century after Yaqub's death, and most sources agree on Ya'qub's ascetic lifestyle.\n\nAbu Nasr al-Farabi states in his book \"Ara'ahl al-Midnia al-Fadilah\" that Yaqub was indeed a Sunni Muslim and that his armies had marched and conquered with the blessing of the Abbasid Caliph early on in Ya'qub's career. His later hostility towards the Abbasids was not religious but rather political.\n\nMany sources claim that he lived a very poor life, and it is mentioned that he sometimes ate bread and onions due to poverty. His family moved to the city of Zaranj due to the occasional sectarian violence between the Sunnis and Kharijites. His father, Laith, was probably killed before the family arrived in the new city. Ya'qub began work as a coppersmith (\"\"saffar\"\"), while his brother Amr ibn al-Layth worked as a mule-hirer.\n\nYa'qub, along with his brothers Amr ibn al-Layth, Tahir ibn al-Layth and Ali ibn al-Layth, later joined the ayyars under Salih ibn al-Nadr, who had opposed the Abbasids and began ruling in Bost. By 854, the ayyars managed to expel Ibrahim ibn al-Hudain, who was the Tahirid governor of Sistan. In 858, Dirham ibn Nasr, another ayyar leader, managed to replace Salih as the ruler of Sistan. However, in 861, Ya'qub overthrew Dirham, and gave himself the title of Emir at that point.\n\nYa'qub attracted the attention of an Abbasid caliph by first battling Kharijites in his homeland of Sistan. In 864, \"Yaʿqub led an expedition to Bost against his former master Salih, and then into Rukkaj and Zamindāvar against the local ruler there, the Zunbil, killing him and securing an immense booty.\" He also managed to capture several family members of the Zunbils, including the Zunbil king's son. He later moved against the Kharijites in northern Sistan, winning a decisive victory and killing their leader Ammar ibn Yaser in 865. Ya'qub's campaigns marked the decline of militant Kharijism in the East. After having defeated the Ammar, Ya'qub held a celebration. During the celebration, one of the members of the court made a speech in Arabic. Ya'qub asked the latter why he made a speech in a language which he could not understand. One of Ya'qub's secretaries, Muhammad ibn Vasif, then made a \"qasida\" in Persian.\n\nYa'qub claimed the inheritance of the kings of Persia and sought \"to revive their glory,\" and thus in 867 he sent a poem written by himself to the Abbasid caliph Al-Mu'tazz. The poem said: \"With me is the \"Derafsh Kaviani\", through which I hope to rule the nations.\"\n\nIn 870/871, Ya'qub marched against the Kharijites of Herat, and defeated them. He then marched towards Karukh, and defeated another Khariji leader who was named Abd al-Rahman. Ya'qub then pardoned Abd al-Rahman and made him governor of Isfizar.\n\nHis army would later march to Ghazna, Kabul, and Bamyan, conquering these territories in the name of Islam by appointing Muslim governors. From there they moved to north of the Hindu Kush and by 870 AD the whole of Khorasan was brought under their control. The Panjshir Valley was now under Ya'qub's control, which made him able to mint silver coins. In 873, Ya'qub ousted the Tahirids from their own capital of Nishapur, and captured its ruler Muhammad ibn Tahir, which led to conflicts with the Abbasid caliphate. During one of Ya'qub's numerous battles, his face was disfigured to where he could only eat through a pipe in his mouth for twenty days.\n\nYa'qub set out west for Fars with the intention of subjugating the province. Sources disagree on what happened next, but Ya'qub was eventually dissuaded from continuing his expedition, and he turned back toward Sistan. His withdrawal is described as having been caused either by the governor Muhammad ibn Wasil's submission to him, or by the arrival of emissaries sent by the caliphal government to convince him to abandon his westward advance. In either case, Muhammad soon afterwards reached a rapprochement with the central government, and in 872 he handed over the kharaj (tax revenues), and possibly the government of Fars, to a caliphal representative. Ya'qub later traveled to Tabaristan in 874, and battled the Zaydid leader al-Hasan ibn Zayd. Ya'qub collected taxes in Tabaristan's capital Amul before departing for Rayy.\n\nYa'qub ibn al-Layth once again set out for Fars, this time, invading it and advancing to Estakhr, seizing Muhammad's treasuries there. Muhammad departed from Khuzestan, and returned to Fars in an attempt to stop Ya'qub. They met near Lake Bakhtegan in August 875, and in the resulting battle, Muhammad, despite having a numerically superior army, was defeated. Muhammad was forced to flee; Ya'qub looted Muhammad's stronghold at Sa'idabad and took control of Fars.\n\nIn 876, the Abbasid representative Al-Muwaffaq offered Ya'qub governorship of Khurasan, Tabaristan, Fars, Gurgan, and Ray, and to appoint him as head of security in Baghdad. Ya'qub, sensing that the offer was made due to the weakness of the caliph, rejected it and wrote back that he would be advancing to the capital. The offer also alienated the Turks of Samarra, who felt that Ya'qub represented a threat to their interests. Seeing that an agreement with the Saffarid was impossible, the Abbasid caliph al-Mu'tamid decided upon war and pronounced a formal curse upon Ya'qub. On 7 March 876, al-Mu'tamid left Samarra, leaving his son Al-Mufawwad in charge of the capital. On 15 March he arrived at Baghdad, before arriving near Kalwadha and setting up camp.\n\nYa'qub traveled through Khuzistan, during which he gained the defection of a former general of the caliph's, Abi'l-Saj Devdad, and entered Iraq. The caliphal general Masrur al-Balkhi managed to slow down his progress by flooding the land outside Wasit, but the Saffarid army was able to get through this and he entered Wasit on 24 March. Leaving Wasit, he set out for the town of Dayr al-`Aqul, which was about fifty miles from Baghdad. According to one source, Ya'qub did not actually expect the caliph to offer battle; instead he would give in to any demands that the Saffarid had. Al-Mu'tamid, however, sent al-Muwaffaq to stop him. The two armies met at Istarband, between Dayr al-`Aqul and Sib Bani Kuma.\n\nThe battle took place on 8 April. Before the battle, Ya'qub reviewed his troops, who apparently numbered about ten thousand. The Abbasids, however, had a numerical superiority and the additional advantage of fighting on familiar territory. The center of the Abbasid army was commanded by al-Muwaffaq. Musa bin Bugha had command of the right wing, and Masrur al-Balkhi the left. A final appeal was made to the Saffarids to restore their loyalty to the caliph, and the battle began.\n\nThe fighting raged on for most of the day. The Saffarid army was somewhat reluctant to directly fight the caliph and his army. Despite this, there were heavy losses on both sides, and several Abbasid and Saffarid commanders were killed. Ya'qub himself was wounded, but he did not leave the field. As evening approached, reinforcements arrived to support al-Muwaffaq. The \"mawla\" Nusayr created a diversion by attacking the Saffarid rear from boats on the Tigris and setting fire to the Saffarid baggage train, giving the Abbasids a further advantage.\n\nEventually the Saffarid army began to flee from the battle. Ya'qub and his bodyguards continued to fight, but were forced to leave the field as the army retreated, leaving them behind. The caliph had apparently flooded the lands behind the Saffarids before the battle, and this made a retreat difficult; many men drowned attempting to escape the Abbasid army. With the Saffarids making their hasty exit, al-Muwaffaq was able to capture Ya'qub's baggage. Several political prisoners that Ya'qub had brought with him, such as the Tahirid Muhammad bin Tahir, also fell into Abbasid hands and were freed.\n\nYa'qub then withdrew from Iraq and died three years later.\n\nThe motivation behind the Saffarids' initial campaigns remains unknown and highly debated in secondary scholarship. Some scholars believe that Ya'qub fought as a ghazi warrior for the purpose of spreading proto-Sunni Islam, others support the notion that he was motivated by his Persian identity and consequent desire to restore the glorious Sasanian past, while still others believe he was simply motivated by greed and adrenaline. Ya'qub's hostility towards the Abbasid caliphs was easily seen. According to the \"Tarikh-i Sistan\", Ya'qub even said that the Abbasids were liars, and also said: \"Haven't you seen what they did to Abu Salama, Abu Muslim, the Barmakid family and Fadl ibn Sahl, despite everything which these men had done on the dynasty's behalf? Let no one ever trust them!\"\n\nYa'qub suffered from colic and was refusing treatments when advised to do so. As a result, he died on Wednesday, 5 June 879, in Gundeshapur. He was soon after succeeded by his brother Amr Saffari. Although he was not viewed as a gentleman, he also did not exercise any special cruelty. It was reported that he did not smile much, and was called \"the anvil\" by one of his enemies. According to Ibn Khallikan, his wife was an Arab woman from Sistan, although all other sources, including Ibn Athir and Juzjani, claim that Yaqub never married.\n\nIt was during Ya'qub's rule that Persian was introduced as an official language, and Ya'qub reportedly did not know Arabic. Ya'qub has been accorded the historical status of a popular folk hero since his court began the revitalization of the Persian language after two centuries in which the Arabic language flourished in Persian lands. Several poets, like Abu Ishaq Ibrahim ibn Mamshadh, fabricated Ya'qub's genealogy, tracing it back to the legendary Iranian king Jamshid. Ya'qub is also sometimes perceived as one of the first autonomous rulers in Khurasan since the Islamic conquests. Ya'qub's campaigns in fact also marked the early stage in the decline of caliphal political unity in the Islamic world, which was further worsened by the \"ghulams\" and the Dailamites.\n\n"}
{"id": "1884938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884938", "title": "Baker's Dozen (solitaire)", "text": "Baker's Dozen (solitaire)\n\nBaker's Dozen is a solitaire card game using a deck of fifty-two playing cards. The game is so called because of the 13 columns in the game, the number in a baker's dozen.\n\nFirst, the cards are dealt into columns of four on the tableau, resulting in 13 columns. Any king that is in the top or middle of each column must be placed on the bottom before the game starts. Two kings that are mixed into one column are placed on the bottom without changing their order.\n\nThe object of the game is to build all the cards onto the four foundations. The player must first free up the four aces and if one of them is found, it is placed on the foundation. Building on the foundation is up by suit, each from ace to king.\n\nOnly the top cards of each column are available. Cards on the tableau, if they cannot be placed on the foundations yet, can be built down regardless of suit. Furthermore, once all cards are taken out of a column, the column can never be filled.\n\nThe game is won when all cards end up in the foundations.\n\nHere are some variations of Baker's Dozen:\n\n"}
{"id": "1884939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884939", "title": "Marla Runyan", "text": "Marla Runyan\n\nMarla Lee Runyan (married name Lonergan, born January 4, 1969) is an American track and field athlete, road runner and marathon runner who is legally blind. She is a three-time national champion in the women's 5000 metres.\n\nRunyan was born in Santa Maria, California. After graduating from Camarillo High School in 1987, she went on to study at San Diego State University, where she began competing in several sporting events: the heptathlon, 200-meter dash, high jump, shot put, 100-meter hurdles, long jump, javelin throw and the 800-meter run. In 1994 she received her master's degree in Education of Deafblind Children.\n\nRunyan won four gold medals at the 1992 Summer Paralympics in the long jump and the 100, 200, and 400 meter races. She also competed in cycling at those games. She attempted to qualify for the \"Able Bodied\" Olympics at the 1996 U. S. Olympic Trials, finishing 10th in the Heptathlon. While failing to qualify, she ran the 800 meters in 2:04.60,\na heptathlon-800m American record. This success convinced her to try distance running. At the 1996 Paralympics in Atlanta, she took silver in the shot put and gold in the pentathlon.\n\nHer career as a world-class runner in able-bodied events began in 1999 at the Pan American Games in Winnipeg, where she won Gold in the 1,500-meter race and was ranked second in the United States in that event in 1999 by Track and Field News. The next year, she placed eighth in the 1,500-meter in the 2000 Sydney Olympics, making Runyan the first legally blind athlete to compete in the Olympics and the highest finish by an American woman in that event.\n\nBy 2001 she won her first of three consecutive 5000 metre National Championships. She also released her autobiography \"\"No Finish Line: My Life As I See It\"\" In 2002, she added the road 5K and 10K National Championships, and married her coach, Matt Lonergan.\n\nShe finished as the top American at the 2002 New York Marathon with a time of 2 hours, 27 minutes and 10 seconds to post the second-fastest debut time ever by an American woman.\nBeing an international medalist at 1500 metres and a top major marathon runner is an accomplishment over a wide variety of distances rivaled only by Rod Dixon on the men's side. Medaling at distances as short as 100 metres and diversely explosive events like Shot Put and Long Jump is remarkable versatility.\n\nShe won the road 5K again in 2003 and qualified for the 2004 Summer Olympic Games by finishing second in the United States Olympic Trials (track and field). She took 2005 off to give birth to her first child, Anna Lee on September 1, but returned to the roads in 2006 winning her second National Championship at 20 km (her first was in 2003). She was the USATF \"Runner of the Year\" in 2002 and 2006.\n\nArguably Runyan's greatest success came at the Paralympic Games, where she has been a five times gold medallist.\n\n, Runyan holds IPC World Records in the T13 classification for the 400 m, 800 m, 1500 m, 5000 m, High Jump, Long Jump and Pentathlon. However, her personal bests at 3000m, 10,000m, and the marathon were also World Records, but were never ratified by the IPC. See marlarunyan.net, the Official Website of Marla Runyan. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1884940", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884940", "title": "Stadion-Warthausen", "text": "Stadion-Warthausen\n\nStadion-Warthausen was a county located in around Warthausen in western Baden-Württemberg, Germany. Stadion-Warthausen was a partition of Stadion County, and was mediatised to Austria and Württemberg in 1806.\n\n"}
{"id": "1884943", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884943", "title": "Peter Qasim", "text": "Peter Qasim\n\nPeter Qasim () was the longest-serving detainee in Australian immigration detention, having been detained there for over seven years. He had not been deported because he was stateless. He was detained at Baxter Immigration Reception and Processing Centre before being transferred to an Adelaide psychiatric facility.\n\nHe had applied to over 80 countries for asylum, but had not been accepted. This includes India, which claims sovereignty over Kashmir, from where Qasim originates.\n\nIn personal accounts Qasim described escaping from his home village of Gopalla in India, into Pakistan, then through Singapore and Papua New Guinea onto Australia. Qasim's provenance, however, proved difficult to verify due to a lack of supporting documentation or witnesses. This lack of evidence, and numerous unsuccessful attempts to validate Qasim's story were primarily responsible for his prolonged period of detention.\n\nHis case has been publicised by the well-known Australian entrepreneur Dick Smith. Australian authorities have maintained that he has not proven his nationality. He was invited to apply for a new visa on 20 June 2005. In 2005, Qasim was 31 years old, and was held at Baxter Detention Centre until, on 9 June 2005, he was moved to a psychiatric hospital. He received treatment for depression.\n\nOn 16 July 2005 Qasim was granted a bridging visa by the Australian government. The visa granted permission to work and to receive welfare benefits. He spent a total of six years and 10 months in detention.\n\nHe is still holding a bridging (return pending visa) visa as of September 2013.\n\n"}
{"id": "1884946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884946", "title": "Witold Czartoryski", "text": "Witold Czartoryski\n\nPrince Witold Adam Czartoryski (June 6, 1824 – November 14, 1865) was a Polish noble (szlachcic).\n\nDuke von Klewán and Zuków.\n\nWitold married Maria Grocholska on October 30, 1851 in Paris.\n"}
{"id": "1884952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884952", "title": "Carl Troll", "text": "Carl Troll\n\nCarl Troll (24 December 1899 in Gabersee – 21 July 1975 in Bonn), was a German geographer, brother of botanist Wilhelm Troll. From 1919 until 1922 Troll studied biology, chemistry, geology, geography and physics at the Universität in München. In 1921 he obtained his doctorate in botany and in 1925 his habilitation in geography. Between 1922 and 1927 he worked as an assistant at the Geography Institute in Munich. Troll was engaged in research in the ecology and geography of mountainous lands: between 1926 and 1929 went on a research journey throughout South American Andean countries where he visited northern Chile, Bolivia, Peru, Ecuador, Colombia, and Panama. In 1933 and 1934 his research interests took him to East and South Africa; in 1937 Troll was in Ethiopia; and in 1954 he visited Mexico.\n\nIn 1930 he became professor of colonial and overseas geography in Berlin, and in 1938 professor of geography in Bonn. Troll, who utilised aerial photographs in his research, coined the term Landscape ecology in 1939. He developed this terminology and many early concepts of landscape ecology and of high mountain ecology and geography as part of his early work applying aerial photographs interpretation to studies of interactions between environment and vegetation and from his research travels in the mountainous regions of Asia, Africa and South America, as well as his native Europe. He developed seasonal climatic charts and three-dimensional climatic classification from hydrological, biological and economical data.\n\nCarl Troll was president of the International Geographical Union from 1960 to 1964\n\nCompared to other scientist of the first half of the 20th century Troll's Andean work stands out by being free of developmentalist thought and there is \"no evidence of triumphalism of Western science in his Andean work\". Vertical zonation is the most acclaimed part of Trolls work in the Andes building upon the work of Alexander von Humboldt.\n\nCarl Troll argued that the development of the Inca state in the central Andes was aided by conditions that allows for the elaboration of the staple food chuño. Chuño which can be stored for long times is made of potato dried at freezing temperatures that are common at nighttime in the southern Peruvian highlands. Contradicting the link between the Inca state and chuño is that other crops such as maize can also be with dried only sun. Troll did also argue that llamas, the Inca's pack animal, can be found in its largest numbers in this very same region. It is worth considering the maximum extent of the Inca Empire roughly coincided with the greatest distribution of alpacas and llamas in Pre-Hispanic America. The link between the Andean biomes of puna and páramo, pastoralism and the Inca state is a matter of research. As a third point Troll pointed out irrigation technology as advantageous to the Inca state-building. While Troll theorized environmental influences on the Inca Empire he opposed environmental determinism arguing that culture lied at the core of the Inca civilization.\n\n"}
{"id": "1884953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884953", "title": "Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Portland in Oregon", "text": "Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Portland in Oregon\n\nThe Archdiocese of Portland in Oregon (\"Archidioecesis Portlandensis in Oregonia\") is an archdiocese of the Roman Catholic Church in the Pacific Northwest region of the United States. It encompasses the western part of the state of Oregon, from the summit of the Cascades to the Pacific Ocean. The Archbishop of Portland serves as the Ordinary of the archdiocese and Metropolitan of the Ecclesiastical Province of Portland whose suffragan dioceses cover the entire three states of Oregon, Idaho, and Montana. The dioceses of the province include Baker (eastern Oregon), Boise (Idaho), Helena (western Montana), and Great Falls-Billings (eastern Montana).\n\nAs published in the 2013 \"Oregon Catholic Directory,\" this archdiocese serves 412,725 Catholics (out of more than 3.3 million people). There are 150 diocesan priests, 144 religious priests, 79 permanent deacons, 388 women religious, and 78 religious brothers. The archdiocese has 124 parishes, 22 missions, 1 seminary, 40 elementary schools, 10 secondary schools, and 2 Catholic colleges.\n\nThere were thirteen Canadians in John Jacob Astor's expedition of 1810. Most were Catholic, and many, like Étienne Lucier, settled in the Willamette Valley. By 1829, Lucier had established a permanent land claim next to the Willamette Fur Post near Champoeg on the French Prairie. In March 22, 1836, he and 15 other French Canadian settlers on the petitioned sent to Norbert Provencher, the titular Bishop of Juliopolis, to request a priest for the settlement. Missionary priests, Rev. François Norbert Blanchet and Rev. Modeste Demers arrived at Fort Vancouver on November 24, 1838.\n\nOn December 1, 1843, the Vatican established the Vicariate Apostolic of the Oregon Territory with Rev. Msgr. Blanchet as its first Vicar Apostolic. A Vicar Apostolic is a bishop in a territory which has not yet been organized as a diocese. The following year, Rev. Pierre-Jean DeSmet, S.J., and fellow priests and Sisters of Notre Dame de Namur arrived in Astoria from Belgium.\n\nOn 24 July 1846, the vicariate was transformed into a province comprising the Archdiocese of Oregon City and the Dioceses of Walla Walla and Vancouver's Island. That year St. Paul Church was erected.\n\nRapid growth in the Pacific Northwest led to the loss of territory of the Archdiocese of Oregon City from which the Vatican created the Vicariate Apostolic of Idaho and Montana on March 3, 1868. In 1870, \"Catholic Sentinel\" was founded as the official newspaper of the archdiocese.\n\nSt. Boniface Church was erected in Sublimity, Oregon in 1889.\n\nFurther territory was lost when the Diocese of Baker City was created on June 19, 1903. St. Mary's Church in Mount Angel was erected in 1912.\n\nFollowing the death of Archbishop Alexander Christie, Edward Daniel Howard was appointed the fifth Archbishop of Oregon City on April 30, 1926. His installation took place at St. Mary's Cathedral in Portland on August 26 of that year. On September 26, 1928, the name of the archdiocese was changed from \"Oregon City\" to \"Portland in Oregon\", \"in Oregon\" being added because there was another diocese called Portland (in Maine). During his tenure as archbishop, Howard created a chancery in the cathedral rectory, later transferring it to a separate building. He reorganized the St. Vincent de Paul and Holy Name Societies, fostered the growth of Catholic Charities, and removed the \"Catholic Sentinel\" from private ownership.\n\nIn 1931, Howard led a successful campaign to repeal local zoning ordinances that prohibited the building of churches and parochial schools. He convened the Fourth Provincial Council of the archdiocese in 1932, and held a synod for the clergy in 1935. In 1939, he founded Central Catholic High School in Portland and was named an Assistant at the Pontifical Throne by Pope Pius XII in 1939. He convened the Fifth Provincial Council of the Archdiocese in 1957, and attended all four sessions of the Second Vatican Council between 1962 and 1965.\n\nThe Archdiocese's sexual abuse scandal prompted the archbishop to file for Chapter 11 reorganization on July 6, 2004. Portland became the first Catholic diocese to file for bankruptcy. Archbishop Vlazny described his actions by saying, \"This is not an effort to avoid responsibility. It is, in fact, the only way I can assure that other claimants can be offered fair compensation.\" In February 2009, the Oregon Jesuit Province also filed for bankruptcy as well.\n\nIn April 2007, the archdiocese announced a settlement had been reached and the bankruptcy court had approved a financial plan of reorganization.$71.45 million was paid to 169 victims, averaging $342,000 each; this is the 8th largest Roman Catholic clergy sexual abuse settlements in the history of the U.S. Diocesan bankruptcy filings list 11 priests as perpetrators.\n\nIn March 2011, the Oregon Jesuit Province agreed to pay $166.1 million in damages to nearly 500 sex abuse victims.\n\nOn January 29, 2013, Bishop Alexander Sample was appointed by Pope Benedict XVI to be the new Archbishop of Portland, succeeding John George Vlazny, whose resignation was accepted at the same time.\n\nOn August 6, 2016, World Spark, a retirement home provider run by Portland priest Michael Maslowsky, was forced to surrender documents showing that there had been numerous complaints of sex abuse against vulnerable residents at World Spark's St. Anthony Village elderly home, including some with dementia, between 2009 and 2016. By order, the documents were given to a plaintiff from a lawsuit which began in 2014. On October 1, 2018, it was revealed that Pope Francis had defrocked Maslowsky on June 4, 2018.\n\nIn 2018, Portland Archbishop Alexander King Sample acknowledged the history of sex abuse in the Archdiocese of Portland, which he described as an \"institutional and spiritual\" failure, and issued an apology. At the same time, it was reported that more than 100 sex abuse lawsuits were settled prior to the 2004 bankruptcy. More settlements were later issued in August 2019 when the Archdiocese of Portland agreed to pay nearly $4 million to eight men who claimed they were sexually abused by Rev. Pius Brazaukus in the 1970s and the 1980s.\n\nFrom 1843 to 1846, the Oregon Country was an apostolic vicariate, led by Francis Norbert Blanchet. Once established as a diocese and later an archdiocese, it was led by the following ordinaries:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1884959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884959", "title": "Gitane", "text": "Gitane\n\nGitane is a French manufacturer of bicycles based in Machecoul, France; the name \"Gitane\" means gypsy woman. The brand was synonymous with French bicycle racing from the 1960s through the mid-1980s, sponsoring riders such as Jacques Anquetil (1963–1965), Lucien Van Impe (1974–1976), Bernard Hinault (1975–1983), Laurent Fignon (1982–1988), and Greg LeMond (1981–1984). It is owned by Grimaldi Industri AB.\n\nCycles Gitane have their roots in 1925, when Marcel Brunelière opened a smith and agricultural repair works at Machecoul in the Loire-Atlantique region of France. He began making parts for bicycles and the following year opened a further workshop to assemble bicycles for G.M.B and Marbru.\n\nBrunelière began making his own bicycles in 1930, choosing the name Gitane (meaning \"gypsy\" [feminine]). He added light motorcycles in the 1950s. The name changed to Micmo in 1960 but continued to sell Gitane bicycles. Nearly a third of Micmo was owned by Renault, the car-maker, which had acquired 30 per cent of the shares in 1974. In 1976 it bought the rest.\n\nGitane bicycles were first imported into the U.S. in 1958 by Mel Pinto Imports of Virginia, and as such were among the first European racing bicycles to be regularly imported into that country.\n\nThe arrival of a new director-general at the head of Renault in 1985, Georges Besse, led the company to sell Micmo to raise capital. Micmo continued and then in 1992 joined Peugeot and the Spanish company, BH, to form the Cycleurope group to compete with growing competition from Asia. Later, BH sold Gitane/Peugeot and the rest of Cycleurope to the Swedish Monark conglomerate.\n\nGitane sponsored its first professionals in 1948. From 1953 to 1955 it equipped Jean Stablinski. In 1960 it helped back and Rudi Altig. In 1963 and 1964, Gitane bicycles won the Tour de France, ridden by Jacques Anquetil.\n\nRenault sponsored a professional team in the 1970s and, since it owned Micmo, the company behind Gitane, made Gitane the co-sponsor. Riders on Gitanes included Lucien Van Impe, Bernard Hinault, Laurent Fignon and Greg LeMond, all winners of the Tour de France.\n\nGitane then sponsored the team led by Laurent Fignon, led by Charly Mottet, and led by Jean-François Bernard.\n\nGitane sponsored mountain-bike teams in the 1990s.\n\nGitane returned to road cycling after several years' absence, backing and . For 2010, Gitane sponsored the team with its new line of Definitive Gitane \"The One\" ISP bicycles. Gitane bicycles are available in Europe only. The aluminum and steel Gitanes are still built in the factories in Machecoul (the original Gitane factory) and the Cycleurope facility at Romilly Sur Seine (the old Peugeot factory) in France, while all carbon bikes are built in Asia.\n\n"}
{"id": "1884982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884982", "title": "WLHK", "text": "WLHK\n\nWLHK (97.1 MHz), 97-1 Hank FM, is a country music FM radio station owned by Emmis Communications. While the station is licensed to Shelbyville, Indiana, its studios are located on Monument Circle in downtown Indianapolis. The transmitter, according to the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), is located in the 7000 block of East Southport Road on the southeast side of Indianapolis. \n\nWLHK is the FM outlet for the Indianapolis Colts, as of the 2007 season. (Its sister station, 1070 WFNI is the flagship station for the football team.) WLHK also carries Indiana University men's basketball, in the event of programming conflict on WFNI.\n\nWLHK is licensed by the FCC to broadcast in the HD Radio format.\n\nThe station first signed on as WSVL-FM on November 6, 1964 as the FM partner to WSVL 1520 (now WSVX). WSVL-FM was programmed to serve Shelbyville and the surrounding communities.\n\nIn 1980, Indianapolis lawyer and broadcaster Jeff Smulyan and two partners formed Emmis Communications. The name Emmis is taken from the Hebrew language, meaning \"truth.\" They purchased WSVL-FM with the goal was to move the radio station into the larger nearby Indianapolis radio market. WSVL-FM relaunched as adult contemporary music formatted WENS on June 4, 1981. WENS was known as the \"Flagship Station of Emmis Communications\" according to its hourly legal station identification. The radio station's new programming was an immediate success in the Indianapolis market.\n\nWith help from Chief Engineer Bob Hawkins, the late Tim McKee was the first voice heard on the new FM 97 WENS. The original air staff included McKee and Program Director Rick Cummings in middays, Gary Semro in morning drive, Scott Wheeler in afternoon drive, with Chuck Larson and Kristi Lee in nights and overnights. Veteran broadcast journalist Glenn Webber anchored morning news on WENS. Afternoon news anchor was Carol Harm. Harm was soon replaced by Linda Shane. Bernie Eagan joined the radio station in August 1981. Other early weekend talent included Jerry Walker, Kevin Dugan, Wendi Ney and Jennifer Carr. Chuck Larson left the station for WNAP in October 1981 and was replaced by Gene Olson. Cummings moved to mornings after Semro joined the Satellite Music Network in Chicago for morning drive on SMN's new Country Coast to Coast format in the fall of 1981.\n\nWhile the early WENS promoted itself as the radio station for \"no gimmicks, games, or contests,\" a Labor Day tradition in Indianapolis was started in 1983, when WENS presented its first \"Skyconcert.\" The fireworks show, created by then Promotions Director Martha Sakai, was a synchronized fireworks to music show presented on the banks of the White River at Tenth Street in downtown Indianapolis. The \"Skyconcert\" was also broadcast by tape delay on Indianapolis television. \"Skyconcert\" was a sales success for the WENS sales department, first headed by Jim Culbertson, and later by sales leadership from Gary Rozynek, Jon Horton, Mark Renier, and Tom O'Brien.\n\nOnce Program Director Rick Cummings became more involved with the growth of Emmis Broadcasting, Ron Jordan was hired for morning drive. Jordan only lasted three months in the shift. He was replaced by the all too brief pairing of Bruce Munson and Tim McKee. Tragically, McKee died of a heart attack just three days before the second annual WENS \"Skyconcert\" in late August 1984. McKee's midday shift was filled by the return of Chuck Larson, who had returned for weekends, after working part-time with daytimer beautiful music-formatted WATI. Ironically, it was Larson who first took the call informing station management of McKee's death. Later, McKee's grieving fiancée confirmed that it was Larson's compassionate response to her call that allowed her to keep her emotions in check during that first difficult hour after Tim's passing. McKee had also served as production director for WENS, and was replaced in that capacity by Tom Woody.\n\nScott Wheeler became program director following Cummings move to Emmis corporate programmer. Under Wheeler's leadership, WENS became one of the radio station's that redefined the new AC sound. Still, Wheeler faced a difficult battle with up and coming Top 40 WZPL. Ratings at WENS dropped, and Wheeler was replaced as program director by Joel Grey. Wheeler remained and split the midday shift with Grey. Grey's first move as PD was to shift Chuck Larson, by then starring in weekends for Randy Michaels at WLW Cincinnati, to late nights. Larson left the station again, in a move to Evansville, Indiana as chief engineer of radio station WGBF (AM). Under Grey, WENS adopted the name of \"Lite Rock 97\" and quickly regained its earlier ratings dominance.\n\nChuck Larson was replaced in the late night slot by Dave Taylor. With Taylor came the birth of \"Night Lite Love Songs,\" a nighttime request and dedication show. Taylor left to return to Boston late in 1986, and was replaced on the \"Night Lite\" show by Eric Garnes. Garnes had joined for weekends in early 1982, and had been hosting overnights on WENS since the 1985 departure of Gene Olson. Garnes was replaced in overnights by Darla Coop. Production director Tom Woody had been replaced by Eric Edwards in late 1985. With Edwards' 1986 move to sister station Power 106 Los Angeles, Coop with help from Neal Kelly had taken a greater production role at the station. With the move to overnights, Coop was replaced in production by Tammy Warner.\n\nAfter the death of Tim McKee, Munson was joined in mornings by Mark Patrick. Known as \"Them Guys in the Morning,\" the show failed to gain traction against WFBQ's Bob and Tom show, and Munson left the station for a career in law and politics in the fall of 1986. Dennis Jon Bailey crossed the street from legendary Indy AM radio station WIRE, to join Patrick in morning drive. This show also failed to draw an audience, and Patrick left the show in Spring 1987. Frustrated with having to host a music intensive morning show, Bailey left for WKLR-FM in August 1987. Tammy Warner also moved to WKLR that fall. Scott Wheeler left WENS to join friend Gary Hoffmann at WZPL in July 1987.\n\nJerry Curtis had joined WENS for middays weeks prior to Bailey's departure. Curtis quickly moved into the morning show, and was later joined by John Cinnamon. Alan Cook joined WENS in September 1987. Cook first worked early evenings, then middays, and contributed greatly to the growth of station's award-winning production effort. By 1988, Coop had joined Garnes on \"Night Lite Love Songs,\" and was replaced in overnights by former station intern and \"Night Lite\" producer Stephanie Smith. Once Coop finally left the station, Smith moved to co-hosting duties on \"Night Lite,\" and was replaced in overnights by Don Carson.\n\nAs the 1980s ended, WENS on-air staffers included \"John and Jerry in the Morning,\" Operations Director Joel Grey and Music Director Alan Cook in middays, APD Bernie Eagan in afternoons, Eric Garnes and Stephanie Smith on \"Night Lite\" and Don Carson in overnights. Audrey Rochelle was WENS news director. Ken Hayes anchored drive time traffic from \"Beck Toyota Mobile 97.\" Weekend talent included Mike Adams, Tim Bonnell, Neal Kelly, Gary Hunter, Mike Seneda and Scott Robinson. Other 1980s weekend talent at WENS included Kevin Calabro, Mike Ivers, Ellen K, now morning drive at KOST-FM Los Angeles and Darryl Parks, formerly of WLW Cincinnati. David Christian joined WENS in 1989 as Production Director and also carried a weekend air shift.\n\nUnlike the 1980s, the 1990s were a relatively quiet time regarding air staff change at WENS. The summer of 1990 brought the end of the \"John and Jerry\" morning show. Scott Fischer joined news director Audrey Rochelle on the WENS morning show in the fall of 1990. In the spring of 1991 Program Director Joel Grey left WENS. That summer Alan Cook and Stephanie Smith also left the radio station. John Cinnamon, formerly of the \"John and Jerry\" morning show, was rehired for middays. Eric Garnes continued as solo host on \"Night Lite Love Songs.\"\n\nJoel Grey's replacement was Chuck Knight, from the Des Moines, Iowa radio market. Knight inherited a veteran and highly successful air staff. Don Carson expanded his overnight duties with the role of morning show producer. Previous WENS morning show producers had included Howard Schrott, Kevin Burris and Kay Feeney. Former weekender Tim Bonnell took the 10p to 2a shift. This included the last two hours of \"Nite Lite Love Songs\". Bonnell had returned in November 1988, as a part-timer, from a one-year stint in Raleigh, North Carolina at 100.7 WTRG, as morning show producer for former WENS morning co-host Mark Patrick. The one major change made by Knight was the fall 1992 replacement of news director Audrey Rochelle with Ann Craig. The remainder of Knight's three-year tenure at WENS was marked without further change in the weekday air schedule. In early 1992, David Christian left as WENS production director. Christian's role at the station was filled by Scott Robinson. Chuck Knight left for the Philadelphia market in the summer of 1994. He was replaced at WENS by respected Los Angeles broadcast programmer Greg Dunkin.\n\nIn the fall of 1994, Dunkin renamed Lite Rock 97 as 97-1 WENS, the \"Best Mix of the 70's, 80's, and the 90's.\" Dunkin also eliminated Eric Garnes' long time \"Night Lite Love Songs\" program, extended the night shifts to 7 pm to midnight and midnight to 5:30 am. The popular Garnes remained as WENS night personality. Bonnell was moved to overnights. The only full-time lineup change for much of the remainder of the 1990s was the brief swap of Bernie Eagan and Scott Fischer. Eagan quickly found that he disliked early morning hours, and both Eagan and Fischer soon returned to their previous places on the WENS schedule. Ken Hayes had left as traffic anchor in the mid-1990s and was replaced by Paul Poteet in mornings and Rich McDonald in afternoons. McDonald also became the cornerstone of the WENS weekend lineup during that time.\n\nBy the end of the 1990s, Scott Fischer had left the radio station. His role on the WENS morning show was filled by midday talent John Cinnamon, joining his wife Ann Craig. Cinnamon and Craig had married several years earlier. Cinnamon's midday shift was taken by weekend talent Michelle Rivers. Rivers has begun her broadcast career working in call-out research at WENS in the late 1980s.\n\nChanging times and changing tastes marked the change in century at WENS. In 2001, the \"Ann and John\" morning show was replaced by Bernie Eagan, paired with Stephanie Quinn. Quinn had worked at the station as Stephanie Smith in the late 1980s. Bernie's time in WENS morning drive would again be brief. It was announced that WENS had hired Julie Patterson and Steve King from crosstown WZPL. \"Julie and Steve\" sat out an extended non-compete and then replaced Eagan and Quinn in mornings. WENS marked the time with a \"Free Julie and Steve\" promotion.\n\nAfter Y2K, the station's positioning statement became \"the Best Mix of the 80's, 90's, and Today.\" In 1999, Bernie Eagan had begun hosting the \"Friday Night Retro Show,\" an early effort at 1980s intensive music programming. The show was a ratings success, forcing the creation of all 1980s weekends. Oddly, in 2002, WENS dropped all 1980s music from their playlist. The void in 1980s music programming allowed the creation of competing Retro 93.9 FM. At the same time, WENS dropped all mention of the heritage WENS call letters from station programming. Playing only music of the 1990s with currents and re-currents from the 2000s, and using the name \"Mix 97-1,\" WENS took a drop in both ratings and advertising revenue. By the time station management reversed the \"Mix 97-1\" decision, WENS was in a seemingly irreversible decline.\n\nIn the fall of 2003, WENS fired their entire airstaff. Long time station veterans like Bernie Eagan and Eric Garnes had joined Scott Fischer and Scott Wheeler at sister soft AC WYXB B-105.7 FM. Twenty year station General Manager Christine Woodward-Duncan was replaced by Tom Severino. Program Director Greg Dunkin left to form his own consultancy. Then current WENS air-staffers like Julie Patterson and Steve King, Michelle Rivers and Chris Ott were replaced with the hybrid personality talk / modern AC music formatted \"real 97.1 - real life. real music.\" real 97.1 featured Ernie and Angela in the morning, along with Ann Duran in middays, Monique and the Man in afternoons, and the syndicated Alan Kabel show at nights. The real 97.1 format struggled to find audience during its eighteen-month existence. Near the end of real 97-1, Emmis added sister CHR WNOU Radio Now 93.1 morning show \"Wank and O'Brien,\" moving Ernie Mills to nights.\n\nIn March 2005, WENS changed format and call letters to a country music format, in an attempt to compete with rival 95.5, WFMS. The new format, dubbed \"Hank FM\", accompanied the station's new call letters, WLHK, and its new slogan \"[We/He] Plays Anything Country.\" The \"Wank and O'Brien\" morning show and Ernie Mills in afternoons were the only elements of the old WENS to remain after the change.\n\n\nArbitron\n\n"}
{"id": "1884988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884988", "title": "John Francis Queeny", "text": "John Francis Queeny\n\nJohn Francis Queeny (August 17, 1859 – March 19, 1933) was an American businessman, known for founding Monsanto Chemical Works (later Monsanto) in St. Louis, Missouri, on September 26, 1901, with $5,000. He named the company for his wife, Olga Mendez Monsanto.\n\nBorn in Chicago, Illinois, he attended school for six years until the Great Chicago Fire forced him to seek full-time employment at age 12. Queeny got a job with Tolman and King for $2.50 per week.\n\nHe moved to St. Louis in 1897 to work for Meyer Brothers Drug Company, one of the largest wholesale pharmaceutical companies at the time. Two years later, he spent his life savings in purchasing a sulfur refinery; it burned down the next day. Two years after that, he founded Monsanto Chemical Works, and began producing saccharine, which he sold to Meyer Brothers. He started to turn a profit in 1905, but it was not until 1906 that he left Meyer Brothers to work for Monsanto full-time.\n\nIn 1928, Queeny retired from Monsanto was succeeded by his son, Edgar. The company grew to become one of the largest producers of engineered crops in the United States by the 1970s. In 2018, Monsanto was acquired by Bayer for US$66 billion.\n\nHe married Olga Mendez Monsanto with whom he had two children, including Edgar Monsanto Queeny. Queeny died in 1933 in St. Louis and was buried at the Bellefontaine Cemetery.\n"}
{"id": "1884995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884995", "title": "Museum Campus", "text": "Museum Campus\n\nMuseum Campus is a park in Chicago that sits alongside Lake Michigan in Grant Park and encompasses five of the city's most notable attractions: the Adler Planetarium, America's first planetarium; the Shedd Aquarium; the Field Museum of Natural History; Soldier Field, home of the NFL Chicago Bears football team; and the Lakeside Center of McCormick Place. Museum Campus sits adjacent to Northerly Island along the waterfront.\n\nThe Museum Campus was created to transform the vicinity of three of the city's most notable museums – the Adler Planetarium, the Shedd Aquarium, and the Field Museum of Natural History – along with Soldier Field stadium, into a scenic pedestrian-friendly area. The area is landscaped with greenery and flora as well as jogging paths and walkways. A picturesque promenade along Solidarity Drive, an isthmus, links Northerly Island to the mainland. The drive itself is lined with a number of grand bronze monuments commemorating Kościuszko, Havliček, and Nicholas Copernicus, the last of which is a replica of a famous 19th-century work in Warsaw by Danish sculptor Bertel Thorvaldsen.\n\nThe Museum Campus opened on June 4, 1998, when the northbound lanes of Lake Shore Drive were moved west of Soldier Field following the route of the expressway's southbound lanes. By removing the roadway which bisected the area, Museum Campus was created into a green space for the enjoyment of both residents and tourists. In 2014, a consortium of museums in or near the University of Chicago, formed Museum Campus South. Also in 2014, filmmaker George Lucas selected Museum Campus as the location of the Lucas Museum of Narrative Art, which would have cost an estimated $700 million, and expanded Museum Campus south along the city's waterfront. However, these plans were cancelled in June 2016 due to opposition from the Friends of the Parks advocacy group.\n\nIn August 2016, in a partnership with the City of Chicago, the Chicago Parks District and Everywhere Wireless, Museum Campus joined many Chicago Beaches and Buckingham Fountain in providing free Wi-Fi to visitors.\n\nIn celebration of the 2018 Illinois Bicentennial, the Museum Campus was selected as one of the Illinois 200 Great Places by the American Institute of Architects Illinois component (AIA Illinois).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1884996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884996", "title": "Zlatko Perica", "text": "Zlatko Perica\n\nZlatko Perica (born 16 February 1969 in Rijeka, Croatia) is a guitarist.\n\nHe has played for the German group Tangerine Dream, joining in 1992 but in 1994 recorded his only studio album (\"Turn of the Tides\") with the band, and in 1997 he would appear on his last live album (\"Valentine Wheels\") with them. He latter made quest live appearances with the group at London shows in 2003 and 2005. In 2005 he was the lead guitarist in Swiss musician DJ Bobo's \"Pirates of Dance\" tour.\n\nShortly after his birth, due to family and economic circumstances, he and his mother migrated from Croatia to Bern, Switzerland. Although he had been a fan of music since early childhood, he didn't start playing the guitar until the age of 14. Later he attended the Guitar Institute of Technology in Los Angeles, California.\n"}
{"id": "1884999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884999", "title": "Ross (optics)", "text": "Ross (optics)\n\nRoss is the name of a succession of London-based lens designers and their company.\n\nAndrew Ross (1798–1859) founded his company in 1830; from 1840 he began producing camera lenses signed \"A. Ross\". During his lifetime, the company was one of the foremost lens manufacturers. The year after his death in 1859, his son-in-law John Henry Dallmeyer left the firm to establish his own optical company and the company was run by Ross's son, Thomas, and became known as Ross & Co. By the 1890s it was also making Zeiss and Goerz lenses under licence for sale in the UK and the British Empire. Ross patented a wide-angle lens design and Zeiss took this further to produce their EWA Protars. Before World War 1, Ross and Zeiss worked quite closely together, but at the outbreak of War the British Government put Ross in control of the newly opened Carl Zeiss binocular and optical factory in Mill Hill, London.\n\nA 1902 Ross advertisement includes: \n\n\nRoss also made some cameras from about 1855 to the late 1930s. A range of Ross Standard Reflex cameras is listed with an illustration in the 1935 British Journal Photographic Almanac, the sizes ranged from 3½ × 2½ inch up to half plate.\n\nIn the mid-20th century, Ross continued to produce lenses, as well as binoculars, epidiascopes, etc. They had begun supplying lenses for Ensign cameras in the 1930s. After World War II Ross merged with Barnet Ensign, and the company later became Ross Ensign, lenses were also made for other companies such as MPP.\n\nRoss was taken over by Avimo in 1975; Avimo was later taken over by Thales Optics.\n\n"}
{"id": "1885001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885001", "title": "Male privilege", "text": "Male privilege\n\nMale privilege is the system of advantages or rights that are available to men solely on the basis of their sex. A man's access to these benefits may vary depending on how closely they match their society's ideal masculine norm.\n\nFeminist scholarship in the area of women's studies during the 1970s produced the earliest academic studies of privilege. These studies began by examining barriers to equity between the sexes. In later decades, researchers began to focus on the intersectionality and overlapping nature of privileges relating to sex, race, social class, sexual orientation, and other forms of social classification.\n\nSpecial privileges and status are granted to males in patriarchal societies. These are societies defined by male supremacy, in which males hold primary power and predominate in roles of political leadership, moral authority, social privilege and control of property. With systemic subordination of women, males gain economic, political, social, educational, and practical advantages that are more or less unavailable to women. The long-standing and unquestioned nature of such patriarchal systems, reinforced over generations, tends to make privilege invisible to holders; it can lead males who benefit from such privilege to ascribe their special status to their owned individual merits and achievements, rather than to unearned advantages.\n\nIn the field of sociology, male privilege is seen as embedded in the structure of social institutions, as when men are often assigned authority over women in the workforce, and benefit from women's traditional caretaking role. Privileges can be classified as either \"positive\" or \"negative\", depending on how they affect the rest of society. Women's studies scholar Peggy McIntosh writes: \n\nPositive advantages include having such things as adequate nutrition, shelter, and health care, whereas negative advantages accompanying male privilege include such things as the expectation that a man will have a better chance than a comparably qualified woman of being hired for a job, as well as being paid more than a woman for the same job.\n\nThe term \"male privilege\" does not apply to a solitary occurrence of the use of power, but rather describes one of many systemic power structures that are interdependent and interlinked throughout societies and cultures.\n\nPrivilege is not shared equally by all males. Those who most closely match an ideal masculine norm benefit the most from privilege. In Western patriarchal societies this ideal has been described as being \"white, heterosexual, stoic, wealthy, strong, tough, competitive, and autonomous\". Men's studies scholars refer to this ideal masculine norm as \"hegemonic masculinity\". While essentially all males benefit from privilege to some degree, those who visibly differ from the norm may not benefit fully in certain situations, especially in the company of other men that more closely match it.\n\nMen who have experienced bullying and domestic violence in youth, in particular, may not accept that they are beneficiaries of privilege. Such forms of coercive violence are linked to the idea of \"toxic masculinity\", a specific model of manhood that creates hierarchies of dominance in which some are favored and others are harmed.\n\nThe invisibility of male privilege can be seen for instance in discussions of the gender pay gap in the United States; the gap is usually referred to by stating women's earnings as a percentage of men's. However, using women's pay as the baseline highlights the dividend that males receive as greater earnings (32% in 2005). In commerce, male dominance in the ownership and control of financial capital and other forms of wealth has produced disproportionate male influence over the working classes and the hiring and firing of employees. In addition, a disproportionate burden is placed upon women in employment when they are expected to be solely responsible for child care; they may be more likely to be fired or be denied advancement in their profession, thus putting them at an economic disadvantage relative to men.\n\nThe earliest academic studies of privilege appeared with feminist scholars' work in the area of women's studies during the 1970s. Such scholarship began by examining barriers to equity between the sexes. In later decades, researchers began to focus on the intersectionality and overlapping nature of privileges relating to sex, race, social class, sexual orientation, and other forms of social classification.\n\nPeggy McIntosh, one of the first feminist scholars to examine male privilege, wrote about both male privilege and white privilege, using the metaphor of the \"invisible knapsack\" to describe a set of advantages borne, often unaware and unacknowledged, by members of privileged groups. According to McIntosh, privilege is not a result of a concerted effort to oppress those of the opposite gender; however, the inherent benefits that men gain from the systemic bias put women at an innate disadvantage. The benefits of this unspoken privilege may be described as special provisions, tools, relationships, or various other opportunities. According to McIntosh, this privilege may actually negatively affect men's development as human beings, and few question that the existing structure of advantages may be challenged or changed.\n\nEfforts to examine the role of privilege in students' lives has become a regular feature of university education in North America. By drawing attention to the presence of privilege (including male, white, and other forms) in the lives of students, educators have sought to foster insights that can help students contribute to social justice. Such efforts include McIntosh's \"invisible knapsack\" model of privilege and the \"Male Privilege Checklist\".\n\nSome linguistic conventions have privileged men and the male perspective and suggested that maleness is the societal norm. In English, nouns such as \"man\" or \"mankind\" and forms of address like \"you guys\" are routinely used for women while it is not accepted to refer to men as women. Associating a man with something feminine and calling him girl or sissy is usually considered an insult. Expressions like \"freshmen\" or occupational titles such as \"chairman\" are supposed to apply to both sexes and many prestigious occupations are implicitly associated with men so that people use modifiers such as \"woman doctor\" or \"lady doctor\" to signal deviations from the norm that doctors are usually men. In Western culture, male images and exclusively male language for deities such as referring to God as \"he\" or \"father\" have been argued to have reinforced male privilege. Men's greater resemblance to God has been used to justify men's religious and cultural position.\n\nHistorically, the third-person singular pronoun \"he\" is used as a sex-indefinite, generic form for all people (e.g. \"anyone can do it if he tries\") whereas the use of \"she\" to refer to people in general is not allowed. Masculine generics were first introduced by prescriptive grammarians in the 19th century who argued that \"he\" was the only correct sex-indefinite referent. Prior to that, singular \"they\" and \"he or she\" had been widely used in written and spoken English. In 1850 a special Act of Parliament was passed in the United Kingdom that legally proscribed singular \"they\" and \"he or she\" in favor of \"he\", especially to shorten the language used in Acts of Parliament.\n\nMany men have responded to discussions of male privilege by saying that they do not feel that they have been given any unearned advantages, such as in their struggles to find success in employment, education, or relationships. Advocates for men's rights and father's rights as well as anti-feminist men often accept that men's traditional roles are damaging to men but deny that men as a group have institutional power and privilege, and argue that men are now victims relative to women.\n\nSome have taken active roles in challenging oppressive sexism, arguing that male privilege is deeply linked to the oppression of women. They describe men's oppressive behaviors as cultural traits learned within patriarchal social systems, rather than inborn biological traits. Advocates within the broader men's movement oriented towards profeminism or anti-sexism argue that traditional gender roles harm both men and women. \"Liberal\" profeminism tends to stress the ways men suffer from these traditional roles, while more \"radical\" profeminism tends to emphasize male privilege and sexual inequality. Some men may also be advocates of women's rights but deny that their privilege as a whole is a part of the issue at hand.\n\nIn both India and China, male offspring are often privileged and favored over female children. Some manifestations of son preference and the devaluation of women are eliminating unwanted daughters through neglect, maltreatment, abandonment, as well as female infanticide and feticide despite laws that prohibit infanticide and sex-selective pregnancy termination. In India some of these practices have contributed to skewed sex ratios in favor of male children at birth and in the first five years. Other examples of privileging male offspring are special \"praying for a son\" ceremonies during pregnancy, more ceremony and festivities following the birth of a boy, listing and introducing sons before daughters, and common felicitations that associate good fortune and well-being with the number of sons.\n\nReasons given for preferring sons to daughters include sons' role in religious family rites, which daughters are not permitted to perform, and the belief that sons are permanent members of the birth family whereas daughters belong to their husband's family after marriage in accordance with patrilocal tradition. Other reasons include patrilineal customs whereby only sons can carry on the family name, the obligation to pay dowry to a daughter's husband or his family, and the expectation that sons will support their birth parents financially while it is regarded as undesirable or shameful to receive financial support from daughters.\n\n"}
{"id": "1885008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885008", "title": "Izabella Elżbieta Czartoryska", "text": "Izabella Elżbieta Czartoryska\n\nPrincess Izabella Elżbieta Czartoryska (19 December 1832 – 18 March 1899) was a Polish noblewoman.\n\nOn 21 February 1857, Izabella was married to Count Jan Kanty Działyński (1829–1880), son of Tytus Działyński in Paris, France. Their marriage produced no children.\n"}
{"id": "1885012", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885012", "title": "Hit or Miss (solitaire)", "text": "Hit or Miss (solitaire)\n\nHit or Miss is a solitaire card game which uses a deck of 52 playing cards. It is an unusual solitaire card games in that because the player deals the cards one at a time. \nAs the player deals the cards, s/he says \"ace\" when drawing the first card, \"two\" for the second, then \"three, four... nine, ten, jack, queen, king\" then starts again with \"ace.\" The player continues \"counting\" after the cards in the deck are used up, recollected and redealt.\n\nOnce the word uttered matches the rank of the card dealt, the card is \"hit\" and it is discarded. Cards that are \"hit\" no longer take further part in the game.\n\nThe player can continue the game and redeal the cards (and say \"ace, two, three...\" at the same time) as long as there are cards \"hit.\" When all the remaining cards are dealt twice in succession without a \"hit,\" the game is lost. Therefore, all cards must be discarded in order for the game to be won.\n"}
{"id": "1885018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885018", "title": "Yio Chu Kang", "text": "Yio Chu Kang\n\nYio Chu Kang is a sub-urban area in the northeast of Singapore, with proximity to the Ang Mo Kio, Lentor, Seletar and Sengkang areas. Deriving its name from the Yio Chu Kang Village, it is still known for lush greenery and low-density housing with high-rise public housing in its southern fringes.\n\nThe name Yio Chu Kang, similar to Choa Chu Kang and Lim Chu Kang did not come from names of famous people unlike many other road names in Singapore. The word 'Kang' - means river, while 'Chu' was apparently a clan. The word 'Chu' itself means \"owner\" or \"land\". The clan was hence named Kangchu because it was controlled by the Chu clan and they were situated around a river. The north of Singapore was split and given to different leaders of the Kangchu clan, and they took the name of the leader. Hence the names Yio Chu Kang, Lim Chu Kang and Choa Chu Kang.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nSituated at the northern portion of Ang Mo Kio, Yio Chu Kang is served by bus services originating from Yio Chu Kang Bus Interchange, Ang Mo Kio Bus Depot, Ang Mo Kio Bus Interchange and Yishun (85x services). Yio Chu Kang MRT station also serves the area, providing residents a direct link to the relatively distant Central Area.\n\nYio Chu Kang became a Single Member Constituency in 2006 although it was part of the Ang Mo Kio Group Representative Constituency since 1991, during the 2010 elections the SMC was dissolved and absorbed again back into Ang Mo Kio GRC. Its MP is Dr Koh Poh Koon. 13 March 2020, Yio Chu Kang is an independent SMC again, no longer part of Ang Mo Kio GRC. \n"}
{"id": "1885024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885024", "title": "Waldburg-Zeil", "text": "Waldburg-Zeil\n\nWaldburg-Zeil was a County ruled by the House of Waldburg, located in southeastern Baden-Württemberg, Germany, located around , near Leutkirch im Allgäu.\n\nWaldburg-Zeil was a partition of Waldburg-Wolfegg-Zeil. Originally ruled by Truchesses (stewards), Waldburg-Zeil was elevated to a County in 1628, and a Principality in 1803 shortly before being mediatised to Württemberg in 1806.\n\nIn 1674, Waldburg-Zeil was partitioned between itself and Waldburg-Wurzach. Count Francis Anthony inherited Waldburg-Trauchburg in 1772 (the districts of Friedburg and Scheer were later sold to Thurn und Taxis in 1785), and Steward Froben and Steward Henry of Waldburg-Wolfegg partitioned Waldburg-Waldburg after the death of Steward Gebhard.\n\n\n\n\nThe present prince is Erich, Fürst von Waldburg zu Zeil und Trauchburg (born 1962), the only son of Georg, Prince von Waldburg zu Zeil und Trauchburg (1928-2015) and Princess Marie Gabrielle of Bavaria (b. 1931), daughter of Albrecht, Duke of Bavaria. In 1988 he married Mathilde, Duchess of Württemberg, daughter of Carl, Duke of Württemberg and Princess Diane of Orléans. As Erich has five daughters, his heir presumptive is his first cousin, Count Clemens von Waldburg-Zeil (b. 1960), married to Princess Georgina of Liechtenstein, who has two sons.\n\n\nIn 1779 a side branch of the Counts of Waldburg-Zeil inherited the sovereign county of Lustenau by marriage. The county was mediatized to Bavaria in 1806 and became part of Austria in 1830. The present Count is Franz Josef von Waldburg-Zeil-Hohenems.\n"}
{"id": "1885028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885028", "title": "Štrpce", "text": "Štrpce\n\nŠtrpce (Serbian Cyrillic: Штрпце) or Shtërpca (), is a town and municipality located in the Ferizaj District in Kosovo. As of 2015, it has an estimated population of 13,630 inhabitants.\n\nAfter the 2013 Brussels Agreement, the municipality has been included to be part of a yet to be formed Community of Serb Municipalities. \n\nIn Medieval Serbia, the \"župa\" (county, district) of Sirinić (Sirinićka župa), first mentioned in a 13th-century charter, covered the whole of modern Štrpce municipality, having the towns of Gradište (site in Brezovica) and Zidinac (site in Gotovuša). Several remains of Byzantine forts exist in the region. At the top of the Čajlije hill, above the mouth of the Piljevac creek of the Lepenac river, there exists the remains of the Gradište fort, which has two layers, the first from the 6th century, and the second from the 13th century. The fort is in ruins, of which a donjon tower, and outlines of other buildings, can be identified. The entrance to the city, at the north, was protected by a tower. From that tower, a rampart continued, with another tower, from where a defensive wall stretched to the foot of the hill, towards the Lepenac.\n\nOn June 28, 1944, during World War II, Bulgarian soldiers executed 46 locals (of whom 12 were children) on the Rakanovac site in Brezovica, after the death of one of their soldiers.\n\nAccording to the 2011 census done by the Government of Kosovo, the municipality of Štrpce had 6,949 inhabitants; 3,757 Kosovo Albanians (54%), 3,148 Serbs (45.3%), and others. However, these results should be taken with caution, due to the partial boycott by the Serbs. According to the Municipal Office for Communities and Returns (MOCR), the total population is estimated at 13,630 inhabitants. ECMI calculated in 2013 that there were 9,100 (70.58%) Serbs in Štrpce.\n\nThe ethnic composition of the municipality of Štrpce:\nStaja Marković, after whom the primary school is named, was a guerrilla fighter in the 20th century.\n\nThe municipality encompasses an area of on the northeast part of the Šar Mountains, and the upper part of the Lepenac river valley, which is well known as Sirinić Valley. Its municipal borders almost overlap with the borders of Sirinić Valley. Border lines are made of the mountain massive of the north-east part of the Šar Mountains and its branches: Ošljak, Kodža Balkan, Žar and Jezerska Mountain. The Štrpce municipality is a mainly mountainous area, comprising regions from above sea level in the Lepenac river valley up to above sea level at its highest peak, Ljuboten. Dominant mountain massifs create a natural isolation for this municipality towards north and south, meanwhile, by Brod canyon the municipality is open towards Kosovo Valley, and through Prevalac toward Prizren Valley. The bordering municipalities are Ferizaj, Kaçanik, Suva Reka and Prizren, while the municipality is bordered by North Macedonia to the south.\nŠtrpce has a relatively favorable location in comparison to other cities and administrative, economic centers of Kosovo, as well as the north and northwest part of North Macedonia. The distance from the Štrpce municipality to the Ferizaj municipality is , to the Pristina municipality , to the Prizren municipality ; the distance to cities in Macedonia is: Skopje , Tetovo . Štrpce municipality is situated at the center of the aforementioned cities, which is very important for further municipal economic development. It is also worth mentioning that within a radius of from Štrpce there are a number of industrial and mining centers like Trepča – Kosovo mining-energetic basin, then Skopje, Ferizaj, Prizren and Peć industrial basins. In the past few years a number of asphalt roads were constructed within the municipal territory, so that almost all settlements are connected with the center of the municipality. Relief features and potential for using agricultural land are prerequisites for the bloodstream of the settlements' network which are the valley's predominant type. Most of the settlements are not urbanized and mainly not functionally integrated, with the exception of Brezovica settlement where tourism assets are located and Štrpce as the center of the municipality.\n\nThe diversity and attractive natural resources represent good potential for a faster economic development of the municipality. The most valuable natural potentials of the municipality are its environment values, climate features and untouched nature. Mountains with so called Alpine mountain relief, in the upper part of the mountain where there is snow up to 280 days during the year are just some of the advantages for the development of winter tourism. The Šar Mountains offer the possibility of preparing ski slopes for all types of winter sports fans, from novices to top professional skiers. The lower parts with characteristics of the valley climate are rich with a variety of flora, lakes, caves etc., and offer possibilities for development of summer tourism as well. Besides tourism, there are opportunities and natural resources for the development of agriculture and cattle-breading. Agricultural land takes 55% of the municipal territory —. Pastures cover 38.8%, and meadows 25% of the total agricultural land. Cultivable soil covers 18%, and a small area is orchard. Forests take 42% of the territory of the municipality —. Beech is the most widely spread tree, but one can come across Turkey oak, white ash, birch and some other types of trees as well. Above there are mixed and coniferous forests: pine, fir, spruce, juniper, as well as endemic trees like \"Pinus peuce\", \"Pinus heldreichii\", \"Pinus mugo\", \"Taxus baccata\" and some others. The whole territory of the municipality is rich with rivers; about 250 springs manifest a presence of underground waters. The largest river is Lepenac which is made of two rivers – Tisova and Cerenacke river. There are also a number of mountain lakes; the three most popular are: Livadičko, Štrbačko and Big Jažinačko Lake.\n\nThe municipality of Štrpce covers a surface of 247.36 square kilometers. It is located in the north-eastern side of Šar Mountains, also known as the valley of Sirink which is the upper surface of the Lepenac river basin. The total population living in the territory of this municipality is about 13.812. Of these, 10.451 are Serbs and 3.341 are Albanian, while 20 are Roma The population density is 50 people for square kilometer. The municipality is surrounded by high mountains, where the highest peak reaches 2500 m (the peak of Ljuboten). These mountains are new, with tough ranges and ridges. It is recognized as an appropriate place for the development of tourism.\n\nThe Brezovica ski center is a popular center which lies in the north-western side of the Šar Mountains. Its distance from Prishtina Airport is 60 km. With its alpine nature and high mountainous environment, Brezovica and its surroundings remind you of most European and worldwide renowned touristic centers. Brezovica's surroundings cover different natural characteristics as the valley of Lepenac, its ridges reaching the height of 900m to 2.600 m. The lower zone of the tourism complex reaches a height of 900 to 980 m above the sea level and is wide slope covering the Lepenc. The Ormed village of this valley is called Brezovica whose primary function of tourism is in offering fine hotel accommodations such as: Narcio, Breza, Junior and other fine restaurants. The middle zone is surrounded by the Mužica mountains reaching a height of around 900–1300 m above sea level; it also presents a strong connection of skiing slopes. This zone is known as a weekend skiing line. The upper zone reaches the mountain height of 1700 m whose slopes descend from Muzhica's mountain bed. This port of ridge is known as Sfojk's house or \"skiing center\". This part of the mountain is surrounded by many hotels such as: Molika, Kameni Dom, SC Šar. The Brezovica skiing center consists of 5 ski lifts, the majority of which are out of order, which unable you to reach the skiing slope of 3.000 m. In Brezovica you can perform many skiing activities because it fulfills the capacities of 5000 skiers. The snowfall structure offers a fast and safe skiing experience. Many national and inter skiing contests have been held in Brezovica which have contributed to its continual prosperity. Different sports teams perform their yearly training in Brezovica because it offers ideal working circumstances. During the summer season, Brezovica offers a great pleasure to its visitors, who can hike, hunt, fish and visit its historic monuments. This center is available during the whole year for seminars, symposiums and conference presentations.\n\nŠar Mountain National Park was established in 1986, covering a surface of 39.000 hectares. Restricted presentations of the Šar's nature are: mixed fresh woods lying on rocky fields of Rasemca garage. The birthplace of the bolcavic owl bind. As melting and flowing on wavy shapes, the gantwalls of Monica valley, many iceberg lakes and many other shapes of glacial relief. The Šar mountain presents a real museum under the upper part of Kosovo. The Šar mountain is also a field with flora and fauna diversity. The environment of Šar has more than 112 species, starting from three species, bushes, herbs, animals etc. The Šar mountain is also famous among many European beauties because it has over 147 butterfly species and 200 bird species . Among special poultices are: bradon eagle, golden eagle, grey eagle etc. On the upper zones of Šar, you can see even wild cats, owls, wild bears, dear families, does and wild cats. The natural and cultural wolves (UNESCO) protection as a result of preserving its natural beauties.\n\nTraditionally they belong to the Štrpce municipality formed as a result of Iceberg erosions. The people of Štrpce know them as \"mountains eyes\" thanks to their beauty. Depending on the weather conditions, these lakes are covered with snow from November to May. It consists of lakes: Livadičko lake, Mountain Vir lake, small Jezersko lake etc.\nThe inhabitants of Štrpce still call it Štrebačko lake. It covers wide plains and deep circle land the peak of Livadica 2491 m reaching the height of 2.173 and its width of 220–124 m. The sea shore length is 685 m. The lake's depth is various, starting from 6.50-8.60 m depending on weather conditions. The visibility of the lakes' water is clear and its bottom can be seen. The surface is filled with water from main falls, snowfalls and snow melting and a great number of underwater springs. In this lake the brown trout also lives, but as a result of tough weather and water conditions it cannot be inseminated.\n\nThere are two Orthodox churches in Štrpce: St. Nikola (Sveti Nikola) and St. Jovan (Sveti Jovan). St. Nikola was built in 1576-77 by locals, and St. Jovan was built in 1911. One of the priests discovered a part of wall with frescoes in St. Nikola church from a much older time. Every Sunday morning and for holidays there are liturgies in St. Nikola church, and in St. Jovan church there are liturgies just on St. Jovan’s day, but the churches are open every day.\n\nThe House of Culture is in Štrpce in the center of town, next to the municipal house. The name of the House of Culture is St. Sava (Sveti Sava). Inside there is a public library and also a hall which hosts cultural events such as folk dance ensembles and art exhibitions.\n\nOne traditional holiday that is celebrated in Štrpce is Bele Poklade, also called Procka. \n\nThe town of Štrpce is the seat of the municipality government. It also has a hospital and ambulances. Every morning buses travel from Brezovica to Belgrade, with stop in Štrpce.\n\nThere are primary and high schools in Štrpce. The high school is named for Jovan Cvijic. The high school has many courses of study including medicine, economy, law, gymnasium (general studies), and tourism. Students go in two shifts (1st and 2nd year go in the afternoon, and 3rd and 4th year go in the morning). There are about 400 students in the school. The primary school is named for Staja Marković. There are about 500 students in the primary school, in 1st through 8th grades. Those who live in the other villages of Sirinic valley can come to school with school buses. \n\nThere is also a kindergarten in Štrpce that is named \"Fawn of the Shara\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1885033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885033", "title": "Rain follows the plow", "text": "Rain follows the plow\n\nRain follows the plow is the conventional name for a now-discredited theory of climatology that was popular throughout the American West and Australia during the late 19th century. The phrase was employed as a summation of the theory by Charles Dana Wilber:\nGod speed the plow. ... By this wonderful provision, which is only man's mastery over nature, the clouds are dispensing copious rains ... [the plow] is the instrument which separates civilization from savagery; and converts a desert into a farm or garden. ... To be more concise, \"Rain follows the plow\".\nThe basic premise of the theory was that human habitation and agriculture through homesteading effected a permanent change in the climate of arid and semi-arid regions, making these regions more humid. The theory was widely promoted in the 1870s as a justification for the settlement of the Great Plains, a region previously known as the \"Great American Desert\". It was also used to justify the expansion of wheat growing on marginal land in South Australia during the same period.\n\nAccording to the theory, increased human settlement in the region and cultivation of soil would result in an increased rainfall over time, rendering the land more fertile and lush as the population increased. As later historical records of rainfall indicated, the theory was based on faulty evidence arising from brief climatological fluctuations that happened to coincide with settlement, an example of the logical fallacy that correlation means causation. The theory was later refuted by climatologists and is now definitively regarded as pure superstition.\n\nThe theory arose in the late 1860s and 1870s during the westward expansion of European-American settlement west of the Missouri River and across the 100th meridian west. This was the traditional boundary line between the humid and semi-arid portions of central North America. Specifically, in the early part of the decade, white settlement had spread into central and western Nebraska along the Platte River. Emigrants on the Oregon Trail began reporting that the land in western Nebraska, previously known for its yellowed, dry vegetation during the summer, had seemingly become green.\n\nOut of this evidence, some scientists concluded that the apparent increase in rain was due to the settlement and the effects of cultivation. One of the most prominent exponents of the theory in the United States was Cyrus Thomas, who was a noted ethnologist and entomologist but only an amateur climatologist at best. After studying the recent history of Colorado, he concluded that the increase in moisture was permanent, and that it coincided exactly with the first settlers' cultivating of the land. Other prominent advocates of the theory were Ferdinand Vandeveer Hayden, the noted geographer who had explored and surveyed parts of the Rocky Mountains of Colorado; Samuel Aughey, a professor at the University of Nebraska; and Charles Dana Wilber, an amateur scientist and author.\n\nThomas and other climatologists offered a variety of explanations for the theory. A common idea was that the plowing of the soil for cultivation exposed the soil's moisture to the sky. In addition, newly planted trees and shrubs increased rainfall as well, as did smoke from trains, or even the metal in the rails or the telegraph wires. Another hypothesis stated that the increased vibrations in the atmosphere due to human activity created additional clouds, from which rain fell. This idea led to the widespread dynamiting of the air across the Great Plains in the 1870s.\n\nThe theory was widely embraced in its day, not only by scientists, but land speculators and emigrants. Some historians have argued that the theory was embraced readily as an outgrowth of Manifest Destiny, the idea that the United States had a mission to expand, spreading its form of democracy and freedom. The theory is regarded as partially responsible for the rapid settlement of the Great Plains in the later 19th century. In 'The Great Valleys and Prairies of Nebraska and the Northwest', published in 1881, Charles Dana Wilber wrote:\nIn this miracle of progress, the plow was the unerring prophet, the procuring cause, not by any magic or enchantment, not by incantations or offerings, but instead by the sweat of his face toiling with his hands, man can persuade the heavens to yield their treasures of dew and rain upon the land he has chosen for his dwelling... . ..The raindrop never fails to fall and answer to the imploring power or prayer of labor.\nWilliam Gilpin, the first territorial governor of Colorado and an aide to President Abraham Lincoln, was a proponent of this theory. Gilpin was a strong believer in the idea of Manifest Destiny. One of his books was called \"The Mission of the North American People\". He strongly promoted western settlement and invoked this theory as one of his reasons for people to migrate west.\n\nClimatologists now understand that increased vegetation and urbanization can result in increased precipitation. The effect, however, is local in scope, with increased rainfall typically coming at the expense of rainfall in nearby areas. It cannot result in a climatological change for an entire region. They also understand that the Great Plains had had a wetter than usual few seasons while this theory was developed and increasing settlement were both taking place. When normal arid conditions returned, homesteaders suffered.\n\nIn 2007, Richard Raddatz, a climatologist at the University of Winnipeg, published results of his studies on the conversion of Canadian grasslands to cropland. His theory is that, because corn crops transpire moisture into the atmosphere at a faster rate than the grass they have replaced, crops can generate storms and intensify the season during which water can cycle through the atmosphere.\n\nObserved trends of Midwest summertime cooling and increased rainfall over the last third of the 20th century have been linked to agricultural practices in the arid Great Plains, in an inversion of the Dust Bowl scenario. Increased precipitation and humidity may cause the downward trend in Midwestern average daytime highs, since humid air takes more energy to heat to a given temperature than dry air. In turn, the increase in Midwestern rainfall may be driven by the large increase in land under irrigation in the Plains over the 20th century. Irrigation water enters the atmosphere through evaporation and plant transpiration, and then falls as rain over the downwind Midwest.\n\nAt the same time that the theory existed in North America, it also existed on the farming frontier in South Australia. There was a spread of farming from the area near Adelaide northwards to areas of much lower rainfall. In South Australia, George Goyder warned as early as 1865, in his famous report on farming in the state, that rain would \"not\" follow the plow.\n\nDespite this, until further droughts in the 1880s, farmers talked of cultivating cereal crops up to the Northern Territory border (latitude 26 degrees South). Today, however, grain crops still do not grow further north than Quorn (latitude ~32 degrees South), as advised by Goyder's original report.\n"}
{"id": "1885035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885035", "title": "Sheshai", "text": "Sheshai\n\nSheshai /mercy/(flax, six) was a clan of Anakim living in Hebron named for a son of Anak in the Bible (Numbers 13:22). The clans were driven out of the city by Caleb (Joshua 15:14) and the Tribe of Judah (Judges 1:10).\n\nThe two brothers of Sheshai were Ahiman and Talmai.\n\nThe Egyptologists and archaeologists Aharon Kempinski and Donald B. Redford have proposed that Sheshi, a Canaanite king ruling over parts of Egypt for some time between 1750 BC and 1650 BC during the Second Intermediate Period, may be the historical figure that gave rise to the Biblical Sheshai.\n"}
{"id": "1885042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885042", "title": "Waldburg-Wurzach", "text": "Waldburg-Wurzach\n\nWaldburg-Wurzach was a county ruled by the House of Waldburg, located on the southeastern border of Baden-Württemberg, Germany, located around Wurzach (located about 15 kilometres west of Bad Waldsee). Waldburg-Wurzach was a partition of Waldburg-Zeil. Waldburg-Wurzach was a county prior to 1803, when it was raised to a principality shortly before being mediatised to Württemberg in 1806.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1885043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885043", "title": "Autonomous underwater vehicle", "text": "Autonomous underwater vehicle\n\nAn autonomous underwater vehicle (AUV) is a robot that travels underwater without requiring input from an operator. AUVs constitute part of a larger group of undersea systems known as unmanned underwater vehicles, a classification that includes non-autonomous remotely operated underwater vehicles (ROVs) – controlled and powered from the surface by an operator/pilot via an umbilical or using remote control. In military applications an AUV is more often referred to as an unmanned undersea vehicle (UUV). Underwater gliders are a subclass of AUVs.\n\nThe first AUV was developed at the Applied Physics Laboratory at the University of Washington as early as 1957 by Stan Murphy, Bob Francois and later on, Terry Ewart. The \"Special Purpose Underwater Research Vehicle\", or SPURV, was used to study diffusion, acoustic transmission, and submarine wakes.\n\nOther early AUVs were developed at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in the 1970s. One of these is on display in the Hart Nautical Gallery in MIT. At the same time, AUVs were also developed in the Soviet Union (although this was not commonly known until much later).\n\nUntil relatively recently, AUVs have been used for a limited number of tasks dictated by the technology available. With the development of more advanced processing capabilities and high yield power supplies, AUVs are now being used for more and more tasks with roles and missions constantly evolving.\n\nThe oil and gas industry uses AUVs to make detailed maps of the seafloor before they start building subsea infrastructure; pipelines and sub sea completions can be installed in the most cost effective manner with minimum disruption to the environment. The AUV allows survey companies to conduct precise surveys of areas where traditional bathymetric surveys would be less effective or too costly. Also, post-lay pipe surveys are now possible, which includes pipeline inspection. The use of AUVs for pipeline inspection and inspection of underwater man-made structures is becoming more common.\n\nScientists use AUVs to study lakes, the ocean, and the ocean floor. A variety of sensors can be affixed to AUVs to measure the concentration of various elements or compounds, the absorption or reflection of light, and the presence of microscopic life. Examples include conductivity-temperature-depth sensors (CTDs), fluorometers, and pH sensors. Additionally, AUVs can be configured as tow-vehicles to deliver customized sensor packages to specific locations.\n\nThe Applied Physics Lab at the University of Washington has been creating iterations of its \"Seaglider\" AUV platform since the 1950s. Though iRobot Seaglider was originally designed for oceanographic research, in recent years it has seen much interest from organizations such as the U.S. Navy or the oil and gas industry. The fact that these autonomous gliders are relatively inexpensive to manufacture and operate is indicative of most AUV platforms that will see success in myriad applications.\n\nAn example of an AUV interacting directly with its environment is the Crown-Of-Thorns Starfish Robot (COTSBot) created by the Queensland University of Technology (QUT). The COTSBot finds and eradicates crown-of-thorns starfish (\"Acanthaster planci\"), a species that damages the Great Barrier Reef. It uses a neural network to identify the starfish and injects bile salts to kill it.\n\nMany roboticists construct AUVs as a hobby. Several competitions exist which allow these homemade AUVs to compete against each other while accomplishing objectives. Like their commercial brethren, these AUVs can be fitted with cameras, lights, or sonar. As a consequence of limited resources and inexperience, hobbyist AUVs can rarely compete with commercial models on operational depth, durability, or sophistication. Finally, these hobby AUVs are usually not oceangoing, being operated most of the time in pools or lake beds. A simple AUV can be constructed from a microcontroller, PVC pressure housing, automatic door lock actuator, syringes, and a DPDT relay. Some participants in competitions create open-source designs.\n\nSubmarines that travel autonomously to a destination by means of GPS navigation have been made by illegal drug traffickers.\n\nAutonomous underwater vehicles, for example AUV ABYSS, have been used to find wreckages of missing airplanes, e.g. Air France Flight 447, and the Bluefin-21 AUV was used in the search for Malaysia Airlines Flight 370.\n\nThe U.S. Navy Unmanned Undersea Vehicle (UUV) Master Plan identified the following UUV's missions: \n\nThe Navy Master Plan divided all UUVs into four classes:\n\nHundreds of different AUVs have been designed over the past 50 or so years, but only a few companies sell vehicles in any significant numbers. There are around 10 companies that sell AUVs on the international market, including Kongsberg Maritime, Hydroid (now a wholly owned subsidiary of Kongsberg Maritime), Bluefin Robotics, Teledyne Gavia (previously known as Hafmynd), International Submarine Engineering (ISE) Ltd, Atlas Elektronik, and OceanScan.\n\nVehicles range in size from man portable lightweight AUVs to large diameter vehicles of over 10 metres length. Large vehicles have advantages in terms of endurance and sensor payload capacity; smaller vehicles benefit significantly from lower logistics (for example: support vessel footprint; launch and recovery systems).\n\nSome manufacturers have benefited from domestic government sponsorship including Bluefin and Kongsberg. The market is effectively split into three areas: scientific (including universities and research agencies), commercial offshore (oil and gas, etc.) and military application (mine countermeasures, battle space preparation). The majority of these roles utilize a similar design and operate in a cruise (torpedo-type) mode. They collect data while following a preplanned route at speeds between 1 and 4 knots.\n\nCommercially available AUVs include various designs, such as the small REMUS 100 AUV originally developed by Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution in the US and now produced commercially by Hydroid, Inc. (a wholly owned subsidiary of Kongsberg Maritime); the larger HUGIN 1000 and 3000 AUVs developed by Kongsberg Maritime and Norwegian Defence Research Establishment; the Bluefin Robotics vehicles and the International Submarine Engineering Ltd. Most AUVs follow the traditional torpedo shape as this is seen as the best compromise between size, usable volume, hydrodynamic efficiency and ease of handling. There are some vehicles that make use of a modular design, enabling components to be changed easily by the operators.\n\nThe market is evolving and designs are now following commercial requirements rather than being purely developmental. Upcoming designs include hover-capable AUVs for inspection and light-intervention (primarily for the offshore energy applications), and hybrid AUV/ROV designs that switch between roles as part of their mission profile. Again, the market will be driven by financial requirements and the aim to save money and expensive ship time.\n\nToday, while most AUVs are capable of unsupervised missions, most operators remain within range of acoustic telemetry systems in order to maintain a close watch on their investment. This is not always possible. For example, Canada has recently taken delivery of two AUVs (ISE Explorers) to survey the sea floor underneath the Arctic ice in support of their claim under Article 76 of the United Nations Convention of the Law of the Sea. Also, ultra-low-power, long-range variants such as underwater gliders are becoming capable of operating unattended for weeks or months in littoral and open ocean areas, periodically relaying data by satellite to shore, before returning to be picked up.\n\nAs of 2008, a new class of AUVs are being developed, which mimic designs found in nature. Although most are currently in their experimental stages, these biomimetic (or bionic) vehicles are able to achieve higher degrees of efficiency in propulsion and maneuverability by copying successful designs in nature. Two such vehicles are Festo's AquaJelly (AUV) and the EvoLogics BOSS Manta Ray.\n\nAUVs carry sensors to navigate autonomously and map features of the ocean. Typical sensors include compasses, depth sensors, sidescan and other sonars, magnetometers, thermistors and conductivity probes. Some AUVs are outfitted with biological sensors including fluorometers (also known as chlorophyll sensors), turbidity sensors, and sensors to measure pH, and amounts of dissolved oxygen.\n\nA demonstration at Monterey Bay, in California, in September 2006, showed that a diameter AUV can tow a -long hydrophone array while maintaining a cruising speed.\n\nRadio waves cannot penetrate water very far, so as soon as an AUV dives it loses its GPS signal. Therefore, a standard way for AUVs to navigate underwater is through dead reckoning. Navigation can however be improved by using an underwater acoustic positioning system. When operating within a net of sea floor deployed baseline transponders this is known as LBL navigation. When a surface reference such as a support ship is available, ultra-short baseline (USBL) or short-baseline (SBL) positioning is used to calculate where the sub-sea vehicle is relative to the known (GPS) position of the surface craft by means of acoustic range and bearing measurements. \nTo improve estimation of its position, and reduce errors in dead reckoning (which grow over time), the AUV can also surface and take its own GPS fix. \nBetween position fixes and for precise maneuvering, an Inertial Navigation System on board the AUV calculates through dead reckoning the AUV position, acceleration, and velocity. Estimates can be made using data from an Inertial Measurement Unit, and can be improved by adding a Doppler Velocity Log (DVL), which measures the rate of travel over the sea/lake floor. Typically, a pressure sensor measures the vertical position (vehicle depth), although depth and altitude can also be obtained from DVL measurements. These observations are filtered to determine a final navigation solution.\n\nThere are a couple of propulsion techniques for AUVs. Some of them use a brushed or brush-less electric motor, gearbox, Lip seal, and a propeller which may be surrounded by a nozzle or not. All of these parts embedded in the AUV construction are involved in propulsion. Other vehicles use a thruster unit to maintain the modularity. Depending on the need, the thruster may be equipped with a nozzle for propeller collision protection or to reduce noise submission, or it may be equipped with a direct drive thruster to keep the efficiency at the highest level and the noises at the lowest level. Advanced AUV thrusters have a redundant shaft sealing system to guarantee a proper seal of the robot even if one of the seals fails during the mission.\n\nUnderwater gliders do not directly propel themselves. By changing their buoyancy and trim, they repeatedly sink and ascend; airfoil \"wings\" convert this up-and-down motion to forward motion. The change of buoyancy is typically done through the use of a pump that can take in or push out water. The vehicle's pitch can be controlled by changing the center of mass of the vehicle. For Slocum gliders this is done internally by moving the batteries, which are mounted on a screw. Because of their low speed and low-power electronics, the energy required to cycle trim states is far less than for regular AUVs, and gliders can have endurances of months and transoceanic ranges.\n\nMost AUVs in use today are powered by rechargeable batteries (lithium ion, lithium polymer, nickel metal hydride etc.), and are implemented with some form of Battery Management System. Some vehicles use primary batteries which provide perhaps twice the endurance—at a substantial extra cost per mission. A few of the larger vehicles are powered by aluminum based semi-fuel cells, but these require substantial maintenance, require expensive refills and produce waste product that must be handled safely. An emerging trend is to combine different battery and power systems with supercapacitors.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1885045", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885045", "title": "List of R-phrases", "text": "List of R-phrases\n\nR-phrases (short for risk phrases) are defined in Annex III of European Union Directive 67/548/EEC: \"Nature of special risks attributed to dangerous substances and preparations\". The list was consolidated and republished in Directive 2001/59/EC, where translations into other EU languages may be found.\n\nThese risk phrases are used internationally, not just in Europe, and there is an ongoing effort towards complete international harmonization using the Globally Harmonized System of Classification and Labelling of Chemicals (GHS) which now generally replaces these risk phrases.\n\n\"Note:\" Missing R-numbers indicate phrases that have been deleted or replaced by other phrases.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1885052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885052", "title": "BPA", "text": "BPA\n\nBPA may refer to:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1885053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885053", "title": "FFH (band)", "text": "FFH (band)\n\nFFH (\"Far From Home\") is a Contemporary Christian band from Lancaster, Pennsylvania in the United States. The band is occasionally known as Far From Home.\n\nFormed in 1993, FFH released six independent projects before being signed by Essential Records. Since then, they have released seven studio albums, as well as a \"greatest-hits\" album.\n\nThe group formed as Four For Harmony, an a cappella group. Over time they developed a vocal acoustic pop style, similar to that of Avalon, and changed their name to Far From Home. That name was being used by a secular duo and they became known as FFH.\n\nFFH sang on ‘Shine Your Light’ With Nicole Nordeman and ‘Hide Me in Your Heart’ on ‘City On A Hill: Sing Alleluia’ (2002) , and on ‘Table of the Lord’ with Paul Coleman Trio on ‘City On A Hill: The Gathering’ (2003), and ‘Where Are You’ and ‘Merciful Rain’ on ‘City On A Hill: Songs Of Worship and Praise’ (2000). \n\nFollowing the release of their 2007 album, \"Worship in the Waiting\", they took a break from touring. The following is a statement from their official website:\n\n\"Jeromy and Jennifer are back from Africa and enjoying being settled at home. Their new baby girl Hope Sadie-Claire is doing great, and their son Hutch turned five in July. Jeromy and Jennifer have just put together some songs for a project they initially called, “Coming Home,\" but was officially released as \"Wide Open Spaces\" in 2009.\n\n\"Brian Smith is enjoying working in the business side of the music industry, and helping new bands find their way balancing ministry and finances. He and Allyson have their hands full with their three daughters, all under the age of six. Michael Boggs is busy touring, leading worship, and speaking. He has released two albums since the band's member's break-up, a hymns record, and a live worship record. 'We all remain very close. In fact, we still all live in the same neighborhood, so we see each other all the time.' Said Jeromy, 'There are no plans for a tour yet, but we are waiting for the Lord’s leading as to what may be next for us as a band.'\"\n\nJeromy Deibler was diagnosed with multiple sclerosis in 2007 after he and Jennifer got back from Africa. Jeromy is able to keep his MS under control with chemotherapy. The band returned in 2009 as a duo when members Jennifer and Jeromy Deibler released their independent album \"Wide Open Spaces\". It was re-released in 2010 on P-ID Blue. It was followed up in 2011 by \"One Silent Night: An FFH Christmas\". Then in 2012, FFH released their second worship album, and 11th studio album since their major label debut entitled, \"The Way We Worship.\"\n\nJeromy is a full-time worship leader at Journey Christian Church in Irvine, CA.\n\n\n\nNumerous FFH singles have charted, including \"Fly Away\" and \"Watching Over Me\" which hit the number one spot on Adult Contemporary radio and the Top 5 on Christian Hit Radio, \"On My Cross\" which had a two-week run at number one inspirational radio, \"One of These Days,\" \"Big Fish\" and \"I Want to Be Like You\". Also including hit single \"What It Feels Like\".\", which according to Jeromy Deibler is a song of lament. He explained: \"It talks about how it feels to walk the wilderness, to be undone, to be scared to death, to be unsure of anyone and anything, but eventually to feel the love and peace of God just the same.\" FFH released their song \"Undone\" in 2010 and it hit number 18 on the Billboard Hot Christian Songs chart; most of their songs were released before Billboard ranked Christian songs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1885054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885054", "title": "John Rocque", "text": "John Rocque\n\nJohn Rocque (originally Jean; c. 1704–1762) was a French-born British surveyor and cartographer, best known for his detailed map of London published in 1746. \n\nRocque was born in France in about 1704, one of four children of a Huguenot family who subsequently fled first to Geneva, and then, probably in 1709, to England. He became a godfather in 1728, which suggests he was at least twenty-one years old by that time.\n\nIn addition to his work as surveyor and mapmaker, Rocque was an engraver and map-seller. He was also involved in some way in gardening as a young man, living with his brother Bartholomew, who was a landscape gardener, and producing plans for parterres, perhaps recording pre-existing designs, but few details of this work are known. Rocque produced engraved plans of the gardens at Wrest Park (1735), Claremont (1738), Charles Hamilton's naturalistic landscape garden at Painshill Park, Surrey (1744), Wanstead House (1745) and Wilton House (1746).\n\nRocque is now remembered principally for his Map of London. He began work on this in 1737 and it was published in 24 printed sheets in 1746. It was by far the most detailed map of London published up to that time, and remains an important historical resource.\n\nThe map of London and his other maps brought him an appointment as cartographer to Frederick, Prince of Wales in 1751. A fire in 1750 destroyed his premises and stock, but by 1753 he was employing ten draughtsmen, and \"The Small British Atlas: Being a New set of Maps of all the Counties of England and Wales\" appeared. There was a second edition in 1762.\n\nHe also surveyed and published maps of Middlesex, Oxford, Berkshire, & Buckinghamshire in 1760.\n\nRocque spent six years in Dublin (1754–60), when he produced a number of maps of the Irish capital, as well as county maps of Dublin and Armagh, city maps of Kilkenny and Cork, and a series of sumptuously illustrated manuscript surveys of the estates of the then Earl of Kildare. His 1756 4-sheet \"Exact Survey of Dublin\" featured on an Irish ten pound banknote.\n\nThe hinterland of Dublin was covered by Rocque's \"A Survey of the City Harbour Bay and Environs of Dublin\", published in four sheets, in 1758. These extended as far as Skerries and Cardy Rocks to the north, Carton House to the west, Blessington to the south-west and Enniskerry to the south.\n\nRocque married twice. His widow, Mary Ann Rocque, continued the business after his death.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1885055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885055", "title": "Misión Santo Domingo de la Frontera", "text": "Misión Santo Domingo de la Frontera\n\nMisión Santo Domingo was founded among the Kiliwa Indians of Baja California, Mexico, by the Dominicans Miguel Hidalgo and Manuel García in 1775. It is located near Colonia Vicente Guerrero and northeast of San Quintín Bay ().\n\nThe first site of the mission was about 13 kilometers east of the coast, but the water supply proved to be inadequate. The mission was moved about 4 kilometers farther east in 1793. The native population dwindled under the impacts of Old World diseases, and after about 1821 the site ceased to be served by a resident priest. Ruined adobe walls survive to attest the mission's former presence.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1885056", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885056", "title": "List of S-phrases", "text": "List of S-phrases\n\nS-phrases are defined in Annex IV of European Union Directive 67/548/EEC: \"Safety advice concerning dangerous substances and preparations\". The list was consolidated and republished in Directive 2001/59/EC, where translations into other EU languages may be found. The list was subsequently updated and republished in Directive 2006/102/EC, where translations to additional European languages were added.\n\nThese safety phrases are used internationally and not just in Europe, and there is an ongoing effort towards complete international harmonization. \"(Note: missing S-number combinations indicate phrases that were deleted or replaced by another phrase.)\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1885059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885059", "title": "Waldburg-Waldsee", "text": "Waldburg-Waldsee\n\nWaldburg-Waldsee was a County ruled by the House of Waldburg, located in southeastern Baden-Württemberg, Germany, around Bad Waldsee.\n\nWaldburg-Waldsee was a partition of Waldburg-Wolfegg. When the Wolfegg branch extinguished in 1798, the Waldsee branch inherited Wolfegg. Waldburg-Waldsee was a County prior to 1803, when it was raised to a Principality shortly before being mediatised to Württemberg in 1806.\n\n\n\n\nWaldburg Wolfegg Waldsee\n"}
{"id": "1885065", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885065", "title": "Practical Television", "text": "Practical Television\n\nPractical Television, later known as \"Television\" and subsequently \"Television & Consumer Electronics\", was a UK magazine for the electronics/TV servicing trade, enthusiasts, and the general public.\n\n\"Practical Television\" was initially a supplement to \"Practical Wireless\" and available as a separate publication from September 1934. The first issue after the war was No. 1 in April 1950. The chief editor was F.J. Camm and it was published by George Newnes. It was closed in June 2008.\n"}
{"id": "1885075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885075", "title": "Russ Hiebert", "text": "Russ Hiebert\n\nRussel \"Russ\" Hiebert (born February 8, 1969) is a Canadian lawyer, politician and businessman. He was the Member of Parliament in the House of Commons of Canada for South Surrey—White Rock—Cloverdale from 2004 to 2015. He was born in Steinbach, Manitoba. He has a BA from Biola University, and an MBA and LL.B from the University of British Columbia. Hiebert was a practicing lawyer and small businessman prior to entering Parliament. He is married with four children.\n\nIn 2004, Hiebert won the Conservative Party of Canada nomination against veteran MP Val Meredith by 80 ballots in a vote by about 850 riding members. \nOn June 28, 2004, Hiebert was elected to the House of Commons in the 2004 federal election. He ran against Liberal candidate Judy Higginbotham, a veteran Surrey City Councillor, winning by more than 3400 votes. During his first term as MP, Hiebert served on the Ethics and Privacy Committee, founded and co-chaired the all-party Border Caucus, and co-chaired the Conservative Party Task Force on Safe Streets and Healthy Communities.\n\nIn the 2006 election, he was re-elected by an increased plurality when he received 47% of the vote; his nearest competitor, Liberal candidate Jim McMurtry, received 31%.\n\nOn February 8, 2006, Prime Minister Stephen Harper appointed Hiebert parliamentary secretary to the Minister of National Defence, Gordon O'Connor. Hiebert generated positive headlines in January 2007 when he delivered wheelchairs to a hospital in Kandahar, Afghanistan. While parliamentary secretary he served on the Defence Committee. In June 2006, he was elected by his colleagues from all parties to the chairmanship of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association. He also continued to serve as Conservative Co-Chairman of the all-party Parliamentary Border Caucus.\n\nOn October 10, 2007, Hiebert was appointed as the inaugural parliamentary secretary to the Minister of Intergovernmental Affairs and Minister of Western Economic Diversification, Rona Ambrose. Hiebert was also the leading government member of the Standing Committee on Ethics, Privacy and Access to Information which held hearings on the high profile Mulroney-Schreiber affair in fall 2007 and spring 2008.\n\nHis activities during his third term included leading a parliamentary committee's study into the activities of the Canadian Human Rights Commission, including review of the (now repealed) Section 13 hate speech provisions of the Canadian Human Rights Act. Hiebert served on the Commons Finance Committee, the Natural Resources Committee, and the International Human Rights Sub-Committee.\n\nIn the 2011 Canadian federal election, Hiebert won his riding with approximately 54% of the vote. He served on the International Trade Committee. He served one additional term as Canadian Branch Chairman of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association, serving seven consecutive terms in total. During his career he was also elected to serve two, three-year terms as the Canadian representative on the international executive of the CPA.\n\nHiebert's Private Members Bill, C-377, requiring labour unions to publicly disclose their finances was signed into law by Governor-General David Johnston on June 30, 2015 - the final piece of legislation to become law during the 41st Parliament. That bill was no longer in force as of December 21, 2015 and the current Justin Trudeau government introduced legislation to repeal the law, which was repealed on June 19, 2017.\n\nHiebert chose not to run again in the 2015 General Election, telling the Peace Arch News that he \"never intended to become a career politician\" and returned to his private business pursuits in the Surrey, BC community where he lives.\n\nRuss Hiebert was an opponent of the Liberal-proposed Carbon Tax of 2009, referring to it as \"job-killing\" and \"irresponsible\" during question period.\n\nHiebert spoke in opposition to Bill C-428, a proposal to reduce the residency requirement for entitlement to Old Age Security (OAS) from ten years to three years.\n\nIn September 2011, Hiebert spoke in Parliament in support of Bill C-10, the Safe Streets and Communities Act, stating that it \"would increase sentences for child sex offenders, end the use of house arrest for serious and violent crimes and increase penalties for drug dealers who specifically target our children.\"\n\nHiebert voted in favor of Motion 312, Stephen Woodworth's private member bill which called for an all-party committee of MPs to discuss when human life and legal personhood begins.\n\nIn December 2011, Hiebert put forth a private members bill, C-377, An Act to Amend the Income Tax Act (labour organizations). The bill would require labour unions to publicly disclose their spending. In December 2012, Bill C-377 passed Third Reading in the House of Commons with a vote of 147 to 135 and was subsequently passed by the Senate and given royal assent.\n\n"}
{"id": "1885076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885076", "title": "Khaz’al Khan Ibn Haji Jabir Khan", "text": "Khaz’al Khan Ibn Haji Jabir Khan\n\nKhaz'al bin Jabir bin Merdaw al-Ka'bi (، ) (18 August 1863 – 24 May 1936), \"Muaz us-Sultana\", and \"Sardar-e-Aqdas\" (\"Most Sacred Officer of the Imperial Order of the Aqdas\"), was the Ruler of Arabistan, the Sheikh of Mohammerah from the Kasebite clan of the Banu Ka'b, of which he was the Sheikh of Sheikhs, the Overlord of the Mehaisan tribal confederation and the Ruler of the Shatt al-Arab. He was the fifth and youngest son of Haji Jabir Khan Ibn Merdaw, and his mother, Sheikha Noura, was the daughter of Talal Bin Alwan, the Sheikh of the powerful Bawi tribe. He was born on 18 August 1863, in the village Qout Al Zain in the district of Abu Khasib in Basra and he ascended to the throne on 2 June 1897 upon the death of his brother and predecessor, Sheikh Miz'al Khan ibn Haji Jabir Khan.\n\nOn 2 June 1897, Khaz'al inherited the Emirate of Mohammerah. The Emirate, although within the Persian Empire, was autonomous and allowed to conduct its own affairs.\n\nThroughout Khaz’al's reign (1897-1925), he was one of the most important political figures in the Persian Gulf and a prominent supporter of Britain's presence in the region. Although never formally a part of the British Empire, the Gulf had been effectively incorporated into the British imperial system since the early 19th century. The conclusion of treaties and agreements with the region's various tribal rulers was one of the central means by which Britain enforced its hegemonic presence, and Khaz’al was no exception to this trend.\n\nIndeed, Khaz’al actively fostered close relations with Britain in an attempt to gain their assurance that in the event of the Qajar Empire collapsing or being overthrown, Arabistan would be formally recognised by Britain as an independent state with him as its ruler.\n\nAfter oil was discovered by the Anglo-Iranian Oil Company (the forerunner of BP) in Arabistan in 1908, Britain strengthened its ties to Khaz’al further. In 1910 he was made a Knight Commander of the Indian Empire. During his reign Sheikh Khaz'al held a percentage of shares in BP. Those shares were later taken by force by Reza Khan.\n\nKhaz’al sought to prove his loyalty to Britain in return and he acted as a key ally throughout the First World War during which he suppressed a pro-Ottoman tribal uprising in his domains. Khaz'al was also the darling of many Sunnite Iraqi nationalists, who sought to foment dissent among Iran's Arab population by referring to Khuzestan as \"Arabestān\" and glorifying Khaz'al as its independent \"Sultan\". Khaz'al became a strong candidate for the throne of Iraq, but later withdrew his candidacy in favour of Faisal I of Iraq.\n\nThe tribal leaders of the Bani Kaab, an Arab tribe which had originally come from the area of what is now Kuwait in the 16th century, had often been the Imperial-appointed tax farmers of Arabistan for many years after the fall of the Mush'a\"sha\"iya. The Bani Kaab were the largest and most powerful tribe in the province. In the early 19th century the Bani Kaab had dissolved into a number of rival clans that often clashed and feuded with each other.\n\nOf these factions, the Muhaisin clan, led by Haji Jabir Khan Ibn Merdaw, became the strongest and under his leadership the Bani Kaab were reunified under a single authority, the capital of Arabistan being moved from the village of Fallahiyah to the flourishing port city of Mohammerah. Unlike previous rulers of Arabistan, Jabir maintained law and order, and established Mohammerah as a free port and sheikhdom, of which he was Sheikh. Jabir also became the Imperial-appointed governor-general of the province.\n\nAfter Jabir's death in 1881, his elder son, Maz'al, took over as tribal leader and Sheikh of Mohammerah, as well as the provincial governor-general, which was confirmed by an Imperial firman (executive order). However, in June 1897 Maz'al was killed. Some accounts state that he was assassinated by his younger brother, Khaz'al, while others state that this was done by a palace guard under orders from Khaz'al.\n\nThereafter Khaz'al assumed his position as Sheikh of Mohammerah, proclaiming himself not only the leader of the Bani Kaab, but also the ruler of the entire province. He then appointed his sons to the governorships of the various cities, towns and villages within his control, including Naseriyeh.\n\nUnlike his brother, Khaz'al had ambition. He had great vision for the future of Arabistan and the Arabs. His rule in Arabistan was \"Supreme and unhindered\". The Arabs saw him as:\n\nThe oil industry owed its early success to Sheikh Khaz'al. Once oil was discovered in Masjed Soleyman in 1908, by the Anglo-Persian Oil Company (APOC), later BP, Khaz'al's ties to Britain strengthened. In 1909, the British government asked Percy Cox, British resident to Bushehr, to negotiate an agreement with Khaz'al for APOC to obtain a site on Abadan Island for a refinery, depot, storage tanks, and other operations. The refinery was built and began operating in 1912. Khaz'al was knighted in 1910 and supported Britain in World War I.\n\nFollowing the discovery of oil in Arabistan-controlled territory, the British moved quickly to establish control over the vast oil resources in the province, which culminated in the foundation of the Anglo-Persian Oil Company in 1909. The British established a treaty with Khaz'al, whereby in exchange for their guaranteed support and protection against any external attack, he would also guarantee to maintain internal security and not interfere with the process of oil extraction. As part of the treaty they were given a monopoly of drilling in the province in return for an annual payment to Khaz'al, though the profits of the company vastly exceeded the annual payments.\n\nAPOC had made Khaz’al extremely wealthy. Not only was Khaz’al receiving revenue from oil production but he also owned a certain amount of shares in the oil company. It was said that \"In all Arabia and its Sheikhdoms, in Mesopotamia and Iran, from the Red Sea to the Caspian, there was no sovereign so rich as Sheikh Khaz’al.\"\n\nIn 1920, the Sheikh of Kuwait, Salim Al Mubarak Al Sabah, ambushed Ibn Saud's men over a border dispute between Kuwait and Najd. When Percy Cox was informed of this event, he sent a letter to Khaz'al offering the Kuwaiti throne to either him or one of his heirs, knowing that Khaz'al would be a wiser ruler. Khaz'al, who considered the Al Sabah as his own family, replied \"Do you expect me to allow the stepping down of Al Mubarak from the throne of Kuwait? Do you think I can accept this?\" He then asked:\n\nIn November 1923, when Khaz’al Khan had seen Ahmad Shah Qajar off, as he was crossing the border for Europe, the Emperor had told him about his fears of Reza Khan's ambitions in the same way as he had spoken openly to Percy Loraine. Then came the Shah's telegram of April 1924 about his loss of confidence in Reza Khan. In the following summer, Khaz’al brought together some regional magnates and tribal heads - the Vali of Poshtkuh, heads of the Khamseh federation of tribes, and many of the local Arab tribal leaders - in a coalition to resist Reza. They described themselves as the \"Committee of the Rising for Happiness\", and sent telegrams and statements to Tehran. Their statements demanded constitutional government and the return of the Shah, who they said had been forced to remain in Europe. They also attacked military violations of the people's rights in the provinces, and ‘the massacres of Loristan’; demanded Reza Khan's dismissal; and described the Prince Regent, Ali Reza Khan Azod al-Molk, as the legitimate fount of authority. It was all in the name of the law, justice and the constitution, and ‘in the illustrious name of His Imperial Majesty Soltan Ahmad Shah, the constitutional monarch’. The committee sought to defend and protect Constitutionalism, and stop the traitors and criminals freely dispensing with it and re-establishing the apparatus of arbitrary rule and injustice once again ... and stop Reza Khan from trampling the principles of democratic government under foot by arbitrary government.\"\nThe Prince Regent wrote an encouraging letter to Khaz’al, all in the name of the Shah and for protection of the constitution, and said that the bearer would discuss matters with the Shaikh in detail. The Shah and the court did not have the courage to commit themselves firmly to such a movement, but would go along with it if there was a very good change of success. Reza Khan subsequently sent him a bombastic tactless telegram, after which the Sheikh expressed his determination to overthrow Reza Khan or perish in the attempt. He declared that he would abandon his defensive measures only if Reza agreed to the following: \"(i) to give written guarantees regarding the safety of life and property of those who were helping the Sheikh - especially the Bakhtiari Amir Mujahid. (ii) to withdraw all troops from Arabistan including Bebehan; (iii) to cancel the revenue settlement of the previous year and return to the pre-war basis; and (iv) to give a more specific confirmation of his firmans. On September 13th the British Political Resident was told to convey a message to Reza Khan to accept Khaz'al's conditions.\"In the meantime, the Political Resident had interviewed the Sheikh, his second son (Sheikh Abdul Hamid), the Bakhtiari Amir Mujahid and Colonel Riza Quli Khan (who had replaced Colonel Baqir Khan at Shushtar but who had apparently thrown in his lot with the Sheikh); all declared that no peace with Reza Khan was possible; the Sheikh had telegraphed to the Majlis explaining that his opposition was to Reza Khan personally and that it was hoped to persuade the Shah to return. On September 16 the Sheikh had also addressed a telegram to the foreign legations in Tehran in the nature of a proclamation against Reza Khan, who was described as a usurper and a transgressor of the Persian Empire. Reza sent a telegram to Khaz’al that stating that he should either apologise to him and relent publicly, or take the full consequences.\n\nKhaz’al and his remaining associates could muster an army of 25,000 men, which was no less than Reza Khan could throw in the region at the time. In fact the army he had amassed at the foot of the Loristan elevations was 15,000 strong. But Khaz’al did not dare to go into action without British approval. The British government was in no mood to go to war on Khaz’al's behalf. Loraine convinced Khaz’al to desist and to apologize to Reza Khan. In return, he promised to intervene with Reza Khan to halt the advance of his troops into Arabistan. The Shaikh sent an apology, but, realizing that the danger had passed, Reza Khan paid little attention to Loraine's representations on the Shaikh's behalf. He let the troops pour into Arabistan, and demanded that Khaz’al should surrender unconditionally and go straight to Tehran. The Foreign Office was very unhappy at Reza Khan's intransigence. In the presence of Loraine, Khaz’al and Reza met and even swore an oath of friendship on the Qur’an. After a short while, Reza broke all his pledges. In April 1925, he ordered one of his commanders, who had a friendly relationship with Khaz'al, to meet Khaz'al. The commander, General Fazlollah Zahedi, accompanied by several government officials, met with Khaz'al and spent an evening with him onboard his yacht, anchored in the Shatt al-Arab river by his palace in Failiyeh near the city of Mohammerah. Later that evening several gunboats, sent by Reza Khan, stealthily made their way next to the yacht, which was then immediately boarded by fifty Persian troops. The soldiers kidnapped Khaz'al and took him by motorboat down the river to Mohammerah, where a car was waiting to take him to the military base in Ahwaz. From there he was taken to Dezful, along with his son and heir, and then to the city of Khorramabad in Lorestan, and then eventually to Tehran.\n\nUpon his arrival, Khaz'al was warmly greeted and well received by Reza Khan, who assured him that his problems would be quickly settled, and that in the meantime, he would be treated very well. However, many of his personal assets in Arabistan were quickly liquidated and his properties eventually came under the domain of the Imperial government after Reza Khan was crowned the new Shah. The emirate was abolished and the provincial authority took full control of regional affairs.\n\nKhaz'al spent the rest of his life under virtual house arrest, unable to travel beyond Tehran's city limits. He was able to retain ownership of his properties in Kuwait and Iraq, where he was exempted from taxation. In May 1936, while alone in his house, as earlier in the day his servants had been taken to court by the police, he was murdered by one of the guards stationed outside his house under direct orders from Reza Shah.\n\nSheikh Khaz'al was an active Freemason and a recipient of many high Masonic honours. Up until his death, Sheikh Khaz'al was the most influential of all Masons of the Middle East. It is not clear when exactly Sheikh Khaz'al joined Freemasonry. What is known, is that he was the first Freemason among the inhabitants of the Persian Gulf, and that he became the Grand Master of Freemasonry in all Mesopotamia. It is likely that the East India Co. established the first Masonic lodge in the area and that Sheikh Khaz'al became its first chairman.\n\nA secret document found after the seizure of Masonic lodges in Egypt was the agenda for al-Abbasi Lodge No. 223 of Cairo for its meeting of 16 December 1923. One of the items discussed the subject of presenting Sheikh Khaz'al, the chairman of 'Khaz'al' lodge, and the regional Grand Master of Mesopotamia, with a decoration in recognition of his valuable services to Freemasonry.\n\n\" The bestowal of honours to all of the Brothers mentioned, in recognition of their great services:\n\nFirstly - His Greatness, the Sardar Aqdas, Ruler of Arabistan and Prince of Nuyan, respected Brother, Khaz'al Khan Sultan of Mohammerah, and Chairman of the Khaz'al Khan Lodge and Provincial Grand Master of Mesopotamia...\"\n\nIn October 1914, the Assyrian genocide occurred whereby thousands of Chaldeans were killed or deported by the Ottoman Empire. After having experienced such atrocities on the hands of the Ottomans, the Chaldean Catholics began to migrate away from their homeland, in search of somewhere safer. Some of these emigrants found their way to the city of Ahwaz where,\"...under the protective shadow of His Highness the Sardar Aqdas… they found refugee, and when their numbers increased, they approached His Highness asking for a plot of land that they may build a church and a school to bring up their children and he accepted with what he promised of the welcoming of the heart and the tolerance of the palm and he granted them the land and he provided them endowment. The Chaldeans had found in Ahwaz justice and safety and were envied by their brothers who had not emigrated.\" \nWhen the Patriarch of Babylon for the Chaldean Catholics, Emmanuel Joseph saw what had been done, in the year 1920, he decided to repeat what he had seen to Pope Benedict XV. He explained that those of his spiritual children who had remained happy in the East were the ones who emigrated to Ahwaz and lived under the shadow of the Sardar Aqdas. The Pope was moved by the benevolence of Sheikh Khaz’al Khan towards those who were distressed amongst the children of the church and he granted him the Order of St Gregory the Great of the rank of Knight Commander, announcing his thanks and his acknowledgment of \"...the grace of this great and generous Arab King\".\n\nThe first of a number of attempts to rescue Khaz’al was in 1927 by King Faisal I of Iraq. Faisal felt that the arrest of Khaz’al and the injustice of the Persian government towards Arabistan were severe and cruel. Moreover, Faisal felt that he was in debt to Khaz’al for withdrawing his candidacy for the throne of Iraq. For Faisal, after being deposed from the Kingship of Syria, was a King without a country. He viewed this mission not only as an act of loyalty, but more importantly, of duty. Faisal informed Nuri al-Said of his plan to which the latter recommended using diplomacy rather than physical intervention.\n\nMeanwhile, al-Said, without Faisal's knowledge, informed Henry Dobbs, the British Ambassador to Iraq, of the latters intentions of kidnapping Khaz’al. Dobbs immediately met with Faisal and warned him of the consequences of such an act, stating that ‘\"His Majesty's Government\"’ would take a firm stand against him. \"Do not play with fire, King Faisal,\" warned Dobbs.\n\nThe official author of the book is Khaz’al, but it was written by the Syrian poet and journalist, Abdul Maseeh al Antaki. Born in Aleppo, with Greek origins, he emigrated to Egypt and travelled the Arab world. He established the \"Al Omran\" newspaper in Egypt and became a frequent figure in Khaz’al's court.\n\nHe explains, in the introduction of the book, his objective:\"“...and here I am mentioning His Highness the Sardar Aqdas, so that the reader my learn that His Highness the author is the bearer of the sword and the pen, and that amongst the Arab Kings and Princes he is the greatest King, the most magnificent Prince, the respectable gentleman, the most knowledgeable of the knowledgeable, and I am full of what I have seen myself and have known after my long mission and my study, unexaggerated in my story, and not passed the line of rationality and guidance, so that the Arabs may know that His Highness the Sovereign the Mu’iz has combined between determination and knowledge, and has been struck by both by the most blessed arrow, that is how that Kings and Princes should be, if they sought to revive the glory of their forefathers.”\" \n\n\"\"Mention one who does not know him. For he is amongst the Arab Princes. His Emirate being within the vicinity of the Persian Empire. He is the eldest, after King Hussein, the first to fame, and the greatest in generosity. This is what is known by most of those who know in the Arab countries. What most people outside of Kuwait and Basrah do not know, is that this Arab Prince is of the status of the Princes of the Abbasid era for he is rich, wise and generous together. He is like the Barmakids in his generosity, his taste, and his literature. He loves music, literature and poetry and leans towards all that provides pleasure and joy, be it mental, social or physical. Yes, the Sheikh Khaz'al has a universal humanitarian taste, for he does not alienate that which is ugly or vilified in life, and he knows no preference or discrimination in his generosity. A singer visits from Aleppo or Damascus to Mohammerah with nothing but her anklets. After residing a few months at the palace, she returns rich and laden with jewels. And the poets come with poems of praise in their pockets, and return from Mohammerah with bags of gold. He is not in need of my testimony for if he were to wear his official gown, he carries on his chest the testimonies of the Kings of the Earth, of which is the Papal Order of Saint Gregory the Great. Amongst those honours are two which are not seen by all, yet are only seen by those who look at this man with the eye of poetry and philosophy. For in his human capacity, he holds decorations from the philosopher Epicurus and the wise divine mystic Ibn Arabi.\"\"\n\nIn regard to religious extremism, Khaz'al said:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1885081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885081", "title": "W69", "text": "W69\n\nThe W69 was a United States nuclear warhead used in AGM-69 SRAM Short-Range Attack Missiles.\n\nIt was designed in the early 1970s and entered the U.S. stockpile in 1972. It remained in service until 1992, with the last units being retired in 1996. About 1,500 were produced.\n\nBy 1999, all the warhead's various parts had been dismantled. The high explosives were removed from around the plutonium pits at the Pantex Plant and the pits were put into secure storage. Non-nuclear components were taken to the Savannah River Site and the National Security Campus. The canned subassemblies were moved to Y-12 National Security Complex, where recovery of the uranium began in 2012 and was completed in 2016.\n\nThe W69 warhead was one of many derived from the B61 nuclear bomb design.\n\nThe W69 had a diameter of and was long. It weighed . It had a yield of between 170-200 kilotons. \n\n"}
{"id": "1885086", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885086", "title": "Jean Ritchie", "text": "Jean Ritchie\n\nJean Ruth Ritchie (December 8, 1922 – June 1, 2015) was an American folk music singer, songwriter, and Appalachian dulcimer player. Her career bridged traditional and modern forms of folk music. In her youth she learned folksongs in the traditional way (orally, from her family and members of her community); and in adulthood she became a successful modern folksinger, promulgating songs in public through concerts and recordings. She was called by some the \"Mother of Folk\".\n\nJean Ritchie was born to Abigail (née Hall) and Balis W. Ritchie of Viper, an unincorporated community in Perry County in the Cumberland Mountains of south eastern Kentucky. The Ritchies of Perry County were one of the two \"great ballad-singing families\" of Kentucky celebrated among folk song scholars (the other was the Combs family of adjacent Knott County, whose repertoire formed the basis of the first scholarly work on the British ballads in America, a doctoral thesis by Professor Josiah Combs of Berea College for the Sorbonne University published in Paris in 1925.) In 1917, the folk music collector Cecil Sharp collected songs from Jean's older sisters Una and May. Many of the Ritchies attended the Hindman Settlement School, a folk school, where people were encouraged to cherish their own backgrounds and where Sharp also found many of his songs. Jean's father Balis had printed up a book of old songs entitled \"Lovers' Melodies\", and music making was an important activity in the Ritchie home.\n\nRitchie's forebears had fought in the Revolutionary War in 1776 before settling in Kentucky, and most of them later fought on the Confederate Side in the Civil War. Her grandfather Justice Austin Ritchie was 2nd Lieutenant of Company C of the 13th Kentucky Confederate Cavalry. Alan Lomax wrote that:They were quiet, thoughtful folks, who went in for ballads, big families and educating their children. Jean's grandmother was a prime mover in the Old Regular Baptist Church, and all the traditional hymn tunes came from her. Jean's Uncle Jason was a lawyer, who remembers the big ballads like \"Lord Barnard.\" Jean's father taught school, printed a newspaper, fitted specs, farmed and sent ten of his fourteen children to college.\n\nAs the youngest of 14 siblings, Ritchie was one of ten girls who slept in one room of the farming family's farm house. She was quick to memorize songs and, with Chalmers and Velma McDaniels, performed at local dances and at county fairs, where they repeatedly won blue ribbons in Hazard, the county seat. She recalled that when the family acquired a radio in the late 1940s they discovered that what they had been singing was hillbilly music, a word they had never heard before.\n\nRitchie graduated from high school in Viper and enrolled in Cumberland Junior College (now a four-year University of the Cumberlands) in Williamsburg, Kentucky, and from there graduated Phi Beta Kappa with a B.A. in social work from the University of Kentucky, in Lexington in 1946. At college she participated in the glee club and choir and learned to play piano. During World War II, she taught in elementary school. After graduating she got a job as a social worker at the Henry Street Settlement, where she taught music to children. There she befriended Alan Lomax, who recorded her extensively for the Library of Congress. She joined the New York folksong scene and met Lead Belly, Pete Seeger, and Oscar Brand. In 1948, she shared the stage with The Weavers, Woody Guthrie, and Betty Sanders at the Spring Fever Hootenanny and by October 1949 was a regular guest on Oscar Brand's Folksong Festival radio show on WNYC. In 1949 and 1950, she recorded several hours of songs, stories, and oral history for Lomax in New York City. Elektra records signed her and released three albums: \"Jean Ritchie Sings\" (1952), \"Songs of Her Kentucky Mountain Family\" (1957) and \"A Time for Singing\" (1962).\n\nIn the early 1940s, Ritchie's future husband George Pickow was introduced to folk music when he heard Cisco Houston and Woody Guthrie jamming every night in a tiny cabin at the left-wing Camp Unity summer camp in upstate New York. The Brooklyn-born Pickow, who had studied painting at Cooper Union and made training films for the Navy in World War II, had a long career as a professional photographer and filmmaker. His career also included an extensive documentation of his wife's work and his photographs illustrated many of her books. Pickow and Ritchie met in 1948 at a square dance at the Henry Street Settlement. The following day, Pickow invited her to accompany him on a photo shoot at the Fulton Fish Market. \"The result — Ms. Ritchie perched on the hood of a truck, holding a rather large lobster — was published in a trucking-industry magazine.\" They married in 1950 and had two sons, Peter and Jon. In 1952, Pickow accompanied his wife on a Fulbright Scholarship to collect folk songs in Britain and Ireland. When Alan Lomax, then working out of London for the BBC, and his collaborator Peter Kennedy of the English Folk Dance and Song Society, decided to document the unique May Eve and May Day Festivals at Padstow in Cornwall, they selected Pickow to be their cameraman. The result was the 16-minute color film \"Oss Oss Wee Oss\" (1953). In 1961, Pickow and Lomax collaborated on a short film documentary about the Greenwich Village folk revival scene intended to be shown on the BBC. This never happened, however, and ten years later Alan's daughter Anna Lomax Wood, edited the surviving scraps and fragments in her father's office into a short film, \"Ballads, Blues, and Bluegrass\". In addition to Ritchie, \"Ballads, Blues, and Bluegrass\" features what one reviewer called \"killer footage\" of performances by Clarence Ashley, Guy Carawan, Willie Dixon, Ramblin' Jack Elliott, Roscoe Holcomb, Peter La Farge, Ernie Marrs, The New Lost City Ramblers, Memphis Slim, and the first known footage of a very young Doc Watson. In the audience are Maria Muldaur and Bob Dylan. Despite apocryphal tales, John Cohen of the New Lost City Ramblers affirms that Bob Dylan is not the male clog dancer at the beginning of the film. Pickow, who had been in declining health for a long time, died December 10, 2010, two days after Ritchie's 88th birthday.\n\nRitchie preferred to sing without instrumental accompaniment, but occasionally she also accompanied herself on autoharp, guitar or on a handmade plucked Appalachian dulcimer. The latter instrument is also called the \"mountain dulcimer\" and is distinct from the hammer dulcimer; it is an intimate indoor instrument with a soft, ethereal sound. Her father had played the Appalachian dulcimer but forbade his children to touch it. At the age of four or five, however, Ritchie defied this prohibition and picked out \"Go Tell Aunt Rhody\".\n\nBy 1949, Ritchie's playing of the Appalachian dulcimer had become a hallmark of her style. After her husband made one for her as a present, the couple decided there might be a potential market for them. Pickow's uncle, Morris Pickow, set up an instrument workshop for them under the Williamsburg Bridge in Brooklyn. At first they were shipped to New York in an unfinished state by Ritchie's Kentucky relative, Jethro Amburgey, then the woodworking instructor at the Hindman Settlement School. George did the finishing and Jean did the tuning and soon they had sold 300 dulcimers. Later they manufactured them themselves from start to finish, Today there are dulcimers for sale at most folk festivals. Because fans kept asking her \"Which album has the most dulcimer?\", she finally recorded an album called \"The Most Dulcimer\" in 1992.\n\nJean Ritchie was awarded a Fulbright scholarship to trace the links between American ballads and the songs from Britain and Ireland. As a song-collector, she began by setting down the 300 songs that she already knew from her mother's knee. Ritchie spent 18 months tape recording and interviewing singers. Pickow accompanied her, photographing Seamus Ennis, Leo Rowsome, Sarah Makem and other musicians. In 1955 Ritchie wrote a book about her family called \"Singing Family of the Cumberlands\".\n\nRitchie became known as \"The Mother of Folk\". As well as work songs and ballads, Ritchie knew hymns from the \"Old Regular Baptist\" church she attended in Jeff, Kentucky. These were sung as \"lining out\" songs, in a lingering soulful way. One of the songs they sang was \"Amazing Grace\". She wrote some songs, including \"Black Waters\", one on the effects of strip mining in Kentucky. (Some of Ritchie's late 1950s/early 1960s songs on mining she published under the pseudonym \"'Than Hall\" to avoid troubling her non-political mother, and believing they might be better received if attributed to a man.)\n\n\"My Dear Companion\" appeared on the album \"Trio\" recorded by Linda Ronstadt, Dolly Parton, and Emmylou Harris. Judy Collins recorded some of Ritchie's traditional songs, \"Tender Ladies\" and \"Pretty Saro\", and also used a photograph by George Pickow on the front of her album \"Golden Apples of the Sun\" (1962). Ritchie's 50th anniversary album was \"Mountain Born\" (1995), which features her two sons, Peter and Jonathan Pickow. In 1954 Ritchie and George Pickow released some of their UK recordings under the name \"Field Trip\". It was re-issued in 2001 on the Greenhays label. It has recordings by Elizabeth Cronin, Seamus Ennis, and others, side by side with Ritchie family versions of the same songs.\n\nIn 1996 the Ritchie Pickow Photographic Archive was acquired by the James Hardiman Library, National University of Ireland, Galway.\n\nJean Ritchie performed at such venues as Carnegie Hall and at the Royal Albert Hall. Her album, \"None But One\", was awarded the Rolling Stone Critics Award in 1977. Ritchie is a recipient of a 2002 National Heritage Fellowship awarded by the National Endowment for the Arts, which is the United States' highest honor in the folk and traditional arts.\n\nFor many years, Ritchie lived in Port Washington, New York. In 2008, she was inducted into the Long Island Music Hall of Fame.\n\nIn early December 2009, Ritchie was hospitalized after suffering a stroke which impaired her ability to communicate. She recovered to some degree and lived quietly at her home in Berea, Kentucky; a friend reported on her 90th birthday, \"Jean has been living quietly in Berea for the last few years, in good spirits and well cared for by neighbors and family.\" She died at home on 1 June 2015, aged 92.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1885087", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885087", "title": "Cyrus Thomas", "text": "Cyrus Thomas\n\nCyrus Thomas (July 27, 1825 – June 26, 1910) was a U.S. ethnologist and entomologist prominent in the late 19th century and noted for his studies of the natural history of the American West.\n\nThomas was born in Kingsport, Tennessee, on July 27, 1825, and was of German and Irish descent. He was educated in village schools in the Kingsport area and an academy student at Jonesboro, Tennessee, as well as being self-educated. His mother hoped he would join the medical field, so he studied anatomy and physiology, but he was uninterested in medicine and took to the study of law. He was admitted to the Illinois bar in 1851 and practiced in Murphysboro. Between his study of medicine and law his father, Dr. John Logan, appointed him to a county seat to \"take charge of some business\".\n\nFrom 1851 to 1854 Thomas served as county clerk of Jackson County, Illinois. He later abandoned the practice of law, and in 1865 became superintendent of some Jackson County schools. This lasted only for a few years. Also during this time he entered the ministry of the Evangelical Lutheran Church, but was forced to abandon the ministry, as well, due to his \"intense independent thought\". Four years later in 1869 he joined the expedition of Ferdinand Vandeveer Hayden, who had organized a science corps for the exploration of the Rocky Mountains.\n\nThomas gained a strong interest in natural history, and in 1858 he founded the Illinois Natural History Society. In 1869 his professional scientific career began with his appointment as an assistant in entomology in the United States Geological and Geographical Survey of the Territories under Professor Ferdinand Vandeveer Hayden. Thomas was also the agricultural statistician and entomologist on the Hayden Geological Survey of 1871, whose work supported the creation of Yellowstone National Park in 1872.\n\nIn 1873 Thomas was appointed a professor of natural science at Southern Illinois Normal University, which gave him a public forum for his ideas. He was later named to the United States Entomological Commission in 1877 to serve alongside Charles Valentine Riley and Alpheus Spring Packard; at the same time he accepted the position of chief entomologist for the State of Illinois. He kept his title of chief entomologist until 1882 after the commission came to an end in 1879. At this time, 1882, he was appointed archaeologist to the United States Bureau of American Ethnology.\n\nThomas was married twice, having lost his first wife, Dorthy Logan, sister of Maj. Gen.and later U.S. Senator John A. Logan. He remarried in 1865 to Viola L. Davis. With her, he fathered five girls and one boy, who died in infancy. Thomas died on June 26, 1910, and was buried in Frederick, Maryland.\n\nThomas made some noteworthy contributions as an entomologist, having helped control the insect plague that was retarding the growth of the border states. Thomas, working with Charles V. Riley, found that the Hessian fly, which was terrorizing the wheat and rye of the western states, was most destructive in wet seasons and least destructive in dry seasons. With this information they were able to predict the outbreaks rather accurately for the upcoming year, and entomologists and farmers worked together for better times to plant and harvest.\n\nThe chinch bug was another culprit damaging crops. Thomas and LeBaron, using the same tactic of studying the chinch bug's relationship to the weather, found that chinch bugs needed at least one or two dry seasons to reach outbreak proportions. Thomas found a pattern between the chinch bug and weather, concluding that outbreaks can be expected about every seven years and then for two years in a row. After presenting his findings he accurately predicted an outbreak in 1881.\n\nHe also accompanied expeditions to the West as an entomologist—one of these being the Hayden Geological Survey of 1871. On this expedition Thomas addressed the problem of locusts with Riley and Packard (this was also the creation of the United States Entomological commission). During this investigation they found the locusts' breeding ground, how the weather affected them, and what controlled their direction-wind.\n\nHowever, Thomas is best known for his work in archaeology and ethnology—specifically, his contributions to the question of the origin of the mound builders and Mayan hieroglyphics.\n\nThomas was not a field archaeologist. He visited the sites on which he reported, but did little if any field work. He had permanent and temporary field assistants and one clerical assistant. They provided him with their notes, which he organized, formed into a report, and published.\n\nWhen Thomas began his investigations into the origins of the mound builders, he was under the impression that the mounds were made by a more advanced race that no longer existed. He argued that once America had been settled the people tended to stay in one place, which meant that the archaeological record had been produced by the same people of that area through history. Although he did not do field work he mapped out a plan of action for the mound excavations, and presented ten years of work in the 12th Annual Report of the Bureau of Ethnology for 1890–91. By the end of his research into the origin of the mound builders Thomas dismissed each argument advanced in favor of the vanished race theory. The Bat Creek Inscription was one artifact that Thomas used to support his hypothesis that \"the Cherokee constructed many earthen mounds\"; the evidence being that \"the stone represented characters of Cherokee syllabary\".\n\nThomas divided the mounds into a northern section, which was divided into six sections, and a southern section, which was divided into two. These eight sections, Thomas suggested, represent more than one nation. Thomas thought that migration was the reason for the mounds being spread through the east, but also recognized that the idea for mounds diffused through the different tribes.\n\nThomas also wrote on climatology, a new field in the 19th century. He was a leading proponent of the now-debunked theory known as \"Rain follows the plow\", which stated that increased population and cultivation of the Great Plains would render the land lush and fertile. This theory was used to promote expansion into the American West, in order to persuade would-be settlers that the \"current\" lack of precipitation would not hinder their ability to engage in agriculture.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1885104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885104", "title": "Semiregular space", "text": "Semiregular space\n\nA semiregular space is a topological space whose regular open sets (sets that equal the interiors of their closures) form a base.\n\nEvery regular space is semiregular, and every topological space may be embedded into a semiregular space.\n\nSemiregular spaces should not be confused with locally regular spaces, spaces in which there is a base of open sets that induce regular subspaces. For example, the bug-eyed line is locally regular but not semiregular.\n"}
{"id": "1885107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885107", "title": "Thomas E. Klocek", "text": "Thomas E. Klocek\n\nThomas E. Klocek is a former part-time instructor at DePaul University. His teaching career at DePaul ended as a result of an altercation with pro-Palestinian students at an exhibit in the cafeteria of DePaul's downtown Chicago campus. His supporters have argued that he is a victim of \"political correctness\" and that his right to free speech has been violated. The university however, has stated that he was fired due to \"belligerent and menacing\" conduct towards students, which included shouting and throwing papers. DePaul University offered Klocek, who was not tenured, the continuation of his teaching position if he apologized to the students for his behavior. Klocek rejected this and instead sued the school for defamation and breach of contract. The case was dismissed.\n\nKlocek instructed students as a part-time adjunct professor at the School for New Learning, a school for working adults. There Klocek created and taught a variety of courses ranging from “Languages & Cultures of the World” to “Russian and American Founding Documents”. He taught at DePaul university for 15 years, during which time he received consistently positive student reviews. Klocek's area of expertise were Slavic languages and Russian and Old Slavic literature. Klocek, who did not have a PhD, noted that initially he took the part-time position because he was working on a doctoral thesis, but that got caught up in his teaching and never finished his dissertation.\n\nDuring the yearly Loop Student Fair campus event where student groups setup exhibits in the school's cafeteria, Klocek approached the exhibit maintained by Students for Justice in Palestine. There an altercation ensued between four students and Klocek. Another four students from a group called \"United Muslims Moving Ahead\" from a neighboring exhibit became involved in the altercation. After approximately 30 minutes, other student groups called the faculty to intervene. Klocek was escorted out of the cafeteria by campus security, but returned and made a gesture towards the students, before leaving again. The students complained to the University about the altercation, describing it as a \"racist encounter\".\n\nThe students noted that they first noticed Klocek pacing back and forth near their exhibit. They then claim that he approached their exhibit and began asking questions. They claim that as they responded, he would quickly change the subject erratically from one subject to another. They claim that he eventually stated that there was no such thing as a Palestinian people. When one student interjected that she was Palestinian, the students claim that Klocek began to shout and throw the material on their stall at them, at which point students from a neighboring exhibit, the United Muslims Moving Ahead got involved. They claim that Klocek began shouting profanities at them and told them that their religion was based on terror. The students claim that after campus security removed Klocek from the event, he returned, \"made an obscene hand gesture (he flipped us off)\" and left.\n\nKlocek claims that he approached the group because he disagreed with the content of the groups' leaflets. He stated that one leaflet described the death of American activist Rachel Corrie in Israel as \"murder\"; a charge which he considered to be offensive. As the debate became more heated, Klocek claims that the students compared Israel to Nazi Germany at which point a shouting match ensued. Klocek acknowledges that he told the United Muslims Moving Ahead student group that all terrorist attacks were committed by Muslims, but he claims that he was quoting Chicago Sun-Times columnist Neil Steinberg. Klocek also acknowledged that he raised his voice, but he denied using profanity. Klocek denies throwing the exhibit material at the students and claims that he put that back in a stack. Klocek also acknowledged that he returned and confronted the students again after being escorted away by campus security, but he claims that the gesture he made with his hand, involved flicking his thumb at his chin, which he argued is an Italian New Jersey expression meaning, \"I'm finished\" or \"I'm out of here\".\n\nThe students began circulating an email with their version of the events to the local student body. The student newspaper, the \"DePaulia\", later published a story about the students' version of the event. Klocek wrote a response to the story, which was also printed in the paper. Both the Students for Justice in Palestine and United Muslims Moving Ahead wrote complaint letters to the university administration. The university suspended Klocek with pay. Following negotiations, the university offered Klocek the return of his teaching position, if he apologized to the students and agreed to observers intermittently sitting in his classes. Klocek declined the offer and hired an attorney, suing the university for defamation of character and breach of contract.\n\nKlocek, along with a number of conservative bloggers, claimed that at heart the issue was one of freedom of speech and academic freedom. They claim that DePaul has ended Klocek's career as a result of his pro-Israeli views. DePaul officials deny that description, arguing that it was Klocek's \"belligerent and menacing\" behavior towards the students which led to his suspension. University officials were quoted as saying \"we emphatically reject that this is at all a matter of academic freedom. For DePaul it was about his conduct not his content\".\n\nKlocek's claims for breach of contract against DePaul were dismissed with prejudice on January 30, 2006. His claims for defamation of character were dismissed in another hearing later in 2006 by the First District Court of Illinois. In 2010, the Illinois Supreme Court refused Klocek's request for an appeal, ending the lawsuit.\n\nNorman Finkelstein's Tenure Controversy at DePaul\n"}
{"id": "1885109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885109", "title": "List of prime ministers of Somalia", "text": "List of prime ministers of Somalia\n\nThis is a list of Prime Ministers of Somalia. The Prime Minister of Somalia () is the head of government of Somalia. There have been 18 official prime ministers since the office was created in 1956. The first Prime Minister was Abdullahi Issa, who served prior to independence in the Trust Territory of Somaliland. The incumbent Prime Minister of the Federal Republic of Somalia is Hassan Ali Khayre.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1885110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885110", "title": "Virtua Fighter 2", "text": "Virtua Fighter 2\n\n\"Virtua Fighter 2\" was known for its breakthrough graphics. It used Sega's Model 2 arcade hardware to run the game at 60 frames per second at a high resolution with no slowdown (by comparison, the original \"Virtua Fighter\" ran at 30 frames per second). It introduced the use of texture-mapped 3D characters, and motion capture animation technology. The Saturn version was also well-received for its graphics and gameplay. It became a huge hit in Japan and sold relatively well in other markets, notably the UK.\n\nThe arena size could be adjusted up to a very small platform or all the way to 82 meters (269 feet). This is the only game in the series—other than \"Virtua Fighter Remix\"—that could have such size adjustments. The physical energy meter could also be adjusted to infinity, giving the player the advantage when beating opponents or practicing moves against the computer player. Adjusting the arena to a smaller size and giving the characters infinite health could lead to mock sumo matches, wherein victory is achieved by knocking the other player's character out of the ring.\n\n\"Virtua Fighter 2\" is a 3D 1v1 fighting game, similar in concept to other games of the series. Players select a character, and attempt to use that character to overcome a series of opponents. This can be done by simply knocking the other character out (by dealing enough damage), or by knocking them out of the square \"ring\" in which the fights take place. Each fight takes place over a number of rounds; typically 3 rounds in a best-of-3 approach (though this can be varied). The game is played with an eight-way stick to control character movement, and three buttons (guard, punch and kick), which are used in various motions to pull off a character's signature attacks.\n\nEach character has their own fighting style, loosely based on various real-world fighting methods, such as wrestling or eastern styles. Characters each have many unique moves; however, like in the original Virtua Fighter, many of the characters share a number of moves with another character (for instance, Lau Chan and Pai Chan each practice similar forms of Kung Fu). In addition, the entire roster of characters shares certain moves and functions; for instance, every character has a basic throw that can be executed by pressing the guard and punch buttons simultaneously. The number and variety of attacks possessed by each character has also been expanded, including the addition of counter-attacks and the ability to prevent throws (with very quick reactions required on part of the player).\n\nAll nine characters from the original \"Virtua Fighter\" are once again playable in \"Virtua Fighter 2\". The sequel also adds two new characters: Shun Di, an old drunken fist master from China, and Lion Rafale, the French son of a rich businessman who uses praying mantis style kung fu. Additionally, Shun and Lion possess the unique ability to perform \"axis strikes\" in which they would move around the attacks of other characters, accentuating the game's 3D nature.\n\nVirtua Fighter 2 presents no narrative in-game; there is no story-based intro sequence, no narrative character endings and very little text to supply much of a plot. However, the game was given a story in its supporting material, such as the manual for the Sega Saturn version.\n\nVirtua Fighter 2 hinges around a fighting tournament, where the greatest fighters in the world seek to compete for fame and glory. However, the tournament is organised by the sinister \"J6\" syndicate, who intend to use the information gathered to perfect their fighting cyborg \"Dural\" (the game's boss, who uses a move-set made up of other character's moves).\n\nThe game took Sega AM2 roughly 12 months to develop. The developers designed four new characters, only two of which, Lion and Shun, made it into the final game.\n\nIn a 1995 interview, head developer Yu Suzuki said \"Virtua Fighter 2\" was his favorite of all the games he had made, elaborating that he was particularly pleased with the way the polygonal graphics \"added a sense of reality\" to the characters' motions, and the addition of counterattacks.\n\nAt the beginning of 1995, Sega AM2's Sega Saturn division was split into three sub-departments, each one charged with porting a different arcade game to the Saturn: \"Virtua Fighter 2\", \"Virtua Cop\", and \"Daytona USA\". Due to unexpectedly slow progress in the \"Daytona USA\" port, a number of members of the \"Virtua Fighter 2\" team were reassigned to \"Daytona USA\". In March, AM2 Research completed the Sega Graphics Library, a Saturn operating system which made it feasible to create a near-arcade perfect port of \"Virtua Fighter 2\" for the Saturn.\n\nAfter completing the \"Daytona USA\" port in April, the team took a short holiday before beginning work on the \"Virtua Fighter 2\" conversion in earnest. In June, AM2 gave the first public demonstration of Saturn \"Virtua Fighter 2\" at the Tokyo Toy Show. To increase confidence in the accuracy of the port, they displayed non-playable demos of the characters Lion, Shun, Pai, and Lau running on the Saturn hardware at 60 frames per second - the same speed as the arcade version.\n\nHowever, AM2 continued to face problems in creating an accurate port for the Saturn. Due to the high number of moves in \"Virtua Fighter 2\", months had to be spent on developing compression techniques in order to fit all of the game's moves onto a single CD. Also, in order to maintain the 60 frames per second, the Saturn version could not use nearly as many polygons as the arcade version. To make this difference less apparent, the programming team used texture mapping on the characters, taking advantage of the fact that the Saturn could map 16 different colors to each polygon, whereas the Model Two arcade hardware could map only 1. In addition, the polygon background objects of the arcade version were replaced with parallax scrolling playfields with selective scaling. The AM2 team also used data from \"Virtua Fighter Remix\" as a reference for some elements. In an interview during development, Keiji Okayasu discussed the team's struggles with getting the Saturn version to run at 60 frames per second: \n\nBy the end of September, hit detection had been enabled, and the now fully playable conversion was displayed at the JAMMA show. Taking into account audience reactions at the JAMMA show, the team spent the next two months on final adjustments, play-testing, and the addition of Saturn-specific options. Development on the port was completed in November 1995.\n\n\"Virtua Fighter 2.1\" is a revised version featuring re-tweaked gameplay, slightly enhanced graphics and the ability to play as Dural. Though it was never released outside Japan, it is possible to switch to the 2.1 game mechanics in the Saturn and PC ports; however, none of the other features are updated. This version was also released in the Sega Ages 2500 series.\n\nThe Saturn port was scheduled for a December 1995 release in Europe, in time for the crucial Christmas shopping season, but it did not appear until the end of the following January.\n\nIn Japan, a Virtua Fighter 2 \"CG Portrait Series\" of discs were released for the Saturn. Each of the 11 discs (one for each playable character) contains a slideshow of high-resolution CG stills of the character engaged in non-fighting activities such as playing pool or eating ice cream, backed by a Japanese pop song, as well as a karaoke mode.\n\nThe Genesis/Mega Drive version is a 2-D remake which includes moves from the original \"Virtua Fighter\".\n\nAccording to Sega, over 2,500 \"Virtua Fighter 2\" stand-up units were sold to arcades in its first 18 months on the market.\n\nSega reported pre-orders of 1.5 million units for the Saturn version of \"Virtua Fighter 2\" in Japan, which is nearly as many of the number of Saturns that had been sold in Japan at that point. At the time of its release, \"Virtua Fighter 2\" was the top-selling game for the Saturn, and remains the highest selling Saturn game in Japan with 1.7 million copies. In the US, the game was bundled with various Saturn consoles for a while alongside \"Daytona USA\" and \"Virtua Cop\", which helped boost the Saturn's sales.\n\n\"Virtua Fighter 2\" was critically acclaimed upon release. \"Next Generation\" gave the game a perfect 5/5 stars, calling it \"the ultimate arcade translation\" and \"the best fighting game ever.\" The magazine cited its \"accurate representation of 10 very distinct and realistic fighting styles\", \"remarkable AI\", and \"a general attention to detail that sets a new mark for quality game design.\" \"Sega Saturn Magazine\" gave the Saturn version a 98%, citing the smooth frame rate, the realistically varied reactions to blows, the huge variety of moves, and the addition of features such as Team Battle Mode. Similarly praising the variety of moves and the accuracy of the port, Game Revolution gave the Saturn version an A and concluded that \"\"Virtua Fighter 2\" for the Saturn looks better and smoother than any other polygonal fighting game for the next generation systems. This just might be the best home console fighting game ever.\" \"GamePro\"s Scary Larry called it \"the game to own if you have a Saturn\", citing the authentic fighting styles and moves, the new modes, the realistic animations with strong attention to detail, and the easy to master controls. He gave it a perfect score in all four categories (graphics, sound, control, and FunFactor).\n\nThe four reviewers of \"Electronic Gaming Monthly\" felt the port was not as arcade perfect as it could have been, but highly praised the wealth of options and modes, with two of their reviewers declaring it by far the best fighting game on the Saturn thus far. \"Game Informer\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s Andy, Reiner and Paul praised \"Virtua Fighter 2\" for its depth and variety, but criticized inferior background details in the Saturn port, while Paul also felt that the original \"Virtua Fighter\" required more strategy. \"Maximum\" described the port as \"remarkably similar to its coin-op parent - a game that's running on hardware that's 20 times more expensive than the Sega Saturn.\" They particularly praised the high-resolution graphics, smooth frame rate, \"breathtaking\" variety of moves, and the numerous Saturn-exclusive modes and options. With their one criticism being the very vulnerable opponent AI, they gave it their \"Maximum Game of the Month\" award.\n\nGameSpot gave the PC version a 8.1/10. Praising the game's realism, depth, and opponent AI, and the PC version's inclusion of online multiplayer, they deemed it \"unquestionably the best fighting game on the PC, and certainly one of the finest fighting games of all time\", adding that the PC version \"rivals even the excellent Sega Saturn console port.\" The PlayStation 2 port of the game was criticized for failing to be faithful to the original arcade version.\n\nRetrospective feedback on the Saturn version has continued to gather praise. GamesRadar ranked it the third-best Sega Saturn game, stating that \"with \"Sonic\" sitting much of this generation out, is there a franchise more synonymous with the Saturn than \"Virtua Fighter\"?\" 1UP described the Saturn port as featuring \"crisp, fast visuals and deeply nuanced game mechanics.\" They also claimed the game had aged well, unlike other fighters released around the time, such as the original \"Tekken\". IGN also ranked it as the second-best Sega Saturn game, saying that the game \"stands head and shoulders above all 32-bit fighters. \"All of them\".\"\n\n\"Virtua Fighter 2\" was ranked as the 19th-best arcade game of the 1990s by \"Complex\". \"GamePro\" awarded it Best Saturn Game of 1995. It has also been listed as one of the best games of all time by \n\"Next Generation\" in 1996 and 1999, \nIGN in 2003, \"Famitsu\" in 2006, \n\"Stuff\" in 2008, and \"Electronic Gaming Monthly\" in 1997, 2001, and 2006.\n\n"}
{"id": "1885114", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885114", "title": "Pacific Trim", "text": "Pacific Trim\n\nPacific Trim is an EP released by indie rock group Pavement on January 23, 1996 (see 1996 in music). It was recorded on short notice to coincide with the band's Australian tour. The recording features only Stephen Malkmus, Bob Nastanovich and Steve West — the session had actually been booked for a Silver Jews recording, but David Berman became unavailable at the last minute and the group couldn't afford to waste the studio time. The CD release contained three tracks with a fourth song, \"I Love Perth\", included only on the vinyl edition, which references the city of Perth in Western Australia. Allmusic concludes that the EP \"isn't much more than a throwaway, but it is an extremely enjoyable one\".\n\nAlthough the EP is out of print, all four songs are available on the two-CD set \"\".\n"}
{"id": "1885127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885127", "title": "Misión Santa María de los Ángeles", "text": "Misión Santa María de los Ángeles\n\nMission Santa María de los Ángeles was the last of the missions established by the Jesuits in Baja California, Mexico, in 1767. The site chosen was the Cochimí settlement of Cabujakaamung (\"arroyo of crags\"), west of Bahía San Luis Gonzaga near the Gulf of California coast, about 22 kilometers east of Rancho Santa Inés, and south of Cataviña.\n\nThe mission site was visited by the Jesuit missionary-explorers Ferdinand Konščak and Wenceslaus Linck. Victoriano Arnés founded the mission to replace the unsatisfactory site of Calamajué only months before the Jesuits were expelled from Baja California. After the establishment of Mission San Fernando Velicatá, Santa María was reduced to the status of a \"visita\", or subordinate mission station. The \"visita\" was abandoned in 1818. Ruined structural walls and rock corrals survive at the site.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1885128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885128", "title": "Virtua Fighter Kids", "text": "Virtua Fighter Kids\n\nVirtua Fighter Kids is an installment in the Sega AM2 \"Virtua Fighter\" fighting game series. A super deformed version of \"Virtua Fighter 2\", it was released in the arcade and on the Sega Saturn in 1996. Unlike \"Virtua Fighter 2\", it was developed on the ST-V board.\n\nAll the characters have big heads, and the music is at a faster pace. The gameplay itself is slightly tweaked from \"Virtua Fighter 2\". The Saturn version includes some new FMVs and programmable button sequences to allow players to test and use pre-made combos. Despite being children, some of the fighters retain the adult characteristics of their \"Virtua Fighter 2\" counterparts, such as facial hair, muscles, and breasts.\n\nOne of the variations of the boss character, Dural, features her with a fishbowl for a head, complete with a fish swimming inside.\n\nMerchandise for the game in Japan included a line of stuffed toys which sold very well even before development on the game was finished.\n\nIn Japan, Virtua Fighter Kids was released on the Saturn as a promotional item in co-operation with drink brands \"Java Tea\" and \"Energen\" under the title \"Virtua Fighter Kids: Java Tea Original Edition\". It was later released commercially without any mention of \"Java Tea\" on the cover. All Java Tea product placement was removed from the western versions of the game, but is present in all Japanese versions (arcade, regular and Java Edition).\n\nAlthough no official sequels to \"Virtua Fighter Kids\" were ever made (other than the \"VF Kids\" versions of the \"CG Portrait Series\" in Japan called the \"Game Gear Portrait Series\"), the child versions of Akira Yuki and Sarah Bryant reappear as playable characters in \"Fighters Megamix\", and some of their fellow playable characters appear in the game's ending movie as well. The Kid styles of Akira Yuki and Sarah Bryant were made into figures in the Sega Dreamcast game \"Shenmue\".\n\n\"Virtua Fighter Kids\" divided reviewers to an extent. \"GameSpot\", Scary Larry of \"GamePro\", and Dan Hsu, Crispin Boyer, and Sushi-X of \"Electronic Gaming Monthly\" said that while \"Virtua Fighter Kids\" would have made an amusing bonus mode in \"Virtua Fighter 2\", it was not worthwhile as a full-price standalone release. On the other side, \"Next Generation\", Rich Leadbetter of \"Sega Saturn Magazine\", and Shawn Smith of \"Electronic Gaming Monthly\" argued that features such as the funny cinemas, the new facial expressions on the characters, and the new kid-themed scenery make the game more than a money-making gimmick, though they also said that it is not as good as the original version of \"Virtua Fighter 2\". Most reviewers criticized the short reach of the kid characters.\n"}
{"id": "1885129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885129", "title": "Víctor Gaviria", "text": "Víctor Gaviria\n\nVíctor Manuel Gaviria González (born January 19, 1955, in Liborina, Antioquia, Colombia) is a film director, writer, and poet. His three feature-length films are highly acclaimed and have won many international awards. He is the first Colombian filmmaker to be featured at the Cannes Film Festival in France. He is often recognized as the most influential and well-known filmmaker to come out of Colombia, often being considered an exception to Colombian Cinema.\n\nBorn in the town of Liborina and raised in Medellin, Colombia, he grew up during the beginning of the Colombian conflict; an ongoing civil war between the Colombian government and extremist groups, including drug cartels, which led to immense violence and unrest throughout Medellin. He attended the University of Antioquia in Colombia and received a degree in psychology. While there, Gaviria gained an interest in poetry and wrote a total of seven poetry books that won several awards.\n\n"}
{"id": "1885132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885132", "title": "Nathan George Horwitt", "text": "Nathan George Horwitt\n\nNathan George Horwitt (c. 1898 – June 13, 1990) was an American industrial designer. He is most renowned for his \"Museum\" watch, which featured a black dial with a single silver circle situated at 12 o'clock. The Museum watch is part of the permanent collection of New York's Museum of Modern Art. The watch was intended to suggest a sundial, the most ancient form of keeping time.\n\nHorwitt was born c. 1898 in Russia and emigrated to the United States as a child, where he attended the City College of New York and New York University. He later attended the Art Students League of New York and served in the United States Army during World War I.\n\nHe was hired as an advertising copywriter by the pharmaceutical firm E. R. Squibb & Company (now part of Bristol-Myers Squibb). Horwitt was eventually promoted to become the firm's director of advertising.\n\nThe firm of Design Engineers in Manhattan was established by Horwitt in the late 1920s, a company that lasted for three years. After that he developed patents that could be sold to other manufacturers. In the 1960s and 1970s, Horwitt ran an organic farm in Berkshire County, Massachusetts.\n\nAmong Horwitt's designs were the Beta chair, featured in the collection of the Brooklyn Museum. He held a total of 18 patents in the United States, including a frameless picture frame that he invented, which was intended to focus attention on the picture.\n\nHis best known design was for the \"Museum Watch\", which features a black dial without any numbers, symbols or lines to mark hours and minutes. The only mark on the watch was a single gold dot at the twelve o'clock position, intended to be evocative of a sun dial. The original Museum Watch, designed in 1947, manufactured by Vacheron & Constantin-Le Coultre Watches, Inc., Switzerland, was added to the permanent collection of the Museum of Modern Art in 1960.\n\nMovado started producing an unauthorized version starting in 1948, copying Horwitt's design. Movado finally settled with Horwitt in 1975 with a payment of $29,000. Following Horwitt's death, Movado started heavy promotion of Horwitt and the design of the Museum Watch.\n\nA wall clock of this design was created in the late 1960s for the Howard Miller Clock Company.\n\nHorwitt supported the creation of the State of Israel, serving as a member of the board of the American League for a Free Palestine. For his efforts towards the establishment of the Jewish state, he was awarded the Jabotinsky Medal by Prime Minister of Israel Menachem Begin in 1980.\nHorwitt was rumored to have made his farm in Stockbridge, Massachusetts available for training exercises for the Jewish underground force, the Irgun, between 1945 and 1948.\n\nHorwitt died at age 92 on June 13, 1990 of natural causes at his home in Stockbridge, Massachusetts.\n"}
{"id": "1885134", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885134", "title": "Uganda national cricket team", "text": "Uganda national cricket team\n\nThe Uganda national cricket team, nicknamed the Cricket Cranes, represents the Republic of Uganda in international cricket. The team is organised by the Uganda Cricket Association, which has been an associate member of the International Cricket Council (ICC) since 1998.\n\nUganda first fielded an international team as early as 1914, against the East Africa Protectorate, but only began competing regularly from the early 1950s, playing frequent series against regional rivals Kenya and Tanzania (then Tanganyika). From 1966, Uganda contributed players to a combined East African team, which was reconstituted as East and Central Africa in 1989.\n\nThe country's first ICC tournament played in its own right was the 2001 ICC Trophy in Canada. Uganda played in the next three editions of the tournament, renamed the ICC World Cup Qualifier, but did not come close to qualifying for the Cricket World Cup. In the World Cricket League (WCL), Uganda reached ICC World Cricket League Division Two on three occasions, but was relegated to Division Three each time. The team has twice participated in the ICC World Twenty20 Qualifier, in 2012 and 2013, but finished in the bottom four teams on both occasions.\n\nIn April 2018, the ICC decided to grant full Twenty20 International (T20I) status to all its members. Therefore, all Twenty20 cricket matches played between Uganda and other ICC members after 1 January 2019 will be a full T20I. After April 2019, Uganda will play in the 2019–21 ICC Cricket World Cup Challenge League.\n\nUganda combined with their regional rivals Kenya and Tanzania to form the East Africa team. The first known match for this team was against a South African \"Non-Europeans\" team captained by Basil D'Oliveira in September 1958 in Nairobi, with the visitors winning by seven wickets. East Africa became an associate member of the ICC in 1966\n\nEast Africa toured England in 1972 and the Marylebone Cricket Club played a first-class match against East Africa in January 1974, winning by 237 runs. The following year, East Africa played in the 1975 Cricket World Cup in England. After various warm-up games, including a 3 wicket win against Glamorgan, they played New Zealand, India and England in the World Cup itself, losing all three matches. The World Cup was followed by a first-class match against Sri Lanka at the County Ground, Taunton, which the Sri Lankans won by 115 runs. East Africa played in the ICC Trophies of 1979, 1982 and 1986, without qualifying for the World Cup from any of them.\n\nUganda continued playing their regular matches against Kenya and Tanzania, despite Kenya leaving the East Africa combination in and the triangular tournament became a quadrangular tournament in 1966 when Zambia joined in. From then until the tournament's end in 1980, Uganda won the tournament just once.\n\nThe East Africa team left the ICC in 1989 and was replaced by the East and Central Africa team the same year. This new team was a combination of Malawi, Tanzania, Uganda and Zambia, and they took part in the ICC Trophy for the first time in 1990, also taking part in 1994, 1997 and 2001.\n\nUganda left the East and Central Africa combination and became an associate member of the ICC in their own right in 1998. Their first international tournament was the 2001 ICC Trophy. After winning all five of their first round games, they lost a play-off match against the United Arab Emirates (UAE) for the right to enter the second stage of the tournament. The following year, they finished third in their group in the Africa Cup.\n\nIn 2004, Uganda played their first first-class matches in the ICC Intercontinental Cup against Kenya and Namibia, winning against Namibia. In August that year, they finished second to Namibia in the Africa Cricket Association Championships in Zambia. This qualified them for the following years ICC Trophy, in which they finished in twelfth and last place after losing to Papua New Guinea in their final play-off match. Earlier in the year, they again played against Namibia and Kenya in the 2005 ICC Intercontinental Cup, losing both games.\n\nIn January 2007, Uganda faced Bermuda and Canada as those two teams prepared for Division One of the World Cricket League in Nairobi. This also served as preparation for Uganda's visit to Darwin, Australia, for Division Three of the same tournament. Uganda won their Group B games against the Cayman Islands, Hong Kong, and Tanzania before beating Papua New Guinea in the semi-final and Argentina in the tournament final. Winning Division Three earned Uganda a spot in the ICC's High Performance Program, and promotion to Division Two.\n\nUganda took part in a four-team Twenty20 tournament before the 2007 Twenty20 World Cup, playing games against Pakistan, Kenya, and Bangladesh in Nairobi. As expected, they lost against Pakistan and Bangladesh before upsetting African rivals Kenya with a two-wicket win.\n\nTheir next matches were two one-day games against Bermuda, also in Nairobi, in October 2007. They surprised their more experienced rivals, going down by just seven runs after Nandikishore Patel scored a half-century, before winning the second match by 43 runs with Joel Olwenyi scoring a half-century of his own.\n\nIn November 2007, Uganda travelled to Windhoek, Namibia to participate in the WCL Division Two tournament. Uganda lost their group matches against; Denmark, Namibia, Oman, and the UAE but did defeat Argentina in their group match and also their positional playoff to finish fifth. Uganda's bottom two finish saw them relegated to Division Three.\n\nIn January 2009, Uganda won four of their five group matches and edged Papua New Guinea on run rate, to finish second in the ICC Division 3 competition in Buenos Aires, Argentina and earn the final place at the 2009 ICC World Cup Qualifier.\n\nIn April 2009, Uganda travelled to South Africa for the 2009 ICC World Cup Qualifier. Despite a first up win against Namibia, Uganda lost their remaining four Group A matches and failed to make the Super Eight stage, thus ending their chance to qualify for the 2011 Cricket World Cup. Uganda finished 10th overall after beating Denmark but losing to Bermuda in positional playoff matches, and thus was relegated to 2013 ICC World Cricket League Division Three.\n\nIn August 2018, Uganda replaced Ghana in the 2018 Africa T20 Cup, after Ghana had declined Cricket South Africa's invite to compete in the tournament. Uganda played in the 2019 T20 World Cup Qualifier Africa but got to the fourth position of the table.\n\nThe Uganda Cricket Association (UCA) is responsible for all matches played in Uganda and by the Uganda cricket team. It was admitted to the International Cricket Council in 1998 as an associate member. Its current headquarters are in Kampala, Uganda.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nInternational Match Summary — Uganda\n\n\nMost T20I runs for Uganda\n\nMost T20I wickets for Uganda\n\nT20I record versus other nations\n\n\"Records complete to T20I #1042. Last updated 15 February 2020.\"\n\nThis is a list of all the players with the forms of cricket in which they recently played.\n\n"}
{"id": "1885136", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885136", "title": "Clan Ramsay", "text": "Clan Ramsay\n\nClan Ramsay is a Lowland Scottish clan.\n\nIn the eleventh century a ram in the sea is believed to have been an emblem on the seal of an abbey in Huntingdon. In 1124, David of Scotland, Earl of Huntingdon was accompanied by many young Norman noblemen. Amongst these nobles may have been Symon de Ramesie. Symon was granted lands in Midlothian from David and also witnessed an important charter to the monks of Holyrood Abbey in 1140.\n\nBy the 13th century there were five major branches of the Clan Ramsay: the Ramsays of Dalhousie, the Ramsays of Auchterhouse, the Ramsays of Banff, the Ramsay of Forfar and the Ramsays of Clatto. In 1255, during the minority of Alexander III of Scotland, William de Ramsay of Dalhousie was a member of the king's council.\n\nDuring the Wars of Scottish Independence, William Ramsay appears on the Ragman Rolls of 1296, swearing fealty to Edward I of England. However Ramsay later declared for Robert the Bruce and was one of the signatories on the Declaration of Arbroath. Ramsay had two sons, William and Alexander. The latter was a renowned knight and in 1342 was made sheriff of Teviotdale. However this office was claimed by the Douglases who became jealous and William Douglas, Lord of Liddesdale captured Alexander Ramsay with a strong force of men, imprisoning him in Hermitage Castle, where he was starved to death. Alexander's brother, William Ramsay, was captured by the English at the Battle of Neville's Cross but was not killed by them as he lived to tell the tale.\n\nIn 1400 another Sir Alexander Ramsay held out in Dalhousie Castle against a siege by the English, who were forced to retreat due to Ramsay's resolute resistance.\n\nIn 1513 during the Anglo-Scottish Wars, Sir Alexander's descendant, another Alexander Ramsay, was killed at the Battle of Flodden. Dalhousie then passed to his son, Nicolas, who was a staunch supporter of Mary, Queen of Scots. After Mary was defeated the Ramsays acknowledged her son as James VI of Scotland and the Ramsays were later rewarded for saving that monarch's life.\n\nOne of Nicolas's grandsons was John Ramsay who in 1600 killed both the Ruthven, Earl of Gowrie and his brother who were allegedly attempting to kidnap the king. This became known as the Gowrie Conspiracy. For saving the king, John Ramsay was created Earl of Holderness.\n\nIn 1618, the Earl of Holderness's brother, George Ramsay, was created Lord Ramsay. His eldest son, William Ramsay, opposed the religious politics of Charles I. During the Civil War, William raised a regiment of cavalry and fought at the Battle of Marston Moor. He was also part of Sir David Leslie's force at the Battle of Philiphaugh where the Marquis of Montrose was defeated. Ramsay had been created Earl of Dalhousie in 1633.\n\nIn 1666 Sir Gilbert Ramsay of Bamff, descended from Neis de Ramsay, physician to Alexander II of Scotland around 1232, was created a Baronet of Nova Scotia.\n\nThe Ramsays served in all the great campaigns of the 18th and 19th centuries on the continent, in Canada, and in India. George Ramsay, 9th Earl of Dalhousie was Governor General of British North America from 1819 to 1828. He was also commander-in-chief of India from 1829 to 1832. His son was James Broun-Ramsay, 1st Marquess of Dalhousie who also served as Governor General of India, from 1847 to 1856. In 1849 he was created Marquess of Dalhousie but this title died with him in 1860. However the older earldom passed to a cousin from whom the present Earl descends.\n\nOther branches of the family have also produced persons of distinction and rank. Alexander Ramsay, the younger son of the Arthur George Maule Ramsay, 14th Earl of Dalhousie married Princess Patricia of Connaught who was a granddaughter of Queen Victoria. Their son was Alexander Ramsay of Mar and his wife, the Lady Saltoun, chief of the Clan Fraser, are members of the royal family, by the Queen's personal wish.\n\nSir John Ramsay of Balmain was created Lord Bothwell in 1485. However he forfeited that title for treason in 1488 and it was later granted to the Clan Hepburn. The Ramsays of Balmain restored their fortunes by being created [baronet]s, first in 1625 and again in 1806.\n\nFighting was not the only talent of this family. Andrew Ramsay, better known as the Chevalier de Ramsay, left Scotland for France in 1708. His academic excellence was soon recognized, and he became mentor to the Prince de Turenne. The King of France appointed him a Knight of the Order of Saint Lazarus, and for a time he was tutor to both the Jacobite princes, Charles Edward Stuart and Henry Benedict Stuart. Allan Ramsay, the great 18th century poet, and his son, the distinguished portrait painter, were descended from the Clan Lairds of Cockpen, cadets of the chiefly house. Raymond Ramsay is a well-known 20th-century historian. Raymond was born in Manitoba and he is author of some books and articles about great Norman explorers of America. Raymond Ramsay wrote about Vinland and Norumbega etc.\nIn 1972, Dalhousie Castle was converted to a hotel, and the clan seat became Brechin Castle in Angus.\n\n\nThe current chief of Clan Ramsay is James Ramsay, 17th Earl of Dalhousie.\n\nClan members may show their allegiance to their clan by wearing a crest badge and clan badge. Crest badges usually contain the chief's heraldic crest and motto which are encircled by a strap and buckle. The crest and motto within the badge are the heraldic property of the clan chief alone. By wearing such crest badges, clan members show their allegiance to their chief. The crest badge suitable for a member of Clan Ramsay contains the crest: \"A unicorn's head couped Argent armed Or\", and the motto \"ORA ET LABORA\" (from Latin: \"pray and work\"). Another clan symbol is the clan badge, or plant badge. These badges consist merely of sprigs of a specific plant, sometimes worn behind the crest badge on a bonnet. The clan badge of Clan Ramsay is Blue Harebell.\n\nThe most popular of the tartans attributed to the surname \"Ramsay\" is derived from one titled \"Ramsey\" in the \"Vestiarium Scoticum\" published in 1842. Though the \"Vestiarium\" has been proven to be a Victorian era hoax many of today's clan tartans are derived from it. The \"Vestiarium\" provides both an illustrative plate, and a written description of the sett, however the plate and description contradict each other.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1885139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885139", "title": "List of species described by the Lewis and Clark Expedition", "text": "List of species described by the Lewis and Clark Expedition\n\nLewis and Clark expedition encountered 174 plants and 134 species and subspecies of animals new to science. Lewis lost the notes about the specimens but analyses and detailed scientific descriptions of the specimens were performed by others. Lewis hired Frederick Pursh in Rhode Island to review the plant collection and describe and publish the results, which Pursh did in 1828. Lewis described and published none of the plants he collected in the Western Americo. \n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1885148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885148", "title": "Dhani Jones", "text": "Dhani Jones\n\nDhani Makalani Jones (born February 22, 1978) is a former American football linebacker who played for eleven seasons in the National Football League. He played college football for the Michigan Wolverines, earning All-Big Ten honors for three straight seasons. He was selected by the New York Giants in the sixth round of the 2000 NFL Draft and played for the team for four seasons. Jones also played for the Philadelphia Eagles and the Cincinnati Bengals. In addition to his football career, Jones hosted the Travel Channel series \"Dhani Tackles the Globe\" and the VH1 show \"Ton of Cash\". Jones is also a host on the CNBC series \"Adventure Capitalists\".\n\nJones attended middle school at Cabin John Middle School in Potomac, Maryland, where he played basketball. As a senior at Winston Churchill High School in Potomac, Jones was an All-Met, All-Western Region, and an All-County pick, and also was ranked the fifth best linebacker prospect in the Atlantic Coast Region despite missing most of the regular season with a ruptured disc he injured working out for Penn State earlier in the summer. Jones was also a varsity wrestler in high school, as well as a member of his high school's track team.\n\nAt the University of Michigan, Jones was a three time All-Big Ten honoree. As a sophomore, Jones started nine games at linebacker and finished second on the team with 90 tackles and six sacks, playing alongside Heisman Trophy winner Charles Woodson on Michigan's 1997 national champion squad. As a junior in 1998, Jones started at linebacker and finished with 72 tackles. Jones moved to strong side linebacker as a senior in 1999, and finished second on the team with 81 tackles.\n\nJones is a member of Alpha Phi Alpha and is an initiate of the Epsilon chapter at the University of Michigan.\n\nJones was drafted by the New York Giants in the sixth round of the 2000 NFL Draft with the 177th overall pick. He played with the team until 2003.\n\nThe Philadelphia Eagles acquired Jones from the Giants as a free agent in 2004. During Jones stint with the Eagles, he started in Super Bowl XXXIX. On April 30, 2007 the Eagles released Jones.\n\nOn July 6, 2007, Jones signed with the New Orleans Saints, where he was thought to be able to push for a starting job. Jones, however, was released on September 1, 2007 during final roster cutdowns.\n\nOn September 19, 2007 Jones signed a one-year contract with the Bengals. In the 2008 offseason, Jones signed a 3-year contract to return to the Bengals. Following the 2010 season, Jones' contract expired and he was not issued a new contract, so he became a free agent.\n\nJones retired in October 2011.\n\nJones is the star of \"Dhani Tackles the Globe\", a series for the Travel Channel in which he learns how to play international sports that are unknown to most Americans. For example, in the first season he played rugby union for English club, Blackheath. The show ran for two seasons.\nJones is a host/investor on the series \"Adventure Capitalists\". This series first aired on August 22, 2016 on CNBC. Jones and other investors listen to pitches and try out products from new entrepreneurs. Jones and the other investors decide if they would like to invest in the entrepreneurs outdoor/adventure company. \n\nIn 2010, Jones opened the Bow Tie Cafe in the historic Mount Adams neighborhood of Cincinnati, which sells coffee, drinks, cafe sandwiches.\n\nJones is a partner of VMG Creative, a New York City creative agency, with clients such as Michael Kors, Capital One, Estee Lauder, P&G.\n\nJones founded a creative agency, Proclamation, based in Cincinnati, and is chairman of Qey Capital Partners, an investment fund, both based in Cincinnati.\n\nDhani Jones is the CEO of Petram Data, a Company that uses pre-trained AI Models to reduce marketing spend and improve customer retention \n\nIn addition to his prowess as a professional athlete, Jones has shown a variety of skills off the field. Jones founded a company that sells high-end bowties, and he also writes movie reviews and commentary for Page2 on ESPN.com.\n\nJones is also an avid bicyclist, using his fixed-gear bicycle to commute to practices and games throughout the year. He also participated in the cycling leg of the Durham Doughman Challenge on Travel Channel's \"Man v. Food\". The challenge was a team quadrathlon consisting of running, swimming, cycling and food eating.\n\nOn June 7, 2011, Jones' book, \"The Sportsman: Unexpected Lessons from an Around-the-World Sports Odyssey\", was released. The book talks about his experiences in football, travel, and life in general.\n\nJones is committed to several Cincinnati, OH charities and nonprofits. Among other positions, he serves on the boards of Breakthrough Cincinnati and the Cincinnati Art Museum. Jones founded a philanthropic organization, BowTie Cause, in 2010.\n\nPlaybook360 (2011-2016) -Host - Spike\n\n"}
{"id": "1885158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885158", "title": "7 (U2 EP)", "text": "7 (U2 EP)\n\n7 is an EP by the Irish rock band U2, released exclusively at Target Stores in the United States in 2002. It collects various B-sides from \"All That You Can't Leave Behind\"-era singles, which were previously unavailable in the US. The title refers to the number of tracks. Likewise, at the time of its release \"7\" was priced at almost seven US dollars. The title is also a homage to \"Three\", the group's first release.\n\n\"7\" was released at all 1,055 Target Stores in the US on 22 January 2002. At the stores, it originally sold for price of US$6.99.\n\n\"Always\" is an early version of \"Beautiful Day\". \"Big Girls Are Best\" was a leftover from the \"Pop\" sessions. This Influx mix of \"Elevation\" was used to open shows on the Elevation Tour. The single version of \"Walk On\", which was released on the single with the blue cover, was also featured in concerts, while a live version was released on \"\". In 2002 another mix of \"Walk On\" called the \"Hallelujah mix\" (for its coda of hallelujahs) was released on a promotional CD.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1885160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885160", "title": "Cakes and Ale", "text": "Cakes and Ale\n\nCakes and Ale, or, The Skeleton in the Cupboard (1930) is a novel by the British author W. Somerset Maugham. Maugham exposes the misguided social snobbery levelled at the character Rosie Driffield, whose frankness, honesty, and sexual freedom make her a target of conservative propriety. Her character is treated favourably by the book's narrator, Ashenden, who understands that she was a muse to the many artists who surrounded her, and who himself enjoyed her sexual favours.\n\nMaugham drew his title from the remark of Sir Toby Belch to Malvolio in William Shakespeare's \"Twelfth Night\": \"\"Dost thou think, because \"thou\" art virtuous, there shall be no more cakes and ale?\"\" Cakes and ale are also the emblems of the good life in the moral of the fable attributed to Aesop, \"The Town Mouse and the Country Mouse\": \"\"Better beans and bacon in peace than cakes and ale in fear.\"\"\n\nIn his introduction to a Modern Library edition, published in 1950, Maugham wrote, \"I am willing enough to agree with common opinion that \"Of Human Bondage\" is my best work ... But the book I like best is \"Cakes and Ale\" ... because in its pages lives for me again the woman with the lovely smile who was the model for Rosie Driffield.\"\n\nThe story is told by a first-person narrator and well-to-do author, William Ashenden, who, at the beginning of the novel is suddenly and unexpectedly contacted by Alroy Kear, a busybody literary figure in London who has been asked by Amy, the second Mrs Driffield, to write the biography of her deceased husband, Edward Driffield. Driffield, once scorned for his realist representation of late-Victorian working-class characters, had in his later years come to be lionised by scholars of English letters. The second Mrs Driffield, a nurse to the ailing Edward after his first wife left him, is known for her propriety, and her interest in augmenting and cementing her husband's literary reputation. Her only identity is that of caretaker of her husband in life and of his reputation in death. It is well-known, however, that Driffield wrote his best novels while he was married to his first wife and muse, Rosie.\n\nKear, who is trying to prove his own literary worth, jumps at the opportunity to ride the coat-tails of the great Edward Driffield by writing the biography. Knowing that Ashenden had a long acquaintanceship with the Driffields as a young man, Kear contacts him for inside information about Edward's past, including about his first wife, who has been oddly erased from the official narrative of Edward's genius.\n\nThe story relates Ashenden's recollections of his past associations with the Driffields, especially Rosie. Due to his intimate association with her he hesitates to reveal how much information he will divulge to Driffield's second wife and Kear, who ostensibly wants a \"complete\" picture of the famous author, but who routinely glosses over the untoward stories that might upset Driffield's surviving wife. Ashenden holds the key to the deep mystery of love, and the act of love, in the life of each character, as he recounts a history of creativity, infidelity and literary memory.\n\n\"Cakes and Ale\" was first published in serialised form in four issues of \"Harper's Bazaar\" (February, March, April, and June 1930). The first edition of the novel was published in September the same year by William Heinemann in London and the Garden City Publishing Company in Garden City, New York.\n\n\nTwo of the novel's principal characters, Alroy Kear and Edward Driffield, were widely interpreted by contemporaneous readers as thinly veiled and unflattering characterizations of, respectively, the novelists Hugh Walpole and Thomas Hardy (who had died two years previously). In response to a letter from Walpole inquiring about the association, Maugham denied it: \"I certainly never intended Alroy Kear to be a portrait of you. He is made up of a dozen people and the greater part of him is myself\". In an introduction written for the 1950 Modern Library edition of the book, however, Maugham admitted that Walpole was indeed the inspiration for Kear—but denied that Hardy inspired the Driffield character.\n\nIn 1931, a pseudonymous novel called \"Gin and Bitters\" by A. Riposte, was published in the United States and told the story of \"a novelist who writes novels about other novelists\", and furthered the speculation about the Walpole/Kear association. It was rumoured that the author was Hugh Walpole himself, after the novel appeared in England under the title \"Full Circle\". The book was quickly removed from sale by its English publisher, supposedly at the behest of Somerset Maugham. The true author was later discovered to be Elinor Mordaunt. \n\nIn \"The Fine Art of Literary Mayhem\", Myrick Land asserts that \"Cakes and Ale\" ruined the last 11 years of Walpole's life and destroyed his reputation as a writer.\n\nIn 1974, the BBC released a three episode mini-series \"Cakes and Ale\", starring Michael Hordern and Judy Cornwell. It was rebroadcast on Masterpiece Theatre in the US.\n"}
{"id": "1885162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885162", "title": "Bridget (Guilty Gear)", "text": "Bridget (Guilty Gear)\n\nBridget was created as \"a cute character\" by Daisuke Ishiwatari, who wanted to vary the games' cast. Due to the character's appearance, he was initially described as female by video game sources. When they became aware of his sex, reviewers included Bridget on lists of best androgynous and cross-dressing characters, as well as debated his sexual orientation. Bridget has become a popular character among gamers, and critics have described him as \"a memorable character\" in the series.\n\nIshiwatari created Bridget as \"a cute character\" and to vary the games' cast, since \"there were already other good looking and tough characters\". As many fighting games already had this type of character, and \"it would be too boring if the character was just cute\", Ishiwatari \"wanted something unconventional\"; he and his staff decided it \"would be interesting to make the character a guy.\"\n\nThe series' creator also said that Bridget was a difficult character to animate; he \"has double the frames of animation\" due to his yo-yo movements. He spent \"a very long, very frustrating time trying to get the animation to work\", rejecting many versions before studio staff made Bridget \"look natural\".\n\nBridget was introduced in the third installment of the series, \"Guilty Gear X2\" (2002), and appears to be a girl since he wears a nun's habit. However, according to his backstory Bridget is a boy, one of twin brothers named and raised by his parents as a girl in a British village. They do this to protect him, since the villagers believe that identical twins bring bad luck. As Bridget grows up, he is determined to prove he is not unlucky and becomes a bounty hunter who fights with a yo-yo and , his mechanical, oversized teddy bear. His journey begins when I-No gives him a fake bounty list. In \"Guilty Gear XX Accent Core Plus\" (2008), since Bridget feels he has proven his masculinity by defeating several opponents he decides to become an entertainer. Although he tries to recruit Venom for his talent at pool and I-No for her ability to play electric guitar, both refuse his suggestion. Without money, in one ending Bridget works as a waiter in Jam Kuradoberi's restaurant. In an alternate ending he returns to his birth village, finds that his twin brother has disappeared and begins searching for him.\n\nBridget is also a playable character in the spin-offs \"Guilty Gear Isuka\" (2004), \"Dust Strikers\" (2006), and \"Judgment\" (2006).\n\nIn a 2013 poll conducted by Arc System Works, Bridget was voted as the most popular character from the series. Eurogamer called Bridget as \"[o]ne of \"Guilty Gear\"s more memorable characters\", while Kotaku's Brian Ashcraft said \"[h]e's not only one of \"Guilty Gear\"s most memorable characters [...] but also one of gaming's\", calling him \"an iconic character\". UGO Networks named Bridget one of \"Craziest Fighting Game Characters\" as despite being a boy, he looks like \"just a hot chick in a nun's costume that fights with a yo-yo\". His nun's habit was featured on \"NowGamer\"s 2010 list of \"Gaming's Most Inappropriate Outfits Ever\". Likewise, Virgin Media and 1UP.com placed him among the \"worst-dressed games characters ever\"; the latter stated \"it's like gaming's version of \"The Crying Game\"—but with more crying.\"\n\nBridget was described as a woman in early reports, and has been the subject of discussion about his gender identity. IGN first described Bridget as a \"kooky cross-dressing yoyo-wielding nun character\", while GamesRadar called him \"a saucy Catholic nun with a penis\". GamesRadar placed Bridget second on its list of \"Top 7... 'That's a Dude!?'\", commenting that Bridget want to be manlier, \"but unfortunately, none of them include not dressing as a sex-starved lady of the cloth.\" UGO agreed; they ranked him the 21st-most-androgynous game character, saying \"[h]e doesn't do too much to combat the image, either, fighting with weapons like a yo-yo and an oversized teddy bear.\" He ranked fourth on ZoominGames' Top 5 \"Transsexual characters in games\" in spite of not being one), and UGO listed him among the \"Best Crossdressers\" in all media. Further, \"The Escapist\" noted that Bridget is the first transgender, cross-dressing character who is a protagonist, although such statements are erroneous, as Bridget is neither transsexual nor transgender.\n\nSince Bridget is a boy who was raised as a girl, his sexuality has been questioned. Although his sexual orientation is undisclosed, several websites have included the character in LGBT-related articles. On other hand, Destructoid featured an article \"to argue the heterosexuality of Bridget.\" Despite the controversy, GayGamer.net, JeuxvideoPC and Destructoid agree that Bridget is appreciated by fans; on the Internet, pictures of the character appear with captions such as \"Bridget made me gay\" and \"Everyone is gay for Bridget\". This was cited by GamesRadar's staff, which listed him among \"characters we'd go gay for\". When John McCain sponsored a bill which would require ISPs and possibly websites to alert the government about illegal images of minors—including cartoons—\"Wired\" published an article entitled \"McCain Not Gay For Bridget\".\n\nGamasutra's Zoran Iovanovici ascribed Bridget's popularity to the fact that he is \"ultra feminized\", adding that \"[i]t's no surprise that Bridget has become a fan favorite over the years.\" Stephen Kelley wrote on VG Chartz that Bridget \"appears to be a \"moe\" style cute anime character\", but \"[d]ressed in the provocative nun costume Bridget is suddenly a creepy sex object.\" Pride St. Clair posted on the \"Piki Geek\" blog that Bridget \"seemed to be playing towards several prevalent anime fetishes, including the innocent girl and the religious figure who is at once both desirable and chaste\", saying that despite seeming \"designed as a trap ... Bridget is a sort of touchstone, a basis for a productive discussion about the role gender and fetishism plays in fighting games and modern Japanese culture.\"\n"}
{"id": "1885172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885172", "title": "Klocek", "text": "Klocek\n\nKlocek is a surname, and may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1885201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885201", "title": "Titus Junius Brutus", "text": "Titus Junius Brutus\n\nTitus Junius Brutus (died c. 509 BC) was the elder son of Lucius Junius Brutus, who was one of Rome's first two consuls in 509 BC. His mother was Vitellia.\n\nAt the invitation of his uncles, called Vitellii, he and his younger brother Tiberius Junius Brutus joined the Tarquinian conspiracy. When the conspiracy was discovered, he and the other conspirators were executed by order of the consuls. Punishment was carried out by the lictors, and included being stripped naked, beaten with rods and then beheaded. Lucius Junius Brutus was admired for his strong stance in ordering the execution of his sons, although at times during the execution he showed his emotions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1885202", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885202", "title": "Dilleniaceae", "text": "Dilleniaceae\n\nDilleniaceae is a family of flowering plants with 11 genera and about 430 known species. Such a family has been universally recognized by taxonomists. It is known to gardeners for the genus \"Hibbertia\", which contains many commercially valuable garden species.\n\nThe family is found in the tropics and subtropics plus all of Australia. Most of the members in it are woody plants - lianas or trees such as \"Dillenia\" - but herbaceous species such as \"Pachynema\" are also present in Dilleniaceae. The leaves of the plants in the family are wide and well-developed, but in \"Pachynema\" and certain species of \"Hibbertia\" they are strongly modified. The flowers are mainly showy and colorful with visible reproductive components. Buzz pollination is common in the group. Fruits of some species, such as \"Dillenia indica\" (elephant apple), are edible.\n\nThe position of the family in the phylogenetic tree and its classification among the other eudicots is uncertain. Some studies suggested that Dilleniaceae may be sister to Rhabdodendraceae which is a clade that was thought to be sister to all the rest Caryophyllales. The caryophyllid \"Rhabdodendron\" and the members in the family with the questionable placement in fact share some morphological characteristics but it was found that Rhabdodendraceae is actually sister only to the core members of its order.\n\nAnother possible situation places Dilleniaceae as an ancient group, sister to the superrosidae clade (the family shares some common morphology with Vitales) but this is not absolutely proven.\n\nThe APG II system, of 2003 (unchanged from the APG system, of 1998), also recognizes this family, unplaced as to order, assigned to the clade core eudicots.\n\nAPG II debates either including it in order Caryophyllales or reinstating the order Dilleniales for just this one family, but decides to leave it unplaced.\n\nThe family is remarkable because of its variability of morphological characteristics that now are much steadier in other Angiosperm groups. Thus, Dilleniaceae may be an ancient clade that expresses some phylogenetic relation between the higher Eudicots and the rather more primitive groups.\nIt is estimated that the clade diverged around 115 million years ago in Mid Cretaceous but the crown group was formed much later - only 52 million years before the present.\n\n"}
{"id": "1885210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885210", "title": "Nepalese hip hop", "text": "Nepalese hip hop\n\nNepHop, is the Nepalese form of hip hop. Its major elements include alternative hip hop, avant-grade hip hop, breakbeat, free styling and DJing. Rap culture was introduced in Nepal through the electronic DJs mixing the classical Nepalese songs with the Western urban style in the early eighties. Later, it took the form of artists releasing songs with the commercial beats since the nineties.\n\nThe first Nepali rap song is considered to be \"Batti Balera\" by the comedian Ratan Subedi, released in 1995.\n\nIn 2000, Girish Khatiwada and Pranil Timilsina started the rap culture. In 2000 Rappaz Union (Sammy Samrat and Nirnaya Shrestha created the first Nepalese rap album in English. In 2002, GP (Girish Khatiwada and Pranil L Timalsena) released the album \"Back Again\". The song \"Ma Yesto Chhu Ma testo Chhu\" featuring DA69 was the first rap song to attract broad Nepalese audiences to rap music. Another song on the album is \"Timi Jaha Pani Jaanchhau\".\n\nIn 2003, Nurbu Sherpa released his debut album \"Nurbu Sherpa Representin' K.T.M.C.\" (\"K.T.M.C.\" meaning Kathmandu Metropolitan City). This was the first Nepalese hip hop album recorded in the United States, for which he was nominated for the Best Music Video Award. In 2004, The Unity {Aidray and DA69(Sudin Pokhrel)} brought out their first album \"Girish & The Unity presents X\" with Girish Khatiwada (Gorkhali G.) It included \"She's the Bomb\", the music video for which became a major success in the local charts.\nOther songs on this album were \"Malai Vote Deu\", a satire to politics, \"Da Drug Song\", and \"Anything\" feat. Abhaya Subba and the Steam Injuns.\n\nIn 2003, underground rapper Aroz, based in New York City, and DJ AJ, based in Toronto, spearheaded the first Nepalese underground hip hop movement through their now-defunct website nephop.org and thus gave birth to a new Nepalese music genre called Nephop. The movement soon gained worldwide popularity and \"Nephop\" accepted as a portmanteau of \"Nepalese hip hop\". The online portal gave a platform to showcase the talents for all the budding rappers spread all across the world among the Nepalese diaspora.\n\nIn 2004, Aroz released his first underground single, \"Chudaina\", produced by DJ AJ. In 2005, Nepsydaz, a rap group, had commercial success with their version of the same song. Aroz gained massive notoriety for his next single \"Katti Khep\". WAVE magazine declared him \"the most controversial\" rapper to experiment with dirty rap, a paradigm shift from the traditional conservative cultural norms. This single had great success in the underground circuit because of its extremely explicit content. Aroz quickly capitalize on his success by releasing his next single \"Killin' Terraces\", which the New Urban Music Blog considered one of the best Nepalese political rap songs.\n\nAroz received some mainstream exposure after being featured on Nurbu Sherpa's single \"Baby Gurl\", from Nurbu's second album, \"Save Nepal\". \"Baby Gurl\" was voted one of the top ten songs of 2008 in Nepal by Fursad.com. Nurbu also featured Aroz and other underground rappers in his next single, \"When I'm Around\", from his third album.\n\n"}
{"id": "1885219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885219", "title": "4th Panzer Division (Wehrmacht)", "text": "4th Panzer Division (Wehrmacht)\n\nThe 4th Panzer Division () was an armored division in the Army of German Wehrmacht.\n\nIn World War II, it participated in the 1939 invasion of Poland, the 1940 invasion of France, and the 1941 invasion of the Soviet Union. It remained on the Eastern Front, mainly under Army Group Centre, until it was trapped on the coast at Courland in the summer of 1944. It was evacuated by sea and returned to the main front in West Prussia in January 1945. There it surrendered to the Red Army at the end of the war.\n\nThe 4th Panzer Division was formed in Würzburg, Bavaria, on 10 November 1938 as the first of a second wave of new armoured divisions in Germany following the creation of the original three tank divisions in 1935. Alongside the 4th Panzer Division the 5th was formed at Oppeln, now Opole in Poland, five days later.\n\nWürzburg had previously been the garrison town for the 2nd Panzer Division which had moved its headquarters to Vienna after the \"Anschluss\" of Austria in March 1938.\nThe divisions insigna, with photographs of which were emblazoned on tank turrets, was derived from the Algiz, nordic runes.\n\nAt the beginning of the Invasion of Poland (1939), the division was one of the first to cross the border in the operational area of Army Group South. Equipped with roughly 341 tanks, including 183 Panzer I, 130 Panzer II, 12 Panzer IV and 16 PzBef. The division lacked some infantry and anti-tank units..After entering Polish territory, on 1 September, the division used civilians as human shields during the battle of Mokra. During that battle the division was fighting the Polish Volhynian Cavalry Brigade under Colonel Julian Filipowicz. A Polish aircraft was shot down on 3 September and its crew taken prisoner. One of its passengers was brutally interrogated, tortured (German soldiers cut off his nose, ears and tongue) and then executed by personnel of the 4th Division.\n\nAfter supporting 1st Panzer, the division took part in the break-through of the Polish lines near Kłobuck, the Poles withdrew. Three days later, the 4th Panzer Division continued its move towards Warsaw. It reached the Polish capital on 8 September and tried to take the city by surprise. At 17.00, the forces of the 4th Panzer Division supported by the 31st Infantry Division attempted an assault on Warsaw's western borough of Ochota. The assault was repulsed and the German forces suffered heavy casualties. The following day, the division was reinforced with artillery and the Leibstandarte Adolf Hitler motorised infantry regiment, and began another assault towards Ochota and Wola. Well-placed Polish anti-tank guns and barricades erected on main streets repulsed this assault. On several occasions, the lack of armament on the Polish side was made up for by ingenuity. One of the streets leading towards the city centre was covered with turpentine from a nearby factory. When German tanks approached, the liquid was set on fire, and the tanks were destroyed without a shot being fired. The German forces suffered heavy casualties and had to retreat. After the failed assault on Warsaw, 4th Panzer Division was withdrawn westward and took part in the Battle of the Bzura, where it supported a German counter-attack.\n\nOn 18 September, in the village of Śladów, units of the 4th Panzer Division shot or drowned 252 prisoners of war and 106 civilians in the Vistula.\nAfter that it was withdrawn to the Niederrhein.\n\nDuring the Battle of France in 1940, the division came under the command of Erich Hoepner's XVI Panzer Corps, part of von Kleist's Panzer Group in the 6th Army commanded by Walther von Reichenau. After a blitzkrieg assault through Liege and Charleroi, it reached the area of Bethune, where it fought against the British Expeditionary Force in what became known as the battle of Dunkirk. However, due to Adolf Hitler's orders, it did not manage to capture Dunkirk itself. In early June 1940, the division managed to cross a large part of France in several days. By the time that the cease fire was signed, it had reached Grenoble almost unopposed. After several months of occupation duty in France, in late November, the 4th Division was withdrawn to Würzburg, where it was reorganized and reinforced. The 36th Panzer Regiment was detached and assigned to the newly formed 14th Panzer Division, while the 103rd Artillery Regiment was reinforced with a third battalion.\n\nThe division was moved to East Prussia and then to the area of Brześć Litewski in occupied Poland, where it was assigned to the XXIV Panzer Corps under Geyr von Schweppenburg. On 22 June 1941, it took part in the opening stages of Operation Barbarossa, the German invasion of the Soviet Union. During the first day, the division managed to drive a wedge into the Soviet positions and reached Kobryń some 65 kilometres behind the lines. The division then spearheaded one of the pincer moves to surround and destroy a large Soviet force in the battle of Minsk, where the German army took approximately 300,000 prisoners. After the battle of Gomel it reached Kiev, where it fought against another pocket of resistance.\n\nIn September 1941, the division was attached to Army Group Centre, which was preparing to take part in the battle of Moscow. The assault started on 30 September 1941, the division captured Orel in early October but was ambushed on the road to Mtsensk by 1st Guards Rifle Corps on the 6th of that month. Attempts by the outclassed Panzers to maneuver round the Soviet flanks were defeated with heavy loss as the soviet T-34s savaged the underarmored Mark IV tanks, reducing much of the divisional armor to burned out, smoking wreckage by end of day. The advance resumed with growing loss and in late October Heinz Guderian concentrated most of the 2nd Panzer groups' remaining tanks into a single brigade under the 4th Panzer division, the spearhead of the XXIV Panzer Corps. By mid-November it was down to 50 tanks but still ground on reaching Tula, as the southern arm of a pincer which tried to surround the Soviet capital. The Germans formations were paralysed when the autumn rains set in, turning the only road to Tula into a stretch of mud. Bogged down German tanks were attacked by Soviet aircraft. With the onset of frost in early November, the Germans could use the roads again, but faced the problem of not being equipped for winter warfare. Warm clothing and white camouflage suits were lacking, and tanks and other vehicles were immobilised as temperatures dropped below freezing.\n\nOn 5 December, the division was withdrawn and ordered to defend a stretch of front near Moscow against a . In a series of retreats, the division lost almost all of its tanks. A month later it had only 25 machines still operational. It withdrew to the Orel area, where the thaw halted the Soviet counter-offensive and the unit could be partially reinforced. Throughout 1942 it fought in the battle of Orel, a series of almost World War I-like skirmishes, assaults and counter-assaults. It took part in the failed battle of Kursk, after which it withdrew to the area along the Desna River. After a series of Soviet advances, the front line was finally stabilized near Bobruysk, where the division spent the winter of 1943–1944.\n\nIn the spring of 1944, the division moved to the area of Kowel in occupied Poland, where it was to support Army Group South during the expected Soviet spring offensive. However, Operation Bagration, (started on 22 June 1944), was aimed at Army Group Centre and the division retreated with the rest of the German army. Assigned to the XXXIX Panzer Corps under Gen. Karl Decker, the division withdrew to the area of Warsaw, where the Soviet advance ran out of momentum at the end of July. The 4th Panzer Division took part in the Battle of Radzymin (also known as the Battle of Wołomin) and on 2 August 1944, alongside the 19th Panzer Division, threw the Soviet III Tank Corps back to Wolomin. The Soviet Tank Corps suffered heavy losses and their advance halted.\n\nThe division was then transported to northern Lithuania, where it was to support Army Group North. It was attached to the 3rd Panzer Army. The Soviet advance cut the German army group in two and the division was mostly dispersed. Some of its sub-units were cut off from the rest of German-held territory, along with the 16th and 18th Armies, in Livonia on the Courland Peninsula, where they supported the defense until the end of the war. Other units were attached to smaller, often improvised formations. They were destroyed by the Soviet offensive of April–May 1945.\n\nThe commanders of the division:\n\nThe organisation of the division:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1885232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885232", "title": "3rd Panzer Division (Wehrmacht)", "text": "3rd Panzer Division (Wehrmacht)\n\nThe 3rd Panzer Division () was an armoured division in the German Army, the Wehrmacht, during World War II.\n\nThe division was one of the original three tank divisions established by Germany in 1935. The division participated in the Invasions of Poland, Belgium, France and the Soviet Union. From 1941 to 1945 it continuously fought on the Eastern Front.\n\nThe 3rd Panzer Division was formed on 15 October 1935 from elements of the 1st and 3rd Cavalry Division as well as a variety of other Military and police units, and was headquartered in the German capital Berlin. It was one of three tank divisions created at the time, the other two being the 1st and 2nd Panzer Division. Germany had renounced the Treaty of Versailles earlier in the year which had forbidden the country, among other things, from having tank forces, a treaty Germany had violated almost from the start by secretly developing tanks and operating a covert tank school in the Soviet Union.\n\nMembers of the divisions tank regiment participated in the Spanish Civil War on the Nationalist side as part of the German Legion Condor. The division also took part in the annexation of Austria, the so-called \"Anschluss\".\n\nThe 3rd Panzer Division participated in the 1939 invasion of Poland, where it was the most numerically powerful Panzer Division, with 391 tanks. It was engaged in the northern sector, operating from Pommerania, and advancing via Toruń to Brest-Litovsk. In May 1940 it was part of the German forces invading Belgium, advancing via the Albert Canal to Brussels and into France. Like the other German tank divisions the 3rd lost one of its two tank regiments in late 1940 to allow for the creation of further tank divisions, and gained an Infantry regiment instead.\n\nThe Division was ordered to prepare for service in Libya, North Africa that same year to help support the Italian efforts there. The deployment was cancelled by Hitler however after Mussolini launched an invasion of Greece 28 October 1940 without prior warning to his German Ally. The Division was instead diverted to Operation Felix though the operation was never initiated.\n\nThe 3rd Panzer Division was part of Operation Barbarossa, the invasion of the Soviet Union, which began on 22 June 1941. Initially it was engaged in the central sector of the advance but was then redirected south to participate in the Battle of Kiev. From there it participated in the Battle of Moscow, advancing towards Tula. With the Soviet counterattacks in the winter of 1941–42 the division acted as a stand-by emergency force and, in March 1942, participated in the defense of Kharkov. The division participated in the Case Blue, the German attack in the southern sector of the Eastern Front in June 1942, in which the 3rd Panzer Division advanced towards the Caucasus. Initially successful the operation was ultimately a failure, with the division suffering heavy casualties in the process, especially in the fighting around Mozdok. It narrowly escaped encirclement on its retreat by crossing the frozen Sea of Azov near Rostov.\n\nThe 3rd Panzer Division took part in the Battle of Kursk, attacking west of Belgorod. Following the German failure the division was engaged in the defense and retreat that followed. It remained on the Eastern Front for the remainder of the Second World War, fighting in the Ukraine, Romania, Poland and Hungary. At the end of the war saw the division engaged in Styria where it evaded Soviet forces and managed to surrender to the US Army instead. The majority of the divisions soldiers were released from captivity by July 1945.\n\nThe commanders of the division:\n\nThe organisation of the division:\n\n"}
{"id": "1885234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885234", "title": "Coldfire", "text": "Coldfire\n\nColdfire may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1885235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885235", "title": "Algerian hip hop", "text": "Algerian hip hop\n\nAlgerian hip hop music, as a genre, includes the hip hop music of both native Algerians and Algerians abroad. Algerians living abroad have contributed much to this genre, especially in France, where they are also considered part of the French hip hop scene. Some of these Algerians have become prominent. Algeria also has a hip hop scene, which, while less well-known internationally, is among the most developed in Africa and the Arab world.\n\nAlgerian rap began in October 1988. On October 5 of that year thousands of schoolchildren and young adults rose up to fight against rising food prices and neglect of the education system. Some were killed by the Army. It was at this time that many current artists began writing their raps. Youcef of the group Intik began writing \"about the system, the government, because the more that you asked questions, the more you discovered... And as soon as you begin to reflect, you begin to have answers.\" Algerian rap speaks about the reality of day-to-day life torn by \"political injustice, terror, and war\", its goal being to give hope to the younger generation.\n\nThe Algerian crew MBS, founded in the late 1980s is considered the most popular Algerian hip hop group. Another group is Intik, which mixes different type of music and languages.\n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "1885240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885240", "title": "Corona radiata", "text": "Corona radiata\n\nIn neuroanatomy, the corona radiata is a white matter sheet that continues ventrally as the internal capsule and dorsally as the centrum semiovale. This sheet of both ascending and descending axons carries most of the neural traffic from and to the cerebral cortex. The corona radiata is associated with the corticopontine tract, the corticobulbar tract, and the corticospinal tract.\n\nProjection fibers are afferents carrying information to the cerebral cortex, and efferents carrying information away from it. The most prominent projection fibers are the corona radiata, which radiate out from the cortex and then come together in the brain stem. The projection fibers that make up the corona radiata also radiate out of the brain stem via the internal capsule. Cerebral white matter is commonly regarded today as an intricately organized system of fasciculi that facilitate the highest expression of cerebral activity. \nEvidence from subcortical small infarcts suggests that motor fibers are somatotopically arranged in the human corona radiata. Following subtotal brain damage, localization of the corticofugal projection in the corona radiata and internal capsule can assist in evaluating a patient's residual motor capacity and predicting their potential for functional restitution. Data suggests that the corona radiata and superior capsular lesions may correlate with more favorable levels of functional recovery. Lesions seated inferiorly are likely to correlate with poorer levels of recovery regarding upper limb movement. Findings also suggest that motor deficit severity is likely to increase as a lesion occupies progressively more posterior regions of the internal capsule. \nThe corona radiata may be affected by diseases affecting the cerebral white matter, including ischemic leukoencephalopathy, multiple sclerosis, and progressive leukoencephalopathy. These may have major effects on intellectual, social, and emotional functioning. \n\nIn normal pressure hydrocephalus, expansion of the lateral ventricles causes distortion of the fibers of the corona radiata. This contributes to the urinary incontinence seen with NPH.\n\n"}
{"id": "1885244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885244", "title": "List of Swiss cantons by elevation", "text": "List of Swiss cantons by elevation\n\nThe following list is a comparison of elevation absolutes in Switzerland. Data includes interval measures of highest and lowest elevation for all 26 cantons, with coordinates of the highest. Location names, mean elevation, and the numeric differences between high and low elevations are also provided.\n\nMost of the 26 canton high points are located in the Swiss Alps. Others (with lower altitudes), are located in the Jura Mountains. The 14 lower summits (up to the Säntis) are within the hiking trail network. The ascent of the 11 higher summits involves rock climbing or glacier touring.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1885248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885248", "title": "St. Chrischona", "text": "St. Chrischona\n\nSt. Chrischona is a hamlet in the Swiss canton of Basel-Stadt. It is part of the municipality of Bettingen. The centre of the village is located on the highest point of the canton, at 522 metres above sea level.\n\nEast of St. Chrischona, near the German border, is located a 250 m high communication tower.\n\nSt. Chrischona is the home of the St. Chrischona Pilgrim Mission (Today: Theologisches Seminar St. Chrischona TSC), an evangelical training school for home and foreign missions, led by Karl Heinrich Rappard (1837–1909) and his wife Dora Rappard.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1885256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885256", "title": "Bishop O'Dowd High School", "text": "Bishop O'Dowd High School\n\nBishop O'Dowd High School is a Catholic, co-educational, college preparatory school in Oakland, California, administered by the Roman Catholic Diocese of Oakland and named for the late auxiliary Bishop of the Archdiocese of San Francisco, James T. O'Dowd (1907–1950). The school requires all students to attend school liturgies (Catholic Mass and prayer services), to enroll in religious studies courses each semester, and to complete its 4-year service learning program. O’Dowd is a Catholic high school community of 1,186 students. The school has 125 faculty and staff members and more than 80 part-time coaches, teachers and moderators.\n\nBishop O’Dowd High School is named in memory of the former Superintendent of Schools of the Archdiocese of San Francisco, Bishop James T. O’Dowd, who died at the age of 42 from injuries sustained in a train accident. Having just helped to establish Marin Catholic and Riordan high schools, O'Dowd was in the process of drawing up plans for a new Catholic high school in the East Bay at the time of his sudden death.\n\nBishop O'Dowd's first senior class graduated in 1955, and since then O'Dowd has had over 12,000 graduates.\n\nIn June 2010, O’Dowd successfully completed a three-year, $9 million comprehensive fundraising campaign and funds raised were split about evenly between capital development and program enhancement. Funds contributed to renovation of many elements of the classroom buildings — from floors to ceilings, interior and exterior, every classroom, lab and locker, from ventilation to technology infrastructure.\n\nIn 2015 the men's basketball team won the CIF Open Division Championship and the women's team won the Division 3 CIF State Championship. The men's team was led by Ivan Rabb the no. 8 player in the country. As of 2015, O'Dowd's basketball team was ranked 13th nationally.\n\nIn 2015, over 99% of the graduating class enrolled in colleges and universities. 94% of the graduates enrolled in four-year colleges with 5% enrolling in two-year colleges. Each year graduates disperse to universities throughout the nation, from East Coast Ivy League schools to the outstanding universities in California. Typically about 33% choose a UC school, 40% attend Catholic, private, or other religious university, 22% enroll in the California State University system and 5% go to a junior college.\n\n\nBishop O'Dowd High School was recognized as a Blue Ribbon School in 1990–1991.\n\n"}
{"id": "1885260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885260", "title": "Dean's List", "text": "Dean's List\n\nA Dean's List is an academic award, or distinction, used to recognize the level of highest scholarship demonstrated by students in a college or university. This system is most often used in North America, though institutions in Europe, Asia, and Australia may also employ similar measures. It is often synonymous with honor roll and honor list, but should not be confused with honours degrees.\n\nGenerally, students enrolled in college or university would need to satisfy a series of specific requirements before receiving the Dean's List. These requirements may differ across institutions, but in most cases will require students to enroll in a full-time capacity, to achieve a specific grade point average within the academic term, and to maintain a specific cumulative grade point average throughout enrollment. Universities may often establish further rewards, such as Annual Dean's Lists, for students that demonstrate even greater academic distinction. As such, a Dean's List and its direct derivatives are usually intended for students that demonstrate highest scholarship across multiple disciplines, and not necessarily bound to a specific field of study.\n\nOver time, the Dean's List has also led to the creation of additional rewards with similar nomenclatures, including the Provost's List, the Chancellor's List, the Rector's List (mostly limited to within Europe), and the Director's List. The additional requirements to be met for such honors may include academic distinction within a target field of study, extracurricular achievements, continued high scholarship throughout enrollment or other noteworthy accomplishments.\n\nAlthough the Dean's List and Latin honors may both be issued in recognition of high scholarship, they are mostly separate awards not intended for direct comparison.\nMany institutions confer three levels of Latin honors, as follows:\n\nBecause Latin honors are often conferred to the approximate class rank whereby students also receive the Dean's List (as the top 10-15%), magna and summa cum laude are usually held in higher regard. A Dean's List may therefore be seen as equal to (or more prestigious than) \"cum laude,\" depending on the specific requirements involved.\n\nThe Dean's List GPA requirements vary from school to school, although there are general standards:\n\nSome schools maintain two lists for two different levels of GPA. For example, the dean's list records students with at least a 3.5 GPA whereas the chancellor's list records students with a higher 4.0 GPA.\n\nDifferent from an academic scholarship, the dean's list award does not come with any financial aid. However, students high on the dean's list are often offered extra financial aid, especially if they express a desire to transfer or exhibit more financial need.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, colleges and universities may utilize variations of the British degree classifications to distinguish students of high scholarship. The classification system as currently used in the United Kingdom, for example, was developed in 1918. The system was implemented based on one from the 16th century, when the Regius Professor of Divinity at the University of Cambridge implemented norm referencing to distinguish the top 25% of candidates, the next 50%, and the bottom 25%.\n\nToday, first-class honours (commonly referred to as \"first-hons\") is awarded, by most institutions, to any student that receives a grade of 70% or higher (as opposed to classification by class rank). The number of first-class honours degrees has reportedly tripled since the 1990s, and there has been concern over possible grade inflation due to increasing numbers of higher-class honours degrees awarded per annum.\n\n"}
{"id": "1885276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885276", "title": "German Entrepreneurial Index", "text": "German Entrepreneurial Index\n\nGEX is a German stock market index based owner-dominated companies, which have been listed on the German stock exchange less than ten years.\n\nOwner domination entails that members of the executive and supervisory boards or their families hold between 25 and 75 percent of the voting rights in the company. Many small and medium-sized companies are led by their owners and the Index focuses on this segment. On average, companies on the Index have been listed for approximately five years. Thus, the GEX index serves as an indicator for the price development of small and medium-sized companies on the exchange. The number of listed companies that qualify has fallen from around 120 to 35 between 2010 and 2012.\n\n\n"}
