{"id": "1905792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1905792", "title": "Ironbridge power stations", "text": "Ironbridge power stations\n\nThe Ironbridge power stations (also known as the Buildwas power stations) refers to a series of two power stations that occupied a site on the banks of the River Severn at Buildwas in Shropshire, England. The Ironbridge B Power Station was operated by E.ON UK but the site is now owned by Uniper. The station stands near the Ironbridge Gorge World Heritage Site. Originally powered by coal, they were converted to use 100% biomass fuel. Ironbridge B Power Station stopped generating electricity on 20 November 2015, with the decommissioning process continuing into 2017. The main phase of the 27-month demolition process began at 11:00 GMT on 6 December 2019, commencing with the four cooling towers. This was to make space for over 1,000 homes, shops and other buildings.\n\nIronbridge was selected to be the site of a large, modern \"super station\" by the West Midlands Joint Electricity Authority, in February 1927. The land had been identified earlier by Walsall Borough as being suitable for power generation, in 1924. The close proximity of the River Severn and several railway lines provided excellent access to both cooling water and a source for the delivery of coal. The flat land of the site, formed by fluvial processes at the end of the last ice-age, was ideal for the construction of a large turbine hall.\n\nConstruction of the first Ironbridge Power Station (later to become known as Ironbridge A Power Station) began in 1929, and the first phase was completed in 1932. The station officially opened on 13 October 1932. The full generating capacity of Ironbridge A was not realised until major expansions and the commissioning of extra boilers and generating sets had been completed in 1939. This gave the A Station a total generating output of 200 megawatts (MW).\n\nThe generating capacity and thermal efficiency were as shown in the table.\n\nAs a result of the increasing demand for electricity after World War II, it was decided by the Central Electricity Generating Board that a new, larger, 1000 MW power station called Ironbridge B, was to be constructed alongside the A Station. The A station was partially closed on 27 October 1980, with the decommissioning of 100 MW of the station's generating capacity. The remainder of the station's capacity ceased generating electricity in 1981 and significant portions of the station were demolished in 1983 prior to being granted listed building status.\n\nParliamentary approval for Ironbridge B Power Station was sought and granted in 1962. Construction began in 1963, with the aim to begin generating electricity in the station in 1967. Due to construction delays, some limited industrial action and the implementation of improvements that had been pioneered during the construction of similar stations using the new 500 MW generating units, Ironbridge B did not begin feeding power into the National Grid until 11 June 1969. Full capacity was not reached until the second 500 MW unit began generating in February 1970. There were 2 × 17.5 MW auxiliary gas turbines on the site, these had been commissioned in August 1967. Ironbridge B Power Station stopped generating electricity on 20 November 2015 when it reached its 20,000 hours limit of generation under a European Union Directive, the decommissioning process is expected to continue into late 2023 with demolition commencing 6 December 2019.\n\nProject architect Alan Clark worked closely with landscape architect Kenneth Booth, to ensure that the station merged as far as possible into its natural surroundings. In this respect, the power station was unique amongst British coal-fired stations. When viewed from Ironbridge, the surroundings of the station are hidden by wooded hills. The cooling towers were deliberately constructed using concrete to which a red pigment had been added, to blend with the colour of the local soil. This had cost £11,000 in the 1960s. The towers could not be seen at all from the world-famous landmark, The Iron Bridge. The station's single high chimney was fifth tallest chimney in the UK. It was the tallest structure in Shropshire, as well as being taller than Blackpool Tower and London's BT Tower.\n\nThe station's turbine hall is decoratively clad in chipped granite faced concrete panels, aluminium sheeting, and glazing. The turbine hall obscures the rather more functional metal clad boiler house from view. A free-standing administration block continues the theme of concrete panelling, albeit with extensive use of large floor to ceiling windows. Period fittings within the administration block include a board room, containing murals that reference the industries of the Ironbridge Gorge, and a grand entrance hall with a metallic mural.\n\nSo impressive were the measures taken to ensure that the power station was an asset to the gorge and not an eyesore, that it was short listed for a Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors/The Times conservation award in 1973.\n\nWhen fully operational and using 100% coal as a fuel source the power station generated electricity using two 500 MW generating sets. The turbines' blades are long each and when the turbines spun at their usual fixed speed of 3,000 rpm, the outermost tip of the last row of blades travel at approximately 2,000 km/h. The boilers operated on pulverised coal and delivered 844 kg/s of steam at 158.6 bar and 566°C. In the financial year 1980/1 the station sent out 5,285.937 GWh, the thermal efficiency was 33.13 per cent. The station used low NOx burners and electrostatic precipitators to reduce its environmental impact. The majority of the station's ash waste was sold to the construction industry.\n\nThe generating capacity and thermal efficiency were as shown in the table.\nUntil June 2010, approximately 3000 – 6000 tonnes of coal was delivered to the power station every day, via a branch line railway through Madeley, Ironbridge and Coalbrookdale, crossing the River Severn via the Grade 2 Listed Albert Edward Bridge. The railway branch joins the Wolverhampton to Shrewsbury line at Madeley Junction.\n\nCoal was delivered variously by DBS, Freightliner and Fastline. After the trains were emptied, they were usually stabled at Warrington Arpley Yard. From 2014 until closure, an additional three trains per day were worked by GB Railfreight from Liverpool dock with biomass chips, which were the main source of feedstock for the power station by then.\n\nScheduled passenger services on the branch line were stopped in the 1960s, and so the line was kept open primarily for the transportation of coal to the power station. A steam locomotive-hauled special passenger train, organised by railtour company 'Vintage Trains', visited the branch line on 3 November 2007. The tour was entitled \"Pannier to Ironbridge\", and was hauled by former Great Western Railway 0-6-0 Pannier tank No. 9466, which ran a return trip between Tyseley, near Birmingham, and Ironbridge.\n\nIn 1990 the CEGB was split into different companies for privatisation, and Ironbridge Power Station went through a number of ownership transfers before eventually being owned by Powergen. In 2001 Powergen was taken over by E.ON, an energy company based in Germany.\n\nThe station was the last major generator of electricity in Shropshire. The plant consumed about 1.2 million tonnes of coal and 20,000 tonnes of oil each year, and generated 2,990 GWh of electricity in 2004.\n\nEnvironmental group Friends of the Earth claimed in 2006 the station was the second worst polluting power station in the United Kingdom per megawatt output. Ironbridge had been opted out of the Large Combustion Plant Directive, which meant the station would only be allowed to operate for up to 20,000 hours after 1 January 2008, and that it must close by 31 December 2015. In 2012 Ironbridge underwent modification to allow both generating units to run on 100% biomass (wooden pellets). This reduced the generating capacity from 500MW per unit to approximately 370MW per unit. \n\nIn February 2014 fire damaged Unit 1 turbine and generator in Ironbridge B, and in May E.ON announced that the 370 MW unit would not be repaired, reducing the plant's generation capacity.\n\nFollowing the switch off of Ironbridge B Power Station on 20 November 2015, work began on decommissioning the power station, and was expected to last into 2017. Initial demolition of the site started in July 2017 when the conveyors for the transport of coal and the associated workings were taken down. The rest of the site was to be demolished by the end of 2018 although opinion was divided on whether to demolish or keep the unique 'pink' cooling towers. Locals had sought to save the towers from demolition but English Heritage previously said the towers could not be protected as they do not meet strict criteria. The cooling towers were demolished as planned on Friday 6 December 2019 at 11:00. \n\nThe Telford Steam Railway has aspirations to take over the now disused railway track between the power station and Lightmoor Junction, as part of their southern extension from Horsehay through Doseley. It is unknown how this would interact with trains from the national network should a passenger service be introduced to the new development.\n\nIn June 2018 the Harworth Group announced that it had bought the Ironbridge power station site for an undisclosed sum. Plans for the site included the development of 'several hundred new homes' together with commercial development, leisure uses and significant public open space. An outline planning application for this development was submitted to both Shropshire Council and Telford and Wrekin Council on 19 December 2019.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1905796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1905796", "title": "Avrion Mitchison", "text": "Avrion Mitchison\n\nMitchison was born in 1928, the son of the Labour politician Dick Mitchison (Baron Mitchison of Carradale in the County of Argyll, who died 1970) and his wife, the writer Naomi (née Haldane). His uncle was the biologist J.B.S. Haldane and his grandfather the physiologist John Scott Haldane. His elder brothers are the bacteriologist Denis Mitchison and the zoologist Murdoch Mitchison.\n\nHe is married to Lorna Margaret Martin, daughter of Maj-Gen John Simson Stuart Martin, CSI. They have five children, Tim, Matthew, Mary, Hannah and Ellen. Two are cell biologists Tim Mitchison and Hannah M. Mitchison.\n\nHe was educated at Leighton Park School and secured a Classics scholarship to Balliol College. He received his DPhil at New College, Oxford with Nobelist Sir Peter Medawar. This was followed by a long career as Professor of Zoology at University College London, where his uncle J.B.S. Haldane taught, at the National Institute of Medical Research at Mill Hill and as founding Director of the German Rheumatism Research Center Berlin (DRFZ) in Germany. He is currently a Professor Emeritus at University College London.\n\nMitchison's contributions to immunology include the discovery of both low dose and high dose tolerance for a single antigen, a surprising result in the context of basic clonal selection theory, but which can be understood in the context of immune network theory. He was also a founder member of the British Society for Immunology alongside John H. Humphrey, Bob White, and Robin Coombs.\n\nMitchison discovered the transference of transplantation immunity by sensitised cells, thereby providing evidence relating transplantation immunity to hypersensitivity reactions of the 'delayed' type. He devised a method for revealing mixtures of cells of different genotypes in vivo and used it to be equal first in demonstrating that the 'radiation recovery factor' is a graft of living cells and not a humoral agent. He carried out the most exact quantitative analysis of tolerance hitherto attempted in a cellular system and proved that persistence of tolerance depends on persistence of antigen.\n\nMitchison was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society (FRS) in 1967. He is also a foreign member of the National Academy of Sciences, USA. He holds an Honorary Doctorate from the Weizmann Institute and won the Novartis Prize in Basic Immunology.\n\nIn honor of its Founding Director, the Deutsches Rheuma-Forschungszentrum Berlin (DRFZ), a Leibniz Institute, annually awards the Avrion Mitchison Prize to young scientists contributing significantly to understanding and treating rheumatic diseases. Donated by the Ernst Schering Foundation until 2018, the prize is now awarded by the DRFZ. The prize money is 3.000 Euros.\n\n"}
{"id": "1905800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1905800", "title": "Antietam Creek", "text": "Antietam Creek\n\nAntietam Creek is a tributary of the Potomac River located in south central Pennsylvania and western Maryland in the United States, a region known as the Hagerstown Valley. The creek became famous as a focal point of the Battle of Antietam during the American Civil War.\n\nThe creek is formed in Franklin County, Pennsylvania, at the confluence of the West and East Branches of Antietam Creek, about south of Waynesboro, Pennsylvania. Welty's Mill Bridge crosses the East Branch of Little Antietam at Washington Township in Franklin County, Pennsylvania. The stream runs for about upon its entering Washington County, Maryland. The course proceeds southward in a meandering pattern, and the creek empties into the Potomac south of Sharpsburg about upstream of Washington.\n\nThe watershed area is and includes parts of Franklin County (106 mi) and Washington County (185 mi). Major tributaries in Pennsylvania include the East and West Branches, Red Run and Falls Creek. Major tributaries in Maryland include Little Antietam Creek, Beaver Creek, and Marsh Run. Communities in the watershed include Waynesboro in Pennsylvania; and Boonsboro, Funkstown, Hagerstown, Mount Aetna, Sharpsburg and Smithsburg in Maryland.\n\nAt least four different tributaries are named Little Antietam Creek. Little Antietam Creek which empties into the Antietam in Keedysville, Maryland and another below Leitersburg, Maryland. The name Little Antietam Creek is also applied to the East and West Branch in Pennsylvania, the West Branch historically Little Antietam Creek proper. These names are listed in the United States Geological Survey as variants.\n\nThe term \"Antietam\" is thought to derive from an Algonquian phrase meaning \"swift-flowing stream\". Historical and variant names include Andiedom, Andirton Creek, Ant-eat-em Creek, Anticturn Creek, Antieatum Creek, Crooked Brook, Odieta Creek and Ondieta Creek.\n\nThe creek is noted for numerous well-preserved stone arch bridges dating to the 19th century that still traverse the creek, the most famous of which is the Burnside's Bridge in the Antietam National Battlefield.\n\nThe creek was a major topographic feature during the Battle of Antietam or Sharpsburg, fought on September 17, 1862, near the creek's mouth. Burnside's Bridge became a major focus of combat as Union forces under General Ambrose Burnside repeatedly tried to capture the bridge from Confederate forces guarding the crossing from a high bluff overlooking the creek. The day of the battle is known as \"the day Antietam Creek ran red\" due to the blood of thousands of Union casualties mixing with the creek waters. Both sides lost about a fourth of their number but, despite General McClellan's refusal to press on his attacks, it served as a tactical Union victory, as Lee was forced to withdraw from Maryland.\n\nMost of the watershed area is relatively rural in nature, but the area surrounding Hagerstown is threatened by urban sprawl. The area is also heavily cultivated, and waste runoff from farms is a growing water quality concern. The Maryland Department of the Environment (MDE) has identified farm runoff as the largest source of sediment (loose soil) in Antietam Creek and its tributaries. The second largest source is urban runoff. MDE recommends that farmers implement best management practices on their lands to control runoff, such as installing riparian buffers.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1905808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1905808", "title": "Lou Johnson", "text": "Lou Johnson\n\nLouis Brown Johnson (born September 22, 1932), nicknamed Sweet Lou, is an American former Major League Baseball outfielder. Johnson's professional baseball career lasted for 17 seasons, and included eight years in the majors: parts of – and , and then the full seasons of through . He threw and batted right-handed and was listed as tall and .\n\nJohnson did not establish himself as a big-league regular until he was almost 33 years of age. He had trials with the Chicago Cubs (34 games played in 1960), Los Angeles Angels (only one appearance in 1961), and Milwaukee Braves (61 games in 1962). Only after he was summoned to the Los Angeles Dodgers from Triple-A Spokane, when the Dodgers lost regular outfielder Tommy Davis to a broken ankle on May 1, 1965, did Johnson earn a foothold in the major leagues. He became the Dodgers' regular left fielder during their 1965 world championship season, started over 60 games in both left and right fields in 1966 (during which the Dodgers captured their second straight National League pennant), and started another 85 games in the Dodger outfield in . He remained in the majors for two more years as a reserve player, returning to the Cubs () and Angels (1969) to bookend a stint with the Cleveland Indians (1968).\n\nHe is currently employed by the Dodgers' Community Relations Department.\n\nJohnson was born on September 22, 1932 in Lexington, Kentucky to Sidney Bell & Shirley Johnson. He has 3 brothers and 1 sister. At Dunbar High School in Lexington, he played both basketball as well as baseball. Johnson desired to play basketball at the University of Kentucky under the coach Adolph Rupp. However, at the time, not only were members of the Southeastern Conference (of which Kentucky is an affiliate) not recruiting black athletes, most of its universities were segregated.\n\nJohnson was signed by the New York Yankees as an amateur free agent in 1953. After moving around from team to team in the minor leagues for about a decade, he finally played in 61 games for the 1962 Milwaukee Braves. However, after that, the Braves traded Johnson to the Detroit Tigers system, which sent him back to the minor leagues for the 1963 and '64 seasons. They then traded him to the Los Angeles Dodgers for the pitcher Larry Sherry.\n\nJohnson made it to the major leagues to stay for a stretch beginning in 1965 with the Dodgers when a broken ankle in early May sidelined Tommy Davis, their regular left fielder, for the remainder of the season. Johnson filled in for Davis, playing in 130 games for the Dodgers that season, scoring 57 runs and batting .260 with 58 runs batted in. In that season, Johnson also scored the only run in Sandy Koufax's perfect game victory when he walked, went to second base on a sacrifice bunt, stole third base, and then scored on a throwing error by the Chicago Cubs catcher, Chris Krug. The Dodgers made it to the 1965 World Series versus the Minnesota Twins, and in this Series, Johnson had eight hits, including two home runs, the second one being the game-winning one in the decisive seventh game.\n\nJohnson's high-water season in the major leagues was 1966. With Tommy Davis back in left field, and Willie Davis in center field, Johnson played mostly in right field. Frequently batting third in the order, right ahead of the dangerous hitter Tommy Davis, Johnson set career highs by playing in 152 games, getting 526 at-bats, 143 hits, 17 home runs, scoring 71 runs, and batting in 73. Johnson's batting average that season was .272, and the Dodgers made it to the World Series once again.\n\nThis was also Koufax's last year in baseball before retiring because of his damaged and getting-worse left arm. In this World Series, against the Baltimore Orioles, the Dodgers' offense hit rock-bottom, with the team getting shut out three times, and only scoring two runs in the four games. Johnson finished the series with four hits in 15 at-bats. He also flied out to Paul Blair for the final out of the Series.\n\nFrom this point on, Johnson's major league career rapidly wound down, as he broke his leg sliding into Joe Torre and played in just 104 games for the Dodgers in 1967, a combined 127 for the Chicago Cubs and the Cleveland Indians in 1968, and just 67 for the California Angels in 1969, with only a .203 batting average. In 1970, at the age of 35, Johnson was out of professional baseball for good.\n\nIn his approximately eight-year-long Major League career, Johnson posted a .258 overall average with 48 home runs and 232 RBI in 677 games played.\n\n"}
{"id": "1905811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1905811", "title": "Tim Mitchison", "text": "Tim Mitchison\n\nTimothy John Mitchison is a cell biologist and systems biologist and Hasib Sabbagh Professor of Systems Biology at Harvard Medical School in the United States. He is known for his discovery, with Marc Kirschner, of dynamic instability in microtubules, for studies of the mechanism of cell division, and for contributions to chemical biology.\n\nMitchison was educated at Haberdashers' Aske's Boys' School and completed his Bachelor of Arts degree in Biochemistry at the University of Oxford where he was an undergraduate student of Merton College, Oxford from 1976 to 1979. He moved to the University of California, San Francisco (UCSF) in 1979 for his PhD which was supervised by Marc Kirschner and investigated the dynamic instability of microtubules.\n\nMitchison returned to the UK for postdoctoral research at the National Institute for Medical Research (NIMR) in London. In 1988 he returned to San Francisco where he was appointed assistant professor at UCSF. In 1994 he wrote an opinion piece for the journal \"Chemistry & Biology\" titled \"Towards a pharmacological genetics\" which helped to launch the field of chemical genetics. In 1997 he moved to Harvard University to become co-director of the Institute for Chemistry and Cell Biology at Harvard Medical School, where he pioneered phenotype-based screening, discovering the small molecule monastrol – the first small-molecule inhibitor of mitosis that does not target tubulin. Monastrol was shown to inhibit kinesin-5, a motor protein. In 2003 he became Deputy Chair of the newly formed Department of Systems Biology, chaired by Marc Kirschner. He works on aspects of mesoscale biology including the self-organization of the cytoskeleton and of cytoplasm. He collaborates extensively with Christine Field on the mechanism of cytokinesis.\n\nMitchison was elected Fellow of the Royal Society (FRS) in 1997 for “substantial contributions to the improvement of natural knowledge” and served as president of the American Society for Cell Biology (ASCB) in 2010. He was elected a member of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States in 2014 and delivered the Keith R. Porter Lecture in 2013.\n\nMitchison is married to scientist Christine M. Field with whom he has adopted two children. Mitchison comes from a family of distinguished biologists; his father is Avrion Mitchison, his uncles are Denis Mitchison and Murdoch Mitchison, his great uncle was J.B.S. Haldane and his great-grandfather John Scott Haldane. His grandparents were the politician Dick Mitchison and the writer Naomi Mitchison (née Haldane). His younger sister Hannah M. Mitchison is also a biologist.\n"}
{"id": "1905819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1905819", "title": "Eugène Gabritschevsky", "text": "Eugène Gabritschevsky\n\nEugène (or Eugen) Gabritschevsky (December 1893 – April 5, 1979) was a Russian biologist and artist. He was born into a comfortable family of scientists from Imperial Russia. His father was a renowned bacteriologist, and worked with Louis Pasteur in France and with Robert Koch in Germany.\n\nGabritschevsky studied biology at the University of Moscow from 1913, specialising in problems related to heredity. He finished his studies successfully and went into research. In 1925, he was invited to the Columbia University in the United States, where he continued his work for two years, and in 1927, he settled in Paris, where he continued his research at the Pasteur Institute. By the age of thirty-three, he was well known in his field, and was world-renowned for his knowledge on the laws of mutation in the lives of insects.\n\nHe was committed to Haar-Eflingen psychiatric hospital in 1931 and diagnosed with schizophrenia. He spent the remainder of his life in the hospital.\n\nIn the ensuing thirty years, Gabritschevsky created an extraordinary body of art: thousands of paintings and drawings. His first works look quite academic and are inspired by corals or human figures. As his condition worsened, however, his subjects gradually changed. He started painting ghost-looking silhouettes, large-headed monsters with huge eyes, and then later small beings that look like mutants.\n\nHis artistic output continues to have appeal, however, and his paintings have appeared on record sleeves of the Scottish folk band Appendix Out and the American band Mob Trio. In addition, his scientific papers are still held in high esteem, and are often cited.\n"}
{"id": "1905821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1905821", "title": "Kabo Air", "text": "Kabo Air\n\nKabo Air is a Nigerian charter airline headquartered in Kano, Kano State and based at Mallam Aminu Kano International Airport.\n\nThe airline was established in February 1980 by Dr. Alhaji Muhammadu Adamu Dankabo and started operations in April 1981. It is currently wholly owned by Kabo Holdings.\n\nThe airline originally operated special charter services for corporate bodies, executives and government officials. The company stopped operating domestic services in 2001 when they focus solely on Hajj flights and international charters. However, in 2009 the airline received approval to start international scheduled services. Traffic rights were given to Kabo Air for operating scheduled services to Rome, Nairobi and N'Djamena, but have not been used. The airline operated scheduled flights from Kano to Abuja, Cairo, Dubai and Jeddah for a short period.\n\nKabo Air met the requirements set by the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) for re-capitalization in May 2007. \n\nOn 3 March 2017, the offices of Kabo Air were sealed by the Nigerian Federal Inland Revenue Service due to unpaid tax liabilities. It has been reported that Kabo Air owes over 149 million Nigerian naira (approx. US-$ 460,000) in taxes.\n\nAs of March 2017, Kabo Air does not operate any scheduled services and focuses on charter operations, especially for pilgrim flights under its own name and on behalf of other airlines.\n\nAs of August 2019, the Kabo Air fleet consists of the following aircraft:\n\nThe Kabo Air fleet previously included the following aircraft:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1905822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1905822", "title": "The Dark Flame", "text": "The Dark Flame\n\nThe Dark Flame is a Big Finish Productions audio drama based on the long-running British science fiction television series \"Doctor Who\".\n\nThe Seventh Doctor, Ace and Bernice investigate the legendary Cult of the Dark Flame.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1905824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1905824", "title": "Edgar Dale", "text": "Edgar Dale\n\nEdgar Dale (April 27, 1900 in Benson, Minnesota, – March 8, 1985 in Columbus, Ohio) was an American educator who developed the Cone of Experience, also known as the Learning Pyramid. He made several contributions to audio and visual instruction, including a methodology for analyzing the content of motion pictures.\n\nEdgar Dale was born on April 27, 1900 in Benson, Minnesota. He received a B.A. and M.A. from the University of North Dakota and a Ph.D from the University of Chicago. His doctoral thesis was titled \"Factual Basis for Curriculum Revision in Arithmetic with Special Reference to Children's Understanding of Business Terms.\" and is precursor for his later work with vocabulary and readability.\n\nFrom 1921 to 1924, Dale was a teacher and the superintendent of schools in Webster, North Dakota. In 1924, he became a teacher at junior high school in Winnetka, Illinois, where he stayed until 1926. In 1928, Dale's interest in film led to a position with Eastman Kodak as a member of the editorial staff of Eastman Teaching Films in Rochester, New York for one year.\n\nIn 1929, Dale left Kodak to become a professor at Ohio State University. Dale remained a professor at OSU until his retirement in 1970.\n\nIn 1933, Dale wrote a paper on how to effectively create a high school film appreciation class. This paper has been noted for having a very different view of adolescent interaction with films than that taken by the Film Control Boards of the time.\n\nDale died March 8, 1985 in Columbus, Ohio.\n\nIn 1946, Dale introduced the Cone of Experience concept in a textbook on audiovisual methods in teaching. He revised it for a second printing in 1954 and again in 1969.\nDale's \"Cone of Experience,\" which he intended to provide an intuitive model of the concreteness of various kinds of audiovisual media, has been widely misrepresented. Often referred to as the \"Cone of Learning,\" it purports to inform viewers of how much people remember based on how they encounter information.\n\nHowever, Dale included no numbers and did not base his cone on scientific research, and he also warned readers not to take the cone too seriously. The numbers originated from 1967, when a Mobil oil company employee, D.G. Treichler, published a non-scholarly article in Film and Audio-Visual Communications.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1905833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1905833", "title": "Serveis Ferroviaris de Mallorca", "text": "Serveis Ferroviaris de Mallorca\n\nServeis Ferroviaris de Mallorca () or SFM is a company which operates the metre gauge railway network on the Spanish island of Majorca. The total length, including Palma Metro, also operated by this company, is 85 km.\n\nIn 1977, the line Palma - Inca was the sole remnant of a network that once connected Palma with most of the island. In 2001, the section Inca - Sa Pobla reopened, followed by the section Inca - Sineu in 2002 and Sineu - Manacor in 2003.\n\nThe expected extension of the branch line from Sa Pobla onwards to Alcúdia in 2005 has yet to be built.\n\nThe line from Manacor to Artà was under construction for a planned 2012 reopening. The project was halted in 2013 (with most of the groundwork completed) and an announcement made that the route instead was to be converted \"for the time being\") to a \"via verde\" for cyclists and walkers.\n\n€30m was invested in electrifying the whole line, from Palma to Inca, at 1.5 kV DC, which was completed in 2011. CAF EMUs have been purchased; these displaced diesel vehicles, which were then sold to Overview LDAand to Kenya Railways for use on suburban services in Nairobi.\n"}
{"id": "1905843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1905843", "title": "Buildwas", "text": "Buildwas\n\nBuildwas is a village and civil parish in Shropshire, England, on the north bank of the River Severn at . It lies on the B4380 road to Atcham. The Royal Mail postcodes begin TF6 and TF8.\n\nBuildwas Primary Academy is situated on the Buildwas bank road. The school has been running since 1855, and has three classes and a nursery.\n\nBuildwas has a nine-hole golf course which runs between the River Severn and Ironbridge Power Station. It is open to members of Buildwas Abbey Club.\n\nThe village of Buildwas has been recognised since 1086 as the first reference to it was made in the Domesday Book. Buildwas was valued at 45 shillings (£2.25) to the Bishop of Chester, i.e. the Bishop of Lichfield and Coventry, the local diocesan bishop, in 1086. The value of the manor was the same as in 1066, although it had slipped in the interim period. Its value lay in its location on the River Severn its woodland, which was useful for agricultural and farming purposes. During this time period, the village had a total population of nine households, three of villeins, five of slaves and one the reeve. Due to this the village only had a total tax assessment of one geld unit which was very small. Buildwas had resources of 200 pigs and a mill which people relied on. The manor was assigned to Buildwas Abbey, originally founded as a Savigniac monastery, in 1135 by Roger de Clinton (1129–1148), Bishop of Coventry and Lichfield. The Savigniac houses were later absorbed into the Cistercian order. After the abbey was suppressed in 1536, as part of the Dissolution of the Monasteries, the site and much of the property was granted to Edward Grey, 3rd Baron Grey of Powis\n\nThe first census regarding occupational data for the village of Buildwas was taken in 1831 and gives a valuable insight into the village for this time period. The census showed that the biggest employability sector at this time was agricultural labourers, and there were 35 people employed in this field. The second biggest field was retail and handicrafts, which employed seven people in the village. There was one capitalist or professional person within the village and the remaining people were farmers and servants.\n\nThe 1881 census of the village gave valuable insight into how the population had slowly increased and how the jobs had diversified. Agriculture was still the biggest employment sector with 41 people but other job fields had grown over the course of fifty years. There were fifteen females and eight males employed in domestic services and offices. There were twelve males employed in the extraction of mineral substances and three people who worked in transport and commerce. There were forty people in the survey who were classified as having an unknown occupation and three male workers in food and lodging.\n\nPopulation change in Buildwas has experienced a great deal of fluctuation since the first census of 1801 was taken. This is because the village had a small population of 258 to begin with in the first place meaning that any change is a lot more visible. In 1811 the population had declined to 226 people but then experienced a gradual increase to 240 people in 1821 and stayed at this level through to 1831. Over the next ten years, the village had experienced a rapid population increase of 33 people in 1841 and in 1851 the population had increased again to 290 people. From 1851 to 1881 there had been a population decrease of eighteen people. During 1881 there was a national population change across the country with an overall decrease of 3% and this change of population was apparent in Buildwas as from 1881 to 1891 there was a population decrease of thirty-one people. The population increased by thirty-four people in 1901 and by 1911 the population had increased by thirty-two people.\n\nAccording to the 2001 Census, Buildwas had a total of 134 dwellings. Of these, 42 were categorised as being flats or apartments, 46 detached houses or bungalows, and 46 semi-detached or terraced houses. The average price of property which has been sold in Buildwas was valued at £218,114 which was well above the national average of £161,558 in April 2012.\n\nThe preserved remains of a Cistercian abbey lie on the south bank of the River Severn. These include an unusually unaltered 12th-century church, a vaulted and tile-floored chapter house, and a re-opened crypt chapel. The stone abbey was buildings were completed mainly during the abbacy of Ranulf, which began around 1155. The income for the abbey came mainly from a large portfolio of properties, concentrated around monastic granges in the surrounding areas of Shropshire and Staffordshire. The site is now cared for by English Heritage.\n\nA brick and stone bridge crossed the Severn from medieval times to the 18th century; in floods of 1773 and 1795, it was irreparably damaged and finally swept away by severe flooding following an earthquake. After its destruction, Thomas Telford built a cast-iron arch bridge in 1796, which survived subsequent floods until its replacement by a steel Pratt truss in 1905, which itself was replaced in 1992.\n\n"}
{"id": "1905859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1905859", "title": "List of University of Michigan alumni", "text": "List of University of Michigan alumni\n\nThere are more than 500,000 living alumni of the University of Michigan. Notable alumni include computer scientist and entrepreneur Larry Page, actor James Earl Jones, and President of the United States Gerald Ford.\n\n\n\n\n\"See List of University of Michigan arts alumni\"\n\n\"See List of University of Michigan arts alumni\"\n\n\nA campus plaza was named for McDivitt and White in 1965 to honor their accomplishments on the Gemini IV spacewalk. (At the time of its dedication, the plaza was near the engineering program's facilities, but the College of Engineering has since been moved. The campus plaza honoring them remains.) Two NASA space flights have been crewed entirely by University of Michigan degree-holders: Gemini IV by James McDivitt and Ed White in 1965 and Apollo 15 by Alfred Worden, David Scott (honorary degree) and James Irwin in 1971. The Apollo 15 astronauts left a 45-word plaque on the moon establishing its own chapter of the University of Michigan Alumni Association.\n\n\"See List of University of Michigan arts alumni\"\n\n\"See List of University of Michigan business alumni\"\n\nChurchill Scholarships are annual scholarships offered to graduates of participating universities in the United States and Australia, to pursue studies in engineering, mathematics, or other sciences for one year at Churchill College in the University of Cambridge.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\"See List of University of Michigan arts alumni\".\n\n\n\n\nAs of 2019, 28 Michigan alumni — 17 undergraduate students and 11 graduate students — have been awarded a MacArthur fellowship.\n\n\n\nA number of Michigan graduates or fellows were involved with the Manhattan Project, chiefly with regard to the physical chemistry of the device.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAs of 2018, 36 of Michigan's matriculants have been awarded a Pulitzer Prize. By alumni count, Michigan ranks fifth (as of 2018) among all schools whose alumni have won Pulitzers.\n\n\n\n\n\"See List of University of Michigan sporting alumni\"\n\nNOTE: The University of Michigan Alumni Directory is no longer printed, as of 2004. To find more recent information on an alumnus, you must log into the Alumni Association website to search their online directory.\n\n"}
{"id": "1905865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1905865", "title": "Brussels Cycling Classic", "text": "Brussels Cycling Classic\n\nThe Brussels Cycling Classic (known until June 2013 as Paris–Brussels) is a semi classic European bicycle race, one of the oldest races on the international calendar.\n\nParis–Brussels was first run on 12 August 1893 as an amateur event over a distance of 397 km, Belgian Andre Henry took the inaugural victory from compatriot Charles Delbecque with France's Fernand Augenault coming in third. The race did not return to the racing calendar until 1906 when it was run as a two-day event on 3 and 4 June. The first stage of this 1906 event was run from the Paris suburb of Villiers-sur-Marne to Reims over 152 km and was won by France's Maurice Bardonneau. Albert Dupont took the more challenging second stage on the following day from Reims to Brussels over 239 km to take the overall race victory from compatriots Jules Patou and Guillaume Coeckelberg. The following year the race reverted to being a one-day race and quickly established itself as one of the Spring Classics with a date towards the end of April, between Paris–Roubaix and Gent–Wevelgem. The event lost its prestige during the 1960s when the race was beset by traffic problems between the two capitals and the Dutch promoted Amstel Gold Race took its place on the classics calendar. The race was not run between 1967 and 1972.\n\nWhen the race returned in 1973 it was staged on a midweek date towards the end of September, just before Paris-Tours. The 1973 race was won by Eddy Merckx. In 1996 the race was switched from its midweek date back to being run on a Saturday. The most individual wins stood for a long time at three, by Octave Lapize (France) and Felix Sellier (Belgium). Lapize won in 1911, 1912 and 1913 and Sellier in 1922, 1923 and 1924. Lapize could have been a four time winner but was disqualified after crossing the line first in the 1910 race when he and two other riders did not observe a mid race neutralised section, Maurice Brocco who crossed the line in fourth place was declared the eventual winner. In 2007, Robbie McEwen broke the record by winning his fourth race, and bettered this again with a fifth win in 2008.\n\nIn 2005 the race was set to change its name to the Grand Prix Eddy Merckx when an agreement was reached by the race organisers to amalgamate the two events. However, the deal fell through at the last minute and Paris–Brussels retained its name and the Grand Prix Eddy Merckx, a two rider time trial event, disappeared from the racing calendar.\nIn 2013 the race became the Brussels Cycling Classic and took place entirely in Belgium.\n\nOctave Lapize’s second victory in 1912 had an element of good fortune about it, Lucien Petit-Breton and Cyrille van Hauwaert had broken away and the race looked certain to be decided between them when both riders were knocked off their bikes by a police horse allowing Lapize to overtake and claim victory. The 1921 race won by Frenchman Robert Reboul was made controversial by the fact that a group of riders chasing a 15-man breakaway (including Reboul) was sent down the wrong route by the race director. One of the riders sent the wrong way in that 1921 race was Felix Sellier who made up for that disappointment by triumphing in the next three editions of the race. His three victories were not without difficulties however, in 1922 he survived a fierce attack from a cloud of insects, in 1923 he had to catch a break that had gained a fifteen-minute advantage and in 1924 he suffered two punctures in the latter part of the race just as the vital break was forming.\n\nThe victory by Belgian Ernest Mottard in 1930 featured one of the great escapes in the history of the race, Mottard broke away from the peloton with 130 miles (209 km) remaining and stayed away until the finish. Ireland’s Shay Elliott was particularly unfortunate in 1958, he had a lead of over a minute with only three miles remaining when he smashed the frame of this bike with no team car near at hand, he was offered a touring bicycle by a spectator but was quickly caught by the chasing bunch and finished well down the field with Belgium‘s Rik Van Looy taking final victory. The 1963 edition of the race was made memorable by a small breakaway forming well before the border into Belgium, which was a rare event in itself. The break established a 13-minute lead and included Britain’s Tom Simpson who was expected to win, being the best sprinter in the break, however his gears slipped in the final sprint and he lost out to France’s Jean Stablinski.\n\nThe 1966 edition of Paris–Brussels was to be the last for seven years, as the race was beset by traffic problems to the route and a loss of prestige as the Amstel Gold Race took its place on the Spring Classics calendar. However, the 1966 race was made memorable by Italian Felice Gimondi who had won the 1965 Tour de France and seven days earlier had triumphed at Paris–Roubaix. Gimondi was the favourite for the race and a marked man, he lived up to his billing by breaking away with the help of team mate Dino Zandegu and winning the race in what was then a record time. Marc Demeyer claimed a close victory from Roger De Vlaeminck and Roger Rosiers in 1974 in the town of Alsemberg which hosted the finish of the race between 1973 and 1980. Gimondi’s record time lasted until 1975 when Freddy Maertens won the race in what was then a record average speed for a professional race and being awarded the Ruban Jaune for averaging 46.11 km per hour throughout the 285.5 km course. Felice Gimondi won again in 1976, ten years after his first victory, once more breaking away while the sprinters watched each other.\n\nThe 1983 race saw Sweden’s Tommy Prim become the first Scandinavian rider to win a classic race. The 1994 race saw a breakaway by Sean Yates, Rolf Sørensen and Franco Ballerini, animosity existed between Yates and Sørensen after a shirt pulling incident in the Tour de France of that year, however, Sørensen dropped his breakaway companions and triumphed. The 1983 victory by Prim saw the start of the trend of the Paris–Brussels winner coming from more diverse nationalities from non traditional cycling nations with victories going to riders from Germany, Holland, Denmark, Latvia, Australia and Luxembourg in the ensuing years. 2010 saw the first victory in the race by a Spaniard when Francisco Ventoso took victory as the race finished in the Uccle municipality of Brussels for the first time.\n\nBefore 1926, the race was always over 400 km, with the longest versions being 440 km in 1913 and 1914. When the race returned after a break for the First World War in 1919 the race length was 417 km but this has reduced over the years with the 2010 edition being over a distance of 218 km, although as recently as 1987 the distance was 309 km when Wim Arras triumphed. The fastest edition of the race was 1975 when a tailwind helped Freddy Maertens finish with an average speed of 46.11 km/h.\n\nThe race started at Soissons, in Picardy, 85 km north-east of Paris, although prior to 1996 the race started in Noyon and during the 1980s in Senlis. The race is level for much of its route and quite often there is a headwind against the riders. The last 25 km of the race are characterised by a series of cobbled climbs such as the Alsemberg, Mont Saint Roch and the Keperenberg and it is on these climbs that the winning break is often made. The race ended for many years in the Anderlecht district of Brussels outside the Constant Vanden Stock Stadium in the Place de Linde. However the 2005 edition saw a new finishing line at the Atomium north of the centre of Brussels.\n\nThe quality of field has suffered since the Vuelta a España moved to September in 1995, many sprinter-roadmen preferring the Spanish Tour.\n\nIn June 2013 it was announced that the race would be renamed the Brussels classic and would take place entirely within Belgium. Starting at Cinquantenaire, the race now takes in 92 km within Walloon Brabant, 86 km in Flemish Brabant, and 23 km in the Brussels-Capital Region, for a total distance of 201 km. The race included eleven climbs including the double ascent of Vossemberg (twice), Smeysberg (twice) and the Langestraat (three times).\n"}
{"id": "1905876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1905876", "title": "Harry Gray (business)", "text": "Harry Gray (business)\n\nHarry Jack Gray (November 18, 1919 – July 8, 2009) was an American business manager and philanthropist, best known as CEO and chairman of United Technologies. He was born Harry Jack Grusin in Milledgeville Crossroads, Georgia. His mother, Bertha Grusin, died of cancer when he was six years old. He went to live with his older sister, Gussie, in Chicago, Illinois. His father's business failed when he was eight, and he financed his college education at the University of Illinois with multiple jobs that included washing dishes, waiting tables, and stoking a boarding-house furnace.\n\nHe graduated with a journalism degree in 1941, and immediately joined the U.S. Army. His service included a year in the U.S. and three and a half years overseas during World War II. He received the Silver Star for valor in the Battle of the Bulge, and was discharged as a captain. Gray resumed his studies at U of I, completing a master's degree, with high honors, in 1947. He changed his last name to Gray in 1951. He worked in advertising and sales until joining Consolidated Electro Dynamics in 1954. That company grew in annual sales from $1 million to $20 billion and changed its name to Litton Industries by the time he left its employ in 1971.\n\nHe left Litton to become president, chief administrative officer, and a member of the board of directors, of United Aircraft. He was named chief executive officer the next year, then also served as chairman of UA and its successor United Technologies Corporation starting in 1974.\n\nIn 1984 Oglethorpe University honored him with the title of Doctor of Engineering in 1984.\n\nShortly before his retirement from UTC in 1986, he also became the second recipient of an honorary doctorate from Central Connecticut State University.\n\nHe then served as chairman and CEO of Harry Gray Associates, which participated with Shawmut National Venture in the 1993 buyout of Mott Metallurgical Corporation. In retirement, he and his wife Helen contributed to organizations such as Hartford Hospital, University of Hartford, University of Connecticut, University of Illinois, Mark Twain House in Hartford and other organizations. He is also listed as the largest private donor to the construction of the National Infantry Museum in Columbus, Georgia. Bronze busts of Gray and his wife are on display in the museum, which also houses his helmet and other memorabilia, including his Silver Star awarded for valor during the Battle of the Bulge.\n\n, Gray was also chairman of the boards of both Mott Corporation and SourceOne. Gray was inducted into the Junior Achievement U.S. Business Hall of Fame in 2003. Gray also served on the Board of Trustees at Sea Research Foundation (parent company of Mystic Aquarium) from 1997 until his death.\n\nHarry Gray died on Wednesday, July 8, 2009 at the age of 89 at Hartford Hospital (in the city that is both Connecticut's capital city and UTC's headquarters' location). According to Stephen Miller's remembrance article published in the Wall Street Journal two days later, he was \"a merger artist who resented making just one deal at a time.\" Gray was both admired and feared as \"The Grand Acquisitor\". In the mid-1970s, his prime deal-making days as CEO and chairman of United Technologies Corp., Gray he had maintained a list of the 50 companies he sought to acquire. \n\nGray was always preoccupied with holding more companies. But he was equally intent on controlling what he had. Passing the torch at the mandatory retirement age of 65 was something he could not abide. \"In this system, we don't need a No. 2 man,\" he once told Business Week.\n\n"}
{"id": "1905882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1905882", "title": "GAP insurance", "text": "GAP insurance\n\nGuaranteed Asset Protection (GAP) insurance (also known as \"GAPS\") was established in the North American financial industry. GAP insurance protects the borrower if the car is totaled by paying the remaining difference between the actual cash value of a vehicle and the balance still owed on the financing. GAP coverage is mainly used on new and used small vehicles (cars and trucks) and heavy trucks. Some financing companies and lease contracts require it.\n\nGAP insurance covers the amount on a loan that is the difference between the amount owed and the amount covered by another insurance policy. Some GAP policies also cover the deductible. This coverage is marketed for low down payment loans, high interest rate loans and loans with 60 month or longer terms. GAP insurance is typically offered by a finance company at time of purchase. Most auto insurance companies offer this coverage to consumers. GAP insurance is usually paid upfront and, for that reason, one is eligible for a refund if he/she sells or refinances their vehicle.\n\nThere are two ways of getting GAP coverage. The first type is an insurance policy sold by a broker. The second type is a waiver agreement sold by a Finance & Insurance Manager. The first is regulated by the insurance industry, the second is unregulated. In either case coverage is usually the same and sold as a soft product through the car dealership. Coverage is usually financed along with the lease/loan. Claims are subject to a total loss. The total loss is usually determined by the primary insurance company’s third-party appraiser.\n\nExclusions to GAP insurance vary by country or state. Some exclusions include a maximum loss limit of $50,000 while others require a loan term of less than 84 months. GAP is an optional purchase; however, many states in the US require that a car dealership offer GAP at the point of purchase. Other states require insurers to offer GAP if a client requests it. States such as Louisiana require that the purchaser sign a disclosure document as proof. Although GAP is optional, some finance companies require GAP as a condition to obtaining a loan. The Truth in Lending Act excludes GAP premiums from financial charges if GAP was not required by the creditor, the premiums were disclosed in writing, and the consumer provides a written request for the insurance.\n\nUK Gap Insurance Update\n\nIn September 2015, the FCA changed the way that Gap Insurance premiums are sold by car dealers in the UK. \n\nClaims ratios for GAP insurance (the amount paid out in comparison to premiums paid) were just 10% between 2008 and 2012, meaning that just £10.00 was paid out for every £100.00 paid in premiums. The poor value for money being given to consumers prompted the FCA to require the following:\n\n"}
{"id": "1905888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1905888", "title": "Doctor Who and the Pirates", "text": "Doctor Who and the Pirates\n\nDoctor Who and the Pirates, or The Lass That Lost A Sailor, is a Big Finish Productions audio drama based on the long-running British science fiction television series \"Doctor Who\". It is the first musical story in the series' history.\n\nThe Sixth Doctor and Evelyn confront the feared pirate captain Red Jasper, and the Doctor sings \"I am the very model of a Gallifreyan buccaneer...\"\n\nThe songs use substituted lyrics in tunes from various Gilbert and Sullivan operettas. These include: \"I am the very model of a Gallifreyan buccaneer\" based on the \"Major General's Song\", \"An assassin's lot is not a happy one\" on the \"Policeman's Chorus\", both from \"The Pirates of Penzance\", and \"I'm Jasper's man\" on \"I am so proud\" from \"The Mikado\". Music from more of their operettas is used elsewhere in it, such as one of the pirates humming \"Rising Early In The Morning\" from \"The Gondoliers\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1905896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1905896", "title": "Ontario Human Rights Code", "text": "Ontario Human Rights Code\n\nThe Ontario Human Rights Code (the Code) is a law in the Canadian province of Ontario that gives all people equal rights and opportunities without discrimination in specific areas such as housing and services. The Code's goal is to prevent discrimination and harassment because of race, colour, gender identity or expression, sex, sexual orientation, disability, creed, age and other grounds.\n\nThe \"Ontario Human Rights Code\" was the first law of its kind in Canada. It replaced various laws that dealt with different kinds of discrimination. The Code brought them together into one law and added some new protections. The Code came into force on June 15, 1962. June 15 was chosen as the proclamation date for the Code because it was the 747th anniversary of the signing of the Magna Carta.\n\nThe Code replaced the province’s existing anti-discrimination legislation, including:\n\nAt the same time that the Ontario Human Rights Commission was created, the government of the day, led by Premier Leslie Frost introduced an amendment to the \"Fair Accommodation Practices Act\" to prohibit discrimination because of race, colour or creed in the renting of apartments in buildings which contain more than six units.\n\nThe Code prohibits discrimination on the following grounds:\n\nThe Code was amended on June 19, 2012, to add gender identity and gender expression to the list of prohibited grounds. The last ground added to the Code is sexual orientation which was added in December 1986.\n\nThe Human Rights Tribunal of Ontario (HRTO) is the administrative, quasi-judicial tribunal tasked with hearing complaints that the Code has been violated. It has the power to grant damages and specific performance to remedy discriminatory acts. The HRTO is subject to judicial review by the Divisional Court of the Ontario Superior Court of Justice.\n\nBefore June 30, 2008, human rights complaints were filed with the Ontario Human Rights Commission (OHRC), which investigated claims of discrimination. Since June 30, 2008, claims of discrimination are filed directly with the HRTO, leaving the OHRC to concentrate its resources on systemic discrimination, public education and policy development.\n\nThe Code is divided into an introductory section, or \"preamble\", followed by seven parts.\n\nThe Code does not apply to federally regulated activities, such as banking, intra-provincial transportation, aeronautics and telecommunications, which are subject to the \"Canadian Human Rights Act\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1905897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1905897", "title": "Colwall", "text": "Colwall\n\nColwall is a large village and civil parish in Herefordshire, England, situated on the border with Worcestershire, nestling on the western side of the Malvern Hills at the heart of the AONB. Areas of the village are known as Colwall Stone, Upper Colwall which shares a common border at the Wyche Cutting with the Malvern suburb of Malvern Wells, and Colwall Green, spread along of the B4218 road, with the historic village core (at the parish church) being to the west of Colwall Stone.\n\nA feature of Colwall is the view of the Iron Age British Camp (Herefordshire Beacon), which largely falls within the southeast corner of the parish. The towns of Ledbury and Malvern are southwest and northeast respectively from Colwall Stone, via the B4218. Colwall is often included in the informal region referred to as \"The Malverns\", which refers to the Malvern Hills and the surrounding settlements.\n\nThe village is served by a single platform railway station on the single track line between the Great Malvern and Ledbury railway stations, which passes through the Colwall Tunnels, the first of which was dug under the Malvern Hills between 1856 and 1860. The original tunnel was closed in the 1920s when it was in danger of collapse, but served the nation during the Second World War when used as a torpedo store; it is now a roost for a colony of lesser horseshoe bats. Near to the station is the mock Tudor country house style Colwall Park Hotel, purpose built in 1905 to serve the now defunct Colwall Park Racecourse.\n\nFrom the 1920s until the 1960s, the road passing through Colwall and The Wyche was numbered the A4105, before being re-classified as the B4218. It is named \"Walwyn Road\" from Colwall Green to The Wyche Cutting, and is served by the 675 bus route, running between Great Malvern, West Malvern and Ledbury, Mondays through Saturdays.\n\nThe village has a state primary school (Church of England), and two independent preparatory schools, \"The Downs, Malvern College Prep.\" and \"The Elms\", founded in 1614. The world's oldest (private) miniature railway is the Downs Light Railway, located on the Downs school estate.\n\nColwall Stone has numerous local shops and service businesses, including a convenience store, a small fruit & veg shop, a butcher's shop, a pharmacy, an estate agent, a hairdressers and a specialist garden centre. There is also a library, a doctors' surgery and a post office. In Upper Colwall, near The Wyche Cutting, is the Malvern Hills GeoCentre, located in the Wyche Innovation Centre (occupying the former Skot Transformers building) along with a cafe and many small businesses.\n\nThe village has several church buildings, most notably the historic Church of England parish church of St James the Great, located in the small medieval core to the west of Colwall Stone. The 'Colwall Community Church' is situated on Walwyn Road in Colwall Stone. On Jubilee Drive in Upper Colwall is the 'Wyche Free Church'. There is also a large, modern village hall on Mill Lane between Colwall Stone and Colwall Green, which incorporates the Church of England's St Crispin's Chapel. The Church of the Good Shepherd in Upper Colwall is no longer a place of worship.\n\nThere are four public houses in the parish — the \"Chase Inn\" in Upper Colwall, the \"Crown\" in Colwall Stone, the \"Yew Tree\" in Colwall Green, and the \"Wellington Inn\" in Chance's Pitch. Additionally there is the \"Colwall Park Hotel\" and \"Thai Rama\" in Colwall Stone and the \"Malvern Hills Hotel\" at the southern end of Jubilee Drive, near the British Camp.\n\nA clock tower, built in 1931, stands in Colwall Stone, and is locally known as \"Aunt Alice\".\n\nThe population of the parish was recorded in the 2011 census at 2,400 — compared to 2,433 in the 2001 census.\n\nMalvern water has formed a part of the national heritage and culture since Queen Elizabeth I made a point of drinking it in public in the 16th century, and Queen Victoria refused to travel without it. It was mentioned in 1622 in Bannister's \"Breviary of the Eyes:\" \n\nIt was first bottled on a commercial scale in 1851 and sold as Malvern Soda and then as Malvern Seltzer Water from 1856. In 1890, Schweppes entered into a contract with a Colwall family, and built a bottling plant in 1892. The actual source of the spring is on the western side of the hills in Herefordshire. The factory is now owned by Coca-Cola & Schweppes Beverages and employs 25 people who bottle 12 million litres annually.\n\n...\"The Malvern water says Dr John Wall is famous for containing just nothing at all\"...!\nIn 1987 Malvern gained recognition as a Natural Mineral Water, a mark of purity and quality. Malvern Water is the only bottled water used by Her Majesty, Queen Elizabeth II, which she takes on her travels around the world.\n\nOn 21 October 2010, Coca-Cola announced that Malvern Water would cease production and the Colwall plant would be sold off to property developers. Malvern Water was priced out of the market, with a market share of just 1%.\n\nColwall has a parish council.\n\nThe parishes of Bosbury, Coddington, Colwall, and Mathon together form the ward of Hope End, which returns one elected councillor to Herefordshire Council. The most recent election was in May 2015, in which the Conservative candidate, Tony Johnson, was elected. Councillor Johnson is the Leader of the Council.\n\nColwall is notable in cricket and has one of Herefordshire's main cricket grounds — Stowe Lane — which hosts a minor counties championship match and a minor counties knockout trophy match every year. In 1926 the Women's Cricket Association was founded in Colwall, and a Women's Cricket Week is held there every year. The Horton brothers Joseph and Henry, came from Colwall, and both played first-class cricket for Worcestershire; Henry went to greater fame with Hampshire.\n\nLegend has it that the Colwall Stone (which gave its name to the settlement of Colwall Stone that has grown around it) was rolled down from the Malvern Hills by a giant whose footprint can be seen to this day on the slopes of the British Camp. The stone was replaced at some point; it took a horse and cart to take the old one away.\n\n"}
{"id": "1905904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1905904", "title": "Panyo Panyo Di Gi Charat", "text": "Panyo Panyo Di Gi Charat\n\nWhile Princess Dejiko is reading a book, she realizes that she \"needs\" to help people all over the world. Dejiko takes Puchiko with her and tries to leave the castle, but Dejiko's tutor interrupts because it is her study time. Dejiko uses her laser eye beam and attempts to escape the castle numerous times, each time being thwarted by traps and gadgets set up by the tutor. Eventually, the duo are caught. A very petulant Dejiko stands her ground, and the tutor finally relents and lets Dejiko and Puchiko go outside the castle grounds, on the condition that they take Gema with them as a chaperon.\n\nIn the following episode the trio arrive at the popular Rinna's Cake Shop. The shop is closed, and people are in line in front of the shop, waiting patiently for it to open. Dejiko, Puchiko, and Gema forcibly enter the shop and find that the owner, Rinna, is asleep. Dejiko decides that she and her friends will make the cakes for Rinna while she is sleeping. Everything seems to be okay until the cakes fall in the oven. When Dejiko laments, Rinna suddenly awakens to make the cakes. As she bakes, she sings that the missing ingredient in Dejiko's cake recipe was love and the anticipation of seeing her customers' happy faces, which she calls \"baking powder of the heart.\" Confident again, Dejiko says that she will help Rinna make the day's cakes, but Rinna is asleep again. Later on, Rinna decides to close the cake shop to take an extended break and join Dejiko and her friends.\n\nA cat appears and jumps on Dejiko's head. A girl named Meek, appears in pursuit of the cat, but Dejiko mistakes Meek for the devil. Later, at a fish shop, where the group again runs into Meek, the cat appears and steals some fish. Meek, this time with the help of Dejiko and friends, tries again to catch the cat, but fails once more. When it appears that the cat is cornered, her kittens emerge from a hole in the wall. Meek finally realizes that the cat only wanted to feed its family and blithely decides to blame Dejiko and friends for stealing the fish. Meek joins the merry band not long after.\n\nPanyo Panyo was arranged into five-minute mini episodes. This was intended to make it feel like classic four panel manga. Panyo Panyo, however, did not have wide open endings like the original did.\n\nPanyo Panyo Di Gi Charat is licensed by ADV Films and is distributed in the United States by them. It is distributed in Australia by Madman Entertainment.\n\nDejiko - でじこ (also known as Di Gi Charat)\nThe princess of planet Di Gi Charat. After reading a book about a famous philanthropist, she made a vow to bring happiness to every person who lives on Di Gi Charat. In order to leave the castle, she had to promise her teacher that she would take Gema along as a chaperon. She wears a white hat shaped like cat ears, with a pair of gold bells on it. She ends her sentences with \"-nyo!\".\n\nPuchiko - ぷちこ (also known as Petit Charat)\nA young companion of Dejiko. She speaks very infrequently. Her cat ear-shaped hat is orange with brown stripes on it. She ends her sentences with \"-nyu\".\n\nMeek (Mike) - みけ\nMeek might be called a \"tomboy\", and also has a tendency to yell. She and Dejiko occasionally disagree. She apparently dislikes sea slugs. Meek lives with her parents at a fish shop, and ends her sentences with \"-mya\". Incidentally, her mother and father also end their sentences with \"-mya\".\n\nRinna - りんな\nRinna is the owner of her own cake shop. In episode 2, the townspeople claim that she makes the most delicious cakes on the planet; however, they have no idea when her shop will open, as Rinna has a tendency to fall asleep without warning. In a later episode, it is revealed that Rinna can run at an impossible speed; she does not usually do it because she \"doesn't like to run.\" Rinna ends her sentences with \"-myu\". Rinna also starred in \"Di Gi Charat Nyo!\".\nPiyoko - ぴよこ (also known as Pyocola Analogue III )\nA young girl who works for Deji Devil. Apparently, she is the leader of the Black Gema Gema Gang, despite being only six years old.\nShe addresses Deji Devil as \"Deji Devil-sama\" (\"Lord Deji Devil\"; in the dub, she refers to him as \"Boss\"), but according to her character profile, she has little actual respect for him. Dejiko and company do not treat her or Deji Devil as a threat, going so far as to refer to Piyoko as \"Piyoko-chan\" as if they were close friends. Piyoko ends her sentences with \"-pyo\".\n\nDeji Devil - デジデビル\nDeji Devil's mission is apparently \"to make everyone on Di Gi Charat unhappy\". Thus, his and Dejiko's quests are somewhat mutually exclusive. Aside from his wings and cape, his body has no substance, therefore he is able to pass through objects. He supposedly is afraid of ghosts. He ends his sentences with \"-devi\". In one of the final episodes, it is revealed the Deji Devil can transform into a large pink, flying, panda-like being referred to as \"The King of Demons\". In this \"King of Demons\" form, he is no more solid than he is ordinarily; however, he gains the ability to fire lasers from his mouth. According to him, he doesn't usually use this form because \"people might start to expect it\".\n\nGema - ゲマ\nGema is a perfectly round, floating, yellow creature who accompanies Dejiko everywhere as a chaperon. According to his character profile page, most of Gema's data is unknown (including what species he is). He bears a slight resemblance to Pac-Man; the most notable feature about him is his apparently upside down face.\n\n\nPanyo Panyo Di Gi Charat DVDs have been released in DVD format across 4 volumes. Each is named after the sound that the main characters use at the end of their sentences.\n\nA Panyo Panyo Di Gi Charat manga series was written by Hina, published by Shogakukan and was serialized in Ciao (magazine).\n\n"}
{"id": "1905908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1905908", "title": "Tiras", "text": "Tiras\n\nTiras was, according to and Chronicles 1, the last-named son of Japheth who is otherwise unmentioned in the Hebrew Bible. The name is sometimes associated by scholars with the Teresh or Tursha, one of the groups which made up the Sea Peoples, a naval confederacy which terrorized Egypt and other Mediterranean around 1200 BCE. These Sea People are referred to as \"Tursha\" in an inscription of Ramesses III, and as \"Teresh of the Sea\" on the Merneptah Stele.\n\nSome other scholars associate Tiras with Thrace or the Etruscans. In 1838, the German scholar Johann Christian Friedrich Tuch suggested identifying Tiras with the Etruscans — who, according to Greek and Roman sources such as Herodotus (I, 94), had been living in Lydia as the Tyrsenoi before emigrating to Italy as early as the 8th century BC.\n\nAccording to the \"Book of Jubilees\", the inheritance of Tiras consisted of four large islands in the ocean.\n\nJosephus wrote that Tiras became ancestor of the \"Thirasians\" (Thracians) — a \"flame-haired\" (red or blond haired) people  according to Xenophanes (\"Antiquities of the Jews\", I, 6). \"Tiras\" or \"Tyras\" in antiquity was also the name of the Dniester river, and of a Greek colony situated near its mouth; the native inhabitants of the surrounding region Tyragetae. The Getae were one of the major components of the Thracians (Herodotus 4.93, 5.3), who the Greeks held to descend from the eponymous Thrax.\n\nThe Greek geographer and philosopher Strabo (63 BC – AD 24) enumerated twenty-two ethnical groups in all the Thrace. \"Histories\" of Herodotus noticed Crobyzian Thracians (Hist. IV, 49), the Dolonci (VI, 34), the \"Brygi a tribe of Thracians” (VI, 45), the Sinties of Lemnos (VII, 45), and others placed in the Nestus and Strymin Valley (VII, 110): Paeti, Cicones, Bistones, Sapaei, Dersaei, Edoni, and Satrae.\n\nMovses Khorenatsi, 5th century Armenian historian, attributed the founder of Armenian nation, Hayk, to being a grandson of Tiras.\nAccording to tractate Yoma, in the Talmud, Tiras is the ancestor of Persia.\nThe Persian historian Muhammad ibn Jarir al-Tabari (c. 915) recounts a tradition that Tiras had a son named Batawil, whose daughters Qarnabil, Bakht, and Arsal became the wives of Cush, Put, and Canaan, respectively.\n\nThe mediaeval Hebrew compilation, the \"Chronicles of Jerahmeel\", aside from quoting \"Yosippon\" as above, also provides a separate tradition of Tiras' sons elsewhere, naming them as \"Maakh, Tabel, Bal’anah, Shampla, Meah\", and \"Elash\". This material was ultimately derived from Pseudo-Philo (ca. 75 AD), extant copies of which list Tiras' sons as \"Maac, Tabel, Ballana, Samplameac\", and \"Elaz\".\n\nAnother medieval rabbinic text \"Book of Jasher\" (7:9) records the sons of Tiras as \"Benib, Gera, Lupirion\", and \"Gilak\", and in 10:14, it asserts that \"Rushash, Cushni\", and \"Ongolis\" are among his descendants. An earlier (950 AD) rabbinic compilation, the \"Yosippon\", similarly claims Tiras' descendants to be the \"Rossi\" of \"Kiv\", i.e. Kievan Rus, listing them together with his brother Meshech's supposed descendants as \"the Rossi; the Saqsni and the Iglesusi\".\n\nEnglish theologian John Gill (1697-1771) about Tiras affirmed that \"[interpreted] better the Targums of Jonathan and Jerusalem, and so a Jewish chronologer, by Thracia; for the descendants of Thiras, as Josephus observes, the Greeks call Thracians; and in Thrace was a river called Atyras, which has in it a trace of this man's name; and Odrysus, whom the Thracians worshipped, is the same with Tiras, which god sometimes goes by the name of Thuras; and is one of the names of Mars, the god of the Thracians.\".\n\nTiras was also worshipped by his descendants as Thuras (Thor), the god of war, while the river Athyras was also named after him, and the ancient city of Troy (Troi, Troia, the Trojans) perpetuates his name, as also does the Taurus mountain range.\n\nBy virtue of Greek documents, the descendants of Tiras has been identified with the \"Thyrsenoi\", \"who raided throughout the Aegean sea\"; and by \"Tursha\" (\"Turusha\" or \"Teresh\") by Egyptian records at the time of pharaons Merneptah and Ramses II. There exist also a possible concern with the Hittite language \"Taruisa\", old city of Troy.\n"}
{"id": "1905911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1905911", "title": "Alasdair Roberts (musician)", "text": "Alasdair Roberts (musician)\n\nAlasdair Roberts (born 8 August 1977) is a Scottish folk musician. He released a number of albums under the name Appendix Out and, following the 2001 album \"The Night Is Advancing\", under his own name. Roberts is also known for his frequent collaborations with other musicians and writers, as well as for being a member of the folk supergroup The Furrow Collective.\n\nRoberts was born in Swabia, Germany, the son of former folk guitarist (and partner of Dougie MacLean) Alan Roberts (1946–2001) and his German wife Annegret. He has two sisters. He was raised in Kilmahog, a hamlet close to the small town of Callander, near Stirling in central Scotland, where he started playing the guitar and writing music. He has long been based in Glasgow.\n\nIn 1994 Alasdair Roberts formed Appendix Out with school friends Dave Elcock and Kenny McBride and started playing small venues. Roberts was also a classmate of Ladytron's Helen Marnie. While attending a Will Oldham concert in 1995, he offered a demo tape to the American singer, and a contract with US label Drag City soon followed. The band's first release was a double A-side single, \"Pissed With You/Ice Age\", and the band released its first album around a year later.\n\nBetween 1997 and 2001, Appendix Out released three albums, two EPs and some limited-edition recordings that were never widely distributed. They recorded a session for John Peel's BBC radio show in 2001. The line up of the band changed frequently, with Roberts the only constant member.\n\nAfter three full-length albums with Appendix Out, Roberts recorded his first solo album, \"The Crook of My Arm\". This album consisted almost entirely of solo vocals and guitar in marked contrast to the occasionally experimental sound of the Appendix Out records. All the songs are traditional, and Roberts credited the singers from whose performances he'd learnt the songs (these included his father, Alan Roberts, and Alan's sometime musical partner, Dougie MacLean).\n\nSince then, Roberts has released two further albums of traditional folk songs - \"No Earthly Man\" and \"Too Long in This Condition\" - plus three albums of original songs: \"Farewell Sorrow\", \"The Amber Gatherers\" and \"Spoils\". A fourth, \"A Wonder Working Stone\", was released in January 2013, credited to Alasdair Roberts and Friends, a group of musicians which includes among others Stevie Jones, Rafe Fitzpatrick, Olivia Chaney and Alex Neilson. In 2015 Roberts released a self-titled album, a return to relative sparseness of earlier albums, and in 2017 \"Pangs\", which was again a more collaborative album, featuring musicians with whom Roberts has previously worked - Stevie Jones, Tom Crossley and Alex Neilson - and backing vocals from Debbie Armour.\n\nEach album has a distinct character, and Roberts songwriting has shifted in recent years from the relative economy of \"Farewell Sorrow\" and \"The Amber Gatherers\" to a much denser wordplay, filled with allusions to mythology, esoteric spirituality and gnosticism, on \"Spoils\" and other recent releases.\n\nIn 2012, musician Steve Adey covered \"Farewell Sorrow\" on his \"The Tower of Silence\" album.\n\nRoberts is quoted as saying \"Collaboration is extremely important to me. I reiterate – extremely\". His collaborations have taken many forms.\n\nA large number of musicians have played with Alasdair Roberts when recording or performing under his own name. These include: \n\n\n\nRoberts has contributed to the following:\n\n\n\nRoberts has contributed performances and recordings exclusive to the following releases\n\n"}
{"id": "1905913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1905913", "title": "Traun (river)", "text": "Traun (river)\n\nTraun () is a river in the Austrian state of Upper Austria. Its source is in the Totes Gebirge mountain range in Styria. It flows through the Salzkammergut area and the lakes Hallstätter See and Traunsee. The Traun is a right tributary of the Danube, which it meets near the city of Linz. Other towns along the river are Bad Aussee, Bad Ischl, Gmunden, Wels and Traun.\n\nUntil the late 19th century, it was only possible to reach Hallstatt (at the Hallstätter See) by boat or via narrow trails. However, this secluded and inhospitable landscape nevertheless counts as one of the first places of human settlement due to the rich sources of natural salt, which was mined for thousands of years, originally in the shape of hearts. Some of Hallstatt's oldest archaeological finds, such as a shoe-last celt – a long thin stone tool used to fell trees and to work wood – date back to around 5000 B.C. One of the first blacksmith's sites was excavated there. Active trade and thus wealth allowed for the development of a highly sophisticated society, hence the term Hallstatt culture. In 1846, a large prehistoric cemetery was discovered close by the current location of Hallstatt. There is little room for cemeteries so every ten years bones used to be exhumed and removed into an ossuary to make room for new burials. A collection of elaborately decorated skulls with the owners' names, professions, death dates inscribed on them is on display at the local chapel.\n"}
{"id": "1905914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1905914", "title": "The Informers", "text": "The Informers\n\nThe Informers is a collection of short stories, linked by the same continuity, written by American author Bret Easton Ellis. The collection was first published as a whole in 1994. Chapters 6 and 7, \"Water from the Sun\" and \"Discovering Japan\", were published separately in the UK by Picador in 2007. The stories display attributes similar to Ellis's novels \"Less Than Zero\", \"The Rules of Attraction\", and, to a lesser extent, \"American Psycho\". Like many of Ellis's novels, the stories are set predominantly in California.\n\nA film version of the book has been produced from a script by Ellis and Nicholas Jarecki and was screened at the 2009 Sundance film festival. It was directed by Gregor Jordan and featured an ensemble cast, such as Winona Ryder, Billy Bob Thornton, Mickey Rourke, Amber Heard and Kim Basinger. It was Brad Renfro's last film before his death.\n\nReviewing the book for \"The New York Times\", Michiko Kakutani wrote that Ellis had written \"a novel that is as cynical, shallow and stupid as the people it depicts.\" By contrast, in the London \"Evening Standard\", Will Self said that \"The Informers shows the work of a writer at the peak of his powers, deeply concerned with the moral decline of our society.\"\n\nIn 2009, Audible.com produced an audio version of \"The Informers\", narrated by Christian Rummel and Therese Plummer, as part of its \"Modern Vanguard\" line of audiobooks.\n"}
{"id": "1905918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1905918", "title": "Jodie Kidd", "text": "Jodie Kidd\n\nJodie Elizabeth Kidd (born in Guildford) is an English fashion model, racing driver, and television personality.\n\nKidd was born in 1978, the daughter of the businessman and former showjumper Johnny Kidd. One of Kidd's maternal great-grandfathers was the Canadian press baron Max Aitken, 1st Baron Beaverbrook. Kidd's mother, Wendy Madeleine Kidd (née Hodge), is one of the three daughters of Sir John Rowland Hodge, 2nd Baronet, and runs the Holders Festival on Barbados. Kidd's aunt is the model Vicki Hodge.\n\nJodie was a showjumper as a child and attended St Michael's School, Burton Park, Petworth, West Sussex. Kidd has two siblings. Her elder sister, Jemma Kidd (born 1974), married Arthur Wellesley, Earl of Mornington, son of the current Duke of Wellington, in June 2005. Kidd's brother, Jack Kidd (born 1973) is a polo player. Kidd also has a half brother, the entrepreneur Nick D'Arcy Whiting (born 1962) and a half sister Debbie Parris (born 1964).\n\nKidd was 15 when she was discovered by photographer Terry O'Neil on a beach in Barbados. Her modelling career began when he introduced her to model agent Laraine Ashton. When Kidd began modelling at 16 there was an uproar – accusations were made that promotion of her slender figure encouraged teenage girls to become anorexic when they tried to mimic her looks. Her skeletal figure led to accusations, because she is tall 185 cm (6 ft 1) and at the time her weight was (BMI of 13.6; WHO class at 16 years, \"severe thinness\") and a German magazine called her \"locuste model\", sometimes referred to as \"heroin chic\". However, following an eight-month break in modelling, Kidd increased weight to become a Size 14 dress size.\n\nKidd modelled with the leading models from Capellino, Chanel, Ernesto Esposito, Fendissime, Gai Mattiolo, Ghost, Lagerfeld, Malhas, Monsoon, and Motorola and also featured in campaigns for Chloé 'Innocence' perfume and Yves Saint Laurent. She also appeared on the cover of \"Elle\" magazine in Australia, Italy, Portugal, Singapore, Sweden and the United States and made appearances on \"The Face\" and \"Comme des Garçons\".\n\nIn 2014, Kidd was the face of Jaeger's AW/14 campaign. She was one of three iconic British models who were photographed with their mothers, alongside Jasmine Guinness and Kirsty Hume.\n\nShe drove a Maserati and became known for completing the fastest Celebrity Lap in the Suzuki Liana on the \"Top Gear\" car show (Series 2 Episode 8 : 6 July 2003). She was later overtaken by Simon Cowell (Series 3 Episode 5 : 9 November 2003) and is now ranked 11th fastest. \n\nOn 4 December 2004, Kidd and her co-driver, Fabio Babini, took first place in Bologna, Italy at a Maserati Trofeo Pro-Am event. It was only Kidd's third race. She has also taken part in several rallies of the Gumball 3000.\n\nKidd's career as a television personality has included participation on \"Strictly Come Dancing\" 2008, in which she partnered with professional dancer Ian Waite; they finished in sixth place, and Kidd left the show in a \"dance-off\" against former model and television presenter Lisa Snowdon. In 2014, Kidd was a finalist in the BBC's annual cookery programme \"Celebrity Masterchef\"; she lost the championship to actor Sophie Thompson. In 2015 she appeared in series 2 of \"The Jump\", where she was sixth to be eliminated. In 2015 Kidd appeared as one of the hosts of the Channel 5 automotive show \"The Classic Car Show\" with co-host Quentin Willson.\n\nIn the summer of 2015, Kidd was tipped to become Chris Evans's co-host on the revamped Top Gear following Jeremy Clarkson's exit. However she ruled herself out of the job stating that she wanted some time out of the limelight. Kidd also appeared with her son Indio on the fifth series of Big Star's Little Star where they won £9,000 for charity.\n\nKidd formed part of the ITV4 presenter line up for the Isle of Man TT coverage of 2018.\n\nKidd and her father are producers of the musical \"Yarico\", a tale of romance and slavery in Barbados, based on the 17th-century operetta \"Yarico and Inkle\".\n\nKidd's other hobbies include polo, golf and horse riding.\n\nFollowing a year long romance and engagement, Kidd married Internet entrepreneur Aidan Butler on 10 September 2005 at St Peter's Church, Twineham, West Sussex. The couple split up after 18 months of marriage.\n\nKidd's son by her partner Andrea Vianini, an Argentinian polo player, was born on 5 September 2011. Kidd and Vianini split in the summer of 2013. Kidd subsequently married David Blakeley. The couple split in January 2015, after four months of marriage. \n\n"}
{"id": "1905931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1905931", "title": "Common-mode rejection ratio", "text": "Common-mode rejection ratio\n\nIn electronics, the common mode rejection ratio (CMRR) of a differential amplifier (or other device) is a metric used to quantify the ability of the device to reject common-mode signals, i.e. those that appear simultaneously and in-phase on both inputs. An ideal differential amplifier would have infinite CMRR, however this is not achievable in practice. A high CMRR is required when a differential signal must be amplified in the presence of a possibly large common-mode input, such as strong electromagnetic interference (EMI). An example is audio transmission over balanced line in sound reinforcement or recording.\n\nIdeally, a differential amplifier takes the voltages, formula_1 and formula_2 on its two inputs and produces an output voltage formula_3, where formula_4 is the differential gain. However, the output of a real differential amplifier is better described as\nwhere formula_6 is the common-\"mode gain\", which is typically much smaller than the differential gain.\n\nThe CMRR is defined as the ratio of the powers of the differential gain over the common-mode gain, measured in positive decibels (thus using the 20 log rule):\n\nAs differential gain should exceed common-mode gain, this will be a positive number, and the higher the better.\n\nThe CMRR is a very important specification, as it indicates how much of the common-mode signal will appear in your measurement. The value of the CMRR often depends on signal frequency as well, and must be specified as a function thereof.\n\nIt is often important in reducing noise on transmission lines. For example, when measuring the resistance of a thermocouple in a noisy environment, the noise from the environment appears as an offset on both input leads, making it a common-mode voltage signal. The CMRR of the measurement instrument determines the attenuation applied to the offset or noise.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1905937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1905937", "title": "Eduard Zirm", "text": "Eduard Zirm\n\nEduard Konrad Zirm (18 March 1863 – 15 March 1944) was an ophthalmologist who performed the first successful human full-thickness corneal transplant on 7 December 1905.\n\nZirm was born in Vienna, he studied medicine at the University of Vienna, and ophthalmology at the Eye Clinic there. After graduation, Zirm became an eye doctor at the Second Eye Clinic in Vienna, then accepted a position at a hospital in Olomouc, Moravia, in 1892. There he became chief of the new ophthalmology clinic that he helped establish.\n\nHuman corneal transplantation (keratoplasty) had been attempted with little or no success throughout the 1800s using both animal donor cornea and human graft tissue. The donor tissue whether animal or human could either be transplanted as a full-thickness disc of cornea or partial-thickness (layers or lamellae) cornea was attached to the host eye. By the late 1880s lamellar grafts were considered to have a better chance of success than full-thickness corneal grafting which invariably failed a few days after the operation.\n\nIn 1905, Zirm encountered a patient Alois Glogar, a 45-year-old day farm labourer from a small town in the Czech Republic whose corneas in both eyes had tuned white-bray and opaque a year earlier while working with slaking lime. Around the same time he examined Glogar, an 11-year-old boy named Karl Brauer was brought to Zirm's clinic with penetrating eye-injury to both eyes and iron metal foreign bodies irretrievably lodged in his eyes. When attempts to save Brauer's eyes were unsuccessful, Zirm, with the boy's father's permission enucleated them and saved the corneas for transplantation into Glogar's. Although complications affected one eye, the other remained clear allowing Glogar to return to work.\n\nThe operation and the consequent healing processes were difficult at that time because without a microscope and microsurgical instruments it was impossible to suture the donor cornea to the host tissue. Therefore, Zirm successfully sutured the conjunctival tissue over the graft-host junction. During the twentieth century, parallel advances in microscopy, microsurgical instrumentation anaesthesia and asepsis have led to the increasing success of keratoplasty. Zirm 's method remains the basis for repairing corneal damage.\n\nZirm played the violin and in his limited spare time studied natural philosophy.\n\nHis 1937 publication of \"Die Welt als Fühlen\" discussed ideas now called emotional intelligence for the first time. He also wrote many poems and stories.\n\nZimr died in 1944 in Olomouc, Protectorate of Bohemia and Moravia.\n\nAt the jubilee lecture relative to corneal transplant, Prof. Böck, the long-time head of the Second Ophthalmology Department at the University in Vienna said:\n\nIn 2006, in a review of Zirm's landmark paper on his first successful full thickness corneal transplant, three English ophthalmologists concluded in the British Journal of Ophthalmology:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1905943", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1905943", "title": "Lake Tuz", "text": "Lake Tuz\n\nLake Tuz ( meaning 'Salt Lake'; anciently Tatta - (, )) is the second largest lake in Turkey with its \nsurface area and one of the largest hypersaline lakes in the world. It is located in the Central Anatolia Region, northeast of Konya, south-southeast of Ankara and northwest of Aksaray.\n\nThe lake, occupying a tectonic depression in the central plateau of Turkey, is fed by two major streams, groundwater, and surface water, but has no outlet. Brackish marshes have formed where channels and streams enter the lake. Arable fields surround the lake, except in the south and southwest where extensive seasonally flooded salt-steppe occurs.\n\nFor most of the year, it is very shallow (approx.). During winter part of the salt is dissolved in the fresh water that is introduced to the lake by precipitation and surface runoff (to 324‰ salinity). During the summer the lake dries up exposing an average of 30 cm thick salt layer in August. This mechanism is used as a basis for the process of the salt mines in the lake. The three mines operating in the lake produce 63% of the salt consumed in Turkey. The salt mining generates industrial activity in the region, mainly related to salt processing and refining.\n\nIn 2001, Lake Tuz was declared a specially protected area, including all of the lake surface and surrounding waterbeds and some of the important neighboring steppe areas. The main Turkish breeding colony of greater flamingo (\"Phoenicopterus roseus\") is present on a group of islands in the southern part of the lake. Greater white-fronted goose (\"Anser albifrons\") is the second largest breeder here. Lesser kestrel (\"Falco naumanni\") is a common breeder in surrounding villages.\n\nAnciently, the lake was called Tatta, and was located on the frontiers between ancient Lycaonia and Galatia; it had originally belonged to Phrygia, but was afterwards annexed to Lycaonia. The ancients reported that its waters were so impregnated with brine, that any substance dipped into it, was immediately encrusted with a thick coat of salt; even birds flying near the surface had their wings moistened with the saline particles, so as to become incapable of rising into the air, and to be easily caught. Stephanus of Byzantium speaks of a salt lake in Phrygia, which he calls Attaea (Ἄτταια), near which there was a town called Botieum, and which is probably the same as Lake Tatta. \n\n"}
{"id": "1905946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1905946", "title": "Growlanser", "text": "Growlanser\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1905959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1905959", "title": "NASDAQ Biotechnology Index", "text": "NASDAQ Biotechnology Index\n\nThe NASDAQ Biotechnology Index is a stock market index made up of securities of NASDAQ-listed companies classified according to the Industry Classification Benchmark as either the Biotechnology or the Pharmaceutical industry. A list of the 213 components of the index is published online.\n\nIn order to remain included within the index, the components must meet the following criteria:\n\nThis index is tracked by several exchange-traded funds, the most liquid of which is the iShares Nasdaq Biotechnology ().\n\n"}
{"id": "1905964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1905964", "title": "Corbinian", "text": "Corbinian\n\nSaint Corbinian (; ; ; 670 – 8 September c. 730 AD) was a Frankish bishop. After living as a hermit near Chartres for fourteen years, he made a pilgrimage to Rome. Pope Gregory II sent him to Bavaria. His opposition to the marriage of Duke Grimoald to his brother's widow, Biltrudis, caused Corbinian to go into exile for a time. His feast day is 8 September. The commemoration of the translation of his relics is 20 November.\n\nCorbinian was born and baptized as Waldegiso at Châtres, near Melun, in Frankish territory. He was named after his father, who may have died when Corbinian was an infant. Soon after his father's death, his mother Corbiniana renamed Waldegiso to \"Corbinian,\" after herself. Nothing else is known of his childhood. The early source for Corbinian's life is the \"Vita Corbiniani\" of Bishop Arbeo of Freising.\n\nHe lived in Châtres on the road to Orléans as a hermit for fourteen years, near a church dedicated to Saint Germain. His reputation attracted students to him, which distracted him from his hermitage. His devotion to Saint Peter the Apostle prompted a decision to make a journey to Rome, accompanied by some of the disciples. While in Rome, Pope Gregory II admonished him to use his talents to evangelize Bavaria. Corbinian, who may already have been a bishop or who was so consecrated by Gregory, was sent to minister to Grimoald, the Frankish Duke of Bavaria. Corbinian probably arrived in Bavaria in 724.\n\nOn a mountain near Freising, where there was already a sanctuary, the saint erected a Benedictine monastery and a school, which came to be governed by his brother Erembert, after his death. In 738, when Saint Boniface regulated the ecclesial structure in the Duchy of Bavaria by creating four dioceses to be governed by the archbishop of Mainz, Erembert was chosen first Bishop of Freising.\n\nSoon after settling, Corbinian denounced Grimoald's marriage to his brother's widow, Biltrudis, though Grimoald had already repented of his incest. This incited his anger and the chagrin of his wife, who excoriated Corbinian, labeling him a foreign interloper. Finally, she arranged to have him murdered. Corbinian fled Freising until Grimoald was killed and Biltrudis carried off by invaders in 725. Corbinian returned on the invitation of Grimoald's successor, Huebert, and continued his apostolic labors at Freising until his own death in 730.\n\nCorbinian's body, buried at Merano, was translated to Freising in 769 by the aforementioned Bishop Arbeo, author of Corbinian's \"vita\", and is now entombed in Freising Cathedral.\n\nCorbinian's symbol is the saddled bear. According to his hagiography, a bear killed Corbinian's pack horse on the way to Rome and so the saint commanded it to carry his load. Once he arrived in Rome, however, he let the bear go, and it lumbered back to its native forest. Both the heraldic element and the legend itself carry significant symbolism. One interpretation is that the bear tamed by God's grace is the Bishop of Freising himself and the pack saddle is the burden of his episcopate. The bear's submission and retreat can also be interpreted as Christianity's \"taming\" and \"domestication\" of the ferocity of paganism and, consequentially, the laying of a \"[foundation] for a great civilization in the Duchy of Bavaria.\"\n\nCorbinian's Bear is used as the symbol of Freising in both civic and ecclesiastical heraldry. It appeared on the arms of Pope Benedict XVI, who first adopted the symbol when, still known as Joseph Ratzinger, he was appointed Archbishop of Freising-Munich in March 1977. He retained the bear in his revised coat of arms when he was elevated to Cardinal in June of the same year, and again on his papal coat of arms when he was elected in 2005.\n\nThe scallop shell is a traditional reference to pilgrimage. For Pope Benedict XVI, it also reminded him of the legend according to which one day St. Augustine, pondering the mystery of the Trinity, saw a child at the seashore playing with a shell, trying to put the water of the ocean into a little hole. Then he heard the words: This hole can no more contain the waters of the ocean than your intellect can comprehend the mystery of God. The crowned Moor is a regional motif in heraldry often seen in Bavaria, Benedict's German homeland. Benedict has been quoted saying that, in addition to the obvious reference back to Saint Corbinian, the founder of the diocese where Benedict would become bishop in 1977, the bear represents Benedict himself being \"tamed by God\" to bear the spiritual burdens of Benedict's own ministries first as bishop, then as cardinal, and now as pope.\n\nScenes from the life of Saint Corbinian from a panel in the crypt of Freising Cathedral.\n\n"}
{"id": "1905976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1905976", "title": "Pacific Fruit Express", "text": "Pacific Fruit Express\n\nPacific Fruit Express was an American railroad refrigerator car leasing company that at one point was the largest refrigerator car operator in the world.\n\nThe company was founded on December 7, 1906 as a joint venture between the Union Pacific and Southern Pacific railroads. It began operation on October 1, 1907, with a fleet of 6,600 refrigerator cars built by the American Car and Foundry Company (ACF).\n\nIn 1923, the Western Pacific Railroad joined the venture by leasing its own new fleet of 2775 reefers to PFE. They were painted in standard PFE colors with only WP heralds on the cars instead of the paired UP-SP markings. The WP cars were all retired by the late 1950s, among the last wooden reefers in PFE's fleet. WP ended its partnership with PFE in late 1967 and joined Fruit Growers Express instead.\n\nPFE's assets were divided between the UP and SP when the company was split on April 1, 1978. It is now a UP subsidiary.\n\nPacific Fruit Express Roster, 1907–1970:\n\nModern cars owned by PFE typically carried both UP and SP heralds and either \"Union Pacific Fruit Express\" or \"Southern Pacific Fruit Express\". The reporting marks were UPFE for cars operated by Union Pacific or SPFE for cars operated by Southern Pacific.\n\nPFE's impact is still seen in Roseville, California, site of a major Union Pacific classification yard, where there is a road named \"PFE Road\".\nThere are a pair of PFE tracks in the Union Pacific Albina Yard in Portland, Oregon\n\nThere is PFE Track in Tucson Yard Tucson,Az.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1905982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1905982", "title": "Tambalane", "text": "Tambalane\n\nTambalane were an Australian pop rock band formed as a side-project late in 2003 by Ben Gillies (Silverchair) on drums and backing vocals, and Wes Carr on lead vocals and lead guitar. During 2004 they were joined by Greg Royal on bass guitar and Gerard Masters on keyboards. In August 2005 they released their debut self-titled album which provided the singles, \"Little Miss Liar\" (June) and \"Free\" (August). They disbanded late that year as Silverchair prepared to record their next album, \"Young Modern\". In November 2008 Carr won the sixth season of \"Australian Idol\".\n\nTambalane were formed late in 2003 in Sydney by Ben Gillies (Silverchair) on drums and backing vocals, and Wes Carr on lead vocals and lead guitar. In June that year Silverchair had announced an extended hiatus after touring in support the previous year's album, \"Diorama\". The pair met in a local pub where Carr was performing solo after being introduced by Silverchair's manager, John Watson. They started as a songwriting project for Gillies, aside from his work with Silverchair, and Carr, who issued a solo folk rock extended play, \"Rhythm to Fly\", in November. In 2005 Gillies remembered \"Wes and I wrote a couple of tracks that first day to test the water ... Next thing you know we went into overdrive – it wasn't long before we had 30 or 40 songs\".\n\nIn 2004 Tambalane began performing as a band, Carr and Gillies were soon joined by Greg Royal on bass guitar and Gerard Masters on keyboards. They signed with Watson's label . Their sound was influenced by The Beatles and Led Zeppelin. Early in 2005 they issued their debut single, \"Little Miss Liar\" and toured Australia supporting End of Fashion. In June they released an EP, \"Free\", which had been recorded at Megaphon Studio, Sydney with Phil McKellar (Silverchair) producing.\n\nIt was followed, on 21 August 2005, by their debut self-titled album, co-produced by McKellar and Gillies. For the studio sessions additional guitars were supplied by Steve Edmonds and Ben Nightingale. Mess+Noise website's Ben Gook warned Silverchair fans that \"[t]hose hoping for a Silverchair Jr would be disappointed ... Over produced, under written and deceptively bland ... manages to fall in some awkward place between half-arsed and over-reaching\". \nFaster Louder's reviewer observed it was \"so sugar-coated, you feel the cavities appearing track by track ... lyrics on the album, seemingly peeled straight from a motivational poster, those annoying sayings that are plastered over high school classroom walls\".\n\nIn September Tambalane undertook a national tour to promote the album. Gillies told The Dwarf website that he looked forward to \"[p]laying with Tambalane in small venues and really getting back to my grass roots is extremely fun\". Faster Louder's Yasmin Wilding reviewed their mid-September gig at The Yallah Roadhouse, \"[Carr]'s got one of the best live rock voices I've heard in a long time ... Gillies ... is an exceptional drummer ... [able] to keep ... the crowd bopping ... I've never seen a keyboardist groove as much as [Masters] ... He and bass player [Royal] gave us impressive solos during the set, proving the worth and versatility of their instruments ... Together, Tambalane were an unstoppable force of entertainment, bustin' out massive tunes\".\n\nBy November 2005 Tambalane had disbanded with Gillies returning to Silverchair and preparing for their next album, \"Young Modern\". Carr resumed his solo career. Gillies stated that \"It became an unpleasant power struggle\" within Tambalane. In November 2008 Carr won the sixth season of \"Australian Idol\". In May 2011 Silverchair announced an \"indefinite hibernation\", in the following month Gillies was working on a new album but denied that any new project would be similar to Tambalane.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1905998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1905998", "title": "Harry Gray", "text": "Harry Gray\n\nHarry Gray may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1906000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906000", "title": "Arthur Morgan (Irish politician)", "text": "Arthur Morgan (Irish politician)\n\nArthur Morgan (born 23 July 1954) is an Irish former Sinn Féin politician. He was a Teachta Dála (TD) for the Louth constituency from 2002 to 2011.\n\nMorgan was born in Omeath in County Louth. Educated locally, he joined the small family fish-processing company, where he became a director. He is a founding member of Cooley Environmental and Health Action Committee which campaigns against Sellafield nuclear power station.\n\nMorgan is a former Provisional Irish Republican Army prisoner. He was sentenced to 14 years in jail after being arrested on a boat on Carlingford Lough during an operation in 1977. He served seven and a half years at Long Kesh prison, where he participated in the blanket protest, before being released in 1984.\n\nHe was an unsuccessful Dáil candidate at the 1987 and 1989 general elections. At the 1999 European Parliament election Morgan polled over 20,000 votes in the Leinster constituency but failed to be elected. He was elected to Louth County Council on the same day for the Dundalk/Carlingford area. At the 2002 general election he was elected to Dáil Éireann as a Sinn Féin TD and retained his seat at the 2007 general election.\n\nIn a Dáil debate on the budget on 6 March 2008, Morgan launched a strong attack on the government's economic policy, saying that \"There is more social conscience in a cat's arse than there is in the entire Fianna Fáil parliamentary party.\" Condemning a Government proposal to give tax breaks for the development of private hospices, he asked \"Why would I expect any different from a Tánaiste and a Government over this partial Parliament in this little semi-statelet over which he is presiding?\". Deputy Michael Finneran responded by saying that \"if it was not for him and his fellow travellers we would have had considerably more money to invest in many projects over the years instead of needing to spend it on security to protect the State.\"\n\nOn 9 November 2010, he announced that he would not be contesting the 2011 general election.\n\n \n"}
{"id": "1906002", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906002", "title": "Prospect Park, Reading", "text": "Prospect Park, Reading\n\nProspect Park is a public park in the western suburbs of Reading situated north of the Bath Road in the English county of Berkshire. It is the largest and most popular park in Reading, and includes a large regency style house, now known as Prospect Park Mansion House and previously as Prospect House. There are also sporting facilities and a miniature railway within the of parkland, and a restaurant in the Mansion House.\n\nThe park is listed as Grade II in the English Heritage Register of Historic Parks and Gardens whilst the Mansion House is a Grade II listed building.\n\nOriginally the site of Dirle's Farm, the land was part of the Calcot Park estate. By the middle of the 18th century, Calcot Park was the home of Frances Kendrick and her husband Benjamin Child, but after Frances's death Benjamin sold the bulk of the estate to John Blagrave, keeping only the eastern part that is now Prospect Park. In the 1760s, Benjamin turned the farmhouse of Dirle's Farm into a mansion. He named the park after its views over Reading; it was formerly known as Prospecthill Park.\n\nThe present regency style house, known as The Mansion House (and originally named Prospect House), was built by John Liebenrood in the late 18th century. John Engelberts Liebenrood (1754-1821) was born in Germany in 1754. His birth name was John Engelberts Ziegenbein and he immigrated to England and obtained naturalisation in 1781. He lived with his great uncle John George Liebenrood, a very wealthy merchant in Purley. When his uncle died in 1795 he inherited his fortune and in accordance with the will changed his name to Liebenrood. In the following year he married Lucy Hancock whose brother was Rear Admiral John Hancock.\n\nSoon after his marriage John commissioned James Wright Sanderson, a pupil of James Wyatt to substantially remodel and enlarge a smaller existing building. The newspapers show that he and his wife Lucy were living in their new home by 1797. John became High Sheriff of Berkshire in 1806. Lucy was known to be a benefactor of the poor. He died in 1821 and Lucy continued to live at Prospect House until her death in 1829. They are both buried in St Mary's Church Purley.\n\nTheir son George and daughter Lucy inherited the property but they did not live there. Instead it was rented for many years to William Stephens (1783-1856) who at one time was the Mayor of Reading. He died in 1856 and it was then rented by William Banbury (1813-1893) who was a banker in the firm Fuller Banbury and Co of London. He was also an art collector and when he moved from Prospect Park in 1880 a sale of some of his paintings was held by Christie's at the House.\n\nGeorge and Lucy Liebenrood did not have any children so when they died Prospect Park was inherited by their cousin Captain John Hancock. He changed his name to Liebenrood in 1865 as a condition of the inheritance. John was born in 1813 Prince Edward Island in Canada. His father was Rear Admiral John Hancock. In 1847 he married Eliza Cambridge (1818-1888) the daughter of Lemuel Cambridge, a shipowner of Canada. He entered the navy in 1827 and spent 35 years in the naval service rising to the rank of Captain. He died in 1883 and his wife Elizabeth died in 1888. Both are buried in the Church of St Michael, Tilehurst.\n\nTheir son Major George Engelberts Liebenrood (1847-1928) inherited the house after Elizabeth's death. George was born in 1847 on Prince Edward Island, Canada. At the age of 18 he went to the Royal Military College, Sandhurst. He had a distinguished military career and rose to the rank of Major. In 1881 he married Winifred Markham (1858 -1930), the daughter of Arthur Bayley Markham of Glendon. The couple lived at Prospect Park for about fourteen years and then in 1902 they sold it to the Reading Borough Council.\n\nAfter a long period of dereliction, the Mansion House in the centre of the park has been restored and now houses a Harvester restaurant.\n\nThe area surrounding the Mansion House has broad sweeps of short cut grass, with areas of meadow grassland. A pond lies to the south of the house and attracts an assortment of wildlife, while 'The Rookery' can be found to the north - a mature oak woodland and Wildlife Heritage Site. In the south-eastern corner of the park, the Reading Society of Model Engineers runs a miniature railway, which is open to the public on certain days.\n\nThe park has facilities for a number of sports, including rugby, tennis, bowls, basketball, and table tennis. It also hosts a weekly parkrun, held over a distance of every Saturday at 9:00 am.\n\nThe first race in the Hampshire League Cross Country series in 2013 was held in the park. Other races in the park have included The Color Run and Cancer Research UK's Race for Life.\n\n"}
{"id": "1906005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906005", "title": "Women's health in China", "text": "Women's health in China\n\nWomen’s health in China refers to the health of women in People’s Republic of China (PRC), which is different from men’s health in China in many ways. Health, in general, is defined in the World Health Organization (WHO) constitution as “a state of complete physical, mental, and social well being and not merely the absence of disease or infirmity\". The circumstance of Chinese women’s health is highly contingent upon China’s historical contexts and economic development during the past seven decades. A historical perspective on women's health in China entails examining the healthcare policies and its outcomes for women in the pre-reform period (1949-1978) and the post-reform period since 1978.\n\nIn general, women’s health in China has seen significant improvements since the foundation of People’s Republic of China in 1949, witnessed by improvements in multiple indexes such as Infant Mortality Rate(IMR), Physical Quality of Life Index (PQLI), etc. However, due to traditional Chinese ideology on gender inequality and complexities of Chinese political system, challenges in terms of many aspects of women’s health, such as reproductive health and HIV/AIDS, are still mounting.\n\nAfter Chinese communist party took over China in 1949, they established the first public healthcare system in China called Cooperative Medical Scheme (CMS), which devotes much attention to meeting the needs of the country’s huge rural population. The CMS was consisted of a three-tier system: barefoot doctors, township health centers, and country hospitals. In the end of the 1970s, over 90% of rural villages had set up cooperative medical schemes (CMS). The implementation of CMS has seen significant improvement in population health in China, including female health. Studies by Mei-yu Yu et al. found that the female Infant Mortality Rate (IMR) declined from 170 per 1000 in 1953 to 136 in 1957, and female average life expectancy at birth rose from 44.8 in 1949 to 67.1 in 1975. Contrary to what Chinese census has manifested, Banister’s studies have shown that female IMR is higher than male IMR in China at least since 1975. Mei Yu-yu et al. believed that such a discrepancy in IMR between female and male could be a result of preference for sons in traditional Chinese ideology, which may cause abandonment, unequal treatment or violence against female infants.\n\nSince 1978 China has been systematically moving away from a socialist economy and toward a capitalist system. With the intention to increase efficiency and improve standards of living, China has implemented far-reaching reforms: decollectivization and land tenure reforms, promotion of township and village enterprises (TVEs), state sector reforms, and policies to encourage foreign direct investment (FDI) and trade liberalization. These policies were implemented as China moved to a market economy and were furthered in order to insure their membership to the World Trade Organization (WTO). These policies are hailed by many as being highly successful, producing massive economic growth while raising the standard of living by reducing poverty. China has taken a gradual and highly regulated approach to its transformation, and while China started its transformation earlier than other socialist countries. it is still undergoing that transformation. These measures have led to much growth, and as China continues to increase its GDP at breakneck pace, those same policies have led to decentralization and privatization of healthcare. Women’s health in China is among the most prevalent casualties of this economic transformation.\n\nAs the market opened new employment, opportunities for women became available. Those new opportunities were primarily in the service and textile industries. The number of Chinese women working as of 2007 was 330 million which is now 46.7% of the total working population, the majority of these women are working in the agricultural or industrial sectors with a high concentration working in the garment industry. These industries lend themselves to dormitory living. These dormitories are filled with migrant workers, none of whom can stay in the urban areas without being employed. Young women have become the most prevalent demographic for migrant work, making up over 70% of those employed in the garment, toy, and electronic industries. These women now called \"dagongmei\" are typically short term laborers who are contracted for a short period of time and at the end of their contracts they either find more work or are forced to return home. That type of labor contract leaves these \"dagongmei\" with very little bargaining power as they seem to be easily replaceable.\n\nThe dormitory life in China leaves women with little to no home space independence from the factory. All of the women’s time spent traveling from home to work is eliminated and working days are extended to suit production needs. Sick days and personal health are of little concern in these dormitory settings. Women will often neglect their own health out of fear of retribution from factory supervisors. Furthermore, as shown in the documentary \"China Blue\" if a woman becomes pregnant while working she will be either fired or forced to quit shortly after her baby is born because she will not be able to meet her work responsibilities. In 2009 alone, over 20,000 Chinese dorm workers became ill while living in these dorms, the majority being young women. While living in dormitories, women migrant workers' time is not their own. As they become assimilated into the factory life they are almost completely controlled by the paternalistic systems of these factory owners and managers. Hygiene and communicable diseases become a threat to health as women live in rooms of 8-20 people sharing washrooms between rooms and floors of the dormitories. The only private space allotted is behind the curtain that covers an individual’s bunk. Male and female workers are separated and there are strict controls placed on the sexual activity of both. These conditions pose a great threat to not only the physical but also the mental health of these women workers being away from their home and placed in a highly restrictive environment. While those changes did allow China to achieve unprecedented economic growth, the privatization of many industries also forced China to reform its healthcare policies.\n\nAnother factor that limits women’s capabilities to access healthcare is their relative low wage compared to men. China promotes itself as having almost no gender bias when it comes to wages yet we see that compared to men women are making less money. The Chinese government touts their “equal pay for equal work” mantra, however, women find that their work in the textile industries is not equal to the work done in industries requiring “heavy” labor so in the end women make less than men because they are perceived as not being able to do the “heavy” work. This inequitable pay leaves women more vulnerable and with less capability to pay for their individual healthcare when compared to men. While 49.6% of women are uninsured demonstrating that there is not much disparity between uninsured men and women. The lack of insurance does not affect men and women equally as women needs tend to be greater in order to provide care for child birth, family care, and security. Social security coverage has also been a factor as only 37.9% of those receiving social security are women; again this becomes an issue as elderly women are unable to pay for their growing health costs. As the cost of healthcare increases due to deregulation of trade and privatization, research has shown that the conditions mentioned above have greatly reduced women’s capability to access healthcare in China.\n\nWhile China’s entry to WTO was presumed to further motivate its economic development and improve its market structure, it has also been worried that joining WTO will worsen China’s labor surplus because over-hired labor in state enterprises may be deemed “inefficient” once China entered global market. Moreover, studies have shown that the workforce in China was made of only 40% women but 60% of those laid off were women, which demonstrated that women are much more vulnerable to these effects than man.\n\nStatistics obtained in 2008 have shown that males enjoy higher physical well-being than females. However, it is not addressed if the situation could be related to China's changing economy in any ways.\n\nHealth systems in China have changed considerably during the transition to a market economy. As the transformation evolved, China’s new decentralized government divided responsibility for urban health services between the ministries of Health and Labor and Social Security. As the industrial markets were liberalizing so too were the health systems, which left many Chinese citizens uninsured having to pay for their care out of pocket with cash. Under China’s new trade policies brought on by membership to the WTO, China’s open market was exposed to foreign competition. This led to the import of better drugs and more expensive medical equipment, which in turn gave way to higher cost of care. This priced out many Chinese who were in dire need of medical attention.\n\nBetween the late 1970s and the late 1990s, the Chinese government transfers for health expenditure fell by 50% and are continuing to fall. The Chinese were spending more on healthcare but the share the state was spending went down from 36.4% of the total health expenditures in 1980 to 15.3 percent in 2003; conversely, individuals' contributions increased from 23.2% to 60.2% during the same time period. As stated above, women make less on average than men in China thus leaving women particularly vulnerable to the rising costs of healthcare. One elderly women interviewed by Liu stated that she knew many older women who when confronted with the prospect of an expensive medical procedure opted to commit suicide rather than burden their families with the cost.\n\nIn addition to bearing gender disadvantage, rural women suffer even more from insufficient healthcare due to increasing spatial disparity in China. Based on studies by Xiaobo Zhang et al., healthcare facilities have been significantly scarcer in rural areas. In 1980, hospital beds and healthcare personnel per 1000 people in cities were 4.57 and 7.82, respectively, compared to 1.48 and 1.81 in rural areas. Such disparity has grown over years. Moreover, infant mortality rate in rural areas has been significantly higher than in cities, with the gap reaching 2.1 in 2000. The ratio of female to male IMR increased dramatically from 0.9 to 1.3 over the same period. More seriously, female IMR in rural areas rose from 34.9 to 36.7 in the period of 1990–2000, as families in rural areas often have a stronger boy preference.\n\nOne of the aspects of women’s health to suffer the most as the economy shifts to a free market system is reproductive health. As health firm privatize those firms are less likely to provide free preventative health, and as a result they have discontinued the practice of providing regular reproductive health examinations. Due to this from 1997–2007 only 38 or 39 percent of women are getting the reproductive examinations that they need. There is also a widening gap between urban and rural women with regards to their respective health indicators. Health indicators show that in 2003 96.4% of urban women vs. 85.6% of rural women visited a doctor during their pregnancy. In urban areas children under 5 had a mortality rate of 14 per 1,000 again vs. 39 per 1,000 so children born in rural China were twice as likely to die before the age of 5. There are also more traditional gender values that reduce women’s access to healthcare. In one study it was shown that the majority of women still are reluctant to seek out medical help for issues concerning their gynecological needs. The unwillingness to get regular vaginal and breast examinations has led to severe vaginal infections and late detection of breast cancer. Women resist getting these vaginal exams because if they are found to have an infection their identity as a woman is called into question as her role of care giver is reversed and is labeled as a care receiver. When infections were found it was reported that women often didn't even think they were suffering from an illness, and it is speculated that they perceived these infections as part of the female condition. These attitudes are common and spread due to poor healthcare systems and health information.\n\nThe tradition of “doing the month” has significant influence on women’s postnatal health in China. Denoted as “postpartum confinement” in western scholarship, it is a series of everyday practices from special diet to restrictive activities meant to help postnatal women to recover from the trauma of birth. It is believed that such practices can help women restore their “harmonious equilibrium” in body and therefore prevent certain diseases later in their lives. However, it is highly debated among researchers whether the tradition is helpful or dysfunctional. Shu-Shya Heh et al. have found that “doing the month” makes women less likely to develop postnatal depression, because they perceive high social support from their family. Other studies have also shown that certain elements of the custom jeopardize postnatal women’s health, such as lack of exposure to sunshine or imbalance of nutrition.\n\nHIV in China has been on the rise as well rising from 15.3% in 1998 to 32.3% in 2004. This sharp rise is due to the lack of recognition and education, as for years in HIV was considered a western disease that would not affect the Chinese population and because of this rhetoric China found itself ill-equipped to deal with the social and health issues relating to HIV. There was some attempt at safe sex education and access to condoms for sex workers in the 90s but these were largely token gestures and had no real effect. At one point the Chinese government in some provinces went as far as to outlaw AIDS victims from marrying, or serving as teachers and doctors. This uninformed perception of AIDS victims was particularly damaging to women and homosexuals as they were perceived as the carriers of this disease.\n\nA recent sign that catches increasing attention is the rise in new infections among women compared to men. Recent estimates by the Chinese Ministry of Health and the Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS shows that the ratio of reported infections went from 5 men to 1 woman during 1995–1997 to 4 men to 1 woman by 2001. During 1999–2008, the proportion of women infected with HIV doubled compared to the previous decade. During 1999–2008, the proportion of women infected with HIV doubled compared to the previous decade. Analysis by Population Reference Bureau attributes such rise primarily to three aspects: physical vulnerabilities of women, soaring sexually transmitted infection (STI) rates in China, and women’s social vulnerability in China. Durin99-2008, the proportion of women infected with HIV doubled compared to the previous decade. Specifically, unprotected sex exposes women to a risk of HIV infection of 2-4 times higher than for men due to the biological structure of women’s vagina. Also, STI rates, as a marker of infection rate of HIV/AIDS, are also on the rise in China for the past few decades, and young women in migration or commercial sex industry are particularly vulnerable to STI.\n\nStudies have shown a high level of body dissatisfaction among young women across China. Like other parts of the world, reported eating disorder symptoms are also significantly higher for females than males. Among various predictors, perceptions of social pressure and teasing play a significant role in impacting young women's weight-related concerns. Sing Lee et al. have found that women’s concern with body fat is more severe in developed areas such as Hong Kong. Some interpret prevalent eating disorders among women as a side effect of the societal modernization in China.\n\nChina accounts for 30% of the world’s suicide and it is the only country where women have a higher suicidal rate than men. According to Pin Qing’s study, approximately 56% of women who committed suicide worldwide were Chinese. Some explanations state that prevailing gender discrimination in China is a main cause of high female suicide. Many traditional concepts of Chinese society, such as an emphasis on women’s domestic and reproductive role, all put women at a vulnerable position. In August 2017, the 26-year-old pregnant woman, surnamed Ma, jumped from a hospital window, after she was not allowed to receive C-section by her husband’s family. The family declined Ma’s request to receive C-section because they believe the procedure would make it harder for her to give birth to a second child. The incident has stirred hot debate about women’s status within households and ongoing propaganda on two-child policy.\n\nIn recent years, however, female suicidal rate in China has decreased significantly, from 26.1 per 100,000 to 15.7 per 100,000 in 2000. The female to male suicide rate decreased from 1.2 to 0.96 in urban areas. Paul S. F. Yip attributes such progress to rapid modernization during the 1990-2000 decade, which involves great improvement in the standard of living, education, etc.\n\nIt is also important to note that the rural suicidal rate is three-fold the urban rate in China, and the decrease in female suicide rate is much less significant in rural areas. Liu Meng’s field studies in rural China indicated that women sometimes use suicide as a means of rebellion in their private space, a way to achieve the influence and power that were unattainable in their lifetime. Such is related to the more extreme forms of patriarchal oppression in rural areas.\n\nAccording to studies by William Parish et al. in 2004, 19% of female respondents in China reported experience of intimate partner violence while 3% of their male counterparts reported such. The study showed that duration of the relationship and low socioeconomic status both have a positive correlation with the occurrence of male-on-female violence, and respondents from inland or Northern China are also more frequently found to experience such violence.\n\nExperience of intimate partner violence was found to exert serious adverse impact on women’s physical and mental health. Multi-country studies by Henrica A F M indicated that 19-55% women who experienced intimate partner violence were actually injured by their partner and they are exposed to significantly higher risk of mental illness such as emotional distress.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1906015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906015", "title": "Electoral Action of Poles in Lithuania – Christian Families Alliance", "text": "Electoral Action of Poles in Lithuania – Christian Families Alliance\n\nElectoral Action of Poles in Lithuania – Christian Families Alliance or EAPL–CFA ( or LLRA–KŠS; or AWPL–ZCHR) is a political party in Lithuania. It represents the Polish minority and positions itself as Christian-democratic. It has 8 seats in the Seimas, one seat in the European Parliament, and 11 seats in coalition with the Russian Alliance in the Vilnius City Municipality.\n\nFormed in 1994 from the political wing of the Association of Poles in Lithuania, LLRA experienced a surge in support in the 2000s, under the leadership of Valdemar Tomaševski. It increased its representation from under 2% in 2000, leading to the party being invited to join the governing coalition: an invitation they rejected. They increased their vote again to 3.8% in 2004 and 4.8% in 2008: just short of the 5% election threshold for any of the Seimas's 70 proportional representation seats. In the 2009 European election, they won 8.2% and one seat. The party's vote is concentrated in the south-east of the country, around the capital, where the Polish minority is located. At the 2012 election, LLRA broke through 5% in a parliamentary election for the first time: qualifying for proportional representation seats.\n\nIn the Seimas, the party sits with fellow right-leaning party Order and Justice. LLRA's MEP (its leader Valdemar Tomaševski) sits in the European Parliament with the European Conservatives and Reformists, which includes the Polish Law and Justice and Poland Comes First, and the party is a member of the ACRE.\n\nAt the beginning of 1994 the law on social organisations was adopted. According to this law, social organisations had to transform into political parties or simply remain social organizations. Till that time the Association of Poles in Lithuania (LLA) was a public-political organisation. Thus it had the option to act both in social and political spheres. The Polish community which did not have its own party faced the difficult task of keeping the Association and simultaneously enabling its participation in the political life of Lithuania at the same time. The creation of the party required a lot of organizational effort. In this situation the central administration of the LLA convened the 5th Extraordinary Conference of the LLA on 14 August. During the Conference the decision was adopted to transform the APL into a social organisation and support the efforts of the group initiating the establishment of a party set up under the name of the Electoral Action of the LLA. Finally, on 23 October after pressure from the Lithuanian Ministry of Justice to remove the word ‘Union’ from the name of the party, it was registered as the Electoral Action of Poles in Lithuania (LLRA). During the Founding Conference of 1994 and 1997 Jan Senkevič was elected as LLRA leader. In 1999 during the 3rd LLRA Conference Valdemar Tomaševski became the chairman of the organisation. Moreover, Tomaševski was elected as leader in the 4th and 5th LLRA Conferences.\n\nThe LLRA takes part in various elections – starting with municipal through parliamentary and ending with the elections to the European Parliament in 2004. During the whole period of its existence the LLRA took part in defense of the interests of the Polish minority in Lithuania. The Union of the Russians of Lithuania had cooperated with the LLRA in elections, running within a common list in 2004.\n\nIn 2016, Electoral Action of Poles in Lithuania changed its name to Electoral Action of Poles in Lithuania – Christian Families Alliance.\n\nThe party's primary aim is not ideological, but the protection and enhancement of the rights of the Polish minority, who make up 7% of Lithuania's population. Their main policies include the restoration of land seized from Poles by the Soviet government, the improvement of the education system and allowing the use of the Polish language in schools, and giving official recognition to the Polish orthography of names.\n\nIt supports a more influential political role for the Roman Catholic Church, mandatory religious education in schools, and a reduction in the number of Lithuanian parliamentarians from 141 to 101 coupled to an increase in the number of local councillors. Since 2005, it unsuccessfully tried to submit bills to penalize abortion.\n\nLLRA is a member of the Europe-wide anti-federalist Alliance of European Conservatives and Reformists (AECR), along with both Law and Justice and Poland Comes First from Poland. It is also member of the AECR's associated political grouping, the European Conservatives and Reformists, having resisted intensive lobbying from the Polish Civic Platform to join the EPP group, to which Civic Platform belong and to which LLRA had been considered likely to join. Its youth wing belongs to the European Young Conservatives.\n\nThe party currently sits with fellow centre-right party Order and Justice in the Seimas. They have agreed an electoral alliance with the Lithuanian Russian Union.\n\nThe party has received criticism from some Polish politicians for its support and connections to Russian politicians.\n\nBelow are charts of the results that the Electoral Action of Poles in Lithuania (and the Association of Poles in Lithuania in 1992) has secured in the Seimas at each election. Timelines showing the number of seats and percentage of votes won are on the right.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1906016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906016", "title": "Christian Conservative Social Union", "text": "Christian Conservative Social Union\n\nThe Christian Conservative Social Union (, KKSS) was a centre-right, Christian-conservative political party in Lithuania.\n\nThe party was established as the Union of Moderate Conservatives (\"Nuosaikiųjų konservatorių sąjunga\") in 2000 as a breakaway from the Homeland Union. Initially led by former Prime Minister Gediminas Vagnorius, it contested the 2000 elections, receiving 2% of the vote and winning a single seat.\n\nBy the 2004 elections the party had been renamed the \"Christian Conservative Social Union\". It received again 2.0% of the vote, but lost its single seat in the Seimas.\n\nOn 23 January 2010 it merged into the Christian Party.\n\n"}
{"id": "1906017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906017", "title": "Lithuanian Christian Democrats", "text": "Lithuanian Christian Democrats\n\nThe Lithuanian Christian Democrats (, LKD) was a Christian-democratic political party in Lithuania. The party was a member of the European People's Party (EPP) and the European Christian Political Movement.\n\nThe LKD was established in 2001 by a merger of the Christian Democratic Union and the Lithuanian Christian Democratic Party, who between them held three seats in the Seimas. A faction opposed to the merger formed a new party, the \"Lietuvos krikščioniškosios demokratijos partija\", chaired by Zigmas Zinkevičius.\n\nThe 2004 elections saw the new party receive just 1.4% of the vote, and lose its parliamentary representation. On 17 May 2008, the LKD merged with the Homeland Union, which was renamed to \"Homeland Union - Lithuanian Christian Democrats\" as a result.\n\n"}
{"id": "1906020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906020", "title": "Lacrosse Hall of Fame", "text": "Lacrosse Hall of Fame\n\nLacrosse Hall of Fame may refer to: \n\n"}
{"id": "1906024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906024", "title": "Sam Drover", "text": "Sam Drover\n\nSamuel \"Sam\" Drover (1911 in Hodge's Cove, Trinity Bay, Newfoundland – June 20, 2005) was a longtime member of Newfoundland's House of Assembly and founded the Newfoundland Co-operative Commonwealth Federation (CCF), a social democratic political party.\n\nDrover was educated in Hodge's Cove and at Memorial University. He taught school from 1929 until 1938, when he joined the Royal Newfoundland Constabulary. Drover tried to enlist in the Royal Air Force in 1942 but was not accepted. He then joined the Newfoundland Ranger Force, serving until 1949.\n\nHe was originally elected as a Liberal member of the House of Assembly in the 1949 election, which was the first after the dominion of Newfoundland joined the Canadian confederation as a province. He was re-elected in 1951. Drover became disenchanted with Premier Joey Smallwood's government because he believed that it ignored the problems of rural poverty.\n\nHe crossed the floor to the CCF in 1955, becoming the first CCF member in Newfoundland. He helped form the new party and became its leader. The CCF fielded ten candidates in the 1956 election. The party won no seats, however, and he lost his own seat in the riding now known as Trinity North. It would take three decades before the CCF's successor, the New Democratic Party, was able to win a seat in the legislature. Following his defeat, Drover started his own business in Hodge's Cove.\n\nDrover ran in the 1965 federal election as an \"independent Liberal\" in Trinity—Conception and in the 1972 election as an independent candidate in Bonavista—Trinity—Conception. On both occasions he came in fourth, behind the three major parties.\n\n"}
{"id": "1906032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906032", "title": "Hayakawa", "text": "Hayakawa\n\nHayakawa (written: 早川) is a Japanese surname. Notable people with the surname include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1906035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906035", "title": "Aengus Ó Snodaigh", "text": "Aengus Ó Snodaigh\n\nAengus Ó Snodaigh ( born 31 July 1964) is an Irish Sinn Féin politician, author and historian who has been a Teachta Dála (TD) for the Dublin South-Central constituency since the 2002 general election.\n\nA Dubliner and Irish language speaker, he attended school at Scoil Lorcáin and Coláiste Eoin, before studying at University College Dublin (UCD). Ó Snodaigh joined Sinn Féin while at university, where he was active in student politics, in 1983. He completed a Bachelor of Arts in History and Geography, and a Higher Diploma in Education. Having secured his teaching qualifications, he went on to teach at secondary level and as a literacy teacher in Dublin's inner city.\n\nHe is also the editor of \"Fealsúnacht, Feall agus Fuil\" which is a collection of historical essays concentrating on the 1798 Rebellion and several pamphlets on aspects of Irish republican history. He is a member of the board of the Ireland Institute, aimed at promoting discussion on Irish republicanism, culture and heritage which restored the Pearse brothers birthplace and original family home at 27 Pearse Street, Dublin, and joint editor of the Institute's journal, \"The Republic\". Ó Snodaigh is the brother of the three Ó Snodaigh brothers in the band Kíla and is the son of the writer and publisher Pádraig Ó Snodaigh and the sculptor Clioḋna Cussen from Newcastlewest, County Limerick. He is married to Aisling Ní Dhálaigh; they live in Bluebell with their three children. He also worked as a journalist, book reviewer and proofreader for \"An Phoblacht\" newspaper. In one incident a book-bomb was sent to the office by Ulster loyalist paramilitaries and he carried the device outside the building, where it exploded a short time later, injuring two soldiers.\n\nIn April 2014, one of Ó Snodaigh's sons was stabbed and seriously injured during a late-night altercation with a fellow teenager in his home. In the same month another one of his sons was reported missing, but was later found unharmed.\n\nHe was first elected to Dáil Éireann at the 2002 general election, having contested a Dáil election in 1987 in Dublin South-East first and a by-election in the Dublin South-Central constituency in 1999. Seven of Ó Snodaigh's election workers were jailed for IRA membership in 2004.\n\nHe is currently the Sinn Féin party whip in the Dáil and is the party Spokesperson on Social Protection. He was previously the Sinn Féin representative on the National Forum on Europe and the party's spokesperson on the Treaty of Nice. He was a member of the Dáil Committee on Procedures and Privileges and the Committee on European Affairs in the 29th Dáil. He was re-elected at the 2007 general election. He has been a member of the Sinn Féin national executive, the Ard Chomhairle, for many years, has been on the Dublin executive of the party since 1985, and was part of the party's negotiations team during the Northern Ireland peace process.\n\nÓ Snodaigh is a well known supporter of the Palestinian cause and has in the past been highly critical of the actions of Israel.\n\nDuring the 2009 Gaza–Israel conflict Ó Snodaigh claimed that Alan Shatter, a Fine Gael TD, and the Israeli ambassador to Ireland had exposed the Oireachtas committee on Foreign Affairs to \"propaganda, twisted logic and half truths\". He also said that Joseph Goebbels, the Nazi propaganda minister, would have been proud of it. Israeli ambassador to Ireland, Dr Zion Evrony, labelled Ó Snodaigh's comments as \"outrageous\" and asked for an apology, which Ó Snodaigh refused. Shatter, the only Jewish member of the Dáil, said he was appalled by Ó Snodaigh's mindset that he would liken a Jewish politician to a Nazi minister. Fine Gael leader Enda Kenny demanded a retraction and described Ó Snodaigh's attack on Shatter as \"despicable and outrageous\". European Affairs Minister Dick Roche, a Fianna Fáil TD, said Ó Snodaigh's statement was \"sickening and calculated to offend\" and \"the fact that Ó Snodaigh made his remarks in the period immediately before the National Holocaust Memorial Day makes his actions doubly reprehensible.\"\n\nOn 30 May 2010, he was one of three Irish politicians who were prevented from leaving Cyprus by authorities to join an international flotilla carrying aid to the blockaded Gaza Strip. In March 2011, Ó Snodaigh set off on another flotilla to Gaza. One of his shipmates included former TD and then member of Fianna Fáil Chris Andrews who later joined Sinn Féin.\n\nIt was reported in February 2012, that Ó Snodaigh's office had used €50,000 worth of ink cartridges from the Oireachtas between 2007 and 2008.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1906038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906038", "title": "Pat Dye", "text": "Pat Dye\n\nPatrick Fain Dye (born November 6, 1939 - June 1, 2020) was a former American football player, coach, and college athletics administrator. He served as the head football coach at East Carolina University (1974–1979), the University of Wyoming (1980), and Auburn University (1981–1992) compiling a career college football record of 153–62–5. He served as the Athletic Director at Auburn from 1981 to 1991 and was inducted into the College Football Hall of Fame as a coach in 2005. On November 19, 2005 the playing field in the stadium at Auburn University was named 'Pat Dye Field' in his honor.\n\nPat Dye played high school football at Richmond Academy in Augusta, Georgia, from 1954-1956 where he was selected All-American and All-State while leading the team to the 1956 3A state championship, serving as team captain. He placed 2nd in the state tournament in shot-put and javelin, on the State Championship Track Team. Following this success, \"The Atlanta Journal-Constitution\" selected Dye as Georgia's 3A Lineman of the Year for 1956 before being recruited to the University of Georgia, where he followed his older brothers, Wayne and Nat.\n\nWhile playing for the Bulldogs from 1957-1960, under head coach Wally Butts, Dye was a first-team All-SEC lineman and two-time All-American (1959 and 1960). He was a two-way starter at offensive guard and linebacker, SEC Lineman of the Year in 1960, team Co-Captain in 1960, won the William K. Jenkins Award for the Most Valuable Lineman (1959,1960), and the JB Whitworth Award for the Outstanding Georgia Lineman 1960. He helped lead the team to the SEC Championship and the Orange Bowl in 1959,\nundefeated as a player against Georgia Tech. He played in 3 All-Star games: the Blue Gray Classic, Senior Bowl, and Coaches All-American Game in 1960. The Atlanta Touchdown Club named him the SEC's Most Valuable Lineman in 1960 where he served as co-captain with friend and NFL Hall of Famer Fran Tarkenton.\n\nUpon graduation from Georgia, Dye played three years of professional football as a two-way starter at tight end and linebacker for the Edmonton Eskimos in the Canadian Football League. He then served from 1963-1964 in the US Army to fulfill an ROTC obligation where he played for the Ft. Benning 'Doughboys'. While playing there he received the Timmy Award for Armed Services Most Valuable Player in 1964.\n\nDye's first coaching job came as an assistant head coach at the University of Alabama in 1965, under Bear Bryant. Dye served as a defensive assistant at Alabama through the 1973 season.\n\nDye moved into his first head coaching job at East Carolina University in 1974. Over six seasons, he achieved a record of 48–18–1. He guided the Pirates to the Southern Conference championship in 1976 and posted at least seven wins in all six seasons in Greenville. In 2006, Dye was inducted into the East Carolina Athletics Hall of Fame. As of 2006, his 72.4% win rate is the second highest of any coach in East Carolina University history.\n\nIn 1980, Dye took over for one season as head coach at the University of Wyoming. In the decade prior to his arrival, the Cowboys had had only one winning season (winning 35% of their games). In Dye's first year, he changed the culture into a winning program going 6–5 and paving the way for future success under coaches Al Kincaid (Dye's offensive coordinator) and Dennis Erickson. In an interview many years later, Dye revealed that the athletic administration at Wyoming failed to have him sign his contract when they hired him. Consequently, when Auburn hired Dye to be their new head coach, Wyoming had no recourse to demand compensation for Auburn hiring him away.\n\nDuring Dye's interview for the head coaching job at Auburn, he was asked by a member of the search committee, \"How long will it take you to beat Alabama?\" Dye's reply was \"60 minutes.\" At Auburn, Dye achieved a record of 99–39–4 (71.1% win rate) over 12 seasons. His 99 wins are behind only Mike Donahue and Ralph Jordan for the most in school history. Under Dye's leadership, the Tigers won four Southeastern Conference championships (1983, 1987, 1988, 1989) and Dye became only the fourth coach in SEC history to win three straight (1987, 1988, 1989). He received SEC Coach of the Year honors in 1983, 1987 and 1988. Dye was also Auburn's Athletic Director from 1981 to 1991, a perk Ralph \"Shug\" Jordan did not enjoy during his 25-year tenure (1951–75), which saw the stadium named in his honor. \n\nDye coached 1985 Heisman Trophy winner Bo Jackson, as well as Tracy Rocker, winner of both the Outland Trophy and the Lombardi Award in 1988. The 1983 team, led by quarterback Randy Campbell and a stifling defense, is generally considered Dye's best. They bounced back from an early season loss to Texas to win 10 consecutive games, including five over bowl teams. Auburn was ranked #1 in the nation by the New York Times at the end of the 1983 season but ended up #3 in the AP and UPI polls, behind Miami and Nebraska. \n\nDye's tenure on the Plains ended due to a NCAA investigation involving a member of the team. The NCAA found that Dye was personally responsible for rules violations. The fallout from the investigation eventually led Dye to step down as Athletic Director in 1991, and as head coach the following year.\n\nOn November 19, 2005, the playing surface at Jordan–Hare Stadium at Auburn was named Pat Dye Field in the former coach's honor. The dedication ceremony was held immediately before the Iron Bowl, which Auburn went on to win 28–18. This was especially appropriate since Dye led the Tigers to a 30–20 victory over the Tide on December 2, 1989, in the first installment of the Iron Bowl, to be played at Auburn after 41 consecutive meetings at Legion Field in Birmingham. The permanent move of Auburn's home games against Alabama to Jordan–Hare Stadium is considered one of Dye's most important achievements as AU's Athletic Director. Dye's tenure was also notable for the November 27, 1982 victory over arch-rival Alabama, when Dye's team defeated Alabama 23–22 in Bryant's last regular-season game. That game snapped a 9-game Tide winning streak and reignited the rivalry again.\n\nDye's autobiography, \"In The Arena\", written with John Logue, was published in 1992. In September 2006, Dye partnered with publisher Mascot Books to release his first children's book, \"War Eagle!\". Dye's third book, \"After The Arena\", published in 2013, details his life after leaving coaching in 1992.\n\nDuring the latter part of his life, Dye spent most of his time on his farm in Notasulga, Alabama, where he was involved in the day-to-day activities of his two businesses: Crooked Oaks Hunting Preserve and Quail Hollow Gardens Japanese Maple Farm & Nursery. Many activities on his farm are made available to the public, including Horse Boarding and trail rides, Quail Hunts, and Garden Tours. Dye's family includes 4 children and 9 grandchildren.\n\nIn 2005, Pat Dye was inducted into the College Football Hall of Fame. In 2014, he was inducted into the Georgia-Florida Hall of Fame.\n\nFrom 2013 until 2020, Dye hosted \"The Coach Pat Dye Show\" with co-host Tim Ellen and producer Lynn Huggins. The show was a weekly sports interview and opinion program that aired on radio stations around the southeast, online and on tune-in radio.\n\nOn May 21, 2020 Dye was hospitalized in Atlanta for kidney-related problems. He was later diagnosed with COVID-19. He succumbed to kidney failure on June 1, 2020.\n\n"}
{"id": "1906042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906042", "title": "Political and Economic Planning", "text": "Political and Economic Planning\n\nPolitical and Economic Planning (PEP) was a British policy think tank, formed in 1931 in response to Max Nicholson's article \"A National Plan for Britain\" published in February of that year in Gerald Barry's magazine \"The Week-End Review\".\n\nThe original members included Nicholson and Barry, the zoologist Julian Huxley, the agronomist Leonard Elmhirst, the financier Basil Phillott Blackett, the civil servants Dennis Routh and Sir Henry Bunbury, the research chemist Michael Zvegintzov, and Israel Sieff, a director of Marks & Spencer. Sieff was Chairman in the 1930s, followed by Elmhirst in 1939 and by Nicholson in 1953. It was a non-governmental planning organisation financed by corporations.\n\nThis prolific organisation was influential in the formation of the National Health Service, World War II and post-war planning, and the development of the African colonies. After the war it shared the offices of The Nature Conservancy in Belgrave Square, London, producing reports such as \"Opportunities in Industry\" (1957) and \"Advisory Committees in British Government\" (1960)\n\nIn 1978 PEP merged with the Centre for the Study of Social Policy (CSSP), and became the Policy Studies Institute (PSI).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1906050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906050", "title": "CEMIG", "text": "CEMIG\n\nCEMIG is a Brazilian power company headquartered in Belo Horizonte capital of the state of Minas Gerais. The company is one of the largest power generators and distributors in Brazil being responsible for 12% of the national distribution. The company is the fourth largest electricity company in Brazil by revenue after Eletrobras, Energisa and CPFL Energia.\n\nCEMIG is present in 22 Brazilian States and in Chile. With around 50 power plants in operation, most of them hydroelectric, the company owns around 6,000 MW of generation capacity. Cemig also owns a cable television, internet and telecommunications business called Infovias which uses the company's transmission and distribution lines. Also, a business called Gasmig supplies natural gas in Minas Gerais. Just over half of Cemig's stock is owned by the state of Minas Gerais.\n\nThe company is responsible for serving about 18 million people in 774 municipalities of Minas Gerais and for the management of the largest network of electricity distribution in South America, with more than 400 thousand km of lines.\n\nThe stock is traded on BM&F Bovespa where it is part of the Ibovespa index. It is also traded on the New York Stock Exchange. It's also part of The Global Dow and of the Latibex, an index for Latin companies in Madrid Stock Exchange.\nThe company owns 43% of Taesa, a Brazilian Electric Company.\n\n"}
{"id": "1906051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906051", "title": "Schindlerjuden", "text": "Schindlerjuden\n\nThe , literally translated from German as \"Schindler Jews\", were a group of roughly 1,200 Jews who were saved by Oskar Schindler during the Holocaust. They survived the years of the Nazi regime primarily through the intervention of Schindler, who found them protected status as industrial workers at his enamelware factory in Kraków and, after 1944, in an armaments factory in occupied Czechoslovakia. There, they avoided being sent to death camps and survived the war. Schindler expended his personal fortune as an industrialist to save the \"Schindlerjuden\".\n\nTheir story has been depicted in the book \"Schindler's Ark\", by Thomas Keneally, and Steven Spielberg's film adaptation of the novel, \"Schindler's List\". Poldek Pfefferberg, one of the survivors, persuaded Thomas Keneally to write the novel and Steven Spielberg to produce the film.\n\nIn 2012, there were estimated to be over 8,500 descendants of \" living across the United States, Europe, and Israel.\n\nThe original list of \" who were transported to Schindler's Brünnlitz factory in Brněnec, occupied Czechoslovakia, was prepared by Mietek Pemper, Itzhak Stern and Oskar Schindler during September and October 1944. That list likely no longer exists.\n\nAnother list with 1,000 names, compiled by Pemper upon the prisoners' arrival 21 October 1944 at Schindler's Brünnlitz factory, was presented by him to the International Tracing Service in 1958.\n\nTwo lists of 1,098 prisoners made by camp administration in Brünnlitz on 18 April 1945 are extant, and are preserved in Yad Vashem Memorial, where Oskar and Emilie Schindler are recognized among the Righteous. The first list contains 297 female prisoners while the second list contains 801 male prisoners. There are several preserved copies and carbon copies of the list from April 1945, with some in museums while others are in private hands, mostly of families of former prisoners. In April 2009, a carbon copy of the original list, documenting 801 names, was discovered among the documentation \"Schindler's Ark\" author Thomas Keneally had donated to the State Library of New South Wales in Sydney.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1906052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906052", "title": "Arthur Newbery Park", "text": "Arthur Newbery Park\n\nArthur Newbery Park is a park in Tilehurst, Reading, Berkshire. It is named after Arthur Newbery, who donated the land in 1932. It is one of Reading's oldest parks and was once part of Kentwood Common. Hollows in the park are remains of chalk and clay pits.\n\nThe park slopes down to the north giving views to the River Thames and across its valley. It is mainly grass, with scattered trees, although there are small wooded areas and a play area. What is now the play area was once a pool, the pool become less popular, then neglected c. 1994.\n\nThe park is of 26 acres and was once owned by Arthur Newbery, who owned and ran a high class furniture shop located at the junction of Friar Street and Queen Victoria Street in Reading town centre in trade for over forty years. On 14 September 1932, Newbery gifted the park to the mayor of Reading as an open space for the people of Reading. The great and the good were gathered on the late summer afternoon, this being a Wednesday, as it was convenient for the half day closing thus allowing members of the Council who were shopkeepers and the like to attend. Following a small lunch held at Tilehurst Congregational Church at Polsted Road the party, numbering about thirty local dignitaries, walked through the park to the hill overlooking the Thames. Here Newbery made a short speech. Newbery cited the encroaching housing development in the area as his reason for the bequest. A photograph of the occasion appeared in the Reading Chronicle on 17 September, a copy of which is held at Reading Library. The Park was originally known as Hare Moor.\nThe park had two public air raid shelters during World War II but these have since been filled in. Newbery died in 1961 at the age of 98. Rabbits can still be seen on the odd occasion running wild in the avenue of trees at the bottom bordering Oak Tree Road where Lucas Farm once stood.\n"}
{"id": "1906058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906058", "title": "Vickers A1E1 Independent", "text": "Vickers A1E1 Independent\n\nThe Independent A1E1 is a multi-turreted tank that was designed by the British armaments manufacturer Vickers between the First and Second World Wars. Although it only ever reached the prototype stage and only a single example was built, it influenced many other tank designs.\n\nThe A1E1 design can be seen as a possible influence on the Soviet T-100 and T-28 tanks, the German \"Neubaufahrzeug\" tanks, and the British Medium Mk III and Cruiser Mk I (triple turret) tank designs. The Soviet T-35 tank was heavily influenced by its design.\n\nThe Independent was a multi-turret design, having a central gun turret armed with the 3 pounder (47 mm) gun, and four subsidiary turrets each armed with a 0.303 inch Vickers machine gun. The subsidiary turrets were mounted two at the front and two to the rear of the turret (about halfway along the hull). The gun of the left rear turret was able to elevate to engage aircraft. The tank was designed to have heavy firepower, self-defence capability, and superiority to enemy weapons. It had a crew of eight men, the commander communicating with the crew through an intercom system. The Independent was never used in combat, but other armies studied it and a few adopted designs derived from it.\n\nIn 1924 the General Staff of the British Army ordered the prototype of a heavy tank, which became known as the Independent. Largely designed by Walter Gordon Wilson, its V12 air-cooled engine was designed by Armstrong Siddeley. It also incorporated a new hydraulic braking system which had to be specially developed due to its weight and speed. The prototype was delivered to the War Office in 1926, and displayed to the premiers of the Dominions that year.\n\nThe tank was the subject of industrial and political espionage, the plans ending up in the Soviet Union, where they may have influenced the design of the T-28 and T-35 tanks. Norman Baillie-Stewart, a British military officer, was court-martialled in 1933 and served five years in prison for providing the plans of the Independent (among other secrets) to a German contact.\n\nIt remained in use for experiments until 1935 when it was worn out and retired to Bovington Tank Museum, where it is preserved.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1906068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906068", "title": "23am", "text": "23am\n\n23am is the second studio album by composer Robert Miles, released in late 1997 via Deconstruction and Arista labels.\n\nThe composition of \"23am\" began from the \"Dreamland\" tour, during which Miles collected audio samples from virtually every city visited. Aside from being based on his experiences of these travels (in the liner notes Miles emphasizes the influence seeing in person so many problems that society has brought onto itself had), Miles has also said that the album reflects the human life cycle from birth to death.\n\n\"23am\" also contains four vocal songs, a ratio of vocals to instrumentals that is almost equal to that of \"Dreamland\". They seem to have been less an afterthought for this album, though, and were written in Italian and then translated into English. Two tracks on the album, including its first single \"Freedom\", feature vocals by disco icon Kathy Sledge of the chart-topping group Sister Sledge.\n\nThe structures and instrumental arrangements on \"23am\" are more complex than those on the earlier \"Dreamland\", involving real instruments such as the saxophone and trumpet as an addition to the synthesizers. The music is also much less beat-driven; the main sections of a number of the vocal-based songs are structured like pop songs, while the segueing interludes between songs are generally structureless, with no beats at all. Ultimately it can be said that \"23am\" is more artistic and less dance-oriented than its predecessor, \"Dreamland\". At the same time, however, \"23am\" was less successful than \"Dreamland\".\n"}
{"id": "1906074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906074", "title": "Sodium chlorite", "text": "Sodium chlorite\n\nSodium chlorite (NaClO) is a chemical compound used in the manufacturing of paper and as a disinfectant.\n\nThe main application of sodium chlorite is the generation of chlorine dioxide for bleaching and stripping of textiles, pulp, and paper. It is also used for disinfection of municipal water treatment plants after conversion to chlorine dioxide. An advantage in this application, as compared to the more commonly used chlorine, is that trihalomethanes (such as chloroform) are not produced from organic contaminants. Chlorine dioxide generated from sodium chlorite is approved by FDA under some conditions for disinfecting water used to wash fruits, vegetables, and poultry.\n\nSodium chlorite, NaClO, sometimes in combination with zinc chloride, also finds application as a component in therapeutic rinses, mouthwashes, toothpastes and gels, mouth sprays, as preservative in eye drops, and in contact lens cleaning solution under the trade name Purite.\n\nIt is also used for sanitizing air ducts and HVAC/R systems and animal containment areas (walls, floors, and other surfaces).\n\nIn organic synthesis, sodium chlorite is frequently used as a reagent in the Pinnick oxidation for the oxidation of aldehydes to carboxylic acids. The reaction is usually performed in monosodium phosphate buffered solution in the presence of a chlorine scavenger (usually 2-methyl-2-butene).\n\nIn 2005, sodium chlorite was used as an oxidizing agent to convert alkyl furans to the corresponding 4-oxo-2-alkenoic acids in a simple one pot synthesis.\n\nMixing sodium chlorite solution with a weak food-grade acid solution (commonly citric acid), both stable, produces short-lived acidified sodium chlorite (ASC) which has potent decontaminating properties. Upon mixing the main active ingredient, chlorous acid is produced in equilibrium with chlorite anion. The proportion varies with pH, temperature, and other factors, ranging from approximately 5–35% chlorous acid with 65–95% chlorite; more acidic solutions result in a higher proportion of chlorous acid. Chlorous acid breaks down to chlorine dioxide which in turn breaks down to chlorite anion and ultimately chloride anion. ASC is used for sanitation of the hard surfaces which come in contact with food and as a wash or rinse for a variety of foods including red meat, poultry, seafood, fruits and vegetables. Because the oxo-chlorine compounds are unstable when properly prepared, there should be no measurable residue on food if treated appropriately. ASC also is used as a teat dip for control of mastitis in dairy cattle.\n\nThe U.S. Army Natick Soldier Research, Development, and Engineering Center produced a portable \"no power required\" method of generating chlorine dioxide, known as ClO, gas, described as one of the best biocides available for combating contaminants, which range from benign microbes and food pathogens to Category A Bioterror agents. \nIn the weeks after the 9/11 attacks when anthrax was sent in letters to public officials, hazardous materials teams used ClO to decontaminate the Hart Senate Office Building, and the Brentwood Postal Facility.\n\nIn addressing the COVID-19 pandemic, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency has posted a list of many disinfectants that meet its criteria for use in environmental measures against the causative coronavirus. Some are based on sodium chlorite that is activated into chlorine dioxide, though differing formulations are used in each product. Many other products on the EPA list contain sodium hypochlorite, which is similar in name but should not be confused with sodium chlorite because they have very different modes of chemical action.\n\nSodium chlorite, like many oxidizing agents, should be protected from inadvertent contamination by organic materials to avoid the formation of an explosive mixture. The chemical is stable in pure form and does not explode on percussive impact, unless organic contaminants are present, such as on a greasy hammer striking the chemical on an anvil. It also easily ignites by friction if combined with a reducing agent like powdered sugar, sulfur or red phosphorus.\n\nSodium chlorite is a strong oxidant and can therefore be expected to cause clinical symptoms similar to the well known sodium chlorate: methemoglobinemia, hemolysis, kidney failure. A dose of 10-15 grams of sodium chlorate can be lethal. Methemoglobemia had been demonstrated in rats and cats, and recent studies by the EMEA have confirmed that the clinical symptomatology is very similar to the one caused by sodium chlorate in rats, mice, rabbits, and green monkeys.\n\nThere is only one human case in the medical literature of chlorite poisoning. It seems to confirm that the toxicity is equal to sodium chlorate. From the analogy with sodium chlorate, even small amounts of about 1 gram can be expected to cause nausea, vomiting and even life-threatening hemolysis in glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficient persons.\n\nThe EPA has set a maximum contaminant level of 1 milligram of chlorite per liter (1 mg/L) in drinking water.\n\nSellers of “Miracle Mineral Solution”, a mixture of sodium chlorite and citric acid also known as \"MMS\" that is promoted as a cure-all have been convicted, fined, or otherwise disciplined in multiple jurisdictions around the world. MMS products were variously referred to as snake oil and complete quackery. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration has issued multiple warnings against consuming MMS.\n\nThe free acid, chlorous acid, HClO, is only stable at low concentrations. Since it cannot be concentrated, it is not a commercial product. However, the corresponding sodium salt, sodium chlorite, NaClO is stable and inexpensive enough to be commercially available. The corresponding salts of heavy metals (Ag, Hg, Tl, Pb, and also Cu and NH) decompose explosively with heat or shock.\n\nSodium chlorite is derived indirectly from sodium chlorate, NaClO. First, sodium chlorate is reduced to chlorine dioxide, typically in a strong acid solution using reducing agents such as sodium sulfite, sulfur dioxide, or hydrochloric acid. This intermediate is then absorbed into a solution of aqueous sodium hydroxide where another reducing agent converts it to sodium chlorite. Even hydrogen peroxide can be used as the reducing agent, giving oxygen gas as its byproduct rather than other inorganic salts or materials that could contaminate the desired product.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1906077", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906077", "title": "Three Concert Études", "text": "Three Concert Études\n\nThree Concert Études (\"Trois études de concert\"), S.144, are a set of three piano études by Franz Liszt, composed between 1845–49 and published in Paris as \"Trois caprices poétiques\" with the three individual titles as they are known today.\n\nAs the title indicates, they are intended not only for the acquisition of a better technique, but also for concert performance. Liszt was himself a virtuoso pianist and was able to easily play many complex patterns generally considered difficult. The Italian subtitles now associated with the études—\"Il lamento\" (\"The Lament\"), \"La leggierezza\" (\"Lightness\"), and \"Un sospiro\" (\"A sigh\")—were not in early editions.\n\nIl lamento is the first of the études. Written in A-flat major, it is among Liszt's longest pieces in the genre. It starts with a four-note lyrical melody which folds itself through the work, followed by a Chopin-like chromatic pattern which reappears again in the coda. Although the piece opens and ends in A-flat major, it shifts throughout its three parts to many other keys, A, G, D-sharp, F-sharp and B among them.\n\nLa leggierezza (meaning \"lightness\") is the second étude. It is a monothematic piece in F minor with a very simple melodic line for each hand under an unusual \"Quasi allegretto\" tempo marking, usually ignored in favour of something slightly more frenetic. It starts with a fast but delicate sixteen chromatic-note arpeggio divided in thirds and sixths under an irregular rhythmic subdivision and cadenza so as to underline the atmosphere implied in its title. The technical difficulties involved in playing the piece include rapid \"leggiero\" chromatic runs, often with irregular rhythmic groupings, and passages in sixths and thirds. An \"ossia\" for the right hand involving brilliant runs in minor thirds is almost universally preferred by performers.\n\n\"La leggierezza\" often included an alternate ending written by Polish teacher Theodor Leschetizky. Two of his students, Ignacy Jan Paderewski and Benno Moiseiwitsch, performed and recorded this variation. The Paderewski recording includes the full \"Leschetizky ending,\" while the recording by Moiseiwitsch includes his own abbreviated version of the Leschetizky ending. Simon Barere recorded the piece with an abbreviated version of the Leschetizky coda with critical results in the press.\n\nThe third of the Three Concert Études is in D-flat major, and is usually known as Un sospiro (Italian for \"A sigh\"). However, it is likely that the title did not originate with Liszt. Although there is no evidence that he actively attempted to remove the subtitle, none of the editions or subsequent printings of the Three Concert Études published by Kistner during Liszt's lifetime used them; he simply ignored such subtitles in later years, always referring to the piece by key.\n\nThe étude is a study in crossing hands, playing a simple melody with alternating hands, and arpeggios. It is also a study in the way hands should affect the melody with its many accentuations, or phrasing with alternating hands. The melody is quite dramatic, almost Impressionistic, radically changing in dynamics at times, and has inspired many listeners. The étude has been considered by many pianists as one of the most beautiful piano pieces ever composed. Liszt kept the étude in his repertoire until his final years.\n\n\"Un sospiro\" consists of a flowing background superimposed by a simple melody written in the third staff. This third staff—an additional treble staff—is written with the direction to the performer that notes with the stem up are for the right hand and notes with the stem down are for the left hand. The background alternates between the left and right hands in such a way that for most of the piece, while the left hand is playing the harmony, the right hand is playing the melody, and vice versa, with the left hand crossing over the right as it continues the melody for a short while before regressing again. There are also small cadenza sections requiring delicate fingerwork throughout the middle section of the piece.\n\nTowards the end, after the main climax of the piece, both hands are needed to cross in an even more complex pattern. Since there are so many notes to be played rapidly and they are too far away from other clusters of notes that must be played as well, the hands are required to cross multiple times to reach dramatic notes near the end of the piece on the last page.\n\nThis étude, along with the other Three concert études, was written in dedication to Liszt's uncle, Eduard Liszt (1817–1879), the youngest son of Liszt's grandfather and the stepbrother of his own father. Eduard handled Liszt's business affairs for more than thirty years until his death in 1879.\n\n\"Un Sospiro\" has been recorded by many well-known pianists including Van Cliburn, Jorge Bolet, Claudio Arrau, Marc-André Hamelin, Daniil Trifonov and Jan Lisiecki.\n\nThe piece has appeared in a number of films and television series, including:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1906081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906081", "title": "Melissani Cave", "text": "Melissani Cave\n\nMelissani Cave () or Melissani Lake, also Melisani is a cave located on the island of Kefalonia, northwest of Sami, about Southeast of Agia Effimia, Northeast of Argostoli and Northwest of Poros. The Ionian Sea lies to the east with the Strait of Ithaca. Forests surround the cave and the mountain slope is to the west. Near the cave is the entry to the cave with parking lots and is passed almost in the middle of the main road linking Sami and Agia Efimia especially to the northern part of the island. Some say the water is so clear the boats look like they are floating.\n\n\n\nIn Greek mythology, Melissani was the Cave of the Nymphs. It features a lake surrounded with trees and forest, and is located east of the mountains of Evmorfia and Agia Dynati. Tourism is common.\n\nThe lake's bottom is covered with stones. Plants grow at the opening of the cave. The color of the stone near the opening is stucco to honey-like brown.\n\nThe cave was rediscovered in 1951 by Giannis Petrocheilos.\n\nMelissani cave is a typical feature of karst environment in coastal carbonate aquifer. It forms a kind of cenote, as described in the Yucatán peninsula (Mexico). The vertical shaft gives access to the water table (where you can do a round trip on a small boat). This groundwater is brackish, mixing between fresh water recharge inland and sea water intruded in depth in the island. Huge karst conduits have been explored by speleo-divers. The bay of Sami has many cenotes, with impressive shafts, that have been inventoried in a GIS Database [see external links]. The brackish water flowing through the cenotes outflows along the sea shore, forming brackish coastal and submarine springs. The groundwater of Melissani cave outflows at the \"Fridi\" beach. This brackish water is part of a famous hydrogeological phenomena : seawater is sucked in the west part of the island of Kefalonia, near Argostoli, and expelled in the bay of Sami. In Argostoli, the seawater flows into sinkholes, named katavothres, where water mill turns.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1906083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906083", "title": "Yazawa", "text": "Yazawa\n\nYazawa (written: 矢沢, 矢澤, 谷沢 or 谷澤) is a Japanese surname. Notable people with the surname include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1906087", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906087", "title": "Bharathidasan University", "text": "Bharathidasan University\n\nBharathidasan University (BDU) is a university in the city of Tiruchirapalli, Tamil Nadu, India. It is located on Tiruchirappalli-Pudukkottai National Highway 336. It has affiliated colleges in the districts of Karur, Nagapattinam, Perambalur, Pudukkottai, district, Tiruvarur and Tiruchirapalli. It is a recognised university, supported by the University Grants Commission of India. All major faculties of science and arts are represented\n\nThe university has the following faculties and schools:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) ranked Bharathidasan University 94 overall in India and 67 among universities in 2018.\n\n"}
{"id": "1906088", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906088", "title": "Hieromartyr", "text": "Hieromartyr\n\nIn the Eastern Orthodox tradition, a hieromartyr is a martyr (one who dies for his beliefs) who was a bishop or priest. Analogously, a monk who is a priest is known as a hieromonk.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1906090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906090", "title": "Democratic Alternative (Malta)", "text": "Democratic Alternative (Malta)\n\nDemocratic Alternative (), sometimes referred to as AD – The Green Party, is a green political party in Malta. The party was initially founded by a coalition of former Labour Party members and environmental activists in 1989.\n\nAlternattiva Demokratika was founded in 1989 when former Malta Labour Party President Toni Abela and former Labour MP and Parliamentary whip Wenzu Mintoff joined a number of environmental activists to form the new political party. Abela and Mintoff had resigned their posts in protest to the presence of certain elements in the Labour Party tainted with political violence and corruption. For this Abela and Mintoff were expelled from the Labour Party. Mintoff retained his seat in Parliament and, between 1989 and 1992 was effectively an MP for the new party as well as its first Chairperson.\n\nAlternattiva Demokratika first stood for the 1992 national elections when it obtained 1.69% of first preference votes (their best result in a general election until 2013) and no seats. In the subsequent elections of 1996 and 1998 the Party's share of the vote declined. Following the 1998 result, Abela and Mintoff resigned and returned to the Labour Party (Abela was to be elected Labour's Deputy Leader in 2008).\n\nHarry Vassallo replaced Mintoff as Chairperson of the Party in 1998. In 2003 the party campaigned for a \"Yes\" vote in the referendum on membership in the European Union but the declining trend in general elections continued and in election that year the Party obtained only 0.7% of first preference votes. In 2004 the party obtained a remarkable result in the European Parliament election with 9.33% of first preference votes cast and the party's candidate, Arnold Cassola narrowly failing to be elected as MEP.\n\nIn the Maltese general election of 2008, the party increased its share of the vote to 1.31%. After ten years at the helm, Vassallo resigned as Chairperson and was replaced by Cassola. Barely a year later Cassola handed his resignation following the Party's poor showing at the European Parliament Election in June 2009. Cassola was replaced by Michael Briguglio in October 2009.\n\nAlternattiva Demokratika holds one seat in the Local Council of Attard.\n\nIn the general election of 2013, Alternattiva Demokratika obtained its best ever result with 5,506 votes (1.8%) in total across all districts where they ran candidates but failed to win a seat in parliament. The party's best result was in District 10 where then party leader Michael Briguglio received 741 first preference votes and a further 154 transfers before being eliminated after the 17th count. The quota for that district was 3,679 votes. After the election some Democratic Alternative supporters claimed this raised a number of issues regarding representation. Talks are expected to take place during a constitutional convention with regards to addressing anomalies with the current Maltese electoral system.\n\nAlternattiva Demokratika entered into preliminary coalition negotiations with the Nationalist Party in April 2017 to determine if they could cooperate to unseat the Labour government. The talks broke down when AD's proposal of a coalition running under a separate name, 'Qawsalla' (\"Rainbow\"), with a new policy platform was rejected by the Nationalists, who were willing to form the coalition only if AD candidates ran under the Nationalist ticket.\n\nIn the 1990s, Alternattiva Demokratika had its own newspaper publication, \"Alternattiva\", whose editor in chief from 1989 until 1991 was Harry Vassallo, and its own radio station, Capital Radio.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1906092", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906092", "title": "Lucien Saulnier", "text": "Lucien Saulnier\n\nLucien Saulnier, (July 25, 1916 – June 22, 1989) was a Canadian politician. He was chair of the Montreal Urban Community during the October Crisis. He was also Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Société de développement industriel du Québec.\n\nSaulnier was elected to the Montreal City Council in 1954, working with the \"Ligue d'Action Civique\". In 1960, he co-founded Montreal's Civic Party with Jean Drapeau. From 1960 to 1969, Saulnier was the chair of the executive committee and was head of the Montreal Urban Community.\n\nIn 1972, he left politics and held positions with public agencies including Hydro-Québec.\n\nIn 1971 he was made a Companion of the Order of Canada \"for services rendered as an administrator\".\n"}
{"id": "1906095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906095", "title": "Analog", "text": "Analog\n\nAnalog or analogue may refer to:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1906100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906100", "title": "Carol Costello", "text": "Carol Costello\n\nCarol Costello (born October 11, 1961) is an American television commentator and former host of \"CNN Newsroom\". In 2017, she left CNN to join sister network HLN, based in Los Angeles. In October 2018, HLN announced that Costello (and the hosts of two other news programs) would be let go, with the final broadcast of her show taking place on October 26.\n\nCostello is a graduate of Minerva High School, a public high school in Minerva, Ohio, and Kent State University where she earned a B.A. in journalism. After attending Kent State University, Costello worked at Akron, Ohio's WAKR-TV as an award-winning police and court reporter. Following that Costello was an Emmy-award-winning anchor/reporter for WSYX, the ABC affiliate, and WBNS 10-TV, the CBS affiliate in Columbus, Ohio. She also worked as the 6 and 11pm news anchor for WBAL-TV in Baltimore between 1992 and 1995.\n\nCostello worked as an anchor at CNN Headline News (now called HLN) and was also the anchor of \"Good Morning Washington\" and an investigative reporter at WJLA-TV, the ABC affiliate in Washington, D.C., during the September 11 attacks.\n\nShe previously worked out of the network's New York City bureau. She was part of CNN's Peabody-winning coverage of Hurricane Katrina and the 2008 presidential election, and also covered the Virginia Tech massacre, the inauguration of Barack Obama and the Casey Anthony trial. Costello has done in-depth reporting on bullying, coal ash, and women's issues. After a CNN viewer nominated her, Costello ran with the Olympic torch through the streets of Atlanta prior to the Atlanta Olympics.\n\nAs a reporter and anchor, Costello has interviewed Jimmy Carter, Bill Clinton, Hillary Clinton and George H. W. Bush. Previously, Costello anchored the CNN early morning program \"CNN Daybreak\" and also was news reader and correspondent on \"American Morning\". She was the anchor of \"CNN Daybreak\", then a New York-based correspondent, and subsequently a contributor to \"The Situation Room\". Costello hosted the 9 am–11 am slot of \"CNN Newsroom\", based out of CNN's New York news bureau.\n\nCostello elicited criticism when she referred to audio of Bristol Palin describing an assault on her to police as \"quite possibly the best minute and a half of audio we've ever come across.\" Paul Bedard called Costello's \"rude and crude enjoyment\" an easy slap by a prominent female media star on a young woman. Costello later stated that \"in retrospect, I deserve such criticism and would like to apologize.\"\n\nOn January 30, 2017, Costello announced that she would return to HLN to host a new program from Los Angeles.\n\nOn October 16, 2018 it was announced by HLN that Costello was to be laid off, along with Michaela Pereira and Ashleigh Banfield, as part of the network's decision to scale back their live news programming. The final broadcasts for all three presenters took place on Friday, October 26, 2018.\n\nA former resident of Atlanta, Georgia, Costello moved to the New York area after marrying Timothy Law Snyder in 2004. She and Snyder later moved to Baltimore, Maryland. In October 2015, Snyder was named president of Loyola Marymount University in Los Angeles. In January 2017, Costello cited her husband's relocation as a primary factor in her decision to leave CNN for HLN and move to Los Angeles.\n\nIn April 2015, Costello wrote that she became a \"lapsed Catholic\" after losing her younger brother Jimmy to cancer when she was 25. However, she stated that Pope Francis \"reawakened my faith\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1906103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906103", "title": "Human reproductive system", "text": "Human reproductive system\n\nHuman reproduction involves internal fertilization by sexual intercourse. In this process, the male inserts his penis into the female's vagina and ejaculates semen, which contains sperm. A small proportion of the sperm pass through the cervix into the uterus, and then into the Fallopian tubes for fertilization of the ovum. Only one sperm is required to fertilize the ovum. Upon successful fertilization, the fertilized ovum, or zygote, travels out of the fallopian tube and into the uterus, where it implants in the uterine wall. This marks the beginning of gestation, better known as pregnancy, which continues for around nine months as the foetus develops. When the foetus has developed to a certain point, pregnancy is concluded with childbirth, involving labor. During labor, the muscles of the uterus contract and the cervix dilates over the course of hours, and the baby passes out of the vagina. Human infants are nearly helpless and require high levels of parental care. Infants rely on their caregivers for comfort, cleanliness, and food. Food may be provided by breastfeeding or formula feeding.\n\nThe male reproductive system is a series of organs located outside the body and around the pelvis region of a male that contribute towards the reproduction process. The primary direct function of the male reproductive system is to provide the male sperm for fertilization of the ovum.\n\nThe major reproductive organs of the male can be grouped into three categories. The first category produces and stores sperm (spermatozoa). These are produced in the testes, which are housed in the temperature-regulating scrotum; immature sperm then travel to the epididymis for development and storage. The second category are the ejaculatory fluid producing glands which include the Cowper's gland (also called bulbo-urethral gland), seminal vesicles, prostate, and vas deferens. The final category are those used for copulation and deposition of the sperm within the female; these include the penis, urethra, and vas deferens.\n\nMajor secondary sexual characteristics include: larger, more muscular stature, deepened voice, facial and body hair, broad shoulders, and development of an Adam's apple. An important sexual hormone of males is androgen, and particularly testosterone.\n\nThe testes release a hormone that controls the development of sperm. This hormone is also responsible for the development of physical characteristics in men such as facial hair and a deep voice.\n\nThe human female reproductive system is a series of organs primarily located inside the body and around the pelvic region of a female that contribute towards the reproductive process. The human female reproductive system contains three main parts: the vulva, which leads to the vagina, the vaginal opening, to the uterus; the uterus, which holds the developing fetus; and the ovaries, which produce the female's ova. The breasts are involved during the parenting stage of reproduction, but in most classifications they are not considered to be part of the female reproductive system.\n\nThe vagina meets the outside at the vulva, which also includes the labia, clitoris and urethra; during intercourse this area is lubricated by mucus secreted by the Bartholin's glands. The vagina is attached to the uterus through the cervix, while the uterus is attached to the ovaries via the Fallopian tubes. Each ovary contains hundreds of egg cells or ova (singular \"ovum\").\n\nApproximately every 28 days, the pituitary gland releases a hormone that stimulates some of the ova to develop and grow. One ovum is released and it passes through the Fallopian tube into the uterus. Hormones produced by the ovaries prepare the uterus to receive the ovum. The lining of the uterus, called the endometrium, and unfertilized ova are shed each cycle through the process of menstruation. If the ovum is fertilized by sperm, it attaches to the endometrium and the fetus develops.\n\nThe development of the reproductive system and the development of the urinary system are closely tied in with the development of the human fetus. Despite the differences between the adult female and male are derived from the intermediate mesoderm. The three main fetal precursors of the reproductive organs are the Wolffian duct, the Müllerian ducts, and the gonads. Endocrine hormones are a well-known and critical controlling factor in the normal differentiation of the reproductive system.\n\nThe Wolffian duct forms the epididymis, vas deferens, ductus deferens, ejaculatory duct, and seminal vesicle in the male reproductive system, but essentially disappears in the female reproductive system. The reverse is true for the Müllerian duct, as it essentially disappears in the male reproductive system and forms the Fallopian tubes, uterus, and vagina in the female system. In both sexes the gonads go on to form the testes and ovaries; because they are derived from the same undeveloped structure, they are considered homologous organs. There are a number of other homologous structures shared between male and female reproductive systems. However, despite the similarity in function of the female Fallopian tubes and the male epididymis and vas deferens, they are not homologous but rather analogous structures as they arise from different fetal structures.\n\nGametes are produced within the gonads through a process known as gametogenesis. This occurs when certain types of germ cells undergo meiosis to split the normal diploid number of chromosomes (n=46) into haploid cells containing only 23 chromosomes.\n\nIn females, gametogenesis is known as oogenesis; this occurs in the ovarian follicles of the ovaries. This process does not produce mature ovum until puberty. In contrast with males, each of the original diploid germ cells or primary oocytes will form only one mature ovum, and three polar bodies which are not capable of fertilization. It has long been understood that in females, unlike males, all of the primary oocytes ever found in a female will be created prior to birth, and that the final stages of ova production will then not resume until puberty. However, recent scientific research has challenged that hypothesis. This new research indicates that in at least some species of mammal, oocytes continue to be replenished in females well after birth.\n\nLike all complex organ systems, the human reproductive system is affected by many diseases. There are four main categories of reproductive diseases in humans. They are:\n\n\nSpecific reproductive diseases are often symptoms of other diseases and disorders, or have multiple, or unknown causes making them difficult to classify. Examples of unclassifiable disorders are Peyronie's disease in males and endometriosis in females. Many congenital conditions cause reproductive abnormalities, but are better known for their other symptoms. These include: Turner syndrome, Klinefelter's syndrome, Cystic fibrosis, and Bloom syndrome.\n"}
{"id": "1906105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906105", "title": "List of songs produced by Stock Aitken Waterman", "text": "List of songs produced by Stock Aitken Waterman\n\nThis is a partial list of songs that were produced by English production trio Stock Aitken Waterman.\n\n Originally produced by Jolley & Swain in 1986, for the album and U.S single version. It was then remixed by SAW and released as a single in the U.K.\n\nOriginally recorded in 1990 but never released until its appearance in a 1995 dance compilation in an extended version. A full release with various mixes and a 7\" version was released in 2009 through iTunes.\n\nOriginally recorded in 1990 but never released until its appearance in a 1997 dance compilation in an extended version. A full release with various mixes and a 7\" version was released in 2009 through iTunes.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nOfficial Website\n\nMike Stock Official Site \n"}
{"id": "1906107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906107", "title": "Transtheoretical model", "text": "Transtheoretical model\n\nThe transtheoretical model of behavior change is an integrative theory of therapy that assesses an individual's readiness to act on a new healthier behavior, and provides strategies, or processes of change to guide the individual. The model is composed of constructs such as: stages of change, processes of change, levels of change, self-efficacy, and decisional balance.\n\nThe transtheoretical model is also known by the abbreviation \"TTM\" and sometimes by the term \"stages of change\", although this latter term is a synecdoche since the stages of change are only one part of the model along with processes of change, levels of change, etc. Several self-help books—\"Changing for Good\" (1994), \"Changeology\" (2012), and \"Changing to Thrive\" (2016)—and articles in the news media have discussed the model. It has been called \"arguably the dominant model of health behaviour change, having received unprecedented research attention, yet it has simultaneously attracted criticism\".\nJames O. Prochaska of the University of Rhode Island, and Carlo Di Clemente and colleagues developed the transtheoretical model beginning in 1977. It is based on analysis and use of different theories of psychotherapy, hence the name \"transtheoretical\".\n\nProchaska and colleagues refined the model on the basis of research that they published in peer-reviewed journals and books.\n\nThis construct refers to the temporal dimension of behavioural change. In the transtheoretical model, change is a \"process involving progress through a series of stages\":\n\nIn addition, the researchers conceptualized \"Relapse\" (recycling) which is not a stage in itself but rather the \"return from Action or Maintenance to an earlier stage\".\n\nThe quantitative definition of the stages of change (see below) is perhaps the most well-known feature of the model. However it is also one of the most critiqued, even in the field of smoking cessation, where it was originally formulated. It has been said that such quantitative definition (i.e. a person is in preparation if he intends to change within a month) does not reflect the nature of behaviour change, that it does not have better predictive power than simpler questions (i.e. \"do you have plans to change...\"), and that it has problems regarding its classification reliability.\n\nCommunication theorist and sociologist Everett Rogers suggested that the stages of change are analogues of the stages of the innovation adoption process in Rogers' theory of diffusion of innovations.\n\nStage 1: Precontemplation (not ready)\n\nPeople at this stage do not intend to start the healthy behavior in the near future (within 6 months), and may be unaware of the need to change. People here learn more about healthy behavior: they are encouraged to think about the pros of changing their behavior and to feel emotions about the effects of their negative behavior on others.\n\nPrecontemplators typically underestimate the pros of changing, overestimate the cons, and often are not aware of making such mistakes.\n\nOne of the most effective steps that others can help with at this stage is to encourage them to become more mindful of their decision making and more conscious of the multiple benefits of changing an unhealthy behavior.\n\nStage 2: Contemplation (getting ready)\n\nAt this stage, participants are intending to start the healthy behavior within the next 6 months. While they are usually now more aware of the pros of changing, their cons are about equal to their Pros. This ambivalence about changing can cause them to keep putting off taking action.\n\nPeople here learn about the kind of person they could be if they changed their behavior and learn more from people who behave in healthy ways.\n\nOthers can influence and help effectively at this stage by encouraging them to work at reducing the cons of changing their behavior.\n\nStage 3: Preparation (ready)\n\nPeople at this stage are ready to start taking action within the next 30 days. They take small steps that they believe can help them make the healthy behavior a part of their lives. For example, they tell their friends and family that they want to change their behavior.\n\nPeople in this stage should be encouraged to seek support from friends they trust, tell people about their plan to change the way they act, and think about how they would feel if they behaved in a healthier way. Their number one concern is: when they act, will they fail? They learn that the better prepared they are, the more likely they are to keep progressing.\n\nStage 4: Action (current action)\n\nPeople at this stage have changed their behavior within the last 6 months and need to work hard to keep moving ahead. These participants need to learn how to strengthen their commitments to change and to fight urges to slip back.\n\nPeople in this stage progress by being taught techniques for keeping up their commitments such as substituting activities related to the unhealthy behavior with positive ones, rewarding themselves for taking steps toward changing, and avoiding people and situations that tempt them to behave in unhealthy ways.\n\nStage 5: Maintenance (monitoring)\n\nPeople at this stage changed their behavior more than 6 months ago. It is important for people in this stage to be aware of situations that may tempt them to slip back into doing the unhealthy behavior—particularly stressful situations.\n\nIt is recommended that people in this stage seek support from and talk with people whom they trust, spend time with people who behave in healthy ways, and remember to engage in healthy activities (such as exercise and deep relaxation) to cope with stress instead of relying on unhealthy behavior.\n\nRelapse (recycling)\n\nRelapse in the TTM specifically applies to individuals who successfully quit smoking or using drugs or alcohol, only to resume these unhealthy behaviors. Individuals who attempt to quit highly addictive behaviors such as drug, alcohol, and tobacco use are at particularly high risk of a relapse. Achieving a long-term behavior change often requires ongoing support from family members, a health coach, a physician, or another motivational source. Supportive literature and other resources can also be helpful to avoid a relapse from happening.\n\nThe 10 processes of change are \"covert and overt activities that people use to progress through the stages\".\n\nTo progress through the early stages, people apply cognitive, affective, and evaluative processes. As people move toward Action and Maintenance, they rely more on commitments, counter conditioning, rewards, environmental controls, and support.\n\nProchaska and colleagues state that their research related to the transtheoretical model shows that interventions to change behavior are more effective if they are \"stage-matched\", that is, \"matched to each individual's stage of change\".\n\nIn general, for people to progress they need:\n\nThe ten \"processes of change\" include:\n\nHealth researchers have extended Prochaska's and DiClemente's 10 original processes of change by an additional 21 processes. In the first edition of \"Planning Health Promotion Programs\", Bartholomew et al. (2006) summarised the processes that they identified in a number of studies; however, their extended list of processes was removed from later editions of the text, perhaps because the list mixes techniques with processes. There are unlimited ways of applying processes. The additional strategies of Bartholomew et al. were:\n\nWhile most of these processes and strategies are associated with health interventions such as stress management, exercise, healthy eating, smoking cessation and other addictive behaviour, some of them are also used in travel interventions. Some processes are recommended in a specific stage, while others can be used in one or more stages. Recently, these processes have been identified in travel interventions, broadening the scope of TTM in other research domains.\n\nThis core construct \"reflects the individual's relative weighing of the pros and cons of changing\". Decision making was conceptualized by Janis and Mann as a \"decisional balance sheet\" of comparative potential gains and losses. Decisional balance measures, the pros and the cons, have become critical constructs in the transtheoretical model. The pros and cons combine to form a decisional \"balance sheet\" of comparative potential gains and losses. The balance between the pros and cons varies depending on which stage of change the individual is in.\n\nSound decision making requires the consideration of the potential benefits (pros) and costs (cons) associated with a behavior's consequences. TTM research has found the following relationships between the pros, cons, and the stage of change across 48 behaviors and over 100 populations studied.\n\nThe evaluation of pros and cons is part of the formation of decisional balance. During the change process, individuals gradually increase the pros and decrease the cons forming a more positive balance towards the target behaviour. Attitudes are one of the core constructs explaining behaviour and behaviour change in various research domains. Other behaviour models, such as the theory of planned behavior (TPB) and the stage model of self-regulated change, also emphasise attitude as an important determinant of behaviour. The progression through the different stages of change is reflected in a gradual change in attitude before the individual acts. Most of the processes of change aim at evaluating and reevaluating as well as reinforcing specific elements of the current and target behaviour.\n\nDue to the use of decisional balance and attitude, travel behaviour researchers have begun to combine the TTM with the TPB. Forward uses the TPB variables to better differentiate the different stages. Especially all TPB variables (attitude, perceived behaviour control, descriptive and subjective norm) are positively show a gradually increasing relationship to stage of change for bike commuting. As expected, intention or willingness to perform the behaviour increases by stage. Similarly, Bamberg uses various behavior models, including the transtheoretical model, theory of planned behavior and norm-activation model, to build the stage model of self-regulated behavior change (SSBC). Bamberg claims that his model is a solution to criticism raised towards the TTM. Some researchers in travel, dietary, and environmental research have conducted empirical studies, showing that the SSBC might be a future path for TTM-based research.\n\nThis core construct is \"the situation-specific confidence people have that they can cope with high-risk situations without relapsing to their unhealthy or high risk-habit\". The construct is based on Bandura's self-efficacy theory and conceptualizes a person's perceived ability to perform on a task as a mediator of performance on future tasks. In his research Bandura already established that greater levels of perceived self-efficacy leads to greater changes in behavior. Similarly, Ajzen mentions the similarity between the concepts of self-efficacy and perceived behavioral control. This underlines the integrative nature of the transtheoretical model which combines various behavior theories. A change in the level of self-efficacy can predict a lasting change in behavior if there are adequate incentives and skills. The transtheoretical model employs an overall confidence score to assess an individual's self-efficacy. Situational temptations assess how tempted people are to engage in a problem behavior in a certain situation.\n\nThis core construct identifies the depth or complexity of presenting problems according to five levels of increasing complexity. Different therapeutic approaches are recommended for each level as well as for each stage of change. The levels are:\n\n\nThe outcomes of the TTM computerized tailored interventions administered to participants in pre-Action stages are outlined below.\n\nA national sample of pre-Action adults was provided a stress management intervention. At the 18-month follow-up, a significantly larger proportion of the treatment group (62%) was effectively managing their stress when compared to the control group. The intervention also produced statistically significant reductions in stress and depression and an increase in the use of stress management techniques when compared to the control group. Two additional clinical trials of TTM programs by Prochaska et al. and Jordan et al. also found significantly larger proportions of treatment groups effectively managing stress when compared to control groups.\n\nOver 1,000 members of a New England group practice who were prescribed antihypertensive medication participated in an adherence to antihypertensive medication intervention. The vast majority (73%) of the intervention group who were previously pre-Action were adhering to their prescribed medication regimen at the 12-month follow-up when compared to the control group.\n\nMembers of a large New England health plan and various employer groups who were prescribed a cholesterol lowering medication participated in an adherence to lipid-lowering drugs intervention. More than half of the intervention group (56%) who were previously pre-Action were adhering to their prescribed medication regimen at the 18-month follow-up. Additionally, only 15% of those in the intervention group who were already in Action or Maintenance relapsed into poor medication adherence compared to 45% of the controls. Further, participants who were at risk for physical activity and unhealthy diet were given only stage-based guidance. The treatment group doubled the control group in the percentage in Action or Maintenance at 18 months for physical activity (43%) and diet (25%).\n\nParticipants were 350 primary care patients experiencing at least mild depression but not involved in treatment or planning to seek treatment for depression in the next 30 days. Patients receiving the TTM intervention experienced significantly greater symptom reduction during the 9-month follow-up period. The intervention's largest effects were observed among patients with moderate or severe depression, and who were in the Precontemplation or Contemplation stage of change at baseline. For example, among patients in the Precontemplation or Contemplation stage, rates of reliable and clinically significant improvement in depression were 40% for treatment and 9% for control. Among patients with mild depression, or who were in the Action or Maintenance stage at baseline, the intervention helped prevent disease progression to Major Depression during the follow-up period.\n\nFive-hundred-and-seventy-seven overweight or moderately obese adults (BMI 25-39.9) were recruited nationally, primarily from large employers. Those randomly assigned to the treatment group received a stage-matched multiple behavior change guide and a series of tailored, individualized interventions for three health behaviors that are crucial to effective weight management: healthy eating (i.e., reducing calorie and dietary fat intake), moderate exercise, and managing emotional distress without eating. Up to three tailored reports (one per behavior) were delivered based on assessments conducted at four time points: baseline, 3, 6, and 9 months. All participants were followed up at 6, 12, and 24 months. Multiple Imputation was used to estimate missing data. Generalized Labor Estimating Equations (GLEE) were then used to examine differences between the treatment and comparison groups. At 24 months, those who were in a pre-Action stage for healthy eating at baseline and received treatment were significantly more likely to have reached Action or Maintenance than the comparison group (47.5% vs. 34.3%). The intervention also impacted a related, but untreated behavior: fruit and vegetable consumption. Over 48% of those in the treatment group in a pre-Action stage at baseline progressed to Action or Maintenance for eating at least 5 servings a day of fruit and vegetables as opposed to 39% of the comparison group. Individuals in the treatment group who were in a pre-Action stage for exercise at baseline were also significantly more likely to reach Action or Maintenance (44.9% vs. 38.1%). The treatment also had a significant effect on managing emotional distress without eating, with 49.7% of those in a pre-Action stage at baseline moving to Action or Maintenance versus 30.3% of the comparison group. The groups differed on weight lost at 24 months among those in a pre-Action stage for healthy eating and exercise at baseline. Among those in a pre-Action stage for both healthy eating and exercise at baseline, 30% of those randomized to the treatment group lost 5% or more of their body weight vs. 16.6% in the comparison group. Coaction of behavior change occurred and was much more pronounced in the treatment group with the treatment group losing significantly more than the comparison group. This study demonstrates the ability of TTM-based tailored feedback to improve healthy eating, exercise, managing emotional distress, and weight on a population basis. The treatment produced the highest population impact to date on multiple health risk behaviors.\n\nMultiple studies have found individualized interventions tailored on the 14 TTM variables for smoking cessation to effectively recruit and retain pre-Action participants and produce long-term abstinence rates within the range of 22% – 26%. These interventions have also consistently outperformed alternative interventions including best-in-class action-oriented self-help programs, non-interactive manual-based programs, and other common interventions. Furthermore, these interventions continued to move pre-Action participants to abstinence even after the program ended. For a summary of smoking cessation clinical outcomes, see Velicer, Redding, Sun, & Prochaska, 2007 and Jordan, Evers, Spira, King & Lid, 2013.\n\nIn the treatment of smoke control, TTM focuses on each stage to monitor and to achieve a progression to the next stage.\n\nIn each stage, a patient may have multiple sources that could influence their behavior. These may include: friends, books, and interactions with their healthcare providers. These factors could potentially influence how successful a patient may be in moving through the different stages. This stresses the importance to have continuous monitoring and efforts to maintain progress at each stage. TTM helps guide the treatment process at each stage, and may assist the healthcare provider in making an optimal therapeutic decision.\n\nThe use of TTM in travel behaviour interventions is rather novel. A number of cross-sectional studies investigated the individual constructs of TTM, e.g. stage of change, decisional balance and self-efficacy, with regards to transport mode choice. The cross-sectional studies identified both motivators and barriers at the different stages regarding biking, walking and public transport. The motivators identified were e.g. liking to bike/walk, avoiding congestion and improved fitness. Perceived barriers were e.g. personal fitness, time and the weather. This knowledge was used to design interventions that would address attitudes and misconceptions to encourage an increased use of bikes and walking. These interventions aim at changing people's travel behaviour towards more sustainable and more active transport modes. In health-related studies, TTM is used to help people walk or bike more instead of using the car. Most intervention studies aim to reduce car trips for commute to achieve the minimum recommended physical activity levels of 30 minutes per day. Other intervention studies using TTM aim to encourage sustainable behaviour. By reducing single occupied motor vehicle and replacing them with so called sustainable transport (public transport, car pooling, biking or walking), greenhouse gas emissions can be reduced considerably. A reduction in the number of cars on our roads solves other problems such as congestion, traffic noise and traffic accidents. By combining health and environment related purposes, the message becomes stronger. Additionally, by emphasising personal health, physical activity or even direct economic impact, people see a direct result from their changed behaviour, while saving the environment is a more general and effects are not directly noticeable.\n\nDifferent outcome measures were used to assess the effectiveness of the intervention. Health-centred intervention studies measured BMI, weight, waist circumference as well as general health. However, only one of three found a significant change in general health, while BMI and other measures had no effect. Measures that are associated with both health and sustainability were more common. Effects were reported as number of car trips, distance travelled, main mode share etc. Results varied due to greatly differing approaches. In general, car use could be reduced between 6% and 55%, while use of the alternative mode (walking, biking and/or public transport) increased between 11% and 150%. These results indicate a shift to action or maintenance stage, some researchers investigated attitude shifts such as the willingness to change. Attitudes towards using alternative modes improved with approximately 20% to 70%. Many of the intervention studies did not clearly differentiate between the five stages, but categorised participants in pre-action and action stage. This approach makes it difficult to assess the effects per stage. Also, interventions included different processes of change; in many cases these processes are not matched to the recommended stage. It highlights the need to develop a standardised approach for travel intervention design. Identifying and assessing which processes are most effective in the context of travel behaviour change should be a priority in the future in order to secure the role of TTM in travel behaviour research.\n\nThe TTM has been called \"arguably the dominant model of health behaviour change, having received unprecedented research attention, yet it has simultaneously attracted criticism\". Depending on the field of application (e.g. smoking cessation, substance abuse, condom use, diabetes treatment, obesity and travel) somewhat different criticisms have been raised.\n\nIn a systematic review, published in 2003, of 23 randomized controlled trials, the authors found that \"stage based interventions are no more effective than non-stage based interventions or no intervention in changing smoking behaviour. However, it was also mentioned that stage based interventions are often used and implemented inadequately in practice. Thus, criticism is directed towards the use rather the effectiveness of the model itself. Looking at interventions targeting smoking cessation in pregnancy found that stage-matched interventions were more effective than non-matched interventions. One reason for this was the greater intensity of stage-matched interventions. Also, the use of stage-based interventions for smoking cessation in mental illness proved to be effective. Further studies, e.g. a randomized controlled trial published in 2009, found no evidence that a TTM based smoking cessation intervention was more effective than a control intervention not tailored to stage of change. The study claims that those not wanting to change (i.e. precontemplators) tend to be responsive to neither stage nor non-stage based interventions. Since stage-based interventions tend to be more intensive they appear to be most effective at targeting contemplators and above rather than pre-contemplators. A 2010 systematic review of smoking cessation studies under the auspices of the Cochrane Collaboration found that \"stage-based self-help interventions (expert systems and/or tailored materials) and individual counselling were neither more nor less effective than their non-stage-based equivalents.\n\nMain criticism is raised regarding the \"arbitrary dividing lines\" that are drawn between the stages. West claimed that a more coherent and distinguishable definition for the stages is needed. Especially the fact that the stages are bound to a specific time interval is perceived to be misleading. Additionally, the effectiveness of stage-based interventions differs depending on the behavior. A continuous version of the model has been proposed, where each process is first increasingly used, and then decreases in importance, as smokers make progress along some latent dimension. This proposal suggests the use of processes without reference to stages of change.\n\nThe model \"assumes that individuals typically make coherent and stable plans\", when in fact they often do not.\n\nWithin research on prevention of pregnancy and sexually transmitted diseases a systematic review from 2003 comes to the conclusion that \"no strong conclusions\" can be drawn about the effectiveness of interventions based on the transtheoretical model. Again this conclusion is reached due to the inconsistency of use and implementation of the model. This study also confirms that the better stage-matched the intervention the more effect it has to encourage condom use.\n\nWithin the health research domain, a 2005 systematic review of 37 randomized controlled trials claims that \"there was limited evidence for the effectiveness of stage-based interventions as a basis for behavior change. Studies with which focused on increasing physical activity levels through active commute however showed that stage-matched interventions tended to have slightly more effect than non-stage matched interventions. Since many studies do not use all constructs of the TTM, additional research suggested that the effectiveness of interventions increases the better it is tailored on all core constructs of the TTM in addition to stage of change. In diabetes research the \"existing data are insufficient for drawing conclusions on the benefits of the transtheoretical model\" as related to dietary interventions. Again, studies with slightly different design, e.g. using different processes, proved to be effective in predicting the stage transition of intention to exercise in relation to treating patients with diabetes.\n\nTTM has generally found a greater popularity regarding research on physical activity, due to the increasing problems associated with unhealthy diets and sedentary living, e.g. obesity, cardiovascular problems. A 2011 Cochrane Systematic Review found that there is little evidence to suggest that using the Transtheoretical Model Stages of Change (TTM SOC) method is effective in helping obese and overweight people lose weight. There were only five studies in the Review, two of which were later dropped due to not being relevant since they did not measure weight. Earlier in a 2009 paper, the TTM was considered to be useful in promoting physical activity. In this study, the algorithms and questionnaires that researchers used to assign people to stages of change lacked standardisation to be compared empirically, or validated.\n\nSimilar criticism regarding the standardisation as well as consistency in the use of TTM is also raised in a recent review on travel interventions. With regard to travel interventions only stages of change and sometimes decisional balance constructs are included. The processes used to build the intervention are rarely stage-matched and short cuts are taken by classifying participants in a pre-action stage, which summarises the precontemplation, contemplation and preparation stage, and an action/maintenance stage. More generally, TTM has been criticised within various domains due to the limitations in the research designs. For example, many studies supporting the model have been cross-sectional, but longitudinal study data would allow for stronger causal inferences. Another point of criticism is raised in a 2002 review, where the model's stages were characterized as \"not mutually exclusive\". Furthermore, there was \"scant evidence of sequential movement through discrete stages\". While research suggests that movement through the stages of change is not always linear, a study conducted in 1996 demonstrated that the probability of forward stage movement is greater than the probability of backward stage movement. Due to the variations in use, implementation and type of research designs, data confirming TTM are ambiguous. More care has to be taken in using a sufficient amount of constructs, trustworthy measures, and longitudinal data.\n\n\nThe following notes summarize major differences between the well-known 1983, 1992, and 1997 versions of the model. Other published versions may contain other differences. For example, Prochaska, Prochaska, and Levesque (2001) do not mention the Termination stage, Self-efficacy, or Temptation.\n\n"}
{"id": "1906111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906111", "title": "Al Ham", "text": "Al Ham\n\nAlbert W. Ham (February 6, 1925 in Malden, Massachusetts — October 4, 2001 in Spring Hill, Florida) was an American composer and jingle writer. He was notable as the composer of the \"Move Closer to Your World\" music package used since the 1970s on WPVI-TV's Action News broadcasts in Philadelphia, and, most notably, WKBW-TV's Eyewitness News, as well as on many other newscasts in the United States throughout the 1970s and 1980s. He was also notable as creator of the adult standards radio format \"Music of Your Life\".\n\nHam began as bass player for Artie Shaw when he was 17. While attending Amherst College after WWII, Ham arranged and played double bass for the Tony Pastor Orchestra when the featured singers were Rosemary Clooney and her sister Betty. When Tex Beneke re-formed the Glenn Miller Orchestra, Ham joined as arranger and bass player, working with Henry Mancini, then on staff as arranger. While working for Beneke he met and married Mary Mayo, who was singing with the Glenn Miller Orchestra.\n\nAfter the birth of their daughter Lorri, Ham and his wife moved to New York in 1956 where he worked at Columbia Records. He was named director of special artists and repertoire (A&R) projects under Mitch Miller and produced records for such artists as The Ray Conniff Singers, The Ray Conniff Orchestra, Rosemary Clooney, Vic Damone, Percy Faith, Jerry Vale, Johnny Mathis, Johnnie Ray, Leslie Uggams, Kitty Callen, Guy Mitchell, The Kirby Stone Four, Tony Bennett, The Count Basie Orchestra, Frankie Laine, Jimmy Dean, The Four Lads, and Oscar Brown, Jr.. He was also recording director for original cast albums, and produced LPs of such Broadway hits as \"West Side Story\", \"Most Happy Fella\", \"Gypsy\", \"House of Flowers\", and \"Bells are Ringing\".\n\nDuring his time as a producer at Columbia, Ham brought more to the studio than his knowledge of music and his natural intuition for recognizing hit material. He brought an electronic knowledge that resulted in many technical studio improvements and a \"spatial\" sound that he put to use when he helped to create the first stereo LPs issued by Columbia. He worked with Dr. Peter Goldmark, creator of the Long - Playing record, on special circuit projects that broke new ground for stereo, multi-track recordings and broadcast signal processing.\n\nIn the commercial field Al worked consistently as a composer and arranger. His commercials have won many awards for best musical theme and scoring, including CLIO Awards and four gold medal winners at the International Film and Television Festivals. As arranger, composer, or both, Al’s many commercials include State Farm Insurance (\"Like a good neighbor, State Farm is there.\"), Breck Shampoo, McDonald's (i.e. \"You Deserve a Break Today\"), Gillette, Kinney Shoes, Woolco, Kodak, and Scope.\n\nAl also composed, arranged, and conducted news and station image music packages that have been broadcast by scores of TV stations across the country. They include \"Move Closer to Your World\", \"Part of Your Life\", \"Home Country\", \"Bringing it Home to You\", and \"On Top of It All\".\n\nAl’s film credits include the score of the Electronovision version of \"Harlow\", which produced the song \"I Believed it All\", (Written with Lyricists Marilyn and Alan Bergman). An Academy Award nomination for his superb adaptation and scoring of Warner Brothers’ \"Stop the World – I Want to Get Off\", which he also conducted. And, a Grammy award for the \"Best Spoken Word Recording\" for his production of James Whitmore’s \"Give 'em Hell, Harry!\" on United Artists Records. Al also acted as programmer and associate producer for T.A.M.I. (Teenage Musical International) which featured performances by The Rolling Stones, The Beach Boys, James Brown, The Supremes, Marvin Gaye, Lesley Gore, Chuck Berry, and many other popular music stars. The show was a front runner of the type of concert programming that is now standard TV fare.\n\nHam’s additional musical credits include his arrangement and production of \"I’d Like to Teach the World to Sing\" by his group, the Hillside Singers (which included his wife Mary and daughter Lorri) for Metromedia Records, and the recordings he produced with his group The Midas Touch on MCA records. He also received a Grammy nomination for \"Best Spoken Word Recording\" for \"Senator Sam at Home\".\n\nIn 1978, after years of research, Ham created the Music of Your Life radio format, which played on over 200 radio stations in the United States.\n\nHis television news music packages were syndicated through his company, Mayoham Music.\n\n"}
{"id": "1906117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906117", "title": "Dhat-Badan", "text": "Dhat-Badan\n\nDhat-Badan, \"Dhat-hami\", or \" Zat-Badar\", ´She of the Wild Goats` and ´She of the Sanctuary', was an Arab Himyarite goddess.\n\nDhat-Badan was a nature goddess of the oasis, nature and the wet season and was worshipped at tree-circled pools throughout the region of ancient Yemen, Somalia, and Ethiopia.\n\nShe was said to forbid any invocation to her when there was no seeress or priestess present in her sanctuary. In the sanctuary, a female priestess called a khalimah (literally 'Dreamer') would lie down and sleep before the sacred tree(s) of the goddess to receive an oracle in the form of a prophetic dream.\n\nShe was a popular goddess of the polytheists of Axum. The she-ibex was sacred to her and it was said that an island in the Red Sea inhabited by ibexes was under her protection.\n"}
{"id": "1906120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906120", "title": "John Sex", "text": "John Sex\n\nJohn McLaughlin (April 8, 1956 – October 24, 1990), better known by the stage name John Sex, was an American cabaret singer and performance artist in New York City from the late 1970s until his death in late 1990.\n\nSex was born on Long Island as John McLaughlin. He attended the School of Visual Arts in New York City, where he knew Keith Haring and Jean-Michel Basquiat. He often used the print studio there to create punk-style posters for downtown bands, and later for himself. He exhibited some of his word-based art at the \"Beyond Words\" show at the Mudd Club – alongside artists such as Haring, Kenny Scharf, and Futura 2000 and performers Iggy Pop, Fab Five Freddy and Alan Vega – and at the \"New York / New Wave\" exhibition at P.S. 1, both in 1981. He soon met Klaus Nomi and Joey Arias in the downtown New York scene and gave up painting, finding he could better express himself in performance.\n\nEarly in his career, McLaughlin adopted the stage name \"John Sex\". He claimed the surname \"Sex\" was an Americanization of his family's original name, Sexton, but in fact it was created for him by Arias and Nomi \"during a period of rampant promiscuity\".\n\nAfter early work as a gay stripper, Sex became an alternative performance artist, creating a character based on an exaggerated, cheesy Las Vegas lounge singer and MC. First, along with other SVA graduates and students and Club 57 \"Sex developed a persona that simultaneously masked and amplified his polymorphous self, elaborating a mythic yet parodic rock-star figure of mercurial presence\". His \"Acts of Live Art\" series there brought performance art into the club context. He was able to further refine the combination of performance art, drag act, gay go-go dancer, cabaret singer, lounge MC, etc. as a performance art dancer who performed at such legendary New York clubs as Club 57, the Pyramid Club, Danceteria, The Palladium, Paradise Garage and Andy Warhol's Underground. His backup singers, \"The Bodacious TaTa's\" were often mistaken for drag queens but always consisted of female singers and dancers including Micki French, Wendy Wild, April Palmieri, and Myra Schiller. His costumes were designed by Katy K, who occasionally sat in with the TaTa's.\n\nIn 1984, John made a cameo appearance in The Cars' music video \"Hello Again\", directed by Warhol.\n\nFor the 1986 gay pride march in New York City, he organized and helped build a float called the \"Go-Go Stars\" float which had go-go dancers from various night clubs go-go dancing on it. He performed \"Hustle with My Muscle\" in the 1988 film \"Mondo New York\". His last public performance was at the Club Mars in New York in 1989. He recorded a four-song E.P. for Sire Records, produced by Mark Kamins and Ivan Ivan, as well as 12\" singles and music videos for his songs \"Rock Your Body\" and \"Hustle with My Muscle\" and \"Bump and Grind It\", the latter of which were produced by video artist Tom Rubnitz. \"Hustle with My Muscle\" and \"Bump and Grind It\" were released as an A and B side single and this was one of only two releases on Varla Records, a label specialising in alternative New York artists.\n\nSex's trademark was his long, blond hair which stood straight up, and which he claimed was kept erect by a combination of Dippity-do, Aqua Net, egg whites, beer, and semen. He also dressed in flamboyant costumes. He owned a python named Delilah that was often included in his cabaret act. Sometimes he would leave the python on stage and come down into the audience and wrestle with patrons of the club.\n\nOn October 24, 1990, Sex died from AIDS-related complications at the age of 34. Sex's longtime partner, Wilfredo Vela, succumbed to similar complications four years later.\n\n\nNotes\n\nFurther reading\n\n"}
{"id": "1906125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906125", "title": "Buraku Liberation League", "text": "Buraku Liberation League\n\nThe origin of the Buraku Liberation League is the , founded in 1922. However, in 1942, some of the leading activists, including Asada Zennosuke (朝田善之助), were recruited into the military. The National Levelers Association disbanded in the same year.\n\nIn 1946, the ex-members of the National Levelers Association formed the . In 1955, it was renamed the Buraku Liberation League (BLL).\n\nIn 1966, one of the leaders, , died. Around the same time, the BLL purged the members who were against the leaders' decision that the subsidy to the burakumin should be limited to the BLL members only (as there are many burakumin who did not join the BLL). Asada played a major role in this purge. Thus, the ex-members of the BLL formed the in 1970. This was the predecessor of the .\n\nIn response to the denuclearization struggle \"The reason for fear is not by birth, but because a powerful pressure group because of hanging up and condemnation. It has been said that self-purpose groups fear losing their meaning of existence by achieving their original purpose since late 1960s. \"\n\nAkira Koike, a politician and vice chair of the Japanese Communist Party, also said that \"the Dowa problem has already been resolved basically by residents' endeavor, continuing unfair dowa measures itself will create new prejudice\" and criticized the clamor. He clarified that such criticism is regarded as \"discrimination\" is a complete wrong after Suppression of free speech by Minister of Reconstruction Ryu Matsumoto concurrently serving as a vice chairperson of Buraku Liberation League.\n\nHe criticized Matsumoto's intimidating warning, \"Your company is over if you write my words as the essence of the liberation alliance's suppression of free speech.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1906128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906128", "title": "Urgh! A Music War", "text": "Urgh! A Music War\n\nUrgh! A Music War is a 1982 British film featuring performances by punk rock, new wave, and post-punk acts, filmed in 1980. Among the artists featured in the film are Orchestral Manoeuvres in the Dark (OMD), Magazine, The Go-Go's, Toyah Willcox, The Fleshtones, Joan Jett & the Blackhearts, X, XTC, Devo, The Cramps, Oingo Boingo, Dead Kennedys, Gary Numan, Klaus Nomi, Wall of Voodoo, Pere Ubu, Steel Pulse, Surf Punks, 999, The Alley Cats, UB40, Echo & the Bunnymen and The Police. These were many of the most popular groups on the New Wave scene; in keeping with the spirit of the scene, the film also features several less famous acts, and one completely obscure group, Invisible Sex, in what appears to be their only public performance.\n\n\"Urgh! A Music War\" consists of a series of performances, without narration or explanatory text. All performances are live, recorded around 1980, mainly in England and the USA. Clips were also taken from a concert in Fréjus, Var, France with The Police, XTC, Skafish and UB40 among others.\n\nIn 1981, a year before release of the film, A&M Records released a double-album soundtrack. The selection of songs was almost the same as the film, but there were a few minor changes and several acts featured in the film did not make it to the album (Dead Kennedys, John Cooper Clarke, Chelsea, Surf Punks, Invisible Sex, Splodgenessabounds, UB40).\n\n\"Urgh! A Music War\" was briefly released to theatres by Filmways Pictures, but acquired a cult following in the United States in the 1980s due to its frequent showings on the USA Network. It aired on VH1 Classic on 30 October 2006 as part of its Rock and Roll Picture series. The film has been released on videocassette, LaserDisc, and DVD.\n\nThe film rights are owned by both its original producer, Miles Copeland III (founder of IRS Records), and Warner Bros. Pictures (successor-in-interest to production company Lorimar). However, the rights to distribute the film on electronic media have been, until recently, mired in red tape. A popular theory was that the rights were \"lost\" as a result of the collapse of the failed CED or SelectaVision videodisc format – to promote the adoption of the format, RCA reportedly purchased exclusive rights to \"Urgh!\" such that it could not appear on any other media without re-negotiation. When Thomson Electronics acquired RCA, SelectaVision was a dead issue for them. Exhibition rights were retained by Copeland, and \"Urgh!\" has been shown on TV numerous times, including recent airings on VH1 and various cable-only channels.\n\nPortions of \"Urgh!\" appear elsewhere in film and video: The Klaus Nomi clip \"Total Eclipse\" appears in the 2004 documentary \"The Nomi Song\", and details of its filming are discussed. The 1982 documentary \"The Police: Around The World\" was also filmed by Derek Burbidge and features footage used in \"Urgh!\" as well as other footage filmed at the same concert. Joan Jett's \"Bad Reputation\" footage was used in the 2003 Blackheart Records DVD release of \"Real Wild Child\" Video Anthology. \"Bad Reputation\" (Audio only) was also issued on Blackheart Records 2006's Reissue of \"Flashback\".\n\nIn addition to recent cable showings, some remaining intact prints of the movie have toured the US in recent years (one tour sponsored by the humor periodical The Onion), and video showings in clubs and film houses have sparked a resurgence of interest in the film, which resulted in a DVD release by Warner Bros. as part of its \"Warner Archive\" series of DVD issues of their lesser-known titles from the WB vaults. It is now available via the WB website.\n\nIn August 2009, Warner Archive released an official DVD-R of the movie, which is burned on a made-to-order basis. As noted on the Warner Archive Website, the movie has not been remastered or restored, but is presented in a 1.85:1 aspect ratio widescreen format. There is a trailer included, which is the only feature other than the film itself. There are no chapter indexes for the individual tracks, but rather 10-minute chapters. Splodgenessabounds' performance of \"Two Little Boys\" is omitted from the DVD, with the other original performances remaining. The DVD is for US distribution only.\n\n\nThe original 1981 soundtrack was released as both a double LP (A&M SP-6019 in the U.S., SP 96019 in Canada, and AMLM 66019 in Europe) and double cassette (CS-6019 in the U.S.). Each contained the following track listing:\n\nSide 1\n\nSide 2\n\nSide 3\n\nSide 4\n\nAccording to the official site of Toyah Willcox, the artist was credited incorrectly with ‘Toyah Wilcox’ as artist (instead of ‘Toyah’, the name of the band she was fronting at that time) and the song incorrectly titled ‘Dance’ instead of ‘Danced’.\n\nAt some later date, presumably in the 1980s, the soundtrack was released on CD (A&M CD 6019 in the U.S.). The accompanying booklet states, \"This is an abridged version of the original album and cassette releases.\" The disc omits six performances: those by Toyah Willcox, The Members, Athletico Spizz '80, Alley Cats, The Au Pairs, and John Otway.\n\nThe track listing for the CD is:\n\n"}
{"id": "1906129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906129", "title": "The Bride of Lammermoor", "text": "The Bride of Lammermoor\n\nThe Bride of Lammermoor is a historical novel by Sir Walter Scott, published in 1819. The novel is set in the Lammermuir Hills of south-east Scotland, and tells of a tragic love affair between young Lucy Ashton and her family's enemy Edgar Ravenswood. Scott indicated the plot was based on an actual incident. \"The Bride of Lammermoor\" and \"A Legend of Montrose\" were published together anonymously as the third of Scott's \"Tales of My Landlord\" series. The story is the basis for Donizetti's 1835 opera \"Lucia di Lammermoor\".\n\nIt is not known exactly when Scott contracted to write \"Tales of my Landlord (Third Series)\", but he began composition at the beginning of September 1818, some two months after completing \"The Heart of Midlothian\" and finished it in late April or early May the following year. During March he had to suspend work after a near-fatal attack of gallstones, but about a week into April he set about dictating the final chapters (from a little into Chapter 26 to the end), apparently to John Ballantyne and William Laidlaw.\n\nScott was acquainted with the central story of the novel from oral and printed sources, drawing on the various versions and modifying them for his fictional purposes (see 'The Ashton story' below). The presence of the Gowrie Conspiracy, familiar to him from his editorial labours in the 17th century, can be felt at a number of points in the work. For the hunting descriptions he was able to call on a work in his library, the second edition of George Turbervile's anonymous \"The Noble Art of Venerie or Hunting\" (1611).\n\nThe first edition of \"Tales of my Landlord (Third Series)\", consisting of \"The Bride of Lammermoor\" and \"A Legend of Montrose\" was published by Archibald Constable in Edinburgh on 21 June 1819 and in London on the 26th. As with all the Waverley novels before 1827 publication was anonymous. Scott appears to have made some small changes to the text of the \"Bride\" when it appeared later in 1819 in the octavo \"Novels and Tales\", but his main revision was carried out in late 1829 and early 1830 for the 'Magnum' edition, including the provision of notes and an introduction: it appeared as part of Volume 13 and the whole of Volume 14 in June and July 1830. For the 'Magnum' Scott moved the action from just before the Act of Union of 1707 to the period immediately following it. The standard modern edition, by J. H. Alexander, was published as Volume 7a of the Edinburgh Edition of the Waverley Novels in 1993: this is based on the first edition with emendations principally from Scott's manuscript; the new Magnum material is included in Volume 25a.\n\nThe story recounts the tragic love of Lucy Ashton and Edgar, Master of Ravenswood. Edgar's father was stripped of his title for supporting the deposed King James VII. Lucy's ambitious father, Sir William Ashton, then bought the Ravenswood estate. Edgar hates Sir William for this usurpation of his family's heritage, but on meeting Lucy, falls in love with her, and renounces his plans for vengeance.\n\nSir William's haughty and manipulative wife, Lady Ashton, is the villainess of the story. She is determined to end the initial happy engagement of Edgar and Lucy, and force Lucy into a politically advantageous arranged marriage. Lady Ashton intercepts Edgar's letters to Lucy and persuades Lucy that Edgar has forgotten her. Edgar leaves Scotland for France, to continue his political activities. While he is away, Lady Ashton continues her campaign. She gets Captain Westenho, a wandering soldier of fortune, to tell everyone that Edgar is about to get married in France. She even recruits \"wise woman\" Ailsie Gourlay (a witch in all but name) to show Lucy omens and tokens of Edgar's unfaithfulness. Lucy still clings to her troth, asking for word from Edgar that he has broken off with her; she writes to him. Lady Ashton suppresses Lucy's letter, and brings the Reverend Bide-the-bent to apply religious persuasion to Lucy. However, Bide-the-bent instead helps Lucy send a new letter, but there is no answer.\n\nLady Ashton finally bullies Lucy into marrying Francis, Laird of Bucklaw. But on the day before the wedding, Edgar returns. Seeing that Lucy has signed the betrothal papers with Bucklaw, he repudiates Lucy, who can barely speak. The wedding takes place the next day, followed by a celebration at Ravenswood. While the guests are dancing, Lucy stabs Bucklaw in the bridal chamber, severely wounding him. She descends quickly into insanity and dies. Bucklaw recovers, but refuses to say what had happened. Edgar reappears at Lucy's funeral. Lucy's older brother, blaming him for her death, insists that they meet in a duel. Edgar, in despair, reluctantly agrees. But on the way to the meeting, Edgar falls into quicksand and dies.\n\n\"principal characters in bold\"\nVolume One\n\nCh. 1: Peter Pattieson tells how he compiled the following tale from fragmentary notes taken by his late friend, the artist Dick Tinto, from one of the stories told by a Lammermoor farmer's wife.\n\nCh. 2: The narrator introduces the Ravenswood and Ashton families. Edgar Ravenswood buries his father in an episcopalian ceremony, defying the authority of the local kirk session and Ashton as Lord Keeper.\n\nCh. 3: The recollection of a medieval act of revenge by a Ravenswood leads Ashton to suspend his intended legal proceedings against Edgar. He takes his daughter Lucy for a walk in the park, encountering his forester Norman who despises him for lacking a taste for sport.\n\nCh. 4: Ashton and his daughter visit old Alice, who warns him of the vengeful nature of the Ravenswoods.\n\nCh. 5: Edgar rescues Lucy from a wild bull and tends her at a fountain popularly believed to be unlucky for the Ravenswoods. He reveals his identity and leaves. Lucy's imagination nourishes thoughts of Edgar, and her father tones down his report on the funeral, to the surprise of his colleagues in Edinburgh.\n\nCh. 6: Bucklaw and Craigengelt discuss their support for Edgar in his dispute with Ashton, but on his arrival Edgar says he has decided to drop the matter, arousing the indignation of the pair.\n\nCh. 7: Challenged to a duel by Bucklaw, Edgar defeats him before offering him shelter at his dilapidated castle of Wolfscrag, to the displeasure of his servant Caleb.\n\nCh. 8: Edgar and Bucklaw pass several days of inactivity at Wolfscrag. A letter arrives from the Marquis of A—— advising him against travelling abroad but offering him no hospitality.\n\nCh. 9: Surprised by a storm while out hunting the Ashtons take refuge at Wolfscrag.\n\nCh. 10: Conscious of the lack of provisions, Caleb excludes the Ashton grooms and Bucklaw, who indignantly joins Craigengelt at the Wolfshope inn. As Edgar greets Lucy at the castle there is a fearful burst of lightning and thunder.\n\nCh. 11: Caleb says the thunder has spoiled a lavish (fictitious) feast.\n\nCh. 12: Caleb steals a duck from the turnspit at the house of John Girder the cooper, part of the refreshments for a christening party.\n\nCh. 13: Girder is at first indignant at Caleb's raid, but he sends additional provisions to Wolfscrag when he sees the chance of winning promotion through the good offices of the Lord Keeper.\n\nCh. 14: Caleb and Ashton's servant Lockhard discuss the Ravenswoods and the Ashtons. Ashton suggests to Edgar that they should reconcile their differences.\n\nVolume Two\n\nCh. 1 (15): The narrator explains the self-seeking political reasoning behind Ashton's wish for a reconciliation with Edgar.\n\nCh. 2 (16): Edgar declines to discuss his legal dispute with Ashton, who is planning to make use of the relationship between Edgar and his daughter for his own purposes. Craigengelt conveys a challenge from Bucklaw to Edgar and is sent packing.\n\nCh. 3 (17): Ashton convinces Edgar that he has treated him well in sparing him the consequences of his father's funeral, and Edgar professes his friendship.\n\nCh. 4 (18): Caleb tries to deter Edgar from visiting Ravenswood Castle, now occupied by the Ashtons, citing an old prophecy, but Edgar ignores him and on his arrival frightens young Henry Ashton with his resemblance to a portrait of his vengeful ancestor Sir Malise Ravenswood.\n\nCh. 5 (19): Edgar and Lucy visit Alice who warns against their alliance.\n\nCh. 6 (20): Edgar and Lucy become engaged at the fountain, dividing a gold coin between them. On their return to Ravenswood Castle they learn that the Marquis is planning a visit.\n\nCh. 7 (21): Edgar and Lucy find they disagree on several matters but their relationship continues to grow. Craigengelt gives Bucklaw his support in his intention to marry Lucy, the match being favoured by Lady Ashton and his kinswoman Lady Blenkinsop.\n\nCh. 8 (22): Craigengelt informs Lady Ashton, who is staying with Lady Blenkinsop, of Edgar's residence at Ravenswood Castle. She arrives at the Castle simultaneously with the Marquis. In spite of her husband's objection Lady Ashton writes a note requiring Edgar to leave the castle, incurring the Marquis's displeasure.\n\nCh. 9 (23): Edgar sees an apparition of Alice at the fountain. He arrives at her cottage to find that her dead, and three old women arrive to lay her out.\n\nCh. 10 (24): Edgar arranges Alice's funeral with the sexton John Mortsheugh.\n\nCh. 11 (25): The Marquis expresses doubts about the wisdom of Edgar's relationship with Lucy and offers him a political commission involving a period on the Continent. Caleb announces that Wolfscrag, to which Edgar and the Marquis are bound, is on fire. He is made welcome at the house of John Girder, now promoted.\n\nCh. 12 (26): Caleb explains to Edgar that the fire was in reality not in Wolfscrag, but a device to avoid the necessity to entertain the Marquis and his entourage.\n\nCh. 13 (27): In Edinburgh Edgar writes to Lady Ashton, Ashton, and Lucy and receives replies, uncompromising, non-committal, and distressed respectively.\n\nVolume Three\nCh. 1 (28): Twelve months have passed, and Bucklaw and Craigengelt discuss Bucklaw's impending marriage to Lucy.\n\nCh. 2 (29): Bucklaw and Lady Ashton agree with Lucy that the marriage documents will be signed if no word has been received from Edgar by St Jude's day. \n\nCh. 3 (30): (This and the following chapter fill in developments retrospectively.) Lady Ashton exercised strict control on Lucy's movements and correspondence.\n\nCh. 4 (31): The 'wise woman' Aislie Gourlay was brought in to act as Lucy's nurse and told her dark stories about the Ravenswoods. A strict minister was also summoned, but he agreed to forward a letter from Lucy to Edgar, reproducing one dictated by her mother but which Lady Ashton had decided not to send: this was phrased so as to appear to be a request for Edgar to renounce their engagement.\n\nCh. 5 (32): On St Jude's day Edgar arrives just as the marriage contract has been signed.\n\nCh. 6 (33): Edgar renounces the engagement in conformity with what he takes to be Lucy's wish, though she is almost entirely silent.\n\nCh. 7 (34): Lucy stabs Bucklaw on their wedding night and dies the following day.\n\nCh. 8 (35): At Lucy's funeral Colonel Ashton arranges a duel with Edgar at sunrise the following morning. On his way to the arranged meeting-place Edgar and his horse disappear in a quicksand.\n\nAmong reviewers only the writer in \"The Scotsman\" found \"The Bride of Lammermoor\" uniformly excellent. There was a general tendency to lament the familiar stylistic carelessness and weak plotting, and some reviewers saw a distinct decline from the preceding novels, with signs of exhaustion and less interesting subject matter. Repetition of characters was mentioned more than once, though sometimes with a recognition that there were discriminations to be discerned, and in general the characterisation and the dialogue of the lower orders was appreciated. The tragic power of the final scenes was widely appreciated, but the admixture of ludicrous humour was a defect for some, as was the overall gloomy and painful atmosphere. Caleb was widely praised, but there were complaints that he was unvarying and that he perhaps outstayed his welcome. Views differed on the superstitious element, variously judged effectively employed, or foolish and unfortunately pervasive. The introductory chapter centring on Dick Tinto pleased reviewers more than the Cleishbotham openings of earlier novels.\n\nThe story is fictional, but according to Scott's introduction to the novel for the 'Magnum' edition it was based on an actual incident in the history of the Dalrymple and Rutherford families. Scott heard this story from his mother, Anne Rutherford, and his great aunt Margaret Swinton. The model for Lucy Ashton was Janet Dalrymple, eldest daughter of James Dalrymple, 1st Viscount of Stair, and his wife Margaret Ross of Balneil. As a young woman, Janet secretly pledged her troth to Archibald, third Lord Rutherfurd, relative and heir of the Earl of Teviot, who was thus the model for Edgar of Ravenswood. When another suitor appeared - David Dunbar, heir of Sir David Dunbar of Baldoon Castle near Wigtown - Janet's mother, Margaret, discovered the betrothal but insisted on the match with Dunbar. Rutherfurd's politics were unacceptable to the Dalrymples: Lord Stair was a staunch Whig, whereas Rutherfurd was an ardent supporter of Charles II. Nor was his lack of fortune in his favour. Attempting to intercede he wrote to Janet, but received a reply from her mother, stating that Janet had seen her mistake. A meeting was then arranged, during which Margaret quoted the Book of Numbers (chapter XXX, verses 2–5), which states that a father may overrule a vow made by his daughter in her youth.\n\nThe marriage went ahead on 24 August 1669, in the church of Old Luce, Wigtownshire, two miles south of Carsecleugh Castle, one of her father's estates. Her younger brother later recollected that Janet's hand was \"cold and damp as marble\", and she remained impassive the whole day. While the guests danced the couple retired to the bedchamber. When screaming was heard from the room, the door was forced open and the guests found Dunbar stabbed and bleeding. Janet, whose shift was bloody, cowered in the corner, saying only \"take up thy bonny bridgroom.\" Janet died, apparently insane, on 12 September, without divulging what had occurred. She was buried on 30 September. Dunbar recovered from his wounds, but similarly refused to explain the event. He remarried in 1674, to Lady Eleanor Montgomerie, daughter of the Earl of Eglinton, but died on 28 March 1682 after falling from a horse between Leith and Edinburgh. Rutherfurd died in 1685, without children.\n\nIt was generally believed that Janet had stabbed her new husband, though other versions of the story suggest that Rutherfurd hid in the bedchamber in order to attack his rival Dunbar, before escaping through the window. The involvement of the devil or other malign spirits has also been suggested. Scott quotes the Rev. Andrew Symson (1638–1712), former minister of Kirkinner, who wrote a contemporary elegy \"On the unexpected death of the virtuous Lady Mrs. Janet Dalrymple, Lady Baldoon, younger\", which also records the dates of the events. More scurrilous verses relating to the story are also quoted by Scott, including those by Lord Stair's political enemy Sir William Hamilton of Whitelaw.\n\nIt is said that Janet was buried at Newliston near Edinburgh, but Janet's brother John, later Earl of Stair, married Elizabeth Dundas of Newliston in 1669, and he may not have been at Newliston when Janet died. Janet may have been buried by her husband at Glenluce.\n\nScott's biographers have compared elements of \"The Bride of Lammermuir\" with Scott's own romantic involvement with Williamina Belsches in the 1790s. The bitterness apparent in the relationship between Lucy Ashton and Edgar of Ravenswood after their betrothal is broken has been compared to Scott's disappointment when, after courting her for some time, Belsches married instead the much wealthier William Forbes.\n\nThe spelling \"Lammermoor\" is an Anglicisation of the Scots \"Lammermuir\". The Lammermuir Hills are a range of moors which divide East Lothian to the north from Berwickshire in the Scottish Borders to the south. The fictional castle \"Wolf's Crag\" has been identified with Fast Castle on the Berwickshire coast. Scott stated that he was \"not competent to judge of the resemblance... having never seen Fast Castle except from the sea.\" He did approve of the comparison, writing that the situation of Fast Castle \"seems certainly to resemble that of Wolf's Crag as much as any other\".\n\nLike most Anglo-Saxon names, the name \"Edgar\" had fallen out of use by the later medieval period. The success of \"The Bride of Lammermoor\" had a considerable role in this name being revived and becoming widely used, up to the present.\n\n"}
{"id": "1906130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906130", "title": "New Public Management", "text": "New Public Management\n\nNew Public Management (NPM) is an approach to running public service organizations that is used in government and public service institutions and agencies, at both sub-national and national levels. The term was first introduced by academics in the UK and Australia to describe approaches that were developed during the 1980s as part of an effort to make the public service more \"businesslike\" and to improve its efficiency by using private sector management models. \n\nAs with the private sector, which focuses on \"customer service\", NPM reforms often focused on the \"centrality of citizens who were the recipient of the services or customers to the public sector\". NPM reformers experimented with using decentralized service delivery models, to give local agencies more freedom in how they delivered programs or services. In some cases, NPM reforms that used e-government consolidated a program or service to a central location to reduce costs. Some governments tried using quasi-market structures, so that the public sector would have to compete against the private sector (notably in the UK, in health care). Key themes in NPM were \"financial control, value for money, increasing efficiency ..., identifying and setting targets and continuance monitoring of performance, handing over ... power to the senior management\" executives. Performance was assessed with audits, benchmarks and performance evaluations. Some NPM reforms used private sector companies to deliver what were formerly public services. \n\nNPM advocates in some countries worked to remove \"collective agreements [in favour of] ... individual rewards packages at senior levels combined with short term contracts\" and introduce private sector-style corporate governance, including using a Board of Directors approach to strategic guidance for public organizations. While NPM approaches have been used in many countries around the world, NPM is particularly associated with the most industrialized OECD nations such as the United Kingdom, Australia and the United States of America. NPM advocates focus on using approaches from the private sector – the corporate or business world–which can be successfully applied in the public sector and in a public administration context. NPM approaches have been used to reform the public sector, its policies and its programs. NPM advocates claim that it is a more efficient and effective means of attaining the same outcome. \n\nIn NPM, citizens are viewed as \"customers\" and public servants are viewed as public managers. NPM tries to realign the relationship between public service managers and their political superiors by making a parallel relationship between the two. Under NPM, public managers have incentive-based motivation such as pay-for-performance, and clear performance targets are often set, which are assessed by using performance evaluations. As well, managers in an NPM paradigm may have greater discretion and freedom as to how they go about achieving the goals set for them. This NPM approach is contrasted with the traditional public administration model, in which institutional decision-making, policy-making and public service delivery is guided by regulations, legislation and administrative procedures. \n\nNPM reforms use approaches such as disaggregation, customer satisfaction initiatives, customer service efforts, applying an entrepreneurial spirit to public service, and introducing innovations. The NPM system allows \"the expert manager to have a greater discretion\". \"Public Managers under the New Public Management reforms can provide a range of choices from which customers can choose, including the right to opt out of the service delivery system completely\".\n\nThe first practices of New Public Management emerged in the United Kingdom under the leadership of Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher. Thatcher played the functional role of “policy entrepreneur\" and the official role of prime minister. Thatcher drove changes in public management policy in such areas as organizational methods, civil service, labor relations, expenditure planning, financial management, audit, evaluation, and procurement. \n\nThatcher's successor, John Major, kept public management policy on the agenda of the Conservative government, leading to the implementation of the Next Steps Initiative. Major also launched the programs of the Citizens Charter Initiative, Competing for Quality, Resource Accounting and Budgeting, and the Private Finance Initiative.\n\nA term was coined in the late 1980s to denote a new (or renewed) focus on the importance of management and ‘production engineering’ in public service delivery, which often linked to doctrines of economic rationalism (Hood 1989, Pollitt 1993). During this timeframe public management became an active area of policy-making in numerous other countries, notably in New Zealand, Australia, and Sweden. At the same time, Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) established its Public Management Committee and Secretariat (PUMA), conferring to public management the status normally accorded more conventional domains of policy. In the 1990s, public management was a major item on President Clinton’s agenda. Early policy actions of the Clinton administration included launching the National Partnership and signing into law the Government Performance and Results Act. Currently there are few indications that public management issues will vanish from governmental policy agendas. A recent study showed that in Italy, municipal directors are aware of a public administration now being oriented toward new public management where they are assessed according to the results they produce.\n\nThe term New Public Management (NPM) expresses the idea that the cumulative flow of policy decisions over the past twenty years has amounted to a substantial shift in the governance and management of the “state sector” in the United Kingdom, New Zealand, Australia, Scandinavia, North America, and Latin America. For instance, regional innovation agency were created under NPM principles to support the innovation process. A benign interpretation is that these decisions have been a defensible, if imperfect, response to policy problems. Those problems as well as their solutions were formulated within the policy-making process. The agenda-setting process has been heavily influenced by electoral commitments to improve macro- economic performance and to contain growth in the public sector, as well as by a growing perception of public bureaucracies as being inefficient. The alternative-generation process has been heavily influenced by ideas coming from economics and from various quarters within the field of management.\n\nAlthough the origins of NPM came from Westernized countries it expanded to a variety of other countries in the 1990s. Before the 1990s, NPM was largely associated to an idea utilized by developed countries that are particularly Anglo-Saxon. However the 1990s have seen countries in Africa, Asia and other countries looking into using this method. In Africa, downsizing and decrease of user fees have been widely introduced. These autonomous agencies within the public sectors have been established in these areas. Performance contracting became a common policy in crisis states worldwide. Contracting out of this magnitude can be used to do things such as waste management, cleaning, laundry, catering and road maintenance.\n\nNPM was accepted as the \"gold standard for administrative reform\" in the 1990s. The idea for using this method for government reform was that if the government guided private-sector principles were used rather than rigid hierarchical bureaucracy, it would work more efficiently. NPM promotes a shift from bureaucratic administration to business-like professional management. NPM was cited as the solution for management ills in various organizational context and policy making in education and health care reform.\n\nThe basic principles of NPM is can best be described when split into seven different aspects elaborated by Christopher Hood in 1991. Hood also invented the term NPM itself. They are the following:\n\nBecause of its belief in the importance and strength of privatizing government, it is critical to have an emphasis on management by engaging in hands-on methods. This theory allows leaders the freedom to manage freely and open up discretion.\n\nIts critical to preserve express measures and measures of execution in a workforce. Utilizing this strategy advances clarification of goals/intent, targets, and markers for movement.\n\nThe third point acknowledges the \"shift from the use of input controls and bureaucratic procedures to rules relying on output controls measured by quantitive performance indicators\". This aspect requires using performance based assessments when looking to outsource work to private companies/groups.\n\nNPM advocates frequently moved from a bound together administration framework to a decentralized framework in which directors pick up adaptability and are not constrained to organization restrictions.\n\nThis characteristic centers on how NPM can advance competition within the public sector which may in turn lower fetched, dispose of debate and conceivably accomplish a better quality of progress/work through the term contacts. Competition can too be found when the government offers contracts to the private segments and the contract is given in terms of the capacity to provide the benefit viably, quality of the merchandise given, subsequently this will increment competition since the other private division which did not get the contract will make strides to make strides the quality and capacity subsequently encouraging competition.\nThis viewpoint centers on the need to set up short-term labor contracts, create corporate plans or trade plans, execution assentions and mission statements. It moreover centers on setting up a working environment in which open representatives or temporary workers are mindful of the objectives and intention that offices are attempting to reach.\n\nThe most effective one which has led to its ascent into global popularity, focuses on keeping cost low and efficiency high. \"Doing more with less\" \nmoreover cost reduction stimulates efficiency and is one way which makes it different from the traditional of management approach\n\nNew Public Management draws practices from the private sector and uses them in the public sector of management. NPM reforms use market forces to hold the public sector accountable and the satisfaction of preferences as the measures of accountability. In order for this system to proceed, certain conditions, such as the existence of competition, must exist and information about choices must be available. Reforms that promise to reinvent government by way of focusing on results and customer satisfaction as opposed to administrative and political processes fail to account for legislative self-interest. Institutions other than federal government, the changes being trumpeted as reinvention would not even be announced, except perhaps on hallway bulletin boards.\n\nThere are blurred lines between policymaking and providing services in the New Public Management system. Questions have been raised about the potential politicization of the public service, when executives are hired on contract under pay-for-performance systems. The ability for citizens to effectively choose the appropriate government services they need has also been challenged. \"The notion of choice is essential to the economic concept of a customer. Generally, in government there are few if any choices.\" There are concerns that public managers move away from trying to meet citizens' needs and limitations on accountability to the public. NPM brings to question integrity and compliance when dealing with incentives for public managers - the interests of customers and owners do not always align. Questions such as managers being more or less faithful arise. The public interest is at risk and could undermine the trust in government. \"Government must be accountable to the larger public interest, not only to individual immediate customers or consumers [of government services.]\"\n\nAlthough NPM had a dramatic impact in the 1990s on managing and policymaking, many scholars believe that NPM has hit its prime. Scholars like Frank Dunleavy believe New Public Management is phasing out because of disconnect with “customers” and their institutions. Scholars cite the Digital Era and the new importance of technology that kills the necessity of NPM. In countries that are less industrialized the NPM concept is still growing and spreading. This trend has much to do with a country's ability or inability to get their public sector in tune with the Digital Era. New Public Management was created in the Public Sector to create change based on: disaggregation, competition, and incentives. Using incentives to produce the maximum services from an organization is largely stalled in many countries and being reversed because of increased complexity.\n\nPost-NPM, many countries explored digital era governance (DEG). Dunleavy believes this new way of governance should be heavily centered upon information and technology. Technology will help re-integrate with digitalization changes. Digital Era Governance provides a unique opportunity for self- sustainability however, there are various factors that will determine whether or not DEG can be implemented successfully. When countries have proper technology, NPM simply can't compete very well with DEG. DEG does an excellent job of making services more accurate, prompt and remove most barriers and conflicts. DEG also can improve the service quality and provide local access to outsourcers.\n\nThe New Public Service is a newly developed theory for 21st century citizen-focused public administration. This work directly challenges the clientelism and rationalist paradigm of the New Public Management. New Public Service (NPS) focuses on democratic governance and re-imagining the accountability of public administrators toward citizens. NPS posits that administrators should be a broker between citizens and their government, focusing on citizen engagement in political and administrative issues.\n\nNew Public Management is often mistakenly compared to New Public Administration. The ‘New Public Administration’ movement was one established in the USA during the late 1960s and early 1970s. Though there may be some common features, the central themes of the two movements are different. The main thrust of the New Public Administration movement was to bring academic public administration into line with an anti-hierarchical egalitarian movement that was influential in US university campuses and public sector workers. By contrast, the emphasis of the New Public Management movement a decade or so later was firmly managerial normative in that it stressed the difference that management could and should make in the quality and efficiency of public services. It focuses on public service production functions and operational issues contrasted with the focus on public accountability, ‘model employer’ public service values, ‘due process,’ and what happens inside public organizations in conventional public administration.\n\nThe table below gives a side-by-side comparison of the two systems core aspects/characteristics \n"}
{"id": "1906133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906133", "title": "Open-loop gain", "text": "Open-loop gain\n\nThe open-loop gain of an amplifier is the gain obtained when no overall feedback is used in the circuit.\nOpen loop gain, in some amplifiers, can be exceedingly high. An \"ideal\" operational amplifier (op-amp) has infinite open-loop gain. Typically an op-amp may have a maximal open-loop gain of around formula_1. The very high open-loop gain of the op-amp allows a wide range of feedback levels to be applied to achieve the desired performance. \n\nNormally, feedback is applied around an amplifier with high open loop gain so that the effective gain circuit is defined and kept to a desired figure. \n\nThe definition of open-loop gain (at a fixed frequency) is\n\nformula_2\n\nwhere formula_3 is the input voltage difference that is being amplified. The dependence on frequency is not displayed here.\n\nThe open-loop gain is a physical attribute of an operational amplifier that is often finite in comparison to the usual gain, denoted formula_4. While open-loop gain is the gain when there is no feedback in a circuit, an operational amplifier will often be configured to use a feedback configuration such that its gain will be controlled by the feedback circuit components.\n\nTake the case of an inverting operational amplifier configuration. If the resistor between the single output node and the inverting input node is formula_5 and the resistor between a source voltage and the inverting input node is formula_6, then the ideal gain for such a circuit at the output terminal is defined, ideally, to be:\n\nformula_7\n\nHowever, with the use of open-loop gain, the equation becomes:\n\nformula_8\n\nNotice that the equation becomes effectively the same for the ideal case as formula_9 approaches infinity.\n\nIn this manner, the open-loop gain is important for computing the actual gain for a given non-ideal operational amplifier network in situations where the ideal model of an operational amplifier begins to become inaccurate.\n\nThe open-loop gain of an operational amplifier falls very rapidly with increasing frequency. Along with slew rate, this is one of the reasons why operational amplifiers have limited bandwidth.\n\n"}
{"id": "1906134", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906134", "title": "Organik", "text": "Organik\n\nOrganik is the third studio album by Robert Miles, released on 11 June 2001. The first he independently recorded and produced after quitting his record company, it marked a complete departure from the style of his first two albums but still received overwhelmingly positive reviews.\n\n\"Organik\" was composed and arranged during the summer of 1999 at Can Maresa in Ibiza, then recorded and mixed across seventeen months from 2000 to 2001 at Muchmoremusic Studios in London. Self-released on Salt Records, it is also available from Narada, Shakti Records (U.S.), and DBX Records.\n\nThe title \"TSBOL\" stands for \"That Small Bubble of Life\". It is derived from the sample used in the track intro: \"\" Time to work. Time to relax. Time to reflect... Look down. Look down. That fragile bubble of life float on a sea of nothing: [Spaceship Earth.] \"\".\n\nThe title \"Pour Te Parler\" is French for \"To Talk to You.\"\n\n\nAll tracks written by Robert Miles (born Roberto Concina), except track 3 written by Robert Miles and Smoke City (Nina Miranda, Marc Brown, Chris Franck).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1906142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906142", "title": "University Grants Commission (India)", "text": "University Grants Commission (India)\n\nThe University Grants Commission of India (UGC India) is a statutory body set up by the Government of India in accordance to the UGC Act 1956 under Ministry of Human Resource Development, and is charged with coordination, determination and maintenance of standards of higher education. It provides recognition to universities in India, and disbursements of funds to such recognized universities and colleges. Its headquarters is in New Delhi, and has six regional centres in Pune, Bhopal, Kolkata, Hyderabad, Guwahati and Bangalore. \n\nUGC is modelled after University Grants Committee of UK which was an advisory committee of the British government and advised on the distribution of grant funding amongst the British universities. The committee was in existence from 1919 until 1989.\n\nThe UGC was first formed in 1945 to oversee the work of the three Central Universities of Aligarh, Banaras and Delhi. Its responsibility was extended in 1947 to cover all Indian universities.\n\nIn August 1949 a recommendation was made to reconstitute the UGC along similar lines to the University Grants Committee of the United Kingdom. This recommendation was made by the University Education Commission of 1948-1949 which was set up under the chairmanship of S. Radhakrishnan \"to report on Indian university education and suggest improvements and extensions\". In 1952 the government decided that all grants to universities and higher learning institutions should be handled by the UGC. Subsequently, an inauguration was held on 28 December 1953 by Maulana Abul Kalam Azad, the Minister of Education, Natural Resources and Scientific Research.\n\nIn November 1956 the UGC became a statutory body upon the passing of the \"University Grants Commission Act, 1956\" by the Indian Parliament.\n\nIn 1994 and 1995 the UGC decentralised its operations by setting up six regional centres at Pune, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Bhopal, Guwahati and Bangalore. The head office of the UGC is located at Bahadur Shah Zafar Marg in New Delhi, with two additional bureaus operating from 35, Feroze Shah Road and the South Campus of University of Delhi as well.\n\nIn December 2015 the Indian government set a National Institutional of Ranking Framework under UGC which will rank all educational institutes by April 2016.\n\nIn December 2017 D.P. Singh, former director of National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC), was appointed chairman for a period of five years, replacing UGC member Virander Singh Chauhan, who officiated the position since the retirement of Ved Prakash in April 2017.\n\nThe types of universities controlled by the UGC include:\n\nThe University Grants Commission (UGC) has also released the list of 24 fake Universities operating in India. UGC has said that these 24 self-styled, unrecognized institutions functioning in contravention of the UGC Act have been declared as fake and are not entitled to confer any degrees.\n\nUGC, along with CSIR currently conducts NET for appointments of teachers in colleges and universities. It has made NET qualification mandatory for teaching at Graduation level and at Post Graduation level since July 2009. However, those with Ph.D are given five percent relaxation.\n\nAccreditation for higher learning over Universities under the aegis of University Grants Commission is overseen by following fifteen autonomous statutory institutions :\n\n\nIn 2009, the Union Minister of Human Resource Development, Kapil Sibal made known the government of India's plans to consider the closing down of the UGC and the related body All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE), in favour of a higher regulatory body with more sweeping powers. This goal, proposed by the Higher Education and Research (HE&R) Bill, 2011, intends to replace the UGC with a \"National Commission for Higher Education & Research (NCHER)\" \"for determination, coordination, maintenance and continued enhancement of standards of higher education and research\". The bill proposes absorbing the UGC and other academic agencies into this new organisation. Those agencies involved in medicine and law would be exempt from this merger \"to set minimum standards for medical and legal education leading to professional practice\". The bill has received opposition from the local governments of the Indian states of Bihar, Kerala, Punjab, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal, but has received general support.\n\nOn 27 June 2018, the Ministry of Human Resource Development announced its plans to repeal the UGC Act, 1956. A bill was expected to be introduced in the 2018 monsoon session of the Parliament, which if passed would have lead to the dissolution of the UGC. The bill also stipulated formation of a new body, the Higher Education Commission of India (HECI). This form of the bill was ultimately dropped in the face of strong political opposition, and was reworked in 2019 in order to gain political consensus. As of mid-2020 the UGC continues to remain in existence.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1906143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906143", "title": "List of communication satellite companies", "text": "List of communication satellite companies\n\nThis is a list of all companies currently operating at least one commercial communication satellite or currently has one on order.\n\nThe World Teleport Association publishes lists of companies based on revenues from all customized communications sources and includes operators of teleports and satellite fleets. Top satellite operators in 2017 were:\n\n"}
{"id": "1906150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906150", "title": "Pigeon drop", "text": "Pigeon drop\n\nPigeon drop is a confidence trick in which a mark or \"pigeon\" is persuaded to give up a sum of money in order to secure the rights to a larger sum of money, or more valuable object.\n\nTo perform a pigeon drop, two con artists pose as strangers to each other and manipulate a mark into seemingly finding a large amount of \"lost\" money. The two con artists convince the mark that they can all legitimately claim equal shares of the found money if they each put up some amount of their own money to prove good faith; the mark, unaware that the two others are confederates, believes that they have independently judged this to be a wise course of action. The con artists take possession of the mark's money and hand over what the mark believes to be his share of the found money, or even the entirety of the find if he believes he has been made its trustee. In actuality, the con artists use sleight of hand to give the mark a worthless decoy, such as an envelope full of newspaper scraps. The con artists can then easily leave in the guise of fulfilling some part of the agreed-upon process, such as depositing the funds or filling out legal paperwork, and will be long gone by the time the mark detects the deception.\n\nIn the opening scene of the 1973 film \"The Sting\", Johnny Hooker (Robert Redford) and Luther Coleman (Robert Earl Jones) pull a pigeon drop on a numbers runner for Doyle Lonnegan (Robert Shaw), resulting in the murder of Coleman. This provides the motive for Hooker to seek out Henry Gondorff (Paul Newman) to run the titular sting on Lonnegan.\n\nIn \"The Golden Girls\", season 5 episode \"Cheaters,\" Blanche and Sophia are victims of a pigeon drop at the local mall.\n\nIn \"The Rockford Files\", season 2, episode 2 \"The Farnsworth Strategem,\" Audrey Wyatt (played by Linda Evans) states she had only meet Simon Lloyd \"last year. He was working a bad variation of the pigeon drop scam and I cleaned it up.\"\n\nIn John D. MacDonald's Book, Pale Gray for Guilt, Travis McGee, with the help of his sidekick Meyer, takes $60,000 from a mark using the Pigeon Drop scheme.\n\n"}
{"id": "1906151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906151", "title": "Ruehl No.925", "text": "Ruehl No.925\n\nRuehl No.925 was an upscale clothing brand owned by Abercrombie & Fitch, selling apparel, leather goods, and luxury goods. Themed after New York City's Greenwich Village, the store was meant to attract post-graduate individuals aged 22 to 35, competing primarily with J.Crew, Polo Ralph Lauren, and American Eagle Outfitters' equally short-lived spinoff Martin + Osa. Ruehl was the only brand in the Abercrombie portfolio that sold black clothes.\n\nThe first Ruehl No.925 stores opened on September 24, 2004 at Westfield Garden State Plaza in Paramus, New Jersey, Woodfield Mall in Schaumburg, Illinois, and at International Plaza and Bay Street in Tampa, Florida.\n\nSimilar to Abercrombie & Fitch's moose logo and Hollister Co.'s seagull, Ruehl featured a French bulldog named \"Trubble\" embroidered on its clothing and accessories.\n\nOn June 17, 2009, Abercrombie & Fitch announced it would cease operations of the Ruehl brand.\n\nRuehl's storefront was meant to resemble a series of brownstone buildings, with concrete walkways, hedges, flower boxes, and iron gates at the front door. The interior was sectioned off into numerous bedrooms, living rooms, and conservatories meant to mimic the interior of a home. Bookshelves lined the \"living room\", chandeliers hung from the ceiling of the \"bedrooms\", portraits sat on the floor, tilted against walls, and a central hallway divided the store in half.\n\nAt the time of the concept's closure, Ruehl had 29 full-line store locations in the United States:\n\nThe brand also operated one off-mall accessories store, a store at 370 Bleecker Street, New York City, New York.\n\nIn July 2007, Levi Strauss & Co. filed a lawsuit against Abercrombie & Fitch for trademark infringement, alleging that Ruehl jeans and other products used Levi's trademarked pocket design of connected arches. Levi's filed a similar suit against Polo Ralph Lauren.\n"}
{"id": "1906155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906155", "title": "Rick Brant", "text": "Rick Brant\n\nRick Brant is the central character in a series of 24 adventure and mystery novels by John Blaine, a pseudonym for authors Harold L. Goodwin (all titles) and Peter J. Harkins (co-author of the first three). The series was published by Grosset & Dunlap between 1947 and 1968, with the previously unpublished title, \"The Magic Talisman\" printed in 1990 in a limited edition as the concluding #24.\n\nIn the series, teenaged Rick Brant and his ex-Marine pal, Don \"Scotty\" Scott live on Spindrift Island off the coast of New Jersey, where Rick's father, Hartson Brant, heads the Spindrift Foundation, a group of scientists. Rick and Scotty are involved in various adventures at home and abroad. Besides Hartson Brant, the recurring supporting characters in the series include:\n\n\nVarious Spindrift scientists also appear several times:\n\n\nThe Rick Brant series has a scientific tone and was taglined as \"Electronic Adventures\", \"Science-Adventure Stories\", and finally \"SCIENCE Adventures\". The science in the stories is realistic, unlike the more fantastic science of Tom Swift, Jr.\n\nHal Goodwin was a popular science writer with a strong technical background and a sense of style unusual in the juvenile adventure-series field. The books are suspenseful, well-plotted, atmospheric, and enriched by humor and acute characterization as well as personal experience. Exotic locales such as tropical islands, the Philippine jungles, and the Himalayas were given vivid and well-researched depictions, as were a variety of specialized hobbies and professions, such as scuba diving, infrared photography, home rocketry, and the inevitable espionage work. Rick was also a private pilot who owned his own airplanes and used them in a number of the books. His first plane was apparently a Piper J-4 and in later books a Stinson 108. Like the \"Ken Holt\" mystery series, the tales appealed to a slightly older audience than did the typical Grosset & Dunlap titles. (Ken Holt had a crossover cameo in \"The Flying Stingaree\", and Rick lent some of his gadgets to Ken in \"The Mystery of the Plumed Serpent\", by agreement of the respective authors.)\n\nThe publishers were averse to any suggestion of the supernatural in the series. An ambiguous end to \"The Blue Ghost Mystery\" was dropped, and an entire book (\"The Magic Talisman\") was rejected due to its inclusion of ESP elements. This lost tale was eventually published in an independent edition in 1990.\n\nBeginning in the 1980s, Grosset & Dunlap began transferring the copyrights to Hal Goodwin. The rights are now held by the John Blaine/Rick Brant Trust. The Goodwin family has been working to bring the works back in print, starting with the rarer final four books.\n\nRick Brant never graduated to any other medium of entertainment, although there are notable similarities to be found in the \"Jonny Quest\" franchise.\n\nOn November 9, 2010 an e-book titled \"The Rick Brant Science-Adventure Series\" was released on Amazon for the Kindle eReader containing eleven of the original novels.\n\n\nThese titles are available from Project Gutenberg.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1906162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906162", "title": "Alejandro O'Reilly, 1st Count of O'Reilly", "text": "Alejandro O'Reilly, 1st Count of O'Reilly\n\nAlejandro O'Reilly, 1st Count of O'Reilly, KOA (; October 24, 1723 in Baltrasna, Co. Meath, Ireland – March 23, 1794 in Bonete, Spain), English: Alexander, Count of O'Reilly, was an Irish-born military reformer and Inspector-General of Infantry for the Spanish Empire in the second half of the 18th century. O'Reilly served as the second Spanish governor of colonial Louisiana, and was the first Spanish official to exercise power in the Louisiana territory after France ceded it to Spain following defeat by Great Britain in the Seven Years' War. For his much-appreciated services to the Crown of Spain, O'Reilly was ennobled as a \"conde\" (count), and granted a coat of arms.\n\nAlexander O'Reilly (Irish: Ó Raghallaigh) was born in Baltrasna, Co. Meath, in the Kingdom of Ireland in 1723. His grandfather John Reyly was a colonel in the army of James II, whose regiment—O’Reilly’s Dragoons—fought at the siege of Derry. The family was from Baltrasna, in County Meath. Like many so-called \"Wild Geese\" of his generation, O'Reilly left Ireland to serve in foreign, Catholic armies. He joined Spanish forces fighting in Italy against the Austrians. After campaigning in the Spanish invasion of Portugal, O'Reilly swore allegiance to Spain and rose to become a brigadier general.\n\nO'Reilly stayed acting for the Conde de Ricla, twice a Grandee of Spain, in Havana, Cuba, as his adjutant and second-in-command. While in Havana, Ricla and O'Reilly received the city back from the British forces that had besieged and occupied it at the end of the Seven Years' War.\n\nO'Reilly analyzed what had gone wrong with the defenses of Havana during the successful British siege in 1762. He recommended sweeping reforms to improve the fortifications, training, practices, and troop organizations, which were quickly approved by the Spanish Crown. With the help of a military engineer of the Royal Army, Silvestre de la Abarca, the works of the strategic fortress of La Cabaña was undertaken.\n\nIn 1765, King Carlos III sent O'Reilly to the island of Puerto Rico to assess the state of the defenses of that colony. O'Reilly, known today as the \"father of the Puerto Rican militia,\" took a complete census of the island and recommended numerous reforms, including instilling strict military discipline in the local troops. He insisted that the men serving the defense of the realm receive their pay regularly and directly, rather than indirectly from their commanding officers, a long-standing practice that had led to abuses. Some of O'Reilly's recommendations resulted in a massive 20-year program of building up the Castle of Old San Juan, now a World Heritage Site.\n\nReturning to Cuba, O'Reilly married into a prominent Cuban family. His wife, Doña Rosa de Las Casas, was the sister of Luis de Las Casas, who served as Governor of Cuba.\n\nO'Reilly was an uncle of Juan MacKenna, a hero of the Chilean War of Independence. So too was he a cousin of Hugo Oconór or Hugh O'Conor. He was a member of the noble O'Conor Don family, is the founding father of the city of Tucson, Arizona, and was later the 23rd Governor of the Spanish Colony of Texas and then the Governor of Yucatán.\n\nO'Reilly was appointed Governor and Captain-General of colonial Louisiana while in Spain in April 1769, with orders to immediately proceed to Havana, embark 3,000 troops there, put down the revolt in Louisiana, and re-establish order. Some French colonists, known as Creoles as they were born in the colony, had worked to expel the first Spanish governor after France ceded this territory.\n\nArriving in New Orleans in August 1769, O'Reilly took formal possession of Louisiana. O'Reilly held trials and severely punished those French Creoles who were responsible for the expulsion of Spain's first colonial Governor Antonio de Ulloa (1716 - 1795), from the colony. He is remembered in New Orleans as \"Bloody O'Reilly\" because he had six prominent rebel French colonists executed, in October 1769. In December 1769 he allowed the Acadians who had settled in present-day Arkansas on the Mississippi River opposite Natchez to resettle on the Amite River near Lakes Maurepas and Pontchartrain. Other French rebels were exiled, and some were sent for life imprisonment in the Morro Castle in Havana.\n\nHaving crushed the ringleaders who had led the Louisiana Rebellion of 1768 (the uprising against Ulloa and Spanish rule), O'Reilly sent most of his troops back to Cuba. He concentrated on organizing Louisiana's administration and on stabilizing the food supply. It had historically imported grains from northern French settlements along the Mississippi, as they could not be cultivated near New Orleans. \nO'Reilly reformed many French bureaucratic practices which were in place before Spanish rule. Again, as in his 1765 mission to Puerto Rico, O'Reilly's proclamations and rulings affected many aspects of life in Spanish Louisiana. He allowed slaves to purchase their freedom and enabled slave owners to more easily manumit slaves. He banned the trade of Native American slaves and abolished Indian slavery. He regularized the weights and measurements used in marketplaces, regulated doctors and surgeons, and improved public safety by funding bridge and levee maintenance.\n\nHaving restored public order, O'Reilly assigned the post of Governor of Louisiana to the Colonel of the Havana Regiment in December 1769, retaining the post of Captain-General for himself. Louisiana was firmly placed as a dependency of the military and political establishment in Cuba.\n\nBack in Spain after October 1770, O'Reilly was charged to organize six new regiments to be trained near Cádiz, ready for transportation to the Caribbean should a new war between Spain and Great Britain break out.\nIn 1775, O'Reilly was given command of a major Spanish expedition attacking Algiers. Although this North African campaign failed, the high reputation of O'Reilly was not destroyed, and he continued to serve as captain-general in southern Spain.\n\nHe died in the city of Cádiz in 1794, aged 72, while on his way to take command of an army in the Eastern Pyrenees that had been ordered to oppose invading French revolutionary forces, just after the beheading of Louis XVI.\n\nO'Reilly is buried in the parish church in Bonete in Castile-La Mancha, Spain. A street in Cádiz still bears his name, as does one, Calle O'Reilly/Sráid Ó Raghallaigh, in Old Havana, Cuba. It marks the spot where O'Reilly came ashore in 1763 while the English were embarking to leave.\n\n"}
{"id": "1906165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906165", "title": "Almaqah", "text": "Almaqah\n\nAl-maqah or Al-muqh (Musnad: 𐩱𐩡𐩣𐩤𐩠; ) was the moon God of the ancient Yemeni kingdom of Saba'. He was also worshipped in the kingdoms of Dʿmt and Aksum in Eritrea and Northern Ethiopia.\n\nJacques Ryckmans states, \nThe ruling dynasty of Saba' regarded themselves as his seed. Almaqah is represented on monuments by a cluster of lightning bolts surrounding a curved, sickle-like weapon. Bulls were sacred to him.\n\nBoth the Barran Temple and the Awwam temple were dedicated to Almaqah.\n\n"}
{"id": "1906167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906167", "title": "Ourika", "text": "Ourika\n\nOurika is an 1823 novel by Claire de Duras, originally published anonymously.\n\n\"Ourika\" is a story based on the life of a woman who was purchased as a child (in or around 1786) by the Chevalier de Boufflers, the colonial administrator of Senegal, and given as a gift to the de Beauvau family.\n\nThe novel marks a critical point in European literature. It is the first French text to depict a black woman character with a complex psychology. It is the first text to create \"an articulate and educated black woman narrator,\" and \"one of the most compelling works of short fiction in French and a startlingly modern commentary on race.\"\n\nThe novella covers the time before, during, and after the French Revolution and addresses key themes of race, nationality, exile, interracial love and kinship and the psychological adjustment to these. It signifies an important movement from traditional notions of race, nationality, and kinship towards the identity politics of today.\n\nIn his journal, the Chevalier de Boufflers wrote of the purchase of the slave girl whose life would later be documented in Duras' novella: 'I am buying at the moment a little Négresse of two or three years of age in order to send her to Madame de Duchess of Orléans… I feel myself brought to tears in thinking that this poor child has been sold to me like a little lamb.\" Ourika died at sixteen of a mysterious illness. The Duchess of Orléans's little Négresse provided lively conversation in the salons of nineteenth-century Paris where Boufflers's letters were read. And these 'lively' conversations provided fodder for Claire de Duras's fictional Ourika. \n\nThe life of the real-life Ourika was a subject of much conversation in many nineteenth century Paris, and spawned many poems, plays and novels in the popular press, including \"La Nouvelle Ourika\" (1824) and \"La Négresse\" (1826). The most famous of these is the novel \"Ourika\" by Claire de Duras. Duras's story is based on a few bare bones of historical facts, and was committed (reluctantly) to the page by Claire de Duras. She only did so to prevent any possible plagiarism , as she recounted the story—with much acclaim—to those attending her salon in post-Revolutionary Paris. She was the close friend of François-René de Chateaubriand, whom she had met in exile in London, and who helped her in publishing this story among others .\n\nThe novel opens from the point of view of a doctor, who has been called to treat a dying young nun in a convent. This nun is a young black woman called Ourika, who is dying of \"melancholia.\" As an effort to cure her, he asks Ourika to tell him her story. Ourika begins by relating how she was \"saved\" from the slave trade as an infant by the governor of Senegal, and brought back to Paris as a gift for Madame de B. She is raised well, according to the standards for white Parisian girls of high society-she is taught to sing by the best voice coaches, instructed in painting by a famous artist, is well-read and is accomplished in many languages. Ourika also says that prior to a critical moment in her life at the age of twelve, she had no consciousness of her race or any other racial barriers: \"I reached the age of twelve without it once occurring to me that there was a way of being happy beside mine. I didn't regret being black. I was told that I was an angel. There was nothing to warn me that the color of my skin might be a disadvantage.\" \n\nIn order to show off Ourika's talents, Mme de B. organizes a ball to show Ourika off, in which she dances as \"Africa.\" Ourika does well in her dance, but later overhears an earth-shattering conversation. A friend of Mme de B., an unnamed Marquise, declares that Mme de B. has done Ourika a disgrace by raising her above her station, which means that Ourika will now be forever unhappy. The Marquise announces, to Ourika's shock, “What kind of man would marry a Negress?\"\n\nOurika is then struck by the realization of her skin color, and undergoes a psychological reaction akin to Frantz Fanon's account of racial awareness in \"Peau Noire, Masques Blancs\" (\"Black Skin, White Masks\"), which has been termed \"racial melancholia\", \"whereby racial identification becomes a site of ongoing trauma that is supported by loss and compensation.\". She begins to avoid mirrors, covering up her skin with gloves and hats, and begins to see her hands as \"monkey's paws,\" going so far as to say that \"this skin color of mine seemed to me like the brand of shame.\" \n\nOurika also falls in love with Charles, Madame de B.'s grandson. However, he does not realize she is in love with him, and ends up marrying a young heiress, Anaïs de Thèmines, whose family have been killed by the French Revolutionaries. This drives her into depression, or \"melancholy,\" that is so deep that she almost dies. She finally ends up retreating to the convent, where the doctor meets her.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1906171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906171", "title": "Ladbrokes Coral", "text": "Ladbrokes Coral\n\nLadbrokes Coral is a British betting and gambling company. It is based in London. It previously owned the Hilton hotel brand outside the United States, and was known as Hilton Group plc from 1999 to 2006. In November 2016, Ladbrokes acquired Gala Coral Group, and changed its name to Ladbrokes Coral. \n\nThe company was listed on the London Stock Exchange, and was a member of the FTSE 250 Index, until it was acquired by GVC Holdings in March 2018.\n\nThe company was founded by Messrs. Schwind and Pennington in 1886, as commission agents for horses trained at Ladbroke Hall in Warwickshire. The name Ladbrokes was adopted in 1902, when Arthur Bendir joined the partnership, and operations were moved to London.\n\nLadbrokes' London offices were first in the vicinity of the Strand, moved to Hanover Square in 1906 and, in 1913, to Six Old Burlington Street, Mayfair. From 1913 to 1956, Ladbrokes' clientele was exclusively drawn from the British aristocracy and upper classes, many of whom were members of the elite gentlemen's clubs in the St James's area of Central London.\n\nUnusually for the times, Ladbrokes' principal longtime representative on British racecourses was a woman, Helen Vernet. Having joined the firm in 1919, she was made a partner in 1928 and remained with the firm until shortly before her death in 1956, at the age of 80.\n\nFollowing the end of World War II, Ladbrokes' fortunes were in steady decline, thanks to an austere postwar economic climate, a dwindling client base, and reluctance to change the firm's specialised approach to bookmaking. As a result, in 1956 the company was acquired by Mark Stein and his nephew Cyril Stein for a reported £100,000.\n\nIn 1961, the government legalised betting shops under the Betting and Gaming Act. As managing director, Stein used profits from the business's traditional areas to establish a chain of betting shops; he was the first to introduce fixed odds football betting. The company first diversified outside of the betting business by taking a major stake in the Dragonara Palace in Malta, a casino and hotel, which opened its first phase in 1964.\n\nIn 1967, Ladbrokes was floated on the London Stock Exchange. From 1967 to 1973, Ladbrokes' retail betting business grew from less than 50 shops to 1,135, and the company expanded its ventures to include bingo clubs, hotels under the Dragonara brand, casinos in London, holiday centres, and real estate investments.\n\nIn 1975 Ladbrokes moved into racecourse management by purchasing Lingfield Park. This was followed by the acquisitions in 1976 of Perry Barr Stadium and Totalisators and Greyhound Holdings, which owned six greyhound racing stadia at Brough Park, Crayford & Bexleyheath, Leeds, Gosforth, Willenhall and Monmore. Arthur Aldridge, formerly of the Greyhound Racing Association, joined Ladbrokes as Racing Director.\n\nThe company was rocked by scandal in 1979 with the exposure of illegal marketing schemes at its London casinos, including the bribery of a police officer to obtain information about high rollers at competing casinos. As a result, Ladbrokes was forced to close its four casinos in London, which accounted for roughly 40% of the company's profits.\n\nLadbrokes acquired Texas Homecare, a chain of DIY stores, in 1986. In October 1987, it acquired Hilton International from Allegis Corporation for £645 million, gaining 91 hotels and the rights to the Hilton brand outside of the United States. In 1989 Ladbrokes acquired Vernons Football Pools.\n\nStein retired in January 1994 under pressure from investors because of the company's rising debts and losses. Under new management, Ladbrokes focused on its core areas of hotels and gambling, and began to divest other parts of its business. Texas Homecare was sold to Sainsbury's in January 1995 for £290 million.\n\nLadbrokes' extensive portfolio of commercial and residential real estate, valued at £1 billion in 1993, was sold off in pieces and by March 1997 was down to £70 million. As part of its redoubled focus on gambling, Ladbrokes returned to casinos in September 1994, with a £50 million purchase of three clubs in London, which it stated was the first step in building an international casino business.\n\nIn September 1998 Ladbrokes purchased Coral, a chain of betting shops with 891 locations, from Bass plc for £363 million. The UK Government, however, ordered Ladbrokes to sell Coral after the Monopolies and Mergers Commission found that the acquisition was anti-competitive. The Coral business, except for 59 shops in Ireland and Jersey, was sold in a management buyout financed by Morgan Grenfell Private Equity for £390 million in February 1999.\n\nIn March 1999, the company acquired Stakis Hotels for £1.3 billion, gaining 53 hotels and 22 casinos. Later that year, Ladbrokes renamed itself as Hilton Group plc, to reflect its increasing focus on the hotel business, which had come to represent over 80 percent of the company's assets.\n\nIn August 1999, Hilton Group decided to dispose of its gambling operations outside of Europe due to disappointing results. Most of the assets, including racetracks and casinos in the United States and bingo and betting businesses in South America, were sold by 2001. In addition, the company sold its 27 casinos in the United Kingdom to the Gala Group in December 2000 for £236 million.\n\nIn February 2006, the company sold its hotel operations to Hilton Hotels Corporation for £3.5 billion, and once more rebranded itself as Ladbrokes plc. In March 2007, the Vernons brand was sold to Sportech.\n\nFollowing the introduction of the Gambling Act 2005 in the United Kingdom and the subsequent relaxation of advertising laws for gambling companies in 2007, a television campaign by Ladbrokes that included a host of ex-professional footballers was the first to result in complaints to the Advertising Standards Authority (ASA); the ASA eventually cleared the campaign. The company once again came under fire from the ASA in January 2009, due to complaints relating to an advertising campaign. \nSince 2007, Ladbrokes operated in Spain through the LBApuestas brand, but in April 2014 it terminated its licence for LBApuestas and created a website, Sportium, in a joint venture with the Spanish gaming and leisure operator Cirsa. The company entered the online betting market in Australia with its acquisition of Bookmaker.com.au for £13 million in September 2013, followed by a purchase of Betstar for £12 million in April 2014.\n\nIn 2007, billionaire John Magnier and his business partner racing tycoon JP McManus began building a stake in Ladbrokes, estimated in 2008 to be more than 10%. In February 2008, it was discovered that another associate of Magnier's, Joe Lewis, had built a stake estimated at 7%.\n\nIn June 2015, Ladbrokes announced that they were in talks with the board of Gala Coral Group over a possible merger. The combination of the two companies created Britain's biggest bookmaker, with over 4,000 betting shops and 30,000 employees.\n\nIn July 2016, the Competition and Markets Authority identified 642 areas where the merger would harm local competition, and said 350 to 400 shops would need to be sold off for the merger to be approved. The merger was completed on 2 November 2016. To effect the merger, Ladbrokes acquired the Coral Group and then changed its name from Ladbrokes plc to Ladbrokes Coral Group plc.\n\nIn December 2017, GVC Holdings agreed to buy Ladbrokes Coral in a deal that could be worth up to £4 billion.\n\nIn January 2018, Ladbrokes Coral and the Scottish Professional Football League agreed to extend the betting company's sponsorship agreement until at least 2020. The deal will see the bookmaker remain the principal sponsor of the top four divisions of Scottish football in a deal worth up to £5 million.\n\nIn March 2018, Ladbrokes completed their omnichannel integration strategy with software provider Playtech, offering single account functionality for all its online, mobile and retail products in the UK. Also in March 2018, GVC Holdings completed its acquisition with GVC shareholders owning 53.5% and Ladbrokes Coral 46.5% of the combined company.\n\nIn December 2018, Ladbrokes paid victims £1 million in compensation after it was disclosed that a problem gambler had been stealing funds from his business clients to fund his habit. The payments were made on the condition that the victims did not report the operator to the UK Gambling Commission, the regulatory body in charge of monitoring all gambling in the United Kingdom.\n\nOn 31 July 2019, the UK Gambling Commission announced that Ladbrokes Coral would pay £5.9m for past failings in anti money laundering and social responsibility. An investigation found that the companies failed to put in place effective safeguards, to prevent consumers suffering gambling harm and against money laundering, between November 2014 and October 2017.\n\nOn February 14, 2020, the Liquor and Gaming New South Wales regulatory agency imposed a fine of AUD207,500 on Ladbrokes Australia and another GVC Holdings brand, Neds, for offering illegal gambling inducements to New South Wales residents. The regulator called it \"the biggest ever fine of its kind\" in NSW.\n"}
{"id": "1906174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906174", "title": "Newtown (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Newtown (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nNewtown was a parliamentary borough located in Newtown on the Isle of Wight, which was represented in the House of Commons of England until 1707, then in the House of Commons of Great Britain from 1707 to 1800, and finally in the House of Commons of the United Kingdom from 1801 to 1832. It was represented by two members of parliament (MPs), elected by the bloc vote system.\n\nThe borough was abolished in the Great Reform Act of 1832, and from the 1832 general election its territory was included in the new county constituency of Isle of Wight.\n\nNewtown, located on the large natural harbour on the north-western coast of the Isle of Wight, was the first borough established in the county. A French raid in 1377, which destroyed much of the town as well as other settlements on the island, sealed its permanent decline. By the mid-16th century it was a small settlement long eclipsed by the more easily defended town of Newport. To try to stimulate economic development, Elizabeth I awarded the town two parliamentary seats.\n\nNewtown was a burgage borough, meaning that the right to vote was vested solely in the owners of a specified number of properties or \"burgage tenements\". At the time of the Great Reform Act of 1832 there were 39 burgage tenements, held by 23 burgesses; however, most of these held only life grants. It was common practice for life grants to be made to friends of the proprietors so as to ensure that the full voting power could be exercised; if these nominees failed to vote as expected, they could be ejected and replaced by somebody more reliable before the next election. These voters were often non-resident – and indeed, it could hardly be otherwise, for although there were 39 burgage tenements, there were only 14 houses. Unlike many rotten boroughs, no single landowner controlled a majority of the burgages: the reversionary rights in them belonged to three families (Barrington, Holmes and Anderson-Pelham), with none having an overall majority. Elections in the borough consequently required careful management and sometimes considerable expenditure to achieve the desired result. In the 1750s and 1760s, the arrangement was that one of the two seats was considered to be in the gift of the Barrington family, while Thomas Holmes negotiated the election of the government's nominee for the other, unless he wanted it for a member of the Holmes family.\n\nBy 1831, the borough had a population of just 68, and it was disestablished the following year by the Reform Act.\n\nNotes\n\n"}
{"id": "1906176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906176", "title": "Lode, Cambridgeshire", "text": "Lode, Cambridgeshire\n\nLode is a small village in East Cambridgeshire on the southern edge of The Fens. It lies just north of the B1102 between Quy and Swaffham Bulbeck, to the north east of Cambridge. It has the highest number of startups per capita of any area in the United Kingdom.\nThe village's name is derived from its location at the southern end of Bottisham Lode that links it to the River Cam. A lode is an artificial water channel used to drain the Fens, thought to be of Roman origin.\n\nLode also has the smaller hamlet settlement of Long Meadow as part of the parish to the east along the B1102.\n\nLode is a comparatively new civil parish, having been separated from Bottisham in 1894.\n\nLode is the location of Anglesey Abbey, which was formerly the home of the Fairhaven family, who lived there for many years, but is now the property of the National Trust.\nThe 1st Baron Fairhaven (1896-1966) was responsible for the unique gardens in the grounds of the former 12th-century abbey. Also part of the estate is Lode Mill, a restored watermill that is open to the public.\n\nIn the 19th century, Anglesey Abbey was owned and occupied by Reverend Hailstone who was also vicar of Bottisham. Convinced that Lode merited its own church, he built the present church of St James, which was dedicated in 1853. The Hailstone family provided a vicar for the following 80 years.\n\nChildren initially attend Bottisham Community Primary school and usually then go on to Bottisham Village College. After this they can go on to one of the many Further Education Sixth form colleges, located in the nearby city of Cambridge.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1906196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906196", "title": "Estlink", "text": "Estlink\n\nEstlink is a set of HVDC submarine power cables between Estonia and Finland. Estlink 1 is the first interconnection between the Baltic and Nordic electricity markets followed by Estlink 2 in 2014. The main purpose of the Estlink connection is to secure power supply in both regions to integrate the Baltic and Nordic energy markets.\n\nFirst plans for a submarine power cable between the Baltic and the Nordic regions were proposed in 1990s. Negotiations between Eesti Energia, Pohjolan Voima, Helsingin Energia, Graninge (now E.ON Sverige), Latvenergo, Statkraft and TXE Nordic Energy, a subsidiary of TXU (now Energy Future Holdings Corporation) started In 1999, and on 9 October 2001 a contract was signed in Tallinn. However, only after the harsh winter of 2002–2003 which resulted in an increased demand for power, the project of the submarine cable between Estonia and Finland got a boost. The letter of intention for underwater sea cable was signed between Eesti Energia, Pohjolan Voima, Helsingin Energia and Latvenergo on 31 March 2003. In May 2004, the Lithuanian power company Lietuvos Energija agreed to participate in the project, shortly after which the project company AS Nordic Energy Link was established. On 29 April 2005, the Estlink project was launched. Construction of Harku converter station and land cable installation begins on 5 April 2006. The submarine cable was laid in September 2006. The Estlink cable was inaugurated on 4 December 2006 and it became fully operational on 5 January 2007.\n\nThe Estlink 1 cable was operated by AS Nordic Energy Link company, founded by Baltic and Finnish power companies. The main shareholder was Eesti Energia with 39.9% of the shares, Latvenergo and Lietuvos Energija had 25% each, and the remaining 10.1% was divided between Pohjolan Voima and Helsingin Energia (operating through their joint project company Finestlink). On 30 December 2013 the interconnector was sold to the transmission system operators Elering and Fingrid.\n\nThe long (including under water) +/-150 kV, 350 MW HVDC link cable is connected to the Estonian electrical system at the Harku 330 kV converter station and to the Finnish transmission network at Espoo 400 kV converter station in Järvikylä using HVDC Light transmission technology. The installation of land cable began on 4 May 2006 in Harku. The submarine cable was laid on the seabed of the Gulf of Finland in the autumn of 2006. The cable's maximum depth on the seabed is .\n\nThe cable is constructed by ABB. The submarine cable was laid by Global Marine Systems using the \"Sovereign\" service vessel. The project cost €110 million.\n\nA preliminary agreement on EstLink 2 was signed between Elering and Fingrid on 15 February 2010 in Tallinn. Capital investment decision by Fingrid was made on 20 May 2010. A construction agreement was signed on 1 November 2010.\n\nOn 23 December 2010, the contract to manufacture and install the subsea and underground cables was awarded to Nexans, the contract to build converter stations was awarded to Siemens, the contract to build the Nikuviken cable terminal station and to expand the Anttila substation in Finland was awarded to Empower Oy, and the contract to build the transmission line between Anttila and Nikuviken was awarded to ETDE, a part of Bouygues.\n\nLaying of the cable started on 15 October 2012 and it is laid by the cable ship \"Nexans Skagerrak\". The cable testing started on 22 October 2013. A trial operation started on 6 December 2013 and continued until 6 February 2014 after which it started commercial operations. It was officially inaugurated on 6 March 2014.\n\nThe total length of Estlink 2 would be , including a long offshore cable, a long onshore cable in Estonia, and of overhead lines in Finland. The long underground cable starts at the Püssi substation and runs the coast of the Gulf of Finland at Aseri. From there the long offshore cable runs to the Nikuviken cable terminal station in Finland. The Nikuviken cable terminal station will be connected with the Attila converter station by the long overhead line.\n\nEstlink 2 will be a classic bidirectional monopolar high-voltage direct current connection with line-commutated converter thyristors. Its maximum transmission rate will be 650 MW and it will operate with a voltage of 450 kV. Its estimated cost is about €320 million, of which converter stations cost €100 million and cable €180 million. The European Commission has decided to allocate €100 million to the project.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1906201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906201", "title": "June 8 (Eastern Orthodox liturgics)", "text": "June 8 (Eastern Orthodox liturgics)\n\nJune 7 - Eastern Orthodox Church calendar - June 9\n\nAll fixed commemorations below celebrated on June 21 by Orthodox Churches on the Old Calendar.\n\nFor June 8th, Orthodox Churches on the Old Calendar commemorate the Saints listed on May 26.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nGreek Sources\nRussian Sources\n"}
{"id": "1906203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906203", "title": "Collection development", "text": "Collection development\n\nLibrary collection development is the process of building the library materials to meet the information needs of the users (a service population) in a timely and economical manner using information resources locally held, as well as from other organizations.\n\nAccording to the International Federation of Library Associations and Institutions (IFLA), acquisition and collection development focuses on methodological and topical themes pertaining to acquisition of print and other analogue library materials (by purchase, exchange, gift, legal deposit), and the licensing and purchase of electronic information resources.\n\nThe development and implementation of a collection development policy is a best practices for libraries and archives, and addresses issues such as:\n\n\nWeeding is an important but difficult aspect of collection development in a library. A librarian may withdraw materials based on the condition, age, relevancy, or lack of space for an item. A professional may decide to replace such items or leave the absence in the collection. The significant act is not without opposition. Historically, both patrons and other librarians criticize weeding books. Some believe libraries should keep all materials in circulation no matter the condition or need for room in the facility for newer material. The controversial nature of collection weeding necessitates the educating of library staff. It provides them with “the tools they need to counter common perceptions or misperceptions regarding weeding”, especially those encountered from faculty in an academic library. Educating the staff with workshops and presentations on collection quality, maintenance and the importance and positive benefits of weeding the collection are important components for a library to consider.\n\nAccording to the IFLA there are four primary reasons for a written collection development policy: selection, planning, public relations, and the wider context. A written selection guidelines provide staff with the tools to access and evaluate potential additional collection materials as well as basis for denying the acceptance of materials. Beyond the addition of new materials this section can also define the parameters for weeding materials, storage standards, and preservation of unstable collection objects. Secondly, planning aids in making decisions for future improvement in library infrastructure and proper distribution of funds for the institution. Thirdly, in the current environment of limited funding and competition between departments and agencies, a written collection policy aids in the library's public relations. This document can be a tool to help potential donors or funders assess the needs of the library, including assets and services. Lastly, in terms of the wider context, the document can aid in collaboration with other institutions in an effort to fulfill the needs of their patrons and community. Each institution will have a better understanding of the plans for each and how they can assist each other in achieving these goals.\n\nSome library evaluation methods include the checklists method, circulation and interlibrary loan statistics, citation analysis, network usage analysis, vendor-supplied statistics and faculty opinion.\n\nWhen acquiring new materials for a library’s collection, it can be difficult to differentiate between selection and censorship. The American Library Association speaks of collections development as selecting materials that are desired by the community as well as fulfilling other educational and recreational criteria. The organization comments that a librarian should not purposely omit the purchase of books or other items due to them being controversial in nature, the author’s religious or political views, or the librarian’s personal beliefs. From the ALA website, they continue the argument by stating that, “Libraries should provide materials and information presenting all points of view on current and historical issues. Materials should not be proscribed or removed because of partisan or doctrinal disapproval.”\nThis method of collection evaluation is the practice of checking a library collection against a list of notable books or materials to see if the collection includes these titles. This is the oldest method of collection evaluation, and its first recorded use occurs in 1849 by Charles Coffin Jewett at the Smithsonian Institution.\n\nCitation analysis is the method most used on the college and university level. This method looks at frequently used citations from bibliographies, indexes, and references to see if the resources used are included in the learning institute's partner library. The purpose is to see if the written work produced can be done using only the library located at the college or university. Citation analysis is a good research method to use in academic libraries on the university and college level when performing a collections evaluation. This method is performed by studying bibliographies from many sources such as student papers, faculty research publications, along with theses and dissertations. This information is then used to see what percentage of the items cited in the bibliographies have come from the academic library’s collection. Citation analysis is used to see if the work produced at the university or college has been written using sources mainly from the academic library at that learning institution.\n\nThe collections grid is a model to discuss items in a collection in terms of their uniqueness, and the amount of care or stewardship they attract. For example, rare books and local history materials are held in few libraries and attract much care as the jewels of a collection, whereas books and DVDs are held in many libraries and don't attract as much care.\n\nOpen source data analysis tools like Unpaywall Journals allow to collate various sources of data and assumptions to simplify the selection of the most effective set of electronic resources for the goals of a library.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1906206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906206", "title": "Viscount FitzWilliam", "text": "Viscount FitzWilliam\n\nViscount FitzWilliam, of Merrion in the County of Dublin, was a title in the Peerage of Ireland. It was created in 1629 for Thomas FitzWilliam, along with the subsidiary title Baron FitzWilliam, of Thorncastle in the County of Dublin, also in the Peerage of Ireland. He was succeeded by his son Oliver, the second Viscount. In 1661 Oliver was created Earl of Tyrconnell in the Peerage of Ireland. The earldom became extinct on his death in 1667, but he was succeeded in the barony and viscountcy by his younger brother William FitzWilliam, the third Viscount. William's grandson Richard, the fifth Viscount, represented Fowey in the British Parliament. His son Richard, the sixth Viscount, was a member of both the Irish and English Privy Councils. The seventh Viscount was a benefactor and musical antiquarian. The titles became extinct on the death of the ninth Viscount in 1833.\n\nThe family seat was Mount Merrion House, County Dublin: they also owned Baggotrath Castle and Merrion Castle, both of which have long since disappeared. The Viscounts FitzWilliam had no direct relationship with the Earls FitzWilliam. They are recorded in Ireland from the beginning of the thirteenth century, and through acquisition of large estates in Dublin, became within a few generations one of its dominant families. Their Dublin estates passed by inheritance to the Earl of Pembroke, whose descendants are still substantial landowners in the area.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1906214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906214", "title": "Providence Country Day School", "text": "Providence Country Day School\n\nThe Providence Country Day School (often abbreviated to the initials PCD) is a private middle and high school, founded in 1923. Located in East Providence, Rhode Island, United States, it serves approximately 200 students in grades 6 through 12. The school has no religious affiliation and has been co-ed since 1991.\n\nHead of School - Kevin Folan\n\nAssistant Head and Principal - Mark McLaughlin\nThere are 17 different sports played at PCD at the Middle School, Junior Varsity, and Varsity levels of competition. Athletic teams compete in either the Rhode Island Interscholastic League or the SENE division of the New England Preparatory School Athletic Conference, and each year at least 30% of the teams compete in league championships. In the fall PCD offers Cross Country, Soccer, Football, Volleyball, and Tennis (women's). Winter sports include Basketball, Gymnastics, Ice Hockey, (indoor and track & field), Swimming, and Wrestling. In the spring PCD competes in Baseball, Golf, Lacrosse, Sailing, Track & Field, and tennis (boys). The school's commitment to the participation in all areas of school life requires that students are members of at least two sports teams each year.\n\nEach year, students are invited to enroll in international programs that emphasize language mastery, cultural awareness, and community service. Some international programs are available each year while others vary, depending on student and teacher interest. Among the locations PCD students have studied and traveled are Ecuador, France, Spain and Italy. Currently, students have the opportunity to spend a trimester exchange in Ecuador, visit Quebec City for a long weekend, spend spring break studying marine ecology in St. John, USVI, and travel to Peru to visit Macchu Picchu and other archaeological and cultural sites.\n\nThe Rhode Island Philharmonic Orchestra and Music School is across the street from the PCD campus. PCD Upper and Middle School students can enroll in individual instruction with the Music School's professional musicians, as well as use their facilities for class instruction and practice space. The Music School's performance space is also available for PCD musical groups.\n\nSince 2000, the late senator John H. Chafee ’40 and his family and friends have sponsored the Chafee Leadership Forum, an annual dialogue with a notable leader in politics and society. Students throughout Rhode Island are invited to the Forum to experience unfolding political events, meet international and national leaders, and broaden their perspectives and understanding of contemporary issues. Recent Chafee Leadership Forum speakers have included U.S. Senator Jack Reed and former U.S. Senator Lincoln Chafee, as well as congressional candidates David Cicillini and Russell Taub.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1906215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906215", "title": "Alternative Democratic Reform Party", "text": "Alternative Democratic Reform Party\n\nThe Alternative Democratic Reform Party (ADR; , , ) is a national-conservative and populist political party in Luxembourg. It has four seats in the sixty-seat Chamber of Deputies, making it the fifth-largest party.\n\nThe party was founded in 1987, as a single-issue party from demanding equality of state pension provision between civil servants and all other citizens. In the 1989 election, it won four seats, and established itself as a political force. It peaked at seven seats in 1999, due to mistrust of politicians failing to resolve the pensions gap, before falling back to four today. Its significance on a national level makes it the most successful pensioners' party in western Europe.\n\nPolitical success has required the ADR to develop positions on all matters of public policy, developing an anti-establishment, conservative platform. It has adopted economic liberalism, filling a gap vacated by the Democratic Party. It is the largest party in Luxembourg to take a euro-realist/softly eurosceptic line, and is a member of the anti-federalist Alliance of Conservatives and Reformists in Europe. The ADR wishes to implement Swiss-style direct democracy. There has been debate whether the party should be classified as populist, although most experts agree that the ADR is better characterised as a national-conservative party.\n\nThe ADR has its roots in a demonstration in Luxembourg City on 28 March 1987, held to protest at the disparities between the 5/6ths final salary scheme enjoyed by civil servants and the basic state pension received by everyone else. The large crowd, and the collection of 10,000 signatures for a petition demanding change, persuaded the organisers that there was widespread public support. The party was founded on 12 May 1987 as the 'Action Committee 5/6ths Pensions for Everyone' (\"Aktiounskomitee 5/6 Pensioun fir jiddfereen\").\n\nIn the 1989 election to the Chamber of Deputies, on 18 June 1989, the party achieved remarkable success by attracting votes from far beyond its core support base. Many Luxembourgers voted for the ADR as a protest vote, allowing the ADR to register 7.3% of the vote, win 4 of the 60 seats, and come fourth. The spectacular triumph of the party in the election required the leadership to formulate a new party strategy. On 12 November 1989, the name was amended to 'Action Committee 5/6ths' (\"Aktiounskomitee 5/6\"), reflecting its increased attention to other concerns. The party lost one of its deputies, Josy Simon, when he defected to the Democratic Party in spring 1991.\n\nOn 22 November 1992, the name was changed again, to 'Action Committee for Democracy and Pensions Justice' (\"Aktiounskomitee fir Demokratie an Rentengerechtigkeet\"). In December of the same year, the prominent deputy Fernand Rau defected from the Christian Social People's Party (CSV) after it broke its pledge to make him European Commissioner, increasing the ADR's representation back up to four. At the 10 October 1993 local elections, the ADR won 7 seats in communal councils. At the 1994 general election, the ADR got 9.0% of the vote and 5 seats, putting the ADR over the threshold required to qualify as a caucus, but the ADR fell to fifth place, behind the resurgent Greens.\n\nOn 3 August 1998, a law was passed equalising pension provision between civil servants and other workers, fulfilling the ADR's original \"raison d'être\", but this did not prevent the ADR from strengthening its position further. In the 1999 legislative election, the party enjoyed increased success, winning 9.4% of the vote and 7 seats. The results put the ADR back into fourth place, but the Greens managed to hold on to their seat in the simultaneous European elections. October 1999 saw ADR candidates elected in ten communes, with two winning in each of Luxembourg City and Esch-sur-Alzette. The ADR lost two of its Chamber of Deputies seats at the 2004 general election, and its share of the vote fell to under 10%.\n\nOne of ADR's hallmark positions is its euroscepticism, and it is the only eurosceptic party in the Chamber of Deputies. It was the only parliamentary party that actively campaigned against the Treaty establishing a Constitution for Europe, which was put to a referendum and narrowly passed with 56.5% of voters in favour.\n\nOn 2 April 2006 the name was changed once more, to its current name of 'Alternative Democratic Reform Party' (\"Alternativ Demokratesch Reformpartei\"). Significantly, for the first time, the name makes no reference to pension reform, signalling the eagerness of the ADR to further solidify its position as a major party in national politics. However, on 1 May, Aly Jaerling left the party to sit as an independent in the Chamber of Deputies, complaining of the move away from campaigning for pensions. As a result of Jaerling's departure, the party lost its status as a caucus and now only qualifies as a 'group', threatening its future security.\n\nOn 29 May 2008, the ADR deputies and Jaerling were the only members not to vote for the Treaty of Lisbon. In the 2009 Chamber election, the ADR held on to four seats (of which, 2 in Sud), but with a reduced vote share of 8.1%: its worst legislative election result since its first election, in 1989, whilst its vote share fell - albeit by less - in the simultaneous European Parliament election, to 7.4%. Jaerling, running for his own Citizens' List, failed to win a seat in either. This had been in spite of strong pre-election polling, the difference likely to be attributable to the financial crisis pushing voters to more familiar parties.\n\nOn 8 June 2010, the ADR joined the Alliance of Conservatives and Reformists in Europe, a Euro-Realist Europe-wide political party. In the snap-election of 2013, the ADR once again fell in their share of the vote, from 8.14% to 6.64%. However, they did manage to regain one seat, having fallen to only two MPs after the defections of Jacques-Yves Henckes and Jean Colombera. The former sat out the 2009-2013 legislative period as an independent, the latter founded the Party for Full Democracy. Roy Reding regained the mandate in the Centre district, putting the party back at 3 mandates.\n\nDuring the Constitutional Referendum Campaign of 2015, the ADR was the only party to explicitly campaign for the \"3 x No\" vote, thereby rejecting the opening of the right to vote for 16 year-olds and foreign residents, as well as rejecting the idea of limiting minister mandates to 10 years. This campaign was in stark contrast to the campaign of the largest party, the CSV, whose main message was to \"be informed\" when voting. With each question being rejected by between 70% and 80% of the electorate, this event represented a big political win for the ADR in face of the incumbent Government.\n\n3 years after the Referendum, on 2 March 2018, the ADR announced that it would be co-operating with the citizen's movement Wee 2050 - Nee 2015, which had been founded pre-referendum to campaign for the \"3 x No\". The cooperation agreement involved Wee 2050 having up to 8 places on the ADR's electoral lists for the legislative election of October 2018, and ensured that the movement could remain relatively independent by not requiring the Wee 2050 candidates to be members of the ADR per se.\n\nThe party was founded as a single-issue party, to introduce equality between private and public sector pensions. The focus on pension reform allowed it to make it the core campaign issue of all five elections in the first ten years of its formation. By 1998, the party had forced the government to accede almost all of its demands. However, this success has not thwarted the ADR, and it has diversified its programme to cover all aspects of public policy.\n\nThe party is a supporter of economic liberalism, having positioned itself to fill a void left by the Democratic Party. The party is critical of public sector waste and the 'elitist' nature of public spending projects. The ADR is socially conservative. It is opposed to euthanasia and assisted suicide. The party places great importance on promoting the Luxembourgish language, and its electoral success in the 1999 election pushed the CSV-DP government to make knowledge of it a criterion for naturalisation. It is opposed to multiple citizenship.\n\nThe party is marked out from the other parties by being Eurosceptic, sharing this position with only the far left, and being the country's most sovereigntist party. The leadership had supported the proposed European Constitution, endorsing it in the 2004 European election, before changing its position in the spring of 2005 under pressure from party members. In its criticism of the EU, the party puts emphasis on the democratic deficit and transparency. However, in heavily pro-European Luxembourg, the ADR had always fared worse in European elections than on national elections, which were held on the same day. This was the case only until 2014, when the party achieved a slightly better score than it had in the early 2013 national elections, managing to beat the LSAP in the majority of communes.\n\nThe ADR's primary political base are the CSV's 'traditional, rural and rightist' voters. Although the ADR is seen to take votes from the right wing of the CSV, more ADR voters declare themselves to be left-wing than either the CSV or DP. Much of the party's support is in the north of the country, where the ADR received its strongest support in the 1999 (16.7%), 2004 (14.7%) and 2009 Chamber elections (10.3%). In 2013 however it received its highest share of the vote in the Est constituency.\n\nDue to the party's original purpose of pension equality, the party's electoral base is pensioners. However, disproportionately many people under the age of 24 also see the ADR in a positive light. ADR is particularly popular on the Internet, despite the party leadership's lack of interest in the medium, due in part to its popularity amongst young people. The party is most popular amongst people earning less than €30,000, and has attracted support from the part of the CSV's core electorate that have been left out of recent economic growth. As with the CSV and LSAP, the ADR is supported by people with less education.\n\nThe party is backed by the third-largest general trade union in the country, the small Neutral Union of Luxembourg Workers (NGL), which has been the driving force behind the ADR. The ADR has also been close to the Luxembourg Association of Retired and Invalid People (LRIV), which formerly backed the Communist Party. The party has used local celebrities, such as Jean-Pierre Koepp in Nord, to boost its appeal.\n\n\nSince its formation, the ADR has had eleven deputies in the Chamber of Deputies. Its four current deputies are given in bold.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1906226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906226", "title": "Biblia Hebraica Stuttgartensia", "text": "Biblia Hebraica Stuttgartensia\n\nThe Biblia Hebraica Stuttgartensia, abbreviated as BHS or rarely BH, is an edition of the Masoretic Text of the Hebrew Bible as preserved in the Leningrad Codex, and supplemented by masoretic and text-critical notes. It is the fourth edition in the Biblia Hebraica series started by Rudolf Kittel and is published by the Deutsche Bibelgesellschaft (German Bible Society) in Stuttgart.\n\nBHS is a revision of the third edition of the \"Biblia Hebraica\", edited by Paul Kahle, the first printed Bible based on the Leningrad Codex. The footnotes are completely revised. It originally appeared in installments, from 1968 to 1976, with the first one-volume edition in 1977; it has been reprinted many times since.\n\nThe fifth reprint of the was revised and redistributed in 1997. Work is currently under way at the Deutsche Bibelgesellschaft to produce a completely reworked and expanded edition in 20 volumes, known as the Biblia Hebraica Quinta or Fifth Hebrew Bible, which also includes references to and comparisons with recently released material from Qumran texts. Initial volumes of the Bible Hebraica Quinta have been available for sale since 2004. Completion of the project is intended by 2020.\n\nThe work has been published in 15 fascicles from 1968 to 1976 according to this release schedule taken from the Latin \"prolegomena\" in the book.\nThe processing and development of the Masoretic annotations and notes within all editions of the Biblia Hebraica Stuttgartensia was the privilege of Gérard E. Weil. He also released the book \"Massorah Gedolah iuxta codicem Leningradensem B 19a\" at the Pontifical Biblical Institute in 1971, which is the very first Edition of the Masora Magna, what gives an idea of his unique expertise in relation to the Masora.\n\nThe \"Biblia Hebraica Stuttgartensia\" is meant to be an exact copy of the Masoretic Text as recorded in the Leningrad Codex. According to the introductory \"prolegomena\" of the book, the editors have \"accordingly refrained from removing obvious scribal errors\" (these have then been noted in the critical apparatus). Diacritics like the Silluq and Meteg which were missing in the Leningrad Codex also have not been added.\n\nThe only exception to that is the Rafe diacritic which has been consistently omitted in the \"BHS\" due to \"almost insuperable technical difficulties\" with its implementation in the typeface. This is not untypical, since almost every Hebrew Bible print edition, starting with Jacob ben Chayyim's \"Bombergiana\" omits the diacritic (because of its minor importance; it serves as a pronunciation help and is partially redundant due to the Dagesh diacritic, the \"opposite of the Rafe\").\n\nLike its predecessor the Biblia Hebraica Kittel the \"BHS\" adds the letters \"samekh\" \"ס\" (for סתומה, setumah: \"closed portion\") and \"פ\" (for פתוחה, petuchah: \"open portion\") into the text to indicate blank spaces in the Leningrad Codex, which divide the text into sections.\n\nOne more difference to the Leningrad Codex is the book order, the Books of Chronicles have been moved to the end as it appears in common Hebrew bibles, even though it precedes Psalms in the codex.\n\nThe BHS is composed of the three traditional divisions of the Hebrew Scriptures: the Torah (תורה \"instruction\"), Neviim (נבאים \"prophets\"), and the Ketuvim (כתבים \"writings\").\n\nIn the margins are Masoretic notes. These are based on the codex, but have been heavily edited to make them more consistent and easier to understand. Even so, whole books have been written to explain these notes themselves. Some of the notes are marked \"sub loco\" (\"in this place\"), meaning that there appears to be some problem, often that they contradict the text. The editors never published any explanation of what the problems were, or how they might be resolved.\n\nThe \"sub loco\" notes do not necessarily explain interesting text variants; they are, in the vast majority, only notes on inaccurate word countings/frequencies. See Daniel S. Mynatt, \"The Sub Loco Notes in the Torah of Biblia Hebraica Stuttgartensia\" (Bibal, 1994); Christopher Dost, \"The Sub-Loco Notes in the Torah of Biblia Hebraica Stuttgartensia\" (Gorgias, 2016).\n\nFootnotes record possible corrections to the Hebrew text. Many are based on the Samaritan Pentateuch, the Dead Sea Scrolls and on early Bible translations (\"versions\") such as the Septuagint, Vulgate and Peshitta. Others are conjectural emendations.\n\nThe order of the biblical books generally follows the codex, even for the Ketuvim, where that order differs from most common printed Hebrew bibles. Thus the Book of Job comes after Psalms and before Proverbs, and the Megillot are in the order Ruth, Song of Songs, Ecclesiastes, Lamentations and Esther. The only difference is with Chronicles.\n\nThe Torah:\n\nThe \"Nevi'im\":\n\nThe \"Ketuvim\"\n\nIn September 2014 an edition of the BHS called Biblia Hebraica Stuttgartensia: A Reader's Edition (abbreviated as the BHS Reader) was published by the German Bible Society and Hendrickson Publishers. This edition features the same Hebrew text as the regular BHS, but without the Masora on the side margins and with a \"Lexical and Grammatical Apparatus\" on the bottom of the page replacing the critical apparatus of the BHS.\n\nIt was done as a six-year project by Donald R. Vance (Oral Roberts University), George Athas (Moore Theological College) and Yael Avrahami (Oranim Academic College).\n\nThe edition defines an English translation to every word in the text: words that occur 70 times or more are listed in a glossary in the back of the book, and words that occur fewer than 70 times are listed in the apparatus. The translations were mostly taken out of the Hebrew and Aramaic Lexicon of the Old Testament, but also from \"DCH\" and the Brown–Driver–Briggs.\n\nAlongside with the translations it features a grammatical parsing of the words encoded in a system of abbreviations (e.g. an introductory example in the book states that the word \"והקריבו\" from has the note \"\"Hr10s0 קרב\"\" in the apparatus which means that the word is a \"\"Hiphil suffix conjugation third masculine singular verb with a wāv retentive and a third masculine singular pronominal suffix of the root קרב\"\"). It also has a 50-page appendix listing paradigm-tables for strong and weak verbal roots and noun suffixes.\n\nThe \"BHS Reader\" follows a tradition of \"reader's editions\" of Bibles in the original languages. In March 2008 Zondervan published a similar edition done by A. Philip Brown II and Bryan W. Smith from Bob Jones University called \"A Reader's Hebrew Bible\" which is based on Westminster Leningrad Codex 4.10, virtually identical to the BHS. Their translations in the apparatus are based on the same dictionaries (with a threshold of 100 occurrences for glossary or apparatus translations instead of 70 in the \"BHS Reader\") and a simpler parsing system.\n\nThe bible scholar Emanuel Tov has criticised BHS somewhat for having errors, and for correcting errors in later editions without informing the reader.\n\n\n editions\n\nAbout the \n"}
{"id": "1906237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906237", "title": "Bardrainney", "text": "Bardrainney\n\nBardrainney is a neighbourhood of Port Glasgow, in the Inverclyde region of Scotland.\n\nBardrainney, possibly from the Gaelic for \"hill of thorns\", is (post 2000) a housing area, dating from the 1950s and built by the local council, on the hills above Port Glasgow, just to the south of the A761 road to Kilmacolm. The area is called after the farm of that name whose fields the houses occupy. The farm buildings no longer exist, but they were roughly on the site of the house of Alexander Dalzell, factor to the Earls of Glencairn, on the highest spot in the area in the open space at the top end of the present Moss Road, and they may have co-existed with the house. \n"}
{"id": "1906241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906241", "title": "June 9 (Eastern Orthodox liturgics)", "text": "June 9 (Eastern Orthodox liturgics)\n\nJune 8 - Eastern Orthodox Church calendar - June 10\n\nAll fixed commemorations below celebrated on June 22 by Orthodox Churches on the Old Calendar.\n\nFor June 9th, Orthodox Churches on the Old Calendar commemorate the Saints listed on May 27.\n\n\n\n\n\nGreek Sources\nRussian Sources\n"}
{"id": "1906258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906258", "title": "Air Efata", "text": "Air Efata\n\nAir Efata , previously known as Efata Papua Airlines early in its operations, was an airline based in Indonesia. Air Efata was a full-service airline, offering a choice of Deluxe Class and Economy Class, and serving hot meals on flights. E-ticketing was available. \nAir Efata was founded in 2004. Its first flight commenced in early 2004 with one 727-200 from Jakarta to Jayapura. The airline was unable to continue its operations after the aircraft returned to Jakarta. After two years of inactivity, Air Efata recommenced operations on 9 January 2006 with a fleet of MD-83s and MD-88s. Only surviving for a short time, the company had to suspend all service again, and its licence was withdrawn. The CEO and owner of Air Efata committed suicide on January 2007.\n\nIn February 2007, the Transportation Ministry delayed license revocation of 11 idle airlines, including PT Efata Papua Airlines, to give restructuring opportunities to the operators. This did not have any outcome for Air Efata.\n\nAir Efata served :\n\nAs of August 2006 the Efata Papua Airlines fleet included:\n\n\nOn its first ever operation (which was abortive), the airline used :\n\nAir Efata leased the three Boeing-MD83/88 aircraft with a two-class passenger seat configuration from GECAS. Component support was provided by SAS Component Group A/S (a joint venture between ST Aerospace and SAS Technical Services - now named ST Aerospace Solutions (Europe) A/S) of Scandinavia, with engine support by Pratt & Whitney and major maintenance by Garuda Maintenance Facility (GMF).\n"}
{"id": "1906263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906263", "title": "Acenaphthoquinone", "text": "Acenaphthoquinone\n\nAcenaphthoquinone is a quinone derived from acenaphthene. It is a water-insoluble yellow solid. It is a precursor to some agrichemicals and dyes. \n\nThe compound is prepared in the laboratory by oxidation of acenaphthene with potassium dichromate. Commercially, oxidation is effected with peroxide. Over-oxidation gives naphthalenedicarboxylic anhydride.\n\n"}
{"id": "1906293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906293", "title": "Jim Hutton", "text": "Jim Hutton\n\nDana James Hutton (May 31, 1934 – June 2, 1979) was an American actor in film and television best remembered for his role as Ellery Queen in the 1970s TV series of the same name and his screen partnership with Paula Prentiss in four films, starting with \"Where the Boys Are\". He is the father of actor Timothy Hutton.\n\nHutton was born in Binghamton, New York, the son of Helen and Thomas R. Hutton, an editor and managing editor of the Binghamton Press. Hutton's parents divorced while he was an infant, and he never knew his father. \n\nHutton was expelled from five high schools due to behavior problems but had excellent grades and test scores. After starting his school newspaper's sports column, he earned a scholarship in journalism from Syracuse University in 1952. He was expelled from Syracuse after driving a bulldozer through a bed of tulips. \n\nHutton then enrolled at Niagara University, where he began pursuing an acting career. He performed in summer stock in Connecticut and La Jolla, and won state oratory competitions. In 1955 he moved to New York where he became, in his own words, a \"beatnik\". He struggled to find acting work and worried about being able to eat, he joined the US Army.\n\nHutton served in the United States Army from 1956 and starred in over forty Army training films before going to Berlin to serve in special services. Hutton personally founded the American Community Theater by spearheading the renovation of theaters abandoned during World War II. He established the first English-speaking theater in Berlin. \"They turned out to be the kickiest two years of my life,\" he later said.\n\nHutton was performing in live theater in Germany, playing Captain Queeg in a production of \"The Caine Mutiny Court Martial\", while with the United States Army when he was spotted by American film director Douglas Sirk. Sirk offered him in a small role in a film, \"A Time to Love and a Time to Die\" (1958), if he could get leave to join the unit in Nuremberg. Hutton made his debut in the film as a neurotic Nazi who commits suicide. Universal saw footage and expressed interest in offering him a long term contract.\n\nWhile in Germany, Hutton also had a small role in \"Ten Seconds to Hell\" (1959). \n\nWhen Hutton got out of the Army, he moved to Hollywood but discovered the offer from Universal had expired. However he got an agent and started doing auditions.\n\nHutton's first notable screen appearance was in the episode \"And When the Sky Was Opened\" of \"The Twilight Zone\" (1959), in which he co-starred with Rod Taylor. \n\nHe also guest starred on episodes of \"Father Knows Best\" and \"Tate\".\n\nIn 1959 he appeared on stage at the La Jolla Playhouse in \"Look Homeward Angel\" alongside Miriam Hopkins.\n\nHutton auditioned for Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer executives Al Tresconi and Ben Thau. They were impressed enough to offer him a long term contract.\n\n\"But after that they didn't seem to know what to do with me,\" he said. \"I don't fall easily into a mold and they tried different things.\"\n\nMGM put him in \"The Subterraneans\" (1960), a drama about beatniks. The film was a big flop, but Hutton was then cast in a teen comedy for the same studio, \"Where the Boys Are\" (1960), where he appeared alongside a number of young players under contract to the studio, including George Hamilton, Connie Francis, Yvette Mimieux and Paula Prentiss. The movie was a huge success. \n\nDue to his tall, gangly frame and the absent-minded quality of his delivery, Hutton was viewed as a successor to James Stewart.\n\nHutton was romantically teamed in the film with Prentiss, in part because they were the tallest MGM contract players of their time (Hutton at 6'5\" and Prentiss at 5'10\"), and public feedback was extremely positive that MGM decided to make them into a regular team along the lines of William Powell and Myrna Loy.\n\nHutton appeared with Prentiss in \"The Honeymoon Machine\" (1960) supporting Steve McQueen, which was a hit. Then they made \"Bachelor in Paradise\" (1961) starring Bob Hope and Lana Turner, which lost money. Hutton and Prentiss were given top billing in \"The Horizontal Lieutenant\" (1962), which was a box office disappointment. \n\n\"We're not being thrown into films together to play the same parts,\" said Hutton. \"Paula and I have spent too much time and money on our careers and if teaming together happens to go hand and glove with advancing our careers then fine.\"\n\nHutton and Prentiss were announced for \"Away from Home\" to be shot in Mexico by producer Edmund Grainer but the film appears to have not been made. Neither was another announced for them, \"And So To Bed\", to be written and directed by Frank Tashlin.\n\nHutton was meant to play a role in \"How the West Was Won\" (1962), a soldier who tries to desert and fights with George Peppard. However Russ Tamblyn ended up playing the role.\n\nOn February 1962 he and Prentiss made exhibitors list of the top ten \"stars of tomorrow\" alongside Hayley Mills, Nancy Kwan, Horst Bucholz, Carol Lynley, Dolores Hart, Juliet Prowse, Connie Stevens and Warren Beatty.\n\nMGM tried Hutton in a comedy-drama with Jane Fonda, \"Period of Adjustment\" (1962), directed by George Roy Hill. It was a hit at the box office. \n\nMGM announced they would re-team him with Prentiss in \"Follow the Boys\" but he was not in the final film; Prentiss' love interest was played by Russ Tamblyn.\n\nHe did some stage acting at the La Jolla Playhouse in \"Write Me a Murder\" in 1962.\n\nHe was Connie Francis's leading man in \"Looking for Love\" (1964) (in which George Hamilton, Mimieux and Prentiss had cameos). The movie was not a success.\n\nHe was going to be Sandra Dee's leading man in \"The Richest Girl in Town\" but was replaced by Andy Williams for the final film, which became \"I'd Rather Be Rich\".\n\nHutton was tired of playing in comedies. In the words of Hedda Hopper, he turned down \"one script after another\" from MGM for fifteen months before the studio eventually released him from his contract. He signed a one-year contract with Universal and received an offer to make a Western at Columbia, \"Major Dundee\".\n\n\"Dundee\" was directed by Sam Peckinpah and Hutton played the third lead after Charlton Heston and Richard Harris, an ineffective officer. Filming took place in Mexico.\n\nHe followed it with another expensive Western, \"The Hallelujah Trail\" (1965) with Burt Lancaster, directed by John Sturges for United Artists. Both films were financial disappointments, although \"Dundee\"'s reputation has risen in recent years.\n\nHutton was the male juvenile in \"Never Too Late\" (1965) with Paul Ford and Connie Stevens, at Warner Bros. \n\n\"The \"Major Dundee\" and \"Hallelujah Trail\" parts were good,\" he said in an interview around this time, \"but they were peripheral. I'm ready for a take charge part. In all immodesty I don't believe there are many guys my age who can play comedy. Jack Lemmon is the master but who among the younger guys can you think of? A lot of them can clown and laugh at their own jokes.\"\n\nHutton made a pilot for a sitcom about a travelling salesman, \"Barney\", written and directed by Shelley Berman for Screen Gems. However it was not picked up. \n\nHutton made a cameo in \"The Trouble with Angels\".\n\nHe was the second male lead in \"Walk, Don't Run\" (1966), a comedy with Samantha Eggar and Cary Grant (in Grant's last feature-film appearance) at Columbia. Director Charles Walters says Hutton was Grant's personal choice for the role. \"Cary identifies with Hutton,\" he said.\n\nThe success of this film saw Hutton given the lead in Columbia's comedy \"Who's Minding the Mint?\" (1967) but it was not widely seen. He was announced for the lead in \"A Guide for the Married Man\" but when the script changed he ended up asking to be released from it.\n\nIn November 1966 Hutton signed a non-exclusive two-year deal with 20th Century Fox. However, he did not appear in any Fox films.\n\nIn July 1967 Hutton signed to appear in the John Wayne war drama, \"The Green Berets\", in which Hutton played a Special Forces sergeant in a mix of comedy and drama, with a memorable booby trap death scene.\n\nAlso in 1968, Hutton appeared with John Wayne in \"Hellfighters\", playing the role of Greg Parker. The movie was loosely based on the career of oil-well firefighter Red Adair.\n\nIn the early 1970s, Hutton began working almost exclusively in television, guest starring on such shows as \"The Psychiatrist\", \"Love, American Style\" (several times) and \"The Name of the Game\". He was in two TV movies, the thriller \"The Deadly Hunt\" (1971) and a war film \"The Reluctant Heroes of Hill 656\" (1971).\n\nHutton played Erle Stanley Gardner's small-town district attorney hero, Doug Selby, in \"They Call It Murder\" (1971), a TV movie that was a pilot for a proposed series that never eventuated. \n\nHe co-starred with Connie Stevens in \"Call Her Mom\" (1972), a TV movie that was a pilot for a series that was not picked up. He and tried three failed sitcom pilots, \"Wednesday Night Out\", \"Call Holme\", and \"Captain Newman, M.D.\" (the latter, written by Richard Crenna, screened as a TV movie). \n\nHe starred in \"Don't Be Afraid of the Dark\" (1974) and \"The Underground Man\" (1974) and episodes of \"Marcus Welby, M.D.\", \"The Wide World of Mystery\", and \"Ironside\".\n\nHis last theatrical film was \"Psychic Killer\" (1975) directed by Ray Danton.\n\n\"Much of my career downfall was my own fault,\" he said around this time.\n\nHutton had not auditioned since \"Period of Adjustment\" but agreed to do it for the role of fictional amateur detective Ellery Queen in the 1975 made-for-television movie and 1975-1976 television series, \"Ellery Queen\". Hutton's co-star in the series (set in 1946-1947 New York City) was David Wayne, who portrayed his widowed father, an NYPD homicide detective. Ellery, a writer of murder mysteries, assisted his father as an amateur, each week solving an \"actual\" murder case. Near the end of each story before revealing the solution, he would \"break the fourth wall\" by giving the audience a brief review of the clues and asking if they had solved the mystery. \n\n\"It's the first opportunity I've had in a long time to show people I can give a good performance,\" he said.\n\nIt ran for 23 episodes.\n\nOne of Hutton's memorable television appearances was appearing as a guest star in the 1977-1978 third-season premiere of the Norman Lear sitcom \"One Day At A Time\". The episode, titled \"The Older Man\", was a four-part story arc in which Hutton portrayed Dr. Paul Curran, a forty-two year old veterinarian who falls in love with seventeen-year old Julie Cooper (played by Mackenzie Phillips). \n\nHutton's final performances included roles in \"Flying High\", \"$weepstake$\", and \"The Wonderful World of Disney\" (\"The Sky Trap\").\n\nHis last television role was in an unsold pilot called \"Butterflies\", based on the BBC2 sitcom of the same name. It was broadcast on NBC in August 1979 about two months after Hutton had died.\n\nHutton was married to Maryline Adams (née Poole), who was a teacher. They divorced in 1963. They had two children: a daughter, Heidi (born 1959), and a son, Timothy (born 1960). Timothy also became an actor and appeared with his father in a summer stock production of \"Harvey\". In 1970, he married Lynni Solomon, and they had daughter Punch Hutton (former deputy fashion editor of \"Vanity Fair\"). Hutton also had an intermittent 15-year relationship with actress and model Yvette Vickers.\n\nOn June 2, 1979, Hutton died of liver cancer, just two days after his 45th birthday. He died four weeks and one day after being diagnosed.\n\nTwo years later, Hutton's son Timothy dedicated his 1981 Academy Award, which he had won for his role for the film \"Ordinary People\", to his father.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1906295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906295", "title": "United Apostolic Church", "text": "United Apostolic Church\n\nThe member churches of the United Apostolic Church are independent communities in the tradition of the catholic apostolic revival movement which started at the beginning of the 19th century in England and Scotland.\n\nThe goal of their faith is the reconciliation of mankind with God and the union with Jesus Christ at his return. They want to spread and promote the Christian faith on the basis of the Holy Scripture.\n\nIn 1956 eight apostles who have been excommunicated from the New Apostolic Church on various occasions gathered in Düsseldorf, Germany and founded the \"Association of Apostles of the Apostolic Churches\" which later became synonym with the \"United Apostolic Church\". Five more apostles from the German Democratic Republic (GDR) and overseas joined the union also in 1956. In fact this association has no own juridical structure and is only an association of the church leaders and not of the churches themselves.\n\nCurrently the apostles of nine churches are members of the association:\n\n\nSince 1994 the Apostolische Gemeinschaft in Germany incorporates also the Reformiert-Apostolischer Gemeindebund of the former German Democratic Republic.\n\nThe United Apostolic Churches are currently led by eleven apostles:\n\n\nFrom 1 June 2007 on Ap. Schaeffer from France is also spiritually responsible for the German congregations in the Saarland, however they still belong to the German organisation. Small congregations in São Paulo, Brazil; Los Angeles, USA and Buenos Aires, Argentina do not exist any more. The Philippine congregations were founded and are administered by the Australian apostles. In London, Great Britain a new congregation of immigrated South Africans has been founded recently. After the sudden death of Apostle Vanathaian of India in 2005 these congregations were closed and the members were asked to join other Christian denominations. From 2010 on the Australian church took over the administrative structure and the remaining people and restarted the mission work. From Australia on also mission work is done on the Philippines, in Pakistan, Kenya, Myanmar and Canada.\n\nThe European member churches are very close in theological and organizational matters. There are more or less loose contacts as well as theological differences to the churches in Australia and South Africa.\n\nThe history of the denomination starts with a revival movement at the beginning of the 19th century. London banker and member of parliament Henry Drummond. In 1826 he invited about 30 clergymen and laymen for a prophetic conference at Albury Park, to discuss interpretations of prophecies concerning the apocalypse, with prayer and Bible study. This group also contacted Christians in Scotland, where it was reported that people had experienced prophecy, speaking in tongues and miraculous healing. The focus of these revelations was the imminent return of Jesus Christ.\n\nWhen some members of this Albury circle were excommunicated from their churches, they gathered in new congregations which were later called the Catholic Apostolic Church. They believed in the imminence of the Second Coming of Christ, in preparation for which they resolved to re-establish the early-Church offices of apostles, prophets, etc. Besides enthusiasm, the new congregations looked for order, too. Through the prophecy of members, apostles were called forth and, after further callings, some men were sent to various ministries. The first \"apostle\" (J. B. Cardale) was called in 1832. He became the principal liturgist and \"Pillar of Apostles\". In 1833 Henry Drummond became the second \"apostles\", and was later assigned responsibility for Scotland and Switzerland. Within two years the church's prophets called forth 12 apostles, equivalent to the original 12 apostles of the New Testament. The full college of 12 held their first council in 1835. During 1837 and 1838, they undertook missionary journeys to mainland Europe, Canada, and the United States.\n\nThe new apostles set up a liturgy for their congregations. Their first aim was not the foundation of new congregations but to fight for the unity of all denominations which form the one and only church. Because of excommunications from the established churches, however, new congregations were founded in several countries. In 1836 the apostles wrote a manifest, called the Testimonium, to all church and state leaders of the Christian countries.\n\nFrom 1855 onwards the first apostles died and it was decided that no further apostles should be called and ordained. This decision was controversial and the German prophet Geyer called a new apostle in 1863. This was not recognized by the leaders of the Catholic-Apostolic Church and led to the excommunication of Geyer and the congregation of Hamburg, Germany. Now, new churches developed in the Netherlands which were called the Hersteld Apostolische Zendingkerk and Allgemeine christlich-apostolische Mission in Germany, from whom the New Apostolic Church evolved since 1907. The latter formed a central ruling ministry in form of the Chief Apostle. Parallel to the progress of the new apostolic denomination there occurred splittings throughout\nthe world on several occasions.\n\nThe reasons for these splittings were different but mainly related with the central ministry of the Chief Apostle and its claim for supremacy. The ministry of a Chief Apostle cannot be proved by the Bible as well as no other church leader can derive his absolute power from the special position of Peter among the disciples.\n\nThe new apostolic Chief Apostle Niehaus was led more and more by emotions, dreams and visions after 1914. The Saxon Apostle Brueckner became the solicitor for all those who criticized the spiritual views of the Chief Apostle and the worshipping of his person. The different opinions led to the exclusion of Apostle Brueckner and some thousand believers in 1921. The excluded founded the Reformiert-Apostolischen Gemeindebund soon.\n\nThe main reason for the great divisions of the New Apostolic Church (NAC) in Switzerland 1954 and West-Germany 1955 was the new teaching in 1951 of the then-reigning Chief Apostle J.G. Bischoff. This teaching presumed that he would not die before Jesus Christ returns and takes the predestined into His kingdom (First Resurrection). In 1954 this teaching became an official dogma. Those ministers, especially the apostles, who did not preach this message lost their offices and were excluded from the New Apostolic Church. In these times about 20.000 members left the church only in Germany; some were expressively excluded, while others left voluntarily. This was about 5-10% of the total NAC membership at this time. Not all of these people joined the UAC churches but lost faith completely or went to other churches. Chief Apostle Bischoff died in 1960, his prophecy unfulfilled. There has been no rehabilitation of the excommunicated ministers to this day, although there were first steps of reconciliation in Switzerland in 2005.\n\nIn the 1950s and early 1960s the teaching and the belief was mainly that of the New Apostolic Church. Starting in the 1970s the member churches of the United Apostolic Church made important new orientations and reforms in structural and in theological questions, respectively concerning the question of church, sacraments and ministries. They tried returning to the roots of the Catholic-Apostolic Church.\n\nThe first sort of catechism of 1956 was completely revised and in 1984 and 1991 a new catechism \"Book of Faith\" was edited in 2 editions. The parts concerning the sacraments have been updated in July 2005. Also the creed has been changed then again. From 1956 to 1984 a modified new-apostolic creed with 9 articles has been in use. Then it was shortened to six articles and actually the ecumenical version of the Apostles' Creed is in use, without any specific denominational amendments.\n\nThe members of the United Apostolic Church (UAC) consider themselves as a part of the One Holy Catholic and Apostolic Church. Membership is acquired with baptism and on the Holy Sealing. Baptism of other churches is fully recognized as well as the apostolic baptism is normally recognized as it has been procured in the name of trinity. The European members of the church are highly involved in ecumenical cooperation and try to join ecumenical organisations and institutions locally and regionally.\n\nThe word \"apostolic\" refers to the sending from Jesus Christ, as the word \"apostle\" comes from the Greek apóstolos, which means \"one sent with a message.\" As one should not understand the word \"Catholic\" (universal) only in a denominational sense, so it is with the word \"apostolic\" (sent). Jesus Christ sent his disciples into the world to preach his gospel. \"Apostolic\" does not mean separation from other denominations, but correlation with the teaching of the apostles (see gospel, Acts of the Apostles).\n\nThe United Apostolic Church recognizes the ministry of apostle as highest authority of responsibility and teaching. It is not considered as necessary for salvation. This unusual title in free churches does not intend any thinking of exclusivity but only describes a service ordained by Christ. It is not understood as only existing in the own church but potentially everywhere in the church of Christ even if this specific title is not used. All other ministries are supposed to be ordained by Christ directly and do not depend on the apostle's office. The general priesthood of all believers is becoming more and more popular. Besides the apostles there are bishops, elders, pastors, evangelists, priests and deacons. In 2003 the European apostles decided on female ordination and in 2004 the first three female deacons were ordained in Germany. Actually there are ten female deacons working in Germany. The one in the Netherlands has been ordained as first female priest within die UAC on July, 29th by apostle Den Haan. On March 1, 2009 the first German female priest was ordained in Bocholt by apostle Groß. On August, 30th apostle Den Haan ordained the priest Ineke Ras as herder and leader of den Enkhuizen congregation in the Netherlands and meanwhile there are also two female priests working in Germany.\n\nThe United Apostolic Church knows and celebrates three sacraments: baptism, sealing and communion. These three are considered as different images of the one godly salvation.\n\nBaptism is the rite of initiation and the participation in the church of Christ. It is considered as rebirth with water and spirit. It is conducted with floating water and children can be baptized on the faith of their parents.\n\nCommunion is celebrated in a commemorative sense and as salvation from sin and reconciliation with God.\n\nSealing is the celebration of the Holy Spirit which came into the world on Pentecost. Through this spirit man is able to recognize Christ as his saviour and to grow in faith. It is not conducted on children before their confirmation at the age of 14 anymore. And - as a novelty among apostolic churches - it is not necessarily bound to the office of the apostle.\n\nA monthly magazine, called The Herald is published since 1954, first of the Swiss Vereinigung Apostolischer Christen, nowadays the editorial is with the Apostolische Gemeinschaft in Düsseldorf, Germany. There has been an online version available. From January 2010 on the \"Herald\" is not published any more and a new, coloured, bigger magazine called \"Blickpunkt\" is edited every two months.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1906297", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906297", "title": "John Eakins", "text": "John Eakins\n\nJohn F. Eakins (December 8, 1922 - September 16, 1998) was a politician in Ontario, Canada. He was a Liberal member of the Legislative Assembly of Ontario from 1975 to 1990 who represented the riding of Victoria—Haliburton. He served as a cabinet minister in the government of David Peterson.\n\nEakins was born in Mariposa Township in Victoria County, Ontario and educated in Lindsay, Ontario. Eakins was a barber and hairdresser. Eakin was predeceased by his wife, Iris, who died in the mid-1980s and they had three children.\n\nHe served as a councillor in Lindsay for three years, and as mayor for six. As Mayor, he led the twinning of the Town of Lindsay with Nayoro, Hokkaido, Japan, in 1969. Eakins was also a governor of Fleming College, and a member of the Royal Canadian Legion. He also served as Warden of Victoria County, Ontario.\n\nHe first sought election to the Ontario legislature in the 1967 provincial election, but lost to Progressive Conservative Glen Hodgson by 2,016 votes in Victoria—Haliburton. He ran again in the 1971 election, and lost to Hodgson by 2,119 votes.\n\nThe Ontario Liberal Party increased its legislative representation in the 1975 provincial election, and Eakins defeated Hodgson by 1,023 votes in his third attempt. He was re-elected by greater margins in the elections of 1977, 1981, 1985 and 1987.\n\nAfter serving in opposition for forty-two years, the Liberal Party formed a minority government after the 1985 election. David Peterson, the province's new Premier, appointed Eakins as his Minister of Tourism and Recreation on June 26, 1985. He held this position until September 29, 1987, when he was appointed as Minister of Municipal Affairs. He left cabinet on August 2, 1989.\n\nEakins did not run in the 1990 election.\n\nAfter leaving provincial office, he remained active in the Rotary Club of Lindsay and numerous other community activities. Eakins was the driving force behind the creation of the Lindsay and District Sports Hall of Fame, developed to honour athletes, coaches and supporters of sporting activities in the County.\n\nEakins died in 1998, after undergoing cancer treatments in Hamilton, Ontario.\n"}
{"id": "1906298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906298", "title": "DFDS", "text": "DFDS\n\nDFDS is a Danish international shipping and logistics company. It is the busiest shipping company of its kind in Northern Europe and one of the busiest in Europe. The company's name is an abbreviation of Det Forenede Dampskibs-Selskab (literally \"The United Steamship Company\"). DFDS was founded in 1866, when C.F. Tietgen merged the three biggest Danish steamship companies of that day.\n\nAlthough DFDS has generally concentrated on freight and passenger traffic on the North Sea and to the Baltic Sea, it has also operated freight services to the US, South America and the Mediterranean in the past. Since the eighties, DFDS' focus for shipping has been northern Europe. Today, DFDS operates a network of 25 routes with 50 freight and passenger ships in the North Sea, Baltic Sea and the English Channel under the name DFDS Seaways. The rail and land based haulage and container activities are operated by DFDS Logistics.\n\nThe Beginnings\n\nDet Forenede Dampskibs-Selskab was formed on 11 December 1866 as a merger of the three biggest Danish steamship companies under the leadership of Danish financier Carl Frederik Tietgen. Operations began on 1 January 1867 with 19 ships with Copenhagen as the main starting point. The company's routes at the time were from Denmark to Norway, the Baltic, Belgium, the United Kingdom, Iceland and The Faeroe Islands, with ships carrying both freight and passengers. As the company grew, new connections were opened to Sweden, France, the Mediterranean and Black Sea, as well as North America and South America. In addition, DFDS operated various domestic services in Denmark. After continued expansion of the fleet in the 1880s, DFDS became one of the world's ten largest ship-owning companies. After the takeover of Dampskibsselskabet Thingvalla in 1898, the Scandinavian-American Line was established. The Scandinavian-American Line continued trading to the United States until 1935.\n\nThe Two World Wars\n\nThe First World War took a heavy toll on DFDS' fleet, with 26 ships lost. During the post-war depression, a further 30 ships were laid up. The company revived with the establishment of new routes, and by the mid-1920s, DFDS's fleet consisted of 124 ships with a combined tonnage of . The Second World War saw further losses to the company, with nine ships lost before the German invasion of Denmark in April 1940. A large number of DFDS ships fell into British hands after the German invasion, and they were used as troopships. German forces commandeered a total of 21 DFDS ships during the war. One DFDS ship, the \"Kronprins Frederik\", was under construction when the war began. To prevent her usage by the Germans, vital engine parts were \"lost\", only to be discovered after the end of the war. In total, DFDS lost 31 ships during World War II, with a further three ships lost due to hitting mines after the end of the war. In 1948, 48 people drowned when KJØBENHAVN hit a mine. Five people lost their lives in the mine explosion of IVAR in 1949 and, as recently as 1950, FRIGGA sank, without loss of life, after having hit a mine. To replace some of the lost ships, a number of almost-completed motor ships, which had been laid up awaiting the end of the war, were made ready. Gradually, the routes that had been discontinued since the beginning of the war, were reopened.\n\nBetween the Wars\n\nDFDS created a sensation when they launched the World's first motor-driven short-sea passenger ship in 1925, from the Elsinore Shipbuilding & Engineering Co. The first of four sister vessels built between 1925 and 1932, the m.v.\"Parkeston\" ( ) made her maiden voyage from Esbjerg to Harwich on 8 October 1925 at an average speed of 16.5 knots, burning 18 tons of oil per day compared with 55 tons of coal burnt by a similar predecessor on the route.\n\nThe Fifties & Sixties\n\nIn 1950, DFDS was one of the first to introduce a door-to-door solution. Two ships were specially designed to transport small wooden containers. DFDS commenced a new service, linking Danish mainland to Greenland. This was discontinued in 1959. In 1957, Nordana Line - cargo service Gulf of Mexico-Mediterranean - began. For the first time in DFDS's history, the company played the role of cross-trader. 1964 saw the introduction of the first ro-ro passenger ferry, when M.S. England entered service on a route connecting Esbjerg to Harwich. In 1965, the Transport Rationalization Department, which later became DFDS Transport, began its activities. M.S. AKERSHUS, the first real passenger-and-car ship which could also take trucks and trailers, was entered into service on the Frederikshavn-Oslo route.\n\nIn 1966, a hundred years after its start, the DFDS fleet consisted of 13 passenger ships, 53 cargo vessels, 4 tugboats and 39 barges. A comprehensive new ship programme commenced, with 25 ships on order. The passenger ships served on routes connecting Denmark to Norway, the UK, Faroe Islands, Iceland and Finland (though the Finland service was discontinued in 1966) alongside domestic services. The freight services continued, linking Denmark to the Americas and various European and Mediterranean ports. BOTNIA, the last steamship, was sold after more than 50 years of service. DFDS was no longer a steamship company. Between 1967 and 1970, four identical car-passenger ferries, originally named m.s. Kong Olav V, m.s. Prinsesse Margarethe, m.s. Aalborghus and m.s. Trekroner entered service on the Copenhagen—Oslo and Copenhagen—Aalborg routes. However, the Copenhagen—Aalborg service was closed that same year, in 1970.\n\nThe Seventies & Eighties\n\nSubsequently, the \"Aalborghus\" and \"Trekroner\" were rebuilt and renamed Dana Sirena and Dana Corona, respectively, for ferry services on the Mediterranean. Confusingly, the ships' names were later reversed, with \"Dana Sirena\" becoming \"Dana Corona\" and vice versa. For the Denmark—UK service, new ships arrived in 1974 and 1978 in the form of and , respectively. Domestic passenger traffic was discontinued in 1970 and domestic freight service in 1971. A great chapter in the history of DFDS had come to an end. The requirement for transport of cars was sharply on the rise at the beginning of the 1970s. Tonnage was designed to accommodate this, and all DFDS passenger routes were served by passenger ships with roll on/roll off facilities.\n\nThe 1980s saw period of growth for DFDS, with the acquisition of Tor Line and Prinzenlinien. In addition to the ferries Tor Britannia, Tor Scandinavia and MS Prinz Hamlet that were acquired with these two deals, DFDS also purchased the Effoa ferry \"Wellamo\" in 1981, renaming her Dana Gloria. Following this brief expansion, in 1982, the Mediterranean ferry services were discontinued and in 1984 DFDS gave up its deep-sea cargo routes completely, now concentrating solely on the European market. 1982 also saw the beginning of an ambitious project of operating a large ferry/cruise ship, MS \"Scandinavia\", on the US East Coast under the brand of Scandinavian World Cruises. However, in 1983, the \"Scandinavia\" was moved to the Copenhagen—Oslo service and sold two years later.\n\nFrom 1982 to 1983, DFDS's passenger operations were branded as DFDS Danish Seaways (Esbjerg—Harwich/Newcastle upon Tyne/Tórshavn, Copenhagen—Oslo, Newcastle upon Tyne—Oslo), DFDS Tor Line (Gothenburg—Harwich/Newcastle upon Tyne/Amsterdam) and DFDS Prins Ferries (Harwich—Hamburg/Bremerhaven). DFDS also operated the Fred. Olsen Bergen Line routes Newcastle upon Tyne—Stavanger/Bergen and Stavanger—Amsterdam.. In 1987, the Transport Division and the Liner Division merged into DFDS Transport. The new division soon expanded, first in Sweden and subsequently acquired several forwarding companies, e.g. in the UK and the Netherlands. In 1988, it was decided to use Scandinavian Seaways for the DFDS passenger operations as a whole.\n\nThe Nineties\n\nIn 1989-1990, the tonnage on the Oslo—Copenhagen route was renewed with the entering into service in June 1990 of \"Queen Of Scandinavia\", a ship with a capacity of 2,000 passengers and 400 cars. Queen was followed, in 1994, by \"Crown Of Scandinavia\", with a similar capacity. In 1999, DFDS took over Dan Transport Holding, including the Dan Transport Travel Bureau and Canal Tours Copenhagen. However, 17 months later, the whole transport division, named DFDS Dan Transport Group, was sold to transport group DSV, and the focus was once again on the former core business activities: ro-ro liner traffic and passenger shipping on overnight routes.\n\nAs of 2000\n\nIn June 2001, the deal to acquire a 76.4 per cent shareholding in the Lithuanian shipping company LISCO was finalised. Lys-Line Rederi AS and Lys-Line AS were taken over 100 per cent by DFDS in 2005.\nIn August 2005 DFDS purchased 66 per cent of the trailer-forwarding company Halléns in Belgium. In 2006, DFDS acquired the container shipping company Norfolk Line Containers. In 2010, DFDS purchased Norfolkline from Maersk. In 2010, DFDS sold DFDS Canal Tours because it was not regarded as a core activity.\n\nDFDS Seaways is the shipping division of DFDS A/S operating a network of 25 shipping routes with 50 freight and passenger ships on the North Sea, Baltic Sea and the English Channel. DFDS Logistics operates land transport and logistics activities including the former DFDS Lys Line and DFDS Container Line. Below is an overview of the shipping activities that are integrated in the DFDS Group.\n\nDFDS Tor Line\n\nDFDS Tor Line was the main freight-carrying division of DFDS. It operated a large number of RO-RO freighters on the North Sea as well as the Baltic Sea. It was formed as merger of DFDS' and Tor Line's freight operations after DFDS bought the latter in 1982 (until 1988 the passenger service between Sweden and the United Kingdom was also marketed as DFDS Tor Line). The operation of DFDS Tor Line were integrated into DFDS following the acquisition of Norfolkline in 2010.\n\nDFDS Lisco\nDFDS Lisco was a Lithuanian subsidiary acquired by DFDS in 2001. It operated five lines with seven ferries for passengers and freight connecting Germany to Lithuania, Latvia and Russia as well as Germany to Sweden. DFDS Lisco had subsidiaries in Germany (DFDS Lisco GmbH), Sweden (DFDS Tor Line AB), Latvia (DFDS Tor Line SIA) and Russia (OOO DFDS Lisco). The operation of DFDS Lisco were integrated into DFDS Seaways following the acquisition of Norfolkline in 2010.\n\nDFDS Lys Line\nDFDS Lys Line transported freight from Norway, Sweden and Denmark to Germany, the Netherlands, Belgium, the United Kingdom, Ireland, Spain, Portugal and Italy, offering door-to-door transportation. The company was founded in 1970. The operation of DFDS Lys Line were integrated into DFDS following the acquisition of Norfolkline in 2010.\n\nDFDS Container Line\nDFDS Container Line transports containers between Ireland and the Netherlands. On October 2, 2006 the acquisition of Norfolkline Containers by DFDS A/S was completed. Established in August 1997 Norfolkline Containers was set up to offer Direct Port-to-Port services between Ireland and mainland Europe. The operation of DFDS Container Line were integrated into DFDS following the acquisition of Norfolkline in 2010. As of now all of the things from 2010 were made by Raj Patel of Hanover Park\n\nNorfolkline\nNorfolkline was a European ferry operator and logistics company owned by Maersk. It provided freight ferry services on the English channel, Irish Sea, and the North Sea; and passenger ferry services on the English channel and Irish Sea; and logistics services across Europe. Norfolkline employed more than 2,200 employees in 13 countries across Europe, operating out of 35 different locations. It was acquired by DFDS in July 2010. Maersk received a 31.3 percent stake in DFDS as part payment. After a two-year lock-up period of the shares they were sold in September 2013.\n\nU.N. Ro-Ro U.N. Ro-Ro operates five freight ferry routes connecting Turkey with Trieste in Italy and Toulon in France with 12 freight ferries and its own port terminals in Istanbul and Trieste. In Europe, the company also offers intermodal solutions to and from other European markets. The company has an annual revenue of EUR 240 million and 500 employees. In April 2018, European shipping and logistics group DFDS signed an agreement with the owners of the Turkish shipping company U.N. Ro-Ro to acquire the shares in the company.\n\n"}
{"id": "1906305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906305", "title": "Mimosa pudica", "text": "Mimosa pudica\n\nMimosa pudica (from \"shy, bashful or shrinking\"; also called sensitive plant, sleepy plant, action plant, Dormilones, touch-me-not, shameplant, zombie plant, or shy plant) is a creeping annual or perennial flowering plant of the pea/legume family Fabaceae and Magnoliopsida taxon, often grown for its curiosity value: the compound leaves fold inward and droop when touched or shaken, defending themselves from harm, and re-open a few minutes later. In the UK it has gained the Royal Horticultural Society's Award of Garden Merit.\n\nThe species is native to South and Central America, but is now a pantropical weed, and can be found in Southern United States, South Asia, East Asia and South Africa as well. It is not shade tolerant, and is primarily found on soils with low nutrient concentrations \"Mimosa pudica\" is well known for its rapid plant movement.\nLike a number of other plant species, it undergoes changes in leaf orientation termed \"sleep\" or nyctinastic movement. The foliage closes during darkness and reopens in light. This was first studied by the French scientist Jean-Jacques d'Ortous de Mairan. Due to \"Mimosa's\" unique response to touch, it became an ideal plant for many experiments regarding plant habituation and memory.\n\n\"Mimosa pudica\" was first formally described by Carl Linnaeus in \"Species Plantarum\" in 1753. The species epithet, \"pudica\", is Latin for \"bashful\" or \"shrinking\", alluding to its shrinking reaction to contact.\n\nThe species is known by numerous common names including sensitive plant, humble plant, shameplant, and touch-me-not.\n\nThe stem is erect in young plants, but becomes creeping or trailing with age. It can hang very low and become floppy. The stem is slender, branching, and sparsely to densely prickly, growing to a length of .\n\nThe leaves are bipinnately compound, with one or two pinnae pairs, and 10–26 leaflets per pinna. The petioles are also prickly. Pedunculate (stalked) pale pink or purple flower heads arise from the leaf axils in mid summer with more and more flowers as the plant gets older. The globose to ovoid heads are in diameter (excluding the stamens). On close examination, it is seen that the floret petals are red in their upper part and the filaments are pink to lavender. Pollens are circular with approximately 8 microns diameter.\n\nThe roots of \"Mimosa pudica\" create carbon disulfide, which prevents certain pathogenic and mycorrhizal fungi from growing within the plant's rhizosphere. This allows the formation of nodules on the roots of the plant that contain endosymbiotic diazotrophs, which fix atmospheric nitrogen and convert it into a form that is usable by the plant.\n\n\"Mimosa pudica\" is a tetraploid (2\"n\" = 52).\n\nThe leaflets also close when stimulated in other ways, such as touching, warming, blowing, shaking, which are all encapsulated within mechanical or electrical stimulation. These types of movements have been termed seismonastic movements. This reflex may have evolved as a defense mechanism to disincentivize predators, or alternatively to shade the plant in order to reduce water lossage due to evaporation. The main structure mechanistically responsible for the drooping of the leaves is the pulvinus. The stimulus is transmitted as an action potential from a stimulated leaflet, to the leaflet's swollen base (pulvinus), and from there to the pulvini of the other leaflets, which run along the length of the leaf's rachis. The action potential then passes into the petiole, and finally to the large pulvinus at the end of the petiole, where the leaf attaches to the stem. The pulvini cells gain and lose turgor due to water moving in and out of these cells, and multiple ion concentrations play a role in the manipulation of water movement.\n\nIons cannot easily move in and out of cells, so protein channels such as voltage-gated potassium channels and calcium-permeable anion channels are responsible for allowing potassium and calcium, respectively, to flow through the cell membrane, making cells permeable to these ions. The action potential causes potassium ions to flow out from the vacuoles of cells in the various pulvini. Differences in turgidity in different regions of the leaf and stem results in the closing of the leaflets and the collapse of the leaf petiole. Other important proteins include H+-ATPases, aquaporins, and actin, which all aid in the redistribution of ions in the pulvini, especially during a seismonastic response. H+-ATPases and aquaporins aid in the direct movement of water molecules, while actin's role has a more biochemical explanation. Actin is composed of many phosphorylated tyrosine (an amino acid) molecules, and manipulation of how phosphorylated the tyrosine molecules are directly correlates to how much the M. pudica leaves droop.\n\nThis movement of folding inwards is energetically costly for the plant and also interferes with the process of photosynthesis. This characteristic is quite common within the Mimosoideae subfamily of the legume family, Fabaceae. The stimulus can also be transmitted to neighboring leaves. It is not known exactly why \"Mimosa pudica\" evolved this trait, but many scientists think that the plant uses its ability to shrink as a defense from herbivores. Animals may be afraid of a fast moving plant and would rather eat a less active one. Another possible explanation is that the sudden movement dislodges harmful insects.\n\nThe movement of calcium, potassium, and chloride ions in pulvini cells has been analyzed to better understand how ion and water flux affect \"M. pudica\" leaves drooping. A batch of \"M. pudica\" were grown and watered daily, and 10-20 pulvini were collected from each group of pulvini reactive to touch, and pulvini unreactive to touch. To further understand the movement of the ions, the upper and lower halves of all collected pulvini underwent separate ion analysis using the x-ray fluorescence spectroscopy method. This method tracked the location of the ions by coloring them each with a different color of fluorescence dye. In terms of calcium concentrations, there was a significant difference in concentration between both halves of the pulvini, in both the reactive and nonreactive pulvini. For potassium, higher concentrations were found throughout the reactive pulvini, while a high concentration difference in the top and bottom halves of the unreactive pulvini was found.\n\nUpon stimulation to the reactive pulvini, an average of a 240% increase in potassium was found in the pulvini cells. Analysis of chloride ions gave similar results where high concentrations were found throughout the reactive pulvini, except in the unreactive pulvini the difference in concentration in the top and bottom pulvini was not significant. Overall, what was found was that high concentrations of potassium, chloride, and calcium led to a rapid decrease in water in the pulvini, which results in the drooping of the \"M. pudica\" leaves. Mitigation of this gradient resulted in less reaction and movement of the leaves.\n\n\"Mimosa pudica\" is native to South America, North America and Central America. It can also be found in Asia in countries such as Singapore, Bangladesh, Thailand, India, Nepal, Indonesia, Malaysia, Philippines, Vietnam, Cambodia, Laos, Japan, Sri Lanka, Mauritius, Guam and well across the southern part of the United States. It has been introduced to many other regions and is regarded as an invasive species in Tanzania, South Asia and South East Asia and many Pacific Islands. It is regarded as invasive in parts of Australia and is a declared weed in the Northern Territory, and Western Australia although not naturalized there. Control is recommended in Queensland.\n\nIt has also been introduced to Uganda, Ghana, Nigeria, Seychelles, Mauritius and East Asia but is not regarded as invasive in those places. In the United States of America, it grows in Louisiana, Florida, Hawaii, Tennessee, Virginia, Maryland, Puerto Rico, Texas, Alabama, Mississippi, North Carolina, Georgia, the territory of Guam, and the Virgin Islands, as well as Cuba and the Dominican Republic.\n\n\"Mimosa pudica\" has several natural predators, such as the spider mite and mimosa webworm. Both of these insects wrap the leaflets in webs that hinder the responsive closing. Webbed leaves are noticeable as they become brown fossilized remnants after an attack. The Mimosa webworm is composed of two generations that arise at different seasons. This makes prevention difficult and requires proper timing of insecticides to avoid aiding other predators. Once the larvae become steel-gray moths they are harmless to the plant, but lay more eggs.\n\nThe species can be a weed for tropical crops, particularly when fields are hand-cultivated. Crops it tends to affect are corn, coconuts, tomatoes, cotton, coffee, bananas, soybeans, papaya, and sugar cane. Dry thickets may become a fire hazard. In some cases it has become a forage plant although the variety in Hawaii is reported to be toxic to livestock.\n\nIn addition, \"Mimosa pudica\" can change the physico-chemical properties of the soil it invades. For example, the total N and K increased in significantly invaded areas.\n\nThirty-six native Thai plant species were tested to see which conducted the most phytoremediation of arsenic polluted soils caused by tin mines. \"Mimosa pudica\" was one of the four species that significantly extracted and bioaccumulated the pollutant into its leaves. Other studies have found that \"Mimosa pudica\" extracts heavy metals such as copper, lead, tin, and zinc from polluted soils. This allows for the soil to gradually return to less toxic compositions.\n\n\"Mimosa pudica\" can form root nodules that are habitable by nitrogen-fixing bacteria. The bacteria are able to convert atmospheric nitrogen, which plants cannot use, into a form that plants can use. This trait is common among plants in the family Fabaceae. Nitrogen is a vital element for both plant growth and reproduction. Nitrogen is also essential for plant photosynthesis because it is a component of chlorophyll. Nitrogen fixation contributes nitrogen to the plant and to the soil surrounding the plant's roots.\n\n\"Mimosa pudica\"'s ability to fix nitrogen may have arisen in conjunction with the evolution of nitrogen-fixing bacteria. Nitrogen fixation is an adaptive trait that has transformed the parasitic relationship between the bacteria and plants into a mutualistic relationship. The shifting dynamics of this relationship are demonstrated by the corresponding improvement of various symbiotic characteristics in both \"Mimosa pudica\" and bacteria. These traits include enhanced \"competitive nodulation, nodule development, intracellular infection, and bacteroid persistence\".\n\nAs much as 60% of the nitrogen found in \"Mimosa pudica\" can be attributed to the fixation of N by bacteria. \"Burkholderia\" \"phymatum\" STM815 and \"Cupriavidus\" \"taiwanensis\" LMG19424 are beta-rhizobial strains of diazotrophs that are highly effective at fixing nitrogen when coupled with \"M. pudica\". \"Burkholderia\" is also shown to be a strong symbiont of \"Mimosa pudica\" in nitrogen-poor soils in regions like Cerrado and Caatinga.\n\nIn cultivation, this plant is most often grown as an indoor annual, but is also grown for groundcover. Propagation is generally by seed. \"Mimosa pudica\" grows most effectively in nutrient poor soil that allows for substantial water drainage. However, this plant is also shown to grow in scalped and eroded subsoils. Typically, disrupted soil is necessary in order for \"M. pudica\" to become established in an area. Additionally, the plant is shade intolerant and frost-sensitive, meaning that it does not tolerate low levels of light or cold temperatures. \"Mimosa pudica\" does not compete for resources with larger foliage or forest canopy undergrowth.\n\nIn temperate zones it must be grown under protection, where the temperature does not fall below .\n\n\"Mimosa pudica\" contains the toxic alkaloid mimosine, which has been found to also have antiproliferative and apoptotic effects. The extracts of \"Mimosa pudica\" immobilize the filariform larvae of \"Strongyloides stercoralis\" in less than one hour. Aqueous extracts of the roots of the plant have shown significant neutralizing effects in the lethality of the venom of the monocled cobra (\"Naja kaouthia\"). It appears to inhibit the myotoxicity and enzyme activity of cobra venom.\n\n\"Mimosa pudica\" demonstrates both antioxidant and antibacterial properties. This plant has also been demonstrated to be non-toxic in brine shrimp lethality tests, which suggests that \"M. pudica\" has low levels of toxicity. Chemical analysis has shown that \"Mimosa pudica\" contains various compounds, including \"alkaloids, flavonoid C-glycosides, sterols, terenoids, tannins, saponin and fatty acids\". The roots of the plant have been shown to contain up to 10% tannin. A substance similar to adrenaline has been found within the plant's leaves. \"Mimosa pudica\"'s seeds produce mucilage made up of -glucuronic acid and -xylose. Additionally, extracts of \"M. pudica\" have been shown to contain crocetin-dimethylester, tubulin, and green-yellow fatty oils. A new class of phytohormone turgorines, which are derivatives of gallic acid 4-\"O\"-(β--glucopyranosyl-6'-sulfate), have been discovered within the plant.\n\nThe nitrogen-fixing properties of \"Mimosa pudica\" contribute to a high nitrogen content within the plant's leaves. The leaves of \"M. pudica\" also contain a wide range of carbon to mineral content, as well as a large variation in C values. The correlation between these two numbers suggests that significant ecological adaptation has occurred among the varieties of \"M. pudica\" in Brazil.\n\nThe roots contain sac-like structures that release organic and organosulfur compounds including SO, methylsulfinic acid, pyruvic acid, lactic acid, ethanesulfinic acid, propane sulfinic acid, 2-mercaptoaniline, S-propyl propane 1-thiosulfinate, and thioformaldehyde, an elusive and highly unstable compound never before reported to be emitted by a plant.\n\nWilhelm Pfeffer, a German botanist during the 17th century, used \"Mimosa\" in one of the first experiments testing plant habituation. Further experimentation was done in 1965, when Holmes and Gruenberg discovered that \"Mimosa\" could distinguish between two stimuli, a water drop and a finger touch. Their findings also demonstrated that the habituated behavior was not due to fatigue since the leaf-folding response returned when another stimulus was presented.\n\nElectrical signaling experiments were conducted on \"Mimosa pudica\", where 1.3–1.5 volts and 2–10 µC of charge acted as the threshold to induce closing of the leaves. This topic was further explored in 2017 by neuroscientist Greg Gage who connected \"Mimosa pudica\" to \"Dionaea muscipula\", better known as the Venus flytrap. Both plants had electrical wiring connecting them and were linked to an electrocardiogram. The results showed how causing an action potential in one plant led to an electrical response, causing both plants to respond.\n\nExperiments were made on how anesthetics for animals could affect \"Mimosa pudica\". These experiments showed that anesthetics cause narcosis of the motor organs, which was observed by the application of volatile ether, chloroform, carbon tetrachloride, hydrogen sulfide, ammonia, formaldehyde, and other substances.\n\nIn 2018, two research groups from the Universities of Palermo (Italy) and Lugano (Switzerland) demonstrated the feasibility of using such plant as a building block for creating plant-based controllable two-color displays, exploiting air jets instead of electrical or touch-based stimulation.\n\nPlants that live in low light environments have less of an opportunity for photosynthesis compared to plants that live in high light environments where sunshine isn't a problem. When the \"Mimosa\" plant folds in its leaves as a defensive mechanism there is an energetic trade off, since folding its leaves reduces the amount of photosynthesis the \"Mimosa\" can perform during the closed period by 40%, but provides a rapid defensive mechanism against potentially harmful predators or external stimulation.\n\nIn an experiment, researcher Monica Gagliano wanted to study if \"Mimosa\" plants in low light conditions would have a greater potential for learning than those grown in high light, since the low light plants were already in low energy environments and folding their leaves would be more energetically costly to the plant. The simplest form of learning is the ability of an organism to have a certain level of sensitivity to the environment that allows the organism to respond to potentially harmful stimuli as well as the capability to learn and filter out irrelevant stimuli (habituation) or increase the response due to a learned stimulus (sensitization).\n\nResearchers predicted the low light plants would have adapted to have faster habitual learning capabilities so they could filter out unharmful stimuli to increase their energy production. Plants were either grown in high light or low light conditions. The plants were stimulated by being dropped from 15 cm for either a single drop, or consecutive training sessions where the plants were repeatedly dropped. To test that the plants were suppressing their leaf folding reflex from habitual learning and not from exhaustion, the plants were shaken as a novel stimuli to see if the plants would fold their leaves (dishabituation test). The first group was tested to see if short term memory was enough for plants to modify their behaviour.\n\nRegardless of what light group the plants were in, one drop was not enough for the plants to learn to ignore the stimulation. For the groups that were dropped repetitively, the plants stopped folding their leaves and were even fully open after a drop before the end of the trainings. The low light plants learned faster to ignore the dropping stimulation than the high light plants. When the plants were shaken, they responded immediately by folding their leaves, which suggests that the plants were not ignoring the dropping stimulation due to exhaustion. This research suggests that the \"Mimosa\" has the capability for habitual learning and memory storage and that \"Mimosa\" plants grown in low light conditions have faster learning mechanisms so they can reduce the amount of time their leaves are unnecessarily closed to optimise energy production.\n\nGiven that plants lack a central nervous system, the means by which they send and store information is not obvious. There are two hypotheses for memory in \"Mimosa,\" neither of which has yet been generally accepted. The first is when the plant is stimulated it releases a surge of calcium ions that are sensed by the protein calmodulin. The relationship between the ions and proteins are thought to stimulate voltage gated ion channels which cause electrical signals, which could be the base of plant long term memory. The other hypothesis is that plant cells act similarly to neural cells by creating electrical gradients by opening and closing ion channels and passing it along cell junctions. The information passed along can control which genes are turned on and which genes are turned off, which could be a mode for long term memory.\n\n"}
{"id": "1906310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906310", "title": "Marcos Milinkovic", "text": "Marcos Milinkovic\n\nMarcos Antonio Milinkovic (born December 22, 1971 in Villa Ballester, Buenos Aires) is an Argentine volleyball player. Milinković is 203 cm and weighs 100 kg.\n\nMilinkovic started playing the sport at age 17, a relatively late age. Milinkovic is of Croat descent.\nMilinkovic speaks Spanish, Portuguese and Italian.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1906312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906312", "title": "Boglestone", "text": "Boglestone\n\nBoglestone (named after the Bogal Stone) is located around the top of the Clune Brae, Port Glasgow, Inverclyde, Scotland. The area includes housing, but also serves as an important 'hub' for upper Port Glasgow, offering amenities such as education, shopping, health centres, and leisure.\n\nThe two schools previously situated here were Boglestone Primary a non-denominational school, and St Michael's a Roman Catholic primary School. Due to the local council's education plans, Boglestone Primary was demolished, with pupils temporarily transferred to other schools, including Highholm Primary, located near Port Glasgow town centre. Newark Primary School (opened 2008) now stands on the site.\n\nShops include a Co-op supermarket, newsagents, and bakers, as well as Ladbrokes bookmakers. A health centre, and a community centre that includes a gym, are also situated here. Boglestone shops provide a shopping centre for Boglestone, the only area of upper Port Glasgow to have close access to such a wide variety of retailers.\n\n"}
{"id": "1906316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906316", "title": "Leo Slezak", "text": "Leo Slezak\n\nLeo Slezak (; 18 August 1873 – 1 June 1946) was a world-famous Moravian tenor. He was associated in particular with Austrian opera as well as the title role in Verdi's \"Otello\". He is the father of actors Walter Slezak and Margarete Slezak and grandfather of the actress Erika Slezak.\n\nBorn in Šumperk (Mährisch-Schönberg), the son of a miller, Slezak worked briefly as a blacksmith, an engineer's fitter and served in the army before taking singing lessons with the first-class baritone and pedagogue Adolf Robinson. He made his debut in 1896 in Brno (Brünn) and proceeded to sing leading roles in Bohemia and Germany, appearing at Breslau and, in 1898-99, at Berlin. From 1901 onwards he was a permanent member of the Vienna State Opera's roster of artists, achieving star status. While in Vienna he was initiated into Freemasonry.\n\nSlezak's international career commenced in London at the Royal Opera House, Covent Garden, where he sang Siegfried (a punishing role that he would soon drop from his repertoire) and Lohengrin in 1900. (He would return to Covent Garden in 1909 after undertaking further vocal studies in Paris the previous year with a great tenor of a previous era, Jean de Reszke.)\n\nSlezak secured a three-year contract with the New York Metropolitan Opera in 1909. Met audiences acclaimed him in performances of works by Wagner and Verdi. Along with Italy's Giovanni Zenatello, he became the most famous Otello of his generation, famously performing the role at the Met with Arturo Toscanini conducting.\n\nHe was a convivial person, and many anecdotes reveal his amiable sense of humour. The best-known example is as follows: during a performance of Wagner's \"Lohengrin\", a stage hand sent the swan out too early, before the tenor could hop aboard. Seeing his feathered transportation disappear into the wings, Slezak ad-libbed to the audience: \"Wann fährt der nächste Schwan?\" (\"When does the next swan leave?\").\n\nSlezak had a versatile repertory which embraced 66 roles. They included notably Rossini's Guillaume Tell, Manrico, Radames, Walter, Tannhäuser, Hermann and, as we have seen, Otello and Lohengrin. He sang 44 roles in Vienna alone, where he chalked up 936 appearances in 1901-12 and 1917–27 and became an idol of audiences.\n\nA tall barrel-chested man, Slezak possessed a large and attractive lyric-dramatic voice which enabled him to undertake all but the very heaviest Wagnerian parts such as Siegfried or Tristan. He had a distinctive tonal quality, too, which became markedly darker after his studies with de Reszke in 1908. Slezak was a master of \"mezza-voce\" singing and he could also deliver haunting head notes. Unfortunately, with time and hard use, his top register developed a strained and unsteady quality when used at full volume, as can be heard on some of his recordings.\n\nHe made hundreds of disc and cylinder recordings, beginning in the early 1900s and ending in the 1930s. They were produced by several different record companies and include arias, duets and songs by a wide selection of composers, ranging from Mozart to Wagner. Most of his best records have been released on CD compilations. Some of his film work as an actor survives, too.\n\nSlezak's autobiography, published in 1938 in English as \"Song of Motley: Being the Reminiscences of a Hungry Tenor\", contains pen-portraits of many of the musicians and artists with whom he worked, including Gustav Mahler, Arturo Toscanini and Cosima Wagner. It describes his tours of America, Russia and the Balkans and recalls his doomed audition for Frau Wagner at Bayreuth, when he foolishly chose to sing music from \"Pagliacci\".\n\nLater in life, he published several very humorous, semi-autobiographical books, notably:\n\nIn 1932, Slezak began appearing in German cinema. As an actor/comedian, he played humorous characters, but mostly he sang. His movies included \"La Paloma\" (1934) and \"Gasparone\" (1937). Slezak's final film role was as a portly sultan in the 1943 UFA prestige production \"Münchhausen\". His son, Walter Slezak, who started off in musical theater, became a successful character actor in Hollywood during the 1940s. His granddaughter (Walter's daughter) is the actress Erika Slezak, noted for her role on the soap opera \"One Life to Live\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1906320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906320", "title": "Red drum", "text": "Red drum\n\nThe red drum (\"Sciaenops ocellatus\"), also known as redfish, channel bass, puppy drum, spottail bass, or simply red, is a game fish found in the Atlantic Ocean from Massachusetts to Florida and in the Gulf of Mexico from Florida to northern Mexico. It is the only species in the genus Sciaenops.\n\nThe red drum is related to the black drum (\"Pogonias cromis\"), and the two species are often found near to each other; they can interbreed and form a robust hybrid, and younger fish are often indistinguishable in flavor.\n\nRed drum are a dark red color on the back, which fades into white on the belly. The red drum has a characteristic eyespot near the tail and is somewhat streamlined. Three-year-old red drum typically weigh 6-8 lb. The largest red drum on record weighed just over 94 lb and was caught in 1984 on Hatteras Island. Male red drum make a knocking or drumming sound during spawning by vibrating their swim bladders.\n\nThe most distinguishing mark on the red drum is one large black spot on the upper part of the tail base. Having multiple spots is not uncommon for this fish, but having no spots is extremely rare. As the fish with multiple spots grow older, they seem to lose their excess spots. Scientists believe that the black spot near their tail helps fool predators into attacking the red drum's tail instead of its head, allowing the red drum to escape. The red drum uses its senses of sight and touch, and its downturned mouth, to locate forage on the bottom through vacuuming or biting. On the top and middle of the water column, it uses changes in the light that might look like food. In the summer and fall, adult red drum feed on crabs, shrimp, and mullet; in the spring and winter, adults primarily feed on menhaden, mullet, pinfish, sea robin, lizardfish, spot, Atlantic croaker, and mudminnows.\n\nRed drum naturally occur along the eastern and southern Atlantic and Gulf of Mexico coasts of Louisiana, Texas, Alabama, Mississippi, Florida, Georgia, the Carolinas, and Virginia. They are a highly prized game fish in the Gulf of Mexico. Aquaculture activities involving them occur around the world. Immature red drum prefer grass marsh areas of bays and estuaries when available. Both younger mature red drum (3-6 years of age) and bull red drum prefer rocky outcroppings including jetties and manmade structures, such as oil rigs and bridge posts. Around this type of structure, they are found throughout the water column.\n\nMature red drum spawn in near shorelines from mid-August to mid-October. The red drum's eggs incubate for 24 hours. A female lays about 1.5 million (with a range of 200,000 up to more than three million) eggs per batch. Scharf (2000) reported that in the first year, young red drum in Texas estuaries grew about 0.6 mm per day, though the rates varied with location and year and were higher in more southerly estuaries. After the first year, they may be 271 – 383 mm long. About half of red drum are able to reproduce by age 4 years, when they are 660-700 mm long and 3.4 – 4 kg in weight. Red drum can live to be 60 years old.\n\nAs red drum grow longer, they increase in weight exponentially. The relationship between length (L) and weight (W) for nearly all species of fish can be expressed by an equation of the form:\n\nInvariably, b is close to 3.0 for all species, and a varies between species. Jenkins (2004) reported slightly different weight-length relationships for red drum caught in the spring and the fall off the western Gulf Coast of Louisiana:\n\nwhere weight is in grams and length is total length measured in millimeters. For example, these relationships predict that a 600-mm red drum (just under 2 ft long) would weigh about 2300 g (just over 5 lb). These relationships can be used more specifically to determine how healthy a sample of red drum is by comparing their actual weights to weights predicted by these relationships for the same length.\n\nIn the early 1980s, the chef Paul Prudhomme made his dish of Cajun-style blackened redfish (red drum) popular. His seasoning was then sold commercially and the dish became so popular that redfish were overfished to the point of near extinction. \n\nOn March 1, 2009, redfish was the \"secret ingredient\" on the television program \"Iron Chef America\", with competitors Mourad Lahlou and Cat Cora both preparing several dishes from the fish.\n\nRed drum have a moderate flavor and are not oily. Big drum can be tricky to clean; removing the large scales can be challenging. Many fishers prefer to fillet with an electric knife, first removing the fillet from along the backbone, and then using the electric knife to cut the fillet from the skin and scales. Fish over 15 lb can become tough and have a consistency comparable with chicken, rather than the flaky texture of many species of fish. Younger fish are often indistinguishable in flavor from black drum.\n\nFrom 1980 through 1988, commercial fishermen took an average of 28% of the redfish, while sport fishermen harvested 72%. Catch limits and size restrictions have increased the average weight of redfish caught in Louisiana coastal waters. Restrictions on both sport and commercial fishermen allowed the species to rebuild. States actively vary the recreational catch limits and minimum and maximum lengths to help maintain sustainable red drum populations. of October 20, 2007, issued by U.S. President George W. Bush, designated the red drum as a protected game fish. The order prohibits sale of red drum caught in federal waters and encourages states to consider designating red drum as a protected game fish within state waters.\nWhile they may no longer be commercially harvested in U.S. federal waters or in most state waters, they are readily caught and still enjoyed as table fare by many. In addition, farm-raised redfish are still available as a commercial product Commercial netting disappeared after coastal states such as Florida declared red drum prohibited for sale. Recreational size and bag limits have been highly effective, allowing daily limits to be increased in recent years.\n\nThe North Carolina General Assembly of 1971 designated the red drum as the official state saltwater fish. (Session Laws, 1961, c. 274; G.S. 145-6).\n"}
{"id": "1906321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906321", "title": "Ransomware", "text": "Ransomware\n\nRansomware is a type of malware from cryptovirology that threatens to publish the victim's data or perpetually block access to it unless a ransom is paid. While some simple ransomware may lock the system in a way which is not difficult for a knowledgeable person to reverse, more advanced malware uses a technique called cryptoviral extortion, in which it encrypts the victim's files, making them inaccessible, and demands a ransom payment to decrypt them. In a properly implemented cryptoviral extortion attack, recovering the files without the decryption key is an intractable problem – and difficult to trace digital currencies such as Ukash or Bitcoin and other cryptocurrency are used for the ransoms, making tracing and prosecuting the perpetrators difficult.\n\nRansomware attacks are typically carried out using a Trojan that is disguised as a legitimate file that the user is tricked into downloading or opening when it arrives as an email attachment. However, one high-profile example, the \"WannaCry worm\", travelled automatically between computers without user interaction.\n\nStarting from around 2012 the use of ransomware scams has grown internationally. There were 181.5 million ransomware attacks in the first six months of 2018. This marks a 229% increase over this same time frame in 2017. In June 2014, vendor McAfee released data showing that it had collected more than double the number of samples of ransomware that quarter than it had in the same quarter of the previous year. CryptoLocker was particularly successful, procuring an estimated US$3 million before it was taken down by authorities, and CryptoWall was estimated by the US Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) to have accrued over US$18 million by June 2015.\n\nThe concept of file-encrypting ransomware was invented and implemented by Young and Yung at Columbia University and was presented at the 1996 IEEE Security & Privacy conference. It is called \"cryptoviral extortion\" and it was inspired by the fictional facehugger in the movie \"Alien\". Cryptoviral extortion is the following three-round protocol carried out between the attacker and the victim.\n\n\nThe symmetric key is randomly generated and will not assist other victims. At no point is the attacker's private key exposed to victims and the victim need only send a very small ciphertext (the encrypted symmetric-cipher key) to the attacker.\n\nRansomware attacks are typically carried out using a Trojan, entering a system through, for example, a malicious attachment, embedded link in a Phishing email, or a vulnerability in a network service. The program then runs a payload, which locks the system in some fashion, or claims to lock the system but does not (e.g., a scareware program). Payloads may display a fake warning purportedly by an entity such as a law enforcement agency, falsely claiming that the system has been used for illegal activities, contains content such as pornography and \"pirated\" media.\nSome payloads consist simply of an application designed to lock or restrict the system until payment is made, typically by setting the Windows Shell to itself, or even modifying the master boot record and/or partition table to prevent the operating to the system from booting until it is repaired. The most sophisticated payloads encrypt files, with many using strong encryption to encrypt the victim's files in such a way that only the malware author has the needed decryption key.\n\nPayment is virtually always the goal, and the victim is coerced into paying for the ransomware to be removed either by supplying a program that can decrypt the files, or by sending an unlock code that undoes the payload's changes. While the attacker may simply take the money without returning the victim's files, it is in the attacker's best interest to perform the decryption as agreed, since victims will stop sending payments if it becomes known that they serve no purpose. A key element in making ransomware work for the attacker is a convenient payment system that is hard to trace. A range of such payment methods have been used, including wire transfers, premium-rate text messages, pre-paid voucher services such as paysafecard, and the digital currency bitcoin.\n\nThe first known malware extortion attack, the \"AIDS Trojan\" written by Joseph Popp in 1989, had a design failure so severe it was not necessary to pay the extortionist at all. Its payload hid the files on the hard drive and encrypted only their names, and displayed a message claiming that the user's license to use a certain piece of software had expired. The user was asked to pay US$189 to \"PC Cyborg Corporation\" in order to obtain a repair tool even though the decryption key could be extracted from the code of the Trojan. The Trojan was also known as \"PC Cyborg\". Popp was declared mentally unfit to stand trial for his actions, but he promised to donate the profits from the malware to fund AIDS research.\n\nThe idea of abusing anonymous cash systems to safely collect ransom from human kidnapping was introduced in 1992 by Sebastiaan von Solms and David Naccache. This electronic money collection method was also proposed for cryptoviral extortion attacks. In the von Solms-Naccache scenario a newspaper publication was used (since bitcoin ledgers did not exist at the time the paper was written).\n\nThe notion of using public key cryptography for data kidnapping attacks was introduced in 1996 by Adam L. Young and Moti Yung. Young and Yung critiqued the failed AIDS Information Trojan that relied on symmetric cryptography alone, the fatal flaw being that the decryption key could be extracted from the Trojan, and implemented an experimental proof-of-concept cryptovirus on a Macintosh SE/30 that used RSA and the Tiny Encryption Algorithm (TEA) to hybrid encrypt the victim's data. Since public key crypto is used, the cryptovirus only contains the \"encryption\" key. The attacker keeps the corresponding \"private\" decryption key private. Young and Yung's original experimental cryptovirus had the victim send the asymmetric ciphertext to the attacker who deciphers it and returns the symmetric decryption key it contains to the victim for a fee. Long before electronic money existed Young and Yung proposed that electronic money could be extorted through encryption as well, stating that \"the virus writer can effectively hold all of the money ransom until half of it is given to him. Even if the e-money was previously encrypted by the user, it is of no use to the user if it gets encrypted by a cryptovirus\". They referred to these attacks as being \"cryptoviral extortion\", an overt attack that is part of a larger class of attacks in a field called cryptovirology, which encompasses both overt and covert attacks. The cryptoviral extortion protocol was inspired by the parasitic relationship between H. R. Giger's facehugger and its host in the movie \"Alien\".\n\nExamples of extortionate ransomware became prominent in May 2005. By mid-2006, Trojans such as Gpcode, TROJ.RANSOM.A, Archiveus, Krotten, Cryzip, and MayArchive began utilizing more sophisticated RSA encryption schemes, with ever-increasing key-sizes. Gpcode.AG, which was detected in June 2006, was encrypted with a 660-bit RSA public key. In June 2008, a variant known as Gpcode.AK was detected. Using a 1024-bit RSA key, it was believed large enough to be computationally infeasible to break without a concerted distributed effort.\n\nEncrypting ransomware returned to prominence in late 2013 with the propagation of CryptoLocker—using the Bitcoin digital currency platform to collect ransom money. In December 2013, ZDNet estimated based on Bitcoin transaction information that between 15 October and 18 December, the operators of CryptoLocker had procured about US$27 million from infected users. The CryptoLocker technique was widely copied in the months following, including CryptoLocker 2.0 (thought not to be related to CryptoLocker), CryptoDefense (which initially contained a major design flaw that stored the private key on the infected system in a user-retrievable location, due to its use of Windows' built-in encryption APIs), and the August 2014 discovery of a Trojan specifically targeting network-attached storage devices produced by Synology. In January 2015, it was reported that ransomware-styled attacks have occurred against individual websites via hacking, and through ransomware designed to target Linux-based web servers.\n\nThe Microsoft Malware Protection Center identified a trend away from WSF files in favour of LNK files and PowerShell scripting. These LNK shortcut files install Locky ransomware by automating infection operations rather than relying on traditional user downloads of WSF files—all of which is made possible by the universal PowerShell Windows application. Unfortunately, cybercriminals have been able to leverage PowerShell for their attacks for years. In a recent report, the application was found to be involved in nearly 40% of endpoint security incidents. While attackers have been finding weaknesses in the Windows operating system for years, it's clear that there's something problematic with PowerShell scripting.\n\nSome ransomware strains have used proxies tied to Tor hidden services to connect to their command and control servers, increasing the difficulty of tracing the exact location of the criminals. Furthermore, dark web vendors have increasingly started to offer the technology as a service.\n\nSymantec has classified ransomware to be the most dangerous cyber threat.\n\nIn August 2010, Russian authorities arrested nine individuals connected to a ransomware Trojan known as WinLock. Unlike the previous Gpcode Trojan, WinLock did not use encryption. Instead, WinLock trivially restricted access to the system by displaying pornographic images and asked users to send a premium-rate SMS (costing around US$10) to receive a code that could be used to unlock their machines. The scam hit numerous users across Russia and neighbouring countries—reportedly earning the group over US$16 million.\n\nIn 2011, a ransomware Trojan surfaced that imitated the Windows Product Activation notice, and informed users that a system's Windows installation had to be re-activated due to \"[being a] victim of fraud\". An online activation option was offered (like the actual Windows activation process), but was unavailable, requiring the user to call one of six international numbers to input a 6-digit code. While the malware claimed that this call would be free, it was routed through a rogue operator in a country with high international phone rates, who placed the call on hold, causing the user to incur large international long distance charges.\n\nIn February 2013, a ransomware Trojan based on the Stamp.EK exploit kit surfaced; the malware was distributed via sites hosted on the project hosting services SourceForge and GitHub that claimed to offer \"fake nude pics\" of celebrities. In July 2013, an OS X-specific ransomware Trojan surfaced, which displays a web page that accuses the user of downloading pornography. Unlike its Windows-based counterparts, it does not block the entire computer, but simply exploits the behaviour of the web browser itself to frustrate attempts to close the page through normal means.\n\nIn July 2013, a 21-year-old man from Virginia, whose computer coincidentally did contain pornographic photographs of underage girls with whom he had conducted sexualized communications, turned himself in to police after receiving and being deceived by FBI MoneyPak Ransomware accusing him of possessing child pornography. An investigation discovered the incriminating files, and the man was charged with child sexual abuse and possession of child pornography.\n\nThe converse of ransomware is a cryptovirology attack invented by Adam L. Young that threatens to publish stolen information from the victim's computer system rather than deny the victim access to it. In a leakware attack, malware exfiltrates sensitive host data either to the attacker or alternatively, to remote instances of the malware, and the attacker threatens to publish the victim's data unless a ransom is paid. The attack was presented at West Point in 2003 and was summarized in the book \"Malicious Cryptography\" as follows, \"The attack differs from the extortion attack in the following way. In the extortion attack, the victim is denied access to its own valuable information and has to pay to get it back, where in the attack that is presented here the victim retains access to the information but its disclosure is at the discretion of the computer virus\". The attack is rooted in game theory and was originally dubbed \"non-zero sum games and survivable malware\". The attack can yield monetary gain in cases where the malware acquires access to information that may damage the victim user or organization, e.g., the reputational damage that could result from publishing proof that the attack itself was a success.\n\nWith the increased popularity of ransomware on PC platforms, ransomware targeting mobile operating systems has also proliferated. Typically, mobile ransomware payloads are blockers, as there is little incentive to encrypt data since it can be easily restored via online synchronization. Mobile ransomware typically targets the Android platform, as it allows applications to be installed from third-party sources. The payload is typically distributed as an APK file installed by an unsuspecting user; it may attempt to display a blocking message over top of all other applications, while another used a form of clickjacking to cause the user to give it \"device administrator\" privileges to achieve deeper access to the system.\n\nDifferent tactics have been used on iOS devices, such as exploiting iCloud accounts and using the Find My iPhone system to lock access to the device. On iOS 10.3, Apple patched a bug in the handling of JavaScript pop-up windows in Safari that had been exploited by ransomware websites. \nIt recently has been shown that ransomware may also target ARM architectures like those that can be found in various Internet-of-Things (IoT) devices, such as Industrial IoT edge devices.\n\nIn August 2019 researchers demonstrated it's possible to infect DSLR cameras with ransomware. Digital cameras often use Picture Transfer Protocol (PTP - standard protocol used to transfer files.) Researchers found that it was possible to exploit vulnerabilities in the protocol to infect target camera(s) with ransomware (or execute any arbitrary code). This attack was presented at the Defcon security conference in Las Vegas as a proof of concept attack (not as actual armed malware).\n\nIn 2012, a major ransomware Trojan known as Reveton began to spread. Based on the Citadel Trojan (which itself, is based on the Zeus Trojan), its payload displays a warning purportedly from a law enforcement agency claiming that the computer has been used for illegal activities, such as downloading unlicensed software or child pornography. Due to this behaviour, it is commonly referred to as the \"Police Trojan\". The warning informs the user that to unlock their system, they would have to pay a fine using a voucher from an anonymous prepaid cash service such as Ukash or paysafecard. To increase the illusion that the computer is being tracked by law enforcement, the screen also displays the computer's IP address, while some versions display footage from a victim's webcam to give the illusion that the user is being recorded.\n\nReveton initially began spreading in various European countries in early 2012. Variants were localized with templates branded with the logos of different law enforcement organizations based on the user's country; for example, variants used in the United Kingdom contained the branding of organizations such as the Metropolitan Police Service and the Police National E-Crime Unit. Another version contained the logo of the royalty collection society PRS for Music, which specifically accused the user of illegally downloading music. In a statement warning the public about the malware, the Metropolitan Police clarified that they would never lock a computer in such a way as part of an investigation.\n\nIn May 2012, Trend Micro threat researchers discovered templates for variations for the United States and Canada, suggesting that its authors may have been planning to target users in North America. By August 2012, a new variant of Reveton began to spread in the United States, claiming to require the payment of a $200 fine to the FBI using a MoneyPak card. In February 2013, a Russian citizen was arrested in Dubai by Spanish authorities for his connection to a crime ring that had been using Reveton; ten other individuals were arrested on money laundering charges. In August 2014, Avast Software reported that it had found new variants of Reveton that also distribute password-stealing malware as part of its payload.\n\nEncrypting ransomware reappeared in September 2013 with a Trojan known as \"CryptoLocker\", which generated a 2048-bit RSA key pair and uploaded in turn to a command-and-control server, and used to encrypt files using a whitelist of specific file extensions. The malware threatened to delete the private key if a payment of Bitcoin or a pre-paid cash voucher was not made within 3 days of the infection. Due to the extremely large key size it uses, analysts and those affected by the Trojan considered CryptoLocker extremely difficult to repair. Even after the deadline passed, the private key could still be obtained using an online tool, but the price would increase to 10 BTC—which cost approximately US$2300 as of November 2013.\n\nCryptoLocker was isolated by the seizure of the Gameover ZeuS botnet as part of Operation Tovar, as officially announced by the U.S. Department of Justice on 2 June 2014. The Department of Justice also publicly issued an indictment against the Russian hacker Evgeniy Bogachev for his alleged involvement in the botnet. It was estimated that at least US$3 million was extorted with the malware before the shutdown.\n\nIn September 2014, a wave of ransomware Trojans surfaced that first targeted users in Australia, under the names \"CryptoWall\" and \"CryptoLocker\" (which is, as with CryptoLocker 2.0, unrelated to the original CryptoLocker). The Trojans spread via fraudulent e-mails claiming to be failed parcel delivery notices from Australia Post; to evade detection by automatic e-mail scanners that follow all links on a page to scan for malware, this variant was designed to require users to visit a web page and enter a CAPTCHA code before the payload is actually downloaded, preventing such automated processes from being able to scan the payload. Symantec determined that these new variants, which it identified as \"CryptoLocker.F\", were again, unrelated to the original CryptoLocker due to differences in their operation. A notable victim of the Trojans was the Australian Broadcasting Corporation; live programming on its television news channel ABC News 24 was disrupted for half an hour and shifted to Melbourne studios due to a CryptoWall infection on computers at its Sydney studio.\n\nAnother Trojan in this wave, TorrentLocker, initially contained a design flaw comparable to CryptoDefense; it used the same keystream for every infected computer, making the encryption trivial to overcome. However, this flaw was later fixed. By late-November 2014, it was estimated that over 9,000 users had been infected by TorrentLocker in Australia alone, trailing only Turkey with 11,700 infections.\n\nAnother major ransomware Trojan targeting Windows, CryptoWall, first appeared in 2014. One strain of CryptoWall was distributed as part of a malvertising campaign on the Zedo ad network in late-September 2014 that targeted several major websites; the ads redirected to rogue websites that used browser plugin exploits to download the payload. A Barracuda Networks researcher also noted that the payload was signed with a digital signature in an effort to appear trustworthy to security software. \nCryptoWall 3.0 used a payload written in JavaScript as part of an email attachment, which downloads executables disguised as JPG images. To further evade detection, the malware creates new instances of explorer.exe and svchost.exe to communicate with its servers. When encrypting files, the malware also deletes volume shadow copies and installs spyware that steals passwords and Bitcoin wallets.\n\nThe FBI reported in June 2015 that nearly 1,000 victims had contacted the bureau's Internet Crime Complaint Center to report CryptoWall infections, and estimated losses of at least $18 million.\n\nThe most recent version, CryptoWall 4.0, enhanced its code to avoid antivirus detection, and encrypts not only the data in files but also the file names.\n\nFusob is one of the major mobile ransomware families. Between April 2015 and March 2016, about 56 percent of accounted mobile ransomware was Fusob.\n\nLike a typical mobile ransomware, it employs scare tactics to extort people to pay a ransom. The program pretends to be an accusatory authority, demanding the victim to pay a fine from $100 to $200 USD or otherwise face a fictitious charge. Rather surprisingly, Fusob suggests using iTunes gift cards for payment. Also, a timer clicking down on the screen adds to the users’ anxiety as well.\n\nIn order to infect devices, Fusob masquerades as a pornographic video player. Thus, victims, thinking it is harmless, unwittingly download Fusob.\n\nWhen Fusob is installed, it first checks the language used in the device. If it uses Russian or certain Eastern European languages, Fusob does nothing. Otherwise, it proceeds on to lock the device and demand ransom. Among victims, about 40% of them are in Germany with the United Kingdom and the United States following with 14.5% and 11.4% respectively.\n\nFusob has lots in common with Small, which is another major family of mobile ransomware. They represented over 93% of mobile ransomware between 2015 and 2016.\n\nIn May 2017, the WannaCry ransomware attack spread through the Internet, using an exploit vector named EternalBlue, which was allegedly leaked from the U.S. National Security Agency. The ransomware attack, unprecedented in scale, infected more than 230,000 computers in over 150 countries, using 20 different languages to demand money from users using Bitcoin cryptocurrency. WannaCry demanded US$300 per computer. The attack affected Telefónica and several other large companies in Spain, as well as parts of the British National Health Service (NHS), where at least 16 hospitals had to turn away patients or cancel scheduled operations, FedEx, Deutsche Bahn, Honda, Renault, as well as the Russian Interior Ministry and Russian telecom MegaFon. The attackers gave their victims a 7-day deadline from the day their computers got infected, after which the encrypted files would be deleted.\n\nPetya was first discovered in March 2016; unlike other forms of encrypting ransomware, the malware aimed to infect the master boot record, installing a payload which encrypts the file tables of the NTFS file system the next time that the infected system boots, blocking the system from booting into Windows at all until the ransom is paid. Check Point reported that despite what it believed to be an innovative evolution in ransomware design, it had resulted in relatively-fewer infections than other ransomware active around the same time frame.\n\nOn 27 June 2017, a heavily modified version of Petya was used for a global cyberattack primarily targeting Ukraine (but affecting many countries). This version had been modified to propagate using the same EternalBlue exploit that was used by WannaCry. Due to another design change, it is also unable to actually unlock a system after the ransom is paid; this led to security analysts speculating that the attack was not meant to generate illicit profit, but to simply cause disruption.\n\nOn 24 October 2017, some users in Russia and Ukraine reported a new ransomware attack, named \"Bad Rabbit\", which follows a similar pattern to WannaCry and Petya by encrypting the user's file tables and then demands a Bitcoin payment to decrypt them. ESET believed the ransomware to have been distributed by a bogus update to Adobe Flash software. Among agencies that were affected by the ransomware were: Interfax, Odessa International Airport, Kiev Metro, and the Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine. As it used corporate network structures to spread, the ransomware was also discovered in other countries, including Turkey, Germany, Poland, Japan, South Korea, and the United States. Experts believed the ransomware attack was tied to the Petya attack in Ukraine (especially because Bad Rabbit's code has many overlapping and analogical elements to the code of Petya/NotPetya, appending to CrowdStrike Bad Rabbit and NotPetya's DLL (dynamic link library) share 67 percent of the same code) though the only identity to the culprits are the names of characters from the \"Game of Thrones\" series embedded within the code.\n\nSecurity experts found that the ransomware did not use the EternalBlue exploit to spread, and a simple method to vaccinate an unaffected machine running older Windows versions was found by 24 October 2017. Further, the sites that had been used to spread the bogus Flash updating have gone offline or removed the problematic files within a few days of its discovery, effectively killing off the spread of Bad Rabbit.\n\nIn 2016, a new strain of ransomware emerged that was targeting JBoss servers. This strain, named \"SamSam\", was found to bypass the process of phishing or illicit downloads in favor of exploiting vulnerabilities on weak servers. The malware uses a Remote Desktop Protocol brute-force attack to guess weak passwords until one is broken. The virus has been behind attacks on government and healthcare targets, with notable hacks occurring against the town of Farmington, New Mexico, the Colorado Department of Transportation, Davidson County, North Carolina, and most recently, a major breach of security on the infrastructure of Atlanta.\n\nMohammad Mehdi Shah Mansouri (born in Qom, Iran in 1991) and Faramarz Shahi Savandi (born in Shiraz, Iran, in 1984) are wanted by the FBI for allegedly launching SamSam ransomware. The two have allegedly made $6 million from extortion and caused over $30 million in damages using the malware.\n\nSyskey is a utility that was included with Windows NT-based operating systems to encrypt the user account database, optionally with a password. The tool has sometimes been effectively used as ransomware during technical support scams—where a caller with remote access to the computer may use the tool to lock the user out of their computer with a password known only to them. Syskey was removed from later versions of Windows 10 and Windows Server in 2017, due to being obsolete and \"known to be used by hackers as part of ransomware scams\".\n\nAs with other forms of malware, security software (antivirus software) might not detect a ransomware payload, or, especially in the case of encrypting payloads, only after encryption is under way or complete, particularly if a new version unknown to the protective software is distributed. If an attack is suspected or detected in its early stages, it takes some time for encryption to take place; immediate removal of the malware (a relatively simple process) before it has completed would stop further damage to data, without salvaging any already lost.\n\nSecurity experts have suggested precautionary measures for dealing with ransomware. Using software or other security policies to block known payloads from launching will help to prevent infection, but will not protect against all attacks As such, having a proper backup solution is a critical component to defending against ransomware. Note that, because many ransomware attackers will not only encrypt the victim's live machine but it will also attempt to delete any hot backups stored locally or on accessible over the network on a NAS, it's also critical to maintain \"offline\" backups of data stored in locations inaccessible from any potentially infected computer, such as external storage drives or devices that do not have any access to any network (including the Internet), prevents them from being accessed by the ransomware. Moreover, if using a NAS or Cloud storage, then the computer should have append-only permission to the destination storage, such that it cannot delete or overwrite previous backups.\n\nInstalling security updates issued by software vendors can mitigate the vulnerabilities leveraged by certain strains to propagate. Other measures include cyber hygiene − exercising caution when opening e-mail attachments and links, network segmentation, and keeping critical computers isolated from networks. Furthermore, to mitigate the spread of ransomware measures of infection control can be applied. Such may include disconnecting infected machines from all networks, educational programs, effective communication channels, malware surveillance and ways of collective participation\n\nA number of file systems keep snapshots of the data they hold, which can be used to recover the contents of files from a time prior to the ransomware attack in the event the ransomware doesn't disable it.\n\nThere are a number of tools intended specifically to decrypt files locked by ransomware, although successful recovery may not be possible. If the same encryption key is used for all files, decryption tools use files for which there are both uncorrupted backups and encrypted copies (a known-plaintext attack in the jargon of cryptanalysis. But, it only works when the cipher the attacker used was weak to begin with, being vulnerable to known-plaintext attack); recovery of the key, if it is possible, may take several days. Free ransomware decryption tools can help decrypt files encrypted by the following forms of ransomware: AES_NI, Alcatraz Locker, Apocalypse, BadBlock, Bart, BTCWare, Crypt888, CryptoMix, CrySiS, EncrypTile, FindZip, Globe, Hidden Tear, Jigsaw, LambdaLocker, Legion, NoobCrypt, Stampado, SZFLocker, TeslaCrypt, XData.\n\nIn addition, old copies of files may exist on the disk, which has been previously deleted. In some cases, these deleted versions may still be recoverable using software designed for that purpose.\n\nRansomware malicious software has evolved since its beginnings when it was confined to one or two countries in Eastern Europe which then spread across the Atlantic to the United States and Canada. The first versions of this type of malware used various techniques to disable the computers by locking the victims system machine (Locker Ransomware) [133]. Some examples of how this ransomware works, include; locking the screen by displaying a message from a branch of local law enforcement indicating the user's lines like “You have browsed illicit materials and must pay a fine”. They were first seen in Russia by year 2009 claiming to be a message from Microsoft. They also used to request a payment by sending an SMS message to a premium rate number. The next variant displayed pornographic image content and demanded payment for the removal of it.\n\nIn 2011 the tactics changed, the attackers started to use electronic payment methods and they added more languages to the messages which also changed based on the user's location which was obtained by geo-locating the user's IP addresses.\n\nNot only end users are affected by these attacks. Corporations, private entities, government, and even hospitals are also affected. For example, in healthcare (although 2015 was the year in which the largest ePHI data breaches occurred according to the ONC) 2016 was the year that ransomware started to increase exponentially in this market. According to the 2017 Internet Security Threat Report from Symantec Corp, ransomware affects not only IT systems but also patient care, clinical operations, and billing. Online criminals have found “there was easy money to be made in healthcare,” according to the Symantec report, which was developed with data from insurance claims and the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS).\n\nRansomware is growing rapidly across the internet users but also for the IoT environment which creates a challenging problem to the INFOSEC while increasing the attack surface area. They are evolving into more sophisticated attacks and, they are becoming more resistant; at the same time, they are also more accessible than ever. Today, for a cheap price, the attackers have access to ransomware as a service. The big problem is that millions of dollars are lost by some organizations and industries that have decided to pay, such as the Hollywood Presbyterian Medical Center and the MedStar Health. At the end, the pressure to offer services to the patients and keep their lives is so critical that they are forced to pay, and the attacker knows that. The problem here is that by paying the ransom, they are funding the cybercrime.\n\nAccording to Symantec 2019 ISTR report, for the first time since 2013, in 2018 there was an observed decrease in ransomware activity with a drop of 20 percent. Before 2017, consumers were the preferred victims, but in 2017 this changed dramatically, it moved to the enterprises. In 2018 this path accelerated with 81 percent infections which represented a 12 percent increase. The common distribution method today is based on email campaigns.\n\nCyber awareness training is crucial to detecting attacks, whereas technology cannot protect against careless or foolish behavior. It is important for organizations to help their users recognize malicious contact whereas ransomware is typically introduced through email and social engineering techniques to either download a file, provide key sensitive information or take some action that will bring harm to the organization.  According to KnowBe4 Osterman report, there are number of approaches to security awareness training that are practiced by organizations and managed by security teams. There is the break room approach which are special meetings periodically held  to talk about security; monthly security videos with short snippets of security information; simulated phishing tests which target users with internal phishing messages; human firewall approach where everyone is subject to simulated phishing and those employees that are prone to attack are identified; and then there is the do-nothing approach where cyber awareness training does not exist in the organization.\n\nAn effective and successful cyber awareness training program must be sponsored from the top of the organization with supporting policies and procedures which effectively outline ramifications of non-compliance, frequency of training and a process for acknowledgement of training. Without sponsorship from the “C-level” executives the training cannot be ignored.  Other factors that are key to a successful Cyber Awareness Training program is to establish a baseline identifying the level of knowledge of the organization to establish where the users are in their knowledge prior to training and after. Whichever approach an organization decides to implement, it is important that the organization has policies and procedures in place that provide training that is up to date, performed frequently and has the backing of the entire organization from the top down.\n\nInvestment in technology to detect and stop these threats must be maintained, but along with that we need to remember and focus on our weakest link, which is the user.\n\nThe publication of proof-of-concept attack code is common among academic researchers and vulnerability researchers.\nIt teaches the nature of the threat, conveys the gravity of the issues, and enables countermeasures to be devised and put into place. However, lawmakers with the support of law-enforcement bodies are contemplating making the\ncreation of ransomware illegal. In the state of Maryland, the original draft of HB 340 made it a felony to create ransomware, punishable by up to 10 years in prison. However, this provision was removed from the final version of the bill.\nA minor in Japan was arrested for creating and distributing ransomware code.\nYoung and Yung have had the ANSI C source code to a ransomware cryptotrojan on-line, at cryptovirology.com, since 2005 as part of a cryptovirology book being written. The source code to the cryptotrojan is still live on the Internet and is\nassociated with a draft of Chapter 2.\nA British student Zain Qaiser (24) from Barking, London was jailed for more than six years at Kingston Crown Court for his ransomware attacks in 2019.. He is said to have been \"the most prolific cyber criminal to be sentenced in the UK\". He became active when he was only 17. He contacted the Russian controller of one of the most powerful attacks, believed to be the Lurk malware gang, and arranged for a split of his profits. He also contacted online criminals from China and the US to move the money. For about one and a half years, he posed as a legitimate supplier of online promotions of book advertising on some of the world's most visited legal pornography websites. Each of the adverts that was promoted on the websites contained the Reveton strain of the malicious \"Angler Exploit Kit (AEK)\" code that seized control of the machine. Investigators discovered about £700,000 of earnings, although his network may have earned more than £4m. He may have hidden some money using cryptocurrencies. The ransomware would instruct victims to buy GreenDot MoneyPak vouchers, and enter the code in the Reveton panel that being displayed on the screens. This money entered a MoneyPak account managed by Qaiser, who would then deposit the voucher payments into an American co-conspirator's (Raymond Odigie Uadiale Uadiale, who was then a student at Florida International University during 2012 and 2013 and later worked for Microsoft) debit card, who would convert the money into Liberty Reserve digital currency and deposit it into Qaiser's Liberty Reserve account. \n\nA breakthrough in this case came occurred in May 2013 when authorities from several countries seized the Liberty Reserve servers, obtaining access to all the transactions and account history. Qaiser was running encrypted virtual machines on his Macbook Pro with both Mac and Windows operating systems. He could not be tried earlier because he was sectioned under the UK Mental Health Act at Goodmayes hospital (where he was found to be using the hospital wifi to access his advertising sites.) His lawyer claimed that Qaiser had suffered from mental illness. Russian police arrested 50 members of the Lurk malware gang in June 2016. Raymond Odigie Uadiale, a naturalized US citizen of Nigerian descent, was jailed for 18 months.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1906325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906325", "title": "Surinam cockroach", "text": "Surinam cockroach\n\nThe Surinam cockroach or greenhouse cockroach (\"Pycnoscelus surinamensis\") is a species of burrowing cockroach. It is a common plant pest endemic to the Indomalayan realm that has spread to tropical and into subtropical regions around the world, and in isolated populations to temperate climates where protective habitat such as greenhouses provide shelter for individuals inadvertently shipped in the soil of plants. Its populations are almost exclusively female, and it reproduces through parthenogenesis, having evolved several clonal strains from its sexual progenitor \"P. indicus\".\n\nAdults are around in length, and have dark brown to black bodies with shiny paler brown wings. The front edge of the pronotum (head shield) has a pale white band. While males are rarely produced, male adults have longer wings than females, completely covering the abdomen, although both genders are poor flyers.\n\nNymphs are around long at birth, translucent white with orange-brown mandibles and spines, and darker eye spots than the rest of the head. The exoskeleton gradually hardens on exposure to air, becoming a glossy brown in 5 to 6 hours, while its underside and legs remain translucent. Older nymphs develop shiny black anterior abdominal segments, and roughened, dull black posterior segments.\n\n\"P. surinamensis\" originated in the Indomalayan region and is now cosmopolitan, found around the world in tropical regions, extending into subtropical regions, and temporarily establishing populations in protective habitats in temperate climates, particularly in greenhouses (also called glasshouses) or other areas heated during colder periods. It can be spread to greenhouses with shipments of tropical plants. In the United States it is common in the southeastern region from North Carolina to Texas, in addition to temporary populations in more temperate climates.\n\n\"P. surinamensis\" is a burrowing cockroach, commonly burrowing in loose soil, humus, mould, compost piles and lawn thatch, or hiding beneath rocks, rotten branches, trash and other debris. It is considered peridomestic, found living only near human constructions or crops in a 1996 study, and may be considered synanthropic. It has a relatively high rate of cutaneous water loss compared to non-burrowing species of cockroaches, and is nearly exclusively associated with moist soil across its range.\n\nWhile the species is occasionally found inside homes, it is not a common household pest. It is a plantation and garden pest in tropical regions, and can be especially problematic in heated greenhouses, where large numbers can hide by day and emerge at night, gnawing the softer parts of plants. It is thought to be transferred into homes and businesses in potted plants or mulch used for potted plants.\n\nIndoor infestations can often be controlled using sprays or granules on potted plants. Outdoor treatment should focus on infested locations such as wood piles, mulch, and foundation plantings, and a residual barrier spray may be useful around houses.\n\nAn unusual aspect of \"P. surinamensis\" is that the species reproduces parthenogenetically, a form of asexual reproduction in which embryos develop from unfertilized eggs. \"P. surinamensis\" reproduce by thelytokous parthenogenesis, a type of parthenogenesis in which offspring are almost exclusively female clones. Thelytokous parthenesis is known in about 1% of known animal species.\n\nOptional thelkytokous parthenogenesis occurs in several cockroach species when females are isolated from males, including in the common domestic pests \"Blatta orientalis\", \"Blattella germanica\", and \"Periplaneta americana\", but in \"P. surinamensis\" it is obligatory parthenogenesis, its sole means of reproduction. Earlier taxonomy treated P. surinamensis as a species with both sexual and asexual forms, reproducing asexually in some populations, but sexually in other populations. Roth in 1967 applied the name \"P. indicus\" (Fabricius, 1775) to the sexually-reproducing taxon from which the parthenogenetic form \"P. surinamensis\" is descended. While \"P. surinamensis\" is cosmopolitan, \"P. indicus\" is endemic to the Indomalayasian region and adjacent parts of Southeast Asia, and spread just to Hawaiian and Mauritian islands.\n\nIn \"P. surinamensis\", males are rarely born and are nonfunctional with frequency varying by population. An Australian colony being studied produced several, while none were seen in a Florida colony in over 15 years of study. In a parthenogenetic moth the rate varied by how long a population was stabilized, which suggests the possibility that Australian colony may have developed parthengenesis more recently than the Florida colony.\n\nP. surinamensis has at least 21 diploid clones, born independently from sexual females, meaning the thelytokous parthenogenesis has evolved repeatedly. There are also 11 known triploid clones, produced by backcrosses between clones and \"P. indicus\". Different clones have established populations throughout the species' range, with at least ten different clone populations present in the United States alone.\n\nObligatory parthenogenesis was known only in \"P. surinamensis\" until 2003, when it was reported in a form of the species \"Phyllodromica subaptera\". Asexual forms of \"P. subaptera\", spread through most Mediterranean countries, are morphologically indistinguishable from the sexual form, found only on the Iberian peninsula, suggesting the trait was relatively recently acquired.\n\nReproduction is usually ovoviviparous, the ootheca carried internally during gestation until nymphs hatch within the body and are delivered, usually at night or in darkness. Occasionally stress or other factors may result in premature release of the ootheca, which can result in non-viability of the eggs. The ootheca itself measures 9x3.5x2.5 mm, housing 30-36 eggs in two rows of alternately spaced segments. Remains of the egg case are expelled around the time the nymphs are being born, sometimes pulled out with the hind limbs, and the ootheca fragments are usually quickly devoured by the newborn nymphs.\n\n\"P. surinamensis\" acts as the intermediate host for the parasitic roundworms \"Oxyspirura mansoni\" and \"Oxyspirura parvorum\", which infect the eyes of poultry.\n\n\"O. mansoni\", known as the chicken eyeworm among other names, can cause eye problems ranging from mild conjunctivitis to severe ophthalmia and serious vision impairment in its final hosts, which include chickens, turkeys, guineafowl and peafowl. Its life cycle involves eggs passing through a bird's lachrymal duct, being swallowed and passed in the bird's feces, a \"P. surinamensis\" cockroach eating the feces, larvae emerging in the cockroach, the bird eating the cockroach, and finally the eye worm larvae migrating up the oesophagus and pharynx to the bird's eye. While \"O. mansoni\" is not present in Europe, it is present in many areas of the world, particularly the tropical and subtropical environments where \"P. surinamensis\" is permanently established.\n\n"}
{"id": "1906327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906327", "title": "Paul Fejos", "text": "Paul Fejos\n\nPál Fejős, commonly known by Paul Fejos (January 27, 1897 – April 23, 1963), was a Hungarian-born director of feature films and documentaries who worked in a number of countries including the United States. He also studied medicine in his youth and became a prominent anthropologist later in life. During World War I, Fejos worked as a medical orderly for the Imperial Austrian Army on the Italian front lines and also managed a theatre that performed for troops. After the war, he returned to Budapest and eventually worked for the Orient-Film production company. He began to direct films in 1919 or 1920 for Mobil Studios in Hungary until he escaped in 1923 to flee the White Terror and the Horthy regime. He made his way to New York City and then eventually to Hollywood where he started production on his first American feature film, \"The Last Moment\", in October 1927. As a major hit, the film allowed him to sign with Universal Studios. After a number of other successful films, Fejos left America in 1931 to direct sound films in France. In 1941 he stopped making films all together and became the Director of Research and the acting head of the Viking Fund.\n\nFejos was born in Budapest, Hungary, as Pál Fejős to parents Desiré Fejős and his wife Aurora, née Novelly. He had one older sister, Olga Fejős. Like many film directors, Fejos exaggerated or invented myths for large portions of his life story and according to him his father was a captain with the Hussars and his mother was a Lady-in-waiting for the Austrian-Hungarian Empress, and that as a youth Fejos himself was an official of the Imperial Court. The truth was that his mother's family originated from Italy but did have an aristocratic background and his father was a pharmacist in Dunaföldvár. Shortly before Fejos was born his father sold his business and moved the family to Budapest in order to buy a shop there, but died of a heart attack before the new shop was purchased. He was then raised by his mother in his grandparents' home. As a boy he was said to be a smart student and to have loved films from an early age. He was sent to a school run by Piarist Fathers in Veszprém and later to a school in Kecskemét. He eventually studied medicine and in 1921 he received an M.D. from the Royal Hungarian Medical University of Budapest. In 1914 he married his first wife Mara Jankowsky. World War I started soon afterward and Fejos worked as a medical orderly for the Imperial Austrian Army on the Italian front lines. During the war he also managed a theatre that performed for the troops. Some additional myths about Fejos' life that surfaced a year later include that he was an officer in the Hussars, was wounded three times and that he was the first person to pilot a combat airplane in the entire war. After the war Fejos returned to Budapest and began working as a set painter for an opera company and eventually for the Orient-Film production company. He was divorced from his first wife in 1921, allegedly because of his irrational jealousy.\n\nFejos first began directing films in either 1919 or 1920 for Mobil Studios in Hungary. His earliest silent films included \"Pán\", a fantasy based on the mythological character, \"Lord Arthur Savile's Crime\", based on a play by Oscar Wilde, \"The Black Captain\", a film about police corruption in New York City, \"The Last of Asène Lupin\", a remake of the popular American serial film, and \"The Queen of Spades\", based on the novel by Alexander Pushkin. Fejos always saw film as closer to painting than to theatre and was more concerned about issues of light and shadow than story. He also stated at this time that no great film would be made until it could be shot in color.\n\nJust as other prominent Hungarian filmmakers like Michael Curtiz and Alexander Korda had done, Fejos left Hungary in 1923 to escape the White Terror and the Horthy regime. He first travelled to Vienna where he was briefly employed by Max Reinhardt, then to Berlin where he worked as an extra on a Fritz Lang's \"Die Nibelungen\". He then moved to Paris where he staged an unsuccessful production of Walter Hasenclever's avant-garde play \"L'Homme\". He finally emigrated to the United States in October 1923. He arrived in New York City penniless and spoke little English, but managed to get several low paying jobs at funeral parlors or piano factories. By the spring of 1924 his English had improved and he managed to get a job as a laboratory technician at the Rockefeller Institute for Medical Research. He earned $80 a week and was employed there for two years. In 1925 he married a co-worker named Mimosa Pfalz, but the marriage lasted only 30 days. While living in New York he did manage to land one theater gig as a technical advisor to ensure the Hungarian atmosphere of an adaptation of Ferenc Molnár's \"The Glass Slipper\". In the spring of 1926, Fejos spent his entire life savings of $45 on an old Buick and took a cross country trip to move to Los Angeles in pursuit of a film career there.\n\nWhen Fejos arrived in Hollywood he once again struggled to get by and only managed to land a few odd jobs working on scripts. Sometimes he would only survive by hitchhiking to Pasadena to steal fruit from orange orchards. On one of his hitchhiking trips he was picked up by a rich, young New Yorker named Edward Spitz, who had recently moved to Hollywood with ambitions to produce films. Fejos told Spitz all about his film career in Hungary and convinced Spitz to finance a film. Spitz agreed to give Fejos $5,000 to make a feature film, which was approximately only about 1% of the average film budget at that time. Fejos managed to work with this small budget and began production on his first American feature in October 1927. He was able to convince actor friends to appear in the film for free with the promise of compensation if it was successful, and even charmed Charlie Chaplin's frequent co-star Georgia Hale to appear in the film with the same promise at a time when Hale was earning $5,000 a week. He hired the inexperienced cameraman Leon Shamroy to shoot the film and rented studio space by the minute instead of by the day. Fejos also utilized sets that had been used for other films and made changes to the script when circumstances changed. When sets or actors were unavailable, Fejos had his crew film close-ups of hands, feet, cars or anything else that stuck him as interesting. Fejos was also able to get free film stock from the DuPont company, which was then trying to compete with the more established Kodak and Agfa companies. Filming lasted for 28 days.\n\n\"The Last Moment\" starred Otto Matieson as a man who commits suicide by drowning and then remembers the events of his life that lead up to his death in flashbacks. The finished film was seven reels and silent, but contained no title cards. It is currently a lost film, but a review described it as having \"dizzying wipes, multiple superimpositions and vertiginous camera movements.\" \"The Last Moment\" was released in 1928 and received rave reviews and was a financial hit. Charlie Chaplin praised it and writer Tamar Lane called it \"one of the most remarkable films that has ever been presented on the screen.\" With the film's success and Fejos's overnight celebrity status, major studios were suddenly competing for the former vagrant to sign contracts with them. Fejos settled with Universal Studios because its contract offered him complete artistic control.\n\nIn 1928 Fejos quickly began production on his next and best-known film: \"Lonesome\". The script was written by Edward T. Lowe Jr. and Tom Reed, and was based on a newspaper article about loneliness in the modern American cities. Carl Laemmle Jr. produced the film. In the film Glenn Tryon and Barbara Kent play two lonely New Yorkers who live in adjoining apartments but have never met. They meet by chance at Coney Island and begin a romance, but lose each other only to be reunited at their apartment building. The film was hand-tinted and, after the success of \"The Jazz Singer\", \"talkie\" scenes were added after production had finished. The film was another box office hit and its reputation has grown throughout the years. Georges Sadoul called it a precursor to neorealism. Jonathan Rosenbaum praised the film and compared Fejos to such better known contemporaries as F. W. Murnau, Fritz Lang, Sergei Eisenstein and Vsevolod Pudovkin. Andrew Sarris has called it \"a tender love story in its silent passages...[but] crude, clumsy and tediously tongue-tied in its talkie passages.\" Charles Higham stated that although \"its visual style, initially attractive, becomes a monotonous succession of busy shots, dissolving over each other in a perpetual flurry...[but] the films charm is real.\"\n\nFejos's third Hollywood film was \"The Last Performance\", another box office success for Universal Studios in 1929. The film starred Conrad Veidt as a stage magician who falls in love with his assistant and was another part sound, part silent film. Later that year Fejos began production on his largest and most ambitious film: \"Broadway\", based on the hit stage production produced by Jed Harris, George Abbott and Phillip Dunning. Fejos was given a $1 million budget, most of which was spent on the huge cubist nightclub set and on a 28-ton camera crane, which was the largest and most versatilw crane built up to that point. The film starred Glenn Tryon and Evelyn Brent. When released, the film was only a modest success and Fejos considered it a failure. It was remade by William A. Seiter in 1942. Film critic Miles Krueger said that \"the images of the Paradise Club and the huge musical number (\"Final in Technicolor\") have become basic screen literature.\"\n\nFejos then began filming the musical \"Captain of the Guard\" (AKA \"Marsellaise\") in 1930, the year he became an American citizen. During the shooting of an ambitious sequence with over 300 extras that depicted the storming of the Bastille, Fejos fell from a high scaffolding and suffered a concussion. It took him six weeks in bed to recover and John Stuart Robinson finished the film, with Fejos receiving no screen credit. He then worked on \"King of Jazz\", which was officially directed by John Murray Anderson. Fejos became angry with Universal that once again he did not receive screen credit for his contributions to the film. His frustration with Universal and Hollywood reached its peak when he was not hired to direct \"All Quiet on the Western Front\" and Fejos broke his contract with the studio. He signed a contract with Metro Goldwyn Mayer shortly afterwards, but only directed the German and French language versions of \"The Big House\".\n\nIn 1931 Fejos accepted an invitation from Pierre Braunberger to direct early sound films in France and left Hollywood for good. Fejos complained to a reporter that Hollywood was too commercial and like a drug for the public. He went on to state that the Hollywood-fantasy happy endings simply blinded working people from their hopeless lives and that \"if the movie theaters were suddenly closed in America, there would be a revolution\", but that in Europe he hoped for \"films made in the name of art.\" Fejos's career in France was short-lived and began with his supervision of Claude Heymann's \"American Love\" in 1931. Next Fejos made the ambitious \"Fantômas\", a remake of the famous serial made by Louis Feuillade in the 1910s.\n\nIn 1932 Fejos returned to Hungary to direct \"Spring Shower\" (\"Tavaszi Zápor\"), which some film critics have called his best film. The film stars Annabella as a young girl who is seduced and abandoned, has a child and dies in poverty only to have to scrub floors in Heaven. While in Heaven, she sees that her now-teenage daughter is about to make the same mistake that she made and dumps her wash bucket to cause a rain storm and prevent it. Jonathan Rosenbaum praised the film, stating that it had \"some magical moments of its own. Much as \"Lonesome\" seems indebted to the city and amusement park scenes in \"\", the nocturnal lighting and sensuality of Marie's seduction and its mysterious musical aftermath recall certain rustic night scenes in the same film. But unlike the determinism of Murnau's compositions and camera movements, Fejos' anthropological distance and fairy-tale encapsulations imply a different sort of relationship to his characters: the rapid cutting between details in a brothel parlous to convey Marie's confusion before fainting encourages an identification with sensations, not thoughts or feelings. And the beauty of Annabella's performance and a violin-and-clarinet theme may help one overlook some of the more reductive aspects of the folk legend that define the films dimensions.\" Fejos fell in love with Annabella and supposedly flew over her train back to France in a small plane and showered it with roses. Fejos's friend John W. Dodds has stated that \"every time [Fejos] moved to another country, it was because of an ending love affair\" and Fejos would spend the next few years throughout different European countries, often with frequent collaborators Lothar Wolff, his assistant director, and Ferenc Farkas, his composer. Fejos' second Hungarian film was \"The Verdict of Lake Balaton\" (\"Itél a Balaton\") in 1932. In this film Fejos used beautiful documentary-like footage of local fishermen and their everyday lives. The film was highly criticized in Hungary for its depiction of the fisherman and accused of bigotry against village life.\n\nIn 1933 Fejos moved to Austria and made \"Ray of Sunshine\" (\"Sonnenstrahl\"), again starring Annabella. The film focused on unemployment and poverty in post-World War I Austria and was praised by critics as \"the summit of Fejos' art in Europe...too often ignored by the critics.\" Later that year Fejos made the light comedy \"Voices of Spring\" (\"Frühlingstimmen\").\n\nIn 1934 Fejos moved to Denmark and made three films for the Nordisk Film company: a light comedy in 1934 called \"Flight of the millions\" (\"Flugten fra millionerne\"), a farce about a world where there are no prisoners or police officers called \"Prisoner Number 1\" (\"Fange Nr. 1\") in 1935, and an adaptation of playwright Kaj Munk's \"The Golden Smile\" (\"Det Gyldne Smil\") about the relationship between art and life in 1935.\n\nBy 1935 Fejos had grown tired of narrative films and their inauthentic sets and stories. That year he was sent by Nordisk Film to scout filming locations in Madagascar and loved the country so much that he ended up staying for nine months. He filmed over 30,000 feet of footage of animals, plants, tribal societies and local customs, all of which was unusable for a narrative feature. He also collected many artifacts and eventually donated them to the Royal Danish Geographical Society. When he returned to Denmark the unusable footage that he had shot was brought to the attention Svensk Filmindustri's who commissioned a series of six short documentaries to be made from the footage. These films included \"Black Horizons\" (\"Svarta Horisonter\"), \"The Dancers of Esira\", \"Beauty Salon in the Jungle\", \"The Most Useful Tree in the World\", \"Sea Devil\" and \"The Graves of our Father\", all released between 1935 and 1936. In 1936, he married Inga Arvad, a Danish journalist, noted for a romantic relationship with John F. Kennedy and known as the mistress of Axel Wenner-Gren. Arvad had appeared in \"Flight of the millions\" and the two remained married until the early 1940s.\n\nInspired by his newfound passion for cultures and history, Fejos studied cultural anthropology at the Museum of Copenhagen in 1936 and studied under Dr. Thompson. He was then commissioned by Svensk Filmindustri to make a series of ethnographic films in such countries as Indonesia, the Philippines, New Guinea, Ceylon and Thailand from 1937 to 1938. These films included \"A Handful of Rice\" (\"En Handfull Ris\"), \"Man and Woman\" (\"Man och Kvinna\"), \"The Tribe Still Lives\" (\"Stammen lever än\"), \"The Bamboo Age of Mentawei\" (\"Bambuåldern på Mentawei\"), \"The Chief's Son is Dead\" (\"Hövdingens son är död\"), \"The Komodo Dragon\" (\"Draken på Komodo\") and \"The Village Near Pleasant Fountain\" (\"Byn vid den trivsamma brunnen\").\n\nIn 1938 while returning from filming in Thailand Fejos met Swedish industrialist Axel Wenner-Gren, who would change Fejos' life in the same way that Edward Spitz had ten years earlier. The two men became fast friends and Wenner-Gren agreed to finance an expedition to Peru in late 1939. While in Cusco Fejos was told by a Franciscan friar about a legendary lost city somewhere in the jungle. He immediately contacted Wenner-Gren, who agreed to give additional financing for the expedition. Fejos discovered 18 ancient Incan cities and traveled to the headwaters of the Amazon river. In total, he spent a year in Peru studying the culture and filming the Yagua tribe. His research resulted in Fejos' final series of films \"Yagua\", released in 1940 and 1941. It also resulted in the publication of \"Ethnology of the Yagua\", published by the Viking Fund Series of Publications in Anthropology in 1943.\n\nIn 1941, Fejos both stopped making films and travelling to become Director of Research and acting head of the Viking Fund, a non-profit foundation based in New York City and created that same year by Axel Wenner-Gren. It was later renamed the Wenner-Gren Foundation for Anthropological Research. He went on to become highly respected in his field and was considered ahead of his time for calling for communication between various branches of anthropology. During this time Fejos also taught at Stanford, Yale and Columbia University.\n\nIn 1958 Fejos married anthropologist Lita Binns, who would succeed him as research Director when he died on April 23, 1963. His obituary writer David Bidney said that \"Paul Fejos had the temperament of an artist rather than a scholar or research scientist...He supported not only research projects but also, and primarily. individuals whom he trusted and considered worthy of support...His personal support of Pierre Teilhard de Chardin during the last years of the life of this eccentric genius is but one outstanding example...He leaves behind him the Wenner-Gren Foundation for Anthropological Research which he built, an international host of friends whom he helped, and a wife whom he cherished and appreciated.\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1906331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906331", "title": "The Call of Earth", "text": "The Call of Earth\n\nThe Call of Earth (1992) is a science fiction novel by American writer Orson Scott Card. It the second book of the Homecoming Saga, a fictionalization of the first few hundred years recorded in the Book of Mormon.\n\nThe book focuses on several key events that happen after Nafai, Elemak, Issib, Mebbekew, Zdorab and the father Volemak leave for the desert. Elemak has a dream from the Oversoul, foretelling Volemak's sons going back to the city of Basilica to get wives. The sons proceed to Nafai's and Issib's mother, Rasa, who is attempting to keep order within the city. However Hushidh, a raveler under Rasa's care, makes the disastrous mistake of severing the ties between Rashgallivak and his men, leading to widespread riots across the city.\n\nAt the same time, General Moozh, leader of the \"Wetheads\" nation (Gorayni), is attempting to conquer cities around Basilica. He sees a strategic chance, and taking only 1000 soldiers, marches across the desert to conquer the city. He arrives in time to help the local city guard quell the uprising, and slowly begins taking control of its affairs.\n\nThe remainder of the book deals with Nafai and his brothers' (Elemak and Mebbekew, who had come) attempts at finding wives. In the end, they are all forced into a house arrest along with Rasa, where Elemak takes Eiadh as his wife, Mebbekew takes Dol, Nafai takes Luet, the waterseer, with Rasa and Hushidh deciding to come as wives for Volemak and Issib, respectively. Shedemei (a Basilican geneticist) is dragged along with enough plants and animals to populate the future earth with new species, also as a wife to Zdorab.\n\nThe ending comes when Moozh decides to marry Hushidh to politically tie himself with the city. Hushidh's original mother arrives to stop the ceremony, since Hushidh is actually the daughter of Moozh. Nafai's party is escorted out of the city with the women and supplies for the camp.\n\nMoozh ends up conquering the \"Wetheads\" he had been working for, while his Basilican second-in-command defends the city against the rival nation, Potokgavan. In the end he is killed during an invasion and Basilica falls, scattering the citizens to various other nations and cities on Harmony. Earlier in the book, the Oversoul had revealed the purpose of this dispersal was to force people with a strong connection to it to breed with people who had a weak connection, and so delay the eventual time when the Oversoul loses control of the people of Harmony.\n\nThe characters listed here are those whose primary role is in \"The Call of Earth.\" For other characters, see Homecoming Saga.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1906335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906335", "title": "United States Department of Justice War Division", "text": "United States Department of Justice War Division\n\nThe United States Department of Justice War Division was a subdivision of the United States Department of Justice (DoJ) that was created on May 19, 1942 during World War II.\n\nThe purpose of the War Division was to combine several war-related activities spread across the Department. It consisted initially of the Special War Policies Unit, the Alien Property Unit, and the Alien Enemy Control Unit. The War Division later included the War Frauds Unit, which originated as the Economic Section of the Antitrust Division. \n\nWith the end of the war, the War Division was abolished on December 28, 1945.\n"}
{"id": "1906339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906339", "title": "Ultra Products", "text": "Ultra Products\n\nUltra Products, a division of the Systemax group of companies, is a US-based computer parts manufacturer, importer and distributor.\n\nThe company's main focus is on PC accessories, and offers computer memory, computer cases and power supplies, custom cooling solutions and uninterruptible power supplies.\n\nThe company attracted attention in PC publications when they produced the first modular computer power supply, the Ultra X-Connect.\n\nThe history of Ultra Products dates back to 1991 with the Fletcher, Ohio based PC builder, MidWest Micro. Ultra was the brand name for MidWest Micro's white-box personal and laptop computers sold through their Infotel computer product distribution division. In late 1997, Global Industrial Products purchased Infotel and the MidWest Micro and continued to sell product under the Ultra brand name. In 1999, Global changed its name to Systemax and Global Industrial became a division of the Systemax corporation. The Ultra Products brand name was expanded to include LCD monitors.\n\nIn 2002, Systemax was an exclusive U.S. importer of Chieftec brand computer cases. The cases were used for Systemax builds and to DIY users through Systemax's Tiger Direct retail outlet, but in order to move the quantity of product required to import to maintain exclusive distribution rights, Systemax would have to sell to other retails; retailers in direct competition with Tiger Direct. So later in 2002 ChieftecUSA was born.\n\nIn 2003, Tiger Direct used the Ultra brand to sell computer memory and low-end graphics cards. By mid-2003, the product line expanded to light kits, hard drive, memory and CPU coolers and flash memory card readers. This proved to be successful and the decision was made to put the brand out into the retail channel. It was determined to use the existing ChieftecUSA channels to distribute product, so in late 2003 ChieftecUSA became Ultra Products and could not only be purchased at Tiger Direct, but also Fry's Electronics, Micro Center as well as a number of other retail and mail order computer components dealers.\n\nAlthough technical support is often handled through the Fletcher, Ohio facility, a number of support issues are actually still handled in the Tiger Direct call center in Miami, Florida.\n\nIn November 2006, Ultra Products received United States Patent Number 7,133,293 for the modular interface Ultra uses on its X-Connect line of power supplies. The patent was filed for in September 2004.\n\nIn August 2007, the technical support forums at Ultra Product's website was closed and a statement that they were \"under construction\" was made on the portal page, yet the link to the forums had been completely removed from the main page's navigation.\n\nOn April 4, 2008, Ultra Products filed a complaint against Antec, Inc., Channel Well Technology Co. Ltd., Channel Well Technology Co. U.S.A., Inc., Corsair Memory, Inc., Enhance Electronics Co. Ltd., E-Power Technology/PCMCIS, SPI Electronic Co. Ltd., FSP Group USA Corp., Koolance USA, Mushkin, Inc., OCZ Technology, Sea Sonic Electronics Co. Ltd., Silverstone Technology, Inc., Spire-Bytecom Fanner Corporation, Tagan Technology Co. Ltd., Tagan Technology Co., Thermaltake Technology Co. Ltd., Thermaltake, Inc., Topower Computer Industrial Co. Ltd., Topower Computer U.S.A., Inc., Zalman Technology Company Ltd. and Zalman USA, Inc. for patent infringement claiming that the defendant's modular power supply product infringed on the patent Ultra filed for back in 2004.\n"}
{"id": "1906341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906341", "title": "History of Norfolk", "text": "History of Norfolk\n\nNorfolk is a rural county in the East of England. Knowledge of prehistoric Norfolk is limited by a lack of evidence — although the earliest finds are from the end of the Lower Paleolithic period. Communities have existed in Norfolk since the last Ice Age and tools, coins and hoards such as those found at Snettisham indicate the presence of an extensive and industrious population.\n\nThe Iceni tribe inhabited the region prior to the Roman conquest of Britain in 43 AD, after which they built roads, forts, villas and towns. Boudica's rebellion in 60 AD, caused by the imposition of direct rule by the Romans, was followed by order and peace, which lasted until the Roman armies left Britain in 410 AD. The subsequent arrival of the Anglo-Saxons caused the loss of much Roman and British culture in Norfolk. It is known from external evidence from excavations and place-names that by c. 800 AD all Norfolk had been settled and the first towns had emerged. Norfolk was the northern half of the Kingdom of East Anglia and was ruled by the Anglo-Saxon Wuffing dynasty. Our knowledge of several Wuffings is scant, as few historical documents of the period have survived.\n\nUnder the Normans, Norwich emerged as the hub of the region. With steady growth and strong overseas links it became an important mediaeval city, but it suffered from internal tensions, unsanitary conditions and disastrous fires. Mediaeval Norfolk was the mostly densely populated and the most productive agricultural region in the country. Land was cultivated intensively and the wool trade was sustained by huge flocks. Other industries such as peat extraction were important. Norfolk was a prosperous county and possessed a wealth of monastic establishments and parish churches.\n\nThe name \"\"Norfolk\"\" derives from terms which meant \"the northern people\". It is first mentioned in Anglo-Saxon wills dating from 1043–5 and later as \"Norðfolc\" in the \"Anglo-Saxon Chronicle\" (the entry for 1075) and as \"Nordfolc\" in the Domesday Book.\n\nLower Paleolithic(2,500,000 to 300,000 BCE)\n\nIn 2005 it was discovered that Norfolk contained one of the earliest finds of European man. The find revealed flint tools, similar to those found on the Suffolk coast at Pakefield which were dated at around 668,000 BCE and a find at Happisburgh in the \"\"Cromer Forest Bed\"\" has been dated as being 550,000 years old and has given us flints, bones and the oldest hand axe to be found in north-west Europe.\n\nMiddle Paleolithic(300,000 to 30,000 BCE)\nIn 2002 there was a major discovery of one of the most important sites of Neanderthal man, dated to around 58,000 BCE, in the Thetford Forest at Lynford. David Miles the chief archaeologist at English Heritage said: \"It is extremely rare to find any evidence of Neanderthals and even rarer to find it in association with mammoth remains. We may have discovered a butchery site, or what would be even more exciting, first evidence in Britain of a Neanderthal hunting site which would tell us much about their organisational and social abilities.\" \n\nThe site was found to contain organic material and a Mousterian hand axe was found in a good state of preservation. A further 30 Mousterian hand axes were found along with reindeer bones covered in cut marks. The animal remains have revealed the presence of woolly mammoths, woolly rhinoceros, brown bears, spotted hyenas and other smaller remains such as fish jaws, frog bones and several types of mollusc. Although the site contains such exotic animals the temperatures were still below those felt today as Norfolk was still in the clutches of the remnants of an Ice-Age. The average temperature in July has been estimated as 13 °C and the area would have been below freezing for most of the winter months. From plant and insect remains it has been deduced that the area was marshy and covered with small areas of open still water similar to the modern day broads.\n\nUpper Paleolithic(40,000 to 10,000 BCE)\nDuring the last Ice age, reaching its greatest extent between 22,000 and 17,000 years ago, the so-called Last Glacial Maximum (LGM)the whole of Britain was either ice sheet or polar desert thus wiping out the entire gene pool. The return of pioneer groups, evidenced by the so-called Creswellian culture, began about 15,000 years ago.\n\nNeolithic and Chalcolithic(9500 to 3000 BCE)\n\nThis period covers the stages of change from the pottery of the stoneage into the age of metals. The \"Chalcolithic Age\" is the start of the \"Copper Age\" and marks the end of the time when people could only work mainly single element metals such as silver, tin, copper and gold. The Copper Age precedes the \"Bronze Age\" when metallurgy developed into a science capable of amalgamating metals into bronze and other compounds.\n\nNorfolk was a centre of metalworking and by the Late Bronze Age northern Norfolk had developed into a major area of production. There were also throwbacks to the earlier ages and one such type were the monuments. A significant find was discovered in 1998 between the high and low tidal limits off the north west coast of Norfolk at Holme-next-the-Sea. A ring of timbers was found and within it an upturned tree stump with its roots above the sand. The remains were excavated in 1999 and the samples taken dated it to 2049 BCE.\n\nA find at Sutton (near Stalham) on 7 July 1875 revealed a copper alloy shield buried under peat lying on, and covered by, white sand. There have been numerous finds from all periods of the Bronze Age but amongst the most notable were a find of 141 axes heads at Foulsham and pottery including collared urns from the Witton Wood barrow.\n\nGrimes Graves is a large and well-preserved group of Neolithic flint mines at a site near Brandon, consisting of 400 pits. It was first named \"Grim’s Graves\" by the Anglo-Saxons and was first excavated in 1870 when the pits were first identified as mines dug over 5,000 years ago.\n\nThere is evidence that much of Norfolk was intensively farmed by people during the Late Iron Age. The \"Cenimagni\" tribe who submitted to Caesar in 54 BCE were settled in both lowland and upland Norfolk by this time. They may have been centred in north-west Norfolk, where hoards of coins and torcs have been discovered such as that found at Snettisham. Coins found in the south of the county indicate that the Iceni tribe may have been centred around Thetford by the mid-1st century AD.\n\nNorfolk's coastline is markedly different from the coastline that existed when the Romans first occupied what is now the county of Norfolk. The northern coast of Norfolk has eroded over the last two millennia, parts of it perhaps having retreated by up to . The eastern coast was dominated by an enormous estuary, the island of Flegg and a peninsula (modern Lothingland). The Wash was much larger in size and the area now known as the Fens was impenetrable marsh containing isolated islands surrounded by water. The River Waveney between Norfolk and Suffolk was at that time a substantial feature.\nAfter the Romans conquered Britain in 43 AD, forts and roads were constructed around Norfolk as the Roman army became established. Major Roman roads in the county included the Peddars Way and Pye Road. After a minor rebellion by the Iceni in 47 AD king Prasutagus was allowed to rule independently as a client king. On his death in 60 AD Roman rule was imposed on the territory and his widow Boudica was not allowed to succeed him as Roman law only allowed male heirs to claim a client king's title. After Boudica was humiliated and her daughters raped she led a rebellion in which the towns of Colchester (\"Camulodunum\"), London (\"Londinium\") and St. Albans (\"Verulamium\") were sacked.\n\nFollowing the defeat of Boudicca the Romans restored order on the region by establishing an administrative centre at \"Venta Icenorum\" (the present Caistor St. Edmund), a small town built at Brampton and other settlements which were developed at river crossings or road junctions. The mostly rural population lived in scattered homesteads, villages or more affluent Roman villas. The level of the sea fell during Roman times and the swamps in the west of Norfolk slowly dried out. The land was then able to be converted into fertile farmland where sheep-rearing and salt production could be established.\n\nThe Saxon Shore forts were built by the Romans in the 3rd century AD as a defence against overseas raiders. In Norfolk the ruins of the forts built at Burgh Castle (Roman \"Gariannonum\"), guarding the estuary across from the island of Flegg, still exist, but there is now little remaining of the forts at Brancaster (\"Branodunum\") built on the north coast, and at Caister-on-Sea, on the east coast and near Burgh Castle. After the last of the armies of Rome had left in 410 AD most of the visible remains of Roman Britain slowly disappeared.\n\nAfter 410 AD, tribes arrived from north-west Europe and intermingled with the Romano-Britons already living in the Norfolk region. The new culture of the Anglo-Saxons replaced the culture of the Romans and ancient Britons (so that for instance there are now few place-names in Norfolk that pre-date the Anglo-Saxon period). The first written record of most of the place names in the county is the 11th-century Domesday Book, but these names will have existed much earlier. Places with names ending in \"-ham\" in Norfolk (but not those ending \"-ingham\") are generally sited favourably by rivers or near fertile soil and grew in importance from large vills into the county's modern market towns. Comparitavely less important settlements tended to end with the suffixes \"-ton\", \"-wick\" or \"-stead\".\n\nExcavations and place-name evidence indicates that the early Anglo-Saxons (pre-800 AD) seem to have occupied the south and south-west of Norfolk most densely, with settlements concentrated along river systems. A settlement and a cemetery at Spong Hill, containing both graves and inhumation pots, is an example of one of the few early Saxon sites to have been found in Norfolk. During the 7th century East Anglia adopted Christianity and the custom of burying grave goods, found at numerous sites, eventually ceased. Evidence of early Anglo-Saxon settlement exists in the form of Ipswich ware pottery and coins (\"sceattas\") that are unique to the period.\nThe Saxons eventually settled evenly over the uplands and lowlands of Norfolk. By 850 AD the majority of the county's current pre-Danish placenames had been created, although only two names – \"Deorham\" (modern West Dereham) and \"Cnobheresburgh\" (the site of an unidentified monastery on the east coast) – exist in early Anglo-Saxon documents, Evidence of the importance of the emerging trade settlements of Thetford and Norwich is still being discovered. Numerous other sites in the county have revealed evidence of Saxon settlement, for instance at North Elmham (where there is evidence of timber buildings and roadways), or at Bawsey (with finds of pottery, coins and metalwork). Six late Anglo-Saxon silver brooches were discovered at Pentney in 1978, that may have belonged to a local maker or dealer.\n\nNorfolk was part of the kingdom of the East Angles during much of the Anglo-Saxon period. Its history is largely obscure: much information is based on mediaeval chronicles and often cannot be verified. The history of Norfolk, the northern half of the kingdom, cannot be distinguished from the rest of East Anglia during this period.\n\nEast Anglia was first ruled by semi-historical kings from the Wuffings dynasty, who, according to the 9th-century \"Historia Brittonum\" of Nennius, descended to Wuffa of East Anglia from Wōden. In the \"Anglo-Saxon Chronicle\", the most important historical source for the Anglo-Saxon period, only Rædwald of East Anglia and his successors Eorpwald, Anna, Æthelberht and Edmund the Martyr are mentioned. An important source of information is Bede's \"Historia ecclesiastica gentis Anglorum\", which describes events during the reigns of several East Anglian kings, including Raedwald, the first king who is known by more than a name.\n\nThe only surviving lists of the kings of East Anglia are those written by mediaeval sources, such as William of Malmesbury. Nothing is known about any of the kings from 664 to 747, after which the succession and genealogy of the kings of East Anglia after this time is uncertain. The Vikings attacked Norfolk in 865 and four years later killed Edmund, the last king of the East Angles. Villages on the former island of Flegg with names such as Scratby, Hemsby and Filby provide evidence of Viking settlement: other place-names of Viking origin are scattered around Norfolk. Viking settlement is thought to have stimulated the growth of towns such as Norwich and Thetford. After Edward the Elder conquered East Anglia and ended Viking domination in c. 917, the region was absorbed into the kingdom of England.\n\nAt the time of the Norman Conquest, Norfolk formed part of the earldom of Harold I of England and offered no active resistance to William the Conqueror, who bestowed the earldom of East Anglia on Ralph de Gael. After the Revolt of the Earls in 1075, Earl Ralph's estates were forfeited and passed to Roger Bigod.\n\nThe arrival of the Normans in 1066 led to the destruction of much of Anglo-Saxon Norwich. After Ralph de Gael rebelled against the king, a large part of the town was burned by the Normans in retribution. They then started to develop Norwich into a prosperous international port and a centre of Norman power. Norwich Castle was built by 1075. It was of a motte and bailey type and was rebuilt in stone before 1200. Work on the cathedral precinct started in 1096. Within it was built a cathedral church, a fortified bishop's palace and other monastic buildings. The formation of the precinct turned a large part of the town into an unpopulated area of quarry pits and building yards.\nEarly mediaeval Norwich grew into a cosmopolitan city and expanded around the waterfront and westwards along St. Benedict's Street. During the 12th century there was a thriving Jewish community, but it was unpopular with the Christian population. In 1144 the Jews were accused of the ritual murder of a young boy named William, who was subsequently canonized. Their synagogue was destroyed in 1286 and four years later all the Jews in England were expelled from the country (\"see Edict of Expulsion\").\n\nTensions between the cathedral priory and the citizens of Norwich (in part over the jurisdiction of land in the city) culminated in the Riot of 1272, in which thirteen members of the priory were murdered and the precinct gates and St. Ethelbert's Church were destroyed. As punishment, the main anarchists were put to death and the city lost its liberties and was forced to pay for the building of a new gate for the priory.\n\nBetween 1297 and 1344 a new defensive wall was constructed on the huge banks that surrounded the city, replacing the earlier palisade and gates. The area enclosed was the largest for any city in England, although inside was a considerable amount of pasture land, which was slowly absorbed as new monastic settlements, houses, markets and industrial sites appeared. By 1400 Norwich had grown to become a major city of perhaps 10,000 inhabitants.\n\nThe Black Death may have killed two fifths of the population of the city. It led to efforts to improve the unsanitary conditions, but these had little impact. Immigration from the surrounding countryside soon restored pre-plague numbers, partly as a result of the growing textiles industry. Growing civic wealth and pride was reflected in new large buildings such as the Guildhall, built from 1407 to 1453. During the later mediaeval period, Norwich's fortunes declined. Both the fires of 1412 and 1413 (which destroyed many of the city's buildings) and the Wars of the Roses, contributed to its decline. The period is characterised by a growing gap between the wealthy and the poor of Norwich.\n\nIn the 14th century Norfolk was the most densely populated and most intensively farmed region in England. The land was predominantly arable, much more so than in previous centuries. Where land could not be ploughed easily, it was managed as pasture. The woodlands of much of Norfolk were cleared during mediaeval times. The soils of the county were variously light, heavy and – most valuably – moderate. The moderately heavy soils were concentrated in central and eastern parts. Crops grown included barley (for making beer), rye, oats and peas. Horses were introduced sooner in Norfolk than elsewhere and crop rotation helped to intensify cultivation. Manorial records show that the types of crops cultivated and animals stocked depended on access to markets, labour supply, freedom from communal controls and transport costs, as well as soil type. In comparison to its arable land, Norfolk's pastures and meadows were less productive.\nAs with the rest of the country, the Church was central to mediaeval life in Norfolk. Far more mediaeval parish churches were built than in any other county in England – Norwich alone once had sixty-two churches. Over time the numbers have slowly declined, due to depopulation, competition or local reorganisation. Many new monastic communities were established during the Middle Ages. Extensive remains of several religious houses can be seen around Norfolk, such as at North Creake, Binham, Little Walsingham, Castle Acre and Thetford Priory.\nOver twenty castles were built in Norfolk during the Middle Ages, the most impressive being Norwich Castle, built soon after the Norman Conquest. Many castles, such as those at Great Yarmouth and Lynn, no longer exist: most early castles were small in size and would have been timber-built. The remains of stone castles in Norfolk include those at Castle Rising, Castle Acre and Buckenham: numerous examples of earthwork remains still exist. \n\nThe Norfolk Broads owe their existence to the large-scale extraction of peat and clay during the Middle Ages. They were once deep pits, up to in depth, from which an enormous amount of peat was dug over a period of centuries. Peat extraction may have begun during the Anglo-Saxon period, but the first evidence of the industry in Norfolk is from mediaeval abbey records. John of Oxnead is the first chronicler to record the major floods that recurred during this period, as the sea breached the vulnerable east coast and devastated the land. As a result of flooding, the extraction of peat declined and the records change from peat-digging accounts to descriptions of fen, marsh, fisheries and the importing of sea-coal from the north-east of England. Over a long period the battle to obtain peat and clay from the pits was steadily lost, as they become water-logged and then permanently flooded and all memory of the origin of the new 'broads' was lost.\n\nIn the wars between King John and his barons Roger Bigod garrisoned Norwich Castle against the king, who in 1216 on his retreat from Lynn lost his baggage in The Wash.\n\nNorfolk returned members to parliament in 1290, and in 1298 the county and the boroughs of Kings Lynn, Norwich and Great Yarmouth returned each two members.\n\nThe story of Julian of Norwich (1342 – c. 1429) also dates to this period. She is noted as being the first woman to have written a book in English.\n\nThe Battle of North Walsham occurred on 25 or 26 June 1381. It marked the end of military resistance in Norfolk during the Peasants' Revolt. The rebels led by the 'King of the Commons' Geoffrey Litster were defeated by a force led by Henry le Despenser, Bishop of Norwich: the site is one of only five known battlefields in Norfolk.\n\nAnother legend from Norfolk dating to this period is the Pedlar of Swaffham. The legacy of this tale can be seen to this day in the choir area of the church. Here stand two wooden pews. One has the carvings of a pedlar and his dog, the other of a woman looking over the door of a shop.\n\nAfter the enclosures of local landowners around Norfolk were destroyed, thousands of people joined Robert Kett in a march on Norwich, forming a large organised camp at Mousehold Heath in July 1549. The rebellion was largely in response to the enclosure of land, the theft of common resources, and the general abuses of power by the nobility. After a failed attempt by the authorities to disperse them on the offer of a general pardon, Norwich's city gates were shut to the rebels, who nevertheless managed to breach the defences and occupy the city. In London, the government responded to the crisis by sending the Marquess of Northampton to regain Norwich, who initially entered the city unopposed, but was forced by the rebels to withdraw with his army to Cambridge.\n\nFrom this point, Kett was less successful. He failed in an attempt to spread the rebellion to Great Yarmouth. The Earl of Warwick reached Norwich and gained entry to the city with a large force. Although outnumbered, Kett's men rejected an offer of pardon and after bloody street fighting they were forced to return to Mousehold Heath. Kett made an attempt to recapture the city, but the arrival of mercenaries in support of Warwick forced him to abandon the camp. In a bloody pitched battle outside the city on 27 August 1549, the rebels were routed and Kett was captured. He was later convicted of treason and hanged from the walls of Norwich Castle.\n\nThe county supported Parliament during the English Civil War, although there was a strong element of Royalist support. The defences of Norwich and the main ports were strengthened and in December 1642 the Eastern Association was formed to place the region on a war footing, but little blood was shed in Norfolk, which was held by Parliament throughout the war. In September 1643, an anti-Papist mob caused considerable damage to Norwich Cathedral, which was occupied by troops the following year. According to Joseph Hall,\n\"\"In a kind of sacrilegious and profane procession all the organ pipes, vestments, both copes, together with the wooden cross which had been newly sawn down from over the Green Yard pulpit, and the service books and singing books that could be had, were carried to the fire in the public market place. Near the public cross all these monuments of idolatry must be sacrificed to the fire...\"\" \nThe only serious fighting in Norfolk during the civil war was at King's Lynn, where Royalist sympathies were strongest. In April 1643 Parliament investigated King's Lynn and ordered the detention of the town's prominent Royalists. That August, on the assurance that Royalist forces would soon arrive, the town declared openly for the King. It was besieged by the Earl of Manchester and suffered damage from bombardment, but Parliament's attempts to raise sufficient forces was beset by difficulties and the town surrendered only after Manchester declared that on 16 September he would storm the defences. Any Royalist hopes of assisting the King in Norfolk ended.\n\nIn 1646 a series of events began that would lead to one of the Norfolk's most noteworthy disasters. Tension had been growing in the county due to rising taxation in the face of rising grain prices, coupled with increasing amounts of interference by the central government in county affairs. This led to numerous acts of resistance across the county in 1646, including rioting in Norfolk and King's Lynn. The county's largest city, Norwich, was divided between supporters of the traditional culture and Puritans. In 1647 the city's citizens elected John Utting, an act that angered local Puritans, who managed to obtain orders for him to be detained in London. Although some historians refer to Utting as a royalist, Scott E. Hendrix argues that the situation was more complicated than that. In his 2012 study of events in the county, he argues that Utting was a supporter of traditional culture rather than a supporter of the king, which included good fellowship in taverns, plays, and other traditional forms of entertainment. Furthermore, he saw no reason to ban traditional holidays, such as Christmas, a move supported by many of the city's apprentices, though it infuriated Norwich's Puritans. When a Parliamentary representative attempted to arrest Utting, the situation became literally explosive. On 24 April 1648 angry townsfolk in Norwich rioted and attacked the homes of prominent Puritans. The news of the arrival of troops to restore order incensed the people and in their search for arms they stormed the County Committee headquarters. There followed a period of great confusion, during which time rioters attached the homes of leading Puritan aldermen and that of Sheriff Thomas Ashwell. A small contingent of Parliamentary troops arrived and managed to gain entry into the city, leading to running battles along St. Stephens street. During this confused period, rioters who had taken possession of the armory contained in the Royalist Committee House on Bethel Street accidentally ignited the barrels of black powder stored there, leading to a tremendous explosion causing immense destruction to the city and great loss of life. This explosion came to be known as \"The Great Blow,\" bringing the rioting in the city to an abrupt standstill.\n\n1785 and 1786 saw the first aviation activity in the county of Norfolk, when several manned gas balloon flights were made from Quantrell's Gardens in Norwich.\n\nIn the middle of the 19th century, over a hundred Norfolk families owned estates greater than in size, and there were numerous smaller landowners in the county. After 1875, a long depression in English agriculture and industry set in, which reduced estate incomes and put severe pressure on their owners, a situation made worse by the accumulation of debts due to family settlements or extravagant expenditure, often sustained over generations, and the introduction of Death Duties in 1894. Endebted landowners were forced to sell their possessions, let their estates for shooting, reduce staff levels or take up residence elsewhere. Estates became neglected as their owners strived to save money and many estates disappeared as farms, parks and woodland were sold off and halls were left to decay. After 1880 many larger estates changed hands, were broken up or reduced in size as land was acquired by farmers and businessmen from outside the county. A housing boon during the 1890s driven by a dramatic increase in Norfolk's population enabled some landowners on the outskirts of towns and coastal resorts to profit from the sale of their land.\n\nThe First World War was significant to the county of Norfolk in a number of ways. Large numbers of men of fighting age were called up to join local regiments that were sent to fight in France, virtually every Norfolk village has a war memorial that records the names of those who lost their lives.\n\nThe war was the first time that significant aviation activity spread throughout the county with a large number of aerodromes and landing grounds being built. Significantly Pulham Market in the south of the county was one of the few locations where airships were stationed. Boulton and Paul in Norwich and Savages of Kings Lynn were both involved in aircraft production each company producing many hundreds of aircraft for the war effort, Boulton and Paul exists to the present time as a joinery company and remained in aviation as late as the 1960s.\n\nAs well as Boulton and Paul, the firm of Lawrence Scott & Electromotors was also involved in the war effort, providing shells as well as electrical motors and other components for the Navy.\n\nThe county was one of the first places on earth bombed from the air when German Zeppelin airships raided the county a number of times. Late in the war Zeppelin L70 was shot down off the Norfolk Coast by Major Egbert Cadbury of the Royal Air Force, on board the doomed Zeppelin was Fregatenkapitan Peter Strasser, commander of the German Naval Airship Service, all on board were killed, a number of the men being buried in churchyards along the coast.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1906344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906344", "title": "WNYE-TV", "text": "WNYE-TV\n\nWNYE-TV, virtual channel 25 (UHF digital channel 24), is a non-commercial independent television station licensed to New York, New York, United States. The station is operated by NYC Media, a division of the Mayor's Office of Media and Entertainment, and is sister to public radio station WNYE (91.5 FM). The two stations share studios at the City University of New York's Graduate Center in midtown Manhattan; WNYE-TV's transmitter is located at the Condé Nast Building.\n\nWNYE-TV operates on New York City's original educational television allocation, one of ten awarded by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) in 1952 to the University of the State of New York, the state's overall educational governing body. After initial plans to build a statewide network were abandoned, the construction permits were transferred to local educational interests; channel 25 was reassigned to the City's Board (now Department) of Education, operators of WNYE radio.\n\nHowever, it was obvious soon after the FCC opened up the UHF band that a UHF station would not be nearly strong enough to cover a market that had grown to take in large swaths of southwestern Connecticut and northern New Jersey, as well as southern upstate New York and Long Island. Moreover, until 1964 UHF stations were usually unviewable without a separate converter. For this reason, in September 1962, Newark, New Jersey-licensed commercial independent WNTA-TV (channel 13) was converted into non-commercial WNDT (now WNET), which would become the New York metropolitan area's main educational outlet.\nThe Board of Education finally put WNYE-TV on the air on April 5, 1967. Originally, it was primarily focused on providing instructional programming that could be used in classrooms, while channel 13 served as the New York area's National Educational Television (NET) outlet. In its early years, channel 25's operational hours were exclusively limited to school hours (roughly from 8:30 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. on weekdays), with limited programming on weekends and during the summer. The operational hours were extended gradually from 1970 onward as the station began to add programming from the Public Broadcasting Service (PBS) to its schedule.\nThe instructional/PBS format carried WNYE-TV through its first three and-a-half decades of service. Along with the instructional shows, channel 25 aired programs that focused on the individual school districts located within the Board of Education, featuring participation from students as well as educators (some of these programs included \"District 2 Schoolvision\", \"District 6 Speaks\", \"District 9 at a Glance\", \"District 10 Presents\" and \"Bronx High School Magazine\"). As the station's on-air hours expanded, leased-time foreign-language programming (from outside producers) was also added to the schedule, and by the mid-1990s, more (second-hand) PBS and other instructional shows replaced the local school district programs. When municipally-owned WNYC-TV (channel 31, now WPXN-TV) was sold by the City of New York in 1996, WNYE-TV picked up that station's long-running series \"Video Music Box\", as well as additional hours of leased-time ethnic programs that were previously aired on WNYC-TV.\n\nIn December 2004, the Department of Education transferred the licenses of the WNYE stations to the New York City Department of Information Technology and Telecommunications. The transfer integrated WNYE-FM-TV's operations with those of the city-owned cable television services CUNY TV and Crosswalks Television Network (now NYC Media), combining them to form the NYC Media Group. A few months prior to the transfer, the NYC Media Group began gradually phasing out WNYE-TV's PBS and instructional programs in favor of locally themed programming. By 2005, the primetime lineup was composed entirely of original productions. In the present day, WNYE-TV's offerings range from shows distributed by American Public Television, various ethnic programs, and a prime time lineup of shows aimed at a young, affluent urban audience. The majority of these offerings are produced in-house by NYC Media, including \"Cool in Your Code\", \"Full Frontal Fashion\" and \"Eat Out NY\". Among other WNYE-related productions, \"Secrets of New York\" has been syndicated nationally to public television stations, and it and \"Blueprint: New York City\" have been offered to the now-defunct digital cable and satellite network (both it and Halogen TV were replaced by Pivot in August 2013), which in turn has provided some programming to WNYE from its library.\nWith the format change, WNYE-TV also moved from its longtime studios at 112 Tillary Street in Downtown Brooklyn, in the now-demolished Klitgord Hall at the New York City College of Technology (a branch of the City University of New York). Both WNYE television and radio (which was housed in Brooklyn Technical High School) now have offices at NYC Media's headquarters in the Manhattan Municipal Building in lower Manhattan and operate from the CUNY Graduate Center at Fifth Avenue and 34th Street.\n\nThe station's digital signal is multiplexed:\n, WNYE-TV broadcasts its main channel in 1080i high definition.\n\nWNYE-TV discontinued regular programming on its analog signal, over UHF channel 25, on June 12, 2009, as part of the federally mandated transition from analog to digital television. The station's digital signal remained on its pre-transition UHF channel 24, using PSIP to display WNYE-TV's virtual channel as 25 on digital television receivers.\n\nNYC Media programming on its flagship channel 25 is focused principally on actuality formats such as lifestyle, documentary and reality entertainment. The show formats range from programs like \"Globe Trekker\", \"VideoFashion News\", and \"Endless Feast\", to NYC Media original programs such as \"Eat Out NY\", \"New York 360*\", and \"Cool in Your Code\" as well as the nationally syndicated show, \"Secrets of New York\". Other popular programs, like \"New York Noise\" and \"The Bridge\" focus on the city's music scene. \"New York Noise\" has a loyal following among musicians. Tommy Ramone was the host of an episode and the show has featured such bands as Fischerspooner, Animal Collective, Cat Power and the National. Well known Indie and electronica stars such as Moby are known to pop in for surprise appearances and performances. Artists like Beirut and groups such as Vampire Weekend and the Plain White T's openly credit their big break to the show and its producer, Shirley Braha. The show is filmed around the city, from longtime clubs like Irving Plaza to the accordion shop Main Squeeze.\n\nBelow is a list of some of the original series on NYC Media:\n\n\nThe once-overlooked station has soared in the ratings with an average 150,000 viewers for its most popular shows, making it one of the most-watched local stations in the New York market. Its success in attracting viewers is largely viewed as having translated into commercial success. NYC Media now has a wide range of sponsors and underwriters supporting the station's shows. Companies such as Subaru, American Express, Delta Air Lines and Snapple, as well as many local establishments, have been active in underwriting NYC Media programs.\n\nIn 2006, NYC Media became the first public broadcaster in the United States to enter into a deal with a major commercial broadcast network, NBC, to air its shows. NYC Media aired weekdays on WNBC and on digital channel 4.4 / 28.4. Continental, Delta, and South African airlines have featured NYC Media on their flights. Carnival Cruise Lines launched an NYC Media closed-circuit channel on its New York-bound cruises in 2006. In that same year, NYC Media programming became available for purchase on DVD.\n\nSince the relaunch of the station, the station's popularity has been reflected in ratings, advertiser support, and press coverage. Despite these successes, the station has come under some degree of criticism from the New York City City Council, and Councilmember Gale Brewer who has called NYC Media \"too hip and flashy.\" Although Brewer's rhetoric has subsided since former General Manager Arick Wierson huddled with Deputy Mayor Ed Skyler and agreed to produce a new news program entitled \"City Scoop,\" Brewer still contends that NYC Media has strayed from its original mission in search of audience share and advertising dollars. On August 4, 2009, the Village Voice published a cover article criticizing the network's founder, Arick Wierson, for his many outside business interests, and his close relationship to the Mayor and other wealthy businessmen.\n\n"}
{"id": "1906353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906353", "title": "Uppsala Student Union", "text": "Uppsala Student Union\n\nUppsala Student Union (\"Uppsala studentkår\") is one of four students' unions at Uppsala University in Uppsala, Sweden.\n\nAccording to Swedish law, university students are no longer required to be members of a students' union since 2010. Uppsala Student Union covers the Disciplinary Domain of Humanities and Social Sciences and the Faculty of Medicine at Uppsala University with the exception of students seated at the University's Gotland campus.\n\nUppsala Student Union was founded in March 1849 by the student nations at the university and was the first Swedish students' union.\n\nThe students' union appoints student representatives to various boards and committees of the university.\n\nUppsala Student Union is a member of the Swedish National Union of Students.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1906358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906358", "title": "Elizur Holyoke", "text": "Elizur Holyoke\n\nElizur Holyoke (1618 1676) of Springfield, Massachusetts was an English colonist, surveyor, soldier, the namesake of the mountain, Mount Holyoke, and indirectly, of the city of Holyoke, Massachusetts.\n\nElizur Holyoke arrived in the Massachusetts Bay Colony from the town of Tamworth in Staffordshire, England in 1637 or 1638 at the age of 20. He and his family settled in Chelsea, Massachusetts, where his father, Edward Holyoke Jr., had a farm. His mother was Prudence Stockton.\n\nOn September 20, 1640, Elizur Holyoke traveled to Springfield, Massachusetts and married Mary Pynchon, daughter of William Pynchon, the founder of Springfield. The Holyoke and Pynchon families appeared to be close friends, dating back to their days in England. Elizur and Mary Pynchon's marriage was the first for the then small community. (2)\n\nIn 1642, Elizur received 10 \"rods\" (Properly interpreted as a rood; commonly, and confusingly, spelled as \"rod.\" A rod is a unit of length, while a rood is the corresponding unit of area. The area given to Elizur was roughly equivalent to 2½ acres (1 hectare), near the present-day location of Chestnut Street in Springfield. In 1643, other desirable lots were given to Elizur by his father-in-law, one being between what is now Worthington and Bridge Streets.\nIn 1647, Elizur was the second largest land owner in Springfield, at . William Pynchon had . After William Pynchon's problems with the General Court of Boston and his eventual retreat to England, William's son John Pynchon and Elizur Holyoke took control of Springfield, and in 1652 Elizur was appointed commissioner to govern the town of Springfield. (2)\n\nIn 1660, after the founding of Hadley and Northampton, a question arose regarding the exact borders of Springfield. The general court of Springfield sent out two surveying parties to explore the surrounding regions. Elizur Holyoke served as head of one of these parties, while Rowland Thomas headed the other party. While Holyoke traversed the east side of the Connecticut River, Thomas explored the west side of the river. Lore holds that the two held a conversation over a narrow part of the river near Hockanum.\n\nIt is commonly stated that Holyoke and Thomas gave their names to the mountains that stood at the end of their paths. Mount Holyoke was named by Elizur Holyoke, while Rowland Thomas named Mount Tom, originally called Mount Thomas, later shortened to Mt. Tom.\n\nIn 1661, Elizur was chosen as Springfield's deputy to the General Court; 1662, he was appointed associate county judge - recorder of all courts; 1663, made the rank of Captain, and was a selectman and deputy to the general court; in 1675, the Holyoke home was destroyed during a raid by Indians led by Wequogan.\n\nDuring the King Philip's War, Capt. Elizur Holyoke was in command of the successful defense of Springfield, until his death in 1676, one account says not due directly to any injury. However, there are other accounts that say he was killed by the Wampanoag Indians on 5 Feb 1676.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1906373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906373", "title": "June 10 (Eastern Orthodox liturgics)", "text": "June 10 (Eastern Orthodox liturgics)\n\nJune 9 - Eastern Orthodox Church calendar - June 11\n\nAll fixed commemorations below celebrated on June 23 by Orthodox Churches on the Old Calendar.\n\nFor June 10th, Orthodox Churches on the Old Calendar commemorate the Saints listed on May 28.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nGreek Sources\nRussian Sources\n"}
{"id": "1906375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906375", "title": "Hamburg America Line", "text": "Hamburg America Line\n\nThe Hamburg-Amerikanische Packetfahrt-Aktien-Gesellschaft (HAPAG), often referred to as Hamburg America Line, was a transatlantic shipping enterprise established in Hamburg, in 1847. Among those involved in its development were prominent citizens such as Albert Ballin (Director General), Adolph Godeffroy, Ferdinand Laeisz, Carl Woermann, August Bolten, and others, and its main financial backers were Berenberg Bank and H. J. Merck & Co. It soon developed into the largest German, and at times the world's largest, shipping company, serving the market created by German immigration to the United States and later immigration from Eastern Europe. On 1 September 1970, after 123 years of independent existence, HAPAG merged with the Bremen-based North German Lloyd to form Hapag-Lloyd AG.\n\nIn the early years, the Hamburg America Line exclusively connected European ports with North American ports, such as Hoboken, New Jersey, or New Orleans, Louisiana. With time, however, the company established lines to all continents. The company built a large ocean liner terminal at Cuxhaven, Germany, in 1900. Connected directly to Hamburg by a dedicated railway line and station, the HAPAG Terminal at Cuxhaven served as the major departure point for German and European immigrants to North America until 1969 when ocean liner travel ceased. Today it serves as a museum and cruise ship terminal.\n\nThe Atlas Service sailed from New York to Jamaica, Haiti, Colombia, Central America. The service was described as a way to \"escape the rigors of Northern winters\" through taking a Caribbean cruise and was promoted to tourists. The ships \"Altai\", \"Sarnia\", \"Sibiria\", \"Alleghany\", \"Alene\", \"Adirondack\", \"Valdivia\", and \"Graecia\" provided this service in 1906.\n\nIn 1858, its liner sank, killing 449 people. In 1891, the cruise of the \"Augusta Victoria\" in the Mediterranean and the Near East from 22 January to 22 March, with 241 passengers including Albert Ballin and wife, is often stated to have been the first passenger cruise. Christian Wilhelm Allers published an illustrated account of it as \"Bakschisch\". In 1897, its steamer \"Arcadia\" was wrecked on the rocks off Newfoundland. In 1900, 1901 and 1903 its liner won the Blue Riband taking the prize from the \"Kaiser Wilhelm der Grosse\". In 1906 \"Prinzessin Victoria Luise\" ran aground off the coast of Jamaica. No lives were lost by the grounding; however, the ship's captain committed suicide after getting all the passengers safely off the ship. In 1912, its liner SS \"Amerika\" was the first ship to warn of icebergs.\n\nHAPAG's general director, Albert Ballin, believed that safety, size, comfort and luxury would always win out over speed. Thus he conceived the three largest liners yet to be built, named the \"Imperator\", \"Vaterland\" and \"Bismarck\".\n\nThe \"Imperator\" and the \"Vaterland\" were briefly in service before the First World War. In 1914, the \"Vaterland\" was caught in port at Hoboken, New Jersey at the outbreak of World War I and interned by the United States. She was seized, renamed \"Leviathan\" after the declaration of war on Germany in 1917, and served for the duration and beyond as a troopship. In 1917, its liner \"Allemannia\" was \"torpedoed by German submarine near Alicante\"; two people were lost.\n\nAfter the war, the \"Vaterland\"/\"Leviathan\" was retained by the Americans as war reparations. In 1919 \"Vaterland\"s sister ships – \"Imperator\" and the unfinished \"Bismarck\" – were handed over to the allies as war reparations to Britain. They were sold to the Cunard Line and White Star Line respectively, and renamed \"Berengaria\" and \"Majestic\".\n\nIn 1939, the HAPAG liner \"St. Louis\" was unable to find a port in Cuba, the United States, or Canada willing to accept the more than 950 Jewish refugees on board and had to return to Europe. On 9 April 1940, when German warships attacked Kristiansand, Norway, during Operation Weserübung (the opening assault of the Norwegian Campaign), the HAPAG freighter \"Seattle\" sailed into the crossfire between the warships and Norwegian coastal artillery. She was holed and sunk, and her crew briefly became prisoners of war.\n\nThe Hamburg America Line lost almost the entirety of its fleet twice, as a result of World Wars I and II. In 1970, the company merged with its longstanding rival, Norddeutscher Lloyd of Bremen, to establish the present-day company Hapag-Lloyd.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1906379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906379", "title": "Blattella asahinai", "text": "Blattella asahinai\n\nThe Asian cockroach (\"Blattella asahinai)\", is a species of cockroach that was first described in 1981 from insects collected on Okinawa Island, Japan. It is a small species of cockroach, and typically are 1.3 to 1.6 cm long and is tan to dark brown in colour with dark parallel stripes on the back of their head. It is commonly mistaken with the German cockroach (\"Blattella germenica\") for their similar appearance. It is commonly found in the United States in and around houses.\n\nThe Asian cockroach is nearly identical to the German cockroach (\"Blattella germanica\") except for a few minor morphological differences. Like the German cockroach, it is about long, is tan to brown in color, and has wings. However, its wings are longer than the German cockroach, and a difference is seen between a groove in the abdomen between the two species. The quickest way to tell the difference between the two species is that the Asian cockroach is a strong flyer (almost like a moth) and is attracted to light, unlike the German cockroach. This species tends to prefer the outdoors, whereas the German cockroach prefers living indoors. The Asian and German Cockroach look identical to the naked eye as they both have tan and dark features as well as two parallel stripes behind the head. The almost identical appearance has caused concerns and issues with the pest management industries when determining the strategies of pest control as pesticides for German cockroaches are not always effective for Asian cockroaches. To differentiate between the two cockroaches with the naked eye, there are noticeable parts of each cockroach. The ventral surface of the left mandible, the vein coloration of the right tegmen, the wing size and venation as well as the setal marginal bristles on the cerci are the slight morphological differences between the Asian and German Cockroach.\n\nThe Asian cockroach was first cited and documented in Okinawa Island, Japan in 1981 by Dr. Takayuki Mizukubo, from the National Institute of Agro-Environmental Sciences. The introduction of the exotic Asian cockroach to the United States was in 1986 in Lakeland, Florida but was first believed to be German cockroach. It was believed that the Asian cockroach came to Florida through the import of goods from Japan. On March 3, 1986, Dr Louis M. Roth received cockroaches of Lakeland, Florida from Dr Philip G. Koehler of Florida Extension Services of the University of Florida for inspection. It was noted that a pest control worker referred to them as \"German cockroaches\" but could fly readily and were common outdoors. The only two species of Blattella present in the United States were the Field cockroach (\"Blattella vaga\") and the German cockroach (\"Blattella germanica\"). Roth was unaware of the species \"Blatella asahinai\" but discovered it and sent several Lakeland specimens to Dr. Mizukubo and he concluded they were \"Blatella asahinai\".\n\nFurther testing was implemented by the Center for Urban and Structural Entomology from Texas A&M University in September 2007 where they tested the two species through an ethological, morphological and genetic approach in order to confirm the presence of the Asian Cockroach in Harris County, Texas. Evaluations of DNA gene sequence were tested which resulted in being similar to the German cockroach. It was evaluated that environmental factors play a significant role in determining the two species although there are slight morphological differences. It was confirmed that Asian Cockroaches were discovered in Harris County, Texas in May 2006 around the Barker Reservoir found in both urban and undeveloped areas. These cockroaches were later cited in Hunter’s Creek subdivision in Houston. The Asian cockroach has since expanded throughout much of Florida and is spreading into other southern states. In addition to Florida, it is reported in Alabama, Georgia, South Carolina, and Texas. In Dothan, Alabama in 2003, there were several reports that stated there were \"flying German cockroaches\" from Alabama Cooperative Extension System agents, where specimens were obtained for identification. Using a male specimen and comparing to the description of Dr. Mizukubo and Dr. Roth confirmed that the specimens were Asian cockroaches. \n\nAsian Cockroaches are predominantly found outdoors in shaded mulched, composted areas where fresh plant litter accumulates as well as in damp areas. Large areas of grass or leaf litter are what the Asian Cockroach gravitates towards. When the Asian Cockroach is happy with the chosen location, they are the dominant cockroach and take over the location where they tend to form hordes of 30,000 to 250,000 cockroaches per acre. Its population reaches its zenith in late August and declines rapidly with the onset of cool weather. Asian Cockroaches are the most active at dusk and are attracted to light-coloured surfaces and bright lights. This means at dusk, the Asian cockroach may fly towards the home and enter through open doors and windows but indoor invasions occur rarely. While in the home, the Asian cockroach is most likely found sitting on the TV screen or near lamps. While other cockroaches carry diseases and bacterium, as of today, research has not suggested that the Asian cockroach carries any pathogens or diseases. Although, they do come into contact with other bacteria due to their habitat preferences being around homes with outdoor pathogens, animal feces, and fungi.\n\nLeaf litter of all kinds is where the Asian cockroach is most commonly found. In the Southern states of America, typical mulch types include cypress, oak leaf litter, pine, rubber, and topsoil. As leaf litter is used as domestic mulching for general purpose landscaping, using this type of mulch can affect how dense indoor populations of the Asian cockroach can be. They are predominantly a nocturnal species of cockroach, although they live and breed outdoors, they are attracted to light sources will find their way into buildings. These can include homes, office buildings, and restaurants. The Asian cockroach stays clear of topsoil and rubber mulch and has very little interaction with cypress mulch. During adverse weather conditions such as cold weather or dry conditions, the Asian cockroach burrows down into the leaf litter.\n\nThe Asian Cockroach is similar to most cockroach species, in that these pests are omnivores and will eat anything they can find. They have been observed to eat human food, pet food, flowers and agricultural crops. Common agricultural crops such as soybeans and cotton are where the Asian cockroaches are found feeding on prey. They have also been sighted feeding on lettuce, cabbage, and strawberries.\nThe Asian Cockroach is the closest discovered relative of the German cockroach, the predominant cockroach pest in America and some parts of the world.\n\nThe Asian cockroach has longer but narrower wings than the German cockroach. It can be observed flying, predominantly its preferred choice of movement especially when disturbed, and to move around compared with the German cockroach, which can be rarely seen flying, merely fluttering its wings ineffectively. The other main difference between the two species is its reaction to light sources, the Asian cockroach is naturally attracted to light compared to the German cockroach which scatters away in the presence of bright light. \n\nAsian cockroaches and Field cockroaches are similar ecologically in comparison to the German cockroach due to both these species breeding outdoors. Both the female Asian and German cockroach carry their egg capsules (oothecae) with them until the eggs hatch but female Asian cockroaches produces fewer oothecae in comparison to the German cockroach, producing approximately four oothecae in their lifetime, each averaging 35 - 40 eggs. Asian Cockroaches have longer initial and subsequent pre-oviposition periods than its German counterpart, and their eggs require slightly longer time to hatch. Asian adult females produce their first egg ootheca approximately 13 days after becoming an adult, and the period from when the ootheca first appeared to hatching is approximately 19 days. The female German cockroach can produce an Ootheca after approximately 8 days after becoming an adult with an incubation period of approximately 17 days. The oothecae of the Asian Cockroach appears slightly smaller than that of the German cockroach as well as once hatched, the Asian Cockroach is notably smaller than the German cockroach at the time of its first instar. The Asian cockroach is most fertile from February to May as well as in August through to September. \n\nShortly after hatching, nymph cockroaches turn from white to brown and their skin hardens. Asian cockroach females requires 60 - 70 days to become an adult, slightly longer than the males. The lifetime of male and female Asian Cockroaches are approximately 50 and 100 days respectively, compared with the German cockroach which lives on average 130 for males and 150 days for females. \n\nAn occasion where an Asian and German cockroach mate with one another is extremely rare due to the behavioural differences of the two species but can occur. On the rare occasion this does occur and produce viable offspring, it has the ability to fly and have the insecticide resistance the German cockroach possesses. \n\nIn 2006, Entomologist Robert Pfannenstiel conducted research on the ecology of predators of crop pests in Texas, in particular the Asian Cockroach. Asian cockroaches ventured west into Texas in 2006, and became the most common predator of bollworm eggs in the state's Rio Grande Valley region. The bollworm threatens cotton, soybean, corn, and tomato crops. \"Helicoverpa zea\" (Boddie) and \"Spodoptera exigua\" (Hubner) are leading predators of soybean crops in Southern Texas. They are part of the Lepidopteran order including butterflies, moths, and skippers. Their eggs were placed on the leaves of soybean crops, without pesticides, and were observed in 3-hour increments over 24 hours to observe both the night and day behaviour of predators towards the pests of the crops. From 2001 to 2005 similar tests were conducted on the predation of Lepidopteran eggs but no observations of the Asian cockroach were found conclude any findings. In 2006, nymph and adult Asian cockroaches were observed feeding on H. zea and S. exigua from both the canopy and leaf litter of the crops and made up 53.7% of all predators feeding on the eggs.\n\nThe Asian Cockroach is a foreign pest during the peak adult populations during summer and spring in Florida which lives in the garden where it is in contact with animal feces, soil-borne pathogens and other disease-causing microorganisms. If the Asian Cockroach enters the home, they may walk upon kitchen tops and pantry, as well as any other commonly used surfaces where they can physically contaminate the food with the pathogens that an individual cockroach may carry. The German cockroach has feces and body parts that can possibly be allergic to humans and the Asian cockroach may possess similar traits and pose the same health issue to these individuals. It is important to take immediate action in the control of the Asian cockroach when found indoors. While the Asian Cockroach has invaded the home, it moves from room to room, following the light source. This may cause the common misconception that the Asian cockroach is trying to attack the person.\n\nAlthough the Asian cockroach prefers to outdoors as its habitat, they are often drawn to houses due to light sources. Restaurants have implemented control measures such as Integrated Pest Management programs (IPM) which target the German cockroach. Due to the similarities to the German cockroach and if proper identification is not made of the Asian species, restaurants and homeowners may use pesticide treatments that are ineffective to the Asian cockroach, exposing the individuals to unnecessary pesticide residues and IPM programs. Indoor cockroach insecticides are generally ineffective in killing the Asian cockroach and will only control the ones that have entered the house but are difficult to contain once penetrating a location. They are fast and nimble, and are difficult to kill on the spot. In order to control and manage the Asian cockroach, garden or outdoor area maintenance of your home of excess mulch and plant debris is an effective approach to reduce further population.\n\nPreventative measures for insects including sealing cracks or crevices in the floor or walls are unnecessary as Asian cockroaches can fly into buildings through open windows or doors. The use of outdoor insecticides offers another option to Asian cockroach management. ß-cyfluthrin and fipronil granules are insecticides that were highly toxic to the Asian cockroach taking on average 20 minutes and 11 hours respectively to kill the cockroach compared to an MotherEarth Exempt Concentrate natural essential oil which can take up to 11.45 days to kill the cockroach. Scatter baits have been purposely developed for the control of the Asian Cockroach and has proven to be effective whereas indoor applications of insecticides have proven to be ineffective to control the population.\n\n"}
{"id": "1906383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906383", "title": "WNJU", "text": "WNJU\n\nWNJU, virtual channel 47 (UHF digital channel 35), is a Telemundo owned-and-operated television station licensed to Linden, New Jersey, United States and serving the New York City television market. It is one of two East Coast flagship stations of the Spanish-language network (alongside WSCV in Miami–Fort Lauderdale, Florida). WNJU is owned by the Telemundo Station Group subsidiary of NBCUniversal (itself a subsidiary of Comcast), as part of a duopoly with New York-licensed NBC flagship WNBC (channel 4). WNJU's studios are located in Fort Lee, New Jersey, and it shares transmitter facilities with WNBC at One World Trade Center.\n\nWNJU-TV signed on the air on May 16, 1965 as the first commercial UHF station in the New York television market (WNYC-TV was the first UHF station to sign on the air in 1961, but it was operated as a non-commercial educational station for its first 35 years of existence despite having a commercial license). The station originally broadcast from the Mosque Theater (now Newark Symphony Hall), located at 1020 Broad Street in Newark, in the former studios of WATV (channel 13). The station was owned by Henry Becton (son of Maxwell Becton, co-founder of Becton Dickinson) and Fairleigh S. Dickinson Jr. (son of Fairleigh S. Dickinson Sr., founder of Fairleigh Dickinson University and also the co-founder of Becton Dickinson). The general manager during WNJU's early years was pioneering UHF broadcaster Edwin Cooperstein. The station's initial schedule featured a mix of English, Asian, Spanish and Italian shows. During the mid-1960s, the station broadcast a live and locally produced teenage dance show called \"Disc-O-Teen\", hosted by John Zacherle; and a folk music program, \"Rainbow Quest\", hosted by Pete Seeger. WNJU was involved in some controversy when it aired bullfights, which some critics believed were too violent. The station was not profitable due to the lack of awareness of UHF stations in the New York metropolitan area. The market had seven VHF stations, six of which were commercial, at a time when most cities had an average of three commercial stations. WNJU already had two strikes against it, and served minority audiences with mostly brokered programming.\n\nWNJU-TV was sold in the fall of 1970 for $8 million (a fairly high price for a UHF station back in 1970) to Screen Gems Broadcasting, a subsidiary of Columbia Pictures. It was thought that WNJU would now become competitive because Screen Gems had deep pockets, but the brokered ethnic format would ultimately continue. It maintained an English-speaking audience a few hours a week during the 1970s when it was the only New York broadcast outlet for the World Wide Wrestling Federation. The station used a logo with WAPA-TV's \"Open 4\" and the same mascot, as it was WAPA-TV's sister station and its affiliate at the time, it is recognized the precursor to today's WAPA America.\n\nBy the late 1970s, WNJU-TV had evolved into mostly Spanish programming, along with some ethnic brokered programs that aired on weekends. During the week, WNJU ran English-speaking religious programming until noon. From 12:00 p.m. onward, the station ran Spanish programming. On Sundays, the station also aired English-language religious programs in the morning. WNJU was sold in 1979 to a consortium led by Jerry Perenchio, Bud Yorkin and Norman Lear. By the early 1980s, much of the other brokered foreign language programming disappeared, with WNJU airing English language religious programming in the morning and Spanish programming the rest of the day. Some brokered programs, including Greek (and Italian in the early-mid 1970s), aired on Sunday afternoons into the early 1990s.\n\nIn 1984, WNJU-TV joined with two Spanish language television stations that were not affiliated with the Spanish International Network (now Univision) and formed NetSpan, the United States' second Spanish-language television network. NetSpan's original group of affiliates included WNJU-TV, KSTS in San Jose, California, and WBBS in Chicago (which aired its programming in the evenings and late nights only); the latter two stations were locally owned. In 1985, KVEA in Corona, California, WSCV in Fort Lauderdale, Florida (both of which were owned by Blair Broadcasting), and locally owned WCIU-TV in Chicago (which aired NetSpan programming after 5 p.m. only) joined NetSpan. The network acquired WNJU-TV and the other stations, except for WCIU, outright in 1986.\nIn 1987, NetSpan added more affiliates, and changed its name to Telemundo. In Chicago, WSNS-TV dropped its Univision affiliation and joined Telemundo, with WCIU carrying Univision programming after 5 p.m. In the early 1990s, WNJU dropped its English-language religious shows and became a full-time Telemundo station.\n\nIn 1989, the station moved its operations to 39 Industrial Avenue in Teterboro. In 2001, General Electric (then-owner of NBC) purchased Telemundo. WNJU witnessed major overhauls, adopting similar opening graphics to those used at New York City's WNBC, and adopting a tweaked version of its opening music sequence. In 2003, WNJU relocated to the Sixth Floor at 2200 Fletcher Avenue in Fort Lee, occupying the former studios and offices of the NBC-owned CNBC cable network, which around the same time moved to a state-of-the-art new studio complex at 900 Sylvan Avenue (Route 9W) in Englewood Cliffs.\n\nIn 2009, WNJU debuted the morning magazine program \"Las Comadres con Gloria B\", which became the No. 1 program in the market in its timeslot, garnering 1.5 million viewers.\n\nOn May 17, 2017, WNJU announced it would begin over-the-air nighttime transmission testing from One World Trade Center in the fourth week of May 2017, which they expected to commence seven to 10 days later, and by the end of the year, WNJU and four other NYC area TV stations began broadcasting from the new tower.\n\nThe station's digital signal is multiplexed:\nOn November 1, 2011, WNJU began broadcasting the soi network on digital subchannel 47.3. A month later, WNJU began broadcasting the Telemundo 2 Network on digital channel 47.2. WNJU also operates a Mobile DTV feed of subchannel 47.1, labelled \"WNJU T47\".\n\nAs of November 2014, WNJU has replaced EXITOS with TeleXitos on 47.2 and soi is no longer on 47.3.\n\nWNJU discontinued regular programming on its analog signal, over UHF channel 47, on June 12, 2009, as part of the federally mandated transition from analog to digital television. The station's digital signal remained on its pre-transition UHF channel 36, using PSIP to display WNJU's virtual channel as 47 on digital television receivers.\n\nOn April 13, 2017, it was revealed that the over-the-air spectrum of sister station WNBC had been sold in the FCC's spectrum reallocation auction, fetching $214 million. WNBC will remain in operation, sharing broadcast spectrum with WNJU. The shared broadcast took effect April 2, 2018. WNJU along with WNBC later changed channels again to digital channel 35 on August 1, 2019 at 1 PM local time.\n\nWNJU presently broadcasts 17 hours of locally produced newscasts each week (with three hours each weekday and one hour each on Saturdays and Sundays); in addition, the station produces a newsmagazine program titled \"Acceso Total\", which airs weekday mornings at 10 a.m. and the public affairs program \"Enfoque New York\" (a local version of the Telemundo discussion program \"Enfoque\"), which airs Sundays at noon.\n\nWNJU launched its news operation in the late 1980s, with 6 p.m. and 11 p.m. newscasts anchored by Jorge L. Ramos In 1997, it launched a weekend edition of \"Noticiero 47\", anchored by Ivan Taylor. In 2001, it launched a morning newscast called \"Noticiero 47 Primera Edicion\", as well as a midday newscast, and the weekend newscast was taken over by Ramon Zayas. However, due to company-wide cutbacks, WNJU pulled the plug on its morning, midday, and weekend newscasts in 2009.\n\nThree years later, in 2012, the weekend newscast was relaunched, and in November 2012, a new morning newscast was introduced, called \"Buenos días, Nueva York\". \"Buenos Días\" expanded to 5 a.m., adding El Pacha from rival WXTV-DT, though it later reverted to its former title of \"Noticiero 47 Primera Edicion\". Gloria Echeverry was also added to the weeknight newscasts as co-anchor, while Yaima Crespo joined the weekend newscasts in that same capacity. Entertainment reporter Odalys Molina was moved to the morning newscast. During that time, the station also received a new helicopter, \"HelicopteroT47\", along with sister station WNBC and rival WXTV-DT. Morning weather anchor Audris Rijo and Rafael Bello now anchor \"Acceso Total\".\n\nOn September 18, 2014, Telemundo announced a new 5:30 p.m./4:30 p.m. newscast for all 14 of its owned-and-operated stations, including WNJU. Additionally, a new daytime newscast debuted November 3, 2014.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1906385", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906385", "title": "Raymond Griffith", "text": "Raymond Griffith\n\nRaymond Griffith (January 23, 1895 – November 25, 1957) was a silent movie comedian. Later in his career, he worked behind the camera as writer and producer.\n\nGriffith was born in Boston, Massachusetts. He lost his voice at an early age, causing him to speak for the rest of his life in a hoarse whisper. Griffith claimed that it was the result of his having to scream at the top of his lungs every night in a stage melodrama as a child actor—others have stated that a childhood disease was more likely the cause.\n\nAlthough a few comedy films of his are considered classics he is almost totally forgotten today. His film debut was for the L-KO Kompany. Many of his starring feature films have long since been lost, but probably the best known of his films today is \"Hands Up!\" (1926), a Civil War comedy feature directed by Clarence G. Badger, and co-starring Mack Swain, which was entered into the National Film Registry in 2005. Also considered a classic is Badger's \"Paths to Paradise,\" a caper film that is in all circulating prints missing its final reel. Like many silent comedians, he had a traditional costume; his was a top hat, white tie and tails, often augmented by a cape and/or walking stick.\n\nThe coming of sound ended Griffith's acting career, but he did have one memorable role in a motion picture before retiring from the screen, playing a French soldier killed by Lew Ayres in the 1930 Lewis Milestone film \"All Quiet on the Western Front.\" He then segued into a writing/producing career at Twentieth Century Fox.\n\nGriffith choked to death at the Masquers Club in Los Angeles, California, aged 62, on November 25, 1957.\n\n"}
{"id": "1906388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906388", "title": "Jami Puustinen", "text": "Jami Puustinen\n\nJami Petteri Puustinen (born 9 January 1987) is a Finnish football player who plays as a striker for FC Haka. Born in Espoo, Puustinen began his career with FC Kasiysi at the age of eight in 1995, before signing for FC Espoo in 2000. After going on trial with Manchester United in July 2003, Puustinen attracted attention from several big European clubs, before signing a three-year contract with United on 29 September 2003. However, Puustinen never made a senior appearance for Manchester United and he was released in January 2006. He then returned to Finland to sign for newly promoted FC Honka. \n\nAfter the 2011 season his contract with Honka expired and he became a free agent. On 21 February 2012 it was announced that Puustinen had signed a 1+1 year contract with fellow Finnish team, FC Haka.\n\nPuustinen was a regular member of the Finland national under-21 football team.\n\n"}
{"id": "1906391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906391", "title": "Gibshill", "text": "Gibshill\n\nGibshill (sometimes spelt as \"Gibbshill\" and often referred to as \"The Gibby\", but also known as \"Spam Island\") is the easternmost housing estate in Greenock and adjoins Port Glasgow, both in the Inverclyde Council Area, Scotland. It is served by Bogston railway station. As of 2012 most of the streets in Gibshill have been regenerated and are opened for the first time since the 1970s, among them East Street and Dalmally Street, with new houses on every street. This has changed \"the Gibby\" from a mainly working class area to a middle class suburb of Greenock with private housing making up two thirds the housing stock.\n\nGibshill is currently undergoing redevelopment. Until recently consisting mostly of tenements, the area has in recent years undergone much demolition. There are no shops in Gibshill since the shopping district's demolition. Large expanses of grass exist where housing once stood. New housing, both council-owned and private sector, is planned to regenerate the area with some already built in Cobham Street, Bell Street (both private) and Shankland Grove (council-owned). New houses are being constructed on Lansbury Street along with 80 to 100 private houses being constructed on the eastern side of Gibshill.\n\nWildlife is now common in the area with many rabbits and deer coming from the nearby moors.\n"}
{"id": "1906396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906396", "title": "Allan V. Cox", "text": "Allan V. Cox\n\nAllan Verne Cox (December 17, 1926 – January 27, 1987) was an American geophysicist. His work on dating geomagnetic reversals, with Richard Doell and Brent Dalrymple, made a major contribution to the theory of plate tectonics. Allan Cox won numerous awards, including the prestigious Vetlesen Prize, and was the president of the American Geophysical Union. He was the author of over a hundred scientific papers, and the author or editor of two books on plate tectonics. On January 27, 1987, Cox died in an apparent suicide.\n\nCox began studying chemistry at the University of California, Berkeley. However, after a single quarter he left school and spent three years in the United States Merchant Marine. He returned to Berkeley, but had so little interest in chemistry that his grades were too low to avoid being drafted into the United States Army. When he returned, he switched his major to geology. His research career in geology began in 1950 when he took a position as a field assistant to Clyde Wahrhaftig studying glaciation in the Alaska Range; the pair later had a long romantic relationship. For his graduate research at the University of California, Berkeley, Cox concentrated on rock magnetism with John Verhoogen as his supervisor. Verhoogen was one of the few geologists of the time who took the hypothesis of continental drift seriously. His stance made a deep impression on Cox.\n\nAfter receiving his Ph.D. in 1959, Cox joined the United States Geological Survey in Menlo Park, California. There he collaborated with another geophysicist, Richard Doell, on rock magnetism. The two were particularly interested in geomagnetic reversals. At the time, very little was known about the timing of reversals. The rock specimens they collected were too young (a few millions of years) to date accurately until the potassium-argon dating method was developed. Cox and Doell arranged for the USGS to hire Brent Dalrymple, a graduate from Berkeley with expertise in this method. The three succeeded in creating the first geomagnetic polarity time scale. This work made possible the first test, by Frederick Vine and Drummond Matthews, of the seafloor spreading hypothesis.\n\nCox was hired as a professor at Stanford University in 1967. He became Dean of the School of Earth Sciences in 1979 and demonstrated a talent for administration that was widely acknowledged by his colleagues.\n\nCox died in a bicycle accident, colliding with a large redwood tree after falling off a cliff on Tunitas Creek road, in the mountains Northwest of Stanford University. The San Mateo County coroner concluded that Cox's death was a suicide. Cox was normally very safety conscious and had exceptionally not worn a helmet on that day. Cox's death came five days after he learned he was going to be charged with child molestation. Cox allegedly had repeatedly molested the son of one of his graduate students. Cox had told the father of the molested child that he would kill himself if the allegations were reported to the police.\n\nCox was elected to the United States National Academy of Sciences, the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, and the American Philosophical Society. In 1969 the American Geophysical Union awarded him the John Adam Fleming medal for research in geomagnetism;. In 1970 he was awarded the prestigious Vetlesen Prize, along with G. Brent Dalrymple, Richard Doell and S. Keith Runcorn, for contributions to geology and geophysics. In 1976 the Geological Society of America awarded him the Arthur L. Day Medal for the application of physics and chemistry to the solution of geologic problems. He was the president of the American Geophysical Union from 1978 to 1980. In 1984 the United States National Academy of Sciences awarded him the Arthur L. Day Prize and Lectureship.\n\nAfter his death, a number of memorials to him were created. The American Geophysical Union had the annual Allan Cox Lecture from 1998 to 2001; this lecture was replaced by the Edward Bullard lecture. The Geological Society of America (Geophysics Division) selects a student each year for the Allan V. Cox Student Research Award; and Stanford University awards the Allan Cox Medal for Faculty Excellence Fostering Undergraduate Research.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1906398", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906398", "title": "Elsa Salazar Cade", "text": "Elsa Salazar Cade\n\nElsa Salazar Cade (born 1952) is an award-winning Mexican American science teacher and entomologist.\n\nElsa received her undergraduate degree in elementary education at the University of Texas at Austin and her master's in public school administration at Niagara University. She is certified for New York State as a school district administrator.\n\nA long time amateur entomologist, with her husband, William H. Cade, she discovered the first case of a parasite using the sexual signal of a host in order to locate and parasitize the host. She also was selected as one of the top ten science teachers in 1995 by the National Science Teachers Association.\n\nThe Cades have done over 30 years of research on the Texas field cricket, \"Gryllus texensis\".\n\nThis research has covered the behavior of the field cricket at different densities and under parasitic pressure from the red eyed fly Ormia. She has helped develop a hands-on instructional program for middle school teachers through support from the National Science Foundation at the University at Buffalo. Elsa used to sit on the board of Science Alberta, a not-for-profit foundation committed to science education and awareness. She also sat for many years on the Fifth on Fifth Youth Foundation. She and her husband have now returned to San Antonio. \nDr. Bill Cade and his wife Elsa received a Generosity of Spirit Award from the Association of Fundraising Professionals, Calgary at a National Philanthropy Day in Nov. 2010 in Calgary. \nElsa Cade, under the name TexMex, spurred the blogosphere to focus on ShelterBox and their urgent need to send shelter and life-saving equipment to Haiti. The blog raised $130,000 to help 1,300 disaster survivors in just a matter of days in March 2010.\n\n"}
{"id": "1906405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906405", "title": "Claire de Duras", "text": "Claire de Duras\n\nClaire, Duchess of Duras (née de Kersaint; 1777–1828) was a French writer best known for her 1823 novel called \"Ourika\", which examines issues of racial and sexual equality, and which inspired the 1969 John Fowles novel \"The French Lieutenant's Woman\".\n\nClaire de Duras left her native France for London during the French Revolution in 1789, and returned to France in 1808 as the Duchess of Duras. She maintained a famous literary salon in post-Revolutionary Paris and was the close friend of Chateaubriand, who she had met while in exile in London, and who helped her to publish her books.\n\n\"Ourika\" was published anonymously in 1823, one of five novels Claire de Duras had written during the previous year; only two of them were published during her lifetime. The three novellas that she did publish were only done so in order to prevent any possible plagiarism.\n\nClaire de Duras treated complex and controversial subjects, primarily dealing with oppressed/marginalized characters. She explored many fundamental principles of the French Revolution, and touched upon the intellectual debates of the Age of Enlightenment, particularly the equality of all men—and women. In holding with these subjects, tragedy is a common theme. For a long time she was seen as the writer of small and unimportant sentimental novels, but recent criticism has revealed her works to be treasure troves of postmodern identity theory.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1906406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906406", "title": "Gods and Generals (video game)", "text": "Gods and Generals (video game)\n\nGods and Generals is a historical first-person shooter video game developed by American studio Anivision Value and published by Activision. The game is based on the film of the same name. The player commands a soldier in the midst of the American Civil War, choosing either to side with the Union or the Confederacy, and plays alongside hordes of other soldiers. The player is tasked with various missions such as raids and reconnaissance, in addition to leading a full army company. In large-scale battles ranging from the Second Battle of Bull Run, the battle of Chancellorsville and the battle of Fredericksburg, players are equipped with muskets, revolvers, sabers and other weapons. This nine-part campaign game uses various scenes from the film.\n\n\"Gods and Generals\" was released on March 1, 2003 as a PC Windows exclusive, and was critically panned by the media and gaming community.\n\n\"Gods and Generals\" was universally panned by critics. It has an aggregate score of 19 based on Metacritic. GameSpot named it the worst game of 2003, describing \"Gods and Generals\" as \"a shoddy afterthought of an unrelated marketing campaign.\"\n"}
{"id": "1906407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906407", "title": "Yanga R. Fernández", "text": "Yanga R. Fernández\n\nYanga (Yan) Roland Fernández (born June 10, 1971) is a Canadian-born American astronomer at the University of Central Florida.\n\nTogether with Scott S. Sheppard, he co-discovered the Carme group, a group of moons of the planet Jupiter.\n\nBorn in Mississauga, Ontario, Yanga grew up in New York City, Minneapolis, Washington, D.C., and went to high school in Ft. Myers, Florida. After undergraduate studies at Caltech, Yan received his Ph.D. at the University of Maryland, College Park in 1999. As a student in 1994, he helped maintain one of the first e-mail lists used by astronomers to communicate news about a fast-breaking event, the impact of Comet Shoemaker-Levy 9 into Jupiter. From 1999 to 2005, he was a postdoctoral fellow at the Institute for Astronomy at the University of Hawaii, then accepted a position as assistant professor at the University of Central Florida. His research focuses on the physical properties and evolution of asteroids and comets.\n\nAsteroid 12225 Yanfernández was named in his honor.\n\n"}
{"id": "1906411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906411", "title": "Mid Auchinleck", "text": "Mid Auchinleck\n\nMid Auchinleck is an area in the town of Port Glasgow, Inverclyde, Scotland.\n\nSituated between the housing estates of Slaemuir and Devol. The area consists of many streets all starting with the letter M. e.g. Methil, Milton, Mallaig and Moidart. At present there are no amenities in the immediate vicitinity.\n"}
{"id": "1906415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906415", "title": "Markus Neumayr", "text": "Markus Neumayr\n\nMarkus Martin Neumayr (born 26 March 1986) is a German-Swiss professional footballer who plays as a midfielder for Aarau in the Swiss Challenge League.\n\nBorn in Hösbach, Neumayr started his football career playing for local clubs before moving to Eintracht Frankfurt in 2003 However, within a few months, he was picked up by Manchester United. During his spell with Manchester United, he played on the right side of midfield, although on some occasions he would play in the middle of the park.\n\nIn the three seasons Neumayr spent at Old Trafford, he never played in a match for the first team. He was once called into the squad on 29 March 2006 for the match against West Ham United but did not make the final sixteen. When David Fox departed to Blackpool, Neumayr took on the role of reserve team captain. With this added responsibility, many believed it would only be a matter of time before he would go on and make the first team. However, this never materialised, and Neumayr was released from the club at his own request at the end of the 2005–06 season, joining Duisburg. After a year with SV Zulte Waregem he signed in summer 2009 for Rot-Weiss Essen.\n\nOn 20 June 2008, Neumayr signed a deal at Belgian First Division club Zulte Waregem. His contract at Duisburg was not renewed, and so he was able to join Zulte Waregem on a free transfer. In January 2009, he returned to Germany, signing for RW Essen. In April 2010 he announced his transfer to Wacker Burghausen for the 2010–11 season., before joining FC Thun the following January. Neumayr joined AC Bellinzona (Swiss Challenge League) in June 2011.\n\nIn January 2016, he signed a one-and-a-half-year contract with FC Luzern. Neumayr became a Swiss citizen in March 2017.\n\nOn 31 July 2018, Neumayr signed for Persian Gulf Pro League club Esteghlal on a two-year contract. On 16 December, Neumayr was released by Esteghlal along with Alhaji Gero, after both players failed to perform well.\n\nOn 31 December 2018, Neumayr joined the Swiss side Aarau.\n\nVaduz\n"}
{"id": "1906417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906417", "title": "Social Democratic Welfare Party", "text": "Social Democratic Welfare Party\n\nThe Social Democratic Welfare Party () was a political party in Latvia. In the 2002 Latvian parliamentary election, the party won 1.4% of the popular vote but no seats.\n"}
{"id": "1906419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906419", "title": "Mario Kart Arcade GP", "text": "Mario Kart Arcade GP\n\nThe initial game, \"Mario Kart Arcade GP\", is noted for being the first \"Mario Kart\" to feature playable crossover characters: Namco's Pac-Man, Ms. Pac-Man, and Blinky. The game's sequel also features Mametchi, a character from the Tamagotchi games, and the third installment includes Don from the \"Taiko no Tatsujin\" franchise.\n\nThe \"Mario Kart Arcade GP\" sub-series started in 2005 with the release of \"Mario Kart Arcade GP\". The game has been followed by three sequels: \"Mario Kart Arcade GP 2\" (2007), \"Mario Kart Arcade GP DX\" (2013), and \"Mario Kart Arcade GP VR\" (2017).\n\nMario Kart Arcade GP is the initial installment in the series. Originally designed for the Triforce arcade board (also used for \"F-Zero AX\") by Namco, players can race as one of eleven characters on twenty-four tracks.\n\nThere are a total of six cups, with four tracks in each, totalling twenty-four. The cups are Mario Cup, Wario Cup, Pac-Man Cup, DK Cup, Bowser Cup, and the unlockable Rainbow Cup. After a track is completed, the player must insert additional credits to continue the game, even if first place is achieved. After finishing all four races from each stage, a \"challenge game\" comes up, in which the player is required to complete a certain task; each of them requires the player to drive to a goal under a certain amount of time while under a certain condition, such as driving backwards through a field of banana peels.\n\nWhen a player hits one of the item boxes scattered throughout the tracks, the player is given one of the three selected items chosen at the start of a race. \"Mario Kart Arcade GP\" features items new and old. Unique to this game is a lock-on feature for the items.\n\nAlso unique to this game is a temporary shield that is produced while powersliding which protects players from items thrown at them by the other racers.\n\nThe game features all eight playable characters from Mario Kart 64, as well as guest characters Pac-Man, Ms. Pac-Man, and Blinky for a total of eleven. Most of the game's sound effects came from \"\" including the pre-race countdown timer to commence racing.\n\nMario Kart Arcade GP 2 is the second game in the \"Mario Kart Arcade GP\" arcade game series released in 2007. The game was the first in the series to be developed and published by Bandai Namco Games. The game used the Triforce arcade system board.\n\nThe game features the \"Nam Cam\" camera features of its predecessor, and 50cc, 100cc, and 150cc difficulty modes, as well as new items. During the races, there is color commentary, which can be toggled on or off at any time prior to starting the race. In the Japanese version of the game, this is done by the prominent Japanese voice actor and on-screen personality Kōichi Yamadera. In the English version, this is done by Justin Berti. All eleven characters from \"Mario Kart Arcade GP\" return, alongside new characters Waluigi from the \"Mario\" series and Mametchi from the \"Tamagotchi\" series. All cups from the first game also appear, with the addition of two new cups, Yoshi Cup and Waluigi Cup.\n\nMario Kart Arcade GP DX is the third \"Mario Kart Arcade GP\" title, which was released in Japanese arcades on July 25, 2013, and in North American and European arcades in 2014 (previously announced for end of 2013), but the game was available in all Dave & Buster's restaurants from February 16, 2014 until April 2014.\n\nThe game features ten redesigned courses, as well as features introduced in \"Mario Kart 7\" such as gliders and underwater racing. Along with Grand Prix and Battle mode, the game introduces two new modes; Alter-Ego and Team. Alter-Ego mode uses online functionality to allow players to race against ghosts records previously set by other players. Team mode allows two players to face against two computer-controlled opponents. The two players can combine their karts to form a more powerful kart, with one player driving and the other serving as the gunner, similar to \"\".\n\nThe racing commentary returns in this game and this time, it is voiced in Japanese by Rica Matsumoto, who also voices Ash Ketchum in the Japanese version of the \"Pokémon\" anime, and in English by Jack Merluzzi, who played in the in-game announcer in \"Fast Racing Neo\".\nMario Kart Arcade GP VR is the fourth \"Mario Kart Arcade GP\" title, which was released in Japanese arcades on July 14, 2017. Unlike the previous games, Mario Kart Arcade GP VR was only released in VR Zone arcades in Japan, Korea, the UK, the Philippines, the US, and France. Unlike prior Mario Kart games, Mario Kart Arcade GP VR is played through use of a virtual reality headset and in first person. The game was developed on a HTC Vive Microsoft Windows arcade system. Similar to the prior arcade Mario Kart games, the game is controlled via a steering wheel and acceleration and brake pedals. In addition, items are thrown by making hand movements, which the game registers by an attachment to the player's wrist. For example, to throw a Green Shell, one must make a throwing motion with their open palm. Also, instead of using Item Boxes, the game uses red, yellow, and green balloons to store items. Gliders are also present, and are used similarly to Mario Kart Arcade GP DX.\n\nEach new game hosts a new selection of characters and often guest characters from featured franchises. The following list displays all available characters for each game.\n\n"}
{"id": "1906425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906425", "title": "Sarbel", "text": "Sarbel\n\nSarbel Michael Maronitis (; ; born 14 May 1983) known professionally as Sarbel, is a British-Cypriot pop singer. He is well known in Cyprus, Greece and parts of the Arab world for his debut single, \"Se Pira Sovara\" [ Greek: 'I've just taken you seriously'] , and his subsequent albums \"Parakseno sinesthima\" ['Strange feeling'] , \"Sahara\" and \"Kati san esena\" ['Something reminiscent of you']. Ηe represented Greece in the Eurovision Song Contest 2007 with \"Yassou Maria\".\n\nSarbel was born and raised in Southgate, London, England, to a Greek Cypriot father, Elias, himself a singer and bouzouki player, and a Lebanese Maronite mother, a lawyer. Sarbel's family made frequent summer trips to Greece and Cyprus. He received a Jesuit education at St Ignatius' College in Enfield. Sarbel studied music (voice), drama, art, and performing arts. From the age of 5 to 16 he performed at the English National Opera and the Royal Opera House Covent Garden and has recorded Tosca in English for Chandos Recordings as the shepherd boy.\n\nHe was named after the Maronite Saint Charbel and his name is correctly pronounced \"\"Sh\"arbel\", but since standard Greek lacks a \"sh\" sound, it is pronounced \"\"S\"arbel\" according to the Greek transliteration (\"Σαρμπέλ\").\n\nSarbel sang yearly at St Ignatius and other talent shows.\n\nAt the age of 18 Sarbel went to Crete, where he sang at the Heraklion Palladium. At the age of 21, still living on the Greek island of Crete, he was signed on by Sony BMG (Greece) on a six-year recording contract.\n\nHe shot into the limelight in 2004, when he recorded the Arabic hit \"Se Pira Sovara\" featuring Greek singer Irini Merkouri, which first introduced the young singer to fans in Greece, but also across the Middle East (especially Cyprus and Lebanon).\nIn July 2006, he released his second album, \"Sahara\". That same year he recorded a duet with Greek singer Natassa Theodoridou called \"Na' Soun Thalassa\" ['Wish you were sea] which was also included as a bonus song on the album. Some of his notable songs are \"Taxe Mou\" ['Promise me'], \"Sahara\" and \"Enas Apo Mas\" ['One of us'].\n\nSeeing his growing popularity, Greek television ERT asked Sarbel to compete for a ticket to represent Greece in the Eurovision Song Contest in Helsinki, Finland. Sarbel had to compete against established singer Christos Dantis and fellow newcomer singer Tamta. Sarbel enlisted the help of popular Greek-Swedish composers Alex Papacostantinou, Marcus Englof, and Mack to write his song, who are responsible for many of popular Greek singer Elena Paparizou's hits. They wrote the song \"Yassou Maria\", which is performed in English with only the word 'yassou' (and the name 'Maria') being Greek. There is also a version released in a mix of Greek and English.\n\nOn 28 February 2007, Sarbel performed the song live against the two singers for the ticket. Although the performance had some sound problems, he went on to receive 39.69% of the combined televotes and jury votes, winning the contest.\n\nIn an interview in March 2007, Sarbel made it clear that he doesn't want an international career by saying \"I don't care either being famous abroad or starting an international career. I only care for Greece. I grew up abroad but choose to live in Greece. I can't tell you whether Eurovision helps my career or not, because I don't know. It's very dangerous. However, it is an experience I want to live. I want to have fun in the Contest and do my best.\".\nFollowing the win, Sarbel toured Europe to promote his song. He also filmed the video clip for the song and changed the scene performance around a bit. The song eventually placed 7th at the Eurovision Song Contest 2007.\n\nOn 12 March 2007, \"Sahara\" was re-released as \"Sahara: Euro Edition\" and feature the \"Yassou Maria\" CD single as a bonus. The CD single for \"Yassou Maria\" was released on 7 March 2007. The CD single includes \"Yassou Maria\", \"Yassou Maria (Greeklish version)\", \"Enas Apo Mas (Special Holiday Mix)\" and a duet with Persian singer Cameron Cartio called \"Mi Chica\" which was recorded in a mixture of Greek, English, Spanish and Persian and is Latin in style with Greek pop elements.\n\nSarbel started singing at Votanikos club in Athens, at 2008, along with Natassa Theodoridou and Nikos Kourkoulis.\n\nThe new single \"Eho Trelathei\" [Greek for 'I have been driven crazy'] was introduced at the Greek National Final 2008 on ERT. It is a blend of oriental elements with the main chorus being rock. This was followed by the release of the album \"Kati san esena\".\n\nTo promote his new album amongst his fellow Londoners, he performed at the two-day Cyprus Wine Festival of London in 2008. Sarbel felt that \"My performance at the Cyprus Wine Festival (in London) is my chance to give something back to my community.\" And both performances brought tears to his friend's and family's eyes that still live in London.\n\nIn July 2009, Sarbel released a two track CD-single titled \"Mou Pai\" under his new signing with E.DI.EL record label. The second track on the CD called \"So Perfect\" is a song written by Sarbel.\nSarbel toured internationally performing alongside Giorgos Mazonakis in Sydney, Melbourne and Adelaide in Australia and other various solo appearances and Egypt.\n\nHis new CD album was released in the Spring of 2011. The first single from this CD Album was the pre-release from the album and was called \"Kafto Kalokairi\" with the initial performance at the Pavilion on the 18 March 2011 in front of a packed house. The release was accompanied by a music video for the single filmed on the popular cruise ship Cristall. The following single was \"Pou Na Girnas\" released in November 2011 and was penned by the famous Greek composer Alexis Serkos. The video clip was released in conjunction with single to launch Sarbel's winter tour of Dubai and the Persian Gulf region.\n\nAfter a successful tour of Dubai, and other Arab countries, Sarbel went back to the studio and recorded a new single \"Proti Ptisi\" [Greek for 'First Flight'] which was released in early 2013 and followed up with a whistlestop tour in Crete, Athens, Beirut and Cyprus. He was also involved in his new Record Company Honeybel Music which produces lounge music predominantly bought and used in Dubai. Sarbel was a special guest as well at the London Eurovision Party which took place in the famous Shadow Lounge in Soho. The event was organised to promote the representatives for this year's Eurovision Song Contest and Sarbel as an earlier contestant was invited to perform by public demand.\n\nAll the albums listed underneath were released and charted in Greece and Cyprus.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1906426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906426", "title": "Social Democratic Party (Latvia)", "text": "Social Democratic Party (Latvia)\n\nThe Social Democratic Party (, SDP; formerly Social Democratic Union, , SDS) was a political party in Latvia formed by a splinter group from the Latvian Social Democratic Labour Party (LSDSP) after the leader of the LSDSP faction in the Saeima, Egils Baldzēns, lost to Juris Bojārs in the elections for party chairman on 27 October 2001. The major factor in the schism was the increasing intimacy between the LSDSP and the For Human Rights in United Latvia Bloc, considered to be excessively pro-Russian by the more nationalist members in Baldzēns' breakaway wing of the party. The newly formed SDS held its founding congress in Riga on 24 March 2002. In the 2002 election, the party won 1.5% of the popular vote and no seats. The last leader of the party was Egils Rutkovskis.\n\nIn January 2009, the party joined the Harmony Centre coalition. It merged into the Harmony party in 2010.\n\n"}
{"id": "1906427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906427", "title": "Light of Latgale", "text": "Light of Latgale\n\nThe Light of Latgale () was a Latgalian regionalist political party in Latvia. \n\nThe Light of Latgale was based in the city of Daugavpils and led by Daugavpils businessman Rihards Eigims. The party won 2001 municipal elections in Daugavpils, with Eigims becoming the city's mayor. Eigims was the mayor until 2003 when he lost a confidence vote in the city council, after several city council members defected from The Light of Latgale. The Light of Latgale was the main opposition party in Daugavpils city council until 2005.\n\nThe party was less successful outside Daugavpils. It held one seat on the city council of Krāslava and failed to win seats in municipal elections elsewhere in Latgale. At the legislative elections on 5 October 2002, the party won 1.6% of the popular vote and no seats. The party disbanded on 7 February 2007.\n"}
{"id": "1906429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906429", "title": "WFUT-DT", "text": "WFUT-DT\n\nWFUT-DT, virtual channel 68 (UHF digital channel 26), is a UniMás owned-and-operated television station licensed to Newark, New Jersey, United States and serving the New York City television market. It is one of two East Coast flagship stations of the Spanish-language network (alongside WAMI-DT in Miami–Fort Lauderdale, Florida). WFUT-DT is owned by the Univision Local Media subsidiary of Univision Communications, as part of a \"de facto\" triopoly with Paterson, New Jersey-licensed Univision co-flagship WXTV-DT (channel 41) and Smithtown, New York-licensed Justice Network affiliate WFTY-DT (channel 67). The three stations share studios on Frank W. Burr Boulevard in Teaneck, New Jersey; WFUT and WXTV share transmitter facilities at the Empire State Building in Midtown Manhattan.\n\nWFUT's programming is simulcast to Long Island on WFTY's second digital subchannel (UHF channel 23.2 or virtual channel 67.2 via PSIP) from its transmitter in Middle Island, New York.\n\nThe station first signed on the air on September 29, 1974 as WBTB-TV, an independent station founded by Old Bridge Township, New Jersey-based Blonder-Tongue Laboratories. The station's original call letters were intended to be WWRO-TV in its construction permit, but upon Blonder-Tongue's acquisition of the permit from Atlantic Video Corporation in 1972, the calls were changed; the first transmission was a test pattern with a drawing of a shade tree with the WBTB-TV calls. Channel 68 was the third commercial UHF station to sign-on in the northern New Jersey portion of the New York market, after WNJU-TV (channel 47) and future sister station WXTV. Blonder-Tongue's long-term plans for channel 68 was to offer an over-the-air subscription television service to the New York area, consisting of movies, sports and cultural programming. Due to financial issues, the station was forced to go dark on December 27, 1974.\n\nNine months later, on September 28, 1975, WBTB-TV returned to the air and became the first \"specialty station\" as defined by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) with niche programming—featuring daily reports and updates from the New York financial exchanges. When the stock markets were closed, channel 68 offered shows such as the \"Grand Ole Opry\" during the late afternoon hours, a locally-produced variety series called \"The Uncle Floyd Show\" hosted by Floyd Vivino, and Christian programming hosted by Keith Hauser at night. Saturdays featured various ethnic programs, as well as religious programming during the day on Sunday and on weekday mornings before the stock market opened.\n\nIn 1976 Wometco Enterprises, the founding and longtime owners of WTVJ in Miami, purchased the station originally with the intent of making it more of a general entertainment station, and changed the station's callsign to WTVG in 1977. WTVG acquired the rights to some programs such as \"Lassie\", \"Mister Ed\", \"Green Acres\" and \"Speed Racer\". However, due to high program costs in the New York City market, and the presence of six existing commercial VHF stations—including then-independents WNEW-TV (channel 5, now WNYW), WOR-TV (channel 9, now WWOR-TV), and WPIX (channel 11)—WTVG was at too much of a disadvantage to grow into a major player.\n\nIn the fall of 1977, Wometco launched a national over-the-air subscription television service called Wometco Home Theater, and opted to use WTVG as its flagship station. On July 16, 1979, the station's calls were changed to WWHT to match the program service. Viewers who subscribed to WHT were given set-top converter boxes which descrambled the channel 68 signal. In a twist of irony, the converter boxes were manufactured by Blonder-Tongue Laboratories, thus fulfilling their original ambitions for the station they launched only three years earlier.\n\nBy 1980, WWHT's program lineup consisted of a mixture of religious shows](such as \"The PTL Club\") during mornings and middays and general entertainment programs (including a one-hour business news show) in late afternoon and early evenings. WHT programming aired during late mornings, primetime and late nights. On weekends, the station ran children's, religious and ethnic brokered programs, with the subscription service beginning in late afternoons. Around this same time, Wometco purchased Smithtown-based WSNL-TV (channel 67, now WFTY-DT), which began simulcasting WWHT.\n\nIn the spring of 1981, WWHT dropped afternoon programming and began running Financial News Network from 9 to 10 a.m. and from 1 to 5 p.m. In the spring of 1983, WHT began offering programming 24 hours a day. By this time, WWHT only ran some religious programming from 7 to 10 a.m. weekdays and Sundays, and WHT programming the rest of the time. FNN, brokered shows and the few entertainment shows it had were dropped, with the \"Uncle Floyd Show\" moving to the New Jersey Network. In 1984, a year after Wometco's founder Mitchell Wolfson died, WWHT/WSNL and the other Wometco stations were sold to investment firm Kohlberg Kravis Roberts, which also bought the Storer Broadcasting group of stations.\n\nBy 1985 WHT folded, due to huge losses as a result of the expansion of cable television; as a result, the station switched to music videos as \"U68\", programmed by Steve Leeds (later at MTV). KKR was looking to sell all of its broadcast properties. The former Wometco stations were sold to separate buyers, with WTVJ eventually going to NBC. (The other Storer stations picked up by KKR went to Gillett Broadcasting). However, during Autumn 1986, WWHT and WSNL were sold to the Home Shopping Network becoming WHSE and WHSI, respectively, and aired HSN programming full-time for the next sixteen years. When Barry Diller bought the USA Network (and effectively HSN), the company was renamed USA Broadcasting.\nBy the late 1990s, USA Broadcasting planned to switch its HSN stations to a general entertainment independent format, with WHSE/WHSI slated to switch in 2000 as WORX (which would have been branded as \"The Worx 68\"). Promos and station IDs were actually produced for the station, and classic series such as \"Taxi\", \"I Love Lucy\" and \"Cheers\" were acquired for the station. Several of its sister stations had switched to the entertainment format in the prior two years. However, only weeks before the planned switch, USA put all its stations up for sale; The Walt Disney Company was originally the leading bidder for the stations, which would have made WHSE/WHSI a sister station to ABC owned-and-operated WABC-TV (channel 7), but Univision Communications outbid its competition in a close race. USA Broadcasting, as a result of the pending sale, scrapped the format switch, with WHSE remaining with HSN for a few more months as a result.\n\nIn the immediate aftermath of the September 11 attacks of 2001, the station temporarily broadcast WABC-TV.\n\nIn the fall of 2001, WHSE began carrying programming from AIN/UATV, two networks that generally affiliated with low-powered stations elsewhere in the country. Once Univision completed the purchase of the USA Broadcasting over a year after it was announced, the station became a charter affiliate of its new secondary network Telefutura (which would later relaunch as UniMás in January 2013) on January 14, 2002, and accordingly had its call letters changed to WFUT-TV.\n\nThe station's digital signal is multiplexed:\nWFUT discontinued regular programming on its analog signal, over UHF channel 68, on June 12, 2009, as part of the federally mandated transition from analog to digital television. The station's digital signal relocated from its pre-transition UHF channel 58 to channel 30 (originally, its final digital channel assignment was to be UHF channel 41), using PSIP to display WFUT's virtual channel as 68 on digital television receivers, which (as with its original digital channel allocation) was among the high band UHF channels (52–69) that were removed from broadcasting use as a result of the transition.\n\nGetTV was launched in February 2014 on the station's 68.3 digital sub-channel, becoming the first free over-the-air English-language movie network to air on the station since the demise of Wometco Home Theater in 1985.\n\nThe Justice Network, previously airing on WJLP, was added on 68.5 in October 2017, airing crime dramas and documentary programming.\n\nFrom the mid 1970s through the early 1980s, channel 68 aired daily financial news and reports.\n\nIn 2009, sister station WXTV began producing an hour-long extension of its weekday morning newscast (currently branded as \"Noticias 41 Al Despertar\") for WFTY/WFUT, airing at 7 a.m.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1906430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906430", "title": "Ethnic pornography", "text": "Ethnic pornography\n\nEthnic pornography is a genre of pornography featuring performers of specific ethnic groups, or depictions of interracial sexual activity. Though productions can feature any type of ethnic group (Caucasian, Asian, Black, Native American), the most common emphasis is on relationships between white- and black-skinned individuals.\n\nInterracial pornography features performers of differing racial and ethnic backgrounds and often employs ethnic and racial stereotypes in its depiction of performers.\n\n\"Behind the Green Door\" (1972) was one of the first pornographic films to feature sex between a white actress (Marilyn Chambers) and a black actor (Johnnie Keyes).\n\nIn the past, some of American pornography's white actresses were allegedly warned to avoid African American males, both on-screen and in their personal lives. One rationale was the purportedly widespread belief that appearing in interracial pornography would ruin a white performer's career, although some observers have said that there is no evidence that this is true. \"Adult Video News\" critic Sheldon Ranz wrote in 1997 that:\n\nOn the other hand, some commentators have pointed out that the lack of racial divide and \"nonsense about 'attraction' and 'preference'\" in the European pornographic scene allowed many top European female performers to appear in American interracial pornographic films. Lexington Steele told \"The Root\" in a 2013 interview that white female performers who appear in interracial pornography may conceal their careers due to social pressure from their intimates, arguing \"It's just an element of American culture that still exists, and that is the feeling that a white female will be deflowered or soiled, if you will, by doing a scene with a black male\". According to a survey by Jon Millward, while 87% of porn actresses are willing to take a facial, only 53% will do interracial porn.\n\nSophie Dee, prominent figure of the genre, said in a 2010 interview that she thought agents often pressure white female performers not to appear in interracial pornography. Dee said that they will be paid better for performing with black men and their careers will not be damaged in any way, pointing at positive examples of some Vivid Entertainment actresses.\n\nAurora Snow noted in a 2013 article that the major factor preventing several white actresses from doing interracial scenes is \"career anxiety\" imposed by agents rather than their own racial bias. Tee Reel, male porn star and one of the few black agents in the U.S. industry, had a concurring opinion, saying, \"In the business, some girls who say they don't do interracial, I've actually had sex with, off-camera.\" Porn star Kristina Rose has alleged that some agents tell younger actresses that they will earn less from performing in interracial pornography to bar their involvement, although the opposite is true on a global level.\n\nIn Chapter 3 of her book \"Porn Studies\", Linda Williams, professor at the University of California, Berkeley, examines the film \"Crossing the Color Line\" starring Sean Michaels, a black actor, and Christi Lake, a white actress. In the interviews portion of the film, Michaels and Lake express how being \"color-blind\" is a progressive approach to interracial porn. Williams identifies a contradiction between these interviews and the subsequent performance, in which both actors make several references to the differences in skin color between them. For example, Lake refers to Michaels' genitalia as a \"big black dick\". Williams argues that by pointing out racial differences, race is being made the main point of intrigue for the audience, which perpetuates the exotification of racial differences. She argues that the eroticized sexual tension in interracial pornography dates back in American history to slavery.\n\nMireille Miller-Young, professor of feminist studies at University of California, Santa Barbara, argues that while the porn industry hypersexualizes African-American pornographic actresses, they are often paid less, hired less, and given less attention during health checks than their white counterparts. Some scholars also argue that white women are upheld as the most-prized commodity in the industry, while black women are often devalued for their sex work, regardless of their perceived erotic abilities.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1906431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906431", "title": "WPPX-TV", "text": "WPPX-TV\n\nWPPX-TV, virtual channel 61 (UHF digital channel 34), is an Ion Television owned-and-operated station serving Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, United States that is licensed to Wilmington, Delaware. The station is owned by West Palm Beach, Florida-based Ion Media Networks (the former Paxson Communications). WPPX's offices are located on Main Street in Manayunk, and its transmitter is located in Roxborough, both sections of Philadelphia.\n\nThe UHF channel 61 allocation in eastern Pennsylvania was originally assigned to Reading, Pennsylvania in the 1950s, when WHUM-TV occupied the channel as a CBS affiliate. The allocation was eventually reassigned to Wilmington after the Reading station went dark on September 4, 1956 after a lightning strike on the WHUM-TV tower severely damaged the station's antenna and waveguide.\n\nThe current station occupying channel 61, now licensed to Wilmington, Delaware, signed on the air as WTGI-TV on July 9, 1986, originally operating as a general entertainment independent station. It mostly broadcast programs that the established Philadelphia stations did not desire, including drama series, old movies, reruns of old game shows, religious shows, and some ABC network shows that WPVI-TV (channel 6) chose to pre-empt. Reruns of \"Dynasty\" were WTGI's most prominent program, as well as an attempt at a local newscast entitled \"Delaware Valley Tonight\". In addition, the station was scheduled to broadcast Philadelphia Big 5 basketball, but that idea was dropped before the season started. A lack of cable system carriage (partly because of the news program) and a transmitter located away from the heart of the Philadelphia market left the station with minimal viewership and an inability to sell advertising time at a profit.\nWhen Vineland, New Jersey-based independent WSJT (channel 65, now Univision owned-and-operated station WUVP-DT) was sold to Home Shopping Network later that year, WTGI planned to acquire that station's programming inventory of mostly 1950s sitcoms. But after low sales and a larger loss of money than was thought, the station changed course abruptly. Various Spanish, religious and shopping channels were considered for affiliation. On November 24, 1986, all the entertainment shows were dropped and WTGI began carrying home shopping programming from the Video Shopping Channel about 18 hours a day. The station continued to run some rejected ABC shows and religious programs part of the day.\n\nIn the fall of 1988, WTGI adopted an ethnic-based format airing Telemundo programming during the evening hours, a few hours a day of other foreign language programs, and religious shows (in English) for part of the day. In 1993, WTGI became an affiliate of the Trinity Broadcasting Network, which made an attempt to buy the station; however, this sale fell through. In 1995, the station was sold to Paxson Communications; it then became an affiliate of the company's all-infomercial service inTV, until becoming a charter affiliate of the Pax TV network on August 31, 1998, at which time it changed its call letters to WPPX.\n\nFrom 2001 to 2005, WPPX-TV rebroadcast some newscasts from NBC owned-and-operated station WCAU (channel 10).\n\nWPPX-TV also has plans for a Mobile DTV feed of subchannel 61.1.\n\nWPPX-TV shut down its analog signal, over UHF channel 61, on June 12, 2009, the official date in which full-power television stations in the United States transitioned from analog to digital broadcasts under federal mandate. The station's digital signal continued to broadcasts on its pre-transition UHF channel 31. Through the use of PSIP, digital television receivers display the station's virtual channel as its former UHF analog channel 61, which was among the high band UHF channels (52-69) that were removed from broadcasting use as a result of the transition.\n\nIn March 2018, a new RF 34 transmitter for was installed about a mile from the previous location. It is a lower power transmitter, and some locations can no longer receive WPPX over the air (this includes some or all of the Lehigh Valley).\n\n"}
{"id": "1906435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906435", "title": "Dong Fangzhuo", "text": "Dong Fangzhuo\n\nDong Fangzhuo (; born 23 January 1985) is a Chinese former professional footballer who played as a forward.\n\nDong first came to prominence in 2000 when he was named the most valuable player in an under-17 tournament. He then signed for Dalian Saidelong and helped them finish as runners-up in the Chinese Jia-B league in 2002. This then earned him a move to Dalian Shide, the most successful club team in China. Dong scored his first goal for Dalian in the second match of the qualifying stages of the 2002–03 AFC Champions League.\n\nDong left Dalian for Manchester United on 12 January 2004 for an initial fee of £500,000, which could have risen to £3.5 million, depending upon appearances. He thus became the first East Asian player to sign for Manchester United.\n\nAfter signing for Manchester United, he was unable to play for the senior team immediately because he was ineligible for a work permit. Due to these legal issues, Dong was loaned out to get first-team experience with Belgian First Division side Royal Antwerp where the employment laws were less strict. In his first season, he scored one goal in nine appearances as he began to get used to his new environment. His second season began more promisingly, finding the net in six of his first seven appearances of the season, all as a substitute off the bench. However, disrupted by injury and international duty, his form fell away in the latter half of the season as he finished with seven goals in 22 appearances in all competitions. At the beginning of the 2005–06 season, he was called up to join Manchester United on their pre-season tour and made his unofficial debut for the club in a friendly match in Hong Kong, scoring a goal in a 2–0 win.\n\nIn the 2005–06 season, Dong impressed for Royal Antwerp as he finished as the top goalscorer for both his team and the Belgian Second Division with 18 goals, including two hat-tricks. In 2006, he again joined Manchester United on a pre-season tour and scored the winner in a 1–0 win over Kaizer Chiefs. Manager Alex Ferguson remarked that Dong had the \"speed and physicality\" to play for United and hoped that he would be eligible to play for the club by December 2006. It was reported that Dong could obtain Belgian citizenship. However, this option would have caused Dong to lose his Chinese citizenship and was never considered. On 15 December 2006, almost three years after his original signing, Dong was finally given a work permit to play in England, having made enough appearances for the Chinese national team in the preceding two years. With his eligibility confirmed, he was recalled from Royal Antwerp having started the season with 11 goals in 15 appearances, given a new contract until 2010, and added to Manchester United's first-team squad on 17 January 2007.\n\nDong made his Old Trafford debut in a friendly charity match against a European XI on 13 March 2007, coming on as a substitute for Alan Smith in the 72nd minute of the 4–3 win. He was a regular for the Manchester United reserves, and on 9 May 2007, Dong made his Premier League debut, partnering Ole Gunnar Solskjær up front against Chelsea at Stamford Bridge. He made a further appearance for the club at Old Trafford, playing the entire match in a 2–0 defeat to Coventry City in the League Cup on 26 September 2007. On 12 December 2007, Dong made his first UEFA Champions League appearance as a substitute against Roma in the last group stage match of the 2007–08 season, replacing fellow striker Wayne Rooney. With that appearance, Dong became the second ever Chinese player to participate in the UEFA Champions League after Sun Xiang. However, he was able to score four goals in three matches for the reserves before suffering an injury.\n\nPrior to the start of the 2008–09 season, Dong was not given a squad number, with the number 21 shirt given to Rafael. On 28 August 2008, Dong and Manchester United mutually agreed that his contract was to be terminated in order for him to find first-team football elsewhere.\n\nOn 27 August 2008, Dong returned to Dalian Shide. His experience at Manchester United meant that expectations of him were high, but his performances in the league upon his return were very poor. Dong struggled to score goals and was relegated to the reserves as a result. His poor performances in the league also prevented him from being called up for the Chinese national team.\n\nAfter attending a training camp with Polish club Legia Warsaw, Dong signed an 18-month deal with an option for two more years, depending on his performances with the club. Despite impressing in several pre-season friendlies, Dong looked desperately out of his depth in the league and managed to play in just two appearances before being dropped to the reserves. He was released by Legia on 1 August 2010. On the back of former teammate Cristiano Ronaldo's recommendation, Portuguese club Portimonense signed Dong to a one-year deal in August 2010. Dong was not used often and was on the bench for most of his time at Portimonense. He grew frustrated with his lack of playing time and terminated his contract with Portimonense. Dong immediately left Portmonense and he was briefly linked with Serbian SuperLiga’s FK Sloboda Point Sevojno. Dong impressed again in Sloboda's friendlies and the Serbian news mentioned he was close to signing a contract. However, the club offered a long term contract to Dong, but the player only wanted a short term deal. Dong was reported to be asking for 10,000 Euro a week, but negotiations broke down and he was on his travels again.\n\nIn March 2011, Dong signed for Armenian Premier League side Mika. At the end of season, he left Mika for China League One side Hunan Billows. He played there for two years, scoring 9 goals before moving on to another Chinese second tier team, Hebei Zhongji, scoring 2 in 7.\n\nDong was called up by Chinese under-20 national team to participate in the 2005 FIFA World Youth Championship. He came off the bench to play in three out of the four matches during the tournament. Dong scored his first goal for the Chinese national team in a 4–1 loss to Switzerland on 3 June 2006 and was also called up for the 2007 AFC Asian Cup. Dong competed in the 2008 Summer Olympics. In the team's opening match against New Zealand, he was substituted on for Han Peng and went on to score China's first goal in the 88th minute, securing a 1–1 draw.\n\n"}
{"id": "1906438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906438", "title": "Alejandro Spajić", "text": "Alejandro Spajić\n\nAlejandro Raúl Spajić Torres (born May 7, 1976) is an Argentine volleyball player. Spajić is clearly a volleyball player both for Argentina and his club. His background is somewhat similar to another world-class volleyball player namely Marcos Milinkovic.\n\nAlejandro Spajić's parents are immigrants of Croat origin.\nWith the professional club Lokomotiv Belgorod, he won the bronze medal at the 2004–05 CEV Champions League and was awarded \"Best Spiker\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1906439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906439", "title": "WFPA-CD", "text": "WFPA-CD\n\nWFPA-CD, virtual channel 28 (UHF digital channel 35), is a low-power, Class A UniMás owned-and-operated television station licensed to Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, United States. Owned by the Univision Local Media subsidiary of Univision Communications, it is sister to the group's duopoly of Vineland, New Jersey-licensed Univision owned-and-operated station WUVP-DT (channel 65) and Wildwood, New Jersey-licensed Justice Network affiliate WMGM-TV (channel 40). WFPA and WUVP share studios on Delsea Drive in Franklin Township; WFPA's transmitter is located in the Roxborough section of Philadelphia.\n\nThe station originally operated as a repeater of New York City's Univision owned-and-operated station, WXTV. It was first licensed as a translator, W35AB, operating on UHF channel 35. After WYBE was granted a license to operate a full-power station on channel 35, the translator moved to channel 28 and was ultimately relicensed as a low-power station, WXTV-LP. In 2002, Univision Communications acquired WUVP (channel 65), and moved its programming there. Channel 28 began to air programming from the then-new TeleFutura network (which relaunched as UniMás in January 2013), and its call letters were changed to WFPA-CA.\n\nIn June 2006, the station was added to Philadelphia area Comcast systems on digital cable channel 251. WFPA is also available to DirecTV customers as part of the Philadelphia local channel package. It's also on FiOS in widescreen SD from WUVP-DT 65.2.\n\nIn some areas of the market, especially those north of Philadelphia, WFPA's signal causes some reception issues with the digital signal of New York City's WNBC, which broadcasts its digital signal on channel 28 (remapped to virtual channel 4).\n\nOn June 3, 2015, the station was licensed for digital operation and changed its call sign to WFPA-CD.\n\n"}
{"id": "1906446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906446", "title": "New Atlanta", "text": "New Atlanta\n\nNew Atlanta Communications, LLC is a software company specializing in products to ease creation of Web applications. Based in Alpharetta, Georgia, United States, and founded in 1998, the company markets 3 products: ServletExec, JTurbo, and BlueDragon.\n"}
{"id": "1906449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906449", "title": "WTVE", "text": "WTVE\n\nWTVE, virtual channel 51 (UHF digital channel 50), is an independent television station serving Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, United States that is licensed to Willow Grove. The station is owned by WRNN-TV Associates, as part of a duopoly with Princeton, New Jersey-licensed fellow independent WMCN-TV (channel 44); it is also sister to Trenton, New Jersey-licensed Class A station WPHY-CD (channel 25). WTVE's studios are located on North 11th Street in Reading, and it shares transmitter facilities with WPHY-CD in the Chestnut Hill section of Philadelphia.\n\nThe station first signed on the air on May 4, 1980 as an independent station, originally licensed to Reading. When it launched, WTVE initially maintained a general entertainment format with a mix of off-network sitcoms from the 1960s and early 1970s, movies, drama series and talk shows, as well as a local newscast. However, the station did not carry many cartoons. While the station received sizeable viewership, it was not profitable.\n\nBeginning in September 1981, WTVE began running the subscription television service SelecTV, which aired feature films just finished with their theatrical runs, each evening from 8 to 10 p.m. By January 1982, SelecTV programming expanded to 8 p.m. to midnight. That spring, the station began running SelecTV from 7 p.m. to 5 a.m. on weekdays and from 3 p.m. to 5 a.m. on weekends. In the fall of 1982, WTVE added Financial News Network programming each weekday from noon to 5 p.m., and began carrying religious programs on Saturday and Sunday mornings. WTVE switched to SelecTV programming after 6 p.m. weekdays and after noon on weekends.\nBy the fall of 1983, WTVE was running SelecTV full-time, with the exception of weekday broadcasts of \"The 700 Club\" and the \"Independent Network News\", along with other religious and public affairs shows on Saturday and Sunday mornings. SelecTV was dropped in the late 1980s, and was replaced with home shopping programming from Shop at Home and infomercials. In 1998, WTVE affiliated with the Spanish-language Telemundo network, before switching back to an English-language format after a year.\n\nWTVE's primary analog transmitter (prior to the digital transition) was located in Reading; the analog signal barely reached the Philadelphia suburbs and Lebanon, in the eastern part of the Harrisburg market. As a result, WTVE depended heavily on \"must-carry\" rules to reach viewers in the Philadelphia market on cable. WTVE at one point had a repeater in Philadelphia on channel 7; that station now operates independently as WWJT-LP.\n\nWTVE had been in Chapter 11 bankruptcy, managed by trustee George Miller until its $13.5-million takeover by WRNN-TV Associates received FCC approval on May 15, 2008. WRNN-TV Associates subsequently sold the station to NRJ TV (a company unrelated to European broadcaster NRJ Radio) in 2011. On June 1, 2016, the station joined the SonLife Broadcasting Network.\n\nOn December 9, 2019, it was announced that WRNN-TV Associates, would repurchase WTVE, as well as WPHY-CD and six other full-power TV stations in other markets from NRJ. The sale was approved by the FCC on January 23, and was completed on February 4, 2020, making WTVE and WPHY-CD sister stations to WMCN-TV. Upon completion of the sale, all SonLife programming was dropped and the station now broadcasts infomercials most of the day, along with a simulcast of WRNN's nightly talk show \"Richard French Live\".\n\nThe station's digital signal is multiplexed:\n\nWTVE formerly operated a third digital subchannel, which carried VIETV; , only 51.1 and 51.2 are broadcast.\n\nWTVE received authorization by the Federal Communications Commission to terminate its analog signal \"no earlier than September 30, 2008\" after expressing severe concerns that the existing analogue klystron tube transmitter was expected to fail. WTVE shut down its analog signal, over UHF channel 51, on that date. The station's digital signal remained on its pre-transition UHF channel 25. Through the use of PSIP, digital television receivers display the station's virtual channel as its former UHF analog channel 51.\n\nWTVE was one of the first stations in the U.S. to transmit using a distributed transmission system, having received special temporary authority from the FCC to operate WTVE-DT via eight (mostly low-powered) transmitters scattered across its coverage area rather than relying on a singular full-power signal.\n\nThe station formerly transmitted with on-channel boosters from sites in or near:\nThis pattern effectively created a tailored coverage area corresponding to one large main signal centered on Philadelphia, plus a series of boosters.\n\nIn late 2009, all eight boosters were upgraded to the ATSC-M/H format to be capable of mobile DTV broadcast. The station's Mobile DTV signal, which will be a simulcast of subchannel 51.1, was expected to sign on sometime in 2011; however it has not yet begun operations as of November 2013.\n\nPrior to its switch to Sonlife, WTVE's schedule consisted mostly of infomercials and paid religious programs; the station did carry some limited syndicated programming on weekday early evenings. Syndicated programming seen on WTVE included \"Inside Edition\", \"That '70s Show\" and \"Everybody Loves Raymond\".\n\nWTVE aired nightly newscasts from its on-air inception in 1980 until late 1983, when the station switched to a full-time schedule of SelecTV programming. The original news programs were called \"TV51 Total News\" and aired weeknights at 5:30 and 10 p.m. \"Total News\" was targeted primarily at viewers in Berks and Schuylkill counties in an effort to fill a void in local news coverage for viewers living on the far western edge of the Philadelphia television market. Original WTVE anchors included longtime WEEU radio newsman Bob Smith, Frank Mooney (longtime Reading radio and television personality and \"voice\" of Boscov's department stores) and sports anchor Ross MacCallum. Later local radio personality and newscaster Suzy Sands joined the station as anchor of the 10 p.m. newscast. Weekend newscasts were anchored by Mike Reinert and Karen Kaye.\n\nAt this same time, Jeffrey D. Miller (one-time \"Night Mayor\" on Reading radio) hosted a late night talk show called \"NightBeat\". Miller also anchored and reported for the nightly news programs. WTVE was also one of the first to air \"Independent Network News\", a nationally syndicated nightly news program produced by WPIX in New York City that was distributed to independent stations, each night at 10:30 p.m. during the 1980s.\n\nLocal news programming was re-established on the station in 2000, with the debut of \"Philly TV News\". This program was an attempt to build up the station as a player in the Philadelphia television news arena, but the production failed to attract viewers and was eventually cancelled.\n\nIn the 1980s, WTVE was known for airing high school football games featuring Berks and Schuylkill County schools via tape delay on Saturday evenings. Albright College basketball was also broadcast in a similar manner. The station aired various football games involving Pennsylvania teams. In 2007, WTVE broadcast four Albright College football games; in 2008, the station became an affiliate of the PA Sports Fever network.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1906458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906458", "title": "Barford St Martin", "text": "Barford St Martin\n\nBarford St Martin is a village and civil parish in Wiltshire, England, about west of Wilton, on the junction of the A30 and the B3089. Barford is known as one of the Nadder Valley villages, named for the River Nadder which flows through the village.\n\nGrovely Wood forms the northern section of the parish.\n\nThe history of Barford can be traced back to the 11th century. It was recorded in the Domesday Book compiled in 1085/1086. The St Martin suffix, from the dedication of the church, was added by 1304 to distinguish it from Barford manor in Downton parish.\n\nHurdcott House is from the early or mid 19th century and stands on the site of an earlier house.\n\nGrovely Wood, between Barford and Great Wishford, was an extra-parochial area. By 1839, the boundary of Barford parish had moved north to include almost all of the woodland.\n\nAn early medieval preaching cross in the centre of the village is Grade I listed.\n\nThe church of St Martin is an ancient building of stone in Early English and Perpendicular styles. There has been a church here since the 13th century. The Grade I listed building has a central embattled tower within which hangs a peal of six bells; the four heavier bells date from the middle of the 18th century and the two lighter bells are from the turn of the 20th century. The benefice is part of the Nadder Valley team ministry.\n\nA Primitive Methodist chapel was built in 1902 to replace an earlier chapel. By 2012 it was in residential use.\n\nBarford has an active Parish Council who are determined to improve facilities and the visual appearance of the village. The parish is in the area of Wiltshire Council unitary authority, which is responsible for all significant local government functions.\n\nThe Countryside Unit at Dairy Lane is owned by Alabaré Christian Care Centres. The land used to be part of a farm, but now serves as a teaching facility for homeless and other disadvantaged people including those suffering and recovering from mental health illnesses. Skills such as woodworking, arts & crafts, and agriculture are taught there.\n\nThe local school with its \"Feed my lambs\" logo was built in 1854 and closed at the end of 2006. Village children now travel to Wilton. The building is now used for a pre-school playgroup.\n\nThere is also a 17th-century pub called The Barford Inn, formerly known as The Green Dragon. The Wiltshire Yeomanry dedicated a tank to this pub during the Second World War, with \"The Green Dragon\" on one side and \"Barford St Martin\" on the other.\n\nOrganist and composer Caleb Simper (1856-1942) was born in Barford St Martin. Rupert Gould (1890-1948, Royal Navy officer and horologist) lived at Barford in later life.\n\n"}
{"id": "1906459", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906459", "title": "The Hunchback of Notre Dame (1923 film)", "text": "The Hunchback of Notre Dame (1923 film)\n\nThe Hunchback of Notre Dame is a 1923 American drama film starring Lon Chaney, directed by Wallace Worsley, and produced by Carl Laemmle and Irving Thalberg. The supporting cast includes Patsy Ruth Miller, Norman Kerry, Nigel de Brulier, and Brandon Hurst. The film was Universal's \"Super Jewel\" of 1923 and was their most successful silent film, grossing $3.5 million.\n\nThe film is based on Victor Hugo's 1831 novel, and is notable for the grand sets that recall 15th century Paris as well as for Chaney's performance and make-up as the tortured hunchback Quasimodo. The film elevated Chaney, already a well-known character actor, to full star status in Hollywood, and also helped set a standard for many later horror films, including Chaney's \"The Phantom of the Opera\" in 1925. In 1951, the film entered the public domain in the United States because the claimants did not renew its copyright registration in the 28th year after publication.\n\nThe story is set in Paris in 1482. Quasimodo is a deaf, half-blind, hunchbacked bell-ringer of the famous Cathedral of Notre Dame in Paris. His master is a man named Jehan, the evil brother of Notre Dame's saintly archdeacon Dom Claude. One night, Jehan prevails upon Quasimodo to kidnap the fair Esmeralda, a dancing gypsy girl (and the adopted daughter of Clopin, the king of the oppressed beggars of Paris' underworld). The dashing Captain Phoebus rescues Esmeralda from Quasimodo, while Jehan abandons him and flees (later in the film, Quasimodo hates Jehan for abandoning him and is no longer loyal to him). At first seeking a casual romance, Phoebus becomes entranced by Esmeralda, and takes her under his wing. Quasimodo is sentenced to be lashed in the public square before Esmeralda and Dom Claude come to his aid.\nTo their dismay, Jehan and Clopin learn that Phoebus hopes to marry Esmeralda, despite being engaged to Fleur de Lys. Phoebus persuades Esmeralda to accompany him to a ball celebrating his appointment as Captain of the Guard by King Louis XI. He provides her with rich garments and introduces her to their hostess, Madame de Gondelaurier, as a Princess of Egypt. Clopin, accompanied by his beggars, crashes the festivities and demands Esmeralda be returned. To avoid bloodshed, Esmeralda says that she does not belong with the aristocracy. Later, however, Esmeralda sends the street poet Pierre Gringoire to give Phoebus a note, arranging a rendezvous at Notre Dame to say goodbye to him. Phoebus arrives and is stabbed in the back by Jehan. After Esmeralda is falsely sentenced to death for the crime, she is rescued from the gallows by Quasimodo and carried inside the cathedral, where he and Dom Claude grant her sanctuary.\n\nLater that night, Clopin leads the whole of the underworld to storm the cathedral, and Jehan attempts to take Esmeralda, first by guile (telling her that Phoebus's dying wish was for him to take care of her), then by force. Quasimodo holds off the invaders with rocks and torrents of molten lead. Meanwhile, the healed Phoebus is alerted by Gringoire and leads his men against the rabble. When Quasimodo finds Jehan attacking Esmeralda, he throws his former master off the ramparts of Notre Dame, but not before Jehan fatally stabs him three times in the back. Phoebus finds and embraces Esmeralda. Witnessing this, Quasimodo rings his own death toll, and Gringoire and Dom Claude enter the bell tower just in time to see him die. The last image is of the great bell swinging silently above Quasimodo's corpse.\n\n\nLong before the film was produced or shot, Lon Chaney was the industry favorite to play the role of Quasimodo. \"Film Daily\" stated it was essentially common knowledge that Chaney wanted to play the role of Quasimodo and even claimed that Chaney considered organizing a company to make the film abroad. It is known that Chaney had acquired the rights to produce the film several years prior and had been actively engaged in negotiating the production with Universal. Evidence of Chaney's seriousness included plans to do the production abroad with a German studio, the Chelsea Pictures Company. In April 1922, Chelsea Pictures announced that Lon Chaney would star in the role of Quasimodo and that Alan Crosland would direct the film. The film failed to materialize and the company seemed to have disappeared without making any releases.\n\nIrving Thalberg, who had previously worked with Chaney and Tod Browning, desired to make a production that would rise artistically above the otherwise expensive productions Universal produced. In order to convince Universal's founder, Carl Laemmle, to formally approve the production, Thalberg pitched \"Hunchback\" to him as \"a love story\". Bolstered by Chaney's recent box office successes, Laemmle agreed.\n\n\"Universal Weekly\", the house publication of Universal, formally announced the production of \"The Hunchback of Notre Dame\" in August 1922. The next issue stated that the Universal Scenario Department was working on the continuity and that preliminary plans for the sets were being drafted. In September 1922, \"Universal Weekly\" announced Lon Chaney's intention for it to have him act in his final \"cripple role\", following the successes of both \"The Miracle Man\" and \"The Penalty\". Chaney's ownership of the film rights allowed him contractual latitude for far more artistic approval and control of this production than he had had in previous ones; for this, he would thus serve as an uncredited, \"de facto\" producer; Thalberg was undoubtedly complicit in such an arrangement, with it serving to prevent Carl Laemmle from cutting costs on the \"artistic\" production.\n\nIt is not known for certain, but Lon Chaney is believed to have even been influential in the selection of the director; although Wallace Worsley, the final choice for director, had previously worked successfully with Chaney on four previous films (\"The Penalty\", \"The Ace of Hearts\", \"Voices of the City\", and \"A Blind Bargain\"; the last of which also featured Chaney as a hunchback) at Goldwyn, Michael Blake, a Lon Chaney scholar, states that Chaney's first choice for director was Erich von Stroheim, at that time Universal's prized \"name\" director after the successes of \"Blind Husbands\" and \"Foolish Wives\". However, Stroheim was fired by Thalberg from Universal before production on \"Hunchback\" commenced—ironically, due to Thalberg's fears that Stroheim would incur cost overruns on his own separate production, \"Merry-Go-Round\".\n\n\"Universal Weekly\" thus announced Wallace Worsley, pending approval from his then-home studio Paramount, as the likely director of \"Hunchback\" in late November. Worsley's status as director, on loan from Paramount, was confirmed in the following issue, though such confirmation ran alongside an advertisement that stated Tod Browning would direct. Due to Worsley's prior commitments directing two other pictures for Paramount being extended due to the hurried replacement of their fatally-ill star, Wallace Reid, with Jack Holt, the start date on \"Hunchback\" was pushed back nearly a month in order to accommodate Worsley; in the event, the second of the two films with Holt that Worsey was to direct was eventually helmed by Joseph Henabery, in his stead.\n\nUniversal announced its intentions to recreate the Notre Dame cathedral and the surrounding streets to the exacting specifications of the period. Universal staff set about creating the \"Gallery of Kings\", thirty five statues, each ten feet high with intended likeness of the originals. The construction of the sets was estimated to take six months to complete. The screenplay was completed by Edward T. Lowe, Jr. and Perley Poore Sheehan by the end of 1922.\n\nIn the beginning of January, it was announced that film production began with the \"Court of Miracles\" setting. Shooting the Parisian underworld scene required a cast of some several hundred extras. The construction of the Notre Dame set and the street settings had not yet been completed. In the beginning of February filming had moved to the Madame de Gondelaurier scenes. The production reportedly required three thousand costumes for extras, requiring six weeks for Universal costume department to complete.\n\nIn March, \"Film Daily\" reported Worsley had traded in his megaphone for a radio and loudspeaker to direct the large crowd of extras for the scenes. \"Radio Digest\" stated that it was a $7,000 radio and loudspeaker set up, .\n\n\"Film Daily\" reported on June 8 that the filming of the camera shots had been completed and that Universal had signed a contract to lease the Astor Theater for showing the film on September 2.\n\nAt the beginning of 1923, Universal's accounts believed that the cost of the production would be between $750,000 and $1,000,000.\n\nThe review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes reported that 91% of critics have given the film a positive review based on , with a weighted average rating of 8.08/10. The site's critics consensus reads, \"A heart-rending take on the classic book, with a legendary performance by Lon Chaney.\"\n\nThe film is recognized by American Film Institute in these lists:\n\nThe only surviving prints of the film are 16mm \"show-at-home\" prints distributed by Universal in the 1920s and 1930s for home-movie purposes, and no original nitrate 35mm negatives or prints exist. Most video editions (including public domain releases) of the film are derived from 16mm duplicate prints that were distributed by Blackhawk Films in the 1960s and 1970s. A DVD release of a newly restored print of the film was released by Image Entertainment on October 9, 2007. A Blu-ray release of a newly restored print of the film was released by Flicker Alley on March 18, 2014.\n\n\nBibliography\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1906462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906462", "title": "Meiji Jingu Stadium", "text": "Meiji Jingu Stadium\n\nThe is a baseball stadium in Shinjuku, Tokyo, Japan. It opened in 1926 and holds 37,933 spectators. Property of the Meiji Shrine, it is the home field of the Tokyo Yakult Swallows professional baseball team. It also hosts college baseball, including the Tokyo Big6 Baseball League and the Tohto University Baseball League.\n\nAs the second oldest baseball stadium in Japan, Meiji Jingu Stadium is one of the few professional stadiums still in existence where Babe Ruth played. In 1934, Ruth joined several other famous baseball players from the U.S., such as Lou Gehrig and Jimmie Foxx, in a 22-game tour of Japan. (Matsutarō Shōriki, popularly known as the father of Japanese professional baseball, organized the American tour; he survived an assassination attempt for allowing foreigners to play baseball in Jingu Stadium. He received a 16-inch-long wound from a broadsword during the assassination attempt.)\n\nJingu Stadium was also used for an exhibition of baseball when Tokyo hosted the 1964 Olympic Games. The United States team of college baseball players, including eight future major league players, defeated a Japanese amateur all-star team in Tokyo, 6–2.\n\nIn 2019 the Meiji Jingu Gaien, the Japan Sports Council, Mitsui Fudosan and Itochu Corp. groups agreed to redevelop both the Jingu stadium and the Prince Chichibu Memorial Rugby Ground. Under the plans Jingu Stadium will be demolished and a rebuilt on the site of the rugby ground at present.\n\n\nIt is one of the main stadiums in Ace of Diamond, a very popular manga and anime series.\n\nIt is the setting for Gurazeni, and the home stadium for Jingu Spiders.\n\n"}
{"id": "1906465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906465", "title": "Thai tea", "text": "Thai tea\n\nThai tea is a Thai drink made from tea, milk and sugar, and served hot or cold. It is popular in Southeast Asia and is served in many restaurants that serve Thai food. When served cold it is known as Thai iced tea (, , , lit. \"cold tea\").\n\nThe drink is made from strongly brewed Ceylon tea, or a locally grown landrace (traditional or semi-wild) version of Assam known as Bai Miang (ใบเมี่ยง). Other ingredients may include: orange blossom water, star anise, crushed tamarind seed, and sometimes other spices as well.\n\nThe tea is sweetened with sugar and condensed milk and served chilled. Evaporated milk, coconut milk or whole milk is poured over the tea and ice before serving to add taste and creamy appearance. Condensed milk and sugar may also be mixed with the tea before it is poured over ice and then topped with evaporated milk. In Thai restaurants, it is served in a tall glass, but when sold from street and market stalls in Thailand it may be poured over the crushed ice in a plastic bag or tall plastic cups. It may also be made into a frappé at some vendors.\n\nTapioca pearls can be added to Thai tea to make a bubble tea.\n\n\nIn Thailand, Thai hot tea is often drunk in the morning, frequently with \"yiu ja guoy\" () or \"pathongko\" (Thai: ปาท่องโก๋), as it is known by most Thai people.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1906466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906466", "title": "Lords of Montpellier", "text": "Lords of Montpellier\n\nThe following is a list of lords of Montpellier:\n\n\nIn 1344 James III sold the Lordship of Montpellier to King Philip VI of France: Montpellier became a possession of the crown of France.\n\n"}
{"id": "1906471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906471", "title": "Port-de-Paix", "text": "Port-de-Paix\n\nPort-de-Paix ( English: \"Port of Peace\") is a commune and the capital of the Nord-Ouest department of Haiti on the Atlantic coast. It has a population of 462,000 (2015 IHSI estimate). Port-de-Paix used to be a large exporter of bananas and coffee.\n\nDuring the Amerindian period this area was called \"Xarama\" by the Taïno people. The area around the town was given the name \"Valparaíso\" by Christopher Columbus after landing here in the late evening of December 6, 1492, and today still contains many attractive beaches and cave locations. A ferry operates between the town and Tortuga island, (La Tortue), called \"Gusaeni Cahini\" by the Taïnos, which is situated just across the water.\n\nThe town was founded in 1665 by French filibusters, driven from Tortuga Island by the British occupiers. In 1676 the capital of the French Colony of Saint-Domingue was moved from Tortuga to Port-de-Paix, and it remained the seat of government until 1711 when the capital was moved to Cap-Français. In 1676, Padrejean escaped from slavery in the Port. In 1679 the town saw the first black slave revolt. The area saw great success during the 18th century but on February 27, 1903 the town was almost entirely destroyed by fire, and never attained its former status.\n\nPort-de-Paix is also the chief town of an arrondissement of the same name. The arrondissement consists of five communes: Port-de-Paix, La Pointe des Palmistes, Bassin-Bleu, Chansolme and Tortuga.\n\nPort-de-Paix was hit by a magnitude 5.9 earthquake in 2018.\n\nPort-de-Paix is served by Port-de-Paix Airport.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1906475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906475", "title": "Latvian Farmers' Union", "text": "Latvian Farmers' Union\n\nThe Latvian Farmers' Union (, LZS) is an agrarian-nationalist political party in Latvia. Since 2002, the party has formed the Union of Greens and Farmers (ZZS) in cooperation with the Latvian Green Party.\n\nFounded in 1917, the party was the most influential conservative party in Latvia in the period from Independence in 1918 until the self-coup led by Kārlis Ulmanis in 1934, and the second most popular party overall after the Latvian Social Democratic Workers' Party. Ulmanis, who was a member of the party, banned all political parties after his coup including the LZS. As Latvia was subsequently occupied during the course of the Second World War, the party was dormant until it reformed in 1990 when Latvia regained its independence. Immediately after the restoration of independence, there existed several groups competing at elections to claim the legacy of the pre-war LZS. Since 2002 it has been part of the Union of Greens and Farmers (\"ZZS\") coalition, along with the Latvian Green Party. The coalition now includes For Latvia and Ventspils and the Liepāja Party, who have cooperation agreements with the party allowing their members to be elected to the Saeima on the list of the Union of Greens and Farmers. The coalition faction is currently the third largest in the Saeima and the LZS has 9 out of the 21 seats it holds. Since May 2014 the party has had one member of the European Parliament, Iveta Grigule, who sits with the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats group, having previously sat with the Europe of Freedom and Direct Democracy group and as a Non-Attached Member.\n"}
{"id": "1906476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906476", "title": "Hiroshima Municipal Stadium (1957)", "text": "Hiroshima Municipal Stadium (1957)\n\nIt stood in the central area of Hiroshima across from the Hiroshima Peace Memorial.\n\nTo replace the stadium, the new municipal stadium was completed in March 2009. The first stadium was renamed on April 1, 2009, and used for amateur baseball. The first municipal stadium was closed on September 1, 2010.\n\nThe stadium disuse bylaw was concluded by the Hiroshima municipal assembly in June 2010 and the stadium was slated for demolition. In October of the same year, stadium memorabilia was auctioned off and demolition started on November 29. It was completed on February 28, 2012, leaving only a portion of the right field stands (35m x 6m) to be preserved for future generations.\n\n"}
{"id": "1906481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906481", "title": "Top Jimmy &amp; The Rhythm Pigs", "text": "Top Jimmy &amp; The Rhythm Pigs\n\nTop Jimmy & The Rhythm Pigs were an American rock and R&B band that emerged from the Los Angeles punk/roots music scene of the late 1970s and early to mid-1980s. Music writer Chris Morris dubbed them \"L.A. punk's house band.\" This scene also produced bands such as The Blasters, X, Los Lobos, The Gun Club, The Knitters, The Circle Jerks, and The Plugz.\n\nTop Jimmy (born James Paul Koncek; died † May 17, 2001) was a Kentucky native who moved to Tacoma, Washington, in his youth. He relocated to Los Angeles at age 15 in November of 1970 -- rejoining his mother, who'd moved to L.A. while Jimmy was serving a stretch in a juvenile institution. His first friend in his new home was the guitarist who later became known as Billy Zoom.\n\nHe got his nickname from working -- and providing handouts -- at a fast-food stand called \"Top Taco\", located across the street from the A&M Records studios in Hollywood.\n\nJimmy began playing out in 1979, with makeshift bands often billed as \"Top Jimmy and the All-Drunk All-Stars\".\n\nAt some point, while still working at Top Taco, he got a job as a part-time roadie for X in that band's early days. At the end of a soundcheck, he sang a version of \"Roadhouse Blues\" by the Doors. That got the attention of the band and Doors member Ray Manzarek, who was then X's producer. In 1980, backed by the surviving members of The Doors, including Manzarek, Jimmy sang \"Roadhouse Blues\" at a special event. That was the publication party for the Jim Morrison biography, \"No One Here Gets Out Alive\", at the Whisky a Go Go. Jimmy also performed the song in X concerts as an encore. One such occasion came in 1981, with Manzarek playing too, at L.A.'s Greek Theatre.\n\nChris Morris described Jimmy's voice as \"big, deep, raw, and throroughly unmannered.\" He'd previously compared the \"leather-voiced shouter\" to Howlin' Wolf in \"Make The Music Go Bang!\", a chronicle of the early L.A. punk scene. A 1984 article had described Jimmy as a cross between Wolf and Sir John Falstaff.\n\nTop Jimmy & The Rhythm Pigs began to form around 1980. They played at numerous area clubs but their gigs at one place in particular gained attention. Starting around August 1981, they had a residency playing \"Blue Mondays\" every Monday night at the Cathay de Grande nightclub at the corner of Argyle and Selma in Hollywood, California. They became an important part of the Los Angeles rock scene.\n\nLive, the lineup usually consisted of:\n\n\nTop Jimmy & The Rhythm Pigs concerts often featured guest appearances by such artists as Tom Waits and Stevie Ray Vaughan. According to the Waits biography \"Lowside of the Road,\" Waits was influenced by the L.A. roots-rock scene but particularly loved the Pigs. He also formed a personal connection with Jimmy.\n\nAlso joining at various times were Albert Collins, Bonnie Bramlett, and Percy Mayfield. In addition, the club included members of the aforementioned scene stalwarts, most notably X and The Blasters.\n\nChris Morris described the \"Blue Mondays\" as \"an infernal scene\" that drew a hard-drinking crowd, and the band matched the audience's consumption. Fisticuffs were common, especially with the short-tempered Carlos Guitarlos. Yet the shows were mainly about dancing and having a good time.\n\nAnother admirer and Cathay guest star was David Lee Roth of Van Halen. Thanks to Diamond Dave, the band and its frontman in particular were saluted in the song \"Top Jimmy\" on the album 1984. Roth frequented the Zero Zero club, where Jimmy tended bar. According to Jimmy, he and Roth had discussed working on an album of country tunes together, but that idea appears never to have gone anywhere.\n\nThe residency at the Cathay ended when proprietor Michael Brennan shut down the club in 1985. Top Jimmy & The Rhythm Pigs remained visible for a time at another L.A. club, Raji's. They also continued to play dates at other spots in the area, such as the Palomino Club, as seen in the fall of 1987.\n\nBy that time, Steve Berlin was long gone. Gil T. had joined Dave Alvin's band in 1986. The \"increasingly erratic\" Carlos Guitarlos left for the Bay Area in 1988.\n\nThe band never went beyond local-hero status for several reasons: internal volatility, absence of discipline, no new material, and substance abuse.\n\nThis, the band's first and only record, was recorded in 1981 but released in 1987 -- after the group had begun to crumble. It got its belated issue on Down There Records, a label run by another L.A. musician, Steve Wynn. The album also bore the logo of Restless Records, then a division of Enigma Records. It was available on vinyl and cassette but never on CD.\n\nD.J. Bonebrake of X and Tony Morales contributed drum parts, so Joey Morales played harmonica. Gene Taylor added piano. Steve Berlin was producer. Colorful liner notes came from Chris Morris.\n\nThe 11 tracks consisted mostly of cover versions of songs by Bob Dylan, Jimi Hendrix, Merle Haggard, Otis Rush, and Johnny Paycheck, among others.\n\nIn its writeup, \"Trouser Press\" cited the LP's \"enthusiastic sweaty abandon.\"\n\n\"Long Distance Call\" by a group billed as \"The Top Jimmy Lineup\" came out in 1994. It was produced by John Doe of X. The bass player was John Bazz of The Blasters.\n\n\"The Good Times Are Killing Me\" came out in 1997 on a small independent label called T.O.N. Records. It was credited just to Top Jimmy. John Bazz and Evan Johns were among the musicians credited.\n\nJimmy contributed vocals to \"Mr. Satellite Man\" on Phil Alvin's 1994 solo album \"County Fair 2000\". He also performed T-Bone Walker's \"Mean Old World\" on the compilation album \"L.A. Ya Ya\".\n\nKoncek died on May 17, 2001 in Las Vegas, Nevada from liver failure. Chris Morris wrote the obituary that appeared in \"L.A. Weekly.\"\n\nMorris kept the memory of Top Jimmy and the Rhythm Pigs alive in another history of the L.A. punk scene, \"Under the Big Black Sun\" (2016). A follow-up book, \"More Fun in the New World\" (2019), went even deeper: three chapters were devoted expressly to Jimmy. The entry from Morris again compared him in voice and persona to Howlin' Wolf. John Doe and Billy Zoom also provided a wealth of anecdotes. Yet another contributor, Maria McKee, said in her chapter that when Jimmy asked her to sing with him on stage when she was just 16, it was a major turning point in her life.\n\n"}
{"id": "1906482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906482", "title": "WMBC-TV", "text": "WMBC-TV\n\nWMBC-TV, virtual channel 63 (UHF digital channel 18), is an independent television station licensed to Newton, New Jersey, United States and serving the New York metropolitan area. The station is owned by the Mountain Broadcasting Corporation. WMBC-TV's studios are located in West Caldwell, New Jersey. Its primary transmitter is located on the campus of Montclair State University, with a secondary transmitter atop the Empire State Building in midtown Manhattan.\n\nThe station's lineup consists of brokered ethnic and religious programs, a half-hour weekday newscast, infomercials and children's programs to satisfy the Federal Communications Commission (FCC)'s \"educational/informational\" requirements.\n\nMountain Broadcasting was founded in 1985 by a group of Korean Americans, led by the Reverend Sun Young Joo of Wayne, New Jersey. The group secured a construction permit from the FCC to build channel 63 in 1987, and the station began operations on April 26, 1993, with a Christian religious format, running mostly programs from FamilyNet. Later in 1993, the station also began running public domain movies and film shorts from Main Street TV, along with FamilyNet programs.\nIn 1996, when New York City-owned WNYC-TV (channel 31, now Ion Television owned-and-operated station WPXN-TV) dropped its ethnic, foreign-language television programming following its sale to private interests, many of these programs were picked up by WMBC-TV. WMBC also dropped FamilyNet and Main Street TV programming and began to air more infomercials and religious shows directly from ministries. By 1997, it ran a blend of religion and infomercials during the day and ethnic shows at night and on Saturdays. It was also running several hours a week of educational kids' shows, and began producing a local newscast.\n\nIn the immediate aftermath of the September 11 attacks, the station temporarily simulcast NBC's flagship station WNBC (channel 4).\nWMBC had an extremely weak over-the-air signal in New York City, but with a new antenna on the Empire State Building, it can be seen more clearly. The station is also carried on most of the cable providers in that market, including Charter Spectrum and Optimum. Its signal was dropped from DirecTV's New York City local stations package on December 31, 2005; however, DirecTV resumed carriage of WMBC in early 2009.\n\nThe station's digital signal is multiplexed:\nWMBC-TV also operates a Mobile DTV feed of subchannel 63.1, broadcasting at 0.92 Mbit/s. This is the lowest bitrate of any New York City television station's mobile feed.\n\nWMBC-TV discontinued regular programming on its analog signal, over UHF channel 63, on February 17, 2009, to conclude the federally mandated transition from analog to digital television. The station's digital signal remained on its pre-transition UHF channel 18, using PSIP to display WMBC-TV's virtual channel as 63 on digital television receivers, which was among the high band UHF channels (52-69) that were removed from broadcasting use as a result of the transition.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1906487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906487", "title": "Yokohama Stadium", "text": "Yokohama Stadium\n\nIt is primarily used for baseball and is the home field of the Yokohama DeNA BayStars. The stadium features dirt around the bases and pitcher's mound, but with dirt colored turf infield and base paths. The entire green portion of the field is also turfed.\n\nIt hosted an Australian rules football match and drew the second largest crowd for such an event outside of Australia.\n\nSantana and Masayoshi Takanaka performed at the stadium on August 2, 1981.\n\nMichael Jackson performed at the stadium during his \"Bad World Tour\" in five sold out concerts, more than any other artist in Yokohama, for a total audience of 240,000 fans (about 48,000 people per concert) on September 25, 26, and 27, 1987 and October 3–4, 1987 and one of the concerts was recorded and released as VHS titled \"Michael Jackson Live in Japan\".\n\nTina Turner played 4 concerts for the first time at the stadium on March 1988 during Break Every Rule Tour.\n\nMadonna performed, on three consecutive nights, during her Blond Ambition World Tour on April 25–27, 1990. Her show on the 27th was filmed & later released on July 25, 1990 as a VHS & Laserdisc exclusively in Japan, titled \"Blond Ambition – Japan Tour 90\".\n\nLuna Sea performed a Christmas concert here on December 23 as the final performance of their 1996 tour. There they announced a yearlong hiatus for the members to perform solo activities. The concert was later released as the \"Mafuyu no Yagai\" DVD in 2003.\n\nNana Mizuki performed a concert here on August 3 as the final performance of her 2014 domestic tour, which drew a crowd of about 32,000 fans, making it the biggest local artist event ever held here.\n\nIn September 2014, ONE OK ROCK held a 2-day concert in front of a crowd of 60,000 people called \"Mighty Long Fall Live at Yokohama Stadium 2014\".\n\nIt will be the baseball and softball venue at the 2020 Summer Olympics.\n\n"}
{"id": "1906491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906491", "title": "WRNN-TV", "text": "WRNN-TV\n\nWRNN-TV, virtual channel 48 (UHF digital channel 25), is an independent television station licensed to New Rochelle, New York, United States and serving the New York City television market. The station is owned by WRNN-TV Associates. WRNN-TV's studios are located in Rye Brook, New York, and its transmitter is located at One World Trade Center. WRNN-TV airs a schedule of mainly infomercials, religious programming, regional and international news programs, and some syndicated shows.\n\nChannel 62 was first used in the New York metropolitan area by W62AA, which was founded in 1970 by Screen Gems Broadcasting, a sub-division of Columbia Pictures as a translator for independent station WNJU-TV (channel 47). It was one of the many translator stations serving the entire New York City area. By 1975, WNJU-TV and most of the major stations in New York had moved their transmitters to the World Trade Center, but W62AA remained at the Empire State Building to expand its signal farther north of the city and the surrounding area. With the introduction of the cell phone developed by Bell Labs in 1982, all upper band channels were scheduled to be displaced for cell phone use. But before that happened, WNJU-TV expanded its signal farther north, making W62AA obsolete as a backup. W62AA was taken off the air in 1983; that year, a construction permit for a full-power television station in Kingston, New York was issued to a group led by Albany-area businessman Edward Swyer. It would be two years before the channel 62 allocation would be used again.\n\nChannel 62 returned to the air from Kingston on December 15, 1985 as WTZA. It was formatted as an independent station serving the middle Hudson Valley region of New York State. However, by virtue of the outer range of its signal, WTZA also served the Capital District area and the northern suburbs of New York City. The call letters designated the coverage area, and also served as the station's slogan – \"From the Tappan Zee to Albany\". The upper Hudson Valley area was one of the largest in the country to lack its own television stations, this due to its proximity to both the New York and Albany–Schenectady–Troy television markets.\nOwned by Swyer's group, which by then had changed its name to WTZA-TV Associates, WTZA was programmed as a traditional independent station, with movies, off-network reruns, children's shows, and public affairs programs filling its airtime. Sports programming was also included, mostly high school and college contests, and later Army football games. The station also ran a small news operation, led by former CNN executive producer Gerry Harrington, which was relatively successful given the underserved nature of its coverage area. The weather portion of the newscast gave full forecasts for both New York City and Albany, even though the station was not on the air in either city.\n\nThough WTZA was still doing well in its market, the station had begun to struggle prior to the sale due to the station being shut out of obtaining rights to many syndicated programs by larger stations in New York City and Albany. Being licensed within the New York City market did not help the station's cause either, and in the early 1990s WTZA lost most of its higher-profile syndicated programs as the New York City outlets claimed territorial rights. In 1993, Swyer and his group sold the station to Harrison, New York businessman Richard French Jr. French soon made WTZA into a family-run operation, with his wife and three sons involved in various aspects of the station. His oldest son, Richard French III, was appointed as WTZA's general manager and would eventually become the face of the station.\n\nIn early 1995, most of WTZA's remaining general entertainment programs were replaced with infomercials. In October 1995, the call letters were changed to WRNN-TV, and the station shifted into a news-heavy operation. With the new call sign also doubling as the on-air slogan–\"Your Regional News Network\", WRNN initially produced news programming seven days a week, and 24 hours a day on weekdays. Its coverage area now included the entire Hudson Valley region, and news bureaus were established in the Capital District and Long Island, within New York state, and in the neighboring states of New Jersey and Connecticut. The news product, however, was tilted with a lean towards the French family's home base of Westchester County, and a philosophical shift to the left. Richard French III, WRNN's general manager, news director, and host of a nightly call-in talk program, had been active in the New York state Democratic party prior to his father's purchase of WTZA. The station was an affiliate of All News Channel and used stories from that service to augment its national coverage.\n\nBudgetary concerns led to a reduction of news programming in 1999, to weekday evenings only. But WRNN decided the time had come for the station to target New York City, the first time a station on channel 62 served the entire New York City area since W62AA left the air in 1983, albeit this time for cable subscribers. The bureaus in New Jersey and Connecticut were also closed down. Soon thereafter, the operation placed a greater emphasis on New York City news than there had been before, in spite of WRNN's invisible profile within the Five Boroughs. The over-the-air channel 62 signal barely reached the Bronx, the city's northernmost borough, and neither of the city's major cable systems (operated by the predecessors of today's Spectrum and Optimum TV) carried the station. WRNN opened a studio in Manhattan and was successful in getting its evening news shows simulcast on a low-power station there, though it was mostly an effort to gain must-carry coverage on local cable.\n\nThe shift towards New York City resulted in decreased coverage for its main signal area–for example, WRNN's weather forecasts did not include areas north of Kingston, the station's city of license. Oddly enough, the station applied for must-carry in the entire Albany market several years after the station stopped covering the area outside politics. Within about two years, the simulcast in New York City was gone. It would take a few more years before WRNN would appear on New York City cable, and as part of satellite provider DirecTV's local station package. WRNN opened a new main studio facility in the village of Rye Brook in 2005, though it has retained its facilities in Kingston and Manhattan.\n\nOver the years, WRNN's news offerings have fluctuated. Currently, the station airs a combination of regional and international news, including \"Richard French Live\", and \"Newsline\", the English-language newscast of Japanese public broadcaster NHK. The remainder of WRNN's airtime is mainly filled with paid programming. In June 2009, WRNN began producing news programming for FiOS1, a news channel that is carried by Verizon FiOS systems in the region. In August 2019, Verizon announced that it would not renew its contract with RNN to produce the network's news programming; as a result, FiOS1 ceased operations on November 13, 2019, two days earlier than originally planned.\n\nIn the Federal Communications Commission (FCC)'s spectrum incentive auction, WRNN's broadcast spectrum was sold for $212 million—one of the highest, publicly-announced sale prices in the process. The station's owner claims that it will continue to \"broadcast from someone else's tower location before the end of the auction transition period.\"\n\nOn February 16, 2018, in a FCC filing (Filing Number 0000042455), WRNN stated that it had entered into a channel sharing agreement with Fox Television Stations and their Secaucus, New Jersey-licensed MyNetworkTV flagship station, WWOR-TV (channel 9). As WWOR's signal does not sufficiently reach Kingston, WRNN has changed its city of license to New Rochelle, New York. WRNN began channel-sharing with WWOR on May 1, 2018.\n\nThe station's digital signal is multiplexed:\nOn March 6, 2007, WRNN agreed to an affiliation contract with the Funimation Channel, a network which broadcasts Japanese anime cartoons, to run its programming on digital subchannel 48.3. This affiliation ended in July 2009. As of August 2009, WRNN used its 48.2 subchannel to rebroadcast the English service of China Central Television, CCTV-9; by January 2010, it was switched to another China-based English-language network, Blue Ocean Network.\n\nOn March 1, 2010, digital channel 48.2 began carrying the Spanish-language network Mega TV. However, on August 1, 2011, WRNN dropped Mega TV and replaced it with the Qatar-based Al Jazeera English. One hour of local programming and station-provided E/I programming is scheduled in off periods to meet FCC guidelines. Al Jazeera English was removed on August 20, 2013 when it was pulled from US distribution due to the launch of Al Jazeera America. The channel then mirrored the programming of the primary WRNN channel. \n\nOn July 1, 2011, WRNN activated its fourth subchannel for Global Christian Network, a Christian-based religious television network which also aired on WEBR-CD (channels 17.1 and 17.3) in New York City. Despite the duplication in programming, each station technically serves a different market and are not commonly owned. GCN has been removed from the 4th slot and is not in use at present. In February 2012, WRNN activated its fifth subchannel to carry NHK World, the English language international broadcasting service of Japan's public broadcaster, NHK.\n\nIn 2004, the FCC opened an early digital conversion window for full-power UHF stations located between channels 52 and 69 in the analog UHF band, as long as the stations all met certain qualifying criteria. This portion of the television spectrum was slated to be reassigned to other communications purposes following the June 2009 transition. WRNN applied for FCC permission to shut off its analog signal on channel 62 and broadcast solely on its assigned digital frequency, UHF channel 48. The FCC granted the request on July 8, 2004, and WRNN's analog channel 62 went silent later that year. Although stations were required to have their virtual digital channel match the channel allocation assigned to their analog signal, using PSIP to display WRNN-TV's virtual channel 48 on digital television receivers.\n\nThe early analog shutoff authority was granted during a time when the full transition from analog to digital television had been tentatively scheduled for the end of 2006. Full-powered analog television broadcasts in the United States ended on June 12, 2009.\n\nIn January 2007, it was announced that WRNN and \"The Journal News\" would partner to create a two-hour \"daily in-depth newscast\" titled \"Newscenter Now\" beginning in mid-March 2007. The newscast was broadcast from WRNN's Rye Brook studios and aired weekday evenings from 5:00 to 7:00 p.m. Its main anchors were Christa Lauri, Andrew Whitman, Stacy Ann Gooden and Ben Sosenko.\n\n\"Newscenter Now\" was dropped after the September 27, 2008 broadcast; it was replaced with syndicated programming and the locally produced \"Real Politics Live\". The \"Newscenter Now\" name was also used on a half-hour-long newscast targeted to Long Island, which has since been dropped from its schedule.\n\nWRNN used to air competitions of local college sports teams. It previously aired Army football before Army signed a television contract with ESPN to put all its games there (aside from the Army-Navy Game, which airs on CBS). It also in the past has aired Manhattan College basketball games. WTZA was also the home for all Marist College basketball home games from 1986 to 1995. Brian Kenny was the play-by-play announcer during this time.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1906495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906495", "title": "Software rot", "text": "Software rot\n\nSoftware rot, also known as bit rot, code rot, software erosion, software decay or software entropy is either a slow deterioration of software quality over time or its diminishing responsiveness that will eventually lead to software becoming faulty, unusable, or in need of upgrade. This is not a physical phenomenon: the software does not actually decay, but rather suffers from a lack of being responsive and updated with respect to the changing environment in which it resides.\n\nThe \"Jargon File\", a compendium of hacker lore, defines \"bit rot\" as a jocular explanation for the degradation of a software program over time even if \"nothing has changed\"; the idea being this is almost as if the bits that make up the program were subject to radioactive decay.\n\nSeveral factors are responsible for software rot, including changes to the environment in which the software operates, degradation of compatibility between parts of the software itself, and the appearance of bugs in unused or rarely used code.\n\nWhen changes occur in the program's environment, particularly changes which the designer of the program did not anticipate, the software may no longer operate as originally intended. For example, many early computer game designers used the CPU clock speed as a timer in their games, but newer CPU clocks were faster, so the gameplay speed increased accordingly, making the games less usable over time.\n\nThere are changes in the environment not related to the program's designer, but its users. Initially, a user could bring the system into working order, and have it working flawlessly for a certain amount of time. But, when the system stops working correctly, or the users want to access the configuration controls, they cannot repeat that initial step because of the different context and the unavailable information (password lost, missing instructions, or simply a hard-to-manage user interface that was first configured by trial and error). Information Architect Jonas Söderström has named this concept \"Onceability\", and defines it as \"the quality in a technical system that prevents a user from restoring the system, once it has failed\".\n\nInfrequently used portions of code, such as document filters or interfaces designed to be used by other programs, may contain bugs that go unnoticed. With changes in user requirements and other external factors, this code may be executed later, thereby exposing the bugs and making the software appear less functional.\n\nNormal maintenance of software and systems may also cause software rot. In particular, when a program contains multiple parts which function at arm's length from one another, failing to consider how changes to one part affect the others may introduce bugs.\n\nIn some cases, this may take the form of libraries that the software uses being changed in a way which adversely affects the software. If the old version of a library that previously worked with the software can no longer be used due to conflicts with other software or security flaws that were found in the old version, there may no longer be a viable version of a needed library for the program to use.\n\nSoftware rot is usually classified as being either dormant rot or active rot.\n\nSoftware that is not currently being used gradually becomes unusable as the remainder of the application changes. Changes in user requirements and the software environment also contribute to the deterioration.\n\nSoftware that is being continuously modified may lose its integrity over time if proper mitigating processes are not consistently applied. However, much software requires continuous changes to meet new requirements and correct bugs, and re-engineering software each time a change is made is rarely practical. This creates what is essentially an evolution process for the program, causing it to depart from the original engineered design. As a consequence of this and a changing environment, assumptions made by the original designers may be invalidated, introducing bugs.\n\nIn practice, adding new features may be prioritized over updating documentation; without documentation, however, it is possible for specific knowledge pertaining to parts of the program to be lost. To some extent, this can be mitigated by following best current practices for coding conventions.\n\nActive software rot slows once an application is near the end of its commercial life and further development ceases. Users often learn to work around any remaining software bugs, and the behaviour of the software becomes consistent as nothing is changing.\n\nMany seminal programs from the early days of AI research have suffered from irreparable software rot. For example, the original SHRDLU program (an early natural language understanding program) cannot be run on any modern day computer or computer simulator, as it was developed during the days when LISP and PLANNER were still in development stage, and thus uses non-standard macros and software libraries which do not exist anymore.\n\nSuppose an administrator creates a forum using open source forum software, and then heavily modifies it by adding new features and options. This process requires extensive modifications to existing code and deviation from the original functionality of that software.\n\nFrom here, there are several ways software rot can affect the system:\n\nRefactoring is a means of addressing the problem of software rot. It is described as the process of rewriting existing code to improve its structure without affecting its external behaviour. This includes removing dead code and rewriting sections that have been modified extensively and no longer work efficiently. Care must be taken not to change the software's external behaviour, as this could introduce incompatibilities and thereby itself contribute to software rot.\n\n"}
{"id": "1906497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906497", "title": "Sapporo Dome", "text": "Sapporo Dome\n\nSapporo Dome opened in 2001 with 41,580 seats. This stadium hosted 3 games during the 2002 FIFA World Cup, Germany vs Saudi Arabia, Argentina vs England and Italy vs Ecuador; all three matches were in the first round.\n\nThe Dome hosted the opening ceremonies to the 2007 FIS Nordic World Ski Championships on February 22 and hosted the closing ceremonies of the championships on March 4. It also made history as being the first venue where both indoor and nighttime skiing events took place for the first time on a world championship or Winter Olympic Games level with competitions in the cross country skiing sprints (men's and women's individual, and men's and women's team) and the cross country portion of the 7.5 km sprint event in the nordic combined. In order to generate snow, the stadium used its turf conversion hovering system to facilitate the snow making process for the skiing competitions. The opening ceremony featured Maki Ohguro, a local artist from Sapporo, Japanese drum demonstrations and other performances paying tributes to local customs and traditions. For the championships, seating capacity was reduced to 30,000.\n\nThe Dome was used as a super special stage in Rally Japan in both 2008 and 2010.\n\nIn late 2009, renovations with the possibility of increasing the capacity up to 53,796 were finished. These renovations also included space for more food outlets, an extra video screen, two extra changing rooms (to accommodate preseason matches in the NFL International Series, which have up to 75 players per team) and further media area as part of new office buildings attached to the stadium. As part of these renovations, the surface area of the arena itself was decreased to allow for more seating.\n\nThe Dome switches between two entirely different surfaces: Baseball games are played on an underlying artificial turf field, while football games are held on a grass pitch that slides into and out of the stadium as needed.\n\nConversion from baseball to football begins with the storage of the baseball field's artificial turf. Once finished, a set of lower bowl bleachers rotate from an angled position for baseball to a parallel position. A set of main bowl seats on one end of the dome then retracts, and the football pitch is slid into the stadium. The lower bowl is then rotated 90 degrees. Conversion from football to baseball occurs in reverse. Due to the retraction of seats, the Stadium has a capacity of 40,476 for baseball games.\n\nOther stadiums that feature sliding pitches include the GelreDome in the Netherlands, Veltins-Arena in Germany, the split pitch of London's Tottenham Hotspur Stadium, and State Farm Stadium in Glendale, Arizona, United States; however, unlike these four facilities, the Sapporo Dome has a fixed roof.\n\n\n\nOther domed stadiums in Japan:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1906500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906500", "title": "Player Manager", "text": "Player Manager\n\nPlayer Manager was a football management game, released in 1990. It was notable for being the first game to combine both managing the team and playing as a single player. The match engine borrowed heavily from the \"Kick Off\" match engine, which was developed by Dino Dini and Anco Software, who also created \"Player Manager\". This was the first in a series of games called \"Player Manager\".\n\nA remake of the game was in development for iPhone. but was shelved and never released. A remake with the original graphics by Steve Screech has been developed and released on Google Play Store and elected as one of the best 3 football managerial games on Android\n\nPlayers would take control of a third division side as player-manager, acting in both managing and playing aspects. The latter option was optional, since players could choose whether to control the player only or the entire team from the outset. They can opt to do neither, if they choose not to play the matches personally.\n\nThe Player Manager universe is structured somewhat differently from real-life football of the same period. Many notable clubs are not featured in the game, as the programmers chose to have 10 teams in the top two divisions, and 12 in the third and fourth divisions, presumably due to memory constraints. There is also only one domestic cup competition. And, as with the majority of the football games of the time, the game is notable now for featuring no European football, due to English clubs exclusion from European competition owing to the Heysel Stadium disaster. \n\nFurther reference to recent problems in real-life football come courtesy of news items that make reference to the Bradford City stadium fire, and the general problems experienced in relation to football hooliganism at the time, particularly the aforementioned Heysel. This is the first of several eccentricities in the game; if the team operated by the player attempts to hoard money, they will experience consistent fires and fines due to hooliganism, as a mechanism to keep their bank balance down.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1906505", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906505", "title": "Herman, Arkansas", "text": "Herman, Arkansas\n\nHerman is an unincorporated community in Craighead County, Arkansas, United States. Its location is .\n\nThe locale of Herman began as a railroad stop, with the post office being called Bellefield. The name of the railroad stop was changed to Herman by Francis John Borgman, who owned a lumber mill and ran the post office at this railroad stop which was right at his house, after his son John Allen Borgman had a baby boy named Herman in 1898.\n\nIn the early 1900s, Frank Borgman petitioned the United States Postal Service to also change the post office to Herman but they declined, responding that it was too similar to the post office of Harman nearby. But in 1920, after Herman Francis Borgman married, the post office changed its name to Herman.\n"}
{"id": "1906506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906506", "title": "The Fourth Reich (EP)", "text": "The Fourth Reich (EP)\n\nThe Fourth Reich was an EP released by the Icelandic new wave group Þeyr through Mjöt in 12\" vinyl format.\n\nFor this work Þeyr recurred to a stronger use of percussion and rhythmic efforts than previous works, where the songs \"Metamorphosis\" and \"Blood\" outstands due to their deep percussive orientation.<br>\nThis single was released in the UK through Shout.\n\nThis EP was released in the UK through the label Shout but its original front cover was banned and replaced by a new one with black-colored background and just the title in red gothic characters. The name \"The Fourth Reich\" could lead to confusion because the title seems to suggest a continuation of the Third Reich. Actually, the image cover depicts Austrian psychiatrist and psychoanalysis Wilhelm Reich with a red armband similar to that used by the Nazis, but in this case, the armband had the symbol of the orgone physics, which represented duality and its origins in unity, referred by Reich as functionalism.<br>\nAs a matter of fact, this release was a tribute to Reich, since Þeyr members were interested in his works. The back cover of this record also featured an image of Reich being escorted from the courthouse in Portland, Maine when he was arrested in 1956.\n\nThis image is accompanied by a German inscription which reads the following:<br>\n\"Gemäss der Verordung des Reichspräsidenten vom 28. Februar 1933 ist die Verteilung aller ausländischen Veröffentlichungen der politisch-psychologischen Reiche der Verleger für Sexualpolitik (Verlag für Sexualpolitik, Kopenhagen, Dänemark, ebenso, Prag, Tchechoslowakei und Zürich, Schweiz) im Reich bis auf weiteres verboten.\"*\n\nTranslation: \"According to the order by the Reich’s president on February 28, 1933 the distribution of all foreigners' publications pertaining the polito-psychological topics (Publishers for sexual politics, Copenhagen, Denmark, the same as Prague, Czechoslovakia and Zurich, Switzerland) has been forbidden from now on in the Reich.\"\n\nThe fragment refers to Reich’s book \"Mass Psychology of Fascism\" (1933), in which he claimed that fascism was the result of sexual repression. This book was banned soon after its publication in the same year that the Nazis took power.\n\nPerformers:\n\nIn 1982 Þeyr did a television performance that has been considered as their first and unique clip. This video shows the band playing on the set accompanied by red-colored war footage that is intended to highlight the lyrics of the song. Magnús Guðmundsson, the vocalist appeared wearing make up and a cap, while bassist Hilmar Ö. Agnarsson is twisting around out of control. Guitarist Guðlaugur K. Óttarsson was frenziedly dancing at left of screen wearing a nightgown, while the other guitarist, Þorsteinn Magnússon was absent and replaced with a dummy. Drummer Sigtryggur Baldursson appeared in the back.<br>\nThis video clip was widely unavailable until it was uploaded in MPEG2 format on the Internet in 2005.\n\n"}
{"id": "1906507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906507", "title": "22-20s", "text": "22-20s\n\n22-20s are an English blues rock band, formed in 2002 in Sleaford, Lincolnshire. The band originally disbanded in December 2005 before reforming in 2008 and releasing \"Shake/Shiver/Moan\" in 2010 and \"Got It If You Want It\" in 2012. They disbanded for a second time in early 2013, before reforming again in late 2019.\n\nThe band's songs have regularly featured in adverts and films, most notably \"Devil in Me\" which was featured on the Vauxhall Astra television commercial in early 2016 and later a commercial for the \"Racing Post\". They have also featured on numerous high-profile soundtracks, including the Guy Ritchie film \"RocknRolla\", \"London Boulevard\", \"Cry Wolf\", \"Stoned\",\"One Tree Hill,\" and \"\".\n\nFourteen miles apart in the English county of Lincolnshire, Martin Trimble grew up in Heckington, and Glen Bartup, Fulbeck, and met at Carre's Grammar School, Sleaford. In 1997 aged 14, they bought their first guitars together from a shop owned by Trimble's uncle who would come to visit at Christmas and bring with him blues records. The pair immersed themselves in blues artists such as Muddy Waters and Buddy Guy and later Bob Dylan, The Rolling Stones and T. Rex.\n\nThe duo began playing across Lincolnshire and the north of England together on the blues circuit in Crossfire, who later changed their name to Martin Trimble & Outside Help. The band also featured bassist Dave Wheeldon and a number of drummers including Rob Flanagan, Dave Raeburn of The Hoax and Mark Barrett of The Hoax who joined the band in July 2000. Their sets were composed primarily of blues covers, and they toured the country and regularly performed at blues festivals in Maryport, Colne and on the continent in Germany, Belgium and the Netherlands, before splitting in November 2001. Trimble then formed The Infidels with Natasha Allan and local session musician Gary Rudd, and The Martin Trimble band with former Outside Help/The Hoax drummer Mark Barrett and Bartup on bass, who had previously played guitar. Trimble would also occasionally perform acoustic solo gigs and as duo with Bartup.\n\nAged 19, Trimble, Bartup and Barrett recorded a four-song demo in Mansfield, Nottinghamshire featuring Such A Fool, 22 Days and Devil in Me, as 22-20s, named after the Skip James song \"22-20 Blues\", and began playing gigs more focused on original material with the occasional Muddy Waters cover. With the departure of Barrett following a record deal with a blues label that did not work out, the band toured across Europe in May 2002, for which they played with future Dakota drummer Mick Nelson, James Irving, previously of unsigned Lincoln band Thunder Monkey joined the band in August 2002, prior to the band getting re-signed.\n\nTrimble would later go on to comment that the band found performing on the blues circuit restricting as the audiences, who were mostly in their 50s, had a very defined idea of what the genre was, and when performing their own songs they would often have promoters coming up to them saying \"You can't play that! That's not blues!\" and described the scene as being \"a bit cabaret\". Bartup revealed that prior to recruiting Irving, they had to use session drummers much older than themselves who they had to pay to rehearse and also described the blues circuit as \"all sort of Blues Brothers and guys in pork pie hats\".\n\nThe band first signed a publishing deal with EMI subsidiary Heavenly Records, after the band had sent a demo to the Heavenly Social venue in Nottingham which was owned by the label, and the label founder Jeff Barrett went to see the band supporting Wilko Johnson. Following a bidding war between roughly 30 record companies that was described as \"the A&R scramble of the century\", which involved an infamous packed gig at the Dublin Castle in Camden, being flown over to the US to meet with record company executives, and a gig where the bosses of every major American record label turned up, the band also signed a record deal with Heavenly partly because \"he (Barrett) was the one guy from a record company who didn’t bother taking us out for lunch, he just took us around to his office and we got absolutely hammered till about three in the morning listening to soul records\". The band then re-located to Oxford, where they recruited Charly Coombes (brother of Supergrass' Gaz and Rob Coombes) on keyboards for live duties, who subsequently joined full-time during recording sessions for the first studio album.\n\nThe band released their debut single, \"Such A Fool\", as a limited edition 7\" in April 2003. This was followed up by the six-track live EP \"05/03\" (recorded May 2003) in September 2003, a decision which was influenced by the fact they were first noticed on the strength of their live show. The band then released their self-titled studio debut album in September 2004. Although the band finished recording the album in January of that year, there was a delay in getting the album mixed by Rich Costey. The album was produced by Brendan Lynch who had previously worked with Paul Weller and Primal Scream. Bartup commented that \"we got him because he'd worked with Primal Scream and that was what caught our ear when a few names were bandied around – we didn't want an album that sounded like it'd been made in the 60s\". Trimble stated that \"\"we wanted to make a rock 'n' roll record that wasn't about wearing Converse and becoming junkies – and I think we did that. Both releases were critically acclaimed. They toured the UK, US, Australia, Japan and Europe and supported Oasis, Supergrass, Graham Coxon, The Black Crowes and Kings of Leon.\n\nAfter cancelling performances at V Festival, Pukkelpop, Cambridge and London reportedly due to illness on 16 August 2005, it was announced on 25 January 2006 that the band had split whilst in the process of working on their second album in New York before the new year. Trimble posted a lengthy statement on the band's website saying that \"initially most bands wear their influences on their sleeve but for a number of reasons we've not been able to go beyond that first stage\" and that he was \"no longer comfortable with people's perception of what we represent\". It was believed that Trimble was set to pursue a solo career.\n\nAlthough the official press release claimed that the split had been amicable, it was later claimed that Trimble had wanted to change the direction of the band much to the reluctance of the other band members and this led to the band splitting. On splitting the band up and the effect it would have on his career, Trimble stated that \"Quite frankly, I don't care if the next record sells one copy as long as it's a record I can be proud of, because of all the regrets I have, quite a few appear on the last record that I had my name on\".\n\nFollowing the split, Trimble stayed in New York while the rest of the band returned home. He posted on the band's official MySpace page that he was working on new material with Bartup and suggested that he would be touring later in the year. He also confirmed that what he was working on would not be a solo album and that a new website would launch soon. The MySpace page was then deleted and a website never materialised.\n\nIrving went on to play with Lincoln band Fuzzbox Music, before moving to London where he worked with Asylum with Cass Brown of Skunk Anansie, Hungarian band The Puzzle and Richmond band Marner Brown, who he left and was replaced by Coz Kerrigan previously of Larrikin Love before re-joining 22-20s.\n\nCoombes formed Missing Pieces with Richard Walters, and toured as second guitarist and backing vocalist with brothers Gaz and Rob in Supergrass, before forming and fronting his own band Charly Coombes & The New Breed.\n\nThe band reformed in late 2008 after the band's former manager offered Trimble and Bartup some studio time, and in need of a drummer called up Irving to play on the sessions. At the time, the band did not know whether the tracks would ever be released or if they did, whether they would be as 22-20s. They were then offered a gig at the Heavenly Festival in September 2008 at the Royal Festival Hall in London at the request of Heavenly Records. The band were joined by second guitarist Dan Hare, an old school friend and formerly of fellow Sleaford band The Jubilees.\nCoombes was not present and is no longer involved with the band. Despite debuting a new song at the gig, a spokesman for the band claimed that there were no plans for the band to continue beyond the gig.\n\nThe band then secretly toured England under the pseudonym Bitter Pills (the title of one of the band's new songs) in September 2009, playing venues such as Oxford Jericho Tavern, Hull Adelphi, Derby Rockhouse and Northampton Picturedrome previewing new material.\n\nWith no announcement, they released their first new material in the single \"Latest Heartbreak\" via ATO Records subsidiary TBD Records (US home of Radiohead) digitally in the US on 29 December 2009. A 4 track EP \"Latest Heartbreak Live EP\" was then released digitally in the US on 9 March 2010.\n\nA new album entitled \"Shake/Shiver/Moan\" was released in May 2010 in Japan via Yoshimoto R and C, where it went straight to No. 2 in the International Rock Chart, and in the US in June. The album was recorded in 2009 and produced by Ian Davenport who has previously worked with Supergrass, Badly Drawn Boy and more recently Band of Skulls. To promote the album, the band released live in the studio takes of new songs via their YouTube channel, \"Filter Magazine\" in the US and \"Rockin' On\" in Japan.\n\nAs well as performing on The Daily Habit on Fuel TV, the band have toured extensively in the US with The Whigs, Band of Skulls, Alberta Cross and Cage the Elephant, and returned to Japan to play at Fuji Rock Festival.\n\nIn October 2010, the band released the \"Latest Heartbreak Live EP\" in the UK via iTunes and undertook their first tour of England as 22-20s for five years including two sold-out shows at the Duke of Wellington in Lincoln. The band also released \"Latest Outtakes\" in Japan, featuring some of the first tracks they recorded when they reformed and outtakes from the \"Shake/Shiver/Moan\" sessions, and played four shows across the country. The band announced that, during November and December 2010, they would be re-locating to Minneapolis in the US, where Trimble now resides with his wife Katie Deatrick, Director of Publicity of the band's old US label Astralwerks, to start writing their next album.\n\nIn February 2011, a PledgeMusic campaign was launched to release \"Shake/Shiver/Moan\" outside Japan and the US. This new exclusive version of the album included the \"Latest Heartbreak Live EP\" and \"Latest Outtakes\" releases as bonus tracks.\n\nIn March 2012, the band released their third studio album, \"Got It If You Want It\" in the new year. in Japan, with a release in the US on TBD Records set for 24 July 2012. With three band members permanently based in Minneapolis, the band began playing sporadic shows in the region in March/April 2012 as a three piece, with guitarist Dan Hare still in London. On 3 May 2012 it was announced that Hare had left the band due to financial and geographical constraints, with the band stating they would continue as a three piece. The album was never released outside Japan and the band did not tour in support of it. In November 2012, Trimble revealed the band stopped touring due to the birth of his daughter 14 months earlier and also admitted that 2012 had been \"a lean year in terms of writing\", but hoped to have a new album finished by Summer 2013.\n\nOn 27 March 2014, the band announced on Facebook that they had split up the previous year, stating that they \"took a break from it this time last year and subsequently all moved in different directions\".\n\nMartin Trimble and his wife Katie owned and ran No. 6 Shop, which imported and sold English antiques. In 2016, Trimble briefly performed with singing-drummer fronted band Dead Man Boys Choir, who played locally around Minneapolis. He played guitar and sang backing vocals with the band, who removed all of their social media presence without releasing any material. In 2017, Trimble moved back to Sleaford with his wife and children. He currently plays drums in blues cover band Black Cabinet, with the band being fronted by singer-guitarist Gary Jobling.\n\nJames Irving, who currently resides in Saint Paul, Minnesota, now works as an estate agent/real estate broker and co-owns Grand Realty Property Management. In 2017, Irving formed the duo LowRay with singer and guitarist (and also business partner) Dan Fowlds, and released debut EP \"Columbia\" in May of the same year. He co-writes and plays drums on the material.\n\nGlen Bartup currently works in the Department of Psychology at University of Edinburgh.\n\nDan Hare self-released material as Latin Wolves in 2015, and has since gone on to work as a guitar teacher. He is currently based in Leeds. When questioned on the whereabouts of the rest of the band in December 2017, Hare responded that \"there may have been some contact with the others recently\".\n\nOn 9 December 2019, the band's official Facebook page was updated with their logo. On 15 December, a post confirming a recording session at Superfly Studios in Newark. The lineup of the band is currently unknown, however drummer James Irving is still in the US and the band are currently working with session player Wayne Proctor.\n\n"}
{"id": "1906509", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906509", "title": "Clube Esportivo Nova Esperança", "text": "Clube Esportivo Nova Esperança\n\nClube Esportivo Nova Esperança, or CENE as they are usually called, was a Brazilian football team founded on December 13, 1999 in Jardim and transferred to Campo Grande in Mato Grosso do Sul. The team is owned by Rev. Moon's Unification Church, as is Atlético Sorocaba.\n\nThe club was founded by a group of farm employees. They used to play football as a hobby on the weekends. The club was founded with the help of employees of other farms and local businessmen. The team was initially an amateur team, but the good performance of the squad brought investments, and on December 13, 1999, the club became a professional team, adopting the name Clube Esportivo Nova Esperança. They won the Campeonato Sul-Mato-Grossense in 2002, in 2004, in 2005, and then won again in 2011.\n\nCENE's home stadium is the Arena da Paz, also known as \"Olho do Furação\". It has a maximum capacity of 1,500 people.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1906512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906512", "title": "Skutari", "text": "Skutari\n\nSkutari may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1906515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906515", "title": "List of Mir expeditions", "text": "List of Mir expeditions\n\nThis is a chronological list of principal expeditions to \"Mir\", a Soviet/Russian space station in low Earth orbit from 1986–2001. All principal \"Mir\" crews (those that were resident long-term on the station) were named , where \"n\" is sequentially increased with each expedition. Visiting expeditions, which made short-term visits to the station during handovers between principal expeditions were named , and are excluded from this list (see List of human spaceflights to Mir for details). \"Mir\" commanders are listed in \"italics\". \"Duration\" refers to the crew and does not always correspond to \"Flight up\" or \"Flight down\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1906516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906516", "title": "Jack Johnson (Canadian politician)", "text": "Jack Johnson (Canadian politician)\n\nJohn McLellan Johnson (August 20, 1930 – June 25, 2009) was a politician in Ontario, Canada. He was a Progressive Conservative member who served in the Legislative Assembly of Ontario from 1975 to 1990. He represented the ridings of Wellington—Dufferin—Peel and Wellington.\n\nJohnson was educated at Ryerson Polytechnical School in Toronto, and worked as a retail merchant. Johnson married Marie Lynn \"Marnie\" Johnston in 1951. She died in Mount Forest in September 2008. Together they raised three children.\n\nHe was a councillor in the Town of Mount Forest from 1968 to 1973, and mayor from 1973 to 1975.\n\nHe was elected to the Ontario legislature in the 1975 provincial election, defeating Liberal candidate Ted Sibbald by 712 votes in the riding of Wellington—Dufferin—Peel. He was re-elected by greater margins in the elections of 1977, 1981 and 1985. In the 1987 provincial election, he defeated Liberal challenger Bill Benson by 463 votes in the redistributed riding of Wellington.\n\nJohnson served as a backbench supporter of the governments of Bill Davis and Frank Miller from 1975 to 1985. He served as Chair of Caucus 1986-1990 and Deputy Opposition Whip. He did not seek re-election in 1990.\n\nJohnson was appointed to the Alcohol and Gaming Commission of Ontario Board of Directors in 2003, during the administration of Conservative Premier Ernie Eves.\n"}
{"id": "1906523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906523", "title": "Carl Størmer", "text": "Carl Størmer\n\nFredrik Carl Mülertz Størmer (3 September 1874 – 13 August 1957) was a Norwegian mathematician and astrophysicist. In mathematics, he is known for his work in number theory, including the calculation of and Størmer's theorem on consecutive smooth numbers. In physics, he is known for studying the movement of charged particles in the magnetosphere and the formation of aurorae, and for his book on these subjects, \"From the Depths of Space to the Heart of the Atom\". He worked for many years as a professor of mathematics at the University of Oslo in Norway. A crater on the far side of the moon is named after him.\n\nStørmer was born on 3 September 1874 in Skien, the only child of a pharmacist Georg Ludvig Størmer (1842–1930) and Elisabeth Amalie Johanne Henriette Mülertz (1844–1916). His uncle was the entrepreneur and inventor Henrik Christian Fredrik Størmer.\n\nStørmer studied mathematics at the Royal Frederick University in Kristiania, Norway (now the University of Oslo, in Oslo) from 1892 to 1897, earning the rank of candidatus realium in 1898. He then studied with Picard, Poincaré, Painlevé, Jordan, Darboux, and Goursat at the Sorbonne in Paris from 1898 to 1900. He returned to Kristiania in 1900 as a research fellow in mathematics, visited the University of Göttingen in 1902, and returned to Kristiania in 1903, where he was appointed as a professor of mathematics, a position he held for 43 years. After he received a permanent position in Kristiania, Størmer published his subsequent writings under a shortened version of his name, Carl Størmer. In 1918, he was elected as the first president of the newly formed Norwegian Mathematical Society. He participated regularly in Scandinavian mathematical congresses, and was president of the 1936 International Congress of Mathematicians in Oslo (from 1924 the new name of Kristiania). Størmer was also affiliated with the Institute of Theoretical Astrophysics at the University of Oslo, which was founded in 1934. He died on 13 August 1957, at Blindern.\n\nHe was also an amateur street photographer, beginning in his student days. Near the age of 70 he put on an exhibition in Oslo of the photographs of celebrities that he had taken over the years. For instance it included one of Henrik Ibsen strolling down Karl Johans gate, the main road in Oslo. He was also a supervisory council member of the insurance company Forsikringsselskapet Norden.\n\nIn February 1900 he married consul's daughter Ada Clauson (1877–1973), with whom he eventually had five children. Their son Leif Størmer became a professor of historical geology at the University of Oslo. His daughter Henny married landowner Carl Otto Løvenskiold. Carl Størmer is also the grandfather of the mathematician Erling Størmer.\n\nStørmer's first mathematical publication, published when he was a beginning student at the age of 18, concerned trigonometric series generalizing the Taylor expansion of the arcsine function. He revisited this problem a few years later. Next, he systematically investigated Machin-like formula by which the number may be represented as a rational combination of the so-called \"Gregory numbers\" of the form . Machin's original formula,\n\nis of this type, and Størmer showed that there were three other ways of representing as a rational combination of two Gregory numbers. He then investigated combinations of three Gregory numbers, and found 102 representations of π of this form, but was unable to determine whether there might be additional solutions of this type. These representations led to fast algorithms for computing numerical approximations of. In particular, a four-term representation found by Størmer,\n\nwas used in a record-setting calculation of to 1,241,100,000,000 decimal digits in 2002 by Yasumasa Kanada. Størmer is also noted for the Størmer numbers, which arose from the decomposition of Gregory numbers in Størmer's work.\n\nStørmer's theorem, which he proved in 1897, shows that, for any finite set of prime numbers, there are only finitely many pairs of consecutive integers having only the numbers from as their prime factors. In addition, Størmer describes an algorithm for finding all such pairs. The superparticular ratios generated by these consecutive pairs are of particular importance in music theory. Størmer proves this theorem by reducing the problem to a finite set of Pell equations, and the theorem itself can also be interpreted as describing the possible factorizations of solutions to Pell's equation. Chapman quotes Louis Mordell as saying \"His result is very pretty, and there are many applications of it.\"\n\nAdditional subjects of Størmer's mathematical research included Lie groups, the gamma function, and Diophantine approximation of algebraic numbers and of the transcendental numbers arising from elliptic functions. From 1905 Størmer was an editor of the journal \"Acta Mathematica\", and he was also an editor of the posthumously-published mathematical works of Niels Henrik Abel and Sophus Lie.\n\nFrom 1903, when Størmer first observed Kristian Birkeland's experimental attempts to explain the aurora borealis, he was fascinated by aurorae and related phenomena. His first work on the subject attempted to model mathematically the paths taken by charged particles perturbed by the influence of a magnetized sphere, and Størmer eventually published over 48 papers on the motion of charged particles. By modeling the problem using differential equations and polar coordinates, Størmer was able to show that the radius of curvature of any particle's path is proportional to the square of its distance from the sphere's center. To solve the resulting differential equations numerically, he used Verlet integration, which is therefore also known as \"Störmer's method\". Ernst Brüche and Willard Harrison Bennett verified experimentally Størmer's predicted particle motions; Bennett called his experimental apparatus \"Störmertron\" in honor of Størmer. Størmer's calculations showed that small variations in the trajectories of particles approaching the earth would be magnified by the effects of the Earth's magnetic field, explaining the convoluted shapes of aurorae. Størmer also considered the possibility that particles might be trapped within the geomagnetic field, and worked out the orbits of these trapped particles. Størmer's work on this subject applies to what are today called the magnetospheric ring current and Van Allen radiation belts.\n\nAs well as modeling these phenomena mathematically, Størmer took many photographs of aurorae, from 20 different observatories across Norway. He measured their heights and latitudes by triangulation from multiple observatories, and showed that the aurora are typically as high as 100 kilometers above ground. He classified them by their shapes, and discovered in 1926 the \"solar-illuminated aurora\", a phenomenon that can occur at twilight when the upper parts of an aurora are lit by the sun; these aurorae can be as high as 1000 km above ground.\n\nStørmer's book, \"From the Depths of Space to the Heart of the Atom\", describing his work in this area, was translated into five different languages from the original Norwegian. A second book, \"The Polar Aurora\" (Oxford Press, 1955), contains both his experimental work on aurorae and his mathematical attempts to model them. In his review of this book, Canadian astronomer John F. Heard calls Størmer \"the acknowledged authority\" on aurorae. Heard writes, \"\"The Polar Aurora\" will undoubtedly remain for many years a standard reference book; it belongs on the desk of anyone whose work or interest is involved with aurorae.\"\n\nOther astrophysical phenomena investigated by Størmer include pulsations of the earth's magnetic field, echoing in radio transmissions, nacreous clouds and luminous night clouds, zodiacal light, meteor trails, the solar corona and solar vortices, and cosmic rays.\n\nStørmer was a Foreign Member of the Royal Society (ForMemRS) and a Corresponding Member of the French Academy of Sciences. He was also a member of the Norwegian Academy of Science and Letters from 1900. He was given honorary degrees by Oxford University (in 1947), the University of Copenhagen (1951), and the Sorbonne (1953), and in 1922 the French Academy awarded him their Janssen Medal. Three times Størmer was a plenary speaker in the International Congress of Mathematicians (1908 in Rome, 1924 in Toronto, and 1936 in Oslo); he was an invited speaker of the ICM in 1920 in Strasbourg and in 1932 in Zurich. In 1971, the crater Störmer on the far side of the Moon was named after him.\n\nIn 1902, Størmer was decorated with King Oscar II's Medal of Merit in gold. He was also decorated as a Knight, First Order of the Order of St. Olav in 1939. He was upgraded to Grand Cross of the Order of St. Olav in 1954.\n"}
{"id": "1906524", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906524", "title": "List of Mir spacewalks", "text": "List of Mir spacewalks\n\n\"Mir\" (, ; lit. \"Peace\" or \"World\") was a Soviet and later Russian space station, operational in low Earth orbit from 1986 to 2001.\nWith a mass greater than that of any previous space station, \"Mir\" was constructed from 1986 to 1996 with a modular design, the first to be assembled in this way. The station was the largest artificial satellite orbiting the Earth until its deorbit on 21 March 2001, a record now surpassed by the International Space Station (ISS). \"Mir\" served as a microgravity research laboratory in which crews conducted experiments in biology, human biology, physics, astronomy, meteorology and spacecraft systems in order to develop technologies required for the permanent occupation of space.\n\nFollowing the success of the Salyut programme, \"Mir\" represented the next stage in the Soviet Union's space station programme. The first module of the station, known as the core module or base block, was launched in 1986, and was followed by six further modules (\"Kvant\"-1 (1987), \"Kvant\"-2 (1989), \"Kristall\" (1990), \"Spektr\" (1995), the docking module (1995) and \"Priroda\" (1996)), all launched by Proton rockets (with the exception of the docking module). When complete, the station consisted of seven pressurised modules and several unpressurised components. Power was provided by several solar arrays mounted directly on the modules. The station was maintained at an orbit between and altitude and travelled at an average speed of 27,700 km/h (17,200 mph), completing 15.7 Earth orbits per day.\n\nSpacewalks (Extra-vehicular activities, or EVAs) in support of the operation of the station were major events in the assembly and maintenance of the orbital laboratory. EVAs were performed to install new components onto the station, to repair and replace various experiments, systems and equipment, and to install, monitor and retrieve scientific experiments. The first EVA carried out at \"Mir\" was held on 11 April 1987, when EO-2 crewmembers Yury Romanenko and Aleksandr Laveykin assisted in the docking of the \"Kvant\"-1 module. The longest EVA was performed on 17 July 1990, when EO-6 crewmembers Anatoly Solovyev and Aleksandr Balandin left the station to repair their spacecraft, Soyuz TM-9, then encountered difficulties shutting the airlock hatch upon their return. The total time for that spacewalk was seven hours and sixteen minutes, close to the absolute limit of their Orlan-DMA spacesuits.\n\nIn total, eighty EVAs were conducted around \"Mir\" from 1987 to 2000. Sixty-three EVAs were conducted from \"Kvant\"-2's airlock, fifteen from the core module's docking node (of which three were so-called 'intravehicular activities', or IVAs, within \"Spektr\") and two from the airlock of the .\n\n"}
{"id": "1906526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906526", "title": "KPIX-TV", "text": "KPIX-TV\n\nKPIX-TV, virtual channel 5 (UHF digital channel 29), is a CBS owned-and-operated television station licensed to San Francisco, California, United States and serving the San Francisco Bay Area. The station is owned by the CBS Television Stations subsidiary of ViacomCBS, as part of a duopoly with CW West Coast flagship KBCW (channel 44), also licensed to San Francisco.\n\nThe two stations share studios at Broadway and Battery Street, just north of San Francisco's Financial District; KPIX's transmitter is located atop Sutro Tower. In addition to KBCW, KPIX shares its building with formerly co-owned radio stations KCBS, KFRC-FM, KGMZ, KITS, KLLC and KRBQ, although they use a different address number for Battery Street (865 as opposed to 855).\n\nKPIX signed on the air on December 22, 1948, the first television station in Northern California as well as the 49th in the United States. It was originally owned by Associated Broadcasters, owners of KSFO (560 AM). Initially, channel 5's signal was transmitted from the top of the Mark Hopkins Hotel on Nob Hill. It later moved to a shared transmitter tower with KGO-TV (channel 7) at the Sutro Mansion (which was located midway between Mount Sutro and Twin Peaks), and then to the Sutro Tower in 1973. KPIX's first master control room was in the attic of the Mark Hopkins Hotel (just above the \"Top of the Mark\" bar).\n\nThe station immediately joined CBS due to a deal KSFO's owners had worked out with the television network one year earlier. KSFO was CBS radio's Bay Area affiliate from 1937 to 1941, when Associated Broadcasters backed out of a deal for CBS to buy the station. When KSFO was still affiliated with CBS, it was originally slated to move to 740 AM, the frequency of San Jose's KQW. 740 AM was the last 50,000-watt frequency available in the Bay Area, and KSFO was to raise its power to 50,000 watts after moving to 740. However, after KSFO parted ways with CBS radio, the network moved its Bay Area affiliation to KQW and was not about to give up the advantage of owning the Bay Area's last available 50,000-watt station. After lengthy Federal Communications Commission (FCC) hearings, KSFO won the 740 frequency, but later decided to stay at 560 and concentrate its efforts on building a television station. It traded the 740 frequency to CBS in return for getting the CBS television affiliation for the Bay Area. KQW remained at 740 and CBS changed its call sign to KCBS.\n\nThe station also carried programming from DuMont until that network folded in 1956. It even carried a few NBC programs until KRON-TV (channel 4) signed on in November 1949, and programs from the short-lived Paramount Television Network, such as \"Frosty Frolics\", \"Time For Beany\", \"Cowboy G-Men\" and \"Bandstand Revue\".\n\nWhen KPIX's first competitor, KGO-TV, signed on in May 1949, KPIX produced programs to welcome it into the Bay Area. KPIX cameras were used on the first episode of the CBS News program \"See It Now\" on November 18, 1951, which opened with the first live simultaneous coast-to-coast TV transmission from both the East Coast (the Brooklyn Bridge and New York Harbor) and the West Coast (KPIX-produced images of the Golden Gate Bridge and San Francisco Bay), under the narration of Edward R. Murrow. Under its first general manager, Phil Lasky, KPIX gained an early reputation for news coverage, being noted for originating national CBS coverage of the Japanese Peace Conference of 1951 (the event which \"officially\" brought an end to World War II, similar to the function that the Treaty of Versailles served for World War I), held in San Francisco (for which Lasky was commended by then-CBS News president Sig Mickelson), as well as local news coverage of the 1953 crash of an Australian airliner while on approach to San Francisco International Airport, and a powder explosion a few weeks afterward at an explosives plant in suburban Hercules. The First Bay Area sports telecast was on December 22, 1948 when the San Francisco Shamrocks vs Oakland Oaks was on KPIX TV. KPIX, owned by Associated Broadcasters (KSFO) was the first TV station in Northern California. There were only roughly 600 TV's in the Bay Area in 1948. In regards to sports programming, KPIX originated the annual college football East-West Shrine Game for DuMont, and was the flagship station of the San Francisco Seals of the Pacific Coast League until 1954.\n\nIn 1952, KPIX and KSFO moved into a new building at 2655 Van Ness Avenue; KPIX moved out of the facility in 1979, when it relocated to a converted 1920s era warehouse on the corner of Battery and Broadway streets (refurbished by the architecture firm Gensler), where KPIX remains to this day (KSFO moved to studios in the Fairmont Hotel, across the hall from the Tonga Room, in 1955. The studio on Van Ness Avenue (renamed to Bridge Studios after KPIX's departure) was the first building in San Francisco specifically built for television; the game show \"Starcade\" taped here after a pilot taped at KRON-TV's studios (it was demolished in 2006 to make way for a condominium complex).\n\nWestinghouse Electric Corporation bought KPIX in 1954 and ran it as part of the company's Group W broadcasting unit. During Westinghouse's ownership, KPIX was the company's only television station on the West Coast. Additionally, it was one of two VHF stations (along with Pittsburgh's KDKA-TV) that didn't have a historic three-letter callsign, the only one to have a \"K\" callsign west of the Mississippi River, and along with WJZ-TV in Baltimore (until 2008) was the only one without a sister radio station with matching callsigns.\n\nIn late 1995, Westinghouse merged with CBS, making KPIX a CBS-owned station and bringing it into common ownership with KCBS radio. Prior to this, KPIX had been CBS' longest-tenured affiliate (a distinction that now belongs to Washington, D.C.'s WUSA). KPIX was also one of two longtime CBS affiliates owned by Group W that became a CBS O&O, the other being KDKA-TV. \nIn 2000, the combined Westinghouse/CBS was bought by Viacom, and when Viacom split up its assets in December 2005, KPIX and the company's other broadcast properties became part of CBS Corporation. Since May 2003, KPIX-TV and WJZ-TV are the only former Group W TV stations that still utilize the classic Group W font.\n\nIn May 2006, KPIX moved its San Jose news bureau to the Fairmont Tower at 50 W. San Fernando Street—which served as the original site of Charles Herrold's experimental radio broadcasts that were the precursor of KCBS. Although CBS was not aware of the significance of the San Fernando Street address when the move was planned, it quickly recognized and embraced its significance when informed, giving long-overdue credit to one of the inventors of radio broadcasting during the bureau's opening celebration.\n\nOn December 4, 2019, CBS Corporation and Viacom remerged into ViacomCBS.\n\nKPIX's distinctive \"5\" logo dates back from the station's days under Westinghouse ownership, when the \"Group W font\" was standard on KPIX and its sister stations after about 1965. When Westinghouse merged with CBS, most of the former Group W stations eventually retired the font. KPIX, along with its Baltimore sister station WJZ-TV (an ABC affiliate during its pre-merger Group W history) would become the only two CBS-owned television stations to continue using this logo font.\n\nKPIX was the only CBS-owned station on the West Coast not to follow the trend of other CBS-owned stations branding themselves as \"CBS (channel number)\" for years after the merger, simply referencing itself as \"KPIX-TV Channel 5\". Between 1993 and 1996, it was branded simply as \"KPIX 5\", even dropping the \"Eyewitness News\" title for its newscasts and branding them as \"KPIX 5 News\" at the same time, before reverting. In 2003, KPIX fell in line with its sister stations and rebranded as \"CBS 5\", and later to \"CBS 5 Bay Area\". On February 3, 2013, KPIX dropped the \"CBS 5\" branding and reverted to being branded as \"KPIX 5\", also dropping the \"Eyewitness News\" newscast title again, this time for good.\n\nThe station's digital signal is multiplexed:\nKPIX-TV shut down its analog signal, over VHF channel 5, on June 12, 2009, as part of the federally mandated transition from analog to digital television. The station's digital signal remained on its pre-transition UHF channel 29, using PSIP to display KPIX-TV's virtual channel as 5 on digital television receivers.\n\nKPIX originated the concept for the entertainment and lifestyle program, \"Evening Magazine\". \"Evening Magazine\" debuted on the station in August 1976, and within a year, the concept expanded to the other Group W stations. By Fall 1978, the \"Evening Magazine\" format was syndicated to stations around the United States that were not owned by Group W as \"PM Magazine\". The entire \"Evening\"/\"PM Magazine\" format was cancelled by the late 1980s, though \"Evening Magazine\" was later resurrected on KPIX in 1998. In 2005, \"Evening Magazine\" was retitled \"Eye on the Bay\", to focus further on the San Francisco Bay Area. KBCW also aired day-behind reruns of the program in the early 2000s. In 2007, \"Eye on the Bay\" began broadcasting in high definition. \"Eye on the Bay\" ended its weekday broadcasts on September 7, 2012, and switched to a weekly program on Saturdays thereafter.\n\nFor most of the time before Westinghouse bought CBS, KPIX was the network's largest affiliate. Despite this, from the mid-1970s until 1994, it was standard practice for KPIX to preempt CBS' daytime programs such as \"The Price Is Right\" (for example, the first season of \"Tattletales\" was preempted for reruns of \"Perry Mason\"). Although CBS made in excess of 30 cuts to the violent content of \"Death Wish\", both KPIX and sister station KDKA-TV preempted the network's 1976 airing of the film, having denounced the remaining violent content of the film and, as well, the apparent endorsement by the film of vigilante violence. Despite the preemptions, CBS was mostly satisfied with KPIX as it was among its highest-rated affiliates. In September 1994, two months after CBS signed a long-term affiliation deal with the Westinghouse stations (just before the two companies merged), KPIX began airing the entire CBS schedule without preemptions except for local news emergencies, as per the agreement between Westinghouse and CBS. However, it continued to run CBS prime time programming one hour earlier than typical for the Pacific Time Zone (from 7 to 10 p.m., instead of 8 to 11 p.m.), a practice dating back to 1992. This ended in 1998, and since then KPIX has aired the entire CBS schedule in pattern. KOVR in Sacramento adopted a similar practice after becoming a CBS affiliate in 1995, and continues this scheduling practice to this day, long after CBS bought the station in 2004. Any preempted shows air on CW O&O sister KBCW.\n\nKPIX was also known for the locally produced morning talk show, \"People are Talking\", which began in 1978 with Ann Fraser and Ross MacGowan, and ran until 1991 (the \"People are Talking\" format was also syndicated to other Group W stations during this period). On KPIX, the show preempted \"The Price Is Right\" for a few years; the game show aired instead on independent stations in the Bay Area such as KOFY-TV (channel 20). At one point, a more celebrity-driven \"People Are Talking in the Afternoon\" aired with a small house band. Prior to the launch of the \"People are Talking\" franchise, Ann Fraser hosted \"The Morning Show\" (essentially a half-hour version of \"People Are Talking\"), which replaced \"The Kathryn Crosby Show\", another half-hour talk show hosted by Bing Crosby's wife, Kathryn. Prior to \"The Kathryn Crosby Show,\" KPIX aired \"The Bentley Affair,\" hosted by Helen Bentley in the late 1960s–early 1970s. During the 1987–88 season, KPIX ran a 90-minute block of court shows from 4:30 to 6 p.m.: \"Superior Court\", \"The People's Court\" and \"The Judge\".\n\nDuring the 1980s, KPIX was the flagship station for the Oakland Athletics baseball team (at times preempting or delaying CBS network shows for the live broadcasts), before the A's broadcasts moved to then-NBC affiliate KRON-TV the early 1990s; select A's and San Francisco Giants games were aired on KPIX from 1990 to 1993 as part of CBS' MLB broadcast contract. KPIX was also the television home of the Golden State Warriors basketball team during the 1990s. KPIX-TV was also the exclusive home of the Bay to Breakers, before it moved to KRON.\n\nFrom 1956 to 1993, KPIX carried most San Francisco 49ers games locally as part of CBS' broadcast rights to the NFL, which covered the entire pre-merger league until 1970, and the National Football Conference from 1970 to 1993. Two of the 49ers' Super Bowl victories aired locally on KPIX: Super Bowl XVI and Super Bowl XXIV. KPIX lost the 49ers to KTVU (channel 2) in 1994 (a year after fan favorite Joe Montana was traded to the Kansas City Chiefs), when the NFC package moved to Fox. However, in 1998, the American Football Conference package moved to CBS from NBC, and KPIX has aired most Raiders games (both in Oakland and Las Vegas) since. However, KPIX will still air 49ers afternoon games if the team plays against an AFC team at Levi's Stadium. KPIX has also broadcast 49ers games in the immediate Bay Area market if the team plays on ESPN's \"Monday Night Football\" or more recently on \"Thursday Night Football\", produced by NFL Network, in partnership with CBS Sports. In 2014, with the institution of the NFL's new 'cross-flex' rules, any games that involve the 49ers playing an NFC opponent can be moved from KTVU, and aired on KPIX. The station also provided local coverage of Super Bowl 50, which was played at Levi's Stadium.\n\nDuring the 1950s, KPIX produced a local children's program, \"Captain Fortune\", on weekday afternoons and Saturday mornings. In addition to a number of live segments with an in-studio children's audience, the program featured the animated television episodes of \"Crusader Rabbit\". Brother Buzz, a feature from the Latham Foundation (an Oakland-based organization dedicated to the concept of humane education), with marionettes created and operated by Ralph Chesse and company, were a weekly segment starting in 1952 (and later became its own separate, stand-alone program which ran for several more years on KPIX and KGO). The \"captain\" sometimes drew pictures to illustrate his stories. He had another segment called \"wiggly lines,\" where he would ask a child to draw a wiggly line and ask him or her what they wanted Captain Fortune to draw and he would convert the line into the drawing. Captain Fortune was actually a talented artist named Peter Abenheim. Abenheim authored a book, published in 1959 by Nourse Publishing of San Carlos, California, \"Captain Impossible at Sea\". Abenheim wrote the screenplay for a 1962 science fiction film, \"This Is Not a Test\" (also released as \"Atomic War Bride\"). He was born in England on January 26, 1912. He came to San Francisco in 1932 and attended the California School of Fine Arts. He worked as an educational filmmaker. He died in San Francisco on May 2, 1988.\n\nFrom 1956 to 1959, Davenport, Iowa native Dick Stewart (born 1927) hosted a weekday variety program at KPIX. Due to the popularity of the film \"Gidget\" in 1959, the station decided to run a \"Miss Gidget\" contest on Dick Stewart's television program. The contest was won by Barbara Bouchet, who would become one of the \"Regulars\" on his later program \"Dance Party\". She would later go on to be a famous star in her own right.\n\nFrom 1959 to 1963, Stewart hosted \"Dance Party\" for KPIX, a program that invited local teenagers to come and dance to recorded music in the KPIX studios. Besides playing current recordings, Stewart sometimes welcomed popular recording stars to the program. Following the custom of \"American Bandstand\", the singers would lip-sync to their recordings. Stewart also hosted a number of \"High School Salute\" programs on Saturdays that spotlighted area high schools with interviews with students and faculty, as well as filmed segments from each school.\n\nKPIX-TV presently broadcasts 32½ hours of locally produced newscasts each week (with 5½ hours each weekday, and 2½ hours each on Saturdays and Sundays). For most of the last 30 years, KPIX has been a solid runner-up to KGO-TV in the Bay Area news ratings. KPIX utilizes a doppler weather radar system called \"Hi-Def Doppler\" during weather segments, which is located on Mount Vaca.\n\nAs the Bay Area's first television station, KPIX was a pioneer in local television news coverage in the region. Like most television stations, it presented a 15-minute evening news program until 1963, when the networks began expanding their evening newscasts to 30 minutes. One of KPIX's innovating program directors, Ray Hubbard, created \"The Noon News\". The anchors were John Weston, \"Channel 5's Guy on the Go\", and Wanda Ramey (one of the first female news anchors on U.S. television), \"Channel 5's Gal on the Go\". From 1965 to 1994 and again from 1995 to 2013, KPIX used the \"Eyewitness News\" format originally adopted by Philadelphia sister station KYW-TV. KGO-TV also uses a similar format for its newscasts, but KPIX had the \"Eyewitness News\" name first; KGO adopted its version of the format from its New York City sister station WABC-TV. In 1966, KPIX hired the first African-American news reporters in the San Francisco television market: Ben Williams, who had been the first Black reporter for the \"San Francisco Examiner\" a few years earlier, and Belva Davis, the first female African-American reporter on the West Coast.\n\nIn 1993, the station moved its 11 p.m. newscast to 10:00 p.m. and expanded the program to one hour, as part of KPIX's \"Early Prime\" programming experiment which moved CBS's primetime lineup one hour early. Then-NBC affiliate KRON-TV also experimented with a 7-10 p.m. primetime block and ran a newscast at 10 p.m. during this time, but its newscast ran for only a half-hour before reverting to the standard 8-11 p.m. primetime scheduling after only a year; KPIX did not revert to the standard Pacific Time Zone primetime scheduling until 1998, after failing to make a dent in the ratings for long-dominant KTVU's 10 p.m. newscast.\n\nKPIX was also home to \"30 Minutes Bay Area\", a half-hour news magazine produced in consultation with \"60 Minutes\" creator Don Hewitt after he retired from the national show. The \"30 Minutes\" concept was originally planned to air on many CBS-owned stations, but KPIX was the only station to implement the concept. \"30 Minutes Bay Area\" was discontinued in early 2007. KPIX also was one of the first U.S. television stations to provide full-time environment reporting in its newscasts—\"The Greenbeat\" ran from 2007 to 2010, and featured reports by Jeffrey Schaub on environmental sustainability, green technology and earth awareness issues.\n\nIn 2007, Wendy Tokuda (who co-anchored channel 5's evening newscasts from 1978 to 1992), returned to KPIX and brought it \"Students Rising Above\" feature reports that she originated during her nine-year tenure with KRON-TV to the station; Tokuda founded the \"Students Rising Above\" student scholarship program in 1998. On January 28, 2008, KPIX became the third Bay Area television station to begin broadcasting its local newscasts in high definition (behind KGO-TV and KTVU); most field reports were initially still broadcast in standard definition (albeit pillarboxed), KPIX started using HD cameras for its field reports in September 2010, however, not all of the station's news footage is shot in HD.\n\nIn September 2010, KPIX introduced new graphics for its newscasts, a standardized package that was also rolled out to CBS's other news-producing O&O stations; this included the addition of \"The Enforcer\" music package by Gari Media Group, the basic theme of which has been used on many CBS-owned stations since the mid-1970s, when it was introduced by WBBM-TV. In January 2011, KPIX expanded its weekday morning newscast by a half-hour to 4:30 a.m. On January 8, 2012, KPIX began producing a Sunday morning newscast for sister station KBCW.\n\nOn January 14, 2019, KPIX moved the half-hour \"CBS Evening News\" from 5:30 p.m. to 6:30 p.m. The 5:00 p.m. local newscast was expanded to a full hour; the 6:00 p.m. local newscast was shortened to a half hour. By early February 2019, a new half-hour local newscast was airing at 7:00 p.m.\n\nKPIX launched a streaming news service, CBSN Bay Area (a localized version of the national CBSN service) on November 18, 2019, as part of a rollout of similar services across the CBS-owned stations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1906532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906532", "title": "Ed. Kruspe", "text": "Ed. Kruspe\n\nEd. Kruspe was a brass instrument manufacturer located near Eisenach, Germany. It was founded in 1834 by Carl Kruspe and his two sons Eduard and Friedrich (Fritz) in Erfurt, Germany, and few years after German reunification the factory moved from Erfurt to Wutha-Farnroda near Eisenach . The factory in Wutha-Farnroda (Thuringia) closed in 2011. But the manufacture of Kruspe brass wind instruments is continued since 2012 in Prienbach (Bavaria).\n\nEd. Kruspe is credited with building the first prototypes of the double horn in 1897.\n\nThe double horn was conceived by Edmund Gumpert, third horn in Meiningen, and refined and patented around 1900 by Fritz Kruspe.\n\n"}
{"id": "1906533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906533", "title": "Rakuten Seimei Park Miyagi", "text": "Rakuten Seimei Park Miyagi\n\nThe (official name: Miyagi Baseball Stadium) is a stadium in Sendai, Japan. It is primarily used for baseball as the home field of the Tohoku Rakuten Golden Eagles. It opened in 1950. In order to modernize the facility for the Golden Eagles' first season (2005), seating was reduced from approximately 28,600 to about 20,000, as more-spacious seating was installed. For the 2006 season, about 3,000 seats (including private boxes along the first-base side) were added, increasing capacity to about 23,000.\n\nFrom January 1, 2008 through December 31, 2010, the stadium's official name was the , and abbreviated as . The stadium was also formerly known as between 2005 and 2007.\n\nUnlike most stadiums, the home team uses the dugout along the third base line. Each team's bullpen is located beneath the stands behind the dugout areas, out of view of the spectators in the stadium; however, curtained windows outside allow passerby to watch the pitchers warming up.\n\nConcession stands are located outside the stadium, and on the second and third levels in the area behind home plate.\n\nThe stadium has hosted two NPB All-Star games in 2007 and 2011.\n\nMiyagi Baseball Stadium is located near Miyaginohara Station and Tsutsujigaoka Station on the Senseki Line. Miyaginohara Station is nicknamed \"Baseball Station\" due to its proximity to the stadium.\n"}
{"id": "1906534", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906534", "title": "Paravar", "text": "Paravar\n\nParavar (also known as Bharathar or Bharathakula) is a Tamil caste in Tamil Nadu, India. They are thought of being in ancient times coastal inhabitants, seafarers, maritime traders, who as well were according to at least one modern writer, described as \"ferocious soldiers\", claiming to be Kshatriyas. There are many theories as to their origins but they have since ancient times been recorded in the area of Tamil Nadu and Sri Lanka\n\nIn modern India, Paravars are concentrated along the coastal belt extending around the Gulf of Mannar, from Kilakarai through to Kanyakumari (Cape Comorin) and then on almost as far as Kannur. There are also Paravar settlements on the outskirts of inland villages, and there has been a significant number among the population of Tuticorin, a major town, since the 1580s. In Sri Lanka, Bharathakula people are a separate ethnic group, since 2001.\n\nThe name Paravar literally means \"dwellers on seacoast\" and is derived from the Tamil word \"paravai\" meaning \"sea\" or \"expanse\". The Paravars may have been the \"Paradavar\" mentioned in Sangam literature, who are mentioned in Pattinappaalai text. They were also known as \"Minavar\" and were maritime inhabitants of the littoral Sangam landscape known as \"neithal,\" who were among other involved in fishing. The name Parathavar may be derived from the same root word \"paravai\". \n\nThe Paravars prefer to call themselves \"Parathar\" also written \"Bharathar\", which may be a corrupted form of the Tamil word \"padavar\" meaning \"boat men\". Another etymological theory propose the community had adopted the name of the Bharatas clan from the Hindu epic Mahabharata, who were the ancestor of the heroes in the epic, following their origin myth from Ayodhya. \n\nFrom the earliest recorded times the Paravars were fishers, seamen and maritime traders specialising in seasonal harvesting of pearl oysters and chank, both of which were significant exports from southern India by the first century AD. (The pearl diving season usually lasted 20 – 30 days, around March). The community was also involved in sea salt production, which was a relatively easy task on the Indian coast as the hot temperatures evaporated the water without the need for firewood. Diving for pearls and chank, as well as fishing, were thought of as being \"low and ritually polluting occupations.\"\n\nThe Pandyan emperors allowed the Paravars to manage and operate the pearl fisheries because of their already ancient skills in that activity, which required specialist seamanship abilities, knowledge of how to tend the oysterbeds and also knowledge of their location. The emperors exempted the Paravars from taxation and allowed them to govern themselves in return for being paid tribute from the produce extracted. Cave engravings from the third century BC, found in 2003, reinforce this view as they suggest that the Paravars were the chieftains (Velirs) of the coastal region during this period, ruling as subordinates of the Pandyas. Previously, in the 1920s, Iyengar had noted that the caste name was used in ancient scripts to mean both boatmen and chiefs of the Madurai country. A report written in 1669 made it clear that in so far as they were kings, they were only kings of their own people and not of any wider constituency; furthermore, that these \"kings\" were referred to as such only by the Paravars. However, in the Sangam work \"Mathuraikkanci\", the author Mankudi Maruthanar, refers to his patron, the Pandya sovereign Talaiyanganam Nedunjeliyan, as the Lord of Korkai and the Warlord of the southern Parathavar (\"Then Parathavar por yere\").\n\nThe 1901 Madras Census noted that the Tamil-speaking Paravars \"claim\" to be kshatriyas (warriors) serving under the Pandyan kings, the word used suggesting some official doubt regarding the issue.\n\nLittle is known about the Paravas during the middle ages. Indeed, Donkin has argued that with one exception, \"there are no native literary works with a developed sense of chronology, or indeed much sense of place, before the thirteenth century\", and that any historical observations have to be made using Arab, European and Chinese accounts. Southern India came under the control of the Cholas in the ninth century but reverted to Pandyan control around the mid-1200s following a series of battles. They maintained control, despite several challenges, until the 16th century.\n\nRegardless of any doubt regarding their claims to be warriors under the liege of Pandyan emperors, the Paravars certainly did have armies at a later time, these being created to protect the fisheries and their people from attack.\n\nThe Arab Muslim invasion began in 712 AD at the Sindh Valley and by around 1300 AD they had taken over the entire northern India. However, even prior to the invasion there were Arabs in southern areas such as Calicut, Quilon and Malabar, chiefly traders interested in the spices, pearls, precious stones and cottons which were available there. Another advantage of the location was that it was on a major sea trade route running through south-east Asia and on to China. Some of these Arabs were also pearl divers, having gained their experience in the waters of the Persian Gulf. Some Paravars adopted Islam, whose women also were married off to Muslim traders. These claimed to be descendants of the biblical figure Noah.\n\nThe descendants of these Muslim people became known as the Lebbais and their main settlement was the town of Kayal, a presence which was noted by Vasco da Gama and Duarte Barbosa by the early sixteenth century. There is some ambiguity regarding this town: there was a harbour on the Tamraparani River in Pandyan times which was known as Korkai and when the river at this point became too silted to use (it is situated approximately 8 km inland nowadays), it was replaced by a port called Kayal, thought to be situated variously either at the mouth of the river or at the village of Palayakayal which was 4 km downstream of Korkai but is itself nowadays about 3 km inland. Marco Polo described Kayal as a bustling port and the centre of the pearl trade in 1292 but by the mid-16th century this too had probably ceased to operate and was replaced by another port, Punnaikayal (\"new Kayal\") under the influence of the Portuguese colonists. Punnaikayal was again at the mouth of the river, which as part of an estuary was under constant change, around 4 km from Palayakayal. It is difficult to determine with any consistency which of these locations is being referred to at various times by various authors but what does appear to be a common factor is that this was until modern times a major port for the pearl trade. \"Kayal\" is the Tamil word for a backwater.\n\nThe 1901 Madras Census noted three groups who called themselves Paravars. It speculated that their common root were the mostly Christian Tamil-speaking Paravars, The other groups were the Canarese-speaking Paravars, who were umbrella makers and devil-dancers and the Malayalam-speaking Paravars, who were lime burners, gymnasts, midwives and shell collectors. It has been further speculated that the splitting of the latter two groups from the first may have been as a consequence of a desire to move away from the ancient tribal area when faced with the arrival of Muslims.\n\nThe Paravar belief of being the Paravaims of the biblical scriptures and the lost tribes of Israel added to the differences with the Arabs, which is acknowledged by Fr.Henrique Henriques by his claim of kinship.\n\nThere are differences of opinion regarding events up to the early 1500s. Donkin and Ray believe that the Muslims gained influence over the Paravars to the point that the latter became at best hired labour and at worst enslaved, and Neill has claimed that there was a belief among Paravars that the Muslims sought completely to exterminate them following various squabbles. However, Mannar and Chandrasekaran have said that up to the 16th century the Paravars had held almost a monopoly of the rights to exploit the pearl fisheries, having negotiated with successive kings to achieve this.\n\nBy this time, Maynard has claimed, the south Indian coastal areas around Kanyakumari were \"the greatest pearl fishery in the world\", and that the Hindu people who fished for oysters there \" ... were known as the Paravas, a caste sufficiently low, although not of the very lowest.\" He says that the Hindus were essentially peaceful in nature and temperamentally unsuited to counter physical threat, although Frykenberg has described them as a \"... proud and venturesome seafaring folk engaged in fishing, pearl diving, trading, and piracy.\" Hastings has pointed out that the piracy (and some smuggling) was only an occasional activity and that their more normal occupations demanded courage, strength and stamina, which made them \"hardened adventurers\".\n\nFrom 1527 the Paravars were being threatened by Arab fleets offshore, headed by the Muslim supporting Zamorin of Calicut, and also by an onshore campaign of the Rajah of Madura to wrest control of Tirunelveli and the Fishery Coast from the hands of the Rajah of Travancore. This continuing situation, and the desire to be relieved of the rivalry from Lebbai divers, caused the Paravars to seek the protection of Portuguese explorers who had moved into the area. A delegation led by Vikirama Aditha Pandya visited Goa to seek talks to this end in 1532. The protection was granted on the condition that the leaders were immediately baptised as Catholics and that they would encourage their people also to convert to Catholicism; the Portuguese would also gain a strategic foothold and control of the pearl fisheries. The deal was agreed and some months later 20,000 Paravars were baptised en masse, and became subjects of Portugal, during the visit of Pedro Gonsalves, Vicar of Cochin. By the end of 1537 the entire community had declared itself to be Catholics, according to Hastings, and the Portuguese proceeded to destroy the Arab fleet when they met fortuitously at Vedalai on 27 June 1538. From that point the Paravar people as a whole enjoyed renewed prosperity. Their declaration of acceptance of the Catholic faith did not prevent them from continuing to worship in the manner which they had done previously because there were no translators to spread the Catholic message and also because the conversion was seen by the Paravar people as being merely a convenient arrangement to obtain protection, not a statement of belief. Bayly describes the situation as being \"... really a declaration of tactical alliance rather than religious conversions as the term is usually understood.\"\n\nFrancis Xavier, a Jesuit priest, had been working in Goa prior to his journey to Kanyakumari, where he arrived in October 1542. He took with him some interpreters with the intention of spreading the Gospel and bringing about further religious conversions among what Frykenberg has called \"the lowest, most polluting segments of Tamil society\". Maynard claims that a further 10,000 Paravars were baptised during the first month of his mission, and 30,000 in total by its end; and that \"His conversion of the Paravas, as is pointed out by Père Lhande, is the only instance of an entire caste being brought into the Church.\" More modest figures have been proposed, such as 15,000 people including re-baptisms. Xavier also brought about the conversion of members of other castes living in the area, for example Mukkuvars and Paraiyars. His methods of conversion were sometimes forceful; for example, it is recorded that he burned down a hut which had been used to house non-Christian religious symbols.\n\nXavier appointed catechists in the Paravar villages up and down the of coastline to spread and reinforce his teachings, the method for much of which was to recite repetitively (and in poorly translated Tamil) rhythmic phrases of the Creed, Pater Noster and other standard Catholic teachings regardless of whether the content was actually understood. These appointments necessitated that he obtained funds with which to pay them, the primary source being money granted to him by the Queen of Portugal.\n\nViolence had not been completely removed from Paravar society, despite the Portuguese intervention. There were a series of bloody skirmishes involving the Badage tribe, raiding from the neighbouring area of Madura in the ongoing struggle between the rajahs. Some of the Portuguese protectors themselves were involved in duplicitous dealings with such tribes, or simply took advantage of the mayhem to make personal gains. Xavier intervened on several occasions in an attempt to right these wrongs and in March 1544 wrote a letter stating that the behaviour of the Portuguese was in fact the biggest hurdle he faced in promoting the Catholic message. In 1545 he wrote that \"I have never ceased wondering at the number of new inflexions they have added to the conjugation of the verb \"to rob\".\" He left India some time in the late 1540s or early 1550s but the precise year is disputed. There is at least one source who believes that he briefly visited again in 1548, when he was paraded through Tuticorin by the Paravars. It has been suggested that his status among the Paravars was one of \"cult worship\". There is a shrine to him, in a cave, which is still venerated today as the place they believe to have been his principal residence during his time among them.\n\nVikirama Aditha Pandya was rewarded by the Portuguese for his actions of 1532, when as part of the arrangement for protection he had offered to manage the pearl diving on behalf of the Portuguese. He became known as Senhor dos Senhores \"(\"first among notables\")\" Dom João da Cruz (but see Note 1) and was recognised as headman and official intermediary by the Portuguese from 1543 until 1553. (1543 was the year that the Portuguese first settled in Tuticorin, and the point from which that port began to expand until it eventually became the hub of the pearl fishery). His title of \"jati thalavan\" (head of the caste) was passed down through 21 other members of his family. Caste elders in the various villages were also among the early beneficiaries of Portuguese recognition, perhaps because they were the first to be converted. The consequence was that a formal system of hierarchical control, based on religious authority and economic standing and extending from the \"jati thalavan\" through to the elders and then to the villagers, became established in the eyes of Paravars and non-Paravars alike. It remained in existence until the 1920s, with the elders extracting payments from villagers which were then passed on to the \"jati thalavan\", and the latter in return managing affairs (including the fishery operations) and adjudicating in both internal and external disputes involving the community. Kaufmann has commented that these \"highly organised caste institutions\" including hereditary headmen and councils of elders holding sway, was a rare thing in the agrarian economy of southern India and both lasted longer and was more elaborate than most equivalent Hindu systems of the area. Another writer has said that \" ... by the beginning of the eighteenth century the Tamil Paravas had emerged as one of south India's most highly organised specialist caste groups\", and adds that the hierarchical system had its origins in times prior to the Portuguese intervention.\n\nTheir conversion may have enabled them to participate more significantly in religious ceremonies than was the case when they were Hindus, this being because their \"unclean\" occupations (that is, the taking of life) would have prevented any central contribution in Hindu religious ritual. This was certainly the outcome following Pope Clement XIV's dissolution of the Society of Jesus in 1773, which resulted in a dearth of Catholic misisonaries and priests in the area, enabling the \"jati thalavan\" and his fellow caste notables to assume the role of solemniser for rituals such as marriage.\n\nParavar Christianity, with its own identity based on a mixture of Christian-Catholic religious belief and Hindu caste culture, remains a defining part of the Paravar life today, the early work of missionaries and in the 1540s having been reinforced by others who succeeded them and by the \"jati thalavan\", the latter also being known as the \"little king\". Kaufmann explains this Christianity as being \"in effect a 'caste lifestyle' for the Paravas\", whilst Zupanov gives an example of how the missionaries modified Catholic teaching to suit the Paravars by citing the example of Henrique Henriques, who told them that \"in the beginning there were no Muslims, only Jews and Tamils\".\n\nA report written in 1622 stated that the fisheries had been moribund for many years due to the poverty of the Paravars; it is uncertain as to what period this refers or the cause of the poverty. Xavier had recorded that the oyster beds seemed to have an uneven cyclical pattern, with a few good years of production alternating with a rather longer period of poor production. Similarly, around 1490 Ahmad ibn Mājid wrote that the fisheries \"flourish in some years, but appear dead in others.\" One contemporary explanation for these changes was that the beds became covered by the shifting sea sands. A study of the period 1666–1916 showed that while the good harvests did tend to alternate between the Indian and the Sri Lankan sides of the Gulf, the latter side was more than twice as productive.\n\nControl of the fisheries passed from the Portuguese to the Dutch from 1658, along with sovereignty over the Paravars. The new rulers, who were Protestant, tried unsuccessfully to convert the Paravars to their own faith. One example of this attempt was the banning of the feast of Our Lady of Snows as a consequence of the Dutch taking over all the Catholic churches, many of which were turned into warehouses. This event had originated when a wood statuette of the Virgin Mary was moved by the Portuguese to the church of Our Lady of Mercy at Tuticorin in 1582, its installation being celebrated with a nine-day feast which was subsequently repeated annually and much enjoyed by the Paravars. The feast halted with the Dutch takeover but was reinstated from 1709, and three years later permission was granted for the building of a new church. It was the right of the \"jati thalavan\" always to make the first tug of the rope which was attached to a chariot containing the statuette and which marked the start of the festival. The veneration of the statuette has been called a \"cult\" and continues into modern times, although few outside the caste have such regard for it.\n\nDuring the period of Catholic repression the Dutch East India Company also expelled all Catholic priests and outlawed Catholic baptisms and other rituals. Indeed, there are no surviving records to suggest that there was any evangelism at all, although they did build Tuticorin's first Protestant church in 1750.\n\nDuring their period of control the Dutch also established a cloth factory in Tuticorin and this was a much appreciated venture — at some point the Paravars had also become traders in cloth.\n\nThe British took over control in 1796, after a period of gradual usurpation of Dutch authority along the coast and elsewhere by the East India Company. They had seized Tuticorin in 1785. Both sides had attempted to influence the Paravars, seeking to have their support to exploit the riches of the fishery waters. The new government continued to recognise the Paravar's hierarchical social structure, as the Dutch and Portuguese had done before them. However, until 1813 the Company did not officially allow Christian missionaries to operate in the areas under its control, bowing only then due to pressure from religious organisations in Britain. The Company was suspicious of any potential political undertones spread by the missionaries and was eager to keep trade running smoothly by operating a policy of non-interventionist conservatism in matters religious and cultural.\n\nBayly has examined why it was that some among the low-ranking Paravars were able to rise to work in occupations that were both more prestigious and more financially rewarding than had been the case before the conversion to Christianity, She points out that the Paravars held much the same rank as the Mukkavars, who were also a maritime caste of the area and were converted but did not demonstrate the same subsequent socio-economic mobility. (It has, however, been argued that the Mukkavars were \"a sub-class of the Parava[r] community\" and formed the largest group of those converted to Christianity during Xavier's time). Robinson has said \n\nWhen the Jesuit missionaries returned in the 1830s, following the revival of their Society, they were shocked at the lapse in formal religious observance and in general Christian morality, as well as the opulent lifestyle being led by the Paravar elite which contrasted with the dilapidated state of the churches. Around that time the elite, along with some other groups such as Nadar traders, were making significant amounts of money from a surge in export demand for processed cotton, using their existing wealth from the pearl fisheries as a means to expand their interests into this booming sector. By 1845 Tuticorin was the location of the main cotton export activities in southern India and by the end of the century it was the fifth largest port in the entire of India.\n\nThe Jesuits decided in 1841 to attempt to re-assert their authority over the elite by supporting the aspirations of a rising group of lesser Paravars who had also managed to gain from the boom and had hopes of validating their success with an appropriate rank in the hierarchy. These people were traders, often spending long periods of time away from home in such places as Goa and Sri Lanka. Even lower down the ranks, the rise in ship and cargo movements, the continued development of Tuticorin harbour and town, and similar consequences of the boom (including the requirement for food by those who had moved away from working directly in fishing or on the land) was providing increasingly profitable work. The Paravar elite continued their traditional role, organising this labour as they had done for the pearl fisheries. They also absorbed into their ranks those members of the caste who had profited from independent trading, this being achieved by requiring the newcomers to pay a fee and swear allegiance to the \"jati thalivan\". However, there were people who had been cast aside from the elite as a consequence of falling out with the \"jati\", and others who wanted recognition more quickly than the system allowed. These disaffected people were the target of the Jesuit actions, which consisted primarily of providing them with status symbols such as the offer of additional \"Te Deums\" and bells at marriage ceremonies. The end result of this attempt to foment a new hierarchy, however, was a riot and a successful move by the \"jati\" to replace the Jesuits with Goan Padroados as ministers to his people and officiators at the church of Our Lady of Snows. The Jesuits continued trying to split the caste for a further thirty years but rarely had more than temporary successes: the ranks of the disaffected were swollen by new arrivals but also diminished by those who left as a consequence of having obtained satisfaction from the elite.\n\nThe Jesuits had gone so far as to establish an alternative cathedral, the Sacred Heart, in the hope of drawing worshippers from Our Lady of Snows. That, too, failed in its purpose. There were also several instances where the disputes — often relating to rights in regard to religious buildings and their precincts — were taken through the court system, and also more occasions when riots between the factions occurred.\n\nThe death of the \"jati thalavan\" in 1889 without a male heir gave rise to a power vacuum and so presented a new opportunity for the Jesuits. Combined with this was another boom in maritime trading, this time involving the plantations of Ceylon, which served to swell the ranks of those aspiring for recognition as members of the elite. The Jesuits employed various measures intended to drive a wedge between the two groups and to limit the subservience displayed towards the \"jati\" and other senior caste members which, the Jesuits believed, infringed on the true worship of God because offerings of money and goods were made to those people as part of Paravan church rituals. They went so far as to attempt to install an alternative \"jati\" and the battle for control continued for several years.\n\nThe Jesuits were not helped in their aim by the British government, who in 1891 renegotiated the arrangements for sharing the fishery catches with the new, non-Jesuit appointed \"jati thalavan\". This deal, in which it was agreed that the \"jati\" should receive the output of one boat for that of every thirty which went to the government, once again confirmed the support of the ruling power for the caste hierarchy. The new \"jati\" was himself controversial among the Paravars: his appointment to the role, being the son of the previous headman's daughter, was thought by some to be invalid because the succession had passed through the female line.\n\nIn the late nineteenth century the Paravar elite tried to reconcile with the Muslim seafarers in their area, seeking to claim kinship. This went as far as the then \"jati thalivan\" declaring that the elite among these Marakkar Muslims, from towns such as Kilakarai, were in fact related to him by blood as they shared common antecedents. There was a tactical purpose to these decisions as by these actions he wanted to assert that he had authority over them. Furthermore, it was in the economic interests of the Paravars to foster these relationships because under British rule it was often the Marakkar who were granted the licences to operate the fisheries. Simultaneously, the Paravars were attempting to dissociate themselves from other Christian castes, whom they thought to be of a lower standing than themselves, such as the Nadars. Although they regarded the Nadar Christians as their equal in the past. The Nadars had been enthusiastic in their conversion to Christianity but did so much later than the Paravars, with surges of conversion — both to Catholicism and Protestantism — taking place in 1802–1803, the 1840s and the late 1870s/early 1880s. Dyron Daughrity has said that the conversions were \"largely because of the increase in social status that could be effected\" but adds that\n\nHowever, the combination of Jesuit pressure and then also that of the Goan Padroados, who came to agree that the ritual role of the \"jati\" was detrimental to belief, caused the gradual erosion of the \"jati's\" powers of patronage and organisation. This situation was assisted by the growing number of people aspiring to be members of the elite and those who disputed the validity of the succession as a consequence of the female lineage. The ceremonial role of the \"jati\" in religious observance and ceremony was gradually reduced, including the removal of status symbols such as the special seat that he occupied for Mass, and with these actions went much of his influence over the caste. By 1900 there were strikes taking place among the pearl and chank divers, often for frivolous reasons; the \"jati\" was unable to impose the discipline upon them which once had been a primary role.\n\nAs the caste hierarchy disintegrated, becoming a range of groups each seeking to assert their position, the role of the \"jati thalavan\" became more and more impossible and was eventually abandoned, the last occupant of the post having been installed in 1926. The introduction of new technologies in the post-World War II era significantly affected the entire notion of an elite, as developments such as nylon fishing nets, refrigeration and motorisation made fishing more lucrative as an occupation in its own right and removed the economic differences between those who laboured and those who either traded or lived off the organisation of labour. There is still a ritual element today surrounding certain events at Our Lady of Snows but the caste system which existed for centuries has gone.\n\nIn 1947, the fisheries became a monopoly of the new independent Indian government.\n\n, Paravars were classified as a Most backward caste in most of Tamil Nadu and as a Scheduled caste in Kanniyakumari District and Shenkottai taluk of Tirunelveli District by the Government of Tamil Nadu.\n\nIn 2009 the government of Tamil Nadu issued an order designating Christian Paravars within its jurisdiction as being of the Most Backward Classes (MBC), a designation regarding their socio-economic status which entitles them to various assistance measures, primarily in the form of positive discrimination, if they should require it. Prior to that decision, some Paravars in the jurisdiction had been in the Scheduled caste group, although others were already MBC. These designations are flexible and subject to change at various times, according to determined need.\n\nHistorically, the Paravars were involved in sea-related activities such as pearl diving, fishing, navigation, boatbuilding and the making of salt.\n\nIt is known that during the visit of Francis Xavier the Paravars were using two different types of boat for net fishing, which he called the \"vallam\" and the \"toni\". The latter was also used for trips to other coastal settlements and for trading journeys as far away as the Maldives. They were both large, open vessels with masts as well as oars; the sails were made with cotton, stiffened by boiling with roots and cow dung, and the fishing nets were made from coconut fibre. However, Iyengar believes that the \"toni\" was a hide-covered wicker basket similar to a coracle.\n\nThere is uncertainty regarding whether or not the present boats called \"vallam\" are similar to the ones described 500 years ago. Hornell's report of 1920 described the single-masted \"vallam\" in use around that time at being about long and with a cargo capacity of around 2 tons. In 1914 he had described a larger three-masted boat, called the \"dhoni\", which was used for pearl fishing and ferrying between anchored ships and Tuticorin harbour, as well as coastal journeys. The \"dhoni\" may owe its origin to Arab designs but could equally be indigenous.\n\nThe Paravars also used boats similar to catamarans and, indeed, that word comes from the Tamil \"katturmaran\" (tied tree). It would seem that the design was developed independently of those used in Polynesia. An 1895 traveller describes them as a hollowed-out tree trunk up to long which is connected to a smaller trunk acting as an outrigger using lashes and two arched lengths of bamboo. The voyager and explorer William Dampier had described seeing them in 1699.\n\nThe Paravars were probably a primarily endogamous society until the arrival of the Portuguese, marrying only within their own caste and so keeping the tribal ties strong. Subsequently they became exogamous and from this came the use of names based on Portuguese origin. Family names such as Fernando, Costa, da Cruz and Roche are a direct consequence of these marriages, and familiar names, such as Susai (a Tamil translation of \"Joseph\"), reflect both the marriages and the general Portuguese influence. Robinson offers a different thesis, claiming that they remained endogamous even after conversion, that these family ties strengthened their ability to ascend socially and that the use of Christian family names was in fact a privilege granted to them by the Portuguese and deemed to be a sign of their superiority over other castes such as the Mukkavars.\n\nThere are four family names of non-Christian origin still in common use, these being Kalingarayan, Villavarayan, Poobalarayan and Rayan. These names are thought possibly to have their origin in \"arayan\", which was used by Tamil fishing groups as a caste title. \"Arayan\" is claimed by some modern descendants of the Paravars to be itself derived from \"rayya\" (rajah, king).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1906537", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906537", "title": "Nihad Awad", "text": "Nihad Awad\n\nNihad Awad (Arabic: نهاد عوض) is the co-founder and Chief Executive Officer of the Council on American-Islamic Relations (CAIR).\n\nNihad Awad was born in Amman New Camp, a Palestinian refugee camp in Amman, Jordan. He studied at Second Amman Preparatory School for Boys, located at the camp and belongs to UNRWA, and at Salaheddine High School in Achrafieh in Jordan. He moved to Italy and later to the United States to pursue his university studies.\n\nAfter studying civil engineering at the University of Minnesota in the 1990s, he worked at the University of Minnesota Medical Center. After the Gulf War, he was Public Relations Director for the Islamic Association for Palestine (IAP).\n\nIn June 1994, IAP President Omar Ahmad and others founded the Council on American-Islamic Relations (CAIR), and Awad was hired as the Executive Director. In a March 1994 speech at Barry University, future CAIR Executive Director Awad said in response to an audience question about the various humanitarian efforts in the Palestinian Occupied Territories, \"I am in support of the Hamas movement more than the PLO... there are some [Hamas] radicals, we are not interested in those people.\" According to CAIR, at the time Awad expressed support for Hamas, the group had not conducted suicide bombings and was not designated a terrorist organization by the US. Awad has said he no longer supports the group and has condemned suicide bombings. \n\nA few days after the September 11 attacks in 2001, Awad was one of a select group American Muslim leaders invited by the White House to join President Bush in a press conference condemning the attacks and acts of anti-Muslim intolerance that followed.\n\nIn April 2011, Rep. Frank Wolf, R-Va. cited a 2009 letter sent from Awad, to Muammar Gaddafi asking Gaddafi for funding for a project called the Muslim Peace Foundation at a U.S. House of Representatives Appropriations sub-committee hearing with Robert Mueller. The letter also said, in part, \"I am pleased to send to Your Excellency in my name most solemn assurances of thanks and appreciation for the efforts you exert in the service of Islam, Muslims and all mankind through your initiative to teach Islam, spread the culture of Islam, and solve disputes, for which you are known internationally.\" Steven Emerson criticized the funding request, calling it \"hypocritical\".,\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1906538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906538", "title": "Zozo Marine Stadium", "text": "Zozo Marine Stadium\n\nThe official opening of the stadium was on April 13, 1990, when popstar Madonna opened her Blond Ambition Tour at the venue. The show was blighted by heavy rain and high winds which led to the concert being dramatically scaled back, as documented in her documentary \"\".\n\nLady Gaga performed 2 sold-out shows at the venue on August 13 and 14, 2014, for her tour.\n\nThe Summer Sonic Festival and Makuhari Messe are held at the stadium every summer as well as the Electric Daisy Carnival music festival which was first held at the stadium in 2017.\n\n"}
{"id": "1906546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906546", "title": "Kruspe", "text": "Kruspe\n\nKruspe:\n"}
{"id": "1906552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906552", "title": "Shirley Collins (politician)", "text": "Shirley Collins (politician)\n\nShirley Jean Collins (born October 10, 1952) is a former politician in Ontario, Canada. She served in the Legislative Assembly of Ontario as a Liberal from 1987 to 1990, and was a cabinet minister in the government of David Peterson.\n\nCollins was educated at McMaster University. She was a special assistant to federal Member of Parliament John Munro from 1979 to 1981, and a constituency assistant to Member of Provincial Parliament Sheila Copps from 1981 to 1982. From 1982 to 1987, Collins served as an alderman and regional councillor in Hamilton. Her son Chad is a member of the Hamilton City Council.\n\nCollins ran for the Ontario legislature in the 1985 provincial election, losing to incumbent New Democrat Robert W. Mackenzie by 1,600 votes in the Hamilton East constituency. In the 1987 election, she was handily elected in the neighbouring riding of Wentworth East.\n\nOn August 2, 1989, Collins was named a minister without portfolio responsible for Handicapped Persons. She held this position for just over a year.\n\nThe Liberals were defeated by the New Democratic Party in the 1990 provincial election, and Collins lost her seat to NDP candidate Mark Morrow by 3,147 votes. She ran again in the 1995 election, but lost to Progressive Conservative Ed Doyle by 3,606 votes.\n\nAfter leaving the legislature, Collins became the owner and operator of a private investigation agency. She was appointed to the Canadian Immigration and Refugee Board in 2003. She has been a member of the Ontario Landlord and Tenant Board since 2009.\n"}
{"id": "1906553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906553", "title": "The GTOs", "text": "The GTOs\n\nThe GTOs (Girls Together Outrageously) were an all-girl group from the Los Angeles area, specifically the Sunset Strip scene. Active for only two and a half years (1968–1970) with a single reunion in 1974, their only album, \"Permanent Damage\", produced by Frank Zappa, was released in 1969.\n\n\nPamela Miller and Linda Parker met around 1966 while attending Cleveland High School in Los Angeles. Christine Frka traveled to Los Angeles from San Pedro with Sandra Rowe, and both lived in the basement of Frank Zappa's Log Cabin at 2401 Laurel Canyon Boulevard in the Hollywood Hills in 1968. Frka was the live-in nanny for Zappa's eldest child Moon Unit before Miller took over the following year. Judith Peters had emigrated from the Haight Ashbury to Los Angeles due to \"boredom\", alleging she \"couldn't be a hippie forever.\" Cynthia Wells was brought into the group by Peters after the nucleus of the group had been formed. This accounts for Miss Cynderella's presence in some, but not all, of the GTOs' publicity shots. Lucy Offerall also was not an original member but joined after the recording of \"Permanent Damage.\"\n\nThe group initially called themselves the Cherry Sisters but soon changed to the Laurel Canyon Ballet Company. Frank Zappa later changed their name to the GTOs, which he described as \"an acronym which, as Stanley Booth wrote, could mean Girls Together Outrageously, Orally, or anything else starting with O.\" On their album's inner sleeve, the acronym is also defined as \"Girls Together Occasionally\", \"Girls Together Often\", and \"Girls Together Only\". Miss Lucy stated in an interview that the latter name is what it stood for, though it is understood by most that the name on the album, Girls Together Outrageously, is the name of the group.\n\nThe members were connected by their association with Zappa, who encouraged their artistic endeavors despite their limited vocal skills. The group performed live \"only 4 or 5 times\", although they created a strong impression at their December 1968 performance at the Shrine Auditorium opening for The Mothers of Invention, Alice Cooper and Wild Man Fischer. A mix of theatrics, singing, dancing, wild costumes, and unusual lyrical content were staples of their act. Their only album, \"Permanent Damage\" (Straight Records), was produced in 1969 by Zappa with the assistance of Lowell George and Russ Titelman on tracks 7 and 11. The latter track also features Titelman's brother-in-law, guitarist Ry Cooder, and both appear on Captain Beefheart's \"Safe as Milk\" album. Track 5 \"The Captain's Fat Theresa Shoes\" is a GTO comment on Beefheart's taste in footwear (his cousin Victor Hayden had introduced him to Pamela Des Barres). The songs are mixed with conversations among the members of the group, friends, and others, including Cynthia Plaster Caster and Rodney Bingenheimer. The album features songwriting contributions from Lowell George, Jeff Beck, and Davy Jones. A young Rod Stewart is featured on track 14. \"Permanent Damage\" was re-issued on CD in 1989 by Enigma Retro.\n\n\nFour tracks from \"Permanent Damage\" also were released on Warner/Reprise Loss Leaders compilation albums: \n\n"}
{"id": "1906558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906558", "title": "Mike Festa", "text": "Mike Festa\n\nMike Festa is state director of AARP Massachusetts, based in Boston, which serves 800,000 members age 50+ in the commonwealth.\n\nHe has had a longstanding law practice in his hometown of Melrose. He is the former President of the Carroll Center for the Blind, located in Newton, Massachusetts. He is also an Adjunct Professor at Suffolk University, Graduate School of Public Management. Festa formerly served as the Secretary of Elder Affairs for the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. His resignation as Secretary of Elder Affairs was announced by the Governor's Office on January 31, 2009. He was formerly the state representative for Melrose, Massachusetts and parts of Wakefield, Massachusetts. Festa ran for Middlesex County District Attorney in 2007 but dropped out of the race.\n\nHe attended Melrose High School, 1972; Tufts University, B.A. 1976; Suffolk University Law School, J.D. 1979\n\nFrom 1979 to 1981 he held office as the assistant district attorney, Middlesex County.\nFesta has also been an attorney in private practice since 1981.\n\n\nOther activities:\n\nFesta is married to Sandra Festa (since 1980), with two children: Michael, age 32, a computer engineer at WayFair, Boston Massachusetts, who graduated from George Washington University in 2006, and Danielle, age 30, a painter, graphic artist and web-designer, who graduated from UMASS Amherst.\n\n"}
{"id": "1906560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906560", "title": "Lantern Books", "text": "Lantern Books\n\nLantern Books is an American book publisher founded in 1998, first located in Union Square (New York City), and now with offices in Brooklyn. It \"publishes books for all wanting to live with greater spiritual depth and commitment to the preservation of the natural world\". The subject areas that Lantern Books covers include vegetarianism/veganism, environmentalism, animal rights/animal welfare, spirituality, natural healing, and social justice. Lantern Books is a division of Booklight Incorporated. Lantern Books distributes books published by American Mental Health Foundation Books, Chiron Publications, Samhita Publications, Ryce Publications, and Stealth Technologies. Lantern is in turn distributed by Steiner Books (dedicated to books by and about Rudolf Steiner).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1906562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906562", "title": "Kobe Sports Park Baseball Stadium", "text": "Kobe Sports Park Baseball Stadium\n\nThe stadium's field is one of two ballparks in Japan to have an American-style baseball field: An all-grass outfield and infield, with dirt basepaths. It opened on March 6, 1988 and holds 35,000 people.\n\n\nKobe Baseball Stadium is the first baseball park in Japan to install naming rights.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1906566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906566", "title": "James Kabarebe", "text": "James Kabarebe\n\nJames Kabarebe (born 1959) is a Rwandan military officer who has served as a Senior Presidential Adviser on security matters in the government of Rwanda, since 19 October 2018.\n\nKabarebe was a key figure in both the First Congo War and the Second Congo War as a commanding officer. Like many officers from both sides of those wars he is accused of leading numerous atrocities against civilians. \n\nFrom 10 April 2010 until 18 October 2018, he was the Rwandan Minister of Defence. He served as a Rwandan Patriotic Army Commander and was an Alliance of Democratic Forces for the Liberation of Congo strategist. In his role of Minister of Defence he was accused of being the de facto leader of the March 23 Movement, a militia in the eastern Democratic Republic of Congo also accused of numerous atrocities against civilians during the Kivu conflict.\n\nJames Kabarabe was born in 1959. Raised in Ibanda-Kazo area of western Uganda, he sat his A level education at St. Henry's College Kitovu in 1979. He later attended Makerere University, where he received a Bachelor of Arts degree in Economics and Political Science. He was commissioned in 1989.\n\nJames Kabarebe was the private secretary and aide-de-camp (ADC) of Maj. Gen. Paul Kagame. During the Rwandan Civil War, he became Commander of the High Command Unit at Mulindi. Later, this unit became the Republican Guard under Kagame's leadership.\n\nAccording to reports leaked from the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda to reporter and author Judi Rever, Kabarebe presided over the massacre of Hutu civilians in Byumba, north of Kigali, in late April 1994. He arrived at the Byumba stadium and massacre site, \"talked with his military colleagues,\" and \"after Kabarebe left, a Lieutenant Masumbuko gave the order to 'open fire on the refugess'\", Rever reports in her 2018 book, \"In Praise of Blood\". According to Rever, \"Kabarebe's presence inside the stadium has been independently confirmed by several sources interviewed by the tribunal and by me.\"\n\nDuring the First Congo War, Kabarebe was the commanding officer of a Rwandan-led army that crossed into Zaire (now the Democratic Republic of the Congo). The aim of the army was to defeat the ex-FAR and Interahamwe, Hutu militia groups that had committed the Rwandan genocide and were engaged in cross-border attacks on Rwanda, destroy the refugee camps that the militia groups and Hutu civilians were living in, and overthrow Zairian President Mobutu Sese Seko. \n\nAs chief military strategist in Laurent-Désiré Kabila's rebel Alliance of Democratic Forces for the Liberation of Congo (ADFL), Kabarebe helped engineer the capture of Kinshasa, the capital of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, on May 17, 1997, and the defeat of Mobutu Sese Seko. \n\nAt the end of this mission, he was appointed Chief of Staff of the Congolese Army by Kabila. However, relations between Rwanda and Kabila soon deteriorated in circumstances that would eventually lead to the Second Congo War. Fearing a coup d'état, around 27 July 1998, Kabila dismissed Kabarebe from his post. Kabila then appointed General Célestin Kifwa, a Congolese who had previously served in Angola.\n\nIn his time as chief of staff, the 10th division, stationed in eastern Congo, began adding more Banyamulenge, Banyarwanda and ex-FAR troops who tended to oppose Kabila. Following his dismissal as Chief of Staff in July 1998, Kabarebe and Ugandan and Congolese allies began planning an attack on western Congo, intended to quickly topple the Kabila regime. On August 4, he lead an airborne assault on Kitona Air Field airlifting with him around 3,000 RPA and UPDF soldiers.\n\nHis troops advanced quickly, taking major ports and infrastructure in eastern Congo in a matter of days. In their march the coalition is alleged to have raped and murdered civilians and pillaged banks. In an effort to take Kinshasa the coalition cutoff the power to the city causing according to the UN \"the death of an unknown number of civilians, particularly children and hospital patients.\"\n\nBy August 22 he had reached Kinshasa, but Zimbabwean, Namibian, and Angolan intervention prevented his troops from taking and deposing Kabila. He was forced to withdraw to Angola until final evacuation in December 1998. During the retreat of the coalition forces, the Angolan Armed Forces are alleged to have carried out similar atrocities as the coalition did on its march towards Kinshasa.\n\nIn October 2002, president Paul Kagame appointed James Kabarebe to the position of Chief of Defence Staff of the Rwandan Defence Forces (formerly Rwandan Patriotic Army).\n\nKabarebe is one of ten Rwandan officials accused in 2006 by Jean-Louis Bruguière, a French judge, of having taken part in the shooting down of the plane of then-president Juvenal Habyarimana. Kabarebe and other senior official have denied these claims. \n\nIn 2012, a report from a United Nations Security Council group of experts accused Kabarebe and other Rwandan officials of being the de facto leaders of the M23 militia. M23 is accused of carrying out killings, rapes and other atrocities in the eastern Democratic Republic of Congo. Kabarebe and Rwanda deny the charges.\n\nIn February, 2008, a Spanish judge issued arrest warrants against 40 Rwandan officers including Kabarebe. The warrant specifies his role in \"the mass killing of Rwandan refugees and the Congolese civilian population. The found evidence of criminal activity against President Kagame as well but could not indict him due to his immunity as a head of state. Rwanda does not have an extradition treaty with Spain.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1906579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906579", "title": "Anacyclosis", "text": "Anacyclosis\n\nThe political doctrine of anacyclosis (or \"anakyklosis\" from ) is a cyclical theory of political evolution. The theory of anacyclosis is based upon the Greek typology of constitutional forms of rule by the one, the few, and the many. Anacyclosis states that three basic forms of \"benign\" government (monarchy, aristocracy, and democracy) are inherently weak and unstable, tending to degenerate rapidly into the three basic forms of \"malignant\" government (tyranny, oligarchy, and ochlocracy).\n\nAccording to the doctrine, \"benign\" governments have the interests of all at heart, whereas \"malignant\" governments have the interests of a select few at heart. However, all six are considered unworkable because the first three rapidly transform into the latter three due to political corruption. \n\nThe idea of anacyclosis influenced theorists of republicanism. Some of them, including Aristotle, Cicero, Machiavelli, Vico and Kant suggested that mixed government might help to stabilize republics and prevent permanent anacyclosis.\n\nPolybius' sequence of anacyclosis proceeds in the following order: 1. monarchy, 2. kingship, 3. tyranny, 4. aristocracy, 5. oligarchy, 6. democracy, and 7. ochlocracy. \n\nAccording to Polybius' elaboration of the theory, the state begins in a form of primitive monarchy. The state will emerge from monarchy under the leadership of an influential and wise king; this represents the emergence of \"kingship\". Political power will pass by hereditary succession to the children of the king, who will abuse their authority for their own gain; this represents the degeneration of kingship into \"tyranny\".\n\nSome of the more influential and powerful men of the state will grow weary of the abuses of tyrants, and will overthrow them; this represents the ascendancy of \"aristocracy\" (as well as the end of the \"rule by the one\" and the beginning of the \"rule by the few\").\n\nJust as the descendants of kings, however, political influence will pass to the descendants of the aristocrats, and these descendants will begin to abuse their power and influence, as the tyrants before them; this represents the decline of aristocracy and the beginning of \"oligarchy\". As Polybius explains, the people will by this stage in the political evolution of the state decide to take political matters into their own hands.\n\nThis point of the cycle sees the emergence of \"democracy\", as well as the beginning of \"rule by the many\". In the same way that the descendants of kings and aristocrats abused their political status, so too will the descendants of democrats. Accordingly, democracy degenerates into \"ochlocracy\", literally, \"mob-rule\". In an ochlocracy, according to Polybius, the people of the state will become corrupted, and will develop a sense of entitlement and will be conditioned to accept the pandering of demagogues.\n\nEventually, the state will be engulfed in chaos, and the competing claims of demagogues will culminate in a single (sometimes virtuous) demagogue claiming absolute power, bringing the state full-circle back to monarchy.\n\nThis theory was developed in stages by the ancient Greek philosophers Plato and Aristotle, but is mainly attributable to the ancient Greek historian Polybius. Polybius' explanation of anacyclosis is found in Book VI of \"The Histories\".\n\nCicero describes anacyclosis in his philosophical work \"De re publica.\"\n\nMachiavelli references anacyclosis in Book I, Chapter II in his \"Discourses on Livy\".\n\nFrancesco Sansovino described anacyclosis his 1583 work \"Propositioni, Overo Considerationi in Materia di Cose di Stato Sotto Titolo di Avvertimenti, Avvedimenti Civili & Concetti Politici\".\n\nJohn Adams described anacyclosis in Letter XXXI (Ancient Republics, and Opinions of Philosophers) of his 1787 work \"Defense of the Constitutions of the United States\".\n\nAnacyclosis was evaluated in detail by F. W. Walbank in his \"A Historical Commentary on Polybius\" (Oxford, 1957) (see Volume I, Book VI).\n\nAnacyclosis was also analyzed at length by G. W. Trompf in \"The Idea of Historical Recurrence in Western Thought\" (University of California, 1979) (see Chapter 1: The Polybian Anacyclosis or Cycle of Governments). \n\nIn 2013, The Institute for Anacyclosis, a nonpartisan, nonprofit corporation, was incorporated to research anacyclosis and related ideas. The Institute for Anacyclosis has developed an updated model of anacyclosis based on the classical Polybian version.\n\nJean-Claude Milner in his 2016 book \"Rereading the Revolution\" uses anacyclosis to read the French Revolution and its consequences.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1906583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906583", "title": "Chris Philp", "text": "Chris Philp\n\nChristopher Ian Brian Mynott Philp (born 6 July 1976) is a British Conservative Party politician. He was elected in May 2015 as the Member of Parliament (MP) for Croydon South. In August 2019 he was appointed Parliamentary Private Secretary to the Chancellor of the Exchequer. In September 2019 he was appointed Parliamentary Under Secretary for the Ministry of Justice and in February 2020 at the Home Office. Prior to his political career, he was a businessman.\n\nPhilp was brought up in West Wickham, close to the border of Bromley and Croydon, where his mother, Edna (née Mynott) was a primary school teacher and his father, Dr Brian Philp was an archaeologist. Philp was educated at a state primary school in West Wickham, St Olave's Grammar School in Orpington, and then at University College, Oxford, graduating with a first class bachelor's degree in Physics.\n\nIn 1996 he was editor of the Oxford University student newspaper, \"Cherwell\". He then completed a master's degree in theoretical quantum mechanics.\n\nPhilp worked for McKinsey and Company advising the boards of FTSE 100 companies before co-founding distribution business Blueheath Holdings, in 2000. The company grew from nothing to £70 million of turnover in four years, and was floated on the AIM before merging with Booker Cash & Carry as part of the Booker Group in a £375 million deal.\n\nHe joined forces with Sam Gyimah, from 2010 a Conservative MP, to found Clearstone Training and Recruitment Limited, a HGV training provider, which sold its assets to RCaptial in 2007.\n\nPhilp also founded property development lender Pluto Finance (UK) LLP, which is registered in the UK and the charity Next Big Thing, a business plan competition for inner-city teenagers which was eventually handed over to The Mercers' Company.\n\nPhilp was voted London's Emerging Entrepreneur of the Year by Ernst & Young and \"The Times\" in 2003, alongside being voted the CBI's Entrepreneur of the Future, 2005. In 2005, Philp was listed as one of the UK's top 50 entrepreneurs by startups.co.uk,\n\nPhilp was Chairman of the Bow Group, a Conservative Party think tank, from 2004 to 2005. Philp defeated the Labour Leader of Camden Council to be become a Councillor in the Gospel Oak ward of Camden in May 2006 with a swing of over 10%, the first Conservative to win the ward in over 20 years.\n\nAt the 2010 general election Philp was the Conservative Parliamentary candidate for Hampstead and Kilburn, losing by 42 votes to the Labour's sitting MP Glenda Jackson and increasing the Conservative vote share of the vote by nearly 10 percentage points compared to the previous election.\n\nPhilp's book \"Conservative Revival: Blueprint for a Better Britain\" was published in conjunction with the Bow Group and was co-authored by 10 Conservative MPs, or recent candidates in their 30s. The book was an important contribution to the modernisation of the Conservative Party, with a foreword written by David Cameron, the then Leader of the Opposition. Philp was also the author of \"Work for the Dole: A proposal to fix welfare dependency\", published by The Taxpayers' Alliance in September 2013. His report called for mandatory participation in community work and training in return for the continued payment of benefits payments.\n\nIn November 2013, Philp was selected to be the Conservative parliamentary candidate for Croydon South, the seat was held by the then Conservative MP Richard Ottaway, who was retiring at the next general election. On 8 May 2015, he was elected as the Member of Parliament for Croydon South, and with a majority of over 17,000; the highest achieved in the constituency for over 20 years.\n\nShortly after being elected to Parliament, Philp became the first of the 2015 Conservative intake to be elected by other MPs to the influential Treasury Select Committee.\n\nPhilp is an outspoken critic of Govia Thameslink Railway's ownership of Southern Rail, the performance of which he has described as \"abysmal\". Philp has called for the Government to take control of the Southern Rail franchise and for cross-party support in ending disputes between Southern Rail and the RMT Union. He proposed a Private Member's Bill to ban 'unreasonable' and 'damaging' strikes on essential services, including trains.\n\nPhilp wrote \"Restoring Responsible Ownership\", a report on corporate rules which recommended greater shareholder control over company directors' appointments and pay. Philp's proposals received positive coverage for mounting 'pressure' and arguing that 'asset managers had to do much more to engage with companies, in particular to exert some degree of control over executive pay.'\n\nPhilp was opposed to Brexit prior to the 2016 European membership referendum. Philp has publicly declared his support for grammar schools, stating 'grammar schools have proven an excellent way to help children from poorer backgrounds achieve their full potential.'\n\nIn May 2016, when debating the Government's Starter Homes Initiative, Philp was accused by housing charities of failing to understand how a couple buying a house for the first time cannot afford a £10,000 deposit. Responding to criticism, he stated 'No one says it is easy, the average age of a first time buyer these days is about 30 so people have 10 years to save £5,000.'\n\nIn 2017 Philp published his report 'Homes for Everyone', which called for radical changes to housing policy to improve affordability. The report was described as 'containing many ideas that deserve serious consideration if we are to make home ownership the norm for young people' by Robert Colvile, the Director of the Centre for Policy Studies.\n\nFollowing the 2017 General Election, Philp was appointed Parliamentary Private Secretary (PPS) to HM Treasury Ministers. Philp was made PPS to Sajid Javid then Secretary of State for the Ministry Housing, Communities and Local Government on 22 January 2018. Between December 2018 to May 2019 he was the Conservative Party Vice Chairman for Policy.\n\nPhilp led a successful campaign to cut business rates for small businesses in 2018. The cut in business rates featured in the 2018 October budget, during which Philp received thanks from the Chancellor, Philip Hammond, for proposing the policy.\n\nIn July 2019, Philp voted in favour of an amendment to allow same-sex marriage in Northern Ireland. Later that week, he addressed a large crowd at Croydon Pride and criticised the countries in the world where homosexuality is illegal, saying they should be \"named and shamed\". He is an LGBT+ Ally.\n\nIn August 2019, he was appointed as PPS to Sajid Javid, Chancellor of the Exchequer. Philp had backed Javid in the 2019 Conservative Party leadership election. In September, he was appointed Parliamentary Under Secretary for the Ministry of Justice.\n\nPhilp married Elizabeth in 2009. Their twins were born prematurely in April 2013 and spent an extended period in intensive care following their birth.\n"}
{"id": "1906600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906600", "title": "Rumaki", "text": "Rumaki\n\nRumaki or rumake is an hors d'oeuvre of tiki culture origin. It was popularly served at Trader Vic's and other Polynesian restaurants in the 1950s and 1960s. Its ingredients and method of preparation vary, but usually it consists of water chestnuts and pieces of chicken liver wrapped in bacon and marinated in soy sauce and either ginger or brown sugar, then fried or baked.\n\nOne of the earliest references to it is on the 1941 menu of the Don the Beachcomber restaurant (Palm Springs).\n\nThe name, like the dish, was probably invented at Don the Beachcomber's. Its origin is unknown, though it may be short for Japanese \"harumaki\" 'spring roll'.\n\n"}
{"id": "1906602", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906602", "title": "Contubernium", "text": "Contubernium\n\nThe contubernium was the smallest organized unit of soldiers in the Roman Army and was composed of eight legionaries, the equivalent of a modern squad. The men within the contubernium were known as \"contubernales\". Ten contubernia were grouped into a centuria. Soldiers of a contubernium shared a tent, and could be rewarded or punished together as a unit.\n\nThe contubernium was, at least very late in the period (though it is possible the title existed in the late republic and early principate) led by a \"Decanus\", who might crudely be described as the equivalent of a junior non-commissioned officer, however there is no evidence of a decanus exercising any kind of battlefield command role, regardless of any responsibilities they may have had in garrison or camp. They were presumably appointed from within the contubernium and were most likely the longest serving legionary. Their duties would likely have included organising the erection of the marching tent and ensuring their tent-mates kept things tidy.\n\nTwo auxiliary “servants”, vaguely equivalent to modern logistical support troops, were assigned to each contubernium. They were responsible for the care of the contubernium's pack mule, making sure that the legionaries had water during the march, and may have had special skills like blacksmithing or carpentry (however legionaries often fulfilled specialist roles so it is very possible that they were simply grooms and servants.) There were 10 contubernia (8 men) each led by a decanus, in a century (100 men including 20 support staff) which was commanded by a centurion.\n\n"}
{"id": "1906603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906603", "title": "The Darfsteller", "text": "The Darfsteller\n\n\"The Darfsteller\" is a 1955 science fiction novelette by American writer Walter M. Miller, Jr., which won the first Hugo Award for Best Novelette. It was originally published in \" Astounding Science Fiction\" of January 1955.\n\nIt is the 21st century story of an old stage actor who has become a theater janitor in order to remain near \"show biz\". The theater has been overtaken by robot actors, made to look like humans, which act out plays under the direction of each venue's central computer. This \"Maestro\" runs the show, accommodating the kinds of factors which real actors would contend with: audience reactions, failing mechanical actors (when they are broken or one of the tapes that they get their programming from is worn), and other inconstant factors.\n\nThe old actor dreams up a scheme to get himself back on stage, despite the prejudice against real acting. He destroys one of the robot's tapes, and since he knows the part from his previous career, he is the only way the show can go on. \n\nThe old actor's problem is that he has always been a \"darfsteller\" (likely a portmanteau of \"Darsteller\", German for \"actor/actress\", with \"darf\", inflected form of \"dürfen\", \"to be at liberty to do something\") which the narrator explains was a \"self-directed actor... the undirectable portrayer whose acting welled from unconscious sources with no external strings\", generally hated by directors even when they performed excellently. The meaning of the story comes from the point that he cannot just walk onto the stage and deliver lines; as a \"Darfsteller\", he must live them, and transform himself into his role, and once that process begins, it is difficult to stop it.\n"}
{"id": "1906605", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906605", "title": "Wabigoon Lake", "text": "Wabigoon Lake\n\nWabigoon Lake is a lake in Kenora District in northwestern Ontario, Canada. The community of Dryden (pop 8,198) is located on the north shore of the lake, and the primary inflow and outflow is the Wabigoon River. A dam built to provide power for the early pulp and paper company raised the original level of the lake by several feet and its current average depth is , destroying a significant amount of the local timber and wild rice in the process.\n\nThe name \"Wabigoon\" comes from the Ojibwe \"waabigon\", \"marigold\", or \"waabi-miigwan\", \"white feather\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1906606", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906606", "title": "San Bartolomé", "text": "San Bartolomé\n\nSan Bartolomé may refer to the following places:\n\n\nIn Oaxaca State:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1906607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906607", "title": "William H. Jefferys", "text": "William H. Jefferys\n\nWilliam H. \"Bill\" Jefferys (born 1940) is an American astronomer. He is a Harlan J. Smith Centennial Professor of Astronomy (Emeritus) of astronomy at The University of Texas at Austin, and an adjunct professor of statistics at the University of Vermont.\n\nJefferys specialized in astrometry, celestial mechanics, and astrophysics, including the kinematics and dynamics of astronomical bodies. He has also worked in the field of Bayesian statistics, particularly with astronomical applications. He was the Hubble Space Telescope Astrometry Science Team leader, and participated in the project that repaired the Hubble Space Telescope after the discovery of its initial optical defect.\n\nJefferys served as chairman of The University of Texas Department of Astronomy from 1994 to 1998. He retired from the University of Texas in 2004 and moved to Vermont in 2005, where he accepted an appointment as adjunct professor of statistics at the University of Vermont.\n\n"}
{"id": "1906608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906608", "title": "Named-entity recognition", "text": "Named-entity recognition\n\nNamed-entity recognition (NER) (also known as entity identification, entity chunking and entity extraction) is a subtask of information extraction that seeks to locate and classify named entities mentioned in unstructured text into pre-defined categories such as person names, organizations, locations, medical codes, time expressions, quantities, monetary values, percentages, etc.\n\nMost research on NER systems has been structured as taking an unannotated block of text, such as this one:\n\nAnd producing an annotated block of text that highlights the names of entities:\n\nIn this example, a person name consisting of one token, a two-token company name and a temporal expression have been detected and classified.\n\nState-of-the-art NER systems for English produce near-human performance. For example, the best system entering MUC-7 scored 93.39% of F-measure while human annotators scored 97.60% and 96.95%.\n\nNotable NER platforms include:\n\nIn the expression \"named entity\", the word \"named\" restricts the task to those entities for which one or many strings, such as words or phrases, stands (fairly) consistently for some referent. This is closely related to rigid designators, as defined by Kripke, although in practice NER deals with many names and referents that are not philosophically \"rigid\". For instance, the \"automotive company created by Henry Ford in 1903\" can be referred to as \"Ford\" or \"Ford Motor Company\", although \"Ford\" can refer to many other entities as well (see Ford). Rigid designators include proper names as well as terms for certain biological species and substances, but exclude pronouns (such as \"it\"; see coreference resolution), descriptions that pick out a referent by its properties (see also De dicto and de re), and names for kinds of things as opposed to individuals (for example \"Bank\").\n\nFull named-entity recognition is often broken down, conceptually and possibly also in implementations, as two distinct problems: detection of names, and classification of the names by the type of entity they refer to (e.g. person, organization, location and other).\nThe first phase is typically simplified to a segmentation problem: names are defined to be contiguous spans of tokens, with no nesting, so that \"Bank of America\" is a single name, disregarding the fact that inside this name, the substring \"America\" is itself a name. This segmentation problem is formally similar to chunking. The second phase requires choosing an ontology by which to organize categories of things.\n\nTemporal expressions and some numerical expressions (i.e., money, percentages, etc.) may also be considered as named entities in the context of the NER task. While some instances of these types are good examples of rigid designators (e.g., the year 2001) there are also many invalid ones (e.g., I take my vacations in “June”). In the first case, the year \"2001\" refers to the \"2001st year of the Gregorian calendar\". In the second case, the month \"June\" may refer to the month of an undefined year (\"past June\", \"next June\", \"every June\", etc.). It is arguable that the definition of \"named entity\" is loosened in such cases for practical reasons. The definition of the term \"named entity\" is therefore not strict and often has to be explained in the context in which it is used.\n\nCertain hierarchies of named entity types have been proposed in the literature. BBN categories, proposed in 2002, is used for \"question answering\" and consists of 29 types and 64 subtypes. Sekine's extended hierarchy, proposed in 2002, is made of 200 subtypes. More recently, in 2011 Ritter used a hierarchy based on common Freebase entity types in ground-breaking experiments on NER over social media text.\n\nTo evaluate the quality of a NER system's output, several measures have been defined. The usual measures are called\nPrecision, recall, and F1 score. However, several issues remain in just how to calculate those values.\n\nThese statistical measures work reasonably well for the obvious cases of finding or missing a real entity exactly; and for finding a non-entity. However, NER can fail in many other ways, many of which are arguably \"partially correct\", and should not be counted as complete success or failures. For example, identifying a real entity, but: \n\nOne overly simple method of measuring accuracy, is merely to count what fraction of all tokens in the text were correctly or incorrectly identified as part of entity references (or as being entities of the correct type). This suffers from at least two problems: First, the vast majority of tokens in real-world text are not part of entity names, so the baseline accuracy (always predict \"not an entity\") is extravagantly high, typically >90%; and second, mispredicting the full span of an entity name is not properly penalized (finding only a person's first name when their last name follows might be scored as ½ accuracy).\n\nIn academic conferences such as CoNLL, a variant of the F1 score has been defined as follows:\n\n\nIt follows from the above definition that any prediction that misses a single token, includes a spurious token, or has the wrong class, is a hard error and does not contribute positively to either precision or recall. Thus, this measure may be said to be pessimistic: it can be the case that many \"errors\" are close to correct, and might be adequate for a given purpose. For example, one system might always omit titles such as \"Ms.\" or \"Ph.D.\", but be compared to a system or ground-truth data that expects titles to be included. In that case, every such name is treated as an error. Because of such issues, it is important actually to examine the kinds of errors, and decide how important they are given one's goals and requirements.\n\nEvaluation models based on a token-by-token matching have been proposed. Such models may given partial credit for overlapping matches (such as using the Intersection over Union criterion. They allow a finer grained evaluation and comparison of extraction systems.\n\nNER systems have been created that use linguistic grammar-based techniques as well as statistical models such as machine learning. Hand-crafted grammar-based systems typically obtain better precision, but at the cost of lower recall and months of work by experienced computational linguists. Statistical NER systems typically require a large amount of manually annotated training data. Semisupervised approaches have been suggested to avoid part of the annotation effort.\n\nMany different classifier types have been used to perform machine-learned NER, with conditional random fields being a typical choice.\n\nIn 2001, research indicated that even state-of-the-art NER systems were brittle, meaning that NER systems developed for one domain did not typically perform well on other domains. Considerable effort is involved in tuning NER systems to perform well in a new domain; this is true for both rule-based and trainable statistical systems.\n\nEarly work in NER systems in the 1990s was aimed primarily at extraction from journalistic articles. Attention then turned to processing of military dispatches and reports. Later stages of the automatic content extraction (ACE) evaluation also included several types of informal text styles, such as weblogs and text transcripts from conversational telephone speech conversations. Since about 1998, there has been a great deal of interest in entity identification in the molecular biology, bioinformatics, and medical natural language processing communities. The most common entity of interest in that domain has been names of genes and gene products. There has been also considerable interest in the recognition of chemical entities and drugs in the context of the CHEMDNER\ncompetition, with 27 teams participating in this task.\n\nDespite the high F1 numbers reported on the MUC-7 dataset, the problem of named-entity recognition is far from being solved. The main efforts are directed to reducing the annotation labor by employing semi-supervised learning, robust performance across domains and scaling up to fine-grained entity types. In recent years, many projects have turned to crowdsourcing, which is a promising solution to obtain high-quality aggregate human judgments for supervised and semi-supervised machine learning approaches to NER. Another challenging task is devising models to deal with linguistically complex contexts such as Twitter and search queries.\n\nThere are some researchers who did some comparisons about the NER performances from different statistical models such as HMM (hidden Markov model), ME (maximum entropy), and CRF (conditional random fields), and feature sets. And some researchers recently proposed graph-based semi-supervised learning model for language specific NER tasks.\n\nA recently emerging task of identifying \"important expressions\" in text and cross-linking them to Wikipedia can be seen as an instance of extremely fine-grained named-entity recognition, where the types are the actual Wikipedia pages describing the (potentially ambiguous) concepts. Below is an example output of a Wikification system:\n\n<ENTITY url=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Michael_I._Jordan\"> Michael Jordan </ENTITY> is a professor at <ENTITY url=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/University_of_California,_Berkeley\"> Berkeley </ENTITY>\nAnother field that has seen progress but remains challenging is the application of NER to Twitter and other microblogs.\n\n"}
{"id": "1906633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906633", "title": "Yves Bonnefoy", "text": "Yves Bonnefoy\n\nYves Jean Bonnefoy (24 June 1923, Tours – 1 July 2016 Paris) was a French poet and art historian. He also published a number of translations, most notably the plays of William Shakespeare which are considered among the best in French. He was professor at the Collège de France from 1981 to 1993 and is the author of several works on art, art history, and artists including Miró and Giacometti, and a monograph on Paris-based Iranian artist Farhad Ostovani. \"The Encyclopædia Britannica\" states that Bonnefoy was ″perhaps the most important French poet of the latter half of the 20th century.″\n\nBonnefoy was born in Tours, Indre-et-Loire, the son of Marius Elie Bonnefoy, a railroad worker, and Hélène Maury, a teacher. He studied mathematics and philosophy at the Universities of Poitiers and the Sorbonne in Paris. After the Second World War he travelled in Europe and the United States and studied art history. From 1945 to 1947 he was associated with the Surrealists in Paris (a short-lived influence that is at its strongest in his first published work, \"Traité du pianiste\" (1946)). But it was with the highly personal \"\" (\"On the Motion and Immobility of Douve\", 1953) that Bonnefoy found his voice and that his name first came to public notice. Bonnefoy's style is remarkable for the deceptive simplicity of its vocabulary.\n\nBonnefoy's work has been translated into English by, among others, Emily Grosholz, Galway Kinnell, John Naughton, Alan Baker, Hoyt Rogers, Antony Rudolf, Beverley Bie Brahic and Richard Stamelmann. In 1967 he joined with André du Bouchet, Gaëtan Picon, and Louis-René des Forêts to found \"L'éphémère\", a journal of art and literature. Commenting on his work, Bonnefoy has said:\n\nHe taught literature at a number of universities in Europe and in the USA: Brandeis University, Waltham, Massachusetts (1962–64); Centre Universitaire, Vincennes (1969–1970); Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore; Princeton University, New Jersey; University of Connecticut, Storrs, Connecticut;Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut; University of Geneva; University of Nice (1973–1976); University of Provence, Aix (1979–1981); and Graduate Center, City University of New York, where he was made an honorary member of the Academy of the Humanities and Sciences. In 1981, following the death of Roland Barthes, he was given the chair of comparative study of poetry at the Collège de France.\n\nBonnefoy died on 1 July 2016 at the age of 93 in Paris. President François Hollande stated of Bonnefoy on his death that he would be remembered for \"elevating our language to its supreme degree of precision and beauty\".\n\nBonnefoy was honoured with a number of prizes throughout his creative life. Early on he was awarded the \"Prix des Critiques\" in 1971. Ten years later, in 1981, The French Academy gave him its grand prize, which was soon followed by the Goncourt Prize for Poetry in 1987. Over the next 15 years, Bonnefoy was awarded both the Prix mondial Cino Del Duca and the Balzan Prize (for Art History and Art Criticism in Europe) in 1995, the Golden Wreath of Struga Poetry Evenings in 1999, and the Grand Prize of the First Masaoka Shiki International Haiku Awards in 2000. Toward the final years of his life, Bonnefoy was recognized with the Franz Kafka Prize in 2007 and, in 2011, he received the Griffin Lifetime Recognition Award, presented by the trustees of the Griffin Poetry Prize. In 2014, he was co-winner of the Janus Pannonius International Poetry Prize.\n\n"}
{"id": "1906634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906634", "title": "Tapenade", "text": "Tapenade\n\nTapenade (; ) is a Provençal name for a dish consisting of puréed or finely chopped olives, capers, and anchovies. Its name comes from the Provençal word for capers, \"tapenas\" (). It is a popular food in the south of France, where it is generally eaten as an hors d'œuvre spread on bread, and sometimes used to stuff poultry for a main course.\n\nOlive-based dishes with anchovies or vinegar are ubiquitous in Italian cuisine, documented in ancient Roman cookbooks dating back more than a thousand years before the appearance of the Occitan word \"tapenade\". One of the earliest known of such Italian recipes, \"Olivarum conditurae\", appears in Columella's \"De re Rustica\" written in the first century AD. Cato the Elder (234–149 B.C.) also includes a recipe for \"epityrum\", an olive spread very much like a tapenade, in chapter 119 of his \"On Agriculture\". The use of capers is the hallmark of recipes for tapenade.\n\nSometimes tapenade is confused with New Orleans olive salad, a critical component in the New Orleans sandwich the muffaletta. New Orleans olive salad is more properly called a giardiniera. It also does not contain capers, but does contain cauliflower, carrots, and celery.\n\nThe base ingredients of tapenade are olives and capers. The olives (most commonly black olive) and capers are chopped finely, crushed, or blended. Then olive oil is added gradually until the mixture becomes a paste. In various regions tapenade is often flavoured differently, with other ingredients such as garlic, herbs, anchovies, lemon juice, or brandy.\n\nTapenade may be used as part of an appetizer served as a topping on crusty bread or crudités. It may be used as a condiment, as well. Tapenade is also used in preparing fish dishes.\n\n"}
{"id": "1906640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906640", "title": "Chronicon Paschale", "text": "Chronicon Paschale\n\nChronicon Paschale (the Paschal or Easter Chronicle), also called Chronicum Alexandrinum, Constantinopolitanum or Fasti Siculi, is the conventional name of a 7th-century Greek Christian chronicle of the world. Its name comes from its system of chronology based on the Christian paschal cycle; its Greek author named it \"Epitome of the ages from Adam the first man to the 20th year of the reign of the most August Heraclius\".\n\nThe Chronicon Paschale follows earlier chronicles. For the years 600 to 627 the author writes as a contemporary historian—that is, through the last years of emperor Maurice, the reign of Phocas, and the first seventeen years of the reign of Heraclius.\n\nLike many chroniclers, the author of this popular account relates anecdotes, physical descriptions of the chief personages (which at times are careful portraits), extraordinary events such as earthquakes and the appearance of comets, and links Church history with a supposed Biblical chronology. Sempronius Asellio points out the difference in the public appeal and style of composition which distinguished the chroniclers (\"Annales\") from the historians (\"Historia\") of the Eastern Roman Empire.\n\nThe \"Chronicon Paschale\" is a huge compilation, attempting a chronological list of events from the creation of Adam. The principal manuscript, the 10th-century \"Codex Vaticanus græcus\" 1941, is damaged at the beginning and end and stops short at 627. The Chronicle proper is preceded by an introduction containing reflections on Christian chronology and on the calculation of the Paschal (Easter) cycle. The so-called 'Byzantine' or 'Roman' era (which continued in use in Greek Orthodox Christianity until the end of Turkish rule as the 'Julian calendar') was adopted in the Chronicum as the foundation of chronology; in accordance with which the date of the creation is given as 21 March 5507bc.\n\nThe author identifies himself as a contemporary of the Emperor Heraclius (610–641), and was possibly a cleric attached to the suite of the œcumenical Patriarch Sergius. The work was probably written during the last ten years of the reign of Heraclius.\n\nThe chief authorities used were: Sextus Julius Africanus; the \"Fasti consulares\"; the \"Chronicle and Church History\" of Eusebius; John Malalas; the \"Acta Martyrum\"; the treatise of Epiphanius, bishop of Constantia (the old Salamis) in Cyprus (fl. 4th century), on \"Weights and Measures\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1906644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906644", "title": "Epiclesis (composition)", "text": "Epiclesis (composition)\n\nEpiclesis is a composition for flute by Juan María Solare (Cologne, 25–30 September 1995) [Duration: 4:30].\n\nIn the preface to the score, the composer refers to the \"Mathnawi\" of Mawlana Jalaluddin Rumi as an inspiration of this piece. The title, \"Epiclesis\", is to be understood as \"Invocation\", \"specifically the invocation to the divine strength and power.\"\n\nThe piece makes use of the so-called extended techniques: pizzicato, glissando, overtones (harmonics), multiphonics and \"Paukeneffekt\" (tongue ram). According to the score, Solare's \"Epiclesis\" should be played on as \"bass\" a flute as is available (contrabass flute, bass, alto, soprano flute).\n\n\"Epiclesis\" achieved the Second Honorific Mention in the First National Competition \"Juan Carlos Paz\", organized in 1996 by the Fondo Nacional de las Artes (National Endowment for the Arts) in Argentina (category \"piece for unaccompanied instrument\"). Jury: Salvador Ranieri, María Teresa Luengo and Fernando González Casella. It was also finalist at the competition \"Rarescale / Royal College of Music\", London, 2004.\n\n\"Epiclesis\" is Solare's first piece for unaccompanied flute. Up to 2009 he has written round ten pieces for flute solo.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1906655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906655", "title": "Point of No Return (ballet)", "text": "Point of No Return (ballet)\n\nPoint of No Return [5' 00\"] is a \"ballet for tape (stereo)\" composed by Juan Maria Solare. It was designed in Worpswede from January 24, 2002 to January 28, 2002, with details released on March 14, 2002, and made in Cologne at the composer's studio from September 29 to October 5, 2005. Its first performance was on April 13, 2003 at the \"Akademie für Tonkunst\" in Darmstadt, Germany, in the frame of the concert \"\"Begegnung mit Lateinamerika - Elektroakustische Musik\"\" (\"Encounter with Latin America - electroacoustic music\" in German), on the 57th day of the \"Institut für neue Musik und Musikerziehung\" (Institut for New Music and Music Education). It was a mixer in 8-canals by the composer.\n\nIt was broadcast on Radiofabrik in Salzburg on June 13, 2004 in the program \"\"Lyrik und Musik aus Lateinamerika\"\" produced by Luis Alfredo Duarte Herrera. It was also broadcast by the WDR in June 2005 during a program on electroacoustic music of Latin America prepared by Torsten Eßer. It premiered in Argentina during a concert by \"\"Imaginario Sur\"\" of the \"Instituto Universitario Nacional de las Artes\" on August 18, 2004 at the La Manufactura Papelera, Buenos Aires. It won the first prize at the 2nd \"\"Concurso Promociones Electroacústicas\"\" organized by the \"Federación Argentina de Música Electroacústica\" (Regional Buenos Aires) together with the \"Conservatorio Nacional\" and the \"Instituto Tecnológico ORT\" in September 2005. It was also performed at the \"Conservatorio Nacional\" in Buenos Aires on October 7, 2005, in Santa Fe, Argentina in November 2005 within the frame of the 20th \"Reunión de Música Electroacústica\" and on December 12, 2002 at the \"Hochschule für Musik Köln\" in Cologne, in the cycle \"Aula Konzerte\".\n"}
{"id": "1906658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906658", "title": "Earl of Tyrconnell", "text": "Earl of Tyrconnell\n\nThe title Earl of Tyrconnell has been created four times in the Peerage of Ireland.\n\nIt was first created in 1603, for Rory O'Donnell, 1st Earl of Tyrconnell, formerly king of Tyrconnell, along with the subsidiary title Baron Donegal. The 1st Earl was succeeded by his son Hugh O'Donnell, 2nd Earl of Tyrconnell, but both titles were attainted in 1614.\n\nFollowing the self-exile of the Gaelic aristocracy in 1607, and the ensuing Ulster Plantation, it was created a second time in 1661 for the 2nd Viscount FitzWilliam, but became extinct on his death in 1667.\n\nIt was created a third time in 1685 for Sir Richard Talbot, along with the subsidiary titles Viscount Baltinglass and Baron Talbotstown, but all these titles were forfeit in 1691 when Lord Tyrconnell joined King James II against the Glorious Revolution. King James also created him Duke of Tyrconnell and Marquess of Tyrconnell in 1689, but these titles were recognised only by Jacobites (see Jacobite peerage).\n\nThe title was created a fourth and final time in 1761 for the 3rd Baron Carpenter, along with the subsidiary title Viscount Carlingford. These titles became extinct on the death of the 4th Earl in 1853. The 1st Baron Carpenter was a distinguished soldier, who was a Member of Parliament for Whitchurch in 1715–1722 and Westminster from 1722. The 2nd Baron Carpenter was Member of Parliament for Morpeth in 1717–27 and for Weobley in 1741–7\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe Earl had no surviving children. Upon his demise, and then that of his spouse, the Carpenter surname and arms Carpenter was assumed by Royal Licence, dated 1 June 1868, by The Hon. Walter Cecil Carpenter (1834 - 1904), formerly known as The Hon. Walter Cecil Talbot. He later became an Admiral in the Royal Navy.\n\n"}
{"id": "1906665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906665", "title": "Ice Cream for Crow", "text": "Ice Cream for Crow\n\nIce Cream for Crow is the twelfth studio album by Captain Beefheart and the Magic Band, released in September 1982. It is the last Don Van Vliet recorded before abruptly retiring from music to devote himself to a career as a painter. It spent two weeks in the UK album charts, reaching number 90, but failed to make the \"Billboard\" Top 200.\n\nWhile \"Ice Cream for Crow\" was being produced, Herb Cohen had settled his lawsuit with Frank Zappa over the latter withholding the master tapes to Captain Beefheart's unreleased \"Bat Chain Puller\" album. Don Van Vliet proposed that half of the tracks from \"Bat Chain Puller\" be included on \"Ice Cream for Crow\", but Zappa refused Vliet's request, leading Vliet to compose mostly new material for the album (the one exception is the a cappella track \"81 Poop Hatch\", which Vliet included from his own copy of the \"Bat Chain Puller\" tape, although \"The Thousandth And Tenth Day Of The Human Totem Pole\" was rerecorded). The songs \"Semi-Multicolored Caucasian\", \"The Past Sure Is Tense\" and \"The Witch Doctor Life\" had been written for earlier albums but not used.\n\n\"Skeleton Makes Good\" was written in one evening. According to Vliet's biographer Mike Barnes, \"the most original and vital tracks [on the album] are the newer ones.\" Thus, \"Ice Cream for Crow,\" while rooted in past musical ideas, points toward a new musical direction for Captain Beefheart and the Magic Band. Indeed, Barnes writes that the album \"feels like an hors-d'oeuvre for a main course that never came\".\n\nThe album cover features a painting by Van Vliet and a portrait photo of him by Anton Corbijn. A music video was made to promote the title track, directed by Van Vliet and Ken Schreiber, with cinematography by Daniel Pearl, which was rejected by MTV for being \"too weird\". However, the video was included in the Letterman broadcast on NBC-TV, and was accepted into the Museum of Modern Art, where it has been used in several of their programs related to music. Van Vliet explained in a 1982 interview on \"Late Night with David Letterman\" that the album's title represented the contrast between the black of a crow and the white of vanilla ice cream.\n\nDisc jockey John Peel, in his narration to the BBC documentary \"The Artist Formerly Known as Captain Beefheart\", called \"Ice Cream for Crow\" one of Captain Beefheart's best albums.\n\nNed Raggett of AllMusic called the album \"a last entertaining blast of wigginess from one of the few truly independent artists in late 20th century pop music, with humor, skill, and style all still intact\", with the Magic Band \"turning out more choppy rhythms, unexpected guitar lines, and outré arrangements, Captain Beefheart lets everything run wild as always, with successful results\". Raggett says that Beefheart's \"entertainingly outrageous\" spoken word performances are successfully cohered with the Magic Band's \"insanely great arrangement\". Robert Christgau gave the album an A−, saying, \"Ornette or no Ornette, the Captain's sprung delta atonality still provides surprising and irreducible satisfactions, but his poetry repeats itself more than his ideas warrant. Any surrealist ecologist who preaches the same sermon every time out is sure to provoke hostile questions from us concrete-jungle types\".\n\n\nAdditional personnel\n"}
{"id": "1906667", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906667", "title": "B-Sides and Otherwise", "text": "B-Sides and Otherwise\n\nB-Sides and Otherwise is a collection of B-Sides and previously unreleased songs by Morphine, put out in 1997 by Rykodisc.\n\n\n\n- Special Guests:\n"}
{"id": "1906670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906670", "title": "Chris Ward (Canadian politician)", "text": "Chris Ward (Canadian politician)\n\nChristopher Campbell Ward (born June 21, 1949) is a former politician in Ontario, Canada. He served in the Legislative Assembly of Ontario as a Liberal from 1985 to 1990 and was a cabinet minister in the government of David Peterson.\n\nThe son of Albert Charles Ward and Daniella Joy Griffiths, Ward was raised in Ontario and educated in Dundas. In 1971, he married Carol Suzanne Hunter.\n\nHe was elected a ward councillor in Flamborough in 1978, a regional councillor in 1980 and mayor in 1982.\n\nIn 1984, Ward ran for the Ontario legislature in a by-election for the constituency of Wentworth North. He lost to Progressive Conservative Ann Sloat by 169 votes, but a few months later defeated Sloat by 5,168 votes in the 1985 provincial election amid a general surge in support for the Liberal Party. He was re-elected handily in the 1987 election.\n\nWard served as parliamentary assistant to the Minister of Health from June 26, 1985 to January 9, 1987, and as the assistant to Attorney General Ian Scott from January to September 1987. He was promoted to cabinet as Minister of Education on September 29, 1987. Following a cabinet shuffle on August 2, 1989, he was named Minister of Government Services and Government House Leader.\n\nIn the 1990 provincial election, Ward lost his seat to NDP candidate Don Abel by a mere 88 votes. During the campaign, Ward was targeted by a group of local lawyers who opposed the Peterson government's no-fault auto insurance program.\n\nHe attempted to return to the legislature in the 1995 election, but lost to Progressive Conservative candidate Toni Skarica by over 10,000 votes.\n\nHe supported Gerard Kennedy for the leadership of the Ontario Liberal Party in 1996.\n\nAfter leaving politics, Ward became Vice-President of Strategic Planning and Communications for Canada's Research-based Pharmaceutical Companies. He now runs Ward Health Strategies, a consulting firm based in Toronto and Washington, D.C. He has provided briefings to legislators in several American states on behalf of the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America.\n"}
{"id": "1906671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906671", "title": "Millennium Station", "text": "Millennium Station\n\nMillennium Station (formerly Randolph Street terminal; sometimes called Randolph Street station or Randolph/South Water Street station) is a major commuter rail terminal in the Loop (downtown), Chicago. It is the northern terminus of the Metra Electric District to Chicago's southern suburbs, and the western terminus of the South Shore Line to Gary and South Bend, Indiana. Located under Millennium Park, the terminal was established in the 1800s by the Illinois Central Railroad (IC). It was rebuilt in the early 21st century and is now owned by Metra through its operating arm, the Northeast Illinois Regional Commuter Railroad Corporation. Not counting commuters on the South Shore Line, over 18,000 people board Metra trains at Millennium Station each day. During peak periods, trains leave the terminal as frequently as twice a minute. It is the third-busiest train station in Chicago.\n\nAs Great Central Station, Randolph Street terminal, along with Van Buren Street a few blocks south, was IC's primary downtown Chicago terminal until the completion in 1893 of Central Station (closed 1972) just south of Grant Park at today's Roosevelt Road. It still received many trains thereafter, but was of secondary importance. Its importance increased dramatically in 1926 with the electrification of commuter services on IC's main line and its Blue Island and South Chicago branches. Commuter trains from all three branches were now routed into the Randolph Street terminal, while intercity traffic continued to terminate at Central Station.\n\nOriginally, the station platforms were exposed and the ticketing facilities and the waiting room were located in the attached facility. The construction of Millennium Park gradually placed the entire station \"underground.\" Randolph Street Station existed in a state of perpetual construction from the mid-1980s until 2005: exposed steel girders covered in flame retardant, unpainted plywood walls, bare concrete floors, and dim utility lights created a notoriously unfriendly, cave-like environment. Skidmore, Owings and Merrill was the architect for the station redesign. With the completion of construction in 2005, the station was renamed Millennium Station. However, many longtime Chicago-area residents still call it \"Randolph Street Terminal.\"\n\nCTA\n\nPace\n\nChicaGo Dash\n\nMillennium Station serves as a nexus of several Chicago Pedway connections, which links it to several hotels, residential buildings, office buildings, \"L\" stations and other notable locations. The pedway itself hosts a number of shops, eateries and services. While some portions of the system remain open at all hours, most close by 7:00 PM on weekdays and 6:00 PM on the weekends, rendering a significant portion of the system unusable during non-business hours.\n\n\n\n\n\nIn the 2008 film \"The Dark Knight\", there is a brief shot where the Batpod is driven through Millennium Station's concourse during a chase scene.\n\n"}
{"id": "1906682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906682", "title": "Chris Ward", "text": "Chris Ward\n\nChris Ward may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1906688", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906688", "title": "Classic of Music", "text": "Classic of Music\n\nThe Classic of Music () was a Confucian classic text lost by the time of the Han dynasty. It is sometimes referred to as the \"Sixth Classic\" (for example, by Sima Qian ) and is thought to have been important in the traditional interpretations of the \"Book of Songs\".\n\nQing dynasty scholar Shao Yichen (, 18101861) proposed that the book never existed, but more usually it is thought that all copies were destroyed during the burning of books and burying of scholars.\n\nA few traces remain in other surviving works, including the \"Zuo Zhuan\", the \"Rites of Zhou\", and the extremely redacted, poor-quality Record of Music contained in the \"Classic of Rites\". As accounted in the \"Book of Han\", Dou Gong 竇公 (5-4 cc. BC), a musician of the state of Wei possessed a book \"Yue shu\" which was presented to Han Wen-di. However, the text is associated with the \"Da siyue\" section of the \"Zhou li\" (大宗伯 part). \n\n"}
{"id": "1906695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906695", "title": "Mediterranean recluse spider", "text": "Mediterranean recluse spider\n\nLoxosceles rufescens, the Mediterranean recluse spider, originated in the Mediterranean region as its name implies, but is now found worldwide.\n\nLike other species of the genus \"Loxosceles\", bites from the Mediterranean recluse spider can have dangerous effects, causing skin lesions – a condition known as loxoscelism. Despite co-occurrence with humans for millennia, there is only a single report of a human fatality linked to a bite from this species, a case report from 2016 in which no spider was captured for a confirmed identification, and in which the victim suffered from an autoimmune disorder (myasthenia gravis).\n\nThis species is considered a cosmopolitan \"tramp\" species, with widely-scattered occurrences worldwide, including numerous sightings in the United States, where it is commonly confused with the brown recluse spider (\"Loxosceles reclusa\"); the two species are superficially almost indistinguishable, and misidentifications are common.\n"}
{"id": "1906700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906700", "title": "Valeriana", "text": "Valeriana\n\nValeriana is a genus of flowering plants in the family Caprifoliaceae, members of which may by commonly known as valerians. It contains many species, including the garden valerian, \"Valeriana officinalis\". Some species are native to Europe, others to North America and South America (especially in the Andes).\n\nFossil seeds of \"Valeriana sp,\" among them †\"Valeriana pliocenica\", have been recovered from Late Miocene deposits of southern Ukraine, from Pliocene deposits of south-eastern Belarus and Bashkortostan in central Russia. The fossil seeds are most similar to the extant European \"Valeriana simplicifolia\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1906701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906701", "title": "Paul Revere Braniff", "text": "Paul Revere Braniff\n\nPaul Revere Braniff (August 30, 1897 – June 15, 1954) was an airline entrepreneur. Paul, along with his brother Thomas Elmer Braniff, was one of the original founders of Braniff Airways, Inc. d/b/a Braniff International Airways (after 1948).\n\nPaul Revere Braniff was born in Kansas City, Kansas. He grew up during the early era of aviation, and, as a youngster, became fascinated with the new way of transport. His family moved to Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, in 1900. Paul Revere Braniff met Marie Agnes Maney and they married on April 29, 1920.\n\nMarie Maney was born on May 2, 1898, in El Reno, Oklahoma. She was the daughter of James W. Maney who was an Oklahoma Territory Pioneer. He built thousands of miles of railroads throughout the Western United States. His occupation was Civil Engineer and was President of the Clinton and Western Oklahoma Railroad and founded a chain of grain elevators in the Enid, Oklahoma area. Marie Maney grew up at Maney House in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, that is now a historically protected property. She attended and graduated from schools in Baltimore, Maryland.\n\nMarie Agnes Braniff was highly interested in her husband's work. When he founded Paul R. Braniff, Inc. and then its successor Braniff Airways, Inc., she traveled with him scouting new routes. Mrs. Braniff great love for Paul and his aviation interests led her to compile a very detailed archive on the history of Braniff Airways. She remained highly interested and involved in the preservation of Braniff history even after Paul Braniff's death in 1954.\n\nPaul and his wife Marie settled into a Northwest Oklahoma City home shortly after they married, that Mrs. Braniff lived in until her death on April 29, 1988. After Paul's death in 1954, Mrs. Braniff she worked as a Records Archivist at the Oklahoma State Capital Building. She also worked at the St. Thomas More Book Store also in Oklahoma City. She was active at her church teaching Sunday School at St. Francis Assisi Catholic Church. She was a member of the Legion of Mary at the same church.\n\nPaul and Marie had one child, a son, John Paul Braniff, who was born on October 29, 1927. John Braniff died in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, on February 1, 2013, at the age of 85.\n\nPaul Braniff joined the United States Army during World War I as a mechanic and private on July 6, 1917. He went to France, becoming a corporal, then a temporary sergeant. In France, he learned to shoot, becoming an avid gunman, although he never used this ability other than for warfare.\n\nAfter being honorably discharged from the Army, he joined brother Tom in an insurance company that carried the family's name. Paul Revere, however, kept dreaming about aviation all along and received his pilot's license in 1917. He obtained Transport License Number 690 from Orville Wright. In 1924, Mr. Braniff was able to buy his own aircraft.\n\nPaul Braniff founded his own flying company soon after, eventually helping convince Tom Braniff and other investors to bring money and form the Oklahoma Aero Club, in 1927. Reserved for use of the six investors, the company was registered as the Paul R. Braniff, Inc., thus marking the first birth of Braniff Airways. Paul Revere Braniff flew the company's first flight on June 20, 1928, from Oklahoma City to Tulsa, Oklahoma in a 5-passenger single engine Stinson Detroiter aircraft. Records indicate that there were flights between the two cities prior to the June 20 date. However, company records began recording flights on that date.\n\nCharles Lindbergh's monumental 1927 Atlantic crossing sparked massive interest in aviation around the nation. In Oklahoma, the interest was manifested in the Oklahoma Air Tour of 1928. Sponsored by the Chamber of Commerce of Oklahoma, it involved aviators flying to various Oklahoma town expressing an interest in aviation. The five-day tour, departing Oklahoma City on May 14, 1928, flew eighteen thousand cumulative miles and stopped at eighteen towns. An estimated 100,000 people turned out to view the twenty two aircraft and hear the pilots, that included Paul R. Braniff, promote the benefits of commercial aviation. The Oklahoma cities of Altus, Miami, and Guthrie, built airports specifically for air tour usage. The Tour was operated again in 1929, but the onslaught of the Depression ended any further air races.\n\nAt the time, the \"airline\" was very involved with the \"National Transcontinental\" air race.\n\nIn April, 1929 the company was sold to Aviation Corporation of America or AVCO, the predecessor of American Airlines, Inc.\n\nIn 1929, Paul Revere Braniff left the United States to go to Mexico to help someone build a struggling Mexican airline company (apparently this person was Alberto Braniff, but no evidence of this, nor of Alberto Braniff being related to the American Braniff brothers, has ever been reported). In November of that year, Paul R. Braniff, Inc., had merged with Universal Airlines, to become a real airline company, acquiring that airline's planes and setting up headquarters in St. Louis. In April, 1929 the company was sold to Aviation Corporation of America or AVCO, the predecessor of American Airlines, Inc.\n\nPaul Revere Braniff remained in Mexico until 1930.\n\nWhile in Mexico, he gained airline industry expertise. He returned to the United States with innovative ideas for a new Braniff, including the use of faster aircraft that he knew would help the airline by bringing quicker turn-around times and, as a consequence, enable the airline to carry more passengers.\n\nWith that idea, Paul R. Braniff convinced Tom Braniff and the other four investors to buy two Lockheed Vega aircraft. Braniff Airways, Inc. was formed in November, 1930.\n\nPaul R. Braniff headed to Washington, D.C. in 1934, being called to testify before the congress, which was heading an investigation against air mail services. Paul R. Braniff returned to St. Louis with a contract for Braniff Airlines to carry mail, the first time the airline had obtained an airmail contract.\n\nPaul R. Braniff then set on exploring new markets for the company that bore his last name. In 1936, Mr. Braniff headed to Brazil, and he returned to St. Louis convinced that Braniff would do great economically if established in South America. The carrier was awarded a 7719-mile route from the Mainland US to far South America in 1946 with service beginning in 1948. Braniff Airways, Inc. began doing business as Braniff International Airways with the beginning of South America service.\n\nPaul Braniff had been running the day-to-day operations of the airline but decided to leave the carrier in 1935. Mr. Braniff was replaced by Charles Edmund Beard who would eventually become the President of Braniff Airways in 1954.\n\nIntending to retire from aviation, Paul Braniff sold the airline to his brother Tom. It was after Paul Revere Braniff left that Braniff International Airways became a major player in United States-South America travel and vice versa, as Braniff International Airways began daily flights to various points in that continent and to Europe after the jet era began, with their distinctive livery that included many colors not seen before on aircraft fuselages.\n\nPaul Revere Braniff went to Oklahoma to try to work as a mechanic, and he established the \"Braniff Engineering Corporation\". That company was the first one to introduce the Lennox Air Conditioners and heating systems in Oklahoma.\n\nThen 44 years old, Paul R. Braniff was re-called into military service as the United States entered World War II, in 1941. Paul Revere Braniff would fly aircraft, this time with the Army's ninth air troop carrier command, in England. But, after his second service in the military was over, so was his flying career.\n\nHe later worked as an advisor for the Douglas Company in Los Angeles. He decided to move to Oklahoma, where he worked another aviation-related company as salesman, selling used aircraft parts to customers.\n\nPaul Revere Braniff was diagnosed with cancer later in his life, and he went on to spend his last couple of years relatively inactive. Expected to survive his cancer, Mr. Braniff suffered a cold in the summer of 1954, which later turned into a pneumonia. He had surgery to correct the pneumonia, but the surgery aggravated his cancer disease, He died on June 15, 1954, from complications of cancer that his doctors stated was directly connected with his pneumonia and resulting surgery.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1906714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906714", "title": "Paul Braniff", "text": "Paul Braniff\n\nPaul Braniff may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1906719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906719", "title": "Inula", "text": "Inula\n\nInula is a large genus of about 90 species of flowering plants in the family Asteraceae, native to Europe, Asia and Africa.\n\nThey may be annuals, herbaceous perennials or subshrubs that vary greatly in size, from small species a few centimeters tall to enormous perennials over tall. They carry yellow daisy-like composite flowerheads often with narrow ray-florets.\n\nSome common characteristics include pappus with bristles, flat capitulum, and lack of chaff.\n\nSeveral species are popular flowers for the garden, with cultivation going back to antiquity. The name \"Inula\" was already used by the Romans and derived from Helen of Troy fame. The smaller species are used in rock gardens and the more common larger ones, which tend to have very coarse foliage, in borders.\n\n\n\"Inula\" species are used as food plants by the larvae of some Lepidoptera species including case-bearers of the genus \"Coleophora\", such as \"C. conyzae\" (recorded on \"I. conyzae\"), \"C. follicularis\", \"C. inulae\", and \"C. troglodytella\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1906720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906720", "title": "Wochenend und Sonnenschein", "text": "Wochenend und Sonnenschein\n\n\"Wochenend und Sonnenschein\" (\"Weekend and Sunshine\") is a song with German lyrics that was copyrighted in 1930 by (lyrics) and Milton Ager (music). The music is based on the famed American song \"Happy Days Are Here Again\" that was copyrighted in 1929 by Ager and Jack Yellen (English lyrics). The German lyrics are very different in spirit from the English ones:\n\n<poem>\nTief im Wald nur ich und du,\nder Herrgott drückt ein Auge zu,\ndenn er schenkt uns ja zum Glücklichsein\nWochenend und Sonnenschein.\n</poem>\n\nwhich translates roughly as:\n\n<poem>\nOnly you and me, deep in the woods\nThe lord above turns a blind eye,\nFor he grants us for being happy\nWeekend and sunshine.\n</poem>\n\n\"\"Wochenend und Sonnenschein\"\" was first performed by the popular German sextet, the Comedian Harmonists, who recorded the song on 22 August 1930 on 78 rpm gramophone record. The recording is available on CD.\n\n"}
{"id": "1906722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906722", "title": "Chinijo Archipelago", "text": "Chinijo Archipelago\n\nThe Chinijo Archipelago () is a small archipelago located in the northeastern part of the Canary Islands, north of the island of Lanzarote. The archipelago includes the islets of Montaña Clara, Alegranza, La Graciosa, Roque del Este and Roque del Oeste. The archipelago is administered by Lanzarote and belongs to the municipality of Teguise. La Graciosa is the only inhabited island, with a population of around 700.\n\nThe name of the archipelago is a reference to its reduced dimensions as the word \"chinijo\" is a local colloquial adjective used to describe something small.\n\nThe archipelago is part of the natural park \"Parque natural del Archipiélago Chinijo\", designated in 1986. The natural park, total area , also includes part of the rocky north coast of the island Lanzarote (\"los riscos de Famara\"). The area of the natural park overlaps with that of a separately designated marine reserve. The European Union designated a Special Protection Area for birds in 1994.\n\n \n"}
{"id": "1906732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906732", "title": "Villedieu-les-Poêles", "text": "Villedieu-les-Poêles\n\nVilledieu-les-Poêles is a former commune in the Manche department in Normandy in north-western France. On 1 January 2016, it was merged into the new commune of Villedieu-les-Poêles-Rouffigny.\n\nIts inhabitants are called \"Sourdins\" from the French \"sourd\" meaning deaf. Most of the people involved in the manufacturing of copper pans, which involved repeated hammering, became deaf.\n\nPont-Farcy lies to the east, Saint-Lô to the north, Vire to the South-East and Granville to the west.\n\nIt is traditionally a centre of metal-work, especially the brass and copper pans and basins from which the \"poêles\" in its name derives. It is also famous for its artisanal manufacture of large church bells, which was started by immigrants from Lorraine around 1780.\n\nIn addition to metal-work, current industries are a slaughterhouse and a cheese factory. Tourism now plays a large part in the local economy. Villedieu also provides services for the surrounding countryside, such as a hospital and a retirement home.\n\nVilledieu owes its name to the religious order Knights Hospitaller, that later became the Knights of Malta. Henry I, King of England and Duke of Normandy, granted Villedieu to this order in the 12th century. Low taxes and good administration attracted people to Villedieu. Advanced coppersmithing technology was presumably imported from the Middle East by the Knights. By the early 14th century, the Corporation of the Coppersmiths of Villedieu was officially recognized by the Kings of France.\n\nIn the years following the French Revolution, in the late 18th century, the people of Villedieu were strong supporters of the Revolution, unlike most of people in the surrounding area. A major reason of their support is that the Revolution abolished customs duties between French regions; before the Revolution, copper pans exported from Villedieu to Brittany, away, faced higher import duties than copper pans from Portugal. After a losing battle with Chouan troops, the men from Villedieu escaped thanks to their women who threw stones, flowerpots and chamber pots from second-story windows at the pursuing Chouans. The general heading the Chouan troops was getting ready to bombard Villedieu and set it on fire. A delegation of women negotiated with him: the inhabitants were given a short time to hide their valuables and the Chouan soldiers then plundered the town for food and clothing.\n\nIn 1944, when the Germans withdrew from Villedieu, they left a sniper who shot some of the first US soldiers to enter Villedieu, before being neutralized. The US commander was about to request airplane bombing runs when the mayor approached him, told him that there were no Germans left in Villedieu and offered to ride through Villedieu in the front seat of a US jeep. Villedieu was thus one of the few towns in the region to escape major destruction.\n\n"}
{"id": "1906737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906737", "title": "Municipal Auditorium (Kansas City, Missouri)", "text": "Municipal Auditorium (Kansas City, Missouri)\n\nMunicipal Auditorium is a multi-purpose facility located in Kansas City, Missouri. It opened in 1936 and features Streamline Moderne and Art Deco architecture and architectural details.\n\nMunicipal Auditorium was the first building built as part of the \"Ten-Year Plan\", a bond program that passed by a 4 to 1 margin in 1931. The campaign was run by the Civic Improvement Committee chaired by Conrad H. Mann. Other buildings in the plan included the Kansas City City Hall and the Kansas City branch of the Jackson County Courthouse. The plan was championed by most local politicians including Thomas Pendergast and provided Pendergast with many patronage opportunities during the Great Depression.\n\nMunicipal Auditorium replaced Convention Hall which was directly across the street and was torn down for parking to create what is now called the Barney Allis Plaza.\n\nThe streamline moderne architecture was designed by the lead architectural firm of Alonzo H. Gentry, Voskamp & Neville. Gentry later completed the design of the Harry S. Truman Presidential Library and Museum after the death of the original architect, Edward F. Neild. Homer F. Neville was the lead designer for Municipal Auditorium.\n\nHoit, Price & Barnes, the associated architects were responsible for the design of the mechanical work (HVAC, electrical, plumbing). William L. Cassell directed that design effort. Cassell went on to start his own firm in 1933 which is still in business as W. L. Cassell & Associates, Inc.\n\nHenry F. McElroy, the choice of Tom Pendergast and other Democratic leaders to be City Manager, announced on January 5, 1932, that the architectural services for Municipal Auditorium would be divided between the firm of Gentry, Voskamp & Neville and the firm of Hoit, Price & Barnes. In addition, Gentry's firm would take the lead. The decision was controversial and led to lengthy contract negotiations. Gentry's firm was much smaller, while Hoit, Price & Barnes were known for their work in designing the Kansas City Power and Light Building, an Art Deco skyscraper completed in 1931; the 32-story Fidelity Bank Building at 909 Walnut; Corinthian Hall; and many more Kansas City buildings and residences. Municipal Auditorium, however, was a public project and Gentry, whose father had been a prominent Democratic politician in Independence, was the preference of the Pendergast machine. According to Neville, there was little interference with the building's design.\n\nWhen the building opened in 1935, the Architectural Record called it \"one of the 10 best buildings of the world that year\". In 2000, the Princeton Architectural Press called it one of the 500 most important architectural works in the United States.\n\nMunicipal Auditorium is connected to the H. Roe Bartle Convention Center via skywalks over 14th and Central streets. An underground walkway through a public parking garage provides access to the Kansas City Marriott Downtown, and the Holiday Inn Aladdin Hotel.\n\nThe Arena, nicknamed \"Municipal\", has hosted the Mid-America Intercollegiate Athletics Association tournament annually, each March since 2003. When Kansas City hosts the Big 12 Conference tournament, women's games take place here. It is currently home to the NAIA Men's Division I Basketball National Tournament. It was played here from 1937 to 1974, when it moved into Kemper Arena, and has been home since the Tournament moved back to Kansas City from Tulsa in 2002.\n\nThe arena hosted three of the first four Final Fours, and hosted its last NCAA tournament game in 1964. In 2013, the University of Dayton Arena passed Municipal Auditorium in number of games hosted as that arena hosts the opening round games of the NCAA tournament.\n\nThe 19,500-seat Kemper Arena was built in 1974 to accommodate Kansas City's professional basketball teams that had been playing at the Auditorium. The Kansas City Kings (known at the time as the Kansas City-Omaha Kings) played their first two seasons at the Auditorium, then returned for the majority of the 1979–80 season after the roof of Kemper Arena caved in on June 4, 1979.\n\nOn November 13, 1979, Darryl Dawkins of the Philadelphia 76ers completely shattered backboard during a game vs. the Kings with a thunderous slam dunk.\n\nIt is home to the University of Missouri–Kansas City Kangaroos basketball team. Since January 2009, it has been the home of the Kansas City Roller Warriors roller derby league.\n\nThe 2013 $5 million renovation included new video boards, LED scorer's table, sound system, lighting, electrical upgrades, and lower level seating.\n\nThe Kansas City Music Hall is a large proscenium theatre with a striking Streamline Modern interior that seats an audience of 2,400 patrons. The hall presents touring Broadway shows, as well as visiting symphony orchestras, opera and ballet companies, and other events. It was the main hall of the Kansas City Philharmonic for several decades. It's also the home of the 1927 Robert-Morton Theatre Pipe Organ that originally was in the Midland Theatre. The organ is owned and maintained by Kansas City Theatre Pipe Organ, Inc.\n\nThe Little Theatre is an elegant octagonal ballroom with a capacity for 400, or banquet seating for 225 available for catered events, and a private balcony room for up to 36 guests.\n\n"}
{"id": "1906742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906742", "title": "Carlos Thays", "text": "Carlos Thays\n\nCarlos Thays (August 20, 1849 – January 31, 1934) was a French-Argentine landscape architect, and a student of French landscape architect Édouard André.\n\nBorn Jules Charles Thays in Paris, France in 1849, Carlos Thays arrived in Argentina in 1889, after he was recommended by Jean Alphand to Argentine pioneer Miguel Crisol, who contracted Thays to design Sarmiento Park in Córdoba. During his time in Córdoba Thays became infatuated with the young country and decided to spend the rest of his life in Argentina. After moving to Buenos Aires he was named the city's Director of Parks & Walkways in 1891. This position gave him significant influence over the design of the city's open spaces, and his legacy is still strongly felt in the city's open spaces today.\n\nMajor projects included tree planting along streets, remodeling and designing public plazas and walkways as well as designing completely new parks and expanding older ones. Major parks and plazas that particularly show Thays influence on Buenos Aires include the parks Centenario, Lezama, Patricios, Barrancas de Belgrano and the plazas Constitución, Congreso, and Mayo. Thays' French heritage is reflected in many of his designs, in so far that Buenos Aires' parks and plazas are often compared to similar designs in Paris.\n\nOne of Thays' largest undertakings was the Parque Tres de Febrero, a sweeping area of open land covering several square kilometers filled with thousands of trees, flowers, many fountains, and monuments in the \"barrio\" of Palermo.\n\nA pet project of his was the Buenos Aires Botanical Garden, for which he petitioned the city government to set aside land (almost 8 hectares), which he designed in sections to display plants organised by continent, with a large section devoted to the native plants of Argentina, which were ignored in garden-making at the time. The garden has the first \"Ginkgo biloba\" planted in Argentina. Completed in 1898, it bears his name, the \"Jardín Botánico Carlos Thays de la Ciudad Autónoma de Buenos Aires\". One greenhouse, was first erected at the Paris Exposition of 1889 and brought in sections from France to be reassembled, one of five in the garden. A brick house in the English Gothic Revival style, in which he lived during the construction and planting of the garden, now houses the herbarium and a small botanical library.\n\nWhile Thays worked primarily in Buenos Aires throughout the years he also worked on many civic projects in other areas of Argentina, remodeling the Parque Sarmiento), Córdoba, designing the Parque Urquiza in Parana, Entre Rios, Parque 9 de Julio in San Miguel de Tucumán, the Parque de la Independencia in Rosario, and the Parque San Martin in Mendoza. Thays also designed the grounds of the luxurious Club Hotel de la Ventana, near Sierra de La Ventana in Buenos Aires Province. Work outside Argentina included the urban planning of the residential neighborhood of Carrasco, aid in the planning of the Parque Rodó, and the design of the Plaza Cagancha and Plaza Independencia in Montevideo, Uruguay.\n\nThays worked most extensively in Buenos Aires precisely at a period in the city's history where it was growing extremely fast as a result of immigration, especially from Spain and Italy. It is often noted that had Thays not insisted on high standards of design and frequent open spaces, many of the city's current open spaces would probably not exist.\n\nNext to the Perito Francisco Moreno and other prominent figures founded July 4, 1912 Boy Scouts Association of Argentina.\n\nThays died in Buenos Aires in 1934.\n"}
{"id": "1906754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906754", "title": "Marlin Jackson", "text": "Marlin Jackson\n\nMarlin Tyrell Jackson (born June 30, 1983) is a former American football player who last played for the Philadelphia Eagles of the National Football League. He played college football for the University of Michigan, and was recognized as a consensus All-American. The Indianapolis Colts selected him in the first round of the 2005 NFL Draft. Jackson won Super Bowl XLI with the Colts against the Chicago Bears.\n\nJackson was born in Sharon, Pennsylvania. He attended Sharon High School, and played for the Sharon Tigers high school football team. During his high school career, he compiled 281 career tackles, nineteen tackles for losses, three quarterback sacks, seven forced fumbles, three recovered fumbles and eighteen interceptions, including four touchdown returns. On offense, was he rushed for 330 five touchdowns in fifteen attempts, and caught fifty-seven passes for 1,026 yards and eighteen touchdowns. Jackson earned all-state honors, was the Pennsylvania high school player of the year and picked for the \"USA Today\" and Prep Football Report All-American teams. He played in the first-ever U.S. Army All-American Bowl game on December 30, 2000.\n\nJackson attended the University of Michigan, where he played for coach Lloyd Carr's Michigan Wolverines football team from 2001 to 2004. As senior team captain in 2004, he was a first-team All-Big Ten selection, and a consensus first-team All-American, having received first-team honors from the Associated Press, American Football Coaches Association, Football Writers Association of American, \"The Sporting News\", and ESPN.\n\nJackson finished his career as the second all-time leader among Michigan players in pass breakups. During his senior year, opposing coaches and quarterbacks, concerned at Jackson's interception and pass break-up ability, threw less than fourteen percent of their passes in his direction.\n\nJackson was selected by the Indianapolis Colts with the 29th overall pick of the 2005 NFL Draft. As an NFL rookie he had 52 tackles and one interception. Marlin played mostly in passing situations with one start in 15 games. In his second season, he had 82 tackles and 1 interception. He started at safety in place of the injured Bob Sanders. Marlin's career high was a 14 tackle performance against the Houston Texans.\n\nOn January 21, 2007, Jackson intercepted New England Patriots quarterback Tom Brady with 18 seconds left in the fourth quarter of the AFC Championship Game to seal the Colts' 38-34 victory and send them to Super Bowl XLI against the Chicago Bears, which they subsequently won.\n\nOn October 30, 2008, Jackson injured his knee during practice. Marlin had surgery to repair the damage and missed the remainder of the 2008 season. Yahoo! Sports delivered an update on his status on June 25 saying that he \"looks to be making strong progress from midseason knee surgery.\"\n\nOn March 5, 2010, Jackson was declared a free agent after he was non-tendered by the Colts.\n\nJackson was signed to a two-year, $6 million contract with the Philadelphia Eagles on March 10, 2010. There, he would be converted from cornerback to free safety.\n\nJackson suffered a right Achilles tendon rupture in a mini-camp practice on June 1. He was placed on the injured reserve list on June 10.\n\nJackson was released on September 3, 2011, during final roster cuts.\n\nKey\n\nHis older brother Elmarko Jackson was a running back for Temple University. He was involved in an incident which made headlines in 2000 when he was stabbed several times on campus after an argument with another student.\n\nJackson was charged with felonious assault in the summer of 2003. A 26-year-old man accused Jackson of striking him in the right eye with a bottle on June 1, requiring 17 stitches, in Ann Arbor, Michigan.\n\nOn February 19, 2009, Jackson won the civil lawsuit regarding this incident. Not only did the jury find Jackson not liable for any damages, they rejected the claim that he attacked the plaintiff with a bottle, found the plaintiff liable for defamation and malicious prosecution, and awarded Jackson $225,000 in damages.\n\n"}
{"id": "1906770", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906770", "title": "Leontopodium", "text": "Leontopodium\n\nLeontopodium is a genus of plants in the family Asteraceae (which also includes daisies and sunflowers). The genus is native to Europe and Asia. The fuzzy and somewhat stocky \"petals\" (technically, bracts) could be thought of as somewhat resembling lions' paws—hence the genus name combining \"léōn\" (lion) and \"pódion\" (foot).\n\nThe genus includes the edelweiss (\"L. nivale\"), a well-known plant from the mountains of Europe. The term edelweiss can, more rarely, refer to other members of the genus.\n\nThe following species are currently recognized:\n\"Leontopodium nivale\", the edelweiss, has been regarded as a national symbol of Austria, worn as a cap emblem by Austrian troops and displayed on Austrian coins. A song about the plant, written by Oscar Hammerstein, was featured in the musical production \"The Sound of Music\".\n"}
{"id": "1906787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906787", "title": "Senior prank", "text": "Senior prank\n\nA senior prank is a type of organized prank pulled by the senior class of a school, college, or university to cause chaos throughout the institution. The pranks are usually carried out at the end of the senior school year as a going away mark on the school, and in some cases have become something of a tradition. This is known as muck-up day in Australia and the United Kingdom.\n\nThe pranks are often planned out very well before they are actually done in order to work out details such as not being caught or blamed for the disruption they cause. Often these are harmless and more often hilarious pranks, but sometimes the pranks can be taken too far, causing serious problems such as damage to school property and resulting in arrests and large fines.\n\nThe practice has been banned within some schools in the United States, and replaced with formal leaving activities to ensure students do not commit crimes or vandalise school or other property.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, \"muck-up days\" are common in independent schools and state schools, and members of staff (particularly grounds staff and porters) often unofficially assist the perpetrators. Examples of such traditions include stealing the school's clocks as makeshift trophies or removing styluses for interactive whiteboards.\n\nIn Australia, muck-up days are a common practice in many schools, although their nature has evolved over the years such that activities are usually pre-approved by staff (e.g., a year coordinator) and may not harm staff, students or property. Notable pranks have been dyeing the swimming pool purple and bringing pigs to school. \n\nCommon senior pranks include but are not limited to: adopting unusual or fancy dress, using water pistols, stink bombs, water bombs or shaving cream on each other or on teachers, issuing fake announcements over the public address system, starting barbecues in unusual places, imposing parking levies on the staff car park, issuing staff with detentions or uniform infringements, putting small polystyrene balls in the air conditioning, thus making it 'snow' in the building, chalk graffiti, filling elevators with hay or spreading bird seed in the staff parking lot to attract birds that then deconstruct the cars, setting up tents and making it appear that the seniors had camped overnight on school grounds, or having a party in a faculty/underclassmen parking lot to confuse the parking situation. At some schools that ordinarily have strict uniform policies, teachers turn up in full school uniform on the day, and the students in free dress. Some schools announce a day off for the rest of the school, while others conduct an assembly to formally farewell the final-year students during the day's events.\n\nIncidents such as graffiti, vandalism or harming other students are dealt with in a number of ways, as the students despite finishing school have not yet graduated and, in the case of students enrolled in academic subjects, have yet to sit their exams. In extreme cases, or those involving non-students who turn up on the day, the police may be called. At Scotch College in Perth, the Year 12 boys' valedictory dinner was cancelled by the school after some students vandalised and ran partially naked through two nearby girls' schools.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1906791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906791", "title": "Douglas Nicholls", "text": "Douglas Nicholls\n\nSir Douglas Ralph Nicholls, (9 December 1906 – 4 June 1988) was a prominent Aboriginal Australian from the Yorta Yorta people. He was a professional athlete, Churches of Christ pastor and church planter, ceremonial officer and a pioneering campaigner for reconciliation.\n\nNicholls was the first Aboriginal Australian to be knighted when he was appointed Knight Bachelor in 1972 (he was subsequently appointed a Knight Commander of the Royal Victorian Order in 1977). He was also the first — and to date the only — Indigenous Australian to be appointed to vice-regal office, serving as Governor of South Australia from 1 December 1976 until his resignation on 30 April 1977 due to poor health.\n\nNicholls was born on 9 December 1906 on the Cummeragunja Reserve in New South Wales. He was the youngest of five children born to Herbert Nicholls and Florence Atkinson. His paternal grandfather was Aaron Atkinson, who was the brother of William Cooper.\n\nSchooling at Nicholls's mission was provided to Grade 3 standard and strict religious principles were emphasised. When he was eight, he saw his 16-year-old sister Hilda forcibly taken from his family by the police and taken to the Cootamundra Domestic Training Home for Aboriginal Girls where she was trained to become a domestic servant.\n\nAt 13 Nicholls worked with his uncle as a tar boy and general hand on sheep stations, and he lived with the shearers. He worked hard and had a cheerful disposition. This annoyed one of the shearers so much that he challenged Nicholls to a fight, with the loser to hand over one week's pay (30 shillings – $3). After six rounds the shearer who challenged him conceded defeat.\n\nNicholls played Australian rules football. After playing in the Goulburn Valley for Tongala, Nicholls tried out for VFL clubs and before the 1927 season; Nicholls played some seconds matches for Carlton but did not play a senior game. He subsequently joined the Northcote Football Club in the VFA, and became a regular in the Northcote team by 1929. He made his name as an energetic and speedy wingman, capable of spectacular feats, and came to be regarded as the best wingman in the VFA at the time. At 5'2\", he was one of the shortest players in the game. He was a member of Northcote's 1929 premiership team, and finished third in the Recorder Cup voting in 1931, his final season with Northcote.\n\nIn 1932, Nicholls joined the VFL's Fitzroy Football Club and in 1935, he was the first Aboriginal player to be selected to play for the Victorian interstate team, ultimately playing four interstate games. He played a total of six seasons for Fitzroy, before returning to Northcote in 1938. Knee injuries forced him to retire in 1939. He returned to Northcote as non-playing coach in 1947.\n\nDuring his career, particularly in the early years, Nicholls was subjected to onfield taunts or ostracised by his team-mates due to his colour. Nevertheless, he became a popular player among spectators; and, upon joining Fitzroy, when he was initially sitting by himself in the change rooms (due to this ostracism), he was befriended by Haydn Bunton, Sr. who ensured he was made welcome within the team.\n\nLike his close relative Lynch Cooper, Nicholls was also a very capable sprinter. He competed in gift races around Victoria during the athletics seasons, and in 1928 he won both the Nyah and Warracknabeal Gifts. Following this, the race organisers paid him an appearance fee, board and expenses to enter races. He was the inaugural chairman of the National Aboriginal Sports Foundation.\n\nPlaying football provided employment during the winter. To earn a living during the rest of the year, he boxed with Jimmy Sharman's Boxing Troupe, a travelling sideshow in which Sharman offered his fighters for challenge against all comers.\n\nDuring World War II, Nicholls was an adept boomerang thrower, teaching that skill to some members of the United States military. There is a photograph depicting this in the Australian War Memorial archives. He also organised and captained Aboriginal teams in football matches used for patriotic fundraisers during the war, many of which were played against Northcote.\n\nWilliam Cooper, an uncle to Nicholls, mentored him in leadership, eventually placing him as the secretary of the Australian Aborigines' League. It was a founding principle of the League that Aboriginal Affairs was made a Federal matter, which would require a change in the Constitution of Australia, which could only be effected by a referendum. As early as February 1935 Cooper, Nicholls and others were lobbying Members of Parliament, such as Thomas Paterson, the Commonwealth minister for the interior on this issue. It gained national attention when Nicholls, leveraging his profile as a nationally famous athlete, participated in the Day of Mourning protest for Aborigines held in Sydney on 26 January 1938, where Indigenous leaders from across the country made the demand to change the Constitution. The proposed resolution was: WE, representing THE ABORIGINES OF AUSTRALIA, assembled in conference at the Australian Hall, Sydney, on the 26th day of January, 1938, this being the 150th Anniversary of the Whiteman's seizure of our country, HEREBY MAKE PROTEST against the callous treatment of our people by the whitemen during the past 150 years, AND WE APPEAL to the Australian nation of today to make new laws for the education and care of Aborigines, we ask for a new policy which will raise our people TO FULL CITIZEN STATUS and EQUALITY WITHIN THE COMMUNITY. Doug Nicholls rose to support the resolution on behalf of the Victorian Aborigines League that day, saying: On behalf of Victorian Aborigines I want to say that we support this resolution in every way. The public does not realise what our people have suffered for 150 years. Aboriginal girls have been sent to Aboriginal Reserves and have not been given any opportunity to improve themselves. Their treatment has been disgusting. The white people have done nothing for us whatever. Put on Reserves, with no proper education, how can Aborigines take their place as equals with whites? Now is our chance to have things altered. We must fight our very hardest in this cause. After 150 years our people are still bossed and influenced by white people. I know that we could proudly hold our own with others if given the chance. Do not let us forget, also, those of our own people who are still in a primitive state. It is for them that we should try to do something. We should all work in co-operation for the progress of Aborigines throughout the Commonwealth.\n\nThe movement took 30 years to coalesce and achieve anything like its stated goal, but it soon made its focus the Constitution of Australia which, in its original form, prevented the Commonwealth from making any law that would benefit the Aboriginal people. In 1949, a letter written by Nicholls prompted the Labor MP, Kim Beazley Sr. to write to Prime Minister Ben Chifley asking him to explore how the Constitution could be amended. In 1957, Jessie Street approached Nicholls about bringing in the Victorian Aboriginal Advancement League to form a federal council to campaign for Aboriginal affairs to become a federal matter — this would became the Federal Council for the Advancement of Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders. Its early work involved drafting and collecting petitions, from suburbs and town centres from across the country. By 1962 they had achieved 100,000 signatures with the stated goal of 250,000 signatures. The movement supporting a change to the constitution, which removed the block on the Federal Government making a laws regarding Aboriginal people, soon became known as the \"yes\" campaign. \n\nFCAATSI would later became the central lobby group who were able to interface with the Federal Government. During this time Pastor Doug was known to have met and negotiated with Prime Ministers Robert Menzies and Harold Holt. However, creating the political momentum involved substantial grass roots action. Nicholls' daughter, Pam recalls her father winning support from white Australians at football games: “With his friend Alick Jackomos, they used to have a card table and go and sit outside the football giving out papers, giving speeches, beckoning people to come sign the petitions for the ‘yes’ vote.\"Nicholls interacted with the media frequently. Drawing on his abilities as a preacher, he was able to deliver pithy, persuasive messages which were effective in winning over the Australian public. One common line of argument he made was for the \"Yes\" vote was:“I think it’s a matter of democratic right. And we will form a part of the British commonwealth of nations and there should be no legislation setup to discriminate us.The 1967 Australian referendum was an emphatic success for Nicholls and the FCAATSI leadership, with an average of 90% of Australians supporting the change they had asked for. Following the successful outcome of the referendum, Pastor Doug argued that much more than a legal change had been made, rather, it was:… evidence that Australians recognise Aborigines are part of the nation.\n\nNicholls was a minister and social worker with Aboriginal people. Following his mother's death he took a renewed interest in Christianity and was baptised at Northcote Church of Christ (now Northern Community Church of Christ) in 1935. He officiated at church and hymn services as a lay preacher at the Gore Street Mission Centre in Fitzroy.\n\nIn 1941 Nicholls received his call-up notice and he joined the 29th Battalion but, in 1942, at the request of the Fitzroy police, he was released from his unit to work as a social worker in the Fitzroy Aboriginal community. He cared for those trapped in alcohol abuse, gambling, and other social problems, and those who were in trouble with the police. Indigenous people gathered to him and eventually the group was so large that he became the pastor of the first Aboriginal Church of Christ in Australia. In recognition of the ministry he was already expressing, he was ordained as a minister.\n\nIn a letter to the editor, in 1953, it was noted that Opposition Leader, H. V. Evatt, had asked the Prime Minister Robert Menzies, on 26 February, in Federal Parliament, 'for an invitation to be extended to Capt. Reg Saunders or some other outstanding representative of the aborigines' to be included in the official Australian contingent to the coronation of Elizabeth II. The author suggested Nicholls, as an ordained minister, and for his community work in the areas of Fitzroy and Mooroopna.\n\nIn 1957 Nicholls became a field officer for the Aborigines Advancement League. He edited their magazine, \"Smoke Signals\", and helped draw Aboriginal issues to the attention of Government officials and the general public. He pleaded for dignity for Aboriginal people as human beings. Support for the AAL grew rapidly.\n\nNicholls helped set up hostels for Aboriginal children, holiday homes for Aboriginal people at Queenscliff and was a founding member and Victorian Secretary of the Federal Council for the Advancement of Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders (FCAATSI). In response to protests in the 1950s and 60s for an independent, Aboriginal-run farming cooperative at Lake Tyers Mission he campaigned on their behalf, but when the board moved to close Lake Tyers, Nichols resigned his position in protest.\n\nNicholls was an active Freemason.\n\nNicholls was appointed Governor of South Australia on 1 December 1976, on the nomination of Premier Don Dunstan. He was the first non-white person to serve as the governor of an Australian state, and is the only Aboriginal person to have held viceregal office. Because of his race, his nomination proved controversial and attracted more attention than most viceregal appointments. A poll by ABC's \"This Day Tonight\" found that 70 percent of respondents opposed Nicholls becoming governor. \"The Canberra Times\" expressed concern that members of his family might set up camp on the grounds of Government House. However, Adelaide's main daily newspaper \"The Advertiser\" was more positive, welcoming the news \"without reservation\". News of the appointment was leaked in May 1976, after which he agreed to appear on \"A Current Affair\". Nicholls took exception to a question directed at his wife, calling the interviewer a racist and requiring him to leave his house. GTV-9 aired the footage without his permission, and subsequently apologised for doing so.\n\nNicholls' predecessor as governor, nuclear physicist Mark Oliphant, confidentially wrote to the state government expressing concerns about the appointment. He said there were \"grave dangers\" involved, as \"there is something inherent in the personality of the Aborigine which makes it difficult for him to adapt fully to the ways of the white man\".\n\nOn 25 January 1977, Nicholls suffered a stroke and was admitted to the cardiac ward at Royal Adelaide Hospital. He had a history of high blood pressure and had suffered a mild heart attack some years earlier. He was not discharged until three weeks later, with Lieutenant-Governor Walter Crocker serving as Administrator of the Government in his place. Nicholls attended only one further official engagement after his stroke, hosting Queen Elizabeth II at Government House on 20 March. She subsequently awarded him a second knighthood, Knight Commander of the Royal Victorian Order (KCVO). Nicholls' retirement due to ill health was announced on 22 April, with effect from 30 April. He held office for only 150 days, making him the shortest-serving governor in South Australian history and the only governor to serve for less than a year.\n\nIn December 1942 Nicholls married Gladys Nicholls, the widow of his brother Howard Nicholls (1905–1942); Howard (who had married Gladys in 1927) had died in April 1942 as a result of injuries sustained in a car accident. Gladys already had three children. Douglas Nicholls and Gladys were married for 39 years and raised their combined six children; two sons, Bevan and Ralph, and four daughters, Beryl, Nora, Lilian and Pamela. Lady Gladys Nicholls died in 1981.\n\nNicholls' great grandson Nathan Lovett-Murray also played Australian Rules Football, playing 145 games for Essendon.\n\n\nNicholls died on 4 June 1988 at Mooroopna. A state funeral was held for him and he was buried in the cemetery at Cummeragunja.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1906796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906796", "title": "Yves Rocard", "text": "Yves Rocard\n\nYves-André Rocard (22 May 1903, Vannes – 16 March 1992, Paris) was a French physicist who helped develop the atomic bomb for France.\n\nAfter obtaining a double doctorate in mathematics (1927) and physics (1928) he was awarded the professorship in electronic physics at the École normale supérieure in Paris.\n\nAs a member of a Resistance group during the Second World War he flew to the UK in a small plane as part of a dangerous mission, and was able to provide British intelligence with invaluable information. There he met up with Charles de Gaulle who named him Director of Research in the Forces navales françaises libres (the Navy of Free France). He became particularly interested in the detection of solar radio emissions by British Radar, which were causing military problems by jamming detection during periods of high emission, and was able to create a new radio navigational beam station.\n\nAs research director, Rocard followed the French troops entering Germany. He succeeded in finding German specialists, e.g. in infrared and wireless Pathfinding and engaged them to serve in France. As for the group of nuclear physicists around Werner Heisenberg and Otto Hahn he did not succeed because Samuel Abraham Goudsmit arrived at Hechingen earlier. At Freiburg (then also French zone) Rocard protected the solar observatory and founded a French navy-owned ionospheric prediction service with Karl Rawer as scientific director.\n\nReturned to France after the war Rocard he took up his function as head of the physics department at the ENS. Whilst there he founded a radio observatory, having obtained two German \"Wurzburg\" Radar mirrors from the war.\n\nFrom 1947 he became scientific advisor to the French military on the subject of atomic energy, eventually taking over from Frédéric Joliot-Curie after his dismissal. In 1951, he became scientific head of the programme that eventually led to the development of nuclear arms, and is often known as the father of the French A-Bomb and H-bomb.\n\nLater in his career, he studied subjects ranging from semiconductors to seismology. Eventually, his professional reputation became tarnished by his increased research in less conventional subjects such as biomagnetism, dowsing and UFOs.\n\nHe was awarded the British CBE (1946), and the French Legion of Honour and Order of Merit.\n\nHe is the father of Michel Rocard, prime minister of France between 1988 and 1991.\n\nOn his death in 1992, Yves Rocard was interred in the Cimetière du Montparnasse in Paris.\n\n"}
{"id": "1906799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906799", "title": "Jean-Marc Mormeck", "text": "Jean-Marc Mormeck\n\nJean-Marc Gilbert Mormeck (born 3 June 1972) is a French former professional boxer who competed from 1995 to 2014. He is a two-time unified world cruiserweight champion, having held the WBA, WBC and \"The Ring\" world titles twice between 2005 and 2007. He was the first boxer to hold unified cruiserweight title since Evander Holyfield in 1988, and the first fighter to hold \"The Ring\" cruiserweight title since Carlos De León in 1987. Mormeck also challenged for the unified world heavyweight title in 2012. As of April 2020, BoxRec rates him the third greatest cruiserweight of all time.\n\nMormeck was born in Pointe-à-Pitre, Guadeloupe as an only child to Fulbert and Sonia Mormeck. When he was 6, he and his family moved to Paris, France where he still lives. Mormeck engaged himself in football and Muay Thai as an amateur. After watching some boxing matches on television, he became inspired to excel in it.\n\nHe fought as an amateur in 1990 and turned professional in 1995. Early in his career, Mormeck lost 2 minor four-round bouts on points but kept winning for years afterwards. On 10 November 1998, Mormeck won the French light heavyweight title with a unanimous decision win over Alain Simon. He defended that title three times before relinquishing it.\n\nLater, Mormeck captured the WBA cruiserweight title by a 9th-round technical knockout win over Virgil Hill on 23 February 2002. Following three defenses with wins over Dale Brown, Alexander Gurov and Virgil Hill again, he added the WBC cruiserweight crown to his collection on 2 April 2005, by way of unanimous decision over Wayne Braithwaite.\n\nHowever, Mormeck lost his WBA and WBC cruiserweight titles to O'Neil Bell after being knocked out in the 10th round. This bout, on 7 January 2006, was for the undisputed (WBA/WBC/IBF) cruiserweight championship.\n\nIn their rematch, Mormeck regained the WBA and WBC titles back from Bell (Bell lost the IBF title over a dispute from the organization) by unanimous decision on 17 March 2007.\n\nIn the first defense of his second title reign, Mormeck lost his WBA, WBC and lineal cruiserweight titles as he was bested by mandatory challenger and knockout specialist David Haye on 10 November 2007. Mormeck was dropped heavily in the 7th round after being hit by a strong right from Haye. Although Mormeck rose up just in time, the referee realized that he was dazed and in no condition to go on, which caused the contest to be stopped and Haye winning the fight by knockout.\n\nOn 17 December 2009, Mormeck made his return to the ring after a two-year layoff, fighting for the first time as a heavyweight, against Vinny Maddalone. He outpointed the veteran heavyweight over 8 rounds.\n\nMormeck fought Uzbek heavyweight and WBA#7 Timur Ibragimov (30-3-1, 16 KO) on 2 December 2010, at Halle Carpentier, Paris.\nMormeck started slowly but dominated the middle rounds to win a split decision (116-112, 116-111, 113-115).\n\nIn October 2011, Mormeck was signed to fight unified Heavyweight Champion Wladimir Klitschko on 10 December 2011 at Esprit Arena, Düsseldorf, Germany until Klitschko pulled out after having a kidney stone removed on 2 December 2011. The fight was postponed to 3 March 2012. In this fight, Mormeck attempted to be only the third cruiserweight champion to win a world title at Heavyweight, after Evander Holyfield and David Haye. However, he was defeated by the 4th - round KO.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1906802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906802", "title": "Pants Rowland", "text": "Pants Rowland\n\nClarence Henry \"Pants\" Rowland (February 12, 1878 – May 17, 1969) was a Major League Baseball manager for the Chicago White Sox from 1915 through 1918 who went on to become a major figure in minor league baseball. He was born in Platteville, Wisconsin. In his varied career that spanned parts of six decades, he was a catcher, scout, major league umpire, minor and major league manager, and a boisterous baseball executive.\n\nHe started in baseball at age nine, where he earned his nickname, \"Pants\", from base-running antics while wearing his father's workday overalls at games of the Dubuque (Iowa) Ninth Street Blues.\n\nRowland served as a reserve catcher in the minor leagues. Never a great player, his love of the game drove him to find other occupations. \n\nPants worked as a scout in the Illinois–Indiana–Iowa League—the so-called \"Three-I\" League—for the Dubuque Miners. He worked his way into a managerial job, which proved to be his early calling.\n\nHe then became the manager of the Three-I League Peoria Distillers in 1914. After the 1914 season, on December 17, Charles Comiskey, possibly as much for his legendary cheapness as for Rowland's talent, surprised White Sox fans and Chicago journalists when he called on Rowland to manage the White Sox.\n\nIn his first year, Rowland and the White Sox finished 93-61, third in the American League; the next year, he finished second. In 1917, he led them to a 100-54 record and a World Series title when they beat the New York Giants. Disagreements with Comiskey got him fired the following season, which, given the state of affairs on the White Sox that led up to the Black Sox Scandal, probably saved his reputation.\n\nRowland's all-time record was 339-247 in 591 games, a .591 winning percentage. Kid Gleason succeeded Rowland as the next manager of the White Sox.\n\nRowland served as an American League umpire for five years (1923-1927), calling games with the likes of Babe Ruth.\n\nIn 1938, as a scout for the Chicago Cubs, he was tasked with the unenviable job of obeying owner Phil Wrigley's orders to buy Dizzy Dean's contract at any cost. Rowland signed the right-handed pitcher for $185,000, one of the most expensive loss leader contracts in baseball history to that point.\n\nHe returned to the front office during World War II. Rowland was the president of the Los Angeles Angels in 1944, where he earned The \"Sporting News\" title of No. 1 minor-league executive.\n\nIt was as president of the Pacific Coast League where Rowland came to real prominence.\n\n\"Pacific Coast baseball men are fed up with playing Santa Claus to the major leagues\", said a \"TIME\" magazine article in December 1944, \"...They do not like losing their Buck Newsomes, Joe Di Maggios and Ted Williamses. They think postwar air travel may well lure some big league club to pick up a Los Angeles franchise (the St. Louis Browns nibbled at it two years ago). Above all, they await the day when they can support a third big league of their own.\"\n\nRowland was the cheerleader for the PCL battle cry of independence. Air travel was still primitive, and the PCL teams had near major-league standing in the rapidly growing cities of the Western United States. He took on major league baseball commissioners Kenesaw Mountain Landis and Happy Chandler, trying to free the league from losing players to the American and National League for a minuscule $7,500 buyout of their contract.\n\nHe went to the 1944 winter meetings of the NABPL (National Association of Professional Baseball Leagues) in Buffalo with a two-plank agenda. He proposed that minor leagues get $10,000 (a compromise figure) instead of $7,500 when one of their players is drafted by a major-league club. He also suggested that if & when the major leagues invade minor-league territory, the incumbent minor-league owners should get first crack at the major franchise.\n\nTo his surprise, Rowland won support for both of his proposals. Landis opposed the PCL proposal and threatened to \"outlaw\" the league if it tried to move up in the world. The former judge, who had been brought in by the owners of baseball to clean up the mess from the 1919 Chicago scandal, held anyone connected with the organization at that time in particularly low esteem. Rowland's ties to the last season of pre-Black Sox ball tarred him with the same brush in the eyes of the man called the \"baseball tyrant.\"\n\nRowland tried his hand at establishing the PCL as a major league after Chandler had succeeded Landis. Chandler and his fact-finding team, which included National League and American League presidents Ford Frick and Will Harridge, begged off again.\n\nAt a meeting in September 1951 in San Francisco, California, Rowland led the charge of the club owners, who voted to serve an ultimatum on the majors. If they did not receive an exemption from the player draft, the PCL would declare itself the third major league, operating as an \"outlaw\" league.\n\n\"We're all living or dying together in this deal, and if the majors won't go along, to hell with 'em\", said C. L. \"Brick\" Laws, owner of the Oakland team in a \"TIME\" Magazine story on the PCL.\n\nWithout the blessings of major league baseball, and with the implied threat they could come into the PCL at any time with one of their clubs, or an expansion club, Rowland was not able to secure the backing for any of his teams which would bring both facilities and teams up to major league standards.\n\nRowland stepped down as PCL president at the close of the 1954 seasons after 11 seasons in office. He then returned to the Cubs as a vice president and was VP emeritus of the club at the time of his death at age 90. \n\nRowland died in Chicago, the hometown of the team he managed. He is interred in Holy Sepulchre Cemetery in Worth, Cook County, Illinois.\n\nRowland was a 1964 inductee in the Wisconsin Athletic Hall of Fame. He was inducted into the Pacific Coast League Hall of Fame in 2005.\n\n"}
{"id": "1906811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906811", "title": "Varroa", "text": "Varroa\n\nVarroa is a genus of parasitic mites associated with honey bees, placed in its own family, Varroidae. The genus was named for Marcus Terentius Varro, a Roman scholar and beekeeper. The condition of a honeybee colony being infested with \"Varroa\" mites is called varroosis (also, incorrectly, varroatosis).\n\n\"Varroa\" mites are recognised as the biggest pest to honeybees worldwide due to their ability to transmit diseases such as deformed wing virus (or dwv) to larval or pupating bees, resulting in death or severe deformity of the pupae.\n\n\"Varroa\" mites feed off the fat body tissue of adult, pupal, and larval honey bees, and may carry viruses that are particularly damaging to the bees (e.g., deformed wings, and IAPV), and accordingly they have been implicated in colony collapse disorder. Research has indicated that alone, neither \"Varroa\" mites nor deformed wing virus are particularly deadly, yet together they can pose an incredible risk to colonies.\n\n\"Varroa\" mites were first discovered in Java about 1904, but are now present in all honey bee populations except Australia, Isle of Man and northern parts of Norway. They were discovered in the United States in 1987, in New Zealand in 2000, and in the United Kingdom in 1992 (Devon).\n\nBee-breeding efforts to develop resistance against \"Varroa\" are ongoing. The USDA has developed a line of bees which uses \"Varroa\"-sensitive hygiene to remove reproductive mites. This line is now being distributed to beekeepers to be used as part of their integrated pest management programs.\n\nThe genus \"Varroa\" contains these species:\n\nSome honey bees strains have been bred to be resistant to \"Varroa\", through Varroa sensitive hygiene (VSH) behavior, enabling them to detect reproducing varroa mites and diseased pupae within capped cells, which are then uncapped and the pupae removed.\n\n"}
{"id": "1906816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906816", "title": "Jassa", "text": "Jassa\n\nJassa is a genus of amphipods in the family Ischyroceridae, comprising the following species:\n"}
{"id": "1906832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906832", "title": "The Talisman (Scott novel)", "text": "The Talisman (Scott novel)\n\nThe Talisman is a novel by Sir Walter Scott. It was published in 1825 as the second of his \"Tales of the Crusaders\", the first being \"The Betrothed\".\n\nIn March 1824, two months before he completed \"Redgauntlet\", Scott envisaged that it would be followed by a four-volume publication containing two tales, at least one of which would be based on the Crusades. He began composition of the first story, \"The Betrothed\", in June, but it made slow progress and came to a halt in the second volume at some point in the autumn after criticisms by James Ballantyne. Scott then changed course and began work on the companion novel \"The Talisman\", and the first two chapters and part of the third were set in type by the end of the year. January 1825 was full of distractions, but a decision to resume \"The Betrothed\" was made in mid-February 1825 and it was essentially complete by mid-March. The way was then clear for the main composition of \"The Talisman\" which proceeded briskly. Its first volume was completed in April and its second at the very beginning of June.\n\nFive clearly identifiable sources have been located for leading elements in \"The Talisman\". The disguised Saladin's account of the origin of the Kurds is taken from the \"Bibliotheque orientale\" by Barthélemy d'Herbelot (1777‒79). The character of Leopold of Austria and his tearing down of Richard's standard was prompted by the Anglo-Norman romance \"Richard Coer de Lyon\". The attempted assassination of Richard is recounted in \"The History of the Crusades\" by Charles Mills (1820). Saladin's beheading of Amaury comes from \"The History of the Knights of Malta\" by the Abbé de Vertot (1728). And the talisman itself is the Lee Penny used to cure people and animals up to Scott's time and preserved at the Lee near Lanark in the Scottish Borders. Scott's sceptical attitude to the Crusades, and his presentation of Richard and Saladin, follow three historians: David Hume, Edward Gibbon, and Mills.\n\nThe first edition of \"The Talisman\" was published in Edinburgh and London on 22 June 1825. There is no conclusive evidence that Scott returned to the novel until the spring of 1831 when he revised the text and provided an introduction and notes for the 'Magnum' edition, in which it appeared as Volume 38 in July 1832. The standard modern edition, by J. B. Ellis with J. H. Alexander, P. D. Garside, and David Hewitt, was published as Volume 18b of the Edinburgh Edition of the Waverley Novels in 2009: this is based on the first edition with emendations mainly from the manuscript; the 'Magnum' material appears in Volume 25b (2012).\n\n\"The Talisman\" takes place at the end of the Third Crusade, mostly in the camp of the Crusaders in Palestine. Scheming and partisan politics, as well as the illness of King Richard the Lionheart, are placing the Crusade in danger. The main characters are the Scottish knight Kenneth, a fictional version of David of Scotland, Earl of Huntingdon, who returned from the third Crusade in 1190; Richard the Lionheart; Saladin; and Edith Plantagenet, a relative of Richard. Other leading characters include the actual historical figure Sir Robert de Sablé The One To Ever Serve As The Eleventh One To Be Known As The Grandmaster Of The Order Of The Knights Templar/The Grandmaster Of The Templar Order and as well as Conrad Aleramici da Montferrat/Conrad Aleramici di Montferrat/Conrad Aleramici de Montferrat, referred to here whilst as “Conrade of Montserrat”, due to an admitted misspelling on The Author Sir Walter Scott’s respective part.\n\nDuring a truce between the Christian armies taking part in the third Crusade, and the infidel forces under Sultan Saladin, Sir Kenneth, on his way to Syria, encountered a Saracen Emir, whom he unhorsed, and they then rode together, discoursing on love and necromancy, towards the cave of the hermit Theodoric of Engaddi. This hermit was in correspondence with the pope, and the knight was charged to communicate secret information. Having provided the travellers with refreshment, the anchorite, as soon as the Saracen slept, conducted his companion to a chapel, where he witnessed a procession, and was recognised by the Lady Edith, to whom he had devoted his heart and sword. He was then startled by the sudden appearance of the dwarfs, and, having reached his couch again, watched the hermit scourging himself until he fell asleep.\nAbout the same time Richard Coeur de Lion had succumbed to an attack of fever, and as he lay in his gorgeous tent at Ascalon, Sir Kenneth arrived accompanied by a Moorish physician, who had cured his squire, and who offered to restore the king to health. After a long consultation, and eliciting from Sir Kenneth his visit to the chapel, the physician was admitted to the royal presence; and, having swallowed a draught which he prepared from a silken bag or talisman, Richard sank back on his cushions. While he slept Conrade of Montserrat secretly avowed to the wily Grand-master of the Templars his ambition to be King of Jerusalem; and, with the object of injuring Richard's reputation, incited Leopold of Austria to plant his banner by the side of that of England in the centre of the camp. When the king woke the fever had left him, and Conrade entered to announce what the archduke had done. Springing from his couch, Richard rushed to the spot and defiantly tore down and trampled on the Teuton pennon. Philip of France at length persuaded him to refer the matter to the council, and Sir Kenneth was charged to watch the English standard until daybreak, with a favourite hound as his only companion. Soon after midnight, however, the dwarf Necbatanus approached him with Lady Edith's ring, as a token that his attendance was required to decide a wager she had with the queen; and during his absence from his post the banner was carried off, and his dog severely wounded. Overcome with shame and grief, he was accosted by the physician, who dressed the animal's wound, and, having entrusted Sir Kenneth with Saladin's desire to marry the Lady Edith, proposed that he should seek the Saracen ruler's protection against the wrath of Richard. The valiant Scot, however, resolved to confront the king and reveal the Sultan's purpose; but it availed him not, and he was sentenced to death, in spite of the intercessions of the queen and his lady-love; when the hermit, and then the physician, arrived, and Richard having yielded to their entreaties, Sir Kenneth was simply forbidden to appear before him again.\n\nHaving, by a bold speech, revived the drooping hopes of his brother Crusaders, and reproved the queen and his kinswoman for tampering with the Scot, Richard received him, disguised as a Nubian slave, as a present from Saladin, with whom he had been induced to spend several days. Shortly afterwards, as the king was reposing in his pavilion, the \"slave\" saved his life from the dagger of an assassin secretly employed by the grand-master, and intimated that he could discover the purloiner of the standard. A procession of the Christian armies and their leaders had already been arranged in token of amity to Richard; and as they marched past him, seated on horseback, with the slave holding the hound among his attendants, the dog suddenly sprang at the Marquis Conrade, who was thus convicted of having injured the animal, and betrayed his guilt by exclaiming, \"I never touched the banner.\" Not being permitted to fight the Teuton himself, the king undertook to provide a champion, and Saladin to make all needful preparations for the combat. Accompanied by Queen Berengaria and Lady Edith, Richard was met by the Saracen with a brilliant retinue, and discovered, in the person of his entertainer, the physician who had cured his fever, and saved Sir Kenneth, whom he found prepared to do battle for him on the morrow, with the hermit as his confessor. The encounter took place soon after sunrise, in the presence of the assembled hosts, and Conrade, who was wounded and unhorsed, was tended by the Sultan in the grand-master's tent, while the victorious knight was unarmed by the royal ladies, and made known by Richard as the Prince Royal of Scotland. At noon the Sultan welcomed his guests to a banquet, but, as the grand-master was raising a goblet to his lips, Necbatanus uttered the words \"accipe hoc\", and Saladin decapitated the templar with his sabre; on which the dwarf explained that, hidden behind a curtain, he had seen him stab his accomplice the Marquis of Montserrat, obviously to prevent him from revealing their infamous plots, while he answered his appeal for mercy in the words he had repeated. The next day the young prince was married to Lady Edith, and presented by the Sultan with his talisman, the Crusade was abandoned, and Richard, on his way homewards, was imprisoned by the Austrians in the Tyrol.\n\n\"Principal characters in bold\"\n\nVolume Three (of \"Tales of the Crusaders\")\n\nCh.1: Sir Kenneth and an Emir [Sheerkohf or Ilderim, Saladin incognito] clash by the Dead Sea and agree a personal truce.\n\nCh. 2: Kenneth and Sheerkohf are contrasted as they arrive at the oasis known as the Diamond of the Desert. They express their differing cultural views of women.\n\nCh. 3: As they continue to debate, Sheerkohf tells of his descent from the immortal Genii. They encounter the hermit Engaddi and are afforded shelter for the night in his cell.\n\nCh. 4: Entering a richly decorated chapel, Kenneth receives the clandestine acknowledgment of one of the choristers, his lady love Edith.\n\nCh. 5: After the service two dwarves, Nectanabus and Guenevra, enter the chapel: Engaddi dismisses them and departs with Kenneth.\n\nCh. 6: The fevered King Richard and Sir Thomas de Vaux discuss the inactivity of the other Crusaders and their inability to find an effective leader.\n\nCh. 7: Kenneth arrives and tries to persuade De Vaux (who is not well disposed to the Scots) that a Moorish physician sent by Saladin, Adouban el Hakim [Saladin again in disguise], should be admitted to Richard.\n\nCh. 8: Richard tells De Vaux that he will see El Hakim. De Vaux and the Archbishop of Tyre discuss the physician and receive a demonstration of his skill. The Archbishop is alarmed to learn that Kenneth has returned.\n\nCh. 9: Kenneth tells Richard that he sought Engaddi, at the behest of the Crusading council, to act as a vehicle for securing a lasting peace. Giles Amaury, Grand Master of the Templars, and Conrade of Montserrat urge Richard not to trust El Hakim, but he drinks the cup of water prepared by the physician by dipping a talisman in it.\n\nCh. 10: Amaury and Conrade consider that their ambitions will be best served by a Crusader withdrawal, to which Richard is opposed. Amaury suggests he be assassinated, but they agree that Conrade should first attempt to stir up dissent between Austria and England. \n\nCh. 11: Conrade arouses Leopold of Austria, who plants his banner alongside Richard's. Richard fells the Austrian flag and the Earl Wallenrode, and entrusts the care of his own standard to Kenneth.\n\nCh. 12: Nectanabus brings a ring as a token from Edith and persuades Kenneth to leave the banner unattended.\n\nCh. 13: Kenneth overhears the royal ladies discussing him in their tent: it becomes clear that he has been enticed to leave the standard as a result of a wager by the Queen, and when he is revealed Edith urges him to return to his watch. He finds Richard's flag gone and his own dog Roswal injured. \n\nVolume Four\n\nCh. 1 (14): El Hakim sets about tending Roswal and tells Kenneth that Tyre is to suggest to Richard a plan including the marriage of Saladin and Edith as part of a peace treaty.\n\nCh. 2 (15): Kenneth accepts the royal sentence of death for deserting the banner.\n\nCh. 3 (16): At Edith's urging, Queen Berengaria agrees to intercede with her husband for Kenneth's life.\n\nCh. 4 (17): Berengaria and Edith, seconded by Engaddi, obtain a stay of execution for Kenneth.\n\nCh. 5 (18): El Hakim obtains a pardon for Kenneth, who will become the physician's slave. Engaddi unveils an agreement which will deal with Leopold without involving violence.\n\nCh. 6 (19): Tyre presents the marriage plan to Richard, who is not unreceptive but decides to make one attempt to rally his allies. This is successful. Amaury proposes to Conrade that they employ a Charegite (belonging to a fanatical Islamic sect) to eliminate Richard.\n\nCh. 7 (20): The royal ladies decide to tell Richard the truth about Kenneth's desertion of the banner, and he pardons the Queen for her irresponsible behaviour. Edith complains to Richard about Kenneth's bondage. A mute Nubian slave, Zohauk [Kenneth in disguise], arrives with a letter from Saladin presenting him as a gift to Richard. He is followed by a dancing dervise [the Charegite].\n\nCh. 8 (21): Zohauk saves Richard from assassination by the dervise. He undertakes (in writing) to reveal the identity of the banner thief, and indicates that he has a message to deliver to Edith from Saladin.\n\nCh. 9 (22): [The narrative retrogrades to follow Ch. 18] El Hakim and his slave Kenneth out-gallop a party of Templars.\n\nCh. 10 (23): El Hakim reveals himself as the Emir of the opening chapters and arranges that Kenneth, disguised as Zohauk, will convey Saladin's message to Edith.\n\nCh. 11 (24): Roswal attacks Conrade, identifying him as the banner thief, and arrangements are made for a duel between him and a royal champion. \n\nCh. 12 (25): Richard, aware that Zohauk is Kenneth, hints that he may become his champion against Conrade and sends him, escorted by Sir Henry Neville, with Saladin's letter to Edith. Although she recognises him, he persists in his dumbness as agreed with Richard, and she spurns both him and the letter.\n\nCh. 13 (26): Blondel sings the lay of 'The Bloody Vest' at Richard's request, and Edith tells the King of her intention to reject Saladin's approach for her hand.\n\nCh. 14 (27): Richard and his followers arrive at the Diamond of the Desert where the duel is to take place. Saladin demonstrates his skill with a scimitar before revealing that he was El Hakim. De Vaux indicates to the King that Kenneth is ready to act as champion, and Edith that she has no particular interest in him.\n\nCh. 15 (28): Preparations are made for the combat, and Amaury tries to stiffen Conrade's resolve. Kenneth defeats him and Richard announces he has discovered the Scot to be the Earl of Huntingdon. Amuray kills Conrade to prevent him from revealing his own treachery, leading Saladin to kill him in turn. Saladin's sense of his responsibility as a ruler leads him to decline Richard's impetuous offer of a combat. Huntingdon and Edith marry, Saladin sending them the talisman as a gift.\n\nThe piece features many schemes from within the alliance against Richard the Lionheart's plans to complete the Crusade. These involve historical figures such as the Master of the Knights Templar and Conrad of Montserrat (the historical Conrad of Montferrat: Scott mistook the F for a long S in his researches). After several betrayals and a nearly fatal mistake by Kenneth, his redemption, justice for the schemers, and the peace treaty follow.\n\nAn interesting feature is the character of Saladin—portrayed as virtuous and moral, in contrast to some of the despicable European nobles in the story. This is a feature of Romanticism, but perhaps also a reflection of a rising European interest in the Orient.\n\nSir Kenneth is eventually revealed to be David of Scotland, Earl of Huntingdon in disguise, and marries the Lady Edith. However, David's real wife (married in 1190) was Maud of Chester, who goes unmentioned; Edith Plantagenet is a fictional character. David was also in his late forties at the time of the Third Crusade, while Sir Kenneth appears to be considerably younger.\n\nLeading Crusades historian Jonathan Riley-Smith accused Walter Scott of propagating a romanticized view of the Crusades now discredited by academics, \"which depicts the Muslims as sophisticated and civilised, and the Crusaders are all brutes and barbarians. It has nothing to do with reality.\"\n\nOnly a handful of reviewers dissented from the overwhelmingly enthusiastic reception of \"The Talisman\". It was generally ranked among the best of the Waverley novels, with admiration of its dazzling richness and high colouring. The plot was skilfully conducted, and the characters well discriminated and interesting, with Richard and Saladin outstandingly complex, and Edith and De Vaux both impressive. The small number of objectors tended to find the work extravagant and theatrical in a bad sense.\n\nThe movie \"King Richard and the Crusaders\" (1954) was based on \"The Talisman\". The Italian silent film \"Il talismano\" (1911) and \"King Richard the Lion-Hearted\" (1923) were also based on the novel. The Egyptian epic film \"El Naser Salah-Ad Din\" (\"Saladin Victorious\", 1963) takes much of its inspiration from this novel.\n\nIn 1980 a British miniseries was also made of \"The Talisman\".\n\nIn 1992 and 1993, Russian director Yevgeni Gerasimov adapted \"The Betrothed\" and \"The Talisman\" under the titles \"Richard L'vinoe Serdtse\" and \"Ritsar' Kennet\".\n\nThe 2005 epic film \"Kingdom of Heaven\", directed by Sir Ridley Scott and starring Orlando Bloom, Liam Neeson and Edward Norton, while set in an earlier period, took part of its plot from \"The Talisman\". Major elements include: the figure of Saladin as a noble ruler, a young European nobleman coming alone to the Crusades and encountering and fighting a Saracen warrior who is later revealed to be of higher birth than the viewer/reader is led to believe, his becoming a good friend of the latter, and finally a forbidden romance between the young nobleman and a young woman of royal heritage.\n\nIn 1951, British Railways named the 10 o'clock King's Cross - Edinburgh Waverley non-stop express train \"The Talisman\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1906833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906833", "title": "Anthonomus", "text": "Anthonomus\n\nAnthonomus is a genus of weevils. This genus includes major agricultural pests such as the boll weevil, strawberry blossom weevil, and pepper weevil, as well as promising biological pest control agents such as \"Anthonomus santacruzi\".\nThe taxonomy of the genus is still under revision. It is unclear whether \"Cnemocyllus\" should be a genus or a subgenus within \"Anthonomus\". Research suggests that the genus \"Hampea\" in the mallow family was the original host plant for the \"A. grandis\" species group.\n\n"}
{"id": "1906835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906835", "title": "Sidi", "text": "Sidi\n\nSidi or Sayidi, also Sayyidi and Sayeedi, ( \"milord\") is an Arabic masculine title of respect. \"Sidi\" is used often to mean \"saint\" or \"my master\" in Maghrebi Arabic and Egyptian Arabic. Without the \nfirst person possessive object pronoun \"-ī\" (ي-), the word is used similarly in other dialects, in which case it would be the equivalent to modern popular usage of the English \"Mr\". It is also used in dialects such as Eastern Arabic, as well as by Muslims of the Indian subcontinent in the Urdu language where, however, it does not have as much currency as \"Sayyid\", \"Janab\" or \"Sahib\".\n\nOccasionally a respected member of a Muslim society will be given the title \"Sidi\" by default in recognition of upright standing and wisdom. This especially applies to marabouts, hence the term appears in places and mosques named after one.\n\n\nIn the Hijaz region of Saudi Arabia, the word is used as an honorific when addressing an older brother by many of the more traditional families.\n\nSeparate variants and a shift of meaning appeared: \n\n\"Lalla\" (of Amazigh origin) when used in a social context, and \"Sayyeda\" when speaking about female saints, for example \"\"(Es-)Sayyeda El-Manoubiyya\"\" are female equivalents.\n\nThe term was also used by Arabized Spanish, Portuguese and Berbers in Mozarabic-speaking Moorish Spain (cf. El Cid).\n\n"}
{"id": "1906837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906837", "title": "The Talisman (King and Straub novel)", "text": "The Talisman (King and Straub novel)\n\nThe Talisman is a 1984 fantasy novel by American writers Stephen King and Peter Straub. The plot is not related to that of Walter Scott's 1825 novel of the same name, although there is one oblique reference to \"a Sir Walter Scott novel.\" \"The Talisman\" was nominated for both the Locus and World Fantasy Awards in 1985. King and Straub followed up with a sequel, \"Black House\" (2001), that picks up with a now-adult Jack as a retired Los Angeles homicide detective trying to solve a series of murders in the small town of French Landing, Wisconsin.\n\nJack Sawyer, twelve years old, sets out from Arcadia Beach, New Hampshire in a bid to save his mother, who is dying from cancer, by finding a crystal called \"the Talisman.\" Jack's journey takes him simultaneously through the American heartland and \"the Territories,\" a strange fantasy land which is set in a universe parallel to that of Jack's United States. Individuals in the Territories have \"twinners,\" or parallel individuals, in our world. Twinners' births, deaths, and (it is intimated) other major life events are usually paralleled. Twinners can also \"flip\" or migrate to the other world, but only share the body of their alternate universe's analogue. When flipped, the Twinner, or the actual person, will automatically start speaking and thinking the language of where they are flipping into subconsciously.\n\nIn rare instances (such as Jack's), a person may die in one world but not the other, making the survivor \"single-natured\" with the ability to switch back and forth, body and mind, between the two worlds. Jack is taught how to flip by a mysterious figure known as Speedy Parker, who is the twinner of a gunslinger named Parkus in the Territories. In the Territories, the beloved Queen Laura DeLoessian, the twinner of Jack's mother (a movie actress known as the \"Queen of the B Movies\") is dying as well.\n\nVarious people help or hinder Jack in his quest. Of particular importance are the werewolves, known simply as Wolfs, who inhabit the Territories. These are not the savage killers of tradition: they serve as royal herdsmen or bodyguards, and can sometimes under stress voluntarily change to wolf form, in addition to facing an involuntary transformation that lasts about three days at the time of the full moon. A sixteen-year-old Wolf, simply named Wolf, is pulled into America by Jack Sawyer and adopts Jack as his pack, serving as his companion. Wolf is extremely likeable, kind, loyal and friendly, much like a dog, though his wolf nature shows through on occasion. On the other hand, some Wolfs have joined the malevolent faction which is trying to stop Jack.\n\nAs the story goes back and forth between the Territories and the familiar United States, or \"American Territories\" as Jack comes to call them, Jack escapes from one life-threatening situation after another. Accompanied by Wolf and later by his childhood friend Richard, Jack must retrieve the Talisman before it falls into the hands of evil schemer Morgan Sloat, Richard's father, who, we later learn, was Jack's father's business partner before arranging to have the latter murdered. He wants to seize their business from Jack's mother. Morgan Sloat's twinner, Morgan of Orris, also plans to seize the Territories in the event of Queen Laura's death.\n\nThe idea of writing \"The Talisman\" first took form when Stephen King moved with his family to London in early 1977. It was there he met Peter and Susan Straub, and their children. The two writers became friends, both being fans of each other's work. King and his family left London three months later to return to the United States.\n\nStraub and King had talked multiple times before about collaborating to write a book, but nothing ever surfaced until years after King returned stateside, when the Straubs also moved to the United States. According to King, after Straub moved, \"the talk got serious,\" and they began collaborating. Their literary friendship continued after \"The Talisman\" was published; in 1999 they began working on the sequel, \"Black House\" (2001), which deals with Jack Sawyer as an adult.\n\nA third and final book in the Jack Sawyer series is planned.\n\nWhen Jack \"flips,\" he finds himself in a parallel world, which is physically smaller than the world from which he comes. Throughout the course of the novel, Jack uses the size differential as a method to travel quickly across the country. The eastern region, corresponding to the Eastern Seaboard, is the most densely populated and is governed under a feudal system headed by the Queen. The central regions, roughly corresponding to the American plains, are a grain growing area known as \"the Outposts.\" Beyond them the western region of the Territories is a destroyed area known as \"the Blasted Lands\" (analogous to the American Southwest – primarily New Mexico, where the atomic bomb was tested). It apparently was wrecked by radioactivity and has dangerous mutants and occasional fireballs.\n\nWhere Jack begins his quest and meets Speedy Parker. It is a decaying building on the New Hampshire coast, at the end of the novel deserted except for Jack's mother. Its parallel in the Territories is the summer palace of the dying queen.\n\nThe Alhambra was also a notable location in King's novel \"The Tommyknockers\".\n\nA bar in the fictional western New York town of the same name. The owner, Smokey, holds Jack as a virtual slave. Jack despises him for this mistreatment.\n\nWhen Jack and Wolf are accused of mischievous \"hitchhiking\" and \"trouble-making\" by a highway police officer, they are sent by the court to a camp/school for troubled youths run by evangelist Robert \"Sunlight\" Gardner/Osmond. It is located in eastern Indiana and parallels a terrible open pit mine in the Territories where slaves are used to gather radioactive ore for Morgan. Jack and Wolf are held as wards of the state in Sunlight Gardener's School for one month, escaping after Wolf transforms and brutally kills a number of students in the school. Sunlight Gardener escapes during the attack and Wolf is shot four times by Sonny Singer (a prefect at the school) and dies of his injuries.\n\nA boarding school for wealthy boys in Springfield, Illinois. Jack meets up with his friend Richard here. The school is shifted into another plane by Morgan, where wolves and gargoyle-like creatures try to seize Jack.\n\nIn the ruined town of Point Venuti on the northern California coast. It is a mysterious abandoned black structure similar to the Alhambra. It holds the Talisman and has many different incarnations depending on the alternate universe. In The Territories it appears as a black castle. It is through this building's shifting forms as Jack nears the Talisman that the reader learns of a multitude of other worlds of which the Territories and America are only two.\n\nBecause Straub and King were both immensely successful and popular horror and suspense writers in their own rights, anticipation of this book was extremely strong. The publisher financed a USD$550,000 promotion budget and several articles ran which hailed the collaboration of the two writers and speculated what would be “the greatest horror novel ever written.”\n\nActual popular and critical reception, however, were mixed and ran the spectrum from \"worst\" (\"People\": \"Worst of Pages\" list) and \"best\" (\"Twilight Zone\": Year's Best Novel). However, with the exception of \"People\", no critics recommended against it.\n\nAccording to \"Publishers Weekly\", the final sales figure for \"The Talisman\" in 1984 was 880,287 copies. The original hardbound edition spent 12 weeks as #1 on the \"New York Times\" Best Seller List with a total of 23 weeks in total on the list. \"Publishers Weekly\" listed it as #1 for 11 weeks, with a total of 26 weeks on the list.\n\nThe subsequent Berkley paperback edition spent 2 weeks as #1 on the \"New York Times\" best paperback list with a total of 14 weeks on the list. \"Publishers Weekly\" listed it as #1 for 3 weeks, with 13 weeks in total on the list.\n\nThe book's sequel \"Black House\" presents a \"soft\" retcon that the Territories are a parallel to All-World. This is made most clear by King's introduction to \"The Little Sisters of Eluria\" where he states the pavilion where Jack Sawyer meets Sophie is the same one in \"The Little Sisters\".\n\n\"The Talisman\" has been adapted into a 2008 short film and a graphic novel much like \"The Stand\" and \"The Dark Tower\". The first issue was published in October 2009. Del Rey planned to run \"at least 24 issues\", however only six issues were published.\n\nA feature-length film version has been in planning for decades, and is currently in development by Amblin Partners and The Kennedy/Marshall Company with a script by Chris Sparling.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1906844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906844", "title": "Bill Wrye", "text": "Bill Wrye\n\nWilliam Munro Wrye (born December 25, 1944) is a Canadian former politician in Ontario, Canada. He served in the Legislative Assembly of Ontario as a Liberal from 1981 to 1990, and was a cabinet minister in the government of David Peterson.\n\nWrye was educated at the Ryerson Polytechnical Institute in Toronto, and worked as a television producer for CBC before entering political life.\n\nIn the 1981 provincial election he was elected to the Ontario legislature defeating incumbent New Democrat Ted Bounsall by 134 votes in the constituency of Windsor—Sandwich. He was re-elected by a greater margin in the 1985 election.\n\nAfter serving in opposition for two years, the Ontario Liberal Party formed a minority government following the 1985 election. Wrye, who represented a large working-class constituency, was appointed Minister of Labour on June 26, 1985. As Labour Minister, Wrye brought forward legislation providing automatic yearly adjustments of workers-compensation benefits to the consumer price index.\n\nHe defeated George Dadamo of the NDP by 2,353 votes in the 1987 election, and was named Minister of Consumer and Commercial Relations on September 29, 1987. After a cabinet shuffle on August 2, 1989, he was named Minister of Transportation.\n\nThe Liberals were defeated by the NDP in the 1990 provincial election, and Wrye lost his seat to George Dadamo by over 4,000 votes.\n\nWrye has recently served with the Windsor-Essex County branch of the Canadian Mental Health Association.\n\nWrye was a party delegate supporting Dwight Duncan at the Liberal Party's 1996 leadership convention. After Duncan's elimination, he shifted his allegiance to Gerard Kennedy (\"Windsor Star\", December 3, 1996). In 2003, Wrye was named as executive assistant to Duncan, who was by this time the government house leader and Liberal Member of Provincial Parliament for Windsor—St. Clair. Ironically, Duncan had once been a member of Wrye's staff.\n"}
{"id": "1906846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906846", "title": "Town and gown", "text": "Town and gown\n\nTown and gown are two distinct communities of a university town; 'town' being the non-academic population and 'gown' metonymically being the university community, especially in ancient seats of learning such as Oxford, Cambridge, Durham, and St Andrews, although the term is also used to describe modern university towns as well as towns with a significant public school. The metaphor is historical in its connotation but continues to be used in the literature on urban higher education and in common parlance.\n\nDuring the Middle Ages, students admitted to European universities often held minor clerical status and donned garb similar to that worn by the clergy. These vestments evolved into the academic long black gown, worn along with hood and cap. The gown proved comfortable for studying in unheated and draughty buildings and thus became a tradition in the universities. The gown also served as a social symbol, as it was impractical for physical manual work. The hood was often adorned with the colours of the colleges and designated the young scholar's university affiliation. Thus by their distinctive clothing, the students were set apart and distinguished from the citizens of the town; hence the phrase \"town and gown\".\n\nThe idea of a school of higher learning as a distinct and autonomous institution within an urban setting dates back to the Academy founded by Plato c. 387 BC. The Academy was established as a sacred sanctuary for learning outside the city walls of Athens. The Academy endured for nine centuries until it was closed, along with other pagan schools, by Emperor Justinian in 529 AD.\n\nIn the 12th century, when the early medieval universities came into existence – first in Italy and then across Europe – they were founded without physical campuses. The masters simply rented lecture halls in the host cities. Early on, there were few identifiable campus buildings (other than the residential colleges that were established at some universities). Most students took lodging in the university towns. The scholars often congregated in identifiable areas of cities, most famously the Left Bank (\"Rive gauche\") of the Seine in Paris – what became known as the Quartier Latin (\"The Latin Quarter\", due to the use of spoken Latin). Thus, the medieval institutions were more integrated into the cities than in the case of the Academy. It is no accident that most medieval universities were founded within cities. The schools' existence required a permanent population and an infrastructure that included a vibrant marketplace and system of governance, but their dependence on the host towns was limited. In most instances, the endowment of the medieval universities was drawn largely, if not entirely, from the revenues of the Catholic Church. Consequently, the universities were largely independent of municipal revenues and, to a great extent, of civil authority. The medieval \"studium\" remained a sanctuary in its status as beneficiary of the Catholic Church and in the scholars' exemption from civil law. Such special jurisdictions were by no means uncommon in the Middle Ages. The applicable law varied greatly by person, organisation and area: the towns themselves had legal systems totally different from the surrounding countryside, and even inside the town, every guild usually had its own special privileges and rights. The independent jurisdiction of the universities essentially was part of this system.\n\nThe initial relationship between the medieval universities and the host town was adversarial for various reasons, and over time, the universities' growing autonomy and independence from local control led to increasing tensions with host towns. Also, the steady encroachment of universities upon neighbouring areas created a point of contention between town and gown (continuing to the present).\n\nThe medieval universities formed as guilds of masters (teachers) and/or students on the model established by the crafts guilds. Once the scholars were able to receive a charter, they would begin negotiations with municipal authorities to secure fair rents for lecture halls and other concessions. Because they had no investment in a physical campus, they could threaten to migrate to another town if their demands were not met. This was not an empty threat. The scholars at the University of Lisbon in Portugal migrated to Coimbra, and then later back to Lisbon in the 14th century. Scholars would also go on strike, leave the host city, and not return for years. This happened at the University of Paris after a riot in 1229 (started by the students). The university did not return to Paris for two years.\n\nMany university students were foreigners with exotic manners and dress who spoke and wrote Latin, the \"lingua franca\" of medieval higher education in Western Europe. Students often could not speak the local dialect, and most uneducated townspeople spoke no Latin. The language barrier and the cultural differences did nothing to improve relations between scholars and townspeople. The tenor of town–gown relations became a matter of arrogance on the one hand and resentment on the other.\n\nStudents in the medieval universities enjoyed certain exemptions from the jurisdiction of the ordinary civil courts. These privileges were normally safeguarded by a conservator Apostolic, usually a bishop or archbishop appointed by the pope. By the Papal bull \"Parens scientiarum\" (\"Father of the Sciences\") (1231), the charter of the University of Paris, Pope Gregory IX authorised the masters, in the event of an outrage committed by anyone upon a scholar and not redressed within fifteen days, to suspend their lectures. This right of cessation of lectures was frequently made use of in conflicts between town and gown. On various occasions, the popes themselves intervened to protect the scholars against encroachments by the local civil authorities. Pope Nicholas IV in 1288 threatened to disrupt the \"studium\" at Padua unless the municipal authorities repealed within fifteen days ordinances they had framed against scholars. It became quite common for the university to lay its grievances against the city fathers before the Holy See, and its appeal was usually successful. (See The Catholic Encyclopedia for a more in-depth discussion.)\n\nThus, medieval students were under the legal protection of the clergy, who protected them from physical harm. They could be tried for crimes only in a church court under Canon law. The protection from civil law gave students free rein in the urban environs to break secular laws with near impunity. This often led to abuses and outright criminal behaviour among students who realised they enjoyed immunity from civil authorities. The anomalous jurisdictional situation only exacerbated tensions between town and gown.\n\nConflict was inevitable in the medieval university towns, where two separately governed bodies with different priorities and loyalties shared the same restricted space. Moreover, violence was commonplace in medieval life, not only between scholars and townsmen, but also among ordinary citizens, as well as between scholars from different regions of Europe who attended the universities.\n\nViolent confrontations between town and gown erupted on a recurring basis. One of the most famous was the Battle of St. Scholastica Day, which occurred on 10 February 1355, at the University of Oxford. An argument in a tavern – a familiar scenario – escalated into a protracted two-day battle in which local citizens armed with bows attacked the academic village, killing and maiming scores of scholars. The rioters were severely punished, and thenceforth, the Mayor and Bailiffs had to attend a Mass for the souls of the dead every St. Scholastica's Day thereafter and to swear an annual oath to observe the university's privileges. For 500 years, Oxford observed a day of mourning for that tragedy.\n\nThe University of Cambridge was originally set up after a fight between the townspeople of Oxford and scholars from the University of Oxford forced many scholars to flee to a new location in 1209. Later, the tension between the scholars at Cambridge and the townspeople forced the king to grant special privileges and protection to Cambridge University, which helped enormously in the survival and future success of the university.\n\nBy the mid-15th century, kings were putting an end to student power within the universities. They ordered papal legates to reform the universities and restricted student boycotts and strikes. From then on, whether under king or revolutionary government, dictator or Parliament, European universities would customarily be ruled by the central authority – although the degree of control varied widely over time and place.\n\nFollowing the upheavals of the High Middle Ages, relations between the European universities and the host towns evolved toward a pattern of mutual support. Cities, on some occasions, took over payment of salaries and provided loans, while regulating the book trade, lodgings, and the various other services students required. Eventually, cities began to take pride in their universities rather than look upon them as adversaries. \n\nOver the centuries, the relationship between town and gown has remained ambivalent. There have been points where a university in crisis has been rescued by the urban dynamics surrounding it, while at other times, urban developments have threatened to undermine the stability of the university. Conversely, there have been occasions where the university provided a focus and coherence for the cultural life of the city; though at other times, it has withdrawn into itself and undermined urban culture.\n\nDespite generally improved relations between town and gown in the post-medieval era, disputes and conflicts were a recurring phenomenon. A brief chronicle of incidents involving Yale College students and residents of New Haven, Connecticut, illustrates the continuing strain upon town–gown relations. The nature of these disputes ranged from theological to martial.\n\nFounded in 1701, Yale moved to New Haven in 1716. In 1753, President Thomas Clap began holding separate Sunday worship services for students in the college instead of at First Church, because he felt that the minister, Joseph Noyes, was theologically suspect. (Yale was founded by Congregational ministers but currently has no religious affiliation.) This move alienated the Connecticut clergy and marked the beginning of the Yale undergraduates' ambivalent relationship with the town of New Haven.\n\nOver the course of a century, New Haven witnessed a series of violent confrontations between students and \"townies\" that recall the confrontations in the medieval university towns. In 1806, a full-scale riot – the first of many – fought with fists, clubs, and knives, broke out between off-duty sailors and Yale students. In 1841, a clash with city firefighters took place. After Yale students attacked the firehouse and destroyed equipment, a town mob threatened to burn the college. Military companies had to be called in to keep the peace. Then in 1854, bricks and bullets flew after a confrontation between students and townspeople at a New Haven theatre. When the leader of the town group was stabbed, students retreated to the college. The locals actually brought in two militia cannons and aimed them at the college but were stopped by constables before they could fire them.\n\nThings were relatively quiet until 1919, when returning local servicemen, angry over perceived insults from Yale students, attacked the Old Campus. Finding the gates locked, they broke hundreds of windows and moved on to theatres and restaurants in the town, assaulting any students they could find. In 1959, a student snowball fight on city streets got out of hand and resulted in arrests by New Haven police. Students then pelted police officers with snowballs during the St. Patrick's Day parade. The so-called \"snowball riot\" attracted national media attention – a preview of the tumultuous 1960s.\n\nA wave of student unrest took place in North America and Europe during the 1960s, from Paris to Mexico City to California. The Free Speech Movement, centred at the University of California, Berkeley, has often been cited as the starting point of the unrest. The US student movement was ostensibly about demands for more freedom and a share in decision making on campus, but it was stoked by two broader issues – civil rights for African Americans and protest of the Vietnam War. The most violent incidents occurred when National Guard troops fired upon and killed four students at Kent State University in Ohio and when police fired on dormitories at Jackson State University in Mississippi in spring, 1970, killing two bystanders (See links below).\n\nThe town-and-gown divide is visible in numerous older universities globally. In the university town of Uppsala in Sweden, clergy, royalty and academia historically reside on the western shore of the river Fyris, somewhat separated from the rest of the city, and the ensemble of cathedral (consecrated 1435), castle and university (founded in 1477) has remained mostly undisturbed until today. Since the Middle Ages, commercial activity has been geographically centred on the eastern side of the river.\n\nMany of the medieval traditions have carried into the modern era, and universities retain certain historical privileges. Two examples are illustrative: 1) Students in some universities were compelled to wear gowns up to the 1960s to make them identifiable to the university authorities. 2) Under the Russian tsars, police were forbidden to enter the universities, a tradition that was respected during the Russian repression of Prague in the summer of 1968.\n\nCities and their universities evolved from the integrated residential patterns of the High Middle Ages to a more distinct partition. As colleges acquired physical facilities, visible campuses formed with a proximate student population. Residential colleges became a fixture in European universities, while American colleges (often located in small towns) sequestered students in dormitories under close supervision. The lines that defined the two communities were clearly drawn, but this distinction was becoming blurred by the 1970s.\n\nThe doctrine of \"in loco parentis\" had developed both as a legal concept and as a custom in the United States. The Latin phrase meaning \"in place of a parent\" held schools to a high standard of care for the welfare of students. However, this legal concept was eroded by the Bradshaw decision and by subsequent court rulings. The pendulum would swing back toward the medieval model, where students could enjoy significant autonomy in their choice of residence and habits.\n\nThe trend of American students living off campus had emerged during the post-World War II era. The Servicemen's Readjustment Act legislation, popularly known as the \"G.I. Bill\", provided large numbers of returning veterans with the financial aid to pursue college degrees. Many veterans were older than traditional students or had families to support; this further spurred the growth of off-campus housing. It was estimated that by century's end, as many as 85% of American college students lived off campus (Carnegie Commission). This residential trend – and other factors – would mitigate the division between town and gown (but not necessarily the tensions). Universities increasingly integrated into cities as cities absorbed and accommodated universities. Commuter colleges, such as San Francisco State University, now enroll large numbers of students who live at a distance, commute to campus for classes, and then leave at the end of each school day. Concurrently, American universities have opened branch campuses and even offer classes in storefront venues.\n\nHowever, the recent integration of campus and community has not been without problems. For one thing, an urban university can generate major traffic and exacerbate parking problems in adjacent neighbourhoods. The quality of neighbourhoods near a university may deteriorate. Certain industries requiring highly educated workers, such as biotechnology, may be drawn to college communities. The growth of these knowledge economies, and additional upwardly mobile residents, may increase the competition for community space or drive up land costs. The expansion of campuses has led to the razing of some neighbourhoods and the displacement of large numbers of city residents. These factors create continuing tensions between town and gown, but in some scenarios, the university and the local community work together in revitalisation projects.\n\nLocal residents and members of the university community may clash over other political, economic, and demographic issues. Some localities in the Northeastern United States have tried to block students from registering to vote in elections as local residents, instead demanding that they vote by absentee ballot at their parents' residence. (Manahan, 1980) Many universities in college towns are located on unincorporated land, which prevents students living in on-campus housing from voting in town elections.\n\nAs urban universities increase in size and complexity, they hire a large staff of city residents. Labor unions have formed on campuses and bargain collectively for contracts. In 1971, a 53-day strike among Yale employees was the longest in the school's history. Union leaders stated that they considered Yale's social commitment to New Haven to be a key issue in the job action. University workers in New Haven would strike again and again in the 1970s, 1980s, and 1990s.\n\nMunicipalities and universities continue to negotiate police jurisdiction on and near campuses. Today, many universities and colleges maintain their own police forces. In cities where a significant number of students live off campus, university police may be allowed to patrol these neighbourhoods to provide an extra measure of security. Meanwhile, civil libertarians argue that school officials should only call on local law enforcement to intervene when it is necessary to protect the safety of people on campus. Such intrusion is legally mandated in some jurisdictions when school officials have reasonable suspicion to believe that a student is breaking the law. Generally, local police are reluctant to go on campus if a college maintains its own security force (the Kent State and Jackson State killings are examples of intervention turning into tragedy).\n\nRaucous off-campus parties and the excessive noise and public drunkenness associated with them can also create town–gown animosity. The University of Colorado (Boulder, Colorado, USA) and Queen's University (Kingston, Canada) provide examples where street parties have escalated into riots. In 1995, at Wilfrid Laurier University in sedate Waterloo, Ontario, the \"Ezra Street riot\" occurred when 1500 revellers showed up at an end-of-the-year student party on Ezra Street. The party goers drank copious amounts of beer, threw bottles, and carried on in ways that resulted in 42 arrests and two serious injuries – one when a woman was hit by a chunk of concrete thrown at the party, the other when a man was run over by a jeep. The end result was the university's adoption of a new \"Code of Conduct\" to govern student behaviour.\n\nIn the 1970s and 1980s, attention was often focused on off-campus fraternities and sororities, whose sometimes rowdy events were lampooned in the 1978 film \"Animal House\". Ironically, the institution of \"social responsibility\" measures to restrict events at fraternity houses has exacerbated tensions, as events moved to non-Greek block and house parties farther off campus. The push of social events off campus also increases the incidents of drunk driving, as students who wish to party are pushed outside of campus.\n\nIn the US, a rash of disputes between public universities and host cities have developed in regard to the cost and benefits of the town–gown connection. Universities boast that their existence is the backbone of the town economy, while the towns counter with claims that the institution is \"robbing\" them of tax revenue; but as universities expand their campuses, more land property is removed from local tax rolls. Attempts are being pursued to redefine the basic financial terms and conditions upon which the relationship is based. As tax-exempt institutions, universities have had no legal obligation to contribute to the coffers of city government, but some do make payments in lieu of taxes based on negotiated agreements (as is the case in Boston).\n\nDespite the rise in legal battles, universities and host towns have an incentive to co-operate, as the schools require city services and need city approval for long-range plans while the university towns need remuneration for public services provided. The \"engaged university\" is a recent term describing community partnerships and joint planning with city officials. Additionally, in some college towns, local culture is constructed by students and non-students alike, such as Athens, Georgia, which was ranked as the No. 1 college music town by \"Rolling Stone Magazine\". In Athens, local culture that students identify with and take part in is often supported or created by non-students, in this case, musicians. While some degree of misunderstanding or rivalry might persist between \"students\" and \"townies\", coexistence and co-operation take place as well.\n\nTown–gown parameters may become increasingly difficult to define in the near future. Geography is less salient as a factor in urban higher education in the Information Age. Some private institutions, such as the University of Phoenix, rely less on geographical presence, enrolling students in a broad range of online degree programs. Other courses may comprise part-time or night classes for working professionals or intensive training taking place over a group of weekends or months. Many of these non-traditional students live and work full-time in the surrounding community. Traditional brick-and-mortar universities have countered with their own distance education courses via television and the Internet. Traditional universities also recruit locally for special programs, such as executive MBA degrees.\n\nThe 12th century witnessed the birth of the first predecessors of the modern university; many educational futurists argue that the division between town and gown is rapidly fading and that the 21st century is the cusp of another revolutionary educational paradigm. According to these forecasts, the 21st-century college student may well be someone sitting at his or her personal computer miles from a college campus. Graduation may or may not include the traditional commencement ceremony. These reformers argue that for graduating students, the gown may be left hanging in the closet, with the graduate interacting more seamlessly within the global community. However, such views are currently dismissed to a greater or lesser extent by leading universities, who admit the importance of technology and the diminution in town/gown rivalries but stress the continuing value of traditional learning and teaching methods.\n\nPost-2000s, the face of town and gown relations has changed as the effects of agglomeration have increasingly been studied and understood in urban economics. University agglomeration, or clustering, occurs when a large amount of institutions of higher education all locate in the same geographical area. This shift has been an important one for town and gown relations, as increasingly relationships between universities and their surrounding communities is no longer bilateral but multilateral; no longer town and gown but town and gowns. Prominent examples of such agglomeration in the United States include the large numbers of colleges and universities located in the San Francisco Bay Area, contributing to the development of Silicon Valley, as well as the well-known Research Triangle located in North Carolina. \n\nThese agglomerations in metropolitan areas leads to what experts call knowledge spillovers, which is simply defined as the exchange of ideas among individuals. The physical proximity of entities allows for the rapid exchange of knowledge, ideas, expertise, and people. A common example of knowledge spillovers is a business park, where many businesses that often have no relation locate in the same complex and benefit simply from each other's presence. This is extremely similar to university agglomerations – colleges and universities that have no special relationship often benefit simply from having other institutions of higher education near them for easy exchange of ideas, resources, and opportunities between faculty and students. An extreme example of this is the Claremont Colleges, located in Claremont, California. At the Claremont Colleges, five undergraduate liberal arts colleges and two graduate institutions are all located right across the street from one another, thus enabling students from each college to interact with students from the other colleges socially and in clubs. Further, as the Claremont Colleges do cooperate with one another, students are able to cross-register in classes at the other colleges, eat in the other college's dining halls, and further benefit from enhanced shared resources like the Honnold-Mudd Library, Student Health Services, and Campus Safety. \n\nHowever, colleges and universities located near one another bears fruit not only for the colleges and universities themselves but also for the areas they are located in. Experts at the University of California, Merced and National Bureau of Economic Research have been able to quantify spillover effects from universities on their communities, finding that a \"a 10% increase in higher education spending increases local non-education sector labor income by about 0.8%\". Further, researchers at UC Berkeley also found that an increase in university researchers in a local labor market is correlated with an increase in the amount of patents granted in that area. In this way, many areas benefit from a large number of institutions of higher education within their borders. These benefits, however, often came come with their costs as a high number of students, faculty, and resources needed to support universities can put a strain on local governments. In the aforementioned city of Claremont, California, local officials have tried to raise sales taxes to level the tax burden in order to fund essential city services, as many college students do not pay taxes to the city but do shop in it. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1906849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906849", "title": "Carthamus", "text": "Carthamus\n\nThe genus Carthamus, the distaff thistles, includes plants in the thistle family. The group is native to Europe, North Africa, and parts of Asia. The flower has been used since ancient times in the Philippines, which it has been called \"kasubha\" by the Tagalog people.\n\nThe best known species is the safflower \"(Carthamus tinctorius).\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1906850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906850", "title": "Amravati district", "text": "Amravati district\n\nAmravati district is a district of Maharashtra state in central India. Amravati is the administrative headquarters of the district.\n\nThe district is situated between 20°32' and 21°46' north latitudes and 76°37' and 78°27' east longitudes. The district occupies an area of 12,235 km². The district is bounded by Betul District of Madhya Pradesh state to the north, and by the Maharashtra districts of Nagpur to the northeast, Chindwara district of Madhya Pradesh to the northeast Wardha to the east, Yavatmal to the south, Washim to the southwest, and Akola and Buldhana districts to the west.\n\nIn 1853, the present-day territory of Amravati district as a part of Berar Province was assigned to the British East India Company, following a treaty with the Nizam of Hyderabad. After the Company took over the administration of the province, it was divided into two districts. The present-day territory of the district became part of North Berar district, with headquarters at Buldhana. Later, the province was reconstituted and the territory of the present district became part of East Berar district, with headquarters at Amravati. In 1864, Yavatmal District (initially known as Southeast Berar district and later Wun district) was separated. In 1867, Ellichpur District was separated but in August, 1905, when the whole province was reorganized into six districts, it was again merged into the district. In 1903, it became part of the newly constituted province of Central Provinces and Berar. In 1956, Amravati district became part of Bombay State and after its bifurcation in 1960, it became part of Maharashtra state.\n\nThe climate is tropical and most people wear cotton clothes. In summer temperatures can go up to higher than .\n\nIn 2006 the Ministry of Panchayati Raj named Amravati one of the country's 250 most backward districts (out of a total of 640). It is one of the twelve districts in Maharashtra currently receiving funds from the Backward Regions Grant Fund Programme (BRGF).\n\nAmravati is the main growing region for the cotton and 'Tur' in ChandurRly, Dhamangaon, Tiosa, NandgaonKh.,Achalpur particularly. Ellachipur Sanman Chili pepper. Anjangaon Surji and Achalpur are known for growing betel leaves, piper longum, orange and banana. Warud, Morshi, Chandur bazar and Achalpur are known for growing Nagpuri oranges. Soyabean has become a popular kharip crop.\n\nThe Wardha River forms the eastern boundary of the district, and the eastern portion of the district lies within its watershed. The Purna River drains the southwestern portion of the district, while the northwest is drained by the Tapti River. Other important rivers are Shahanoor and Chandrabhaga.*Musali and Cherry are successfully introduced and cultivated now in Chikhaldara Hills. \n\nThe Purna rises near Bhainsdehi in Betul district of Madhya Pradesh in the Satpudas. After flowing for about 50 km in a general southerly and south-easterly direction enters the district. It travels across the district in a south-westerly direction dividing it into two halves, first through the Achalpur taluka and then along the boundary between the Amravati and Daryapur talukas. Finally, it turns due westwards forming the boundary of the district and continues further to join the Tapti near Muktainagar in Jalgaon district. The only significant left bank tributary of the Purna is the Pedhi. The first of the principal right bank tributaries is the Arna. The next is a small river known as the Bodi. The next tributary, the Chandrabhaga is a very important one, flowing in a general south-westerly direction to join the Purna. The principal right bank affluent of the Chandrabhaga is the Bhuleshwari. The westernmost tributary of the Purna of some significance within the district is the Shahanur, with its tributary, the Bordi.\n\nThe following are some of the other rivers in Amravati District, with their tributaries.\n\nThe district consists of six sub-divisions, which are further divided into 14 talukas. Amravati sub-division is divided into three talukas: Amravati, Bhatukali and Nandgaon Khandeshwar. Daryapur sub-division is further divided into two talukas: Anjangaon and Daryapur. Achalpur sub-division also consists of two talukas: Achalpur and Chandur Bazar. Morshi sub-division has also two talukas: Morshi and Warud. Dharni sub-division is also divided into two talukas: Dharni and Chikhaldara. Finally, Chandur (Railway) sub-division is divided into three taulkas: Chandur (Railway), Tiosa and Dhamangaon.\n\nThere are eight Vidhan Sabha constituencies in this district. Six of these, Badnera, Amravati, Teosa, Anjangaon-Daryapur (SC), Melghat (ST) and Achalpur, are part of Amravati Lok Sabha constituency. The other two constituencies, Dhamangaon Railway and Morshi, are part of Wardha Lok Sabha constituency.\n\nMajor towns include Achalpur, Paratwada, Anjangaon. Chandur railway , Dhamangaon Railway , Hiwarkhed, Chikhaldara, Kholapur, Warud, Morshi, Shendurjana Ghat, Chandurbazar, Daryapur, Nandgaon Khandeshwar, Dharni, Teosa. badnera, Nerpnglai\n\nAccording to the 2011 census Amravati district has a population of 2,888,445, roughly equal to the nation of Jamaica or the US state of Arkansas. This gives it a ranking of 131st in India (out of a total of 640). The district has a population density of . Its population growth rate over the decade 2001-2011 was 10.77%. Amravati has a sex ratio of 947 females for every 1000 males, and a literacy rate of 88.23%.\n\nAt the time of the 2011 Census of India, 66.83% of the population in the district spoke Marathi, 11.86% Urdu, 8.95% Hindi, 8.20% Korku, 1.85% Gondi and 1.09% Sindhi as their first language.\n\nMarathi is the official and the most spoken language in the district. The dialect spoken here is called Varhadi dialect. Deccani Urdu is also prominent among the Muslim community. Korku and Gondi languages are also spoken by a significant number of people.\n\nImportant railway stations are Badnera Junction and Amravati Main Terminal under Bhusawal-Badnera Section of Bhusawal Division of Central Railway. The other stations under meter gauge are Wan Road Dhulghat and Dabka. These are under Purna - Khandwa section of South Central Railway. The stations under narrow gauge are Achalpur, Anjangaon Surji and Daryapur under Narrow Gauge Branch lines viz Murtajapur-Achalpur of Bhusawal Division of Central Railway.\n\nAmravati - Narkhed line has been ready since January 2014. Railways are now available to travel from Narkhed to Bhusaval. Warud's railway station has been given the name Warud Orange City because it is the biggest exporter of oranges from all over India.\n\nThe Amravati - Chandur Bajar - Morshi - Warud Orange City - Narkher railway track is electrified.\n\nDue to this Amravati - Narkher railway line ; Railway network in Amravati district become strong. It serves three talukas and some villages also have station so people travel via railway towards Amravati, Akola, Bhusawal, Nashik and Mumbai.\n\nAmravati Airport is located at Belora, 15 kilometres south of Amravati city on NH-6 towards Akola.\n\n\n\n\n\nTilak Maharashtra Vidhyapith, Pune - Study Center Amravati \n\nH.V.P.M., Amravati\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1906854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906854", "title": "R/K selection theory", "text": "R/K selection theory\n\nIn ecology, \"r\"/\"K\" selection theory relates to the selection of combinations of traits in an organism that trade off between quantity and quality of offspring. The focus on either an increased quantity of offspring at the expense of individual parental investment of r-strategists, or on a reduced quantity of offspring with a corresponding increased parental investment of K-strategists, varies widely, seemingly to promote success in particular environments.\n\nThe terminology of \"r\"/\"K\"-selection was coined by the ecologists Robert MacArthur and E. O. Wilson in 1967 based on their work on island biogeography; although the concept of the evolution of life history strategies has a longer history (see e.g. plant strategies).\n\nThe theory was popular in the 1970s and 1980s, when it was used as a heuristic device, but lost importance in the early 1990s, when it was criticized by several empirical studies. A life-history paradigm has replaced the \"r\"/\"K\" selection paradigm but continues to incorporate many of its important themes.\n\nIn \"r\"/\"K\" selection theory, selective pressures are hypothesised to drive evolution in one of two generalized directions: \"r\"- or \"K\"-selection. These terms, \"r\" and \"K\", are drawn from standard ecological algebra as illustrated in the simplified of population dynamics:\n\nwhere \"N\" is the population, \"r\" is the maximum growth rate, \"K\" is the carrying capacity of the local environment, and \"dN/dt\", the derivative of \"N\" with respect to time \"t\", is the rate of change in population with time. Thus, the equation relates the growth rate of the population \"N\" to the current population size, incorporating the effect of the two constant parameters \"r\" and \"K\".\n(Note that decrease is negative growth.) The choice of the letter \"K\" came from the German \"Kapazitätsgrenze\" (capacity limit), while \"r\" came from \"rate\".\n\n\"r\"-selected species are those that emphasize high growth rates, typically exploit less-crowded ecological niches, and produce many offspring, each of which has a relatively low probability of surviving to adulthood (i.e., high \"r\", low \"K\"). A typical \"r\" species is the dandelion (genus \"Taraxacum\").\n\nIn unstable or unpredictable environments, \"r\"-selection predominates due to the ability to reproduce rapidly. There is little advantage in adaptations that permit successful competition with other organisms, because the environment is likely to change again. Among the traits that are thought to characterize \"r\"-selection are high fecundity, small body size, early maturity onset, short generation time, and the ability to disperse offspring widely.\n\nOrganisms whose life history is subject to \"r\"-selection are often referred to as \"r\"-strategists or \"r\"-selected. Organisms that exhibit \"r\"-selected traits can range from bacteria and diatoms, to insects and grasses, to various semelparous cephalopods and small mammals, particularly rodents. As with K-selection, below, the r/K paradigm (Differential K theory) has controversially been associated with human behavior and separately evolved populations.\n\nBy contrast, \"K\"-selected species display traits associated with living at densities close to carrying capacity and typically are strong competitors in such crowded niches, that invest more heavily in fewer offspring, each of which has a relatively high probability of surviving to adulthood (i.e., low \"r\", high \"K\"). In scientific literature, \"r\"-selected species are occasionally referred to as \"opportunistic\" whereas \"K\"-selected species are described as \"equilibrium\".\n\nIn stable or predictable environments, \"K\"-selection predominates as the ability to compete successfully for limited resources is crucial and populations of \"K\"-selected organisms typically are very constant in number and close to the maximum that the environment can bear (unlike \"r\"-selected populations, where population sizes can change much more rapidly).\n\nTraits that are thought to be characteristic of \"K\"-selection include large body size, long life expectancy, and the production of fewer offspring, which often require extensive parental care until they mature. Organisms whose life history is subject to \"K\"-selection are often referred to as \"K\"-strategists or \"K\"-selected. Organisms with \"K\"-selected traits include large organisms such as elephants, humans, and whales, but also smaller, long-lived organisms such as Arctic terns, parrots and eagles.\n\nAlthough some organisms are identified as primarily \"r\"- or \"K\"-strategists, the majority of organisms do not follow this pattern. For instance, trees have traits such as longevity and strong competitiveness that characterise them as \"K\"-strategists. In reproduction, however, trees typically produce thousands of offspring and disperse them widely, traits characteristic of \"r\"-strategists.\n\nSimilarly, reptiles such as sea turtles display both \"r\"- and \"K\"-traits: although sea turtles are large organisms with long lifespans (provided they reach adulthood), they produce large numbers of unnurtured offspring.\n\nThe \"r\"/\"K\" dichotomy can be re-expressed as a continuous spectrum using the economic concept of discounted future returns, with \"r\"-selection corresponding to large discount rates and \"K\"-selection corresponding to small discount rates.\n\nIn areas of major ecological disruption or sterilisation (such as after a major volcanic eruption, as at Krakatoa or Mount Saint Helens), \"r\"- and \"K\"-strategists play distinct roles in the ecological succession that regenerates the ecosystem. Because of their higher reproductive rates and ecological opportunism, primary colonisers typically are \"r\"-strategists and they are followed by a succession of increasingly competitive flora and fauna. The ability of an environment to increase energetic content, through photosynthetic capture of solar energy, increases with the increase in complex biodiversity as \"r\" species proliferate to reach a peak possible with \"K\" strategies.\n\nEventually a new equilibrium is approached (sometimes referred to as a climax community), with \"r\"-strategists gradually being replaced by \"K\"-strategists which are more competitive and better adapted to the emerging micro-environmental characteristics of the landscape. Traditionally, biodiversity was considered maximized at this stage, with introductions of new species resulting in the replacement and local extinction of endemic species. However, the Intermediate Disturbance Hypothesis posits that intermediate levels of disturbance in a landscape create patches at different levels of succession, promoting coexistence of colonizers and competitors at the regional scale.\n\nWhile usually applied at the level of species, \"r\"/\"K\" selection theory is also useful in studying the evolution of ecological and life history differences between subspecies, for instance the African honey bee, \"A. m. scutellata\", and the Italian bee, \"A. m. ligustica\". At the other end of the scale, it has also been used to study the evolutionary ecology of whole groups of organisms, such as bacteriophages.\n\nSome researchers, such as Lee Ellis, J. Philippe Rushton, and Aurelio José Figueredo, have applied \"r\"/\"K\" selection theory to various human behaviors, including crime, sexual promiscuity, fertility, IQ, and other traits related to life history theory. Rushton's work resulted in him developing \"differential \"K\" theory\" to attempt to explain many variations in human behavior across geographic areas, a theory which has been criticized by many other researchers. Other researchers have proposed that the evolution of human inflammatory responses is related to \"r\"/\"K\" selection.\n\nAlthough \"r\"/\"K\" selection theory became widely used during the 1970s, it also began to attract more critical attention. In particular, a review by the ecologist Stephen C. Stearns drew attention to gaps in the theory, and to ambiguities in the interpretation of empirical data for testing it.\n\nIn 1981, a review of the \"r\"/\"K\" selection literature by Parry demonstrated that there was no agreement among researchers using the theory about the definition of \"r\"- and \"K\"-selection, which led him to question whether the assumption of a relation between reproductive expenditure and packaging of offspring was justified. A 1982 study by Templeton and Johnson showed that in a population of \"Drosophila mercatorum\" under \"K\"-selection the population actually produced a higher frequency of traits typically associated with \"r\"-selection. Several other studies contradicting the predictions of \"r\"/\"K\" selection theory were also published between 1977 and 1994.\n\nWhen Stearns reviewed the status of the theory in 1992, he noted that from 1977 to 1982 there was an average of 42 references to the theory per year in the BIOSIS literature search service, but from 1984 to 1989 the average dropped to 16 per year and continued to decline. He concluded that \"r\"/\"K\" theory was a once useful heuristic that no longer serves a purpose in life history theory.\n\nMore recently, the panarchy theories of adaptive capacity and resilience promoted by C. S. Holling and Lance Gunderson have revived interest in the theory, and use it as a way of integrating social systems, economics and ecology.\n\nWriting in 2002, Reznick and colleagues reviewed the controversy regarding \"r\"/\"K\" selection theory and concluded that: \nAlternative approaches are now available both for studying life history evolution (e.g. Leslie matrix for an age-structured population) and for density-dependent selection (e.g. variable density lottery model).\n\n"}
{"id": "1906861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906861", "title": "Vicugna", "text": "Vicugna\n\nVicugna is a genus containing two South American camelids, the vicuña and the alpaca.\n\nPreviously thought to be descended from the guanaco, the alpaca was reclassified as part of \"Vicugna\" after a 2001 paper on alpaca DNA. The paper showed that the alpaca is descended from the vicuña, not the guanaco, though considerable cross-hybridization has taken place between domesticated llamas and alpacas.\n"}
{"id": "1906863", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906863", "title": "Icon (band)", "text": "Icon (band)\n\nIcon is an American heavy metal/glam metal band that formed in 1979, disbanding in 1990. Icon has fully reformed as of 2008, currently consisting of three-fifths of the classic lineup: Dan Wexler (guitar), Stephen Clifford (lead vocals), and John Aquilino (guitar), along with Dave Henzerling (bass) and Gary Bruzzese (drums).\n\nOriginally known as The Schoolboys in 1979 (maybe earlier), Icon was formed in 1981, in Phoenix, Arizona, United States, by high school friends Dan Wexler (guitar), Stephen Clifford (lead vocals) and Tracy Wallach (bass). They were joined by Dave Henzerling (guitar) and John Covington (drums). Schoolboys released an EP \"Singin' Shoutin\"' and had a few songs on compilation albums. In 1984, Icon was signed to Capitol Records. By this point, Henzerling and Covington had left the band and were replaced by John Aquilino (guitar) and Pat Dixon (drums) (former drummer for Loosely Tight).\n\nIn 1984, Icon released their self-titled debut, \"Icon\", and toured to support it. The tour set list featured quite a few new songs intended for the next album as well as a few Deep Purple (\"Highway Star\") and Judas Priest covers. In 1985, \"Night of the Crime\" was released, produced by Eddie Kramer, mixed by Ron Nevison and featuring the songwriting talent of Bob Halligan Jr. During the mixing of the album, vocalist Stephen Clifford decided to leave the band for personal reasons. Regrouping, the band tried out a few different vocalists, lost their record deal and released a local-only cassette; \"More Perfect Union\", featuring a polished pop-rock sound, a new singer (Jerry Harrison) and a keyboardist (Kevin Stoller). Although it was only released locally, it garnered enough attention to renew major-label interest in the group.\n\nIn 1989, \"Right Between the Eyes\" was released on Atlantic/Megaforce, with Jerry Harrison on vocals and Drew Bollmann on second guitar. A video for \"Taking My Breath Away\" was played on MTV's Headbangers' Ball. Following the release of \"Right Between the Eyes\" and a supporting tour in the US opening for Ace Frehley and in the UK for King's X, the later included David Lauser on drums (currently Sammy Hagar's drummer) replacing Dixon, Icon disbanded. Singer Harrison recorded with a new project called Harlequin. The other band members continued to be involved in music projects; guitarist Dan Wexler in particular wrote and recorded with Alice Cooper (who had performed backing vocals on \"Holy Man's War\" from \"Right Between the Eyes\"). In 1994, \"(An Even) More Perfect Union\"—an expanded version of \"A More Perfect Union\", including tracks recorded for potential release on \"Right Between the Eyes\"—was released on CD. Icon also did a project together with lead singer Randy Baker, founder of the original Strange Daze a Tribute to the Doors band which included a 4-song demo and performing live. According to Baker, the project was \"suggested by mutual management which in retrospect was a bad idea and lost me a record deal. As they were crashing and burning they took me with them.\"\n\nIn August 2008, Icon celebrated their reunion with a re-issue of a 1984 Bootleg Concert on DVD. Original members Wexler, Aquilino and Dixon, along with former member Dave Henzerling and new singer Scott Hammons had plans to record new material potentially for a new album.\n\nOn November 29, 2008, Icon opened up for Tesla at the Dodge Theatre in their home town of Phoenix, Arizona. They received a very warm reception. Copies of their 1984 DVD were signed and sold and the band promised that new material was on the way. 93.3 KDKB, the local rock station, plugged Icon as a band they love yet rarely play.\n\nIn May 2009, singer Scott Hammons decided to pursue a solo career so he decided to leave the band and was replaced with former Adler's Appetite vocalist Sheldon Tarsha, with whom the band played at Rocklahoma and opened for Queensrÿche in 2010.\nPrevious plans to record new songs—possibly for a new album—still exist. However, Tarsha has left the band and original singer Stephen Clifford has re-entered the picture.\n\nThere is a possibility both the original self-titled album \"Icon\" and \"Night of the Crime\" will be re-released in the near future.\n\nWexler participated in other musical projects after Icon's disbandment, most notably co-writing several tracks with Alice Cooper. Henzerling was one of the guitarists for Carmine Appice's band King Kobra; played on the Lizzy Borden album \"Master of Disguise\"; and later joined forces with Wexler and Dixon in the band Tomcats.\n\n\n\nVideo and Live sound recording by Paul Gasparola\n\n"}
{"id": "1906868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906868", "title": "Black Hebrew Israelites", "text": "Black Hebrew Israelites\n\nBlack Hebrew Israelites (also called Hebrew Israelites, Black Hebrews, Black Israelites, and African Hebrew Israelites) are groups of Black Americans who believe that they are the descendants of the ancient Israelites. To varying degrees, Black Hebrew Israelites incorporate certain aspects of the religious beliefs and practices of both Christianity and Judaism, though they have created their own interpretation of the Bible. Many choose to identify as Hebrew Israelites or Black Hebrews rather than Jews in order to indicate their claimed historic connections.\n\nBlack Hebrew Israelites are not associated with the mainstream Jewish community, and they do not meet the standards that are used to identify people as Jewish by the Jewish community. They are also outside the fold of mainstream Christianity, which considers Black Hebrew Israelism to be a heresy.\n\nThe Hebrew Israelite movement originated at the end of the 19th century, when Frank Cherry and William Saunders Crowdy both claimed to have received visions that African Americans are descendants of the Hebrews in the Bible; Cherry established the Church of the Living God, the Pillar Ground of Truth for All Nations in 1886 and Crowdy founded the Church of God and Saints of Christ in 1896.\n\nConsequently, Black Hebrew groups were founded in the United States during the late 19th and early 20th centuries, from Kansas to New York City, by both African Americans and West Indian immigrants. In the mid-1980s, the number of Black Hebrews in the United States was between 25,000 and 40,000. Black Hebrew Israelism is a non-homogenous movement with a number of groups, that have varying beliefs and practices. Various sects of Black Hebrew Israelism have been criticized by academics for their promotion of historical revisionism.\n\nAccording to the Anti-Defamation League (ADL), \"Some, but not all [sects of the Black Hebrew Israelites], are outspoken anti-Semites and racists.\" As of December 2019, the Southern Poverty Law Center \"lists 144 Black Hebrew Israelite organizations as black separatist hate groups because of their antisemitic and anti-white beliefs.\"\n\nThe origins of the Black Hebrew Israelite movement are found in Frank Cherry and William Saunders Crowdy, who both claimed that they had revelations in which they believed that God told them that African Americans are descendants of the Hebrews in the Christian Bible; Cherry established the \"Church of the Living God, the Pillar Ground of Truth for All Nations\" in 1886 and Crowdy founded the \"Church of God and Saints of Christ\" in 1896. The Church of God and Saints of Christ, originating in Kansas, retained elements of a messianic connection to Jesus.\n\nIn the late 19th century, their followers propagated the claim that they were the biological descendants of the Israelites, and during the following decades, many more Black Hebrew congregations were established. After World War I, for example, Wentworth Arthur Matthew, an immigrant from Saint Kitts, founded another Black Hebrew congregation in Harlem, claiming descent from the ancient Israelites. He called it the \"Commandment Keepers of the Living God.\" Similar groups selected elements of Judaism and adapted them within a structure similar to that of the Black church. He incorporated it in 1930 and moved the congregation to Brooklyn, where he later founded the Israelite Rabbinical Seminary, where Black Hebrew rabbis have been educated and ordained.\n\nThe group sometimes employs street preaching to promote their ideology. Sidewalk ministers sometimes employ provocation to advance a message that is often antisemitic, racist and xenophobic.\n\nDuring the late 19th and early 20th centuries, dozens of Black Hebrew organizations were established. In Harlem alone, at least eight such groups were founded between 1919 and 1931. The Church of the Living God, the Pillar Ground of Truth for All Nations is the oldest-known Black Hebrew group and the Church of God and Saints of Christ is one of the largest Black Hebrew organizations. The Commandment Keepers, founded by Wentworth Arthur Matthew in New York, are noted for their adherence to traditional Judaism. The African Hebrew Israelites of Jerusalem are widely known for having moved from the United States, primarily Chicago, to Israel in the late 20th century. Other Black Hebrew groups include the Israelite School of Universal Practical Knowledge, based in Philadelphia, and the Nation of Yahweh, based in Miami.\n\nThe oldest known Black Hebrew organization is the Church of the Living God, the Pillar Ground of Truth for All Nations. The group was founded by Frank Cherry in Chattanooga, Tennessee, in 1886, and it later moved to Philadelphia. Cherry, who was from the Deep South and had worked as a seaman and for the railroads before his ministry, taught himself Hebrew and Yiddish. Theologically, the Church of the Living God mixed elements of Judaism and Christianity, counting the Bible—including the New Testament—and the Talmud as essential scriptures.\n\nThe rituals of Cherry's flock incorporated many Jewish practices and prohibitions alongside some Christian traditions. For example, during prayer the men wore skullcaps and congregants faced east. In addition, members of the Church were not permitted to eat pork. Prayers were accompanied by musical instruments and gospel singing. Cherry died in 1963, when he was about 95 years old; his son, Prince Benjamin F. Cherry, succeeded him. Members of the church believed that he had temporarily left and would soon reappear in spirit in order to lead the church through his son.\n\nThe Church of God and Saints of Christ was established in Lawrence, Kansas, in 1896 by African-American William Saunders Crowdy. The group established its headquarters in Philadelphia in 1899, and Crowdy later relocated to Washington, D.C., in 1903. After Crowdy's death in 1908, the church continued to grow under the leadership of William Henry Plummer, who moved the organization's headquarters to its permanent location in Belleville, Virginia, in 1921.\n\nIn 1936, the Church of God and Saints of Christ had more than 200 \"tabernacles\" (congregations) and 37,000 members. Howard Zebulun Plummer succeeded his father and became head of the organization in 1931. His son, Levi Solomon Plummer, became the church's leader in 1975. The Church of God and Saints of Christ was led by Rabbi Jehu A. Crowdy, Jr., a great-grandson of William Saunders Crowdy, from 2001 until his death in 2016. Since 2016, it has been led by Phillip E. McNeil. As of 2005, the church had fifty tabernacles in the United States and dozens more in Africa.\n\nThe Church of God and Saints of Christ describes itself as \"the oldest African-American congregation in the United States that adheres to the tenets of Judaism\". Founded by American William Saunders Crowdy in Kansas in 1896, it teaches that all Jews were originally black, and that African Americans are descendants of the lost tribes of Israel. Members believe that Jesus was neither God nor the son of God, but rather an adherent of Judaism and a prophet. They also consider William Saunders Crowdy, their founder in Kansas, to be a prophet.\n\nThe Church of God and Saints of Christ synthesizes rituals from both Judaism and Christianity. They have adopted rites drawn from both the Old and New Testaments. Its Old Testament observances include the use of the Jewish calendar, the celebration of Passover, the circumcision of infant males, the commemoration of the Sabbath on Saturday, and the wearing of yarmulkes. Its New Testament rites include baptism (immersion) and footwashing, both of which have Old Testament origins.\n\nWentworth Arthur Matthew founded the Commandment Keepers Congregation in Harlem in 1919. Matthew was influenced by the non-black Jews he met as well as by Marcus Garvey and the Universal Negro Improvement Association and African Communities League. Garvey used the Biblical Jews in exile as a metaphor for black people in North America. One of the accomplishments of Garvey's movement was to strengthen the connection between black Americans and Africa, Ethiopia in particular. When Matthew later learned about the Beta Israel—Ethiopian Jews—he identified with them.\n\nToday the Commandment Keepers follow traditional Jewish practices and observe Jewish holidays. Members observe kashrut, circumcise newborn boys and celebrate Bar and Bat Mitzvahs, and their synagogue has a mechitza to separate men and women during worship.\n\nThe Commandment Keepers believe that they are descendants of Solomon and the Queen of Sheba. Matthew taught that \"the Black man is a Jew\" and \"all genuine Jews are Black men\", but he valued non-black Jews as those who had preserved Judaism over the centuries. Matthew maintained cordial ties with non-black Jewish leaders in New York and frequently invited them to worship at his synagogue.\n\nMatthew established the Ethiopian Hebrew Rabbinical College (later renamed the Israelite Rabbinical Academy) in Brooklyn. He ordained more than 20 rabbis, who went on to lead congregations throughout the United States and the Caribbean. He remained the leader of the Commandment Keepers in Harlem, and in 1962 the congregation moved to a landmark building on 123rd Street.\n\nMatthew died in 1973, sparking an internal conflict over who would succeed him as head of the Harlem congregation. Shortly before his death, Matthew named his grandson, David Matthew Doré, as the new spiritual leader. Doré was 16 years old at the time. In 1975, the synagogue's board elected Rabbi Willie White to be its leader. Rabbi Doré occasionally conducted services at the synagogue until the early 1980s, when White had Doré and some other members locked out of the building. Membership declined throughout the 1990s and by 2004, only a few dozen people belonged to the synagogue. In 2007 the Commandment Keepers sold the building, while various factions among former members sued one another.\n\nBesides the Harlem group, there are eight or ten Commandment Keeper congregations in the New York area, and others exist throughout North America as well as in Israel. Since 2000, seven rabbis have graduated from the Israelite Rabbinical Academy founded by Matthew.\n\nBen Ammi Ben-Israel established the African Hebrew Israelites of Jerusalem in Chicago, Illinois, in 1966, at a time when black nationalism was on the rise as a response to the Civil Rights Movement. In 1969, after a sojourn in Liberia, Ben Ammi and about 30 Hebrew Israelites moved to Israel. Over the next 20 years, nearly 600 more members left the United States for Israel. As of 2006, about 2,500 Hebrew Israelites live in Dimona and two other towns in the Negev region of Israel, where they are widely referred to as Black Hebrews. In addition, there are Hebrew Israelite communities in several major American cities, including Chicago, St. Louis, and Washington, D.C.\n\nThe Black Hebrews believe they are descended from members of the Tribe of Judah who were exiled from the Land of Israel after the Romans destroyed the Second Temple in 70 CE. The group incorporates elements of African-American culture into their interpretation of the Bible. They do not recognize rabbinical Jewish interpretations such as the Talmud. The Black Hebrews observe Shabbat and biblically ordained Jewish holidays such as Yom Kippur and Passover.\n\nMen wear \"tzitzit\" on their African print shirts, women follow the niddah (biblical laws concerning menstruation), and newborn boys are circumcised. In accordance with their interpretation of the Bible, the Black Hebrews follow a strictly vegan diet and only wear natural fabrics. Most men have more than one wife, and birth control is not permitted.\n\nWhen the first Black Hebrews arrived in Israel in 1969, they claimed citizenship under the Law of Return, which gives eligible Jews immediate citizenship. The Israeli government ruled in 1973 that the group did not qualify for automatic citizenship because they could not prove Jewish descent and had not undergone Orthodox conversion. The Black Hebrews were denied work permits and state benefits. The group accused the Israeli government of racist discrimination. In 1981, a group of American civil rights activists led by Bayard Rustin investigated and concluded that racism was not the cause of the Black Hebrews' situation. No official action was taken to return the Black Hebrews to the United States, but some individual members were deported for working illegally.\n\nSome Black Hebrews renounced their American citizenship in order to try to prevent more deportations. In 1990, Illinois legislators helped negotiate an agreement that resolved the Black Hebrews' legal status in Israel. Members of the group are permitted to work and they also have access to housing and social services. The Black Hebrews reclaimed their American citizenship and have received aid from the U.S. government, which helped them build a school and additional housing. In 2003 the agreement was revised, and the Black Hebrews were granted permanent residency in Israel.\n\nIn 2009, Elyakim Ben-Israel became the first Black Hebrew to gain Israeli citizenship. The Israeli government said that more Black Hebrews may be granted citizenship.\n\nThe Black Hebrews of Israel maintain a gospel choir, which tours throughout Israel and the United States. The group owns restaurants in several Israeli cities. In 2003 the Black Hebrews garnered public attention when singer Whitney Houston visited them in Dimona. In 2006, Eddie Butler, a Black Hebrew, was chosen by the Israeli public to represent Israel in the Eurovision Song Contest.\n\nIn late 2008, the Southern Poverty Law Center (SPLC) wrote that \"the extremist fringe of the Hebrew Israelite movement\" is black supremacist. It also wrote that the members of such groups \"believe that Jews are devilish impostors and ... openly condemn whites as evil personified, deserving only death or slavery\". The SPLC also wrote that \"most Hebrew Israelites are neither explicitly racist nor anti-Semitic and do not advocate violence\".\n\nThe Black Hebrew groups that are characterized as black supremacist by the SPLC include the Israelite School of Universal Practical Knowledge, the Nation of Yahweh and the Israelite Church of God in Jesus Christ. Also, the Anti-Defamation League has written that the \"12 Tribes of Israel\" website, which is maintained by a Black Hebrew group, promotes black supremacy.\n\nAs of December 2019, the Southern Poverty Law Center \"lists 144 Black Hebrew Israelite organizations as black separatist hate groups because of their antisemitic and anti-white beliefs.\"\n\nA 1999 FBI terrorism risk assessment report stated that \"violent radical fringe members\" of the Black Hebrew Israelite movement hold \"beliefs [that] bear a striking resemblance to the Christian Identity theology practiced by many white supremacists.\" It also wrote that \"the overwhelming majority of [Black Hebrew Israelites] are unlikely to engage in violence.\"\n\nOn December 10, 2019, two people who had expressed interest in the Black Hebrew Israelite movement, were killed in a shootout with police after killing a police detective at Bayview Cemetery and three people at the JC Kosher Supermarket in Jersey City, New Jersey; the Jewish co-owner of the grocery store, an employee, and a Jewish shopper. Authorities treated the incident as an act of domestic terrorism. Capers Funnye, who has been the rabbi for the past 26 years of the 200-member Beth Shalom B'nai Zaken Ethiopian Hebrew Congregation, condemned the attack and said that his community was \"gripped by sadness\" over \"the heinous actions of two disturbed individuals who cloaked themselves in anti-Semitism and hate-filled rhetoric\". He also criticized the media reports by saying that it was \"unfortunate that the media uses the term ‘Black Hebrew Israelites’ without distinction as if the description is a one size fits all and it is absolutely not!\" Funnye emphasized that \"we don’t want to be seen as some radical fringe group with a false narrative because we are black and profess Judaism; we are Torah-oriented Jews.\"\n\nOn December 28, 2019, a man with a machete attacked several Orthodox Jewish people during Hanukkah celebrations in a house in Monsey, New York. Authorities revealed the fact that his journals included what appeared to be a reference to Black Hebrew Israelites stating that \"Hebrew Israelites\" have taken from \"ebinoid Israelites\".\n\nAfrican American Christian apologetics organizations, such as the Jude 3 Project, have critiqued the theological and historical claims which have been presented by various Black Hebrew Israelite sects.\n\nZimbabwan novelist Masimba Musodza has stated that the doctrine which is taught by Black Hebrew Israelites \"force[s] their own ideas onto the text to promote their own agenda, which serves no purpose at all except to engender antisemitism in Black communities in western countries.\" The historian Josephus, as well as the theologians Emil Schürer and Friedrich Münter, wrote of Jewish slaves who were sold and served as labourers in Egypt and the Roman Empire, contradicting the Black Hebrew Israelite claim that Egypt is a metaphor for the Americas. Additionally, contrary to what is taught by Black Hebrew Israelites, no Kingdom of Judah existed in West Africa and the Middle Eastern state has no connection with the Kingdom of Whydah. Black Hebrew Israelites have been criticized for making historical revisionist claims which do not acknowledge the poverty that Jews experienced as immigrants in the United States.\n\nFran Markowitz, a Professor of Cultural Anthropology at the Ben-Gurion University of the Negev, writes that the Hebrew Israelite view of the transatlantic slave trade conflicts with historical accounts, as does the Hebrew Israelite belief that Socrates and Shakespeare were black.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1906877", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906877", "title": "Peter Kaestner", "text": "Peter Kaestner\n\nPeter G. Kaestner is a retired American diplomat and amateur ornithologist who most recently served as the chief of the Consular Section at the U.S. Consulate General in Frankfurt, Germany. From May 2013 to 2014 he was the Senior Civilian Representative in Northern Afghanistan, based at Camp Marmal, Mazar-e Sharif. From 2009 to late 2012 he was a senior inspector in the Office of Inspector General of the U.S. State Department. From 2006 to 2009 he was the Minister Counselor for Consular Affairs of the American Embassy in New Delhi, India. As Minister Counselor, he oversaw consular operations in New Delhi and the U.S. Consulates Generals in Mumbai (Bombay), Chennai (Madras), Hyderabad, and Kolkata (Calcutta). He retired from the Foreign Service in August 2016.\n\nBorn in Baltimore, Maryland, in 1953 to Benjamin Henry Kaestner, Jr. and Alice (Reed) Kaestner, he is the middle child of 10 siblings and step-siblings. After spending two years in the Peace Corps in Zaire, Kaestner entered the Foreign Service in 1980, and has been assigned in the past to India, Egypt, Brazil, Guatemala, New Guinea, the Solomon Islands, Colombia, Malaysia, and Namibia. In 1990 he had his first child with his wife Kimberly Vreeland Kaestner, Katherine Kaestner. In 1991 the couple had a second child, Laurel Kaestner.\n\nAn avid birder, he has taken advantage of his position as an international diplomat to follow his hobby more avidly than is normally possible. By 1986, he had become the first birder to see a representative of each bird family in the world, though the list of bird families recognized by science has changed considerably since then. (He has stayed current, and has seen an example of all 239 living families of birds.)\n\nIn 1989, while on a birding expedition near Bogota, Colombia, where he was a U.S. consular officer, he discovered a species new to science, the Cundinamarca Antpitta (\"Grallaria kaestneri\"), which was subsequently named after him. (\"See\" Formicariidae.) With a life list of 9,290 (IOC 9.1 1) / 9,200 birds (using ebird.org where he is the world number 1 in terms of species seen), Kaestner remains one of the most prolific birders in the world, surpassed only by five others (per surfbirds.com), such as Hugh Buck and the late Jon Hornbuckle.\n\n"}
{"id": "1906880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906880", "title": "Rhizopus", "text": "Rhizopus\n\nRhizopus is a genus of common saprophytic fungi on plants and specialized parasites on animals. They are found in a wide variety of organic substances\n, including \"mature fruits and vegetables\", jellies, syrups, leather, bread, peanuts, and tobacco. They are multicellular. Some \"Rhizopus\" species are opportunistic agents of human zygomycosis (fungal infection) and can be fatal. \"Rhizopus\" infections may also be a complication of diabetic ketoacidosis. This widespread genus includes at least eight species.\n\"Rhizopus\" species grow as filamentous, branching hyphae that generally lack cross-walls (i.e., they are coenocytic). They reproduce by forming asexual and sexual spores. In asexual reproduction, sporangiospores are produced inside a spherical structure, the sporangium. Sporangia are supported by a large apophysate columella atop a long stalk, the sporangiophore. Sporangiophores arise among distinctive, root-like rhizoids. In sexual reproduction, a dark zygospore is produced at the point where two compatible mycelia fuse. Upon germination, a zygospore produces colonies that are genetically different from either parent.\n\n\nVarious species, including \"R. stolonifer\", may cause soft rot in sweet potatoes and \"Narcissus.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1906888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906888", "title": "Pacifastacus", "text": "Pacifastacus\n\nPacifastacus is a genus of crayfish native to western North America (USA and Canada), containing the following six species (DD = Data Deficient; CR = Critically Endangered; LC = Least Concern; EX = Extinct):\n"}
{"id": "1906889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906889", "title": "Threesome (1994 film)", "text": "Threesome (1994 film)\n\nThreesome is a 1994 American comedy erotic drama film, written and directed by Andrew Fleming and starring Lara Flynn Boyle, Stephen Baldwin and Josh Charles. It is an autobiographical comedy mixed in with some social commentary, and is based on the college memories of Fleming. The film was given an \"R\" rating by the Motion Picture Association of America.\n\nDue to an administrative error two male college students, the shy and intellectual Eddy (Josh Charles) and the All-American jock Stuart (Stephen Baldwin), end up with a female roommate. The university thought that Alex (Lara Flynn Boyle) was a man (based on her name) and thus the three students are forced to live with each other until the university can move Alex to a female residence hall.\n\nAlex falls in love and tries unsuccessfully to seduce Eddy, who is gay; Eddy falls in love with Stuart; and Stuart is in love with Alex. The trio become good friends and scare off anyone who tries to seduce the other. Eventually, Alex, Stuart and Eddy agree to have an actual threesome that seems to destroy the friendship, and raises the possibility that Alex might have become pregnant.\n\nAfter the threesome, they start to drift apart. Three weeks later the semester ends; Alex moves to an apartment, and Eddy gets a single dorm. Eddy (who acts as the film's narrator) eventually finds a boyfriend, Stuart finds happiness in a monogamous relationship with a woman, and Alex remains single. While they now only see each other for lunch occasionally, they do not seem to regret the friendship they had while in college.\n\n\nUpon release, the film received negative reviews. The review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes reported that 28% of critics gave \"Threesome\" positive reviews, based on 25 reviews, with an average rating of 4.41/10. The site's consensus reads, \"\"Threesome\"s titillating title belies a dreadfully dull drama whose attractive stars are handily outmatched by a shallow script\". Peter Travers' review for \"Rolling Stone\" magazine reads, \"We're supposed to get all teary when kinkiness threatens to break up a friendship that was hard to swallow in the first place. There's lots of glossy cinematography, courtesy of Alexander Gruszynski, as the three lovers wander the campus separately, looking contemplative. Now there's a laugh. Eddy, a film student, actually makes reference to François Truffaut's ménage à trois classic, \"Jules and Jim\". Eddy, you wish.\" Roger Ebert gave the film three stars and wrote \"The dialogue is really the film's strongest element. The three actors are all smart, and able to reflect the way kids sometimes use words, even very bold words, as a mask for uncertainty and shyness.\"\n\nIn 2001, a DVD of the film was released with some special features: a director's audio commentary, an alternate ending, various language subtitles and cast talent files.\n"}
{"id": "1906891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906891", "title": "Scutigera", "text": "Scutigera\n\nScutigera is a centipede genus in the family Scutigeridae.\n\nMember of the genus have pseudofaceted eyes. This type of eye consists of a cluster of numerous ocelli on each side of the head, organised in a way that resembles a true compound eye, a type of eye found in arthropods. Most myriapods bear stemmata - that is, single lensed eyes which evolved by the reduction of a compound eye. However, the genus \"Scutigera\" has secondarily re-evolved a compound eye composed of repeated stemmata. These appear to grow in rows which are inserted between existing rows of ocelli.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1906892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906892", "title": "American Lebanese Syrian Associated Charities", "text": "American Lebanese Syrian Associated Charities\n\nThe American Lebanese Syrian Associated Charities (ALSAC) is the fundraising and awareness organization for St. Jude Children's Research Hospital. Its sole mission is to raise the funds and awareness necessary to operate and maintain St. Jude. \nALSAC is the largest healthcare related charity in the United States. The National Executive Office is located in Memphis, Tennessee. ALSAC also has over 30 local fundraising offices located in cities throughout the United States that hold over 30,000 fundraising events annually.\n\nAs of 2017, St. Jude Children's Research Hospital requires more than $2.4 million in operating costs each day, and public contributions provide more than 75 percent of the funds necessary to operate the hospital. Only 14% of the money to operate the hospital comes from insurance recoveries and 9% comes from grants.\n\nTo cover these costs, ALSAC has been raising more than $1 billion annually for the hospital through its more than 30,000 fund-raising activities. These include the FedEx St. Jude Classic, which is a PGA Tour event and one of the most visible fund-raising events for the hospital. Other fund-raising programs include the St. Jude Math-A-Thon, Up 'til Dawn, direct mailings, radiothons and television marketing.\n\nSt. Jude also has a merchandise catalog called the Hope Catalog. The catalog contains everything from shirts to office items, and from patient art to \"Give Thanks\" wristbands.\n\nOne of the hospital's most recent and successful fund-raising efforts has been the Dream Home Giveaway. The giveaway allows contest entrants to reserve tickets for $100 each to qualify to win homes valued up to $500,000. The Dream Home Giveaway, one of the largest national fund-raising programs, is conducted in cities across the United States.\n\nIn November 2004, St. Jude launched its inaugural Thanks and Giving campaign which encourages consumers to help raise funds at participating retailers by adding a donation at checkout or by purchasing specialty items to benefit St. Jude. The campaign is supported by network television spots, advertisements in major publications, featured content on the TODAY show, interactive marketing on AOL and a movie trailer that runs on 20,000 screens nationwide.\n\nSt. Jude has been named one of two International Philanthropic Projects of Epsilon Sigma Alpha International, a women's service sorority. Since 1972, ESA has raised more than $200 million for St. Jude.\n\nFrom 2013 to 2016, 81 cents of every dollar received has supported the research and treatment at St. Jude. In FY2016, 72% of ALSAC and St. Jude expenses were allocated to program services (33.3% patient care, 30.8% research, 7.5% education and training).\n\nThe above statement conflates ALSAC and St. Jude, however. More precisely, as a separate entity, ALSAC's FY2016 IRS Form 990 for FYE 6/30/2016 shows that of the $1.156 billion of Fundraising Revenue (that is, not including investment returns from the nearly $4.0 billion \"Fund\" that ALSAC has accumulated), only $807 million was granted to the St. Jude Hospital. This represents only 69.8% of Fundraising Revenue to St. Jude for FY2016 (FYE 6/30/2016). Total ALSAC Revenue for FY2016 (FYE 6/30/2016) was $1.260 billion; this includes Fundraising Revenue of $1.156 billion, Investment Returns of $104 million, and Other Revenue of $26 million. Using ALSAC Total Revenue of $1.260 billion, St. Jude Hospital received 64% of ALSAC Revenue in FY2016 (FYE 6/30/2016).\n"}
{"id": "1906894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906894", "title": "Christine Hart", "text": "Christine Hart\n\nChristine Hart (born February 3, 1950) is a former politician in Ontario, Canada. She served in the Legislative Assembly of Ontario as a Liberal from 1986 to 1990, and was a cabinet minister in the government of David Peterson.\n\nHart was born in Halifax, Nova Scotia. Her father was a Court of Appeal judge. She graduated from the law school at the University of Toronto in 1973 and worked for law firms Weir and Foulds, Morris/Rose/Ledgett and Lerners in Toronto. At the time of entering public life in 1986, Hart was known as one of Canada's experts in transportation law.\n\nShe was elected to the Ontario legislature in a by-election, held on April 17, 1986 in the Toronto riding of York East. Hart defeated her closest opponent, Progressive Conservative Gina Brannan, by 1,391 votes in a riding formerly held by the PCs. She was re-elected by a much greater margin in the 1987 provincial election.\n\nHart was appointed Minister of Culture and Communications on August 2, 1989. Prior to that she served her apprenticeship as Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister of Health (Murray Elston, 1986), the Minister of the Environment (Jim Bradley, 1987) and the Treasurer (Robert Nixon, 1988). She resigned on June 4, 1990 over a possible conflict of interest with a telecommunications company that had donated to her election campaign over which her ministry had influence.\n\nThe Liberals were defeated by the New Democratic Party in the 1990 provincial election. Hart was defeated by New Democrat candidate Gary Malkowski by 789 votes.\n\nFollowing the 1990 election, Hart continued to practice commercial and regulatory law and became accredited as a mediator (Harvard) and facilitator. In 1994 she was tapped to lead the Ontario Supreme Court's Alternative Dispute Resolution Pilot Project, which successfully provided an alternative to trial-based civil litigation, resolving more than half of the cases sent to it, before examinations for discovery. Hart joined KPMG as a partner in 1996, and in May 1997, she became president of KPMG Conflict Solutions Inc., a company specializing in conflict management services. In 1998 Hart founded Accord/hart & associates inc., a firm offering a comprehensive conflict management services across Canada, and she continues as its president resolving business and governance conflicts.\n\nThroughout her career, Hart has been an author and a teacher. Published works include \"Bypass Court: A Dispute Resolution Handbook\" with Genevieve Chornenki (5th ed., 2015)and \"Freight Claims in Plain English\", with Bill Augello (1995). She has taught transportation, regulatory, environmental, ADR, and governance subjects in the Bar Admission Course, for the Law Society, the Ontario Bar Association, and continues to teach new judges how to mediate through the National Judicial Institute.\n\nHart has actively served as a Director and Governor of a range of not-for-profit organizations for more than 30 years. Her long-standing interest in best governance practices led her to enroll and graduate from (March, 2005) the University of Toronto Rotman School of Management's Director's Education Program, becoming an accredited Corporate Director in June, 2005. She is currently a member of the boards of the Centre for Addiction and Mental Health (CAMH) and the General Insurance OmbudService. Previous Board experience includes the Greater Toronto Airports Authority (GTAA), Sheridan College, Roots of Empathy, Goodwill Toronto, Kingsway College School, Canadian Stage Company, Canadian Psychiatric Research Foundation, CNIB Library, Leaside Arthritis Society, and the Ontario Bar Association.\n\nFrom 2011 to 2016, Hart was a Board Member of Goodwill Toronto, until she abruptly resigned along with the rest of the Board.\n"}
{"id": "1906906", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906906", "title": "Brocchinia", "text": "Brocchinia\n\nBrocchinia is a genus of the botanical family Bromeliaceae, and is the sole genus of the subfamily Brocchinioideae, containing 20 species. The genus is named for Giovanni Battista Brocchi, Italian naturalist (1772–1826). \"Brocchinia\" species are native primarily to the ancient Guayana Shield in southern Venezuela and Guyana, with some species extending into Colombia and northern Brazil. Its species are generally restricted to areas of sand and sandstone of the Roraima Formation; a few occur on granite.\n\nBased on chloroplast DNA sequence variation, \"Brocchinia\" appears to be sister to all other bromeliads. Calibration of the molecular family tree of bromeliads against the known ages of various fossil monocots suggests that \"Brocchinia\" lineage diverged from other bromeliads nearly 20 million years ago, and that some of the living species of \"Brocchinia\" began diverging from each other soon thereafter. The next lineage to diverge from other bromeliads included \"Lindmania\" and \"Connellia\", which are also endemic to the Guayana Shield; at least one other subfamily Navioideae is also almost entirely restricted to that region. Consequently, it is quite likely that the family as a whole arose in the Guayana Shield. Previously, \"Brocchinia\" was thought to be a member of the bromeliad subfamily Pitcairnioideae, based on its possession of winged seeds like those seen in other members of that group. This view has now been overturned after the recognition that Pitcairnioideae as originally circumscribed more than a century ago represents several morphologically similar but independently derived groups that share only ancestral (plesiomorphic) characters, not true synapomorphies (shared derived characters).\n\n\"Brocchinia\" has undergone a spectacular adaptive radiation in mechanisms of nutrient capture, apparently in response to the unusually infertile, heavily leached substrates of the Guayana Shield. At least two species, \"Brocchinia reducta\" and \"B. hechtioides\", appear to be carnivorous. Like most species of \"Brocchinia\" – and indeed, of many other bromeliad genera – these two species impound rain water in a tank formed by tightly overlapping leaves arranged in a basal rosette. In these species, however, the leaves are nearly vertical, their inner surfaces are covered with fine wax that readily exfoliates, the tank fluid is highly acid (pH 3.0) and emits a sweet, nectar-like odor, and the tank itself is full of the dead remains of ants (\"B. reducta\") or bees and wasps (\"B. hechtioides\"). Recently, it has been shown that at least \"B. reducta\" secretes a phosphatase into its tanks.\n\nAnother species, \"Brocchinia acuminata\", is ant-fed myrmecophyte, apparently depending in part on nutrients and dead nestmates dropping into the tank from ants that live among the swollen, achlorophyllous leaf bases. The facultative epiphyte \"B. tatei\" – together with the tree-like \"B. micrantha\" with its massive, gutter-like leaf axils that hold liters of rainwater – captures a great deal of falling vegetable debris. One terrestrial population of \"B. tatei\" was discovered with heterocystous cyanobacteria in its tanks, suggesting nitrogen fixation.\n\nThe earliest divergent members of the genus – including \"Brocchinia prismatica\" in the Prismatica clade, and such species as \"B. melanacra\" and \"B. vestita\" in the Maguirei clade – lack tanks entirely and appear to depend solely on soil nutrients. Acquisition of the tank habit seems likely to have been the key innovation driving the evolution of specialized mechanisms of nutrient capture in \"Brocchinia\", and is associated with thin leaf cross-sections and the later evolution of carnivory, ant-fed myrmecophily, epiphytism, and N fixation in the Acuminata and Reducta clades. Each of the nutritionally specialized species have relatively large areas of live trichomes on the leaf bases that can absorb amino acids at high rates. Tanks and absorptive trichomes were later lost secondarily in \"Brocchinia steyermarkii\", a terrestrial species common in wet sandy areas in the Gran Sabana. \"Brocchinia melanacra\" is especially adapted to ground fires, with highly sclerotized leaf tips that protect that single bud in unexpanded leaves but appear to be useless (often dangling limply in the breeze) in fully expanded leaves. \"Brocchinia serrata\", a highly aberrant taxon with tough, serrate leaves that is found only on a few mesetas in Colombia, has now been shown to be completely unrelated and has been described as the sole member of a new genus \"Sequencia\", with its name reflecting its initial recognition based on DNA sequence data. The ecology of the dwarf species – \"Brocchinia cataractarum, B. delicatula, B. rupestris\" – remain enigmatic.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1906911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906911", "title": "List of state highways in North Dakota", "text": "List of state highways in North Dakota\n\nThe state highways in North Dakota are the state highways owned and maintained by the North Dakota Department of Transportation (NDDOT). North Dakota is a state located in the Midwestern region of the United States, along the Canadian border. The state is bordered by Manitoba and Saskatchewan to the north, Minnesota to the east, South Dakota to the south, and Montana to the west.\n\nUntil 2016 North Dakota highway signage had an \"N\" and a \"D\" in the top corners and a Native American profile, based on Lakota policeman Marcellus Red Tomahawk; since 2016 the marker has had \"North Dakota\" on a black background, the state in outline, and the highway number within the state outline. This transition to new signs is a slow process that will take years before the old signs are completely out of commission. The state will be replacing the old signs as needed, so both versions can currently be seen while driving on North Dakota roads. \n\nAccording to NDDOT, this change was made for a number of reasons. These include the department's centennial celebration, to demonstrate the significant spending to improve North Dakota roads in the past few years, and to keep uniformity across the United States. According to an NDDOT representative, \"a number of different states use their state outline or symbol on the highway signs.\" However, many states use geometric shapes or silhouettes of state symbols for their highway markers, which leads some North Dakota residents to believe NDDOT's decision to change the marker design was done to satisfy the political correctness movement.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1906918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906918", "title": "John Danzenbaker", "text": "John Danzenbaker\n\nJohn Danzenbaker (April 11, 1919 – July 14, 2008) was a birdwatcher credited with 7,535 species on his Life List when he died on July 14, 2008. His lifelong passion for finding and studying birds was interrupted by World War II. John served in the US Army from 1942 to 1964. He was wounded twice during the Invasion of Normandy. He later served in England, France, Japan, Korea, and Iran and retired as a Lt. Colonel. John was a Fellow of the Delaware Valley Ornithological Society and a member of Atlantic Audubon and Friends of Forsythe. His travels in search of birds took him to 70 countries. When not traveling, John conducted field surveys for the International Shorebird Surveys (ISS). He is mentioned in the book by Dan Koeppel.\n\n"}
{"id": "1906920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906920", "title": "Envirothon", "text": "Envirothon\n\nNCF-Envirothon is an annual environmentally themed academic competition for high school aged students organized by the NCF-Envirothon a program of the National Conservation Foundation. The competition is held by the United States and Canada on a regional, state, and bi-national level. Envirothon combines in-class and hands-on environmental education in a competition setting which involves a problem-solving presentation as well as written field tests. The competition tests students on five core subjects- aquatic ecology, forestry, soils and land use, wildlife- along with a fifth annually-changing subtopic which focuses on relevant environmental issues. Currently, roughly 500,000 students from forty-five U.S. states and nine Canadian provinces/territories participate in the competition.\n\nStates and provinces across the United States and Canada each have their own local competitions from which the winning high school team earns the privilege of representing their state/province at the NCF-Envirothon competition, held each summer in a different U.S. state or Canadian province. In areas with a considerable number of teams, subdivisions such as county, regional, or district competitions are also held. Teams must win these intermediary competitions in order to move on to the state/province levels.\n\nThe NCF-Envirothon is a 501(c)3 Nonprofit organization headquartered in Washington,D.C. Coordinating the delivery of the North American competition, the organization also relies heavily on volunteers across North America to advise individual teams from each participating state and province. Governing the program is the National Conservation Foundation (NCF) Executive, along with a NCF-Envirothon Operating Committee which is made up of representatives from participating states and provinces.\n\nEnvirothon is sponsored by the National Conservation Foundation, the National Association of Conservation Districts, the United States Forest Service, and the Natural Resources Conservation Service.\nIndividual teams are often sponsored by school clubs or classes, local businesses and governments, or 4H and other such non-scholastic organizations.\n\nCompetition participants are generally teams of five students with one to two team advisers. Home-schoolers can also take part as their own team.\nStates and provinces across the United States and Canada each have their own local competitions from which the winning high school team earns the privilege of representing their state/province at the North American Envirothon Competition, held each summer in a different U.S. state or Canadian province. In regions with a considerable number of teams, competitions on subdivision, county, regional, or district levels are also held. Teams must win these intermediary competitions in order to move on to the state/province levels. At the North American Competition, teams that rank first through tenth receive prizes and scholarships of various values.\n\nCompetition week at the NCF-Envirothon level includes various workshops, field trips, and seminars led by professionals and educators for both the students and their advisors. Most of these outings are linked to the current issue topic and provide information on the area in which the competition is being held.\n\nDuring the competition, each team must complete five written field tests, each dealing with a different topic. These tests consist of various question types, including identifications and hands-on assessments. Each team must also prepare an oral presentation on the current issue topic, which the team presents to a panel of judges. An important element of the competition is the understanding that each topic is interrelated, and understanding human effects on the environment and how human activities connect with ecosystem functions. Each test is scored out of 100 points, with the presentation being scored out of 200 points. The team with the highest cumulative total of points at the end of the scoring is the winning team. Recognition is also given to teams with the highest scoring in each of the five categories.\n\nThe location of the North American competition is determined based on a regional map that separates North America into five general regions: Far West, Mid-West, Southeast, Northeast, and Far North. The host college or university is usually located in a different region than that of the year preceding it. For example, a competition (2013) was held in at Montana State University in Bozeman, Montana in the Far West.\n\nEach field test dealing with one of five competition topics requires both theoretical understandings and hand-on skills such as identification and chemical testing. Each topic also has a degree of relatedness to one another, which is sometimes considered in theoretical-based test questions.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nIn 1979 the Pennsylvania Soil and Water Conservation Districts set up the Environmental Olympics, later renamed Enviro-Olympics, to encourage interest in environmental issues through hands-on competition. Expanding rapidly to include forty conservation districts by 1987, it gained attention from other states, and in 1988, the program became the National Envirothon, with participation from Pennsylvania, Massachusetts, and Ohio. In 1992 Nova Scotia became the first Canadian province to join the competition. The competition was sponsored by various state, local, and provincial conservation programs and associations until 1997 when Canon Inc. began its support of the program, with local sponsors still supporting lower level competitions. In 1999 Canon became the title sponsor of the competition between the U.S. states and Canadian provinces, with the competition being renamed the \"Canon Envirothon.\" It is currently referred to as the \"NCF-Envirothon.\"\n\nHosts and top-five competition place winners from the past thirteen North American Envirothon competitions:\n\n"}
{"id": "1906921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906921", "title": "Hingham High School", "text": "Hingham High School\n\nHingham High School is a co-ed public high school serving grades 9 through 12 for the town of Hingham, Massachusetts, United States. It is located on Union Street near Hingham Center. This school was ranked number 69 on \"Newsweek\" 's 2012 list of the Best High Schools in America. In 2014, Hingham High School was ranked as one of the top 50 public high schools in the state of Massachusetts. At the end of the 2018-2019 school year, one hallway of the school set ablaze due to an electronic that was left on overnight. The school colors are red and white.\n\nAround 2005 the school received a history teacher who was fluent in Mandarin Chinese. The school began teaching the Chinese language around that time. In 2009, the school was awarded a Blue Ribbon by the United States Department of Education for academic excellence. In 2015, Hingham High was awarded the Green Ribbon by the United States Department of Education for its commitment to protecting the environment, reducing environmental impact and\nutility costs, and providing environmental education.\n\nHingham High School is the only High School in the town of Hingham. The total enrollment into the school is 1,128. There are 292 students in the 9th grade, 289 students in the 10th grade, 262 students in the 11th grade, and 278 students in the 12th grade. It is made up of 51 percent male and 49 percent female. the minority enrollment is 7 percent, and the white enrollment is 93 percent. There are 77 full-time teachers.\n\nThe AP participation rate at Hingham High School is 46 percent. Based on state exit exams and internationally available exams on college level course work such as AB and IB exams, 99 percent of the students were proficient in English, 95 percent were proficient in Mathematics, and the college readiness index is 44.9. There are many clubs offered at Hingham High School such as Best Buddies, Drama club, Drivers Education, Finance Club, and Student Council. The Best Buddies program at Hingham High School is an important club to their community. It is a club that allows students with intellectual and developmental disabilities to get one on one friendships for other students at the school.\n\n\n"}
