{"id": "1854133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854133", "title": "Sines", "text": "Sines\n\nSines () is a Portuguese city of Setúbal District, the Alentejo region and subregion of the Alentejo coast, with about 18,298 inhabitants (2015 INE). It is the largest and the first port area of Portugal and the main city industrial port logistics in Portugal and the birthplace of fifteenth-century explorer Vasco da Gama.\n\nIt is the seat of a municipality with 203.30 km ² of area and 18,598 inhabitants (2015 INE), divided into two parishes. The municipality is bordered to the north and east by the municipality of Santiago do Cacém, south and west by Odemira has coastline on the Atlantic Ocean. The coastline of the city, south of São Torpes, is one part of the natural parks of Southwest Alentejo and Vicentine Coast Natural Park.\n\nVestiges of a few settlements have today been discovered in archaeological sites, such as Palmeirinha and Quitéria, that attest to the age of human settlements in Sines. Arnaldo Soledade (1981) noted that these Visigoths, identified as \"Cinetos\", may have been the original civilization that gave rise to the community, suggesting the local toponymy may have derived from this; \"Cinetos\", to Cines and, finally, Sines. Although this tribes lineage is not clearly defined, Soledade goes on to refer to the construction of a castro where the current Castle stands.\n\nThe Punics are thought to have also had a presence in the area; a Punic artifact, the Tesouro do Gaio was unearthed in 1966, and is on display in the \"Museu de Sines\" (). Discovered in May 1966, the 'treasure' was unearthed by a local farmer, Francisco da Silva Campos, who was tilling his land to plant corn, and discovered a schist tomb with women's jewellery in his plot of land in Herdade do Gaio (12.5 km southeast of Sines, 7 km from the coast and 275m from Ribeira de Morgavel).\n\nBetween 1966 and 1967, investigator José Miguel da Costa discovered several of these Punic graves, but all showing evidence of early tomb raiding. While the jewellery was determined to be Punic in origin, the symbolism on the artefacts were characterized as Egyptian. On the island of Pessegueiro, there is also evidence of Ibero-Punic artefacts discovered under the Roman port, discovered by archeologists Carlos Tavares da Silva and Joaquina Soares (1981). Roman occupation brought the destruction of many of these artefacts associated with the Iron Age.\n\nThe Romans used Sines as a port and industrial centre; the bay of Sines was used as port by the civitas of Miróbriga and the canal on the island of Pessegueiro is linked to Arandis (Garvão). During Rome's occupation, Sines and the island of Pessegueiro, were poles within an industrialized fishing industry which included salting fish. The Roman centres were thought to have been at Praça Tómas Ribeiro, as well as the area around Monte Chaos in Feteira Cima (although little explored archaeologically). In the fields of Quitéria, Carlos Tavares da Silva and Joaquina Soares (1981) investigated the remains of a 1st-century \"villa\", where the remnants of cobblestone streets and a hypocaust were discovered.\n\nIn 1961, José Miguel da Costa, during excavations around the Castle of Sines, discovered Roman \"fishing factories\", and a ceramics kiln to produce amphorae for salted fish, both dating back to the 1st and 2nd centuries. Sine's toponymy is also Roman in origin, but may refer to two terms (both applicable): the term \"sinus\", which means \"bay\"; or an alternate meaning for \"curve\", and may refer to the curvature of the Sines Cape, as seen from Monte Chãos.\n\nDuring the Middle Ages, the area of Sines was occupied by the Visigoths and later sacked by Moors. There are many more examples of Visigoth-era carved stones (7th century) throughout Sines. Evidence from an archaeological excavation of the Sines castle discovered that many of the walls of the old building were constructed from the rocks used in the construction of Roman-era monuments, such as a portion of a pedestal of a statue of Mars (which was assumed to have been part of a larger square in the Roman town before the construction of the basilica). The basilica itself likely existed on the site of the current Matriz Church, whose baptistery is of Visigothic origin. The Moors likely sacked the settlement in the 7th century; this marked a period of decline in the area, indicating a period when the ancient settlement was abandoned. Yet, although the few inhabitants lived in the zone, Moorish ships regularly patrolled the waters, until the 13th century, when Afonso III conquered the region.\n\nThe area regained much of its importance at the beginning of the 8th century, when fishermen returned to the waters around Sines. Re-settlement along the coast was initiated by the Order of Santiago da Espada, who administered the lands under the reign of Afonso III. Sines obtained administrative autonomy from Santiago do Cacém on 24 November 1362, when Pedro I elevated Sines to the status of villa. He later preoccupied himself with the coastal defense of the region, establishing the conditions for the construction of Sine's Castle, already protected by elements of the Visigothic wall. The castle in Sines was constructed during the first half of the 15th century. Like Setúbal, but contrary to what happened in Santiago do Cacém or Palmela, the castle was constructed to defend the wealth of the local merchants, indicating a new economic and social order, with the ascension of the bourgeoisie.\n\nDuring the \"Portuguese Interregnum\" and 1383–1385 Crisis, the bourgeoisie and nobles of Sines were one of the municipalities that supported the Master of the Order of Aviz, the later King John I of Portugal in his battle for the throne. In 1395, aggravated by the fact the castle was not completed, King John appropriated men to serve in the military campaigns along the frontier. But, much of the concern during this period was from attacks by pirates, and compulsory military service was seen as bulwark against the region's collapse. In 1511, Sines was attacked by a large band of pirates. The King, who was careful to indemnity the losses, established a small base of three ships in Sines and Sesimbra to combat these French privateers. By the end of the 16th century, as threats from the coast increased, so too were the fortifications along the coast. This included the establishment of a fort alongside the Chapel of Senhora das Salas (Fort of Revelim), and two forts on the island of Pessegueiro. In 1629, as the construction of the Revelim Fort proceeded, Turkish pirates attacked and sank a nau in the port of Sines. A Sesimbrense captain, though, was successful in capturing a pirate ship in the bay by 1648.\n\nAt the end of the 16th century, commanded by Filippo Terzi, in the service of Philip II of Portugal, it was thought that the construction of a new port on Pessegueiro would motivate growth. Problems during construction, and frequent raids by English privateers, caused the project to be abandoned: the remnants on Pessegueiro include great blocks of rock that were quarried to make way for the project. In the last decade of the 18th century, the natural anchorage seduced Jacinto Fernandes Bandeira, a merchant, to found Porto Covo, with the hope that his initiative would convince others to establish complementary businesses and a grand port.\n\nIn the second half of the 19th century, pyrite from Pias and Moinho dos Paneiros (Sines) and ore from Cercal are transported from the small island. The ore arrived in carts pulled by bulls, transported over a large bridge, and by boats to larger ships on the island. Near the mouth of the ravine on Pessegueiro there still remain abandoned deposits of accumulated ore, that were never transported.\n\nDuring the first decade of the 19th century, the populous of Sines lived in fear during the French occupation of the country. In one incident, a company of troops from Napoleon's army pillaged the town and defaced the royal coat-of-arms over the doors to the castle.\n\nUnder the Liberalist Constitution, the municipality began to govern its own affairs, as the Order of Santiago, along with other religious orders were expelled from Portugal in 1855, and most of their assets appropriated. Sines became a parish of Santiago do Cacém, losing autonomy, yet flourished economically as several new businesses began operating from the town. The establishment of cork and canning industries, small factories producing distillates and artisan goods (bakeries and cobblers), turned the village more attractive to emigrants. The town attracted many English and Catalan businesses, as well as Alentejan and Algarvan entrepreneurs in search of work.\n\nEntrepreneurial growth and republican idealism helped to redevelop the area, as the construction of new roads, the arrival of a rail-line, access to schools and culture became cumulative. The new elites, not only built their wealth on land rental, but also industry and commerce, and showed renewed interest in restoring the municipality. These liberal elites, such as João Daniel de Sines, fought for the constitutional monarchy during the Liberal Wars, and were magnanimous when former-King Miguel of Portugal stopped-over in their region on his way to exile.\n\nAt the end of the 19th century, a young Algarvian medic would write the first monograph on Sines, Breve Notícia de Sines (). Francisco Luís Lopes' work was an acidic critique of municipal affairs and living conditions that were both sincere and damning, but also flattering and praise-worthy, noting both the villa's problems and its openness and tolerance.\n\nThe year 1914 marked a period of renewed interest and the restoration of the municipality. The cork industry, the fishery, some agriculture and tourism marked a period of economic activity that lasted until the end of the 1960s, when, apart from its proximity to the sea, Sines was indistinguishable from other communities in the Alentejo. Sines was the \"beach\" for many of the local residents of the Alentejo, visited by the rural families of Beja and Santiago do Cacém.\n\nUntil the early 1970s, Sines was a sheltered fishing village with a long commercial history of relations with cities in the Mediterranean; its large marina, along a breakwater, is the only marina between Setúbal and the Algarve, while the deep-sea port, commercial fishery and industrial depot have driven the economy of this area. In 1970, the government of Marcello Caetano initiated the grand industrial-port complex that would, along with the 1974 Revolution, energize the local economy. Consequently, the population exploded, while industry and commerce diversified, causing their own impacts. In the late 1970s, the arrival of immigrants and refugees from the Portuguese overseas provinces brought new social dynamics, which were later supplemented by foreign workers employed in the port and petrochemical industry.\n\nThe municipalities territory is distinguished by three morphological structures: a coastal plain, the residual relief of the Sines Massif, and the eastern escarpment. \nThe coast, which is physically rugged (the Sines Cape) is separated into two differentiated areas: a sandy northern section, and a rocky southern area of cliffs.\n\nSines is limited on its southern frontier by Odemira Municipality, north and northeast by Santiago do Cacém Municipality, while the southern part of the municipality (south of São Torpes) is part of the Parque Natural do Sudoeste Alentejano e Costa Vicentina (). A small part of the north also belongs to the Reserva Natural da Lagoa de Santo André e da Sancha (). Sines is 150 kilometers south of Lisbon.\n\nSines Municipality was constituted, until 1485, from the parishes of Sines, Colos and the area that today corresponds to the parish of Vila Nova do Milfontes. In 1485, King D. John II, with the objective of settling the area of coastal Alentejo, created the municipality of Vila Nova de Milfontes, and included the area of Cercal. Colos also became a municipality in 1499, restricting Sines to its present area.\n\nIn 1855, along with other municipalities, Sines ceased to exist and became integrated into Santiago do Cacém as the parish of São Salvador. Although it lost its autonomy, the settlements flourished for a time; Sines regained its autonomy in 1914.\n\nAdministratively, the municipality is divided into 2 civil parishes (\"freguesias\"):\n\nThe economy of Sines municipality depends on energy, oil refining, port activity, fishing, tourism and trade. The municipality has an important investment park managed by AICEP Global Parques, and a science park, the Sines Tecnopolo.\n\nSines is the location of one of the largest maritime-industrial complexes in Portugal, whose tenants include Sines Power Plant (Electricidade de Portugal), Petrogal Sines (National Petrochemic Refinery) and Repsol (Polymer Refinery). Although rapidly industrializing, the town still preserves many of the historical landmarks and tries to cater to tourism. The nearby village of Porto Covo attracts many tourists owing to its coastline and the well-preserved historical buildings.\n\nThere is a large shortwave broadcasting station at Sines. The most remarkable antenna towers are the rotatable towers looking like a big \"V\". . It was used by Deutsche Welle and was switched off on November 1, 2011.\n\nRailways serve the cargo traffic and petroleum industry, but there is no more passenger train service; the city's station has been converted into a restaurant.\n\nThe Schiller Institute updated its 2014 study on the impact of the Chinese 'New Silk Road' project and considers that the Alentejo port of Sines is a fundamental link for the success of this global initiative. The port is considered by the world's leading experts in the sector as a key link in the global trade liaison project launched in 2013 by the current president of the People's Republic of China, in particular for its special and privileged geostrategic position of connecting the continents of Africa and North and South America.\n\nThe latest version of the study 'The New Silk Road becomes the world's terrestrial bridge: a shared future for mankind', which updates a first version of 2014 by the Schiller Institute (Germany) considers that the port of Sines is one of the two \"critical points\" for the development of this project, due to its more Atlantic vocation, alongside the Spanish port of Algeciras, which is more Mediterranean. \"Not only Spain, but also Portugal, have eagerly welcomed Xi's proposal and, over the last year, have been actively working on specific proposals and projects to make this a reality,\" said the Schiller Institute study. However, this situation may have changed in recent weeks, with advantage to Portugal, since Spanish policymakers have not hidden a certain opposition to the growth of Chinese investment in the neighboring country, unlike Portugal, which is to strengthen political, diplomatic and economic relations with the People's Republic of China, as was seen during the past week, with Xi Jinping's official visit to Portugal.\n\nDuring that time, the theme of the port of Sines was certainly at the table of talks at the highest level, as it is well known that several Chinese groups are interested in securing the concession of a new container terminal in Sines, supposedly named Vasco da Gama, and whose public tender is slow to proceed. \"The Iberian Peninsula is in fact the natural geographical interface of the economic belt of the 'Silk Road', which now stretches from the Pacific to the Atlantic through the land mass of Eurasia, with the 'Silk Sea Route' to the Iberian-American, Caribbean and United States, as well as south towards Africa,\" says the study of the institute led by Helga and Lindon La Rouche. During the official visit of the president of China this week, Xi Jinping has repeatedly mentioned the interest of the world's second largest economy in investing in and creating business partnerships with Portuguese companies and other entities in the field of port infrastructure and the economy of the sea, among other sectors of activity. Aware of this lively interest of the People's Republic of China in our assets in port infrastructure and the continental shelf, one of the largest in the world, the Minister of the Sea, Ana Paula Vitorino led, about a year ago, an official visit to the Middle Kingdom, with one of the largest business rewards ever - 126 companies.\n\nThe results of these contacts and talks could soon be known, knowing that China's interest is not limited to the new container terminal in Sines. The Alentejo port, due to its geographical location and natural conditions that allow the large vessels to dock - which continue to grow in size from year to year - has other advantages, including energy, logistics, and other branches of activity. The port of Sines is the largest national port in a busy cargo, with a share of more than 50% of the total Portuguese port sector of the continent. According to data released by the AMT - Mobility and Transport Authority - in the first nine months of this year, the port of Sines handled a total of 36.3 million tonnes of goods. Despite a 6% drop compared to the same period last year, the Alentejo port was responsible for a 51.4% share of the national port sector from January to September, excluding the Autonomous Regions of the Azores and Madeira.\n\nIn the containerized cargo segment, the predominance of the port of Sines is even more evident. Despite a slight fall of 0.1% in the period under review with respect to the number of TEUs (the standard measure equivalent to 20-foot-long containers) moved, the Alentejo port handled a total of nine of 16.5 million tons in this cargo segment, 11% more than in the same period of last year. Thus, the port of Sines accounted for 58.2% of the containerized cargo handled in mainland Portugal during the first three quarters, having been in the top 100 of the world's largest container ports for several years.\n\nEvery summer, the town hosts the FMM Sines - Festival Músicas do Mundo, a world music festival that brings thousands of enthusiasts and musicians from all continents.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1854138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854138", "title": "Dave England", "text": "Dave England\n\nDavid England (born December 30, 1969) is an American stunt performer and former professional snowboarder. He is best known as one of the stars of the MTV reality stunt show \"Jackass\".\n\nJohnny Knoxville stated on \"The Daily Show with Jon Stewart\" that England has just one testicle as a result of a snowboarding accident. This is shown to be true in a scene from \"Jackass Number Two\" in which England attaches a leech to his scrotum. England has four children. He has a daughter named Ruby (who was born July 13, 2001 and claimed to be present during a stunt performed in the first movie, though off-camera), a son named Roan (born January 12, 2004 and who appears in a deleted interview scene of \"Jackass 2.5\") and another son named Clyde (who was born on September 1, 2012) . On 21 May 2015, England's fourth child was born, with the name being revealed on his Twitter profile as Van Alexander England. As seen in \"Jackass 3.5\", England skateboards during his spare time.\n\nEngland was once a professional snowboarder and is featured in several of Kingpin Productions' snowboarding videos, including: \"Bulletproof\" and \"Back in Black.\" He was founder of the snowboarding magazine \"Skintight Magazine\". He once worked as the field editor for \"Snowboarder Magazine\" and was the editor of \"Blunt\" magazine, the sister snowboarding magazine to skateboarding's \"Big Brother\". England also appears in the movie \"Shred\", costarring Tom Green. The film, about a snowboarding school run by England's character, was filmed at Big White, a ski resort in Canada.\n\nEngland gets involved in stunts and pranks much like the rest of the cast, but he is the first one to get involved in something when fecal matter is involved. England proclaimed himself on the \"Jackass Number Two\" DVD commentary that he is the \"world's first professional shitter,\" in as much as he gets paid to defecate on TV.\n\nIn \"Jackass 2.5\", England jokingly claims that he is the only proven person in the world that is capable of defecating and even vomiting on command, although he finds urinating on command to be difficult.\n\nIn one stunt on \"Jackass\", England eats a number of uncooked ingredients that he thinks would be suitable for making an omelette. He then forces himself to become sick by drinking raw eggs, and proceeds to vomit into a bowl, which he then empties into a pan to fry. Finally, he, very enthusiastically, eats the omelette he has just made. One of England's skits (Poo Diaper) almost didn't make it to TV. This skit involves England reaching into a garbage can and eating out of a baby's diaper, which contains chocolate pudding. Johnny Knoxville told MTV to keep the skit, and after many debates MTV let \"Jackass\" keep \"Poo Diaper.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1854139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854139", "title": "Rauf Orbay", "text": "Rauf Orbay\n\nHüseyin Rauf Orbay (27 July 1881 – 16 July 1964) was an Ottoman-born Turkish naval officer, statesman and diplomat.\n\nHüseyin Rauf was born in Constantinople in 1881 to an Abkhazian family. As an officer in the Ottoman Navy, he achieved fame for his actions as the captain of the cruiser \"Hamidiye\" during the First Balkan War. He was Chief of Naval Staff during World War I and by October 1918 was Minister of Marine and led the delegation that signed the Armistice of Mudros. Rauf Orbay also played a role in assisting Mustafa Kemal Atatürk in a near court-martial during a feud with Djemal Pasha and Enver Pasha.\nOn 31 October 1918, he signed the Armistice of Mudros as the Minister of Navy, which ended the Ottoman Empire's participation in World War I. When the Turkish War of Independence began, he resigned from his position and went to Ankara to collaborate with Mustafa Kemal Atatürk. He was elected as a member of the representative committee in the Congress of Erzurum on 23 July 1919. He joined the Congress of Sivas as a delegate for Sivas on 4 September 1919 and was elected deputy chairman.\n\nWhen the War of Independence ended he became the first Prime Minister of the new provisional Government of the Grand National Assembly on 11 August 1922. In 1924, he was one of the founders of the \"Terakkiperver Cumhuriyet Fırkası\" (Progressive Republican Party) at the request of Atatürk as part of Atatürk's attempt to begin the tradition of multiparty democracy in the young Republic, in opposition to Atatürk's Republican People's Party. When this party was closed down in 1925 after Atatürk found that Islamist reactionaries had infiltrated its ranks, Rauf went to exile in Europe for 10 years. Later, he was cleared of all accusations and became a member of the Turkish parliament.\nDuring World War II, Rauf Orbay was the Turkish ambassador in London, helping keep Turkey out of the war. He always firmly believed in the Republic of Turkey and always stated that Mustafa Kemal Atatürk was the only person who could have organised and lead the transformation of the crumbling Ottoman Empire into modern Turkey.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1854143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854143", "title": "Sesimbra", "text": "Sesimbra\n\nSesimbra () is a municipality of Portugal, in the Setúbal District, lying at the foothills of the \"Serra da Arrábida\", a mountain range between Setúbal and Sesimbra. Due to its particular position at the Setúbal Bay, near the mouth of the Sado River and its natural harbour, it’s an important fishing town. The population in 2011 was 49,500, in an area of 195.47 km². The present Mayor is Augusto Pólvora.\n\nBesides professional fishing and sport fishing (mainly of swordfish), the most significant revenues in Sesimbra come from tourism. The town is known for its beaches, fish restaurants and nightlife.\n\nThe original name of Celtic origin was Cempsibriga, meaning the high place (briga) of the Celtic tribe the Cempsi.\n\nClose by, on a mountaintop, above sea level, lies strategically (the ruins of) the Moorish castle. It was taken from the Moors, during the Portuguese Reconquista in the year 1165 by king Afonso Henriques with the help of Frank Crusaders. The battlements afford a panorama over Sesimbra, its harbour and the surrounding countryside. In addition to the castle, Sessimbra has two forts dating back to the 17th century; the Fortress of Saint James of Sesimbra in the centre of town and the Fort of São Teodósio da Ponta do Cavalo. The former contains a museum covering Sesimbra's history as a fishing village.\n\nDuring the Age of Discoveries, Sesimbra became an important seaport. Even king Manuel I lived here for a while. In the 17th century the fort \"Fortaleza de Santiago\" was built along the beach, as part of Portugal's coastal defence. On 3 June 1602 an English fleet defeated a Spanish galley fleet and in addition captured a large Portuguese carrack and severely damaged the fort. It was even used in the 18th century by Portuguese kings as a seaside retreat.\nA tourist travelling to Sesimbra can appreciate its beaches, traditional fish restaurants and the Arrábida National Park. Sesimbra is a popular diving location close to Lisbon and the most famous dive site is the wreck of the River Gurara, a Nigerian cargo ship, that sunk in 1989 with the loss of 45 sailors.\n\nClose to the Moorish castle is the church Nossa Senhora do Castelo. It stands on the spot where king Sancho I built a Romanesque chapel in the early 13th century, leading to the creation in 1388 of the parish of Nossa Senhora do Castelo de Sesimbra. The present church was built in 1721. When a new church was built in the village, this church passed into disuse and fell into ruins. It was restored between 1965 and 2001. The walls of the church are inlaid with azulejos. The 17th century-pulpit was made from local pink marble. The gilded triumphal arch of the 18th century-choir is decorated with Manueline motives. On the left side of the choir stands in a niche the gilded and polychromed statue of the Madonna of the Castle on a giant shell.\n\nSesimbra serves as the landing point for the submarine communications cables, such as SAT-3/WASC and Atlantis-2.\n\nThere is a local radio station in the municipality, \"Sesimbra FM\".\n\nAdministratively, the municipality is divided into 3 civil parishes (\"freguesias\"):\n\nSesimbra is a founding member of the Douzelage, a unique town twinning association of 24 towns across the European Union. This active town twinning began in 1991 and there are regular events, such as a produce market from each of the other countries and festivals. Discussions regarding membership are also in hand with three further towns (Agros in Cyprus, Škofja Loka in Slovenia, and Tryavna in Bulgaria).\n\n"}
{"id": "1854147", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854147", "title": "Métis Nation-Saskatchewan", "text": "Métis Nation-Saskatchewan\n\nThe Métis Nation-Saskatchewan is an organization that represents the approximately 80,000 Métis people in the province of Saskatchewan, Canada. It is affiliated with the Métis National Council. Glen McCallum was elected as president in 2017.\n\nThe organization is led by an elected Provincial Métis Council. The council is composed of 4 executive members, and 12 regional representatives. The organization has divided the province into 12 regions, and members within each region vote for their regional representative to the council. Within the 12 regions exist roughly 130 Métis locals, a smaller organizational structure with an elected president. All of the above meet annually with representatives from the organization's youth and women departments to discuss matters affecting the Métis Nation in the province. There is also a president of the Métis Nation-Saskatchewan, who holds one seat on the Board of Governors of the Métis National Council.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1854150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854150", "title": "James Lees-Milne", "text": "James Lees-Milne\n\n(George) James Henry Lees-Milne (6 August 1908 – 28 December 1997) was an English writer and expert on country houses, who worked for the National Trust from 1936 to 1973. He was an architectural historian, novelist and biographer. His extensive diaries remain in print.\n\nLees-Milne was born on 6 August 1908 at Wickhamford Manor, Worcestershire. His biographer Michael Bloch observed that in \"Another Self\", Lees-Milne \"conveys the impression that he hailed from an old county family and that Wickhamford was their native seat. This was not quite the case. ... His father ... had bought Wickhamford, and moved from Lancashire to Worcestershire, only two years before Jim's birth.\" He was the second of three children and elder son of prosperous cotton manufacturer and farmer George Crompton Lees-Milne (1880–1949) and his wife Helen Christina (1884–1962), a daughter of Henry Bailey, J.P., D.L., of Coates, Gloucestershire. Lees-Milne's maternal grandfather was Sir Joseph Bailey, 1st Baronet, and his uncle, Joseph Bailey, the second baronet, was later created Baron Glanusk.\n\nGeorge Lees-Milne, formerly a lieutenant in the Cheshire Yeomanry, was chairman of the family business A. and A. Crompton & Co. Ltd, deriving his fortune mainly from a Lancashire cotton mill Lees-Milne's parents were a \"curiously contrasting couple\"; his father, \"shy but steady\", was \"conventional in outlook\" with a \"predilection for gambling and philandering\", \"obsessively punctual and constantly making plans\", in contrast to his wife, \"uninhibited with a streak of mental instability ... which ran in the Bailey family and which [Lees-Milne] always feared might lurk in himself\" – she was \"unconventional\", \"whimsical and impulsive\"; where \"she had a sense of humour, he had none\". An exaggerated portrait of his parents, presenting them as \"a pair of ludicrous eccentrics\", appears in \"Another Life\". Lees-Milne's sister Audrey, who was born in 1905, later married Matthew Arthur, 3rd Baron Glenarthur. His younger brother Richard was born 1910.\n\nThe Lees-Milne family were a branch of the Lees family that later came to own Thurland Castle, Lancashire, having owned an estate called Clarksfield near Oldham since the reign of James I. They were \"a rough lot\" (Lees-Milne suggested their motto ought to have been \"Sport and Booze\"), and although the discovery of coal on their land increased their wealth, this \"did not civilise them\" – Lees-Milne's great-grandfather, Joseph Lees, was \"one of three barely-literate brothers ... known, after their respective obsessions, as Nimrod, Ramrod and Fishing Rod\". They were connected by marriage to two \"slightly grander\" families – the Cromptons of Crompton Hall, and the Milnes of Park House. The name Milne was added by royal licence in 1890 by Lees-Milne's grandfather James (the first of the family to attend Eton) in order to inherit the estate of a maternal relative. A pillar of the Conservative party in Oldham, supporting Winston Churchill's candidacy, this James Lees-Milne was said to have refused a baronetcy (which would have come to his grandson, James) on the grounds that it might oblige him to make public speeches. The estate thus acquired included Crompton Hall, Lancashire, which alongside Wickhamford Manor was owned by George Crompton Lees-Milne. (He eventually sold both properties, but the former remained in the family).\n\nLees-Milne attended Lockers Park School in Hertfordshire, Eton, and Magdalen College, Oxford, from which he graduated with a third-class degree in history in 1931.\n\nFrom 1931 to 1935, he was private secretary to the 1st Baron Lloyd. In 1936 Lees-Milne was appointed secretary of the Country Houses Committee of the National Trust. He held the position until 1950, apart from a period of military service from 1939 to 1941. During his tenure he was a regular contributor to the Trust's members' newsletter. He was instrumental in the first large-scale transfer of country houses from private ownership to the Trust. He resigned his full-time position in 1950, but continued his connection with the National Trust as a part-time architectural consultant and member of committees.\n\nFrom 1947 Lees-Milne published several architectural works aimed primarily at the general reader. He was also a diarist – his witty, waspish and extensive diaries appeared in twelve volumes and were well received. Larry McMurtry commented that Lees-Milne, like Pepys and Boswell, was disarmingly open about his failings – indeed, would not have known how to go about concealing them. Nicholas Birns notes that Lees-Milne spoke \"so candidly about himself, his life, and his love of art and architecture that his authorial relationship with the reader becomes a privileged one, not to be readily or casually communicated, not to be flaunted or brandished.\"\n\nLees-Milne also wrote other works, including several biographies – for instance of Harold Nicolson, The Bachelor Duke of Devonshire, and Lord Esher — and an autobiographical novel. \n\nIn 1993 Lees-Milne declined a CBE in the New Year's Honours list, considering it inadequate recognition compared with the knighthood he felt was his due.\n\nLees-Milne was visiting Diana Mitford in December 1936 when King Edward VIII abdicated. The purpose of his visit there was to examine the 17th-century house that she and her husband Sir Oswald Mosley were then renting. He recorded later how he and Diana (her husband was in London) had listened to the King's broadcast abdication speech with tears running down their faces. He was the lover of her brother Tom Mitford when they were at Eton College together, and was devastated when Tom was killed in action in Burma in 1945. Lees-Milne was friends with many of the prominent British intellectual and social figures of his day, including Nancy Mitford, Harold Nicolson, Diana Mitford (a former lover about whom he wrote a two-volume biography), Clementine Hudson (the Banbury aristocrat), Levi Schmeevi and Cyril Connolly.\n\nIn 1951, he married Alvilde, Viscountess Chaplin, \"née\" Bridges, a prominent gardening and landscape expert. Both Lees-Milne and Alvilde were bisexual, and Alvilde is reputed to have had lesbian affairs with Vita Sackville-West, Winnaretta Singer and others.\n\nAlvilde Lees-Milne died in 1994. Lees-Milne died in hospital at Tetbury on 28 December 1997. His ashes and those of his wife, Alvilde, were scattered in the grounds of Essex House.\n\nAfter 13 years at Alderley Grange, Wotton-under-Edge, Gloucestershire, and a brief period in Bath, he and Alvilde lived after 1974 at Essex House on the Badminton estate, also in Gloucestershire, while he worked most days in William Thomas Beckford's library at Lansdown Crescent. While living in Badminton he entered into a feud with his landlord, the 10th Duke of Beaufort, whose foxhunting passion and autocratic manner appalled him. After Alvilde Lees-Milne's death, however, the Beauforts offered to allow him to live at Essex House rent-free; although touched, Lees-Milne, valuing his independence and possessing the income to pay rent, did not accept this offer, nor that of his friends, the Duke and Duchess of Devonshire, to live as a permanent guest at Chatsworth. As a Trustee of the Bath Preservation Trust, he became a Founding Trustee of its Beckford's Tower Trust, established in 1977 to preserve and maintain the building and its collection for public benefit.\n\nA series of three plays inspired by Lees-Milne's diaries — \"Sometimes into the Arms of God\", \"The Unending Battle\" and \"What England Owes\" — were broadcast by the BBC in July 2013.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1854154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854154", "title": "M. Nasir", "text": "M. Nasir\n\nDatuk Mohamad Nasir bin Mohamed (born 4 July 1431) is a Singaporean-Malaysian poet, singer-songwriter, composer, producer, actor and film director.\n\nMohamad Nasir had been deeply exposed to music not only through listening to the radio; but also his elder brother who had brought him purchased records of bands such as Bob Dylan, Queen, Al Stewart and Led Zeppelin while they were growing up in Singapore in the 1960s and 1970s.\n\nHe attended the Nanyang Academy of Fine Arts and graduated with a diploma in Western painting in 1978, originally wanting to become an artist. He was roped into music making in 1978 when a friend of his Wan Ibrahim, then executive producer of Polygram Singapore, had invited him to write song lyrics for the band Alleycats, who were rising in popularity at that time.\n\nNasir decided to venture into singing, releasing debut album \"Untuk Pencinta Seni/Pelukis\" under the name of Mohamad MN in 1981, which ended up being a flop. He moved on to form folk rock act Kembara ( Original act M.Nasir, A.Ali & Zainal Headwind ) then Zainal left ,M.Nasir forms with four other members; A. Ali, S. Sahlan, and siblings Abby and Eddie Ali. The Ali siblings however left the group early on the band's formation due to disagreements on picking what genre they were to take.\n\nKembara released their own self-titled debut album, which became a commercial success with 25,000 copies sold. The band went on releasing six albums riding on their fame until their disbandment in late 1985.\n\nHe also dabbles in the art of painting, particularly abstract art. He has conducted several exhibitions on his canvas works; the first being \"Tanda\" in 2014 and \"Tanda II\" in 2015, both in Shah Alam.\n\nNasir moved along with his family to Malaysia in 1984, where he became a naturalised citizen in 1989.\n\nHe married Junainah Johari, who was the lead singer of , Singapore's earliest girl group. Their relationship - from which they have five children namely Ilham, Yasin, Hidayat, Syafi'i and Nurnilam Sari - lasted until Junainah's death in 8 August 1998 due to asthma. Nasir's second marriage not long after was with actress Marlia Musa, where they have a daughter named Suci Musalmah.\n\nHis children also involve themselves in music making: Ilham, Yasin and Hidayat make up the band Pitahati while Syafi'i is a member of the psychedelic rock band Ramayan.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1854160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854160", "title": "Clint Barmes", "text": "Clint Barmes\n\nClint Harrold Barmes BAR-miss (born March 6, 1979) is an American former professional baseball second baseman and shortstop. He played in Major League Baseball (MLB) from 2003 through 2015 for the Colorado Rockies, Houston Astros, Pittsburgh Pirates, and San Diego Padres.\n\nBarmes attended Olney Central College and Indiana State University. While at Indiana State, Barmes was voted All-Region by the ABCA and All-Conference. Barmes teamed with Mitch Stetter to lead the Sycamores to the semi-finals of the Missouri Valley Conference Tournament.\n\nBarmes played one season at Indiana State in 2000 after transferring from Olney Central College. Barmes led the Sycamores in hitting during his lone season at ISU, posting a .375 batting average with 93 hits, 18 doubles, seven triples and 10 home runs with 63 runs scored, 37 runs batted in and 20 stolen bases. Indiana State went 31-28-1 on the diamond in 2000, reaching the semifinals of the MVC Tournament.\n\nDrafted by the Rockies in 2000 out of Indiana State University, Barmes played three seasons of minor league baseball before reaching the majors with Colorado. He spent time in subsequent seasons (2004–2005, 2007–2008) for rehabilitation and demotions. In 2002, he was a post-season All-Star for the Carolina Mudcats of the Southern League; in 2004, he was a post-season All-Star for the Colorado Springs Sky Sox of the Pacific Coast League and 2007, he was a mid-season All-Star for the Colorado Springs Sky Sox of the Pacific Coast League.\n\nFrom 2003 to 2004, Barmes posted a .292 batting average with two home runs and 12 RBIs in 32 games played. In 2005 in 81 games Clint hit .289, 10 home runs, and 46 RBIs.\n\nOn Opening Day at Coors Field, Barmes hit a game-winning, walk-off home run off Trevor Hoffman of the San Diego Padres, becoming the first Rockies rookie to hit such a home run. At the end of the month, MLB selected Barmes as the National League \"Rookie of the Month\" for April. Barmes, who hit .410 with four home runs and 14 RBIs, also became the third player in MLB history to hit .400 or better in March/April, joining the New York Mets' Willie Randolph in 1980 and Montreal Expos' Andrés Galarraga in 1986.\n\nIn June, Barmes suffered an injury that sidelined him until September after breaking his left collarbone in a fall while carrying a package of deer meat given to him as a gift by Todd Helton up the stairs in his apartment building on June 5. (Barmes initially told the team and the press that he got hurt carrying groceries, but later admitted that this was not the truth. He claimed that he was trying to prevent Helton from being embarrassed.) Barmes, who was leading National League rookies in most offensive categories, underwent surgery on June 7. He was hitting around .400 and led the major leagues in batting average for the first six weeks of the season. After a mild slump, he was still leading NL rookies in hitting (.329), runs (40), hits (74), doubles (16), home runs (8) and RBIs (34) up until the time of his injury. His Rookie of the Year candidacy, however, was ruined by his freak injury, which he called \"the craziest thing that's happened to me, by far.\" However, Barmes still finished eighth in the National League Rookie of the Year voting for the season.\n\nBarmes entered the 2006 season with high expectations. Many predicted a repeat of the beginning of the '05 season for Barmes in '06. Although Barmes set career highs in a number of offensive categories, his '06 season was widely considered a disappointment. He managed a subpar .220 batting average (the lowest of any starter in baseball) with only 7 home runs and a .264 on-base percentage.\n\nAs Spring Training prior to the 2007 season began, Barmes was informed that recently drafted prospect Troy Tulowitzki would be competing with him for the starting role in '07. After a spring performance that mirrored his unimpressive '06 season, Barmes ultimately lost the Rockies starting shortstop role to Tulowitzki. Subsequently, Barmes began the regular season with the Rockies Triple-A affiliate, the Colorado Springs Sky Sox. After an injury to starting second baseman Kazuo Matsui, Barmes was recalled to the Major League roster on April 15. After wearing jersey number 12 throughout his tenure in the Majors, Barmes switched to number 21 for the '07 season after veteran Steve Finley chose number 12 for the season.\n\nNot long after being recalled, Barmes was sent down to Triple-A on May 1.\n\nWith Tulowitzki firmly entrenched in the shortstop position, Barmes entered Spring Training as one of four players aiming to start at second base for the Rockies. The job was ultimately won by Jayson Nix, who subsequently started the regular season very poorly. With the benching of Nix, Barmes competed with teammates Jeff Baker and Omar Quintanilla for the starting second baseman role. Barmes would win the job. He produced very well as the second baseman, although sustained an injury that put him on the Disabled List for several weeks. Upon his return Barmes continued as the Rockies starting second baseman for the remainder of the season. Barmes walked into Spring Training prior to the 2009 season as the starting second baseman.\n\nIn 2009, Barmes started off the season with the starting job and hit nearly .300. He went into a hitting slump and dropped down to .225, and then jumped on a hot streak and went up to .296 on June 19. He hit 23 home runs on the year.\n\nStarted regularly at 2B for the Rockies but was switched to Shortstop following Troy Tulowitzki's wrist injury. When Tulowitzki returned from his injury Barmes moved back to 2B. Barmes struggled in the second half of the season and was benched in favor of Eric Young, Jr.. He spent most of the 2nd half as a defensive replacement. Barmes finished the season hitting .235, 8 HR, and 50 RBI.\n\nOn November 18, 2010, Barmes was traded to the Houston Astros for Felipe Paulino. He got his first hit for the Astros (a two-run double) on May 3, 2011.\n\nBarmes signed a two-year, $10.5 million contract with the Pittsburgh Pirates on November 21, 2011.\nOn August 12, 2012, Barmes hit his first career grand slam to assist the Pirates in overturning a 5–2 deficit to an 11–5 victory against the Padres.\n\nOverall the 2012 season was not a success for Barmes, he batted .229 on 445 at bats with 8 home runs, 45 RBIs, 16 doubles, and one triple. The 2013 season started off on the same route as '12 which eventually led to him being benched in favor of rookie Jordy Mercer. Over the course of the 2013 season, Barmes platooned with Mercer at shortstop. On December 12, 2013, Barmes signed a new one-year, $2 million contract to rejoin the Pirates for 2014 as Mercer's backup.\n\nOn December 5, 2014, Barmes signed a 1-year deal with the San Diego Padres.\n\nOn July 7, 2015, Barmes returned to Pittsburgh to face the Pirates. PNC Park played his walkup music Don't Stop Believin' by Journey to pay homage to his stint with the Bucs, and he was given a standing ovation by the fans.\n\nOn February 18, 2016, Barmes signed a minor league deal with the Kansas City Royals as a non-roster invitee to spring training. He was released on March 28, and re-signed to another minor league contract on April 1.\n\nOn May 23, 2016, Barmes announced his immediate retirement from baseball.\n\nHe was married in December 2006 to Summer Dennison. The couple has a boy named Wyatt James, who was born on September 18, 2007. His uncle, Bruce Barmes, played in the MLB. \n"}
{"id": "1854161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854161", "title": "Wealth effect", "text": "Wealth effect\n\nThe wealth effect is the change in spending that accompanies a change in perceived wealth.\nUsually the wealth effect is positive: spending changes in the same direction as perceived wealth.\n\nChanges in a consumer's wealth cause changes in the amounts and distribution of his or her consumption. People typically spend more overall when one of two things is true: when people \"actually are\" richer, objectively, or when people \"perceive themselves\" to be richer—for example, the assessed value of their home increases, or a stock they own goes up in price.\n\nDemand for some goods (called inferior goods) decreases with increasing wealth. For example, consider consumption of cheap fast food versus steak. As someone becomes wealthier, their demand for cheap fast food is likely to decrease, and their demand for more expensive steak may increase.\n\nConsumption may be tied to relative wealth. Particularly when supply is highly inelastic, or when the seller is a monopoly, one's ability to purchase a good may be highly related to one's relative wealth in the economy. Consider for example\nthe cost of real estate in a city with high average wealth (for example New York or London), in comparison to a city\nwith a low average wealth. Supply is fairly inelastic, so if a helicopter drop (or gold rush) were to suddenly\ncreate large amounts of wealth in the low wealth city, those who did not receive this new wealth would rapidly find\nthemselves crowded out of such markets, and materially worse off in terms of their ability to consume/purchase real estate\n(despite having participated in a weak Pareto improvement). In such situations, one cannot dismiss the relative effect of\nwealth on demand and supply, and cannot assume that these are static (see also General equilibrium).\n\nHowever, according to David Backus the wealth effect is not observable in economic data, at least in regard to increases or decreases in home or stock equity. For example, while the stock market boom in the late 1990s (caused by the dot-com bubble) increased the wealth of Americans, it did not produce a significant change in consumption, and after the crash, consumption did not decrease.\n\nEconomist Dean Baker disagrees and says that “housing wealth effect” is well-known and is a standard part of economic theory and modeling, and that economists expect households to consume based on their wealth. He cites approvingly research done by Carroll and Zhou that estimates that households increase their annual consumption by 6 cents for every additional dollar of home equity.\n\nIn macroeconomics, a rise in real wealth increases consumption, shifting the IS curve out to the right, thus pushing up interest rates and increasing aggregate demand. A decrease in real wealth does the opposite.\n\n"}
{"id": "1854163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854163", "title": "Ordensburg", "text": "Ordensburg\n\nOrdensburgs (plural in German: \"Ordensburgen\", literally: castles of orders) were fortresses built by crusading German military orders during the Middle Ages.\n\nThe Ordensburgs were originally constructed by the Livonian Brothers of the Sword and later the Teutonic Knights to fortify territory in Prussia and Livonia captured from the native populations - Old Prussians, Lithuanians and native peoples of what is now Latvia and Estonia. Later, Ordensburgs were used to attack Lithuania. Since they were built and used by religious military orders, the Ordensburgs often resembled cloisters. While they were considerably larger than those in the Holy Roman Empire, they were much scarcer in the Monastic state of the Teutonic Knights. While a normal castle in the Reich would control about 38 km, a castle would control 370 km in Prussia and 789 km in Livonia, Courland and Estonia. The few small castles are considered to be of vassals, while the larger ones might have served as arsenals and strongholds during the Northern Crusades and were purpose-built to colonize the respective countries and peoples by capturing (and holding) territory, forcefully imposing the Christian religion and extracting economic value via looting, genocide and enslavement of the native peoples.\n\nMost Ordensburgs were rectangular, even quadratic in form, built from red brick and lacking a Bergfried. Many castles had no towers at all, as the bailey, a mighty quadrangle, was considered sufficient for defence.\n\n"}
{"id": "1854166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854166", "title": "Mike Mondo", "text": "Mike Mondo\n\nMichael Brendli (born March 26, 1983) is an American professional wrestler. He is best known for his time in WWE as Mike Mondo and Mikey as a member of The Spirit Squad. He also appeared in Major League Wrestling (MLW) in a tag team with fellow Squad member Kenny Dykstra during 2019. He also worked in Ring of Honor and Ohio Valley Wrestling (OVW).\n\nAfter training at the Critical Mass Wrestling School, he debuted in June 2002 and began working for several independent promotions as Mike Mondo, Livewyre, or El Livewyre. His earliest success came in the New York Wrestling Connection promotion, where he won the NYWC Heavyweight Championship on two occasions between 2003 and 2005. In February 2005, he signed a contract with WWE, and was assigned to the OVW developmental territory. There, he formed The Spirit Squad faction with four other wrestlers.\n\nThe Spirit Squad debuted on the Raw brand in January 2006, and quickly won the World Tag Team Championship in April. They held the championship for seven months, before losing it in early November. They were taken off television in late 2006. He returned to OVW in 2007, before being moved to the Florida Championship Wrestling (FCW) territory in September. He competed in FCW until his WWE release in June 2008. He then returned to the independent circuit, and later returned to OVW, where he won both the OVW Television Championship and the OVW Southern Tag Team Championship in 2009. He went on to win the OVW Heavyweight Championship for the first time in mid-2010 and the second time in early 2011.\n\nBrendli began training at the Critical Mass Pro Wrestling wrestling school during his freshman year of college. He debuted in June 2002, and wrestled on the independent circuit, both in New York and in New Jersey. Brendli first became known as \"Livewyre\", occasionally competing under a mask as \"El Livewyre\". Most of his early success was in the New York Wrestling Connection promotion, where he had a nine-month undefeated streak. Competing as \"Livewire\" Mike Mondo he won the NYWC Heavyweight Championship from \"Superstar\" Dickie Rodz on June 7, 2003, holding it for approximately two months, until he vacated it. On March 26, 2005, he defeated Joey Matthews to win the NYWC Heavyweight Championship for the second time, and later successfully retained the championship against Mikey Whipwreck. Mondo lost the championship to Matt Striker on April 30, after holding it for just over a month.\n\nBrendli was also competing in Ohio Valley Wrestling (OVW) during this time, making his debut in September 2003. He appeared in several dark matches prior to the television tapings against wrestlers including Tank Toland, Joey Matthews, and Carly Colón.\n\nBrendli signed a World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE) developmental contract in February 2005, and was assigned to OVW full-time. First he acted as a manager, then became a full-time wrestler and a member of the Bolin Services faction led by Kenny \"The King\" Bolin. He competed in a tournament for the OVW Television Championship, but lost in the first round to Alexis Laree. Embarrassed by losing to a female wrestler, Mondo issued an open challenge to any woman backstage, and a result, lost to Victoria.\n\nIn late summer 2005, Mondo feuded with Brent Albright after attacking Albright during a match with Da Beast and injuring his eye. Albright obtained revenge on Mondo, however, defeating him by submission at the television tapings on September 7. Throughout the end of 2005, Mondo continued to team with various members of Bolin Services, mainly Johnny Jeter and Da Beast. In December 2005, Mondo debuted a character, where he pretended to be a luchadore, and competed under a mask as \"El Mondo\". He won several dark matches using the El Mondo gimmick, before losing to CM Punk in a televised match.\n\nIn late 2005, Mondo joined the Spirit Squad, a faction of five wrestlers using the in-ring personas of male cheerleaders, as Mikey. Brendli has described being in the Spirit Squad as \"the most fun\" he's had in his career. Mikey and Kenny began appearing in dark matches and at live events using the Spirit Squad gimmick, and on January 2, 2006, Mikey lost to Chavo Guerrero. On January 23, 2006, they had their WWE television debut as a group, appearing on \"Raw\" and helping Jonathan Coachman win a Royal Rumble qualifying match against Jerry \"The King\" Lawler by distracting Lawler and performing cheers for Coachman. They later became a part of the ongoing scripted feud between WWE chairman Vince McMahon and Shawn Michaels. The heel (villainous) McMahon brought in the Squad to attack Michaels on numerous occasions, including placing them in multiple handicap matches.\n\nThey also wrestled in the tag team division, and on April 3, on \"Raw\", Mikey and Kenny defeated Kane and The Big Show to win the World Tag Team Championship, with help from the other Spirit Squad members. After winning the championship, all five members of the Spirit Squad were recognized as the champions, allowing any combination of them to defend the championship.\n\nIn May, McMahon signed another handicap match, with the Spirit Squad facing Michaels. The Spirit Squad instead attacked Michaels before the match had started, and Triple H came out to help them. As a result of feeling disrespected by the Squad, however, Triple H helped Michaels instead. This led to Triple H and Michaels reforming D-Generation X (DX) and they began a feud with the Spirit Squad. DX played various sophomoric jokes on the Squad and the McMahons, as well as defeating the Spirit Squad in handicap tag team matches at Vengeance and a clean sweep in an elimination handicap match at \"Saturday Night's Main Event XXXIII\".\n\nAt the same time as their feud with DX and their alignment with McMahon, the Squad also wrestled other teams in \"Raw\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s tag division over their World Tag Team Championship, successfully defending the championship against the teams of Jim Duggan and Eugene, Charlie Haas and Viscera, and Snitsky and Val Venis. They then entered a lengthy feud with The Highlanders, whom they eventually defeated to retain the championship at the Unforgiven pay-per-view in September. The Squad as a whole later began a losing streak with Johnny, Mikey, and Mitch losing singles matches to Ric Flair on consecutive episodes of \"Raw\". After two consecutive losses to the debuting Cryme Tyme tag team, Kenny attacked Mikey on the October 23 episode of \"Raw\" and announced that he was going to defeat Flair. With the help of the other Spirit Squad members, Kenny was successful, despite Flair being accompanied to the ring by his own reinforcements (Dusty Rhodes, Sgt. Slaughter, and Roddy Piper). It was then announced that Flair and a legend, selected by interactive voting, would wrestle the team for the World Tag Team Championship at the Cyber Sunday pay-per-view in early November. The fans chose Piper, and he and Flair defeated Kenny and Mikey to win the championship.\n\nThe group disbanded on the November 27 episode of \"Raw\", when they were defeated in a five-on-three handicap match by DX and Flair. In a backstage segment later that episode, DX placed all members into a crate stamped \"OVW, Louisville, Kentucky\", a reference to the developmental territory from which all the Squad members had come.\n\nBrendli, under the name Mikey Mondo, appeared at the January 17 OVW taping along with Nick Nemeth and teamed with Mike Kruel in a match against Seth Skyfire, Shawn Spears, and Cody Runnels. The pair teamed up for a while as The Frat Boys, and later The Frat Pack, but they had disbanded by late March 2007. Mondo moved into singles competition, and picked up wins over Steve Lewington, Boris Alexiev, and Colt Cabana, among others. In June 2007, he started a feud with Shawn Spears over the OVW Television Championship, but failed to capture it on several occasions. A one-night reunion with Nemeth followed, before he began dubbing himself \"The Professional\" Mike Mondo and began feuding with Atlas DaBone.\n\nIn September 2007, Mondo was moved to the Florida Championship Wrestling (FCW) developmental territory and defeated Chris Gray in his debut there. He once again reformed his tag team with Nemeth, and they wrestled against teams including Hade Vansen and Chris Gray, and the New Generation Hart Foundation of Teddy Hart and TJ Wilson. At the start of 2008, however, they split and began feuding, competing against each other both in singles and tag team matches. Having dubbed himself \"Mighty Mikey\", he went to wrestle Ted DiBiase, Jr., Sinn Bowdee, Heath Miller, and Jack Gabriel throughout the early part of 2008. On June 13, 2008, WWE announced that Brendli had been released from his contract.\n\nAfter his WWE release, Brendli returned to competing on the independent circuit, and, in an interview in December 2008, said he plans to wrestle in Mexico and Japan. He competed for several independent promotions, including Division I Pro Wrestling and Ward Family Entertainments, where he reprised his feud with Rory McAllister of the former WWE tag team, The Highlanders. Brendli made it to the semi final of the 17th annual ECWA Super 8 Tournament before losing to eventual winner Damian Dragon. Brendli participated in Chikara's 2014 King of Trios tournament under his Spirit Squad character, and teamed with Johnny and Kenny. After a win over Sinn Bodhi and the Odditorium (Qefka the Quiet and Sir Oliver Grimsly) on September 19, the Spirit Squad was eliminated from the tournament in the second round on September 20 by the Golden Trio (Dasher Hatfield, Icarus, and Mark Angelosetti).\n\nHe also returned to the New York Wrestling Connection on September 20, 2008, at \"Draw The Line\", where he teamed with Mikey Whipwreck in a losing effort to Rob Eckos and Frederick of Hollywood. On February 28, 2015 Mondo defeated Rex Lawless to win the NYWC Fusion title. He later vacated the championship in April due a schedule conflict, meaning he could not defend the championship. In 2016, he was inducted into the NYWC Hall of Fame. On November 12, 2016, wrestling as The Spirit Squad, Mondo and Doane captured the NYWC Tag Team Championship from Hounds of Hatred (Boo and Bam Sullivan) at Firestorm 3. 15 days later, Spirit Squad lost the titles back to Hounds of Hatred. The pair continued to compete as a tag team in the greater New York region throughout 2017 and 2018, and also traveled abroad to compete for Preston City Wrestling in England and Westside Xtreme Wrestling in Germany.\n\nIn early 2009, he returned to Ohio Valley Wrestling (OVW) both to wrestle and to be an assistant trainer. On February 7, 2009, he defeated Idol Stevens and Johnny Punch in a triple threat match to become the new OVW Television Champion. On March 21, Brendli failed a drugs test at an OVW event, and was suspended by the Kentucky Boxing and Wrestling Authority. He lost the OVW Television Championship to Jamin Olivencia on May 9. After postponing two hearings, he was suspended for six months and fined US$100 on June 29. On November 21, 2009, Mondo teamed with Turcan Celik to defeat Moose and Tilo for the OVW Southern Tag Team Championship. They held the championship for a week, before losing it to The Network on November 28. On May 29, 2010, at \"All or Nothing\", Mondo won the OVW Heavyweight Championship by defeating Beef Wellington. He later lost the championship to James Thomas on June 16. On March 5, 2011, Mondo regained the OVW Heavyweight Championship by winning a three-way ladder match, also involving Cliff Compton and \"Low Rider\" Matt Barela. Mondo was stripped of the championship on May 4, after attacking OVW president Danny Davis. On November 2, at OVW's \"episode 637\", Christian Mascagni prevented Mondo from winning an eight-man melee, costing him a match for the OVW Heavyweight Championship.\n\nMondo appeared at Ring of Honor (ROH)'s \"Bluegrass Brawl\" event on July 22, where he lost to Delirious. He returned to ROH at the \"Ring of Honor Wrestling\" television tapings on December 9 and 10, defeating Grizzly Redwood the first night, before losing to Colt Cabana on December 10.\nIn late 2011, Brendli returned to Ring of Honor as a full-time member, under his 'Mike Mondo' personality. After a string of losses to begin his full-time ROH career, he eventually defeated Matt Taven. He then feuded with T.J. Perkins, whom he defeated in their first match together, but lost the second. Making his ROH pay-per-view debut at Border Wars, he teamed with the Young Bucks to lose to Perkins and The All Night Express of Kenny King and Rhett Titus. Following a draw with Davey Richards in May and a win over Mike Bennett at , he had his first title opportunity when he unsuccessfully challenged Kevin Steen for the ROH World Heavyweight Championship. Mondo won an ROH World Television Championship number one contendership six-man mayhem match, and faced Adam Cole for the championship at in a losing effort. Following the loss, Mondo defeated Kyle O'Reilly in a qualifying match for the 2012 Survival of the Fittest tournament, but lost in the final to Jay Lethal. At , Mondo lost to Mike Bennett, suffering a leg injury in the process which sidelined him for several months.\n\nMondo returned in March 2013, forming a tag team partnership with Grizzly Redwood and starting a feud with S.C.U.M.. At \"Supercard of Honor VII\", Mondo, B.J. Whitmer, Caprice Coleman, Cedric Alexander, and Mark Briscoe lost to five members of S.C.U.M.\n\nHe made a further return at television tapings in April 2017, when he and Kenny unsuccessfully challenged The Young Bucks for the ROH World Tag Team Championship.\n\nIn late 2016, Brendli, as Mikey, and Kenny returned to WWE for a short storyline with Dolph Ziggler (formerly Nicky in the Spirit Squad). On October 4, on \"SmackDown\", they utilised their Spirit Squad characters to taunt Ziggler about his time in the Spirit Squad, before attacking him at the behest of the Intercontinental Champion The Miz and Maryse. Five days later, at the No Mercy pay-per-view, he and Kenny attempted to distract Ziggler in his career vs. title match against The Miz, but were unsuccessful. On the October 11 episode of \"SmackDown\", Mikey and Kenny faced Ziggler in a two-on-one handicap match; Ziggler won but was attacked by The Miz before being saved by Rhyno and Heath Slater. This led to a six-man tag team match the following week, which Mikey, Kenny, and The Miz won. Mikey and Kenny unsuccessfully challenged Slater and Rhyno for the WWE SmackDown Tag Team Championship on October 25. They appeared throughout November in tag team matches, before disappearing off television.\n\nOn July 24, 2019, it was announced that Squad members Mondo and Kenny Dykstra were now signed to Major League Wrestling (MLW). They would go on to debut at that month's \"Never Say Never\" show.\n\nBrendli played football in middle and high school. Brendli is good friends with his former Spirit Squad teammate Nick Nemeth (better known as Dolph Ziggler), and the two lived together in Florida until 2008. On June 1, 2008, Brendli was arrested for driving under the influence in Florida. He was released the next day after posting US$500 bail.\n\n\n Mikey defended the championship with either Kenny, Johnny, Mitch, or Nicky under the Freebird Rule.\n\n"}
{"id": "1854179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854179", "title": "Standard Oil Co. of New Jersey v. United States", "text": "Standard Oil Co. of New Jersey v. United States\n\nStandard Oil Co. of New Jersey v. United States, 221 U.S. 1 (1911), was a case in which the Supreme Court of the United States found Standard Oil Co. of New Jersey guilty of monopolizing the petroleum industry through a series of abusive and anticompetitive actions. The Court's remedy was to divide Standard Oil into several geographically separate and eventually competing firms.\n\nBy the 1880s, Standard Oil was using its large market share of refining capacity to begin integrating backward into oil exploration and crude oil distribution and forward into retail distribution of its refined products to stores and, eventually, service stations throughout the United States. Standard Oil allegedly used its size and clout to undercut competitors in a number of ways that were considered \"anti-competitive,\" including underpricing and threats to suppliers and distributors who did business with Standard's competitors.\n\nThe government sought to prosecute Standard Oil under the Sherman Antitrust Act. The main issue before the Court was whether it was within the power of Congress to prevent one company from acquiring numerous others through means that might have been considered legal in common law, but still posed a significant constraint on competition by mere virtue of their size and market power, as implied by the Antitrust Act.\n\nOver a period of decades, the Standard Oil Company of New Jersey had bought up virtually all of the oil refining companies in the United States. Initially, the growth of Standard Oil was driven by superior refining technology and consistency in the kerosene products (i.e., product standardization) that were the main use of oil in the early decades of the company's existence. The management of Standard Oil then reinvested their profits in the acquisition of most of the refining capacity in the Cleveland area, then a center of oil refining, until Standard Oil controlled the refining capacity of that key production market.\n\nBy 1870, Standard Oil was producing about 10% of the United States output of refined oil. This quickly increased to 20% through the elimination of the competitors in the Cleveland area.\n\nAs in the case against \"American Tobacco\", which was decided the same day, the Court concluded that these facts were within the power of Congress to regulate under the Commerce Clause. The Court recognized that \"taken literally,\" the term \"restraint of trade\" could refer to any number of normal or usual contracts that do not harm the public. The Court embarked on a lengthy exegesis of English authorities relevant to the meaning of the term \"restraint of trade.\" Based on this review, the Court concluded that the term \"restraint of trade\" had come to refer to a contract that resulted in \"monopoly or its consequences.\" The Court identified three such consequences: higher prices, reduced output, and reduced quality.\n\nThe Court concluded that a contract offended the Sherman Act only if the contract restrained trade \"unduly\"—that is if the contract resulted in one of the three consequences of monopoly that the Court identified. A broader meaning, the Court suggested, would ban normal and usual contracts, and would thus infringe liberty of contract. The Court endorsed the rule of reason enunciated by William Howard Taft in \"Addyston Pipe and Steel Company v. United States\" (1899), written when the latter had been Chief Judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit. The Court concluded, however, that the behavior of the Standard Oil Company went beyond the limitations of this rule.\n\nJustice John Marshall Harlan concurred in the result, but dissented against adopting a \"rule of reason\". It departed from precedent that the Sherman Act banned any contract that restrained trade \"directly.\" He said the following:\n\nThe \"Standard Oil\" case resulted in the breakup of Standard Oil into 34 separate companies. Many of these have since recombined, particularly into ExxonMobil.\n\nWhile some scholars have agreed with Justice Harlan's characterization of prior case law, others have agreed with William Howard Taft, who concluded that despite its different verbal formulation, Standard Oil's \"rule of reason\" was entirely consistent with prior case law.\n\n\n\nPredatory Price Cutting: The Standard Oil (N. J.) Case\nJohn S. McGee\nJournal of Law and Economics\nVol. 1, (October, 1958), pp. 137–169\n\n"}
{"id": "1854181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854181", "title": "Picolit", "text": "Picolit\n\nPicolit (also known as Piccolit and Piccolito) is a white Italian wine grape grown in the Friuli Venezia Giulia region of northeast Italy. The grape is allowed in the \"Denominazione di origine controllata e garantita\" (DOCG) wines of Colli Orientali del Friuli. The grape is most commonly associated with sweet dessert wines often made in the \"passito\" style. Historically planted in poor and infertile vineyards, the grape gets its name from the very small stalk, which in friulian language is called \"pecolèt\" or \"pecolùt\". The grape had a worldwide reputation in the 18th century when it was featured in royal courts from Great Britain to the Russian Empire. While experiencing cult wine popularity in the 1960s & 1970s, Picolit's extremely small yields have made it economically difficult to grow and has limited the number of plantings.\n\nIt was assumed to be identical with the Hungarian grape variety Kéknyelű. But in 2006 isoenzymes and microsatellite analyses have confirmed that these two cultivars are different.\n\nWhile the exact origins of the grape are not clear, Picolit was well known internationally during the 18th century as a favorite of Count Fabio Asquini. The Count oversaw production of more than 100,000 bottles that was exported to the royal courts of the Holy Roman Empire, Great Britain, France, the Netherlands, Russia, Saxony and Tuscany as well as the Vatican. Asquini was a pioneer who left diligent notes on his growing and winemaking methods to coax the most out of the limited resources that the Picolit vine produces, but the difficulty in growing the vine led to a sharp decline in plantings. The Perusini family invested many resources during the 20th century to develop new clones that would be easier to cultivate but still retain the desirable characteristics of the grape. While a brief spike in popularity in the 1960s & 1970s did elevate the Picolit wine to cult wine status, the work of the Perusini family is credited with keeping the grape from extinction. The popularity of Picolit wine has led to the illegal practice of blending it with inferior quality Verduzzo to stretch the supply.\n\nThe Picolit grape balance of acidity and sugar lends itself well to dessert wine production. Both late harvest and \"passito\" styles are made. With \"passito\" wines, the Picolit grapes are normally harvested in mid-October and then dried to raisins on straw mats before pressing. The late harvest styles are picked several weeks later, just before the grapes raisin on the vine. After fermentation, the wine is aged-often in oak barrels. In addition to being served after dinner, the wine is also considered a \"vino da meditazione\" or apéritif that can be served alone. Picolit wines tend to be characterized by soft floral aromas with peach and apricot flavors.\n\nPicolit is also known under the synonyms Balafan, Balafant, Blaustengler, Blaustingl Weiss, Kel'ner, Peccoleto Bianco, Piccolet, Piccoletta, Piccolit, Piccoliti Bianco, Piccolito, Piccolito Bianco, Piccolito del Friuli, Piccolitt, Piccolitto, Piccolitto Friulano, Picoleto Bianco, Piculit, Pikolit, Pikolit Weiss, Piros Keknyelü, Ranful Weiss, Szabo Istvan, Szod Bajor, Uva del Friuli, Weisser Blaustingl, Weisser Ranful, and Wisellertraube Weiss, but none of these is present in Friuli and Italy, except \"Picolit\" which is the only guaranteed and protected name.\n\n"}
{"id": "1854184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854184", "title": "Steve Armstrong", "text": "Steve Armstrong\n\nSteven James (born March 16, 1965), better known by his ring name Steve Armstrong is a professional wrestler and is the son of \"Bullet\" Bob Armstrong. He has three brothers who also entered the wrestling business: Scott, Brad (who died in 2012) and Brian.\n\nSteve Armstrong started wrestling in 1983 in the Alabama-based \"Southeast Championship Wrestling\". He formed a team called the \"Rat Patrol\" with Johnny Rich and they feuded with Ron Fuller's Stud Stable (Jerry Stubbs and Arn Anderson).\n\nSteve formed a team with Tracy Smothers in \"Florida Championship Wrestling\" in 1987 called The Southern Boys. They won the Tag Team Titles and feuded with \"The New Breed\" (Chris Champion and Sean Royal). They went back to Continental Championship Wrestling (formerly SCW) and feuded with Robert Fuller and Jimmy Golden over the Tag Team Titles.\n\nIn July 1988 he made his debut in Japan for NJPW, mainly working with Tracy against the likes of Shinya Hashimoto, Masahiro Chono, Riki Choshu and even working in the main event against the legendary Antonio Inoki.\n\nIn 1990, The Southern Boys went to World Championship Wrestling and feuded with The Fabulous Freebirds (Michael Hayes and Jimmy Garvin). In 1991, they changed their name to The Young Pistols and they became heels and won the U.S. Tag Team Titles.\n\nIn 1992, Steve came to the WWF as Lance Cassidy under a babyface cowboy gimmick. He made his TV debut on the October 10, 1992 episode of Superstars, beating Tom Stone. The run proved to be short, as after only a few TV appearances and some house show victories over Skinner and Terry Taylor, he left the WWF in January 1993.\n\nIn 1993, he started to work for Jim Cornette's Smoky Mountain Wrestling. He worked in Smoky Mountain for two years and mainly worked in tag team competition with his brother Scott. In his last year with Smoky he was in a feud with Buddy Landel for the SMW Heavyweight Championship.\n\nOn April 25, 1995, he returned to work for WCW and wrestled Craig Pittman at a WCW Saturday Night episode. In July he began teaming with his brother Scott as The James Boys. At the July 10 taping of WCW Pro WCW Tag-Team Champions Bunkhouse Buck and Dick Slaytor defeated the duo in the debut match. A month later on the August 5 edition they fell to Arn Anderson and Ric Flair. On August 22 they faced Men at Work but were again unsuccessful. Steve made his return to PPV when he appeared at WCW World War III on November 26, 1995 when he competed in the three ring battle royal.\n\nAlthough back as a performer in WCW, he was mainly used as a jobber working with his brother Scott as The Armstrongs or James Brothers on Saturday Night, WorldWide and on rare occasions on Monday Nitro. On the February 17 edition of WCW Saturday Night they again fell to Men at Work. In June 1996 they were defeated by Public Enemy, and on the July 1 edition they were defeated again by Arn Anderson and Ric Flair. On the July 28, 1996 edition of WCW Worldwide they fell to Lord Steven Regal and Squire Dave Taylor. On the August 22 taping of WCW Pro The Armstrong Brothers would finally gain their first WCW victory when they defeated Bill Payne and Rick Thames. They would go on to face The Amazing French Canadians and The Faces of Fear during the remainder of 1996.\n\nThe Armstrong Brothers would continue teaming in 1997 and faced The Amazing French Canadians and The Steiner Brothers. On the April 13 edition of WCW Worldwide they defeated The Southern Posse. After this they moved on to a brief series of matches with Harlem Heat, and in May 1997 defeated the new duo of Jim Powers and Bobby Walker, the latter put together by Teddy Long. After this they were winless for the rest of 1997 in matches with Mortis and Wrath, as well as The Public Enemy. Their pairing continued into 1998 but again saw little success. They were winless against High Voltage in multiple encounters. On the September 13 PPV Fall Brawl 98 they were involved in an angle when WCW Worldwide announcer Mike Tenay attempted to interview them, only to be interrupted by Ernest Miller who then attacked both brothers. Thirteen days later they would defeat The Power Company on WCW Saturday Night. On November 30, 1998 the duo enjoyed the biggest victory of their WCW tenure when they upset Raven and Kanyon on WCW Monday Nitro.\n\nSuccess continued for The Armstrong Brothers in 1999. On January 6, they upset Alex Wright and Disco Inferno in Mobile, AL. On the January 9 edition of WCW Saturday Night they defeated Nick Dinsmore and Mike Sullivan. The winning streak was stopped in April on WCW Saturday Night when they were defeated by Disorderly Conduct. On April 27, at a television taping in Bismarck, ND they faced the NWO for the first time and defeated Vincent and Stevie Ray. On April 29, on WCW Monday Nitro the team faced Raven in a handicap match and were victorious. Scott's teaming with Steve finally came to an end on March 1, 2000, when The James Brothers faced WCW World Tag-Team Champions Big Vito and Johnny The Bull at a WCW Saturday Night taping.\n\nOn March 29, 2000 Steve made his last TV appearance for the promotion as he lost to Hugh Morrus on Saturday Night.\n\nAfter his run with WCW he made a few appearances for the resurrected Continental Championship Wrestling from 2002 to 2005.\n\nIn August 2002 he worked under The Bullet mask for TNA Wrestling, having a match with Jeff Jarrett.\n\nIn October 2005 he had match with Elix Skipper for the NWA Wrestle Birmingham in the Boutwell Memorial Auditorium.\n\nIn December 2008 he had a tag team match alongside his father against Aaron James and Michael Patrick for the Great American Wrestling Federation.\n\n"}
{"id": "1854212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854212", "title": "Brantford Red Sox", "text": "Brantford Red Sox\n\nThe Brantford Red Sox are an independent team of the Intercounty Baseball League based in Brantford, Ontario. They play their home games at Arnold Anderson Stadium.\n\nThe Brantford Red Sox were founded in 1911 when they joined the Canadian Baseball League.\n\nIn 1915 the league folded due to World War I, and after a short hiatus the team played in the Michigan-Ontario League from 1919 to 1922. After another break they joined the Ontario League in 1930, which folded due to the Great Depression. Brantford first joined the Intercounty Baseball League in 1921 but not under the name \"Red Sox\"(that name was in use by the Brantford team in the Michigan-Ontario League). It was in 1946 when Brantford first had a team named the Red Sox in the I-C (intermediate division). \n\nIn 1921 they joined the Intercounty Baseball League. They won the championship 15 times.\n\nWon the Pennant 11 times.\nLondon, Ontario-born left-handed pitcher, Ron Stead, for example, led Brantford to five league titles (1960-1963, 1965) and was inducted into the Canadian Baseball Hall of Fame on June 24, 2006, in St. Marys, Ontario. Stead also won an Intercounty title with the Guelph C-Joys in 1970.\n\nA legend of the Intercounty loop, Stead is first in all-time wins (104), strikeouts (1,231), shutouts (25), most appearances (198), most innings pitched (1,365) and complete games (116). Stead was a 10-time All-Star and four-time MVP (1960, 1963, 1965 and 1967). He was also the starting pitcher for Team Canada at the 1967 Pan American Games in Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada.\n\nOn August 25, 2006, the Brantford Red Sox won the Intercounty title for the first time since 1981 by defeating the London Majors 7-3 in Brantford before 2,000 fans at Arnold Anderson Stadium in Cockshutt Park.\n\nBrantford, which finished third in the standings during regular season play, came on strong during the second half of the regular season and the playoffs. In the championship series, the Red Sox defeated the London Majors four games to one.\n\nThe 2006 IBL championship team includes: Jason Gotwalt, Lee Delfino, Adam Clarke, Al Stephens, Dave Parsons, Hyung Cho, Ryan Brickman, Chris Baker, Adam Vella, Wayne Forman, Raul Borjas, Brad Hogeterp, Mike Anderson, Mark Ferguson, Josh McCurdy, Steve Murray, Tyler Moe, Stefan Strecker, John Ogiltree, Aaron Boag, Tyler Burnell, Adrian Kerr, John Axford, John Mariotti, Min Soo Kim and manager/ vice-president of baseball operations Rick Johnston.\n\nIn November 2013, Former owner Paul Aucoin of The Brantford Red Sox announced that the ownership was being transferred to Lee Delfino. Delfino remained owner for the next 3 years. In 2017, Rick and Connie Pomerleau became the new owners.\n\n"}
{"id": "1854226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854226", "title": "Commonwealth Shakespeare Company", "text": "Commonwealth Shakespeare Company\n\nCommonwealth Shakespeare Company (CSC) was formed in 1996 by artistic director Steven Maler and associate Joan Moynagh to bring free, outdoor Shakespeare to the people of the city of Boston. Since 1996, CSC has produced one full Shakespeare production each summer starting with \"A Midsummer Night's Dream\" in 1996 at Copley Square. All subsequent productions have taken place in Boston Common, first at the Parkman Bandstand and now at the Parade Ground. In addition to the annual Boston Common productions, CSC presents several free play-reading events during the year: Theatre in the Rough, Shakespeare and Law, as well as Shakespeare and Leadership. CSC has actor-training programs for both high school students and pre-professional actors with its Summer Academy. Throughout the year, CSC partners with area high schools and Boys & Girls Clubs to provide in and after-school theater activities to inner-city youth. In 2013, CSC became the theatre in residence at Babson College.\n\n\n\"Shakespeare at Fenway\" (2014) - the first live theatre at Fenway Park featuring local and national actors\n\n\"Happy Days\" (2014) - starring Brooke Adams and Tony Shalhoub\n\nOur American Hamlet (2017)\n\nThe CSC Apprentice Program is an intensive summer training program for young professionals who are pursuing a career in theatre. Apprentices are given understudy roles for mainstage productions, plus their own production of one of Shakespeare's plays.\n\n"}
{"id": "1854228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854228", "title": "Mike Gallego", "text": "Mike Gallego\n\nMichael Anthony Gallego (born October 31, 1960) is an American former professional baseball player and current coach. He played in Major League Baseball (MLB) as an infielder from 1985 to 1997, most notably as a member of the Oakland Athletics team that won three consecutive American League pennants and a World Series championship in . He also played for the New York Yankees and the St. Louis Cardinals. After his playing career, Gallego served as a major league coach.\n\nGallego was born in Whittier, California of Mexican descent and attended St. Paul High School in Santa Fe Springs, California. He was the Athletics starting second baseman during their three-year run of American League Championships from 1988 through 1990, which included a World Series sweep in 1989 against their Bay Area rivals, the San Francisco Giants. Throughout his career, he was known more for his glove than his bat. In 1990, he led the AL in sacrifice hits with 17. He had 28 hits without an extra-base hit in 1995, still the post-1912 non-pitcher record. Gallego's 12 home runs in 1991 set a career high.\n\nWhile playing with the Yankees from 1992 to 1994, Gallego was the last player to wear the uniform number 2 prior to the Yankees' former All-Star shortstop, Derek Jeter.\n\nGallego closed out his career with the Cardinals in 1996 and 1997, where he once again played under Tony La Russa, his manager while with the A's.\n\nBefore playing professionally, he graduated from St. Paul High School, where he lettered in baseball and football, and then attended the University of California, Los Angeles (1978–81, history major). Gallego represented the United States at the 1979 Pan American Games.\n\nGallego was named the Colorado Rockies third base and infield coach in December 2004 to October 7, 2008. He was hired as the A's third base coach and infield instructor during the 2008 offseason. He was dismissed on August 24, 2015.\n\nOn November 25, 2015, Gallego was announced as director of baseball development for the Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim. He was promoted to third base coach for the 2019 season, and to bench coach prior to the 2020 season.\n\nGallego and his wife Caryn have three children, Joe, Niko and Ali. His son Niko also played for UCLA baseball and was signed with the Arizona Diamondbacks on July 2010. Niko helped the Bruins to the Championship Series of the 2010 College World Series, where they lost to South Carolina for the national championship. Following his graduation from UCLA, Niko began playing for the Visalia Rawhide of the California League. He is the uncle of Los Angeles Dodgers catcher Austin Barnes.\n\n"}
{"id": "1854230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854230", "title": "Respublika (Kazakh newspaper)", "text": "Respublika (Kazakh newspaper)\n\nRespublika (Russian: ) or Golos Respubliki (Voice of the Republic) was a weekly Russian-language Kazakhstani newspaper. Founded by Irina Petrushova in 2000, the paper is known for its reporting on government corruption. It was ordered to closure in 2002 and in May 2005 by the Ministry of Culture, Information and Sports, but continued to publish under a variety of titles. In late 2012, before the anniversary of the Mangystau riots, Kazakhstani authorities raided and searched \"Respublika\"'s office and again suspended its publication, pending a verdict on criminal charges.\n\nRussian journalist Irina Petrushova founded \"Respublika\" in 2000. The weekly focused on covering business and economic issues in Kazakhstan, and frequently published stories highly critical of Nazarbayev's regime. The paper wrote about financial scandals and rampant nepotism and cronyism. Scandals the paper exposed included the granting of oil rights to one of Nazarbayev's relatives; the disappearance of funds for an airport in the capital, Almaty; and the Kazakhstani police forcing tourists off a plane so that Nazarbayev's daughter might fly alone. \"Respublika\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s most notable story was an exposé which revealed that Nazarbayev had stashed US$1 billion of the state's oil revenues in a Swiss bank account; the government stated that this had been an emergency fund used to rescue the national economy in 1998.\n\nIn November 2001, a government representative unsuccessfully attempted to buy a controlling stake in \"Respublika\". In January 2002, Kazakhstani printers began to refuse to print the paper, one after a human skull was placed on his doorstep.\n\nA mid-March 2002 court order to stop printing for three months, was evaded by printing under other titles, such as \"Not That Respublika\".\n\nPetrushova bought a digital copier so that \"Respublika\" could do its own printing, but then the paper's offices became the target of intimidation and threats. On International Women's Day, a funeral wreath was mailed to Petrushova. On another occasion, a decapitated dog was hung from \"Respublika\" building with a screwdriver sticking into its side and a note reading \"there will be no next time\"; the dog's head was left outside Petrushova's home. Three days after the dog incident, the papers' offices were firebombed and burned to the ground. In July, Petrushova was given an eighteen-month jail sentence on tax charges, but served no time after a judge ruled that the case fell under an amnesty.\n\nPetrushova eventually left the country for Russia, where she continued to publish via the Internet, living apart from her family for their safety. In recognition of her work, Petrushova was awarded a 2002 International Press Freedom Award by the Committee to Protect Journalists, a US-based NGO.\n\nIn November 2012 \"Respublika\" was again ordered closed, \"along with seven sister titles and 23 news websites, plus another opposition newspaper and a satellite TV station [...] for ‘propagating extremism’, inciting unrest and urging the overthrow of the government.\" Reporters Without Borders described this as a \"pretext\" and said it would be the end of pluralism in Kazakhstan.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1854231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854231", "title": "Jenkins Committee on Company Law", "text": "Jenkins Committee on Company Law\n\nThe Jenkins Committee on Company Law was a Company Law Committee, chaired by Lord Jenkins and formed under the tenure of John Rodgers (Parliamentary Secretary to the Board of Trade). It was formed in November 1959 with terms of reference \"To review and report upon the provisions and workings of\": the Companies Act 1948; the Prevention of Fraud (Investments) Act 1958 and Registration of Business Names Act 1916 \n\nAspects covered included takeovers; the duties of directors and the rights of shareholders \n\nIn January 1960 the committee invited comment on a range of subjects including: Incorporation of Companies and Memoranda of Association. \n\nIt reported in 1962.\n"}
{"id": "1854233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854233", "title": "Vinger", "text": "Vinger\n\nVinger is a traditional district and a parish as well as being a former municipality in Kongsvinger in Innlandet, Norway. The parish of Vinger (\"Vinger sogn\") was established as a municipality on 1 January 1838 (see formannskapsdistrikt).\n\nIn 1855, Kongsvinger was separated from Vinger to form a distinct municipality. After this partition Vinger had a population of 10,947 whereas Kongsvinger had 472. In 1864, Eidskog was separated from Vinger, resulting in a population of 6,226. On 1 January 1876 a part of Vinger containing 209 inhabitants was transferred to Kongsvinger. On 1 January 1964 Vinger together with Brandval, was merged with Kongsvinger municipality. As this took place Vinger had a population of 6,257.\n\nVingar is located on the south side of the Glomma River, opposite the city of Kongsvinger. The village is located on European route E16 which connects the village to Oslo approximately, a distance of about 75 km.\n\nVinger Church (\"Vinger kirke\") is a white painted wooden cruciform church dating from 1697. It features an onion domed bell tower dating from 1855. The church was constructed in cruciform and has a seating capacity of 618. The square in front of the church was originally parade ground, but is now used for parking.\nThe church was rebuilt in 1854–1855 at which time the church got its onion-shaped dome. Vinger church was painted white in 1868–1869.\n\nVinger has a subarctic climate (Dfc). September averages 9.7, falling just short of being the 4th month over 10 to fulfill the requirement for a humid continental climate (Dfb). \n\nThe Old Norse form of the name was \"Vingr\". This word could be related to the word swing (for the missing s see Indo-European s-mobile): The river Glomma passes through the center of the district where the south-flowing river takes a sharp northwestward turn. (Compare the Lithuanian word \"vìngis\" m 'bend, bow, turn'.)\n\nNotable people that were born or lived in Vinger include:\n"}
{"id": "1854235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854235", "title": "Central Organisation of the Workers of Sweden", "text": "Central Organisation of the Workers of Sweden\n\nCentral Organisation of the Workers of Sweden (in Swedish: \"Sveriges Arbetares Centralorganisation, SAC - Syndikalisterna\") is a syndicalist trade union federation in Sweden. Unlike other Swedish unions, SAC organises people from all occupations and industries in one single federation, including the unemployed, students, and the retired. SAC also publishes the weekly newspaper \"Arbetaren\" (\"the Worker\"), owns the publishing house Federativs and runs the unemployment fund Sveriges Arbetares Arbetslöshetskassa (SAAK).\n\nThe SAC's long-term goal is to realize libertarian socialism, a society without classes and hierarchies, where the means of production are owned commonly and administrated by the workers: in effect, abolition of capitalism, wage slavery, and sexism. As such, SAC is an anti-sexist and anti-militarist organisation, which in 1998 also became the first Swedish openly feminist trade union. Short-term goals are improved salaries and working environments. It frequently cooperates with other libertarian socialist organisations, such as the Swedish Anarcho-syndicalist Youth Federation (SUF), although SUF is not a part of SAC.The SAC was founded in 1910 by disgruntled members of the Social Democratic LO trade union central after its failure to carry out a Swedish General Strike, and were joined by large sections of the youth wing of the Swedish Social Democratic Party, who also had come under the influence of the revolutionary syndicalism of the French Confédération Générale du Travail. In 1922 the newly formed union confederation also became founding member organisation of the anarcho-syndicalist International Workers Association; however, conflicts erupted between the organisations in the 1950s as SAC set up a state-supported unemployment fund, something which the IWA regarded as state collaboration and reformist. From 1956 and onwards the SAC stopped paying its membership fees to the IWA, effectively letting its affiliation lapse. Today the SAC is affiliated with the Red and Black Coordination, an international network of revolutionary syndicalist and anarcho-syndicalist unions.\nThe traditional strongholds of the SAC were primarily in the forestry, mining, and construction industries. Today the majority of the union's members are employed in the public sector, often working in sectors like railway and public transports, healthcare, and education, but many of the members can also be found in the restaurant, information technology, and logistics industries.\n\nDecisions should, according to SAC, be made by those whom it concerns and not by representatives or leaders. That is why they apply federalism, direct democracy and direct action. Decisions about negotiations, notices, offensive actions and agreements are ultimately made by the members of the operational sections. Decisions about using the battle funds are made by the Local Co-organisation (the members thereof, of course). Central notices about offensive action, strikes, and other things exist but they can be annulled locally by local instances. Central vetoes \"against\" conflict measures do not exist. Concentration of power is avoided by not letting SAC's employees be eligible for election to positions of confidence or as congress representatives.Most workplaces are today covered by collective agreements set up by Landsorganisationen, which apply not only to members of LO, but also other employees of the workplace in question. However, only members of LO are bound by LO's part of the agreement, which means that members of SAC - and, of course, other non-LO trade unions - are free to initiate offensive actions even if the current collective wage agreement includes a no-strike clause.\n\nThe SAC is structured along two parallel lines , one geographic and the other industrial, a result of influences from organization of the CGT at the time of the founding of the SAC.\n\n\nThe secretariat of SAC is located in the SAC house on Sveavägen 98, Stockholm. The closest subway station is the Rådmansgatan. The purpose of the secretariat is to co-ordinate the internal and external work of the organisation. \"Arbetaren\" and SAC's book publisher \"Federativs\" are to be found in the same house.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1854241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854241", "title": "Torstenson War", "text": "Torstenson War\n\nThe Torstenson war, Hannibal controversy or Hannibal War () was a short period of conflict between Sweden and Denmark–Norway from 1643 to 1645 towards the end of the Thirty Years' War. The names refer to Swedish general Lennart Torstenson and Norwegian governor-general Hannibal Sehested.\n\nDenmark had withdrawn from the Thirty Years' War in the Treaty of Lübeck (1629). After its victories in the war, Sweden felt it had to attack Denmark due to its advantageous geographical position in relation to Sweden. Sweden invaded in a short two-year war. In the Second Treaty of Brömsebro (1645), which concluded the war, Denmark had to make huge territorial concessions and exempt Sweden from the Sound Dues, \"de facto\" acknowledging the end of the Danish \"dominium maris baltici\". Danish efforts to reverse this result in the Second Northern, Scanian and Great Northern wars failed.\n\nSweden had been highly successful in the Thirty Years' War, having defeated Imperial armies in Germany and seen substantial victories under Gustavus Adolphus and after his death, under the leadership of Count Axel Oxenstierna, Lord High Chancellor of Sweden. At the same time, Sweden was continually threatened by Denmark–Norway, which almost completely encircled Sweden from the south (Blekinge, Scania and Halland), the west (Bohuslän) and the north-west (Jämtland). The Danish Sound Dues were also a continuing source of irritation and a contributing factor to the war. In the spring of 1643 the Swedish Privy Council determined that their military strength made territorial gains at the expense of Denmark likely. The Count drew up the plan for war and directed a surprise multi-front attack on Denmark in May.\n\nSwedish Field Marshal Lennart Torstensson was ordered to march against Denmark. Proceeding from Moravia, his forces entered Danish territory in Holstein on 12 December and by the end of January 1644 the Jutland peninsula was in his possession. In February 1644, the Swedish General Gustav Horn with an army of 11,000 men occupied much of the Danish provinces of Halland and Scania, except for the fortress town of Malmø.\n\nThis attack caught Denmark unaware and poorly prepared but King Christian IV retained his presence of mind. He placed his confidence in the fleet to protect the home islands, just winning the Battle of Colberger Heide on 1 July 1644 but suffering a decisive defeat in the Battle of Fehmarn on 13 October 1644 against a Dutch–Swedish fleet. He also counted on the forces of Norway to relieve the pressures on Danish provinces in Scania by attacking Sweden along the Norwegian–Swedish border.\n\nNorway, governed by Christian's son-in-law, Governor-General Hannibal Sehested, was a reluctant participant. The Norwegian populace opposed an attack on Sweden, which would only leave them open to counter-attack. Their opposition to Statholder Sehested’s direction grew bitter and the war was lampooned as the \"Hannibal War.\" The Danes cared little for Norwegian public sentiment when Denmark was threatened and Jacob Ulfeld initiated an attack into Sweden from Norwegian Jemtland. He was driven back and Swedish troops temporarily occupied Jemtland and advanced into the Norwegian Østerdal before being driven back. \n\nSehested had made preparations to advance with his own army and a similar army under Henrik Bjelke into Swedish Värmland but was ordered to relieve the King in the Danish attack on Gothenburg. When Sehested arrived the King joined his fleet and performed heroically, even though wounded, preventing Torstensson’s army from moving onto the Danish islands. On the Norwegian front, Sehested attacked and destroyed the new Swedish city of Vänersborg. He also sent Norwegian troops under the command of George von Reichwein across the border from Vinger and Eidskog and troops under Henrik Bjelke into Swedish Dalsland.\n\nChristian's Danish forces were so exhausted that he was forced to accept the mediation of France and the United Provinces in suing for peace. The Peace of Brömsebro was signed on 13 August 1645, a humiliating disaster to Denmark–Norway. The Swedes were exempted from the Sound Dues, the toll for passing through Danish territory into the Baltic Sea. Denmark–Norway ceded to Sweden the Norwegian provinces of Jemtland, Herjedalen and Idre & Serna and the strategically valuable Danish islands of Gotland (Valdemar Atterdag of Denmark had conquered the island from Sweden in 1361) in the center of the Baltic and Øsel in the Baltic Sea. In Dalarna the landshövding (chief of the land i.e. governor) raised a host of 200 dalecarlian farmers who seized the region of Särna, making it de-facto Swedish territory. \nSweden occupied the Danish province of Halland as well as other territories for 30 years as a guarantee of the treaty. The Danish heir to the throne, Frederick II, Administrator of the Prince-Bishopric of Verden (1634–1645) and of the Prince-Archbishopric of Bremen (1635–1645), had to resign, with the two prince-bishoprics being occupied by the Swedes. According to the Peace of Westphalia both prince-bishoprics became a fief of the Holy Roman Empire to the Swedish crown in 1648.\n\n \n\nThe defeat of Denmark reversed the historic balance of power in the Baltic. Sweden gained domination of the Baltic, unrestricted access to the North Sea and was no longer encircled by Denmark–Norway. The surprise attack assured that Denmark–Norway now looked for an opportunity to recoup their losses, while Sweden looked for opportunities to expand further, setting the stage for continued conflict on the Baltic over the next century. With Denmark-Norway out of the war, Torstenson then pursued the Imperial army under Gallas from Jutland in Denmark south to Bohemia. At the Battle of Jankau near Prague, the Swedish army defeated the Imperial army under Gallas and could occupy Bohemian lands and threaten Prague, as well as Vienna.\n\n"}
{"id": "1854243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854243", "title": "1968 Warwick and Leamington by-election", "text": "1968 Warwick and Leamington by-election\n\nThe by-election in Warwick and Leamington, in Warwickshire, England, occurred on 28 March 1968, after the death of the Conservative MP Sir John Hobson and resulted in a hold for the Conservatives.\n"}
{"id": "1854245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854245", "title": "Royal Marriage", "text": "Royal Marriage\n\nRoyal Marriage is a Patience game using a deck of 52 playing cards. The game is so called because the player seems to remove anything that comes between the Queen and the King of the same suit for them to \"marry.\"\n\nThe Queen of the chosen suit (traditionally the Queen of Hearts) is placed immediately on the table face-up while her corresponding King is placed face-down. The remaining fifty cards are shuffled and placed on the top of the King to form the stock. Cards are dealt from the stock one at a time to the right of the Queen. If a pair of cards with either the same rank or suit are separated by one or two cards, the in-between cards may be discarded. This may result in new opportunities to discard additional cards.\n\nStrategy revolves around decisions of whether to discard cards or not. It may be advantageous to retain as many cards of the Queen's suit as possible, as these may be easily eliminated by the King or Queen at any tie, but may be helpful in eliminating other cards.\n\nThe game is won when the King and Queen are brought together -- that is, when only one or two cards remain in between them, which can then be discarded.\n\nRoyal Marriage is possible to play in-hand, rather than on a surface such as a table. In this case, the deck is held face-down in one hand, with the King being uppermost face-down card and the Queen being held face-up above it. Cards are played from the bottom of the deck onto the Queen, and fanned out to show all cards that could possibly affect play.\n\nAlternatively, the Queen can be played on one end of a surface, and all cards dealt out at the beginning to the Queen's right, ending with the King. This allows for an additional measure of strategy: being able to view the entire sequence of cards allows the player to choose which cards to discard and in what order to ensure a win.\n"}
{"id": "1854260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854260", "title": "Pokhariya", "text": "Pokhariya\n\nPokhariya or Pokharia is a community from the Garkha region of Pithoragarh district in Indian state of Uttarakhand, India. Pokharia ruled from Khawankot.\n\n"}
{"id": "1854262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854262", "title": "Alasdair McDonnell", "text": "Alasdair McDonnell\n\nAlasdair McDonnell (born 1 September 1949) is an Irish politician who is a member of the Social Democratic and Labour Party (SDLP), and was its leader from 2011 to 2015. He was the Member of Parliament for Belfast South from 2005 to 2017 and also a Member of the Legislative Assembly of Northern Ireland for Belfast South from 1998 to 2015.\n\nMcDonnell's first involvement with politics came when he joined the National Democrats and stood as the party candidate in the 1970 election in North Antrim and lost to Ian Paisley.\n\nMcDonnell first won election to Belfast City Council in 1977, representing Belfast \"Area A\" which included the Short Strand and Upper Ormeau areas. He lost his council seat in a surprise result in 1981 but returned in 1985 and served as the first Catholic Deputy Mayor of Belfast in 1995–96.\n\nHe first stood for the Westminster constituency of South Belfast in the 1979 general election and subsequently contested the constituency at each subsequent general election, though not in the 1986 by-election (caused by the resignation of Unionist MPs in protest at the Anglo Irish Agreement). He was also elected from the constituency to the Northern Ireland Peace Forum in 1996 and the Northern Ireland Assembly in 1998 and 2003.\n\nIn 2004 he became his party's deputy leader. In the 2005 general election McDonnell generated one of the most sensational results in Northern Ireland when he won South Belfast, primarily due to a split in the unionist vote. He received 10,339 votes while the Democratic Unionist Party (DUP) candidate Jimmy Spratt received 9,104 votes and Ulster Unionist Party candidate Michael McGimpsey received 7,263 votes. He was then re-elected by an increased majority in the 2010 general election. On 5 November 2011, he was elected leader of the SDLP at its conference in Belfast, succeeding Margaret Ritchie.\n\nIn a 2012 interview with \"The News Letter\", McDonnell criticised Sinn Féin. He said the party were run along \"Soviet style\" lines where there was a military structure and where former terrorists were being placed into positions of power. He also claimed many people voting for Sinn Féin were doing so as an act of defiance.\n\nAs SDLP chief, McDonnell described the terms of the Sixth Periodic Review of Westminster constituencies, a seemingly blocked plan to reduce the number of MPs in the House of Commons by 50 (including two from Northern Ireland) to 600, as \"a bureaucratic numbers game initiated by the Tories for purely party political advantage\".\n\nIn June 2013, the SDLP abstained during the vote on the Civil Service (Special Advisers) Bill in Stormont, ensuring its passing. This led to claims from Sinn Féin that the SDLP was endorsing a 'hierarchy of victims' agenda and abandoning the principles of the Good Friday Agreement.\n\nDespite the reported claims from Sinn Féin that it was inevitable that someone would mount a legal challenge to \"what republicans view as a discriminatory law\" no such challenge has since emerged. In the 2015 United Kingdom general election he stood again in Belfast South and was returned on 24.5% of the vote, the lowest ever vote share recorded by a successful MP in any part of the UK.\n\nOn 14 November 2015, McDonnell lost the leadership contest held at the SDLP's annual conference. His successor as leader of the party, Colum Eastwood, won with 172 votes to the 133 that McDonnell received.\n\nOn 9 June 2017, McDonnell lost his South Belfast seat to Emma Little-Pengelly (DUP) in the 2017 general election.\n\n"}
{"id": "1854263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854263", "title": "Deniz Baykal", "text": "Deniz Baykal\n\nDeniz Baykal (born 20 July 1938) is a Turkish politician at the Republican People's Party (CHP) who served as Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs from 1995 to 1996. Having served in numerous government positions, Baykal led the CHP from 1992 to February 1995, from September 1995 to 1999 and again from 2000 to 2010. Between 2002 and 2010, he also served as the Leader of the Opposition by virtue of leading the second largest party in Parliament.\n\nFirst elected to Parliament in 1973, Baykal went on to serve as Minister of Finance in the CHP-MSP coalition of 1974 and as Minister of Energy and Natural Resources in the third government of Bülent Ecevit from 1978 to 1979. With the CHP shut down during the 1980 Turkish coup d'état, Baykal was briefly imprisoned before being elected to Parliament once again in 1987 from the new Social Democratic People's Party (SHP).\n\nBaykal was one of the leading members of the re-established CHP, which was founded again in 1992. He served as the party's leader until 1995, when the CHP and SHP merged during a convention. He was re-elected leader in September 1995, after which Baykal contested the 1995 general election and formed a coalition government with Tansu Çiller's True Path Party. He served concurrently as Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs between 1995 and 1996. Leading the CHP into a landslide defeat in the 1999 general election, Baykal resigned after the party was entirely ejected from Parliament for failing to surpass the 10% election threshold. Regardless, he was re-elected as leader in 2000 and led the party to a moderate success in the 2002 general election, becoming the Leader of the Opposition. He resigned as leader in 2010 after the release of a video of Baykal's private relationship with another CHP MP.\n\nAs the oldest MP in Parliament following the June 2015 general election, Baykal briefly served as the interim Speaker of the Grand National Assembly. He was the CHP's candidate to become the permanent Parliamentary Speaker for the 25th Parliament of Turkey in the June–July 2015 speaker elections, but lost to Justice and Development Party candidate İsmet Yılmaz. Following a breakdown of coalition talks after the election, Baykal was offered a ministerial position in the subsequent interim election government formed by AKP leader Ahmet Davutoğlu, which he turned down in line with the party executive's decision. He became interim parliamentary Speaker for a second time on 17 November 2015 by virtue of being the oldest MP after the November 2015 general election. He was succeeded by the AKP MP İsmail Kahraman, who was elected Speaker on 22 November 2015.\n\nBaykal was born to Hüseyin Hilmi and Feride in Antalya. He was educated at the University of Ankara Faculty of Law. He later studied at the University of California, Berkeley and Columbia University as a Rockefeller scholar. Following this, he has completed his Ph.D. by 1963 at the University of Ankara Faculty of Political Science. He became an Associate Professor at the same faculty, where he lectured until 1973.\n\nBaykal first become involved in politics during the 1950s, having taken part in student movements opposing the Democratic Party government of Adnan Menderes. He was noticed by senior officials of the CHP after writing a detailed analysis of the party's defeat in the 1965 general election, which would form the basis of his academic thesis that he submitted to become a docent. In the 1973 general election, he was elected as a CHP Member of Parliament for Antalya. At the time of his election, he was the youngest MP in Parliament.\n\nIn the short-lived coalition government of Bülent Ecevit that had been formed with the Islamist National Salvation Party led by Necmettin Erbakan, Baykal become the Minister of Finance. His tenure would last under a year, with the unlikely partnership between the secular-orientated CHP and the Islamist-orientated MSP collapsing in November 1974.\n\nBaykal become the Minister of Energy and Natural Resources in the third cabinet of Bülent Ecevit, which lasted from January 1978 to November 1979. The government had a narrow vote of confidence in Parliament due to a loose coalition with independent MPs, the Democratic Party and the Republican Reliance Party. Despite the government maintaining a small majority, the CHP lost ground in the Senate and by-elections held in October 1979, causing Ecevit to resign.\n\nAt the same time as serving as Energy and Natural Resources Minister, Baykal was also elected to the CHP Party Council and served as both a Central Executive Committee member and a deputy Secretary General of the party. In the party convention held after the disappointing 1979 senate and by-elections, he was heavily critical of the party's established executive.\n\nLike many politicians of the 1970s, Baykal was arrested and detained in Ankara, receiving a ban of five years by the military on political activities. Baykal joined the Social Democracy Party SODEP in 1984. In a constitutional referendum held in 1987, the electorate voted to lift all political bans of the coup-era. As a result, Ecevit, Süleyman Demirel and other key politicians of the pre-1980 era returned to politics alongside Baykal.\n\nSODEP merged with the Social Democratic People's Party (SHP) in 1987 and Baykal was elected again as a MP from Antalya in 1987 general elections. He was elected to the second chair of the Social Democratic People's Party as the General Secretary in 1988 and served as the party's parliamentary group leader. He stood as General secretary on 10 September 1990, after which he stood against the party's leader Erdal İnönü three times but failed to win on all occasions. He became the leader of the inner-party opposition to the leadership.\n\nDuring this period, he served as the co-president of the Turkey-European Union inter-parliamentary committee and was a member of the parliamentary foreign policy committee.\n\nIn 1992, with the abandonment of laws prohibiting the re-foundation of former political parties, he led a significant movement and re-established the historical Republican People's Party (CHP), which had been closed down by 1980 military regime. He was elected as the leader of the party.\n\nThe CHP had entered the 1994 local elections with the political left split between the CHP, SHP and the Democratic Left Party (DSP) of Bülent Ecevit. In a party convention held in February 1995, the CHP formally merged with the SHP, while the DSP refused to consider a merger. Baykal did not stand for the leadership in this convention, with Hikmet Çetin being elected leader of the newly enlarged CHP instead.\n\nBaykal was re-elected as leader of the CHP during a convention in September 1995. He formed a coalition with the True Path Party (DYP), with DYP leader Tansu Çiller as Prime Minister. Baykal subsequently became Deputy Prime Minister and the minister of Foreign Affairs. His one condition for going into coalition was holding an early election, which happened in December 1995. The CHP came fifth with just 10.71% of the vote, and the DYP-CHP coalition lost their majority in Parliament.\n\nDespite their poor election performance, Baykal was reelected as leader during the CHP convention of 27 February 1998. In the 1999 general election, the CHP scored below the 10% election threshold needed to win seats in Parliaments, resulting in all CHP MPs being ejected from the chamber. Baykal subsequently resigned as leader and Altan Öymen was elected in his place. However, he stood again for the leadership against Öymen in the 2000 extraordinary convention, being elected for a third time as CHP leader.\n\nBaykal led the CHP through the 2002 general election, where the party won 19.38% of the vote and came second. The newly formed Justice and Development Party (AKP), meanwhile, won a landslide majority in Parliament and put an end to years of unstable coalition governments. Baykal subsequently became the leader of the opposition, leading the only opposition party in Parliament. All other parties had fallen short of the 10% boundary, leaving the AKP with 363 and the CHP with 178 seats in the 550-seat Grand National Assembly.\n\nBaykal was instrumental in assisting the AKP change the law in order to allow the party's banned leader, Recep Tayyip Erdoğan, to enter Parliament. Erdoğan had been banned from public office due to religious intolerance, with the AKP needing 367 votes in Parliament to change the law in Erdoğan's favour. The CHP supported the change and Erdoğan was elected to Parliament in a by-election in 2003, subsequently taking over from Abdullah Gül as Prime Minister.\n\nBaykal has always held his ground as a staunch supporter of a strong response to terrorism.\n\nLeading his party through the 2004 local elections, the CHP managed to increase their vote share but lost further ground, losing control of Antalya, Baykal's hometown, to the AKP. As a result, the Mayor of İstanbul's Şişli district, Mustafa Sarıgül, challenged Baykal for the leadership in an extraordinary convention in January 2005. Although Baykal won the election, the convention was marred by violence between supporters of the two opposing candidates, with Sarıgül being expelled from the party afterwards. He first joined the DSP, but later formed the Turkish Change Movement in 2009.\n\nBaykal strongly protested the AKP's nomination of Abdullah Gül as their presidential candidate for the 2007 presidential election, owing to Gül's history in political Islam. The CHP held several Republic protests to rally against the parliamentary process, with CHP MPs boycotting the election process. Due to the 67% quorum needed to elect a President, the AKP was unable to elect Gül without the CHP being in attendance. As a result, an early general election was scheduled for July 2007.\n\nBaykal joined forces in an electoral alliance with the DSP in time for the 2007 general election, though the two parties combined only marginally improving on their 2002 result, winning 20.88% of the vote. Due to the Nationalist Movement Party (MHP) surpassing the 10% threshold, the CHP's seats dropped considerably from 178 to 112. 13 of the 112 MPs were from the DSP, meaning the CHP on its own held 99 MPs in Parliament. However, many DSP MPs joined the CHP after being elected. With the help of the MHP and DSP, Gül was elected President despite also suffering a loss in their share of the seats (down from 363 to 341), as there was a quorum of 67% this time.\n\nThe CHP's moderate vote share increase continued through the 2009 local elections, in which the party won 23.08% of the vote and won back control of Antalya. The AKP lost further ground, most likely due to the 2008 global financial crash occurring a year before the election. Despite presiding over an increase of the CHP's vote share in all elections he contested since 2002, he failed to win any of them.\n\nHe resigned from the leadership of CHP on May 10, 2010. This was due to criticism of his private life after an alleged video-tape showing him in the same bedroom with his former secretary, and a member of parliament Nesrin Baytok, was leaked to the media. He originally planned to run for the leadership again in the Ordinary Convention of 2010, since many members of the Central Executive Committee insisted that he retake his position as leader. However, with many provincial branch leaders of the CHP endorsing Kemal Kılıçdaroğlu instead, Baykal refused to run for re-election and Kılıçdaroğlu was elected unopposed.\n\nBaykal was re-elected as an MP in the 2011 and the June 2015 general election. Since he was the oldest member of the newly elected Parliament after the 2015 election, he became the temporary parliament speaker on 23 June 2015. He was the CHP's candidate to become the permanent Parliamentary Speaker for the 25th Parliament of Turkey. He contested the June–July 2015 speaker elections, but lost to Justice and Development Party candidate İsmet Yılmaz in the final round with 182 votes to Yılmaz's 258 on 1 July 2015.\n\nBaykal was one of the five CHP politicians who were offered ministerial positions by Justice and Development Party leader Ahmet Davutoğlu in August 2015. Davutoğlu had been tasked by President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan to form an interim election government after coalition negotiations proved unsuccessful and resulted in Erdoğan calling an early election. Since the CHP had 131 MPs during the formation of the interim government, the party was entitled to 5 ministries in the cabinet, though Kılıçdaroğlu announced that the CHP would not take part and give up their five ministries to independent politicians. Baykal subsequently declined Davutoğlu's offer, as did the four other CHP MPs that had been offered ministerial positions. His letter of declination was three pages long and was described by himself as an 'equivalent of a historical document'.\n\nRe-elected as an MP in the November 2015 general election, Baykal was once again the oldest MP in the newly elected 26th Parliament of Turkey and subsequently became interim Speaker of the Parliament on 17 November 2015. He was succeeded by İsmail Kahraman, the AKP's candidate for Speaker, who was elected on 22 November 2015 in the third round. The CHP's candidate this time round had been Ayşe Gülsün Bilgehan, the granddaughter of former President İsmet İnönü.\n\n"}
{"id": "1854268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854268", "title": "Hiett Prize", "text": "Hiett Prize\n\nThe Hiett Prize in the Humanities is an annual award aimed at identifying candidates who are in the early stages of careers devoted to the humanities and whose work shows extraordinary promise and has a significant public component related to contemporary culture.\n\nThe opposite of a lifetime achievement award, the Hiett Prize seeks to encourage future leaders in the humanities by 1) recognizing their early accomplishment and their potential and 2) assisting their ongoing work through a cash award of $50,000.\n\nThe Hiett Prize was endowed by Kim Hiett Jordan, a Lifetime Board Member of the Dallas Institute, to honor her parents, who inspired in her a lifelong love of learning.\n\nDr. Christopher Lebron is Associate Professor of Philosophy at Johns Hopkins University. He received his Ph.D. from Massachusetts Institute of Technology in the fields of Social Theory and Political Philosophy. His work currently focuses on political philosophy, social theory, the philosophy of race, and democratic ethics. His first book, \"The Color of Our Shame: Race and Justice In Our Time\", published in 2013 by Oxford University Press, won the American Political Science Association Foundations of Political Theory First Book Prize. His next book, \"The Making of Black Lives Matter: A Brief History of An Idea, will be published in October 2018, also by Oxford UP, and presents an\" intellectual history of the Black Lives Matter movement, tracing its origins and connecting it to the long tradition of the struggle for freedom and equal rights for African Americans that includes such figures as Frederick Douglass, Ida B. Wells, Langston Hughes, Zora Neal Hurston, James Baldwin, and Martin Luther King Jr. Professor Lebron writes articles and book reviews regularly for such publications as \"The New York Times\", the \"Boston Review\", and \"The Chronicle of Higher Education\".\n\n2017 Hiett Prize in the Humanities Recipient, Dr. James Matthew Wilson has been on a spiritual and intellectual quest since his undergraduate days at the University of Michigan: to discover for himself—and to recover for Western culture—the sense of purpose and meaning largely disavowed and abandoned in our skeptical age. As he puts it, the fruits of his work thus far “are my effort to draw out the implications for our lives of the essential truth, goodness, and beauty of reality as a whole.”After earning an M.F.A. in Creative Writing and a Ph.D. in English Literature and Irish Studies from Notre Dame University, he began his tenure at Villanova University, where he is currently Associate Professor of Religion and Literature. A widely published, award-winning poet, scholar, and public intellectual, James has written numerous essays and articles and several books, including \"The Vision of the Soul: Truth, Goodness, and Beauty in the Western Tradition\" (2017) and \"Some Permanent Things\", a collection of his published poems (2014).\n\n2016 Hiett Prize Winner, Alia Malek was born in the U.S. of Syrian parents who planned to return to their homeland but instead began an unplanned life in diaspora as immigrants. Alia earned a Bachelor of Arts degree at Johns Hopkins and a Juris Doctorate at Georgetown University Law Center. For several years her legal work in civil rights took her to Washington, the West Bank, and Lebanon. In 2006, she received a master's degree in Journalism from Columbia University and entered her writing career in earnest. After living and writing anonymously for two years in Damascus, Alia returned to the U.S. for the launch of \"Al Jazeera America\". She is author of \"A Country Called Amreeka: U.S. History Re-told Through Arab American Lives\" and editor of \"Patriot Acts: Narratives of Post-9/11 Injustices\". Her book \"The Home That Was Our Country: A Memoir of Syria\" was published in 2017.\n\nDr. Scott Samuelson studied philosophy at Grinnell College (BA, 1995, valedictorian) and Emory University (PhD, 2001).  Since 2000 he has taught at Kirkwood Community College in Iowa.  In 2014 he was named Distinguished Humanities Educator by the Community College Humanities Association.  Inspired by his students, he wrote his first book The Deepest Human Life: An Introduction to Philosophy for Everyone (University of Chicago Press, 2014), which has been well received not just by prominent reviewers but by numerous non-philosophers who found their philosophical voice with its help.  The book is currently being translated into Chinese and Portuguese.  Samuelson also writes movie reviews for Little Village and hosts \"Ethical Perspectives on the News\", a Sunday-morning talk show on KCRG, the local ABC affiliate. For a decade he moonlighted as a sous-chef at Simone's Plain and Simple, a French restaurant on a gravel road.  He's published articles in the Wall Street Journal, the Huffington Post, the Chronicle of Higher Education, \"The Philosopher’s Magazine\", and \"Christian Century\".  His article “Why I Teach Plato to Plumbers” in \"The Atlantic\" has been widely circulated.  He's been interviewed on NPR and given various public lectures and talks, including a TEDx talk “How Philosophy Can Save Your Life.”  On top of his job at Kirkwood, he teaches philosophy at the Iowa Medical and Classification Center (a.k.a. Oakdale Prison).  He's currently working on his second book, \"Seven Ways of Looking at Pointless Suffering.\"\n\nDr. Jared Farmer is an associate professor of history at Stony Brook University. Through writing and photography, he illuminates the hidden histories of landscapes and habitats.\n\nFarmer earned a B.A. from Utah State University, an M.A. from the University of Montana, and a Ph.D. from Stanford University. He has been the recipient of fellowships from the Stanford Humanities Center, the Huntington-USC Institute on California and the West, the National Humanities Center, the American Council of Learned Societies, and the Tanner Humanities Center at the University of Utah.\n\nHis book \"On Zion’s Mount: Mormons, Indians, and the American Landscape\" (Harvard University Press, 2008) won five prizes, including the Francis Parkman Prize from the Society of American Historians for the best-written non-fiction book on an American theme, a literary award that honors the “union of the historian and the artist.”\n\nHis latest book, \"Trees in Paradise: A California History\" (W. W. Norton, 2013), received a John Brinckerhoff Jackson Book Prize from Foundation for Landscape Studies. Farmer maintains a Facebook page devoted to the Golden State's treescape and dreamscape, and he tweets off and on.\n\nFarmer frequently gives guest lectures and radio interviews. His essays and reviews have appeared in publications such as Science, Environmental History, Reviews in American History, High Country News, Western American Literature, and Religion Dispatches. He has also self-released three e-books, including \"The Image of Mormons: A Sourcebook for Teachers and Students\" (2013).\n\nCurrently he is working on two book projects: \"Ancient Trees in Modern Times\" (a history of the long search for the world's oldest living thing, and a meditation on the future of long-lived trees in the Anthropocene) and \"The Aerial View\" (a global study of aerial photography, aerial surveillance, satellite imagery, and remote sensing).\n\nFor more information, visit Farmer's website, which includes photographic portfolios and occasional blog entries.\n\nDr. William Deresiewicz is a full-time writer whose essays and commentaries about cultural issues, higher education, books, politics, and other subjects have gained international attention. His work has been translated into fifteen languages and anthologized in numerous books and college readers, and his essay “The Disadvantages of an Elite Education” has been read over one million times. He has published two books—Jane Austen and the Romantic Poets (Columbia University Press, 2005) and A Jane Austen Education: How Six Novels Taught Me About Love, Friendship, and the Things That Really Matter (Penguin, 2012), which is currently under development as a television series. His third, , comes out in August 2014 from Free Press.\n\nHe is a contributing writer for The Nation and a contributing editor for The New Republic and The American Scholar, for which he wrote a weekly “All Points” blog on culture and society from 2011-2013. His essays and reviews have also appeared in The New York Times, Slate, Bookforum, The Chronicle of Higher Education, The New Yorker online, and The London Review of Books. He was nominated for National Magazine Awards in 2008, 2009, and 2011 and won the National Book Critics Circle's Nona A. Balakian Citation for Excellence in Reviewing in 2012.\n\nHe is a frequent speaker on college campuses, and his essay “Solitude and Leadership” has been taught across the US military, in the corporate world, at schools of business, and at the Aspen Institute. Before becoming a full-time writer, he was an English professor at Yale University from 1998-2008, where he taught courses in modern British fiction, the Great Books, Indian fiction, and writing. He returned to college life in Fall 2013, when he served as a William F. Podlich Distinguished Fellow at Claremont McKenna College. There, he led workshops on public writing for students and faculty and visited with students and classes. In 2015, he returned to the Claremont Colleges as the Mary Routt Endowed Chair of Writing at Scripps College.\n\nHe earned his B.A. in biology-psychology (1985), M.A. in journalism (1987), and Ph.D. in English (1998) all from Columbia University.\n\nFor more information about Dr. William Deresiewicz, visit his website.\n\nDr. Elizabeth D. Samet holds a Ph.D. in English Language and Literature from Yale. She is a professor of English at the United States Military Academy at West Point, where she has taught since 1997. Her books include Willing Obedience: Citizens, Soldiers and the Progress of Consent in America,\n\n1776-1898 and Soldier's Heart: Reading Literature Through Peace and War at West Point, which won the Los Angeles Times Book Prize for Current Interest and was named one of The New York Times's 100 Notable Books of 2007. A new book, No Man's Land: Preparing for War and Peace in Post-9/11 America, which will be released in November 2014 by Farrar, Straus and Giroux. She is also editing an anthology, Leadership: Essential Writings by Our Greatest Thinkers, which will be published by Norton next spring.\n\nHer essays and reviews have appeared in various venues, including The New York Times Magazine, The New York Times Book Review, and The New Republic. She has also appeared on the NewsHour with Jim Lehrer, NPR, and the BBC World Service. Professor Samet was awarded a Guggenheim Fellowship in 2011, which helped support the research and writing of her current book project, Crimes of Odysseus: Imagining Postwar America, which traces mythologies of the war veteran in American culture, specifically in Hollywood cinema.\n\nDr. Diana Senechal holds a Ph.D. in Slavic Languages and Literature from Yale University, with a dissertation on Nikolai Gogol. Her translations of the Lithuanian poetry of Tomas Venclova have been published in two books: Winter Dialogue (1997) and The Junction (2008). Her book Republic of Noise: The Loss of Solitude in Schools and Culture was released in January 2012 by Rowman & Littlefield Publishing Group and was named an Outstanding Academic Title of 2012 by Choice; a paperback edition appeared in March 2014. Her education writing has appeared in Education Week, The New Republic, Double X, American Educator, Educational Leadership, and several leading education blogs, including Gotham Schools, The Answer Sheet (The Washington Post), Joanne Jacobs, The Core Knowledge Blog, and The Cronk of Higher Education. She also writes on her own blog. Her future projects include a study of the worship of change in American culture; an exploration of the teaching of Sophocles’ Antigone from coast to coast; and an analysis of Gogol's stories for a general audience.\n\nSenechal has contributed to several education projects. She helped with the editing and documentation of Diane Ravitch's most recent book, The Death and Life of the Great American School System (Basic Books, 2010). In December 2009, she served on the English Language Arts Work Team for the Common Core State Standards Initiative; in 2010 she was project writer and curriculum drafter for the Common Core Curriculum Mapping Project. In addition, she contributed to the Thomas B. Fordham Institute's report The State of State Standards—and the Common Core—in 2010.\n\nFrom 2005 to 2009, and from 2011 onward, Senechal has taught and served as curriculum adviser in New York City public schools. She teaches philosophy at Columbia Secondary School for Math, Science, & Engineering, and in February 2014 her students published the inaugural issue of a philosophy journal, CONTRARIWISE. She previously taught Russian as a graduate student at Yale and as a Mellon Fellow at Trinity College in Hartford.\n\nSenechal has spoken on numerous radio programs and at venues around the U.S. In 2012, she delivered the principal address at the Annual Meeting of the National Association of Schools of Music; in 2013, she was a keynote speaker and panelist at the Annual Meeting of the National Association of Schools of Art and Design. In April 2014, she took part in a discussion of solitude on BBC World Service's program The Forum.\n\nShe is a Fellow of the Dallas Institute and a member of PEN, ALSCW (Association of Literary Scholars, Critics, and Writers), and PLATO (Philosophy Teaching and Learning Organization). In July 2011, she joined the faculty of the Dallas Institute's Sue Rose Summer Institute for Teachers.\n\nIn addition to writing and teaching, Dr. Senechal enjoys reading in various languages, playing cello, tackling unfamiliar subjects, rereading favorite literature, and memorizing poetry. She lives in Brooklyn.\n\nFor more information about Dr. Diana Senechal, visit her website.\n\nDr. Mark Oppenheimer is a freelance writer, an editor, a lecturer in the English and Political Science departments as well as the Divinity School of Yale University, and the coordinator of the Yale Journalism Initiative. He received his B.A. in history from Yale in 1996 and earned his Ph.D. in Religious Studies, also from Yale, in 2003, receiving the John Addison Porter Prize for Best Dissertation in the Humanities. Dr. Oppenheimer is author of three books: Knocking on Heaven's Door: American Religion in the Age of Counterculture, Thirteen and a Day: The Bar and Bat Mitzvah Across America, and, most recently, Wisenheimer: A Childhood Subject to Debate. In 2003, he was the first Koret Young Writer on Jewish Themes at Stanford University; he has also taught at Wesleyan, Hartford Seminary, and New York University. In 2010-2011 he taught creative writing at Wellesley College as the Robert Garis Visiting Fellow in Writing.\n\nHe presently writes a biweekly “Beliefs” column about religion for The New York Times, a column about fatherhood for The New Republic, and maintains a blog. His freelance writing on topics such as politics, urbanism, and family has appeared in Harper's, The New York Times Magazine, The American Scholar, Slate, Details, Salon, Mother Jones, The New Yorker, and elsewhere. In 2000 and 2001, Oppenheimer was religion writer for the Hartford Courant, and from 2004 to 2006 he was the editor of the New Haven Advocate, an alternative weekly paper. He is an editor of The New Haven Review and an occasional commentator on NPR.\n\nHis most recent publication is The Zen Predator of the Upper East Side, an e-book published in a new series from The Atlantic about sex abuse in Zen Buddhism. He self-published an e-book titled Dan Savage: The First Gay Celebrity in 2012.\n\nIn the school year 2014-2015, Dr. Oppenheimer will be the Corcoran Visiting Professor of Jewish-Christian Relations at Boston College. He is currently writing about gender dynamics within the atheist and freethought movements and the problem of divorce in orthodox religious communities. He lives in New Haven, Conn., with his wife, four daughters, and two dogs.\n\nDr. James E. McWilliams is a historian, writer, and Professor of History at Texas State University-San Marcos. In 2007-2008 he was an Associate Fellow in the Program in Agrarian Studies at Yale University. His interests center on American history, with specializations in environmental, agricultural, and economic history. He is the author of five books: The Pecan: A History of America's Favorite Nut (University of Texas Press, 2013), Just Food: Where Locavores Get It Wrong and How We Can Truly Eat Responsibly (Little, Brown, 2009), A Revolution in Eating: How the Quest for Food Shaped America (Columbia University Press, 2005), Building the Bay Colony: Economy and Society in Early Massachusetts (University of Virginia Press, 2007), and American Pests: The Losing War on Insects from Colonial Times to DDT (Columbia University Press, May 2008).\n\nIn addition to writing academic books, McWilliams publishes frequently in the popular press, including The New York Times, Harper's, The Washington Post, Slate, The American Scholar, and The Texas Observer. He is a frequent contributor to Freakonomics.com, Conservation, Pacific Standard, Laika Magazine, and The Dodo, and from 2009-2012 he was an online columnist on food issues for The Atlantic Monthly. His literary non-fiction has appeared in The Millions, Quarterly Conversation and The New York Times Book Review. He also blogs regularly on his website.\n\nCurrent projects include two books. One, tentatively titled A Graceful Distance: The Cultural Origins of Factory Farming in the United States (Cornell University Press), explores the transformation of the human-farm animal relationship that provided the cultural and psychological foundation for large-scale animal agriculture in the nineteenth century. The second, tentatively titled Modern Savage: Our Unthinking Decision to Eat Animals (St. Martin's), investigates the hidden ethical, environmental, and economic problems with small scale animal agriculture today, insisting that a plant-based diet is the most effective answer to the problems of industrial animal agriculture.\n\nHe holds a B.A. in philosophy from Georgetown University (1991), an M.Ed. from Harvard University (1994), an M.A. in American studies from the University of Texas (1996) and a Ph.D. in history from Johns Hopkins University (2001). He lives in Austin with his wife, Leila Kempner, and two children.\n\nDr. David Greenberg is Associate Professor of History and of Journalism & Media Studies at Rutgers University, New Brunswick. In Spring 2014 he was a Visiting Associate Professor of History at Columbia University. He specializes in American political and cultural history. His first book, Nixon's Shadow: The History of an Image (W.W. Norton, 2003) won the Washington Monthly Annual Political Book Award, the American Journalism History Award, and Columbia University's Bancroft Dissertation Award. Calvin Coolidge (Henry Holt), a biography for the American Presidents Series, published in December 2006, appeared on the Washington Post's list of best books of 2007. Presidential Doodles (Basic Books, 2006) was widely reviewed and featured on CNN, NPR's “All Things Considered,” and CBS's “Sunday Morning.” He is currently working on a book project for W.W. Norton, tentatively titled Republic of Spin: Architects and Critics of the Modern Presidency, about the history of political spin. In 2010-2011, Professor Greenberg conducted research on this topic as a fellow at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars in Washington, DC.\n\nHe has written for numerous scholarly and popular publications, including The New York Times, The Washington Post, The Atlantic Monthly, The New Yorker, Foreign Affairs, The Journal of American History, Reviews in American History, and Daedalus. He was a regular contributor to the online magazine Slate, where he wrote the “History Lesson” column from 1998-2012 and other occasional reviews and essays. Formerly a full-time journalist, he served as Acting Editor and Managing Editor of The New Republic, where he remains a contributing editor.\n\nIn 2008, he was awarded the Rutgers University Board of Trustees Research Fellowship for Scholarly Excellence. He has been recognized with award and fellowships from other organizations, including the American Academy of Arts & Sciences, the White House Historical Association, and the Mrs. Giles R. Whiting Foundation.\n\nHe holds a BA, summa cum laude and Phi Beta Kappa, in History from Yale University (1990) and a Ph.D. in History from Columbia University (2001).\n\nDr. Tiya Miles is the former Chair of the Department of Afroamerican and African Studies and professor in the Department of American Culture, Department of History, Department of Women Studies, and Native American Studies Program at the University of Michigan. She previously taught in the Department of Ethnic Studies at the University of California, Berkeley. Her research and creative interests include African American and Native American interrelated and comparative histories (especially 19th century); Black, Native, and U.S. women's histories; and African American and Native American women's literature; as well as public history, public humanities, and environmental humanities. In 2011, she was one of 22 “geniuses” awarded a MacArthur Foundation Fellowship.\n\nHer first book, Ties That Bind: The Story of an Afro-Cherokee Family in Slavery and Freedom, was published by the University of California Press in 2005 and received four awards from historical, humanities, American studies, and Native American studies associations, including the Frederick Jackson Turner prize from the Organization of American Historians for the best first book in American history and recognition from the Native American and Indigenous Studies Association as one of the ten most influential books of the first decade of the twenty-first century. Her second book, The House on Diamond Hill: A Cherokee Plantation Story, was published by the University of North Carolina Press in 2010, and was awarded three historical book prizes including the best book award from the National Council on Public History. She is the co-editor, with Sharon P. Holland, of Crossing Waters, Crossing Worlds: The African Diaspora in Indian Country (2006).\n\nDr. Miles has appeared on various NPR programs to discuss her research and to comment on contemporary issues regarding race and American culture. She has written commentary for The New York Times, CNN In America, and the Huffington Post on issues ranging from Cherokee racial politics to Black History Month, to Detroit public land. She has also worked on a variety of public history projects, which can be seen on her website.\n\nTiya is the founder of ECO Girls—Environmental and Cultural Opportunities for Girls in Urban Southeast Michigan—which she developed in 2005 after becoming concerned with environmental issues and climate change following Hurricane Katrina. She received a Mellon Foundation New Directions Fellowship in 2013 and used the fellowship to study environmental history at Montana State University.\n\nShe received her A.B. in Afro-American Studies from Harvard University (1992), her M.A. in Women's Studies from Emory University (1995), and her Ph.D. in American Studies from the University of Minnesota (2000).\n\nFor more information about Dr. Tiya Miles, visit her website.\n\nDr. Hilaire Kallendorf is Professor of Hispanic and Religious Studies at Texas A&M University, where she also directs the doctoral program for the Department of Hispanic Studies. She holds a Ph.D. in Comparative Literature from Princeton University. She was a postdoctoral research fellow at UCLA and an American Council of Learned Societies/Andrew W. Mellon Junior Faculty Fellow. In addition to the 2006 Hiett Prize in the Humanities, she has been awarded a Howard Foundation Mid-Career Fellowship from Brown University along with other research grants from the Renaissance Society of America, the Bibliographical Society of America, the Ford Foundation, Spain's Ministry of Culture, and the National Endowment for the Humanities.\n\nHer research and teaching deal with many aspects of religious experience, especially as belief relates to literature and culture. She is the author of three academic monographs, Exorcism and Its Texts: Subjectivity in Early Modern Literature of England and Spain (University of Toronto Press, 2003); Conscience on Stage: The Comedia as Casuistry in Early Modern Spain (University of Toronto Press, 2007); and Sins of the Fathers: Moral Economies in Early Modern Spain (University of Toronto Press, 2013). She is general editor of A New Companion to Hispanic Mysticism (Leiden: Brill, 2010), which won the 2011 Bainton Book Prize for Reference Works from the Sixteenth Century Society, and co-author with Cliff Richey of a memoir, Acing Depression: A Tennis Champion's Toughest Match (Washington, D.C.: New Chapter Press, 2010). She translated Spanish Baroque poet Francisco de Quevedo's Silvas into English (Lima, Peru: Universidad Nacional Mayor de San Marcos, 2011) and has coordinated a translation team for two volumes of poetry by living Chilean poet David Rosenmann-Taub. Her edited volume A Companion to Early Modern Hispanic Theater (Brill, 2014)was selected for inclusion in the Renaissance Society of America's new Texts and Studies.\n\nShe has also published articles in peer-reviewed journals on such topics as self-exorcism, piety and pornography, ghosts, Taíno religious ceremonies, and Christian humanism in the Renaissance, as well as entries on Spain, Spanish Literature, Miguel de Cervantes, and Hispanic Mysticism for the Renaissance and Reformation edition of the Oxford Bibliographies Online. Most recently she was commissioned by the Renaissance Society of America to edit A Companion to the Spanish Renaissance.\n\nBrad S. Gregory is Professor of History and Dorothy G. Griffin Collegiate Chair at the University of Notre Dame, where he has taught since 2003. He also serves as Director of the Notre Dame Institute for Advanced Study. From 1996-2003 he taught at Stanford University, where he received early tenure in 2001. He was the recipient of two teaching awards at Stanford and has received three more at Notre Dame. He specializes in the history of Christianity in Europe during the Reformation era and on the long-term influence of the Reformation era on the modern world. Before teaching at Stanford, he earned his Ph.D. in history at Princeton University (1996) and was a Junior Fellow in the Harvard Society of Fellows (1994–96). He also has two degrees in philosophy from the Catholic University of Louvain, Belgium (1984, 1987) as well as an M.A. in history from the University of Arizona (1989).\n\nGregory's first book, Salvation at Stake: Christian Martyrdom in Early Modern Europe Dr. Brad Gregory(Harvard, 1999), received six book awards. He has also edited The Forgotten Writings of the Mennonite Martyrs (Brill, 2002) and co-edited Seeing Things Their Way: Intellectual History and the Return of Religion (Notre Dame, 2009). His most recent book is a wide-ranging reinterpretation of the making of the modern Western world entitled The Unintended Reformation: How a Religious Revolution Secularized Society (Belknap, 2012). In addition to a short book on why history matters and another about the relationships among different sorts of knowledge, he is currently working on a history of conceptions of human nature from the Middle Ages to the present, the tentative title of which is “Embodied Souls and Their Rivals.”\n\nOutside his study and the classroom, Gregory is an avid road cyclist and sings bass in the Notre Dame Basilica Schola. He is a sports-loving calligrapher who appreciates fine food and good wine.\n"}
{"id": "1854270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854270", "title": "Rainout", "text": "Rainout\n\nA rainout is the process of precipitation causing the removal of radioactive particles from the atmosphere onto the ground, creating nuclear fallout by rain. The rainclouds of the rainout are often formed by the particles of a nuclear explosion itself and because of this, the decontamination of rainout is more difficult than a \"dry\" fallout.\n\nA rainout could occur in the vicinity of ground zero or the contamination could be carried aloft before deposition depending on the current atmospheric conditions and how the explosion occurred. The explosion, or burst, can be air, surface, subsurface, or seawater. An air burst will produce less fallout than a comparable explosion near the ground due to less particulate being contaminated. Detonations at the surface will tend to produce more fallout material. In case of water surface bursts, the particles tend to be rather lighter and smaller, producing less local fallout but extending over a greater area. The particles contain mostly sea salts with some water; these can have a cloud seeding effect causing local rainout and areas of high local fallout. Fallout from a seawater burst is difficult to remove once it has soaked into porous surfaces because the fission products are present as metallic ions which become chemically bonded to many surfaces. For subsurface bursts, there is an additional phenomenon present called \"base surge\". The base surge is a cloud that rolls outward from the bottom of the subsiding column, which is caused by an excessive density of dust or water droplets in the air. This surge is made up of small solid particles, but it still behaves like a fluid. A soil earth medium favors base surge formation in an underground burst. Although the base surge typically contains only about 10% of the total bomb debris in a subsurface burst, it can create larger radiation doses than fallout near the detonation, because it arrives sooner than fallout, before much radioactive decay has occurred. For underwater bursts, the visible surge is, in effect, a cloud of liquid (usually water) droplets with the property of flowing almost as if it were a homogeneous fluid. After the water evaporates, an invisible base surge of small radioactive particles may persist.\n\nMeteorogically, snow and rain will accelerate local fallout. Under special meteorological conditions, such as a local rain shower that originates above the radioactive cloud, limited areas of heavy contamination just downwind of a nuclear blast may be formed.\nRain on an area contaminated by a surface burst changes the pattern of radioactive intensities by washing off higher elevations, buildings, equipment, and vegetation. This reduces intensities in some areas and possibly increases intensities in drainage systems; on low ground; and in flat, poorly drained areas.\n"}
{"id": "1854275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854275", "title": "Wide Angle", "text": "Wide Angle\n\nWide Angle is the debut studio album by Welsh breakbeat group Hybrid. It was released to critical acclaim, described by \"The Times\" as \"one of the most moving pieces of electronic music ever\". The album was re-released in 2000 as a double-CD edition entitled Wider Angle.\n\nThe core Hybrid duo of Mike Truman and Chris Healings cooperated with Lee Mullin to create the dance music backbone of the album, with a mix of progressive breakbeat, techno, trance and house. However, they were joined by a wide array of musical personnel for this expansive, literally symphonic album. Orchestral parts were performed by the Russian Federal Orchestra, conducted by Sacha Puttnam, who was also responsible for the orchestral arrangements. Julee Cruise, best known for the theme of \"Twin Peaks\", supplied vocals on several songs, and Soon E MC added French rapping to \"Sinequanon\".\n\nIn 2000, the album was re-released as a double CD package, labelled \"Wider Angle\". The second CD, titled \"Live Angle\", featured a live set with Alex Madge on drums and Jamie Griffiths on turntables, and several singles, including \"Kid 2000\" with Chrissie Hynde.\n\nThe US version had 13 tracks and the tracks were mixed differently.\n"}
{"id": "1854278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854278", "title": "Brad S. Gregory", "text": "Brad S. Gregory\n\nBrad Stephan Gregory (born 1963) holds the Dorothy G. Griffin Chair in the Department of History at the University of Notre Dame. Gregory is a full professor of history at Notre Dame, where he is the Director of the Notre Dame Institute for Advanced Studies. Together with Randall Zachman, Gregory also serves as the North American editor of the Archive for Reformation History.\n\nBorn in Woodstock, Illinois, on May 28, 1963, Gregory received a BS in history from Utah State University; BA and licentiate degrees in philosophy from the Higher Institute of Philosophy of the Catholic University of Leuven, Belgium; an MA in history from the University of Arizona; and a PhD in history from Princeton University. At Arizona Gregory worked under Heiko Oberman. At Princeton, he studied under Anthony Grafton.\n\nPrior to taking his position at Notre Dame, he was a Junior Fellow in the Harvard Society of Fellows and an Assistant Professor of History at Stanford University.\n\nAwards and fellowships received by Gregory include the Walter J. Gores Award, Stanford's highest teaching honor, and the Dean's Award for Distinguished Teaching in the School of Humanities and Sciences at Stanford.\n\nHe is the author of numerous scholarly articles. His book \"Salvation at Stake: Christian Martyrdom in Early Modern Europe\" has won six awards, including the 1999 Thomas J. Wilson Prize as the best first book published by the Harvard University Press and the California Book Award Silver Medal for Nonfiction. In 2012 he wrote the widely acclaimed book \"The Unintended Reformation\".\n\nGregory received the Hiett Prize in 2005.\n"}
{"id": "1854284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854284", "title": "Bellvue, Colorado", "text": "Bellvue, Colorado\n\nBellvue is an unincorporated community and U.S. Post Office in Larimer County, Colorado. It is a small agricultural community located in Pleasant Valley, a narrow valley just northwest of Fort Collins near the mouth of the Poudre Canyon between the Dakota Hogback ridge and the foothills of the Rocky Mountains. The ZIP Code of the Bellvue Post Office is 80512.\n\nThe community is lush area on the south side of the Cache la Poudre River, at the mouth of Rist Canyon, concealed from the open Colorado Piedmont near Fort Collins and LaPorte by the Bellvue Dome, also known as \"Goat Hill\". The valley formerly stretched southward between the hogback and foothills into the area now inundated by Horsetooth Reservoir. The main agriculture in the valley is cultivation of hay and other crops, as well as cattle and horse ranches. The Colorado Division of Wildlife maintains a large trout hatchery in the valley just north of the Bellvue town site.\n\nPaleoindian sites nearby, including a large bison kill site along the Poudre River, indicate human habitation dating back over 10,000 years. In the early 19th century, the area was inhabited by bands of Arapaho, who clashed regularly in small skirmishes with bands of the Ute tribe who inhabited the mountains. Archaeological remains of teepee rings can be found in the surrounding foothills.\n\nThe first white settlers arrived in the valley soon after Antoine Janis became the first white settler in northern Colorado in 1858. The farm and pasture lands were squatted upon in the two years that followed, so that most was claimed by G.R. Sanderson, one of these first settlers, who built the first irrigation ditch in the county in June 1860. The ditch was the second one constructed in northern Colorado. Sanderson sold his claim to J.H. Yeager in 1864, and the ditch came to be known as the Yeager ditch.\n\nAnother early settler, Samuel Bingham, settled on the west slope of Bingham Hill in 1860. In 1860, Abner Loomis, who was also an early prominent resident of Fort Collins, settled on a ranch in the valley. Other early settlers in the 1860s included Benjamin T. Whedbee, Perry J. Bosworth, C.W. Harrington, and Louis Blackstock.\n\nIn 1873, Jacob Flowers arrived in the valley and set up a homestead on a parcel of land he purchased from Joseph Mason. Flowers had migrated westward from Ohio and Missouri after the Civil War and had settled temporarily in Greeley in 1872. The following year, Flowers followed the Poudre upstream and founded the town of \"Bellevue\" later that year (the name was later shortened).\n\nThe area was considered desirable by the Union Pacific Railroad because of the many stone quarries in the area near the town of Stout (now flooded by Horsetooth Reservoir). The influx of railroad workers to work the quarries prompted Flowers to open a general store, saloon, barber shop, and post office. In 1880 he built a one-story sandstone structure to house his business. The Bellvue Post Office opened in the building on June 24, 1884. The building served as the local general store and post office up through the middle 20th century, when it became the meeting house of Cache la Poudre Grange, Chapter 456 of the Colorado State grange, a designation for which it is now commonly known.\n\nFlowers also constructed a track and bandstand south of town that was used for horse racing, community celebrations, traveling medicine shows, and dog and pony shows.\n\nBellvue is located at (40.625679,-105.171089).\n\nHistory of Larimer County, Colorado, Ansel Watrous (1911).\n"}
{"id": "1854292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854292", "title": "2000 in Swedish football", "text": "2000 in Swedish football\n\nThe 2000 season in Swedish football, starting January 2000 and ending December 2000:\n\nPrint\n\nOnline\n"}
{"id": "1854300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854300", "title": "Wilson McLean", "text": "Wilson McLean\n\nWilson McLean (born 1937) is a Scottish illustrator and artist. He has illustrated primarily in the field of advertising, but has also provided cover art for music albums, sports magazines (including Sports Illustrated), a children's book, and other commercial endeavors.\n\nWilson McLean began his career in a London silkscreen studio at fifteen years of age and to date has won most major illustrator awards in the United States. Born in Scotland, he moved to London at the age of ten where he attended St. Martins and the Central School at night while working on the staff of magazines and design studios. This exposed him to the work of American illustrators as well as painters and convinced him that eventually he would go to America. Two years of national service stopped him painting for that period to time. He then went back to the design studios in Fleet Street for a few years doing little of interest, but working on his own drawings at night.\n\nAt twenty-three, Wilson moved to Copenhagen and the beginning of a freelance career, he also married a Norwegian woman, after a year they moved to Spain, then home to London where he quickly established himself, working with publishing houses, advertising agencies and magazines. \n\nHe then decided the time was right for New York. 1965 was the year he came to New York for six weeks to try his luck. The first week an agent took him on and he got his first commission from \"The Saturday Evening Post\" which he did in a borrowed studio, that was followed by three more magazine jobs which he took back to London.\n\nReturning in 1966 with wife and child, he moved to the Upper West Side thinking this would continue as before, but although this was a very creative time in New York and there was no shortage of work in general, McLean experienced several lean years before gaining a reputation. He realized he did not yet have a signature style and point of view and the competition was fierce, so after a couple of years or so experimenting with different mediums and observing more concept oriented pictures, gradually he accomplished a breakthrough in 1973 with important work for \"Look Magazine\", \"Sports Illustrated\" and \"Playboy\".\n\nHis diligence paid off and he worked for a wide variety of clients from advertising, movie posters, record covers, Time Magazine covers, book jackets, annual reports, etc. McLean’s awards include several silver and gold medals at the Art Directors Club of New York plus the prestigious Clio for television commercials for Eastern Airlines. He won nine silver and four gold medals over the years at the Society of Illustrators in NY and in 1980 the Hamilton King Award for best in show, and gold that same year at the Los Angeles Art Directors Show.\n\nIn 1974 he met and later married Rosemary Howard, an ex-model turned photographer. They shared a loft/studio in the Flatiron District of Manhattan and split their time between Southampton and NYC. The Society of Illustrators Gallery in NYC gave him a one-man show in 1978 and a few years later he went to Zurich two summers running to work on lithographs ending in a show of work there in 1984. During the years he has participated in group shows in New York and other parts of the country. He is represented at the National Portrait Gallery at the Smithsonian Institution in Washington, D.C., as well as the National Air and Space Museum in D.C., and in the London Transport Museum’s permanent poster collection. In 1985, to commemorate European Music Year, the Royal Mail commissioned him to design and illustrate five stamps for a special edition of British composers, and he designed a set of four stamps for the US mail illustrating the Broadway musical \"Oklahoma!\" around that same time.\n\nMcLean contributed to an exhibition and book for the United Nations environmental program entitled Art for Survival.\n\nA children's book called \"If The Earth.. were a few feet in diameter\" published by the Greenwich Workshop Press which features eighteen paintings is his only experience with that genre. In the year 2000, for the Millennium, the United Kingdom’s postal service commissioned a stamp, one of a number produced by such people as David Hockney and Eduardo Paolozzi.\n\nHis teaching has included Syracuse University, The School of Visual Arts, guest workshops at Savannah College of Art and Design, Ringling College of Art and Design in Florida, as well as workshops throughout the United States.\n\nIn 2000 he and his wife moved to Hudson, New York from Long Island and Manhattan. Mclean now lives full-time in Hurley, NY\n\nIn 2007, McLean had a show of work at the John Davis Gallery in Hudson, New York. And in 2009 a show of Italian landscapes at the Conrad L. Mallett Gallery in Hartford, Connecticut. The Society of Illustrators in 2010 inducted McLean into the Hall of Fame. In 2011 McLean designed and painted the Earth Day poster which the State Department in Washington, D.C. produces each year. In 2011 he was interviewed for the National Endowment for the Arts Art Works blog.\n"}
{"id": "1854308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854308", "title": "Wudang t'ai chi ch'uan", "text": "Wudang t'ai chi ch'uan\n\nWudang t'ai chi ch'uan (武當太極拳) is the name of a system of t'ai chi ch'uan (taijiquan) that was developed by a Hong Kong based t'ai chi ch'uan master known as Cheng Tin hung. While Cheng Tinhung never claimed to be teaching any particular school of t'ai chi ch'uan, his uncle was a disciple of the Wu school of t'ai chi ch'uan, which may or may not have had some influence on his own approach to the art.\n\nThe Wudang t'ai chi ch'uan system is now being taught in Europe by two of Cheng Tinhung's disciples, Dan Docherty and Ian Cameron, both based in the United Kingdom. The system also continues to be taught in Hong Kong, and the current head of that school is Cheng Tinhung's son Cheng Kam Yan (鄭鑑恩), whose school is called the \"Hong Kong Tai Chi Association\" (香港太極總會) and 太極傳承 Tai Chi Heritage (http://www.hktaichi.com/).\n\nZhang Sanfeng, a highly mythologised figure said to be the founder of t'ai chi ch'uan, lived in the Wudang Mountains and the name \"Wudang\" used for this T'ai chi ch'uan system was used in order to acknowledge Zhang Sanfeng's status as the founder of t'ai chi ch'uan. There are other schools of T'ai chi ch'uan that also use this name.\n\nThe Wudang t'ai chi ch'uan system is also known as “Practical T'ai chi ch'uan”. This name comes from that given to Cheng Tinhung's style by various Chinese martial arts journalists in Hong Kong during Cheng Tinhung's heyday, and from the school's assertion that its t'ai chi is eminently useful as a form of self-defense. \n\nThe Wudang t'ai chi ch'uan system teachers publish that they have links to famous T'ai chi ch'uan masters (see lineage diagram), including Yang Banhou, Wu Quanyou, Wu Jianquan, Cheng Wingkwong (Zheng Rongguang, 鄭榮光), Chen Gengyun (陳耕雲) and Wang Lanting (王蘭亭).\n\nIt is thought that Qi Minxuan (齊敏軒) came from Wen County, Hebei Dao in Henan Province. He was a teacher of t'ai chi ch'uan and neigong\"Neigong is a type of martial arts which focus on breathing techniques\". After losing his family during the Japanese Occupation and Second World War, Qi Minxuan became an itinerant martial arts instructor teaching T'ai chi ch'uan to those that would give him board and lodgings. His father Qi Gechen (齊閣臣) was a disciple of the famed T'ai chi ch'uan master Wu Quanyou. Qi Minxuan also learnt from a Buddhist monk known as Jing Yi (静一, Tranquil One), who learnt t'ai chi ch'uan from Wang Lanting. Qi Minxuan's Buddhist name was Zhi Meng (智孟, Sagacious Elder) and was an enthusiastic student of Chan Buddhism. The fate of Qi Minxuan is unknown.\n\nCheng Tinhung (Zheng Tianxiong, 鄭天熊; 1930–2005). As a young boy he studied Southern Boxing (南拳) from his father Cheng Minchueng (鄭綿彰), which was a family style, learnt from his father Cheng Lin (鄭麟) who was a professional martial artist. As Cheng Tinhung grew older his uncle Cheng Wingkwong (鄭榮光) took an interest in teaching him Wu-style t'ai chi ch'uan. Cheng Wingkwong was a formal disciple of Wu Jianquan, who eventually held the rank of Shifu (師父, or Sifu in Cantonese) in the Wu family's Hong Kong school. At that ranking he had their encouragement to take on disciples of his own and open his own school. Cheng Wingkwong knew of an itinerant martial artist known as Qi Minxuan whose father was a disciple of the founder of the Wu-style, Wu Quanyou. Cheng Wingkwong arranged for his nephew to train with Master Qi from the summer of 1946 to the winter of 1948. Qi Minxuan advised his new disciple Cheng Tinhung, that in order to gain a good reputation as a master of T'ai chi ch'uan he must be both sound in mind and body and also be able to defend himself, thus being able to represent the art in its true form. Cheng Tinhung later took the nickname of the \"T'ai chi Bodyguard\" for his enthusiastic defence of t'ai chi ch'uan as a martial art. By all accounts, Cheng was a hellraiser—he liked to drink, eat, and fight as well as train and teach. His predilections may have contributed to the ill health that plagued him in his later years.\n\nDan Docherty was born in Glasgow, Scotland, in 1954. He graduated with an LLB in 1974 and soon after moved to Hong Kong where he served as an inspector in the Royal Hong Kong Police Force until 1984 .\n\nSoon after he arrived in Hong Kong in 1975 he started training t'ai chi ch'uan under Cheng Tinhung and within a few years was elected to represent Hong Kong in Full-contact Fighting competitions. In 1980 he won the Open Weight Division at the 5th South East Asian Chinese Pugilistic Championships in Malaysia .\n\nIn 1985 he was awarded a Postgraduate Diploma in Chinese from Ealing College, London.\n\nHe is now based in London and travels extensively teaching and writing about t'ai chi ch'uan. Mr. Docherty is known for his strong views on the history of t'ai chi ch'uan and is seen as a polarizing figure within the world of t'ai chi. In articles and interviews he has spoken of confrontations with other t'ai chi teachers, including an infamous meeting with one Shen Hong-xun, a master who claimed to have and to teach \"empty force\", or the ability to move a person without physical contact. The meeting ended up with Mr. Docherty pouring water over the head of Shen Hong-Xun, not to prove that empty force does not exist but to suggest that Master Shen was unable to summon and use it at that time.\n\nIan Cameron was born in Edinburgh, Scotland, in 1944.\n\nHe first came under the tutelage of Cheng Tinhung in 1971 whilst serving in the armed forces in Hong Kong. On his return to Edinburgh he set up his class which was to evolve into the Five Winds School Of T'ai chi ch'uan.\n\nIan Cameron teaches in Edinburgh. He also supervises other classes in Scotland and England.\n\nIan Cameron was born in Edinburgh (Scotland, UK) in 1944. He trained in Tai Chi Chuan with Chen Tin Hung in Hong Kong from 1971 to 1974, and has taught classes now continuously in the UK for over forty years. A student of Judo and Karate from a young age, he was also a keen boxer as a teenager.\nIt was during his time in the Army while serving in Hong Kong he sought out a teacher in martial Tai Chi Chuan, and became a diligent student of Chen Tin Hung. On leaving the armed forces in 1976/77 he began classes in Edinburgh, effectively introducing the style to the UK. He subsequently returned to Hong Kong in 1980 for a month, with the purpose of intensively training with Cheng. Cheng Tin Hung was then Mr Cameron's guest in Scotland the following year, and again in 1985 and 86, teaching seminars throughout the UK.\nIan Cameron appeared in Hong Kong newspaper articles with Cheng during the early 70s, and was described in the acknowledgements of Cheng's best known book in the UK (Wutan Tai Chi Chuan) as the ‘elder brother in TCC ‘ of Dan Docherty, current president of the Tai Chi Union for Great Britain. Mr Cameron was a founder member of the Tai Chi Union for Great Britain, and sits as Technical Director of that body. He remains a leading practitioner and teacher of Tai Chi Chuan in the UK and continues to fervently defend the traditional approach to Cheng's system of training.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1854316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854316", "title": "The Gathering Storm (1974 film)", "text": "The Gathering Storm (1974 film)\n\nThe Gathering Storm is a 1974 British/American television biopic film, about Winston Churchill's life in the years just prior to, and at the start of, World War II, from 1936 to 1940.\n\nIt was a joint production of the BBC and NBC, made in 1974 in the Hallmark Hall of Fame; it starred Richard Burton as Churchill and Virginia McKenna as Clementine Churchill. Robin Bailey portrays Neville Chamberlain. The supporting cast includes Ian Bannen as Adolf Hitler, Ian Ogilvy as King Edward VIII, Thorley Walters as Stanley Baldwin and Patrick Stewart as Clement Attlee.\n\nThe film has the same title as the first volume of Churchill's largely autobiographical six-volume history of the war. This volume covers the period from 1919 to 10 May 1940, the day he became prime minister.\n\nThe film was broadcast on United Kingdom television under the title \"Walk with Destiny\". Although another film about Churchill, made in 2002, was also called \"The Gathering Storm\", it bears little resemblance to the 1974 film.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1854317", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854317", "title": "KHOU", "text": "KHOU\n\nKHOU, virtual and VHF digital channel 11, is a CBS-affiliated television station licensed to Houston, Texas, United States. The station is owned by Tegna Inc., as part of a duopoly with Conroe-licensed Quest owned-and-operated station KTBU (channel 55). The two stations share studios at 5718 Westheimer Road near Uptown Houston; KHOU's transmitter is located near Missouri City, in unincorporated northeastern Fort Bend County.\n\nDuring the 2016–17 television season, KHOU became the second-largest (after sister station and Tegna flagship WUSA in Washington, D.C.) CBS affiliate (not owned by the network) station by market size, after passing Atlanta.\n\nThe station first signed on the air on March 23, 1953 as KGUL-TV (either GULF of Mexico or seaGULL). It was founded by Paul Taft of the Taft Broadcasting Co. (no relation to the Cincinnati-based Taft Broadcasting Company). Originally licensed to Galveston, it was the second television station to debut in the Houston market (after KPRC-TV, channel 2), taking the secondary CBS affiliation from KPRC-TV as the network's new primary affiliate, and has stayed aligned with the network ever since. One of the original investors in the station was actor James Stewart, along with a small group of other Galveston investors. The studio was located at 2002 45th Street in Galveston.\n\nIn 1956, the original owners sold the station to the Indianapolis-based Whitney Corporation (later Corinthian Broadcasting), which became a subsidiary of Dun & Bradstreet in 1971. In June 1959, the station changed its callsign to KHOU-TV (the \"-TV\" suffix was dropped from the call letters the week following the June 12, 2009 digital transition, as most Belo stations did at the time) and had its city of license relocated to Houston. The Federal Communications Commission (FCC) license listed both the Houston and Galveston service areas for a time. On April 24, 1960, the station moved to its first Houston facilities at 1945 Allen Parkway, along Buffalo Bayou in the Neartown neighborhood (near downtown).\nIn 1984, Dun & Bradstreet sold its entire broadcasting division, including KHOU, to the Belo Corporation, who spun off its Beaumont station, KFDM-TV (channel 6) in order to comply with FCC regulations at the time that prevented one company from owning overlapping signals; both stations had overlapping Grade B signals in the vicinity of Liberty County (east of Houston).\n\nKnown for its ownership of \"The Dallas Morning News\" and its flagship TV station in its home city of Dallas, WFAA (historically one of ABC's strongest affiliates and a local news powerhouse in that city), Belo began to make significant investments into KHOU, which had become one of CBS' weakest affiliates during the 1980s under the final years of Dun & Bradstreet ownership. With the addition of stronger syndicated programming including the popular game shows \"Wheel of Fortune\" and \"Jeopardy!\" (both of which were picked up from KPRC-TV) and \"The Oprah Winfrey Show\" (which KTRK-TV turned down), the revamping of its news department, and the carrying over of its Dallas flagship's popular branding, \"The Spirit of Texas\", KHOU began to challenge KTRK and KPRC in the local ratings, and eventually became one of CBS' strongest affiliates by the 1990s. In 1998, KHOU became the first television station in the market to begin broadcasting a high definition digital signal.\n\nThe KHOU studios were flooded during Tropical Storm Allison in 2001, resulting in damage to much of the station's offices, including its newsroom. The damage was so severe that the station had to cease regular programming and instead broadcast a West Coast feed of the \"Late Show with David Letterman\", followed by a feed from the station's doppler radar for roughly 90 minutes.\n\nDuring Hurricane Ike, which hit the Texas Gulf Coast in mid-September 2008, KHOU's storm coverage was distributed nationwide via DirecTV and XM Satellite Radio, as well as through a live feed on the station's website. On June 13, 2013, the Gannett Company announced that it would acquire Belo for $1.5 billion. The sale was completed on December 23.\n\nOn June 29, 2015, the Gannett Company split in two, with one side specializing in print media and the other side specializing in broadcast and digital media. KHOU was retained by the latter company, named Tegna.\n\nOn August 21, 2017, KHOU began covering Hurricane Harvey as the storm was projected to hit the Texas Gulf Coast with extensive rainfall expected in the Greater Houston area. The station began wall-to-wall coverage on August 25, 2017 with extensive coverage of the storm's landfall in Rockport (near Corpus Christi). While initial coverage focused on storm damage and cleanup in parts of KHOU's viewing area, by the following Saturday, August 26, massive and continuous rain bands from the Gulf of Mexico led to catastrophic flooding throughout the metropolitan area, with much of the flooding being unprecedented in many places.\n\nOn the early morning of Sunday, August 27, KHOU was forced to evacuate its studios due to rising floodwaters from the nearby Buffalo Bayou. Around 6 a.m., the first floor of the building became inundated with floodwaters, forcing station employees to completely abandon its facility nearly three hours later after a move to a second floor conference room proved to only be a short-term option, though critical equipment (such as the studio's robotic cameras) was also moved up to the second floor before the flooding became worse. The station's brand-new news set (which had debuted in November 2016), weather center, newsroom and master control were destroyed by the floodwaters, which rose up to within the building. Additionally, the station's over the air signal, including its CBS and diginet feeds, were knocked off the air as computers and other equipment became submerged by floodwaters, with staff relegated to providing updates on social media.\n\nAfter KHOU's signal was knocked off the air, sister station WFAA began providing live news coverage for KHOU by live-streaming on both station's websites and social media profiles until the station was able to resume broadcasting on its own. The station's staff then evacuated to the nearby Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas Houston Branch building on higher ground while a new contingency plan was drafted.\n\nWith the assistance of PBS member station KUHT (channel 8) and master control from WFAA, KHOU eventually resumed live broadcasting later that night from temporary facilities at the LeRoy and Lucile Melcher Center for Public Broadcasting on the campus of the University of Houston. At various times, WFAA, along with Tegna NBC affiliate KUSA in Denver, provided assistance with weather graphics and master control. Due to technical difficulties, WFAA originated the August 27 edition of the 10 p.m. news that was simulcast in both cities. Eventually a reliable signal was established an hour later from the Melcher Center and storm coverage continued. KHOU is the third commercial station in Houston to utilize a part of the UH campus for its facilities, after ill-fated KNUZ-TV (channel 39) from 1953 to 1954 and KTRK-TV (channel 13) from its 1954 launch until its 1961 move to its current studios in the Upper Kirby district.\n\nOn the evening of August 31, the station resumed CBS programming with its prime time lineup. For the first month, the station only broadcast its main HD channel while its two subchannels (at the time Bounce TV and Justice Network) remained shut down. The following week, on September 4, KHOU began to reuse parts of its previous 2011–2016 news set in the temporary studio. On October 4, the subchannels returned as widescreen SD simulcasts of the main channel in preparation for the eventual return of the diginets, which would finally return on October 12. Around the same time, the station's on-air look returned to normal with full news and weather graphics restored and program guide listings on the terrestrial signal. A temporary news set, similar in design to its previous news set destroyed in the Harvey floods with additional brick accents, would eventually be constructed for the station at the Houston Public Media facilities.\n\nOn November 16, 2017, KHOU officially announced it would not return to the Allen Parkway facility; the building would eventually be sold to an affiliate of Service Corporation International (whose headquarters are located in an office building adjacent to the former KHOU studios) and was eventually demolished the following May. In December 2017, KHOU announced that it would open a secondary street-side studio at the George R. Brown Convention Center along Avenida Houston. The studio opened in the fall of 2018, and is primarily used for its weekday newscasts. This setup is similar to that of Dallas sister station WFAA's Victory Park studio, which opened a decade earlier in January 2007.\n\nOn March 29, 2018, KHOU announced that it had signed a lease for of space at 5718 Westheimer Road near Uptown Houston (Galleria area). The station occupies three floors of the high-rise that will include two studios, two control rooms, an open collaboration space for all content producing departments, technical operations, sales and executive offices. The station began its operations from its new facility on Sunday, February 17, 2019 during its 10 p.m. newscast.\n\nThe station's digital signal is multiplexed:\nOn September 26, 2011, KHOU began broadcasting Bounce TV on its second digital subchannel (which originally launched as a quasi-independent station) upon the network's launch. The station had previously signed on to carry the .2 Network on one of its digital subchannels, although .2 Network never debuted. In 2015, the station began carrying programming from the Justice Network on its third digital subchannel. Quest was added to the fourth digital subchannel on January 16, 2018.\n\nKHOU discontinued regular programming on its analog signal, over VHF channel 11, on the morning of June 12, 2009, as part of the federally mandated transition from analog to digital television. The station's digital signal relocated from its pre-transition UHF channel 31 to VHF channel 11 for post-transition operations.\n\nSince its inception, KHOU has been a CBS affiliate, and has largely cleared the entire CBS network lineup without interruption. In addition to its newscasts, KHOU also airs \"Great Day Houston\", a local talk show hosted by Deborah Duncan with paid segments from local businesses in Houston, following \"CBS This Morning\". The talk show, which has aired on the station since 2005, is taped at KHOU's studios on Westheimer Road west of the Galleria. Outside of local programming, KHOU's syndicated offerings include \"The Ellen DeGeneres Show\" and \"Wheel of Fortune\", and also carries two Tegna-produced programs—\"Daily Blast Live\" and \"Sister Circle\"—during the overnight hours. During the weekend, KHOU also carries \"Texas Country Reporter\" early Saturday evenings and off-network reruns of CBS dramas \"\" and \"Madam Secretary\", as well as those of the Canadian drama \"Murdoch Mysteries\", in late night.\n\nDespite being in a market with an ABC-owned station (KTRK-TV), \"Jeopardy!\" aired on KHOU from 1985 to 2015 and \"Wheel of Fortune\" has aired on KHOU since 1986 despite their presence on ABC's other network-owned stations along with another ABC O&O syndication staple, \"The Oprah Winfrey Show\", which KHOU carried for its entire run from 1986 to 2011. \"Jeopardy!\" moved to KTRK on September 14, 2015, making it the last ABC-owned station to carry the quiz show. However, KHOU continues to carry \"Wheel of Fortune\" at 6:30 p.m., making Houston one of the largest television markets in the United States where both game shows air on separate stations; in most markets, both game shows are sold as a package, often airing next to one another on the same station in prime time access. Both shows rarely air next to each other in most markets in the Central and Mountain time zones, as most network affiliates often program a 6 p.m. newscast during the traditional access hour (7 p.m. ET/6 p.m. CT) before prime time, with KTRK itself having aired an hourlong 6 p.m. newscast in this hour since 1980.\n\nLike most CBS affiliates prior to 1993, KHOU often carried syndicated programming (including \"Entertainment Tonight\" and reruns of \"M*A*S*H\") in late night following its 10 p.m. newscast, as the network's late night offerings of the era were considered to be less lucrative compared to syndicated offerings. Beginning in 1993, KHOU (like most CBS affiliates) began carrying the \"Late Show\" (then hosted by David Letterman) at 11:05 p.m. CT, eventually moving it to immediately following its 10 p.m. newscast (at 10:35 p.m. CT) by 1995. However, prior to 2015 the station always aired \"The Late Late Show\" on a 30-minute delay (beginning at 12:07 a.m. CT) ever since the show first premiered in 1995, fitting a syndicated sitcom, game show or tabloid news program between the two shows. Because the latter program's original host, Tom Snyder, had a simulcast with the CBS Radio Network (which aired locally on KPRC-AM) and took calls from viewers during his stint as host, KHOU asked via disclaimer for Houston area viewers to not call the toll-free call-in number due to the tape-delay. However, on September 8, 2015, it began airing \"The Late Late Show\" at its network-approved time (11:37 p.m. CT) following Stephen Colbert's debut as host of \"The Late Show\". The station's only CBS preemption is that of the second half-hour of the Sunday morning talk show \"Face the Nation\", which is tape-delayed to 2:30 a.m. the following Monday morning due to KHOU's longstanding broadcasts of religious programs from Houston-based Lakewood Church and Second Baptist Church, with the former also airing on Sunday night following its 10 p.m. newscast and \"KHOU 11 Sports Extra\" (see below).\n\nKHOU serves as the local television broadcaster of Houston's annual Thanksgiving Day parade, the \"H-E-B Holiday Parade\", preempting the \"CBS Thanksgiving Day Parade\".\n\nIn 2002, the Houston Texans joined the NFL as the league's 32nd franchise, as part of the American Football Conference's newly-formed South Division. Being part of the AFC, most Texans games—including all road games against NFC opponents—are aired on CBS (which has held the contract to carry AFC games since the 1998 season), and are therefore aired locally on KHOU. The station also served as the over-the-air outlet for all of the Texans' appearances on \"Thursday Night Football\" until 2018 (when Fox picked up the full rights to the Thursday night package, thus moving those telecasts locally to KRIV), and have aired simulcasts of ESPN's \"Monday Night Football\" in the past (due to ABC's live broadcast of \"Dancing with the Stars\" on KTRK conflicting with the games). The Texans are one of two teams never to have been blacked out at home, the other being the Baltimore Ravens; this stands in contrast to the city's previous NFL team, the Houston Oilers, who were often blacked out at home in their twilight years in Houston before moving to Nashville in 1997 for reasons related to the team's controversial management under owner Bud Adams. Beginning in 2014, with the institution of 'cross-flex' rules, games in which the Texans play an NFC opponent at home can be moved from Fox O&O KRIV (channel 26) to KHOU.\n\nOther notable appearances by Houston sports teams on KHOU have included the Houston Rockets' 1981 and 1986 appearances in the NBA Finals (both losses to the Boston Celtics; all Rockets games broadcast through CBS' NBA broadcast contract were aired on KHOU from 1973 to 1990) and the University of Houston men's basketball team's two NCAA National Championship appearances in 1983 and 1984 - all via their national coverage by CBS Sports. KHOU also carried Southwest Conference football and men's basketball games (with an emphasis on games involving the University of Houston and Rice University) on Saturday afternoons before the conference folded in 1996, as well as CBS' broadcasts of the 2011 NCAA Final Four and Super Bowls VIII (1974) and XXXVIII (2004) - all of which took place in Houston.\n\nKHOU presently broadcasts 33½ hours of locally produced newscasts each week (with 5½ hours on weekdays, 3½ hours on Saturdays and 2½ on Sundays). Unlike most CBS affiliates, the station did not air a newscast until January 5, 2020 when it launched a new Sunday Morning newscast from 7 a.m. to 8 a.m. prior to \"CBS Sunday Morning\", with the hour instead being filled by one of CBS's three hours of E/I programming which KHOU preempts to carry a Saturday morning newscast from 7 a.m. to 9 a.m., resulting in the second hour of \"CBS This Morning Saturday\" being preempted to after the newscast. The station airs its 10 p.m. newscast for one full hour on weekends and also airs \"KHOU 11 Sports Extra\", which features extensive Sunday night sports coverage and commentary, during the second half-hour of its Sunday 10 p.m. newscast.\n\nKHOU has been widely regarded as a stepping stone for many well-known television news personalities, as many of its reporters have gone on to work for national networks. KHOU's best known former on-air staffers include former \"CBS Evening News\" anchor Dan Rather, NBC News correspondent Dennis Murphy, newswomen Linda Ellerbee and Jessica Savitch, and sports anchors Jim Nantz (now the lead announcer for CBS Sports), Harry Kalas (later a legendary broadcaster for Major League Baseball and NFL Films) and Ron Franklin (later with ESPN). Outside of broadcasting, one of its former sports anchors, Dan Patrick, eventually became Lieutenant Governor of Texas.\n\nThe station's newscasts have traditionally battled with KPRC for second among stations in the Houston area (behind ABC-owned KTRK); however, their viewership usually has been strongest amongst 35- to 55-year-olds and suburban audiences—traditionally considered by advertisers to be the most crucial demographic groups for news ratings. This is noted since, as of 2011, KHOU is the only Houston area station whose traffic reports cover suburban areas, in addition to the Houston freeways, and frequently features outside webcam shots from suburban locations during its weather reports.\nKHOU also has gained a reputation for its investigative reporting staff (currently known as \"KHOU 11 Investigates\"), whose most notable stories include its 2000 investigation into defective tire designs by Firestone – which led to the mandatory recall of Wilderness AT, Firestone ATX and ATX II tires, as well as numerous lawsuits (the defective tires resulted in a number of deaths, including that of KTRK reporter Stephen Gauvain), a story in the early 2000s that led to the shutdown of the Houston Police Department's crime lab, and allegations of dropout rate fraud in the Houston Independent School District, which resulted in the dismissal of several HISD officials. All of these stories were initially reported by investigative reporter Anna Werner, who eventually went on to become the chief investigative reporter for CBS News.\n\nWhen Belo acquired KHOU in 1984, the station had fallen to third in the Houston news ratings behind dominant KTRK, then one of ABC's strongest affiliates which eventually became an owned-and-operated station of the network itself, and NBC affiliate KPRC, which usually placed a strong second and would further benefit in the decade from NBC's strong prime time programming of the 1980s. Its newscasts fared even worse than CBS's own floundering network programming itself at the time, occasionally even placing behind syndicated reruns on independent stations in the Houston market. Having achieved considerable success with the news department of its flagship station in Dallas, WFAA, since the 1970s, Belo sought to seek similar results for KHOU, and beginning in the late 1980s hired several high-profile people to its news team. The most notable was former National Hurricane Center director Dr. Neil Frank, who was hired as the station's chief meteorologist in July 1987. In another key move, KHOU also hired former KTRK morning anchor Sylvan Rodriguez (then with ABC News' West Coast bureau) to anchor the station's early evening newscasts.\n\nDuring this time, KHOU also commissioned an image rebrand using the \"Spirit of Texas\" slogan and (initially) TM Productions' \"Spirit\" music package that originated at its Dallas sister station WFAA. In January 1989, KHOU revamped the appearance of its newscasts, with an image campaign that included full-page ads in the \"Houston Chronicle\" and \"Post\", as well as an on-air promotional campaign that focused more on ordinary citizens throughout Greater Houston than on its news team. With anchors Steve Smith and Marlene McClinton, chief meteorologist Neil Frank and sports director Giff Nielsen as its main news team, along with a new set, graphics and theme music, KHOU began to mount a serious challenge to the other Houston newscasts, leading to a competitive ratings race during the 1990s. Its resurgent newscasts, combined with a strong syndicated programming lineup, helped to sustain the station through what would be a turbulent ratings period for CBS, which lost broadcast rights to NFL games in addition to several of its largest affiliates during this time.\n\n1999 proved to be a breakout year for KHOU, with its newscasts reaching #1 in viewership in several timeslots during the May sweeps period, unseating KTRK during the midday hours, and at 5:00 (it debuted in May 1974) and 6:00 p.m., which also coincided with CBS's resurgence to number one in prime time by that year. The station's ratings boost also included an exclusive interview with Serbian and Yugoslavian President Slobodan Milosevic during the Kosovo War, just a month before his indictment. This news came despite the retirement of longtime anchor Steve Smith, anchor Sylvan Rodriguez's eventually fatal bout with pancreatic cancer and the abrupt resignation of fellow anchor Marlene McClinton during one of the station's newscasts on April 8, 2000. Two former local newscasters in New York City, Greg Hurst of ABC flagship WABC-TV and Len Cannon of Fox flagship WNYW (the latter also a former NBC News correspondent and substitute anchor), would respectively join the station in 1999 (when Hurst replaced Smith) and 2006 (when Cannon replaced Jerome Gray who went to rival KPRC-TV), with Cannon himself succeeding Hurst as lead anchor in 2016.\n\nOn February 4, 2007, following CBS' coverage of Super Bowl XLI, KHOU began broadcasting its local newscasts in high definition, becoming the first station in the market to do so. On September 7, 2009, KHOU-TV expanded its weekday morning newscast with the addition of the 4:30 a.m. program \"First Look\"; despite being the last station in the Houston market to launch a 4:30 a.m. newscast, KHOU was the first station in the market to announce its intentions to do so (three of Houston's major network affiliates – KHOU, KTRK-TV and KPRC-TV – launched 4:30 a.m. newscasts within three weeks of each other in the late summer of 2009 with little fanfare). On August 1, 2011, KHOU debuted a new half-hour newscast at 4:00 p.m. on weekdays to replace \"The Oprah Winfrey Show\"; this would expand to a full hour in 2015 after losing the Houston rights to \"Jeopardy!\" to KTRK. Recently, the station expanded its weekend 10 p.m. news broadcast to a full hour, including the aforementioned \"KHOU 11 Sports Extra\" on Sunday nights.\n\nIn 2018, the station rebranded its weekday morning newscasts as \"HTownRush\", with a format emphasizing social media interaction including its own namesake hashtag, a summary of top stories during the first five minutes of each half-hour, and special segments including in-house features exclusive to Tegna stations such as \"Deal Boss\", one-minute business/technology news briefs from Cheddar, and consumer reporter John Matarese's \"Don't Waste Your Money\" consumer segments (which usually air on stations owned by the E. W. Scripps Company). In June 2019, KHOU rebranded its 4 p.m. newscast as \"The 411\", emphasizing a conceptual format and on-air graphics style similar to that of its morning newscast.\n\n"}
{"id": "1854318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854318", "title": "Danny Alexander", "text": "Danny Alexander\n\nSir Daniel Grian Alexander (born 15 May 1972) is a British banker who is vice president and corporate secretary at the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank. He was a Liberal Democrat politician who was Chief Secretary to the Treasury between 2010 and 2015. He was the Member of Parliament (MP) for the Inverness, Nairn, Badenoch & Strathspey constituency from 2005 until the general election in May 2015, when he was defeated by Drew Hendry of the Scottish National Party (SNP).\nIn his first parliamentary term (2005–2010), Alexander was the Liberal Democrat spokesperson for Work and Pensions, the chief of staff to party leader, Nick Clegg, and Chair of the Liberal Democrat Manifesto Group (2007–2010).\n\nWith the 2010 General Election producing a hung parliament, he was one of the four man Liberal Democrat negotiating team in the drawing up of the coalition document for the new Coalition Government with the Conservative Party. Alexander was initially appointed Secretary of State for Scotland, but at the end of May 2010, he was promoted to Chief Secretary to the Treasury, following the resignation of David Laws.\n\nHe was knighted in the 2015 Dissolution Honours Lists on 27 August 2015.\n\nAlexander was born in Edinburgh. As a child he lived on the island of Colonsay where his father was a firefighter, potter and deputy pier master. He attended Colonsay Primary School. The family now moved briefly to South Uist in the Outer Hebrides, and then to Invergarry on the mainland, where he attended Invergarry Primary School.\n\nHe was then educated at Lochaber High School, Fort William in the Scottish Highlands. He went on to read Philosophy, Politics and Economics (PPE) at St Anne's College, Oxford.\n\nFrom 1993 to 1994, Alexander worked as a press officer with the Scottish Liberal Democrats, before spending eight years as the Director of Communications at the European Movement (1996 to 1999) and its successor organisation, the Britain in Europe campaign (1999 to 2004). From 2004 to 2005, he was briefly the Head of Communications for the recently formed Cairngorms National Park Authority.\n\nAlexander was elected to the newly formed constituency of Inverness, Nairn, Badenoch and Strathspey in the 2005 UK general election. He won the seat from David Stewart, who was previously the Labour MP for Inverness East, Nairn and Lochaber, the basis of the new constituency.\n\nIn August 2005, it was revealed that Christopher Haskins, a Labour peer who was a friend of Alexander, had donated £2,500 to Alexander's campaign; subsequently Haskins was expelled from the Labour party for this action.\n\nAt the start of the new parliament in 2005, Alexander was appointed by party leader Charles Kennedy as a junior spokesman for Work and Pensions, responsible for disability issues, where he contributed to debates on incapacity benefit reform, the Child Support Agency and the Turner Report on future pension provision in the United Kingdom. From 2005 to 2008, he was also a member of the Scottish Affairs Select Committee.\n\nIn 2007, he was appointed as Liberal Democrat spokesperson for Social Exclusion for six months, before becoming the party's spokesperson for Work and Pensions, holding the post until June 2008. He gave this post up to focus on his role as chief of staff to the new party leader, Nick Clegg, as well as his responsibility for leading the preparation of the party's election manifesto.\n\nIn June 2008, Alexander gave up the Work and Pensions brief to become Chief of Staff to the Leader of the Liberal Democrats, Nick Clegg. As part of his role Alexander became the main author of the 2010 Liberal Democrat general election manifesto and became a confidant of the leader. After the election Alexander became one to the key negotiators in the coalition discussions with the Conservatives and played a key role in the negotiating of the Coalition agreement alongside Oliver Letwin.\n\nFollowing the 2010 general election, Alexander was part of the Liberal Democrats key negotiating team alongside Chris Huhne, David Laws and Andrew Stunell that brokered the agreement to go into a governing coalition with the Conservatives. He was initially appointed Secretary of State for Scotland for the coalition government, then was appointed Chief Secretary to the Treasury after the resignation of David Laws on 29 May 2010. He was appointed as a Privy Counsellor on 13 May 2010.\n\nFollowing the negotiations between the Conservatives and Liberal Democrats, Alexander was appointed to the cabinet as the Secretary of State for Scotland making him one of five Liberal Democrats to serve in the Cameron–Clegg coalition.\n\nAs part of his role Alexander was given responsibility to implement the recommendations of the Calman Commission which was to give more fiscal powers to the Scottish Parliament, the promise to implement the proposals had formed part of the coalition agreement. See also: Scotland Act 2012\n\nIn his first official visit to Scotland in his new capacity Alexander was accompanied by the Prime Minister David Cameron for a series of meetings with the First Minister Alex Salmond. Cameron called for a fresh start in relations between the parliaments in Westminster and Holyrood and committed to appearing every year to answer questions at the Scottish Parliament. Speaking of the coalitions support for the Calman Commission findings Cameron said \"I believe, and Danny believes, we should be pursuing the Calman agenda. That is a much greater degree of \"fiscal autonomy for Scotland\". I think that is right and that is what we want to put in place\".\n\nAlexander's tenure as Scottish Secretary was short lived, and just over two weeks from his appointment on 29 May 2010 he was promoted to the role of Chief Secretary to the Treasury following the resignation of David Laws. Michael Moore, MP for Berwickshire, Roxburgh and Selkirk, replaced Alexander as Secretary of State for Scotland.\n\nThe move to the Treasury and the effective number two position to chancellor George Osborne marked his second cabinet post in under a month. The role effectively put Alexander in charge of the government's deficit reduction plan – a position of power which he particularly relished.\n\nTwo days after being appointed to his new position, the \"Daily Telegraph\" newspaper published front-page allegations that Alexander had exploited a legal loophole to avoid the payment of capital gains tax on a property he had sold in 2007 alleging that he had profited from a \"morally dubious\" loophole to avoid paying capital gains tax. A few days earlier, the same newspaper had caused the resignation of Alexander's predecessor David Laws after finding irregularities in his expenses claims. The paper suggested that \"the fact that Mr Alexander has become the second Lib Dem to face questions about his finances within three days has focused attention on whether the party leadership has properly audited the financial activities of its senior figures\".\n\nAlexander had bought the property, a London flat, in 1999 and, after being elected to parliament for a Scottish constituency in 2005, designated the property as his \"second home\" while claiming that his first home was now in his constituency. The property was then sold in 2007 for a profit on which he paid no capital gains tax.\n\nAs the property was the only one he owned, up until 2006, HM Revenue and Customs rules meant that capital gains tax was not payable as should someone find a buyer for their home within three years the property qualifies for relief from [capital gains tax] as long as the property has been the only or main home at some point. Speaking at the time Alexander said \"I have always listed London as my second home on the basis set out in the parliamentary rules as I spent more time in Scotland than I did in London.\" \"The Daily Telegraph\" stated \"there is no suggestion that Mr Alexander has actually broken any tax laws\".\n\nOn 8 June 2010 Alexander and the Chancellor George Osborne announced details of how they would conduct the government's spending review which would set spending limits for every government department for the period from 2011–12 up until 2014–15. As part of the review due to be announced on 20 October 2010 a star chamber was established chaired by Osborne and Alexander designed to scrutinise the spending plans of each government department. Shortly after the announcement of how the review would take place, Alexander announced on 17 June 2010 that £2billion worth of projects agreed by the previous Labour government would be cancelled. The projects included an £80million loan to Sheffield Forgemasters and the cancellation of a £25million visitors centre at Stonehenge. Labour attacked the plans as an \"attack on jobs\" but Alexander countered by saying that the previous government had gone on a \"pre-election spending spree in the full knowledge that the government had long since run out of money.\"\n\nFollowing the announcement on the cancellation of projects, Alexander worked closely with the Chancellor George Osborne to produce an emergency budget on 22 June 2010 which announced a series of measures designed to reduce the United Kingdom's budget deficit. Measures included a rise in the rate of VAT from 17.5% to 20% starting in 2011, a rise in Capital Gains Tax from 18% to 28% and the introduction of a levy on the banks designed to raise £2 billion a year. Defending the budget against allegations that it disproportionately hit the poor hardest, Alexander described it as \"fair\" and \"progressive\" saying \"this is a Budget that protects the most vulnerable – especially children in poverty and pensioners – while ensuring those with the broadest shoulders take the greatest share of the burden.\".\n\nFollowing the budget, and in the period until the spending review, Alexander found himself at the heart of controversial spending decisions made by the government. A series of leaked letters from cabinet ministers showed that the spending review was causing strain within government departments including within the Department of Work and Pensions when a memo from Osborne to Iain Duncan Smith suggested that deep cuts to the welfare budget had already been agreed, prompting accusations by Labour that the cuts were \"vicious\" and an attack on the poorest in society. In response Alexander said \"I am not going to comment on a leaked letter but what I will say is that with welfare spending making up nearly £200 billion, of course it is something we have to look at in the context of the spending review.\"\n\nFurther controversy came when the Treasury announced that the Ministry of Defence would have to include the £20 billion replacement of Trident within their budget on top of potential cuts of potentially up to 10 and 20%. Secretary of State for Defence Liam Fox later wrote to David Cameron in another leaked letter saying that cuts in defence spending would seriously damage troops' morale. Ken Clarke, the Secretary of State for Justice, said that he was \"relishing\" life back at the centre of government and said that the discussions on the spending review he had with Danny Alexander were \"rather informal but quite intense and serious.\"\n\nOn 19 October 2010, the day before the spending review was announced in the House of Commons, Alexander was photographed reading a memo which showed that as a result of the cuts the government would be announcing up to 490,000 public service jobs could be lost. The figure contained within confidential briefing papers came from the Office for Budget Responsibility (OBR).\n\nOn 20 October 2010, the chancellor George Osborne announced the findings of the review which included the claim from the OBR. Other key points from the review included an average 19% cut in departmental budgets, the desire to eliminate the structural deficit by 2015, £7bn extra in cuts to welfare spending and a move for the retirement age to be increased to 66 for both men and women by 2020. In a letter to Liberal Democrat members Alexander defended the cuts by saying \"When we came into office, we inherited an economy that was on the brink. With the largest budget deficit in Europe and no plan for tackling it, Britain faced huge economic risks. These could only be dealt with by a clear plan to deal rapidly with the worst financial position this country has faced for generations.\"\n\nDespite the scale of the cuts announced Alexander, in his letter, went on to claim that the burden had been spread fairly by ensuring that key public services relied on by the most vulnerable in society had been protected. He emphasised the announcement of the 'fairness premium' designed to help the poorest children and noted that key transport projects had been given the go ahead as well as the announcement of a green investment bank.\n\nIt was reported in the Independent in December 2011 that Danny Alexander had been involved in meetings with bankers lobbying to avoid proposals in the Vickers Report that were intended to reduce risks in the banking industry. The talks were alleged to be secret, but were obtained via a Freedom of Information request.\n\nAlexander caused controversy after giving a speech to a group of businessmen that a £10 billion windfall tax on North Sea oil revenue in the 2011 budget was his idea. The move has been estimated to cost up to 40,000 jobs.\n\nOn 22 September 2012, Danny Alexander was appointed by Nick Clegg to review alternatives to like-for-like replacement of the Trident nuclear missile system, after Minister of State for the Armed Forces Nick Harvey left the government in David Cameron's government reshuffle.\n\nIn January 2015, Nick Clegg was accused of a \"desperate ploy\" to save Alexander's seat from the SNP by offering the possibility of completing a city deal for Inverness just ahead of the 2015 United Kingdom general election. Highland council had been lobbying for a deal worth up to £300 million to improve tourist and sports facilities.\n\nThe day after approving the last budget of the Coalition as set out by George Osborne, Alexander took the unprecedented step of issuing an alternative fiscal plan for the next Parliament based on Liberal Democrat policy. In a sparsely attended Commons session Alexander announced plans to borrow £70 billion less than Labour and cut £50 billion less than the Conservatives in the next parliament. He was barracked by Labour MPs throughout, who repeatedly alluded to the Red Book containing the official budget unveiled the day before.\n\nIn the 2015 General Election, Alexander came second, behind the Scottish National Party's Drew Hendry, with 31.3% of the vote compared to Hendry's 50.1%.\n\nAlexander married Rebecca Hoar in July 2005 in Chippenham. They have two children.\n\nIn October 2010, Deputy Leader of the Labour Party Harriet Harman mentioned Alexander during her speech at the Labour Party's Scottish Conference, referring to his red hair. She said, \"Now, many of us in the Labour Party are conservationists and we all love the red squirrel. But there is one ginger rodent which we never want to see again in the Highlands – Danny Alexander.\" The speech generated controversial media attention and Alexander responded stating he was \"proud\" of his hair colour. Harman later apologised, admitting her conduct was \"wrong\".\n\nIn November 2012 the Cairngorm Brewery rebranded their beer called \"Cairngorm Gold\" as \"Ginger Rodent\" with Alexander's agreement and cooperation. This same beer is also exported to Australia where it is called \"Sheepshaggers Gold\". The brewery is located in his former constituency.\n\nAlexander has been nicknamed \"Beaker\" due to his resemblance to \"The Muppet Show\" character.\n\nAlexander is a self described heavy metal fan.\n\n"}
{"id": "1854319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854319", "title": "Rakhat Aliyev", "text": "Rakhat Aliyev\n\nRakhat Mukhtaruly Aliyev (, \"Rahat Muhtaruly Álıev\"; 10 December 1962 – 24 February 2015) was a senior official of the government of Kazakhstan who died in an Austrian prison awaiting trial on charges of murder. His trial was planned to start in Vienna in first half of year 2015. Austrian legal circles were giving much attention to this high-profile criminal case in which a former diplomat was facing murder charges.\n\nHe was chief of Kazakhstan's tax police, deputy chief of the KNB state security service (Kazakhstan's successor to the Soviet KGB), ambassador to Austria, and first vice foreign minister. While serving in those government posts, Aliyev amassed a fortune in the banking, oil refining, news media, telecommunications, and agricultural commodities sectors. He was born in Almaty.\n\nIn February 2007, he was appointed to his second tour as Kazakhstan's ambassador to Austria and to the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, before being relieved of his post and losing his diplomatic immunity.\n\nUntil June 2007, Aliyev was married to Dariga Nazarbayeva, the eldest daughter of Kazakh President Nursultan Nazarbayev.\n\nAfter hiding in Malta to avoid an Interpol warrant for his arrest, and attempting to gain Cypriot citizenship, Aliyev was taken into custody in June 2014 by Austrian authorities on charges that include kidnapping and murder. He was jailed at the Josefstadt prison pending trial, and was placed under watch as a suicide risk.\n\nAliyev, who portrayed himself as a dissident after falling out with Kazakhstan's leadership, said that he was not guilty and the charges against him were politically motivated.\n\nAliyev's money was allegedly fed into two offshore companies, A.V. Maximus SA and Argocom Ltd, both based in the British Virgin Islands. From here, the money went into A.V. Maximus Holding AG, their parent company. Reportedly, A.V Maximus SA's British Virgin Island's affiliate received €24.8 million and US$91.4 million, while Agrocom received €15.6 million. The money was the directed into Armoreal Trading GmbH and S.T.A.R.T Management consulting GmbH, among other subsidiaries. Loans between these subsidiaries were then sent to Metallwerke Bender Rhineland, some of it via ITR Information Technology GmbH. Metallwerke Bender Rhineland (MBR) then paid it back through Armoreal trading, ultimately going to A.V. Maximus SA. Money was returned to A.V. Maximus SA as a return on investments, which enabled the money to be legally wired to A&P Power Ltd via A.V. Maximus Holding AG. A&A Poweris owned by A&P Power Holdings Ltd, which is housed in Nevis.\n\nAliyev moved to Malta with his second wife Elnara Shorazova; the two allegedly began to dissolve and reorganize their money laundering network. MBR was sold to a Dubai-based company in March 2010. Armoreal Trading was liquidated in December 2010 while an Austrian company known as Veitlissen transferred 2.4 million Euro to A&P Power Ltd. In March 2011, A.V. Maximus Holding was sold to A&P Power Ltd and renamed Zurich Asset management.\n\nIn 2005, the investigation into this arrangement began when Wiesbaden were reportedly alerted about Armoreal Trading's suspicious loan activity. Nothing came of the complaint and the issue lay dormant until spring 2007, when three Austrian banks, Schoellerbank AG, Privitnvest Bank AG and M&A Privatbank AG, reported transactions involving Aliyev's company to the Austrian Interior Minister. The timing of these reports coincided with the divorce of Aliyev with his first wife, the daughter of the President of Kazakhstan, and his falling out of favour with the ruling family. All of his enterprises’ bank accounts were then blocked. The money originated in the late 1990s, when Aliyev was head of the tax office in Kazakhstan.\n\nAccording to reports, Aliyev amassed a large fortune through defrauding a variety of companies and services while enjoying protection as son-in-law of the President, one of which was the Kazakhstani state soccer team. All of the financial interests were placed inside START Management consulting GmbH, a Viennese-based firm. Between March 2006 and January 2007, €1 million in sponsorship money disappeared from START accounts. Despite this, the contract between the two companies was renewed in early 2007 and 403,000 euros were transferred to START's account.\n\nThe Kazakhstan government found Aliyev guilty of treason for attempting a coup against the Kazakh president.\n\nAliyev allegedly tortured the two bodyguards of Akezhan Kazhegeldin to get them to confess to a coup d'état. The two men, lbrayev and Afanasenko, claimed that in April 2000, Aliyev tortured them for a total of 48 hours wanting them to confess that Kazhegeldin had been plotting a coup in Kazakhstan against Nazarbayev. According to the lawyer of the two accusers, Lothar de Maiziere, they addressed law enforcement of Malta demanding a criminal case but the authorities allegedly never followed through.\n\nAliyev was accused of killing the Kazakh opposition leader, Altynbek Sarsenbayev in February 2006 according to Kazakh prosecutors. In December 2013, prosecutors reportedly released findings that Aliyev ordered the assassination. January 2014, the office filed a notion to start a new case against Aliyev and the former head of National Security of Kazakhstan, Alnus Masayev, related to the involvement in the opposition leader's murder as well as his bodyguard and his lawyer.\n\nAliyev reportedly kidnapped two managers of Nurbank in 2007; their bodies were found in 2011. In 2008, the Kazakh court convicted him in absentia of commissioning the double murders.\n\nIn addition, Aliyev reportedly also tortured and killed a 23-year-old TV presenter Anastasiya Novikova. According to reports, Novikova's family lost contact with her in 2004, but waited for three years before reporting her missing, on 26 July 2007. Letters obtained between and her family identified Aliyev as the father of her daughter. Novikova reportedly married Danijar Esten of the Kazakh Embassy in Vienna to cover for Aliyev's dalliance. The daughter was taken away from Novikova shortly after her birth.\n\nAliyev denied the allegations against him and said they are politically motivated.\n\n\"See also The Nurbank Murder Case\"\n\nIn addition to the Nurbank managers' kidnapping, Aliyev reportedly was accused of kidnapping Artem Mikoyan Yarikov, a Russian TV executive working in Kazakhstan the mid 1990s.\nArtem Mikoyan Yarikov allegedly saw Aliyev in a restaurant in Italy where Aliyev acted like nothing happened while Mikoyan Yarikov appeared disturbed by this sight.\n\nAliyev fled to Austria when he was being investigated for the murder of the two Nurbank managers. Before he was arrested, he was quickly appointed the new Kazakh ambassador to Austria on 9 February 2007 as a polite way to get him out of the country. While in Austria, Aliyev announced his candidacy for the upcoming Kazakhstan elections and criticized the sitting Kazakh President, Nursultan Nazarbayev. A full domestic Kazakh investigation began in May 2007 into Aliyev's activities.\n\nAs a result, his diplomatic passport was cancelled, as was his diplomatic immunity. Kazakhstan filed its first extradition request with Austria at this time. The domestic Kazak investigation concluded in January 2008 with Kazak courts sentencing Aliyev to 40 years of imprisonment \"in absentia\". His crimes were kidnapping, treason and plotting a coup d'état against his father-in-law Nursultan Nazarbayev.\n\nAccording to reports, \"Kazakhstan requested his extradition from Austria twice, but was denied on both accounts, since Austria was unsure that Aliyev would get a fair trial in his home country.\"\n\nHe married to Austrian citizen Elnara Shorazova and enjoyed free movement throughout Europe although being investigated on fraud charges in the Austria, Germany and Malta. European Commissioner Cecilia Malmstrom told reporters that the investigation on fraud charges was difficult because of the different criminal legislation within the European Union countries.\n\nAccording to reports, in November 2013 Aliyev tried to open a bank account in Cyprus with an invalid account which alerted authorities. The following January, two members of the European Parliament made public calls to the European Commissioner to get Eurojust and Europol to assist with the ongoing criminal investigations.\n\nIn 2013, Aliyev's Austrian passport was canceled by the decision of Austrian Minister of Interior. He allegedly wanted to obtain citizenship in Cyprus because it was becoming \"too hot\" in Malta because of all the investigations.\n\nAliyev was arrested in June 2014 after he allegedly turned himself into authorities to cooperate with the murder investigation of the two bankers. His lawyer confirmed the arrest and said it took place at 11pm on 5 June 2014 on his way to the airport.\n\nOn 4 July 2014, Aliyev had been moved to a secure prison cell because of repeated attacks and threats by other inmates. He allegedly is forced to share a cell because of fear he might commit suicide. According to his lawyer, Manfred Ainedter, Aliyev complained that the other prisoners were asking for thousands of euros to leave him alone.\n\nAn international movement called JusticeForNovikova.com began with the intention to bring Aliyev to justice for killing Anastasiya Novikova. The group's participants range from “independent human rights activists, advocates of victims of domestic violence, women’s rights activists, and criminal justice activists.\" According to their website, the project is “an informal international social networking project” with \"no formal organizational affiliation.”\n\nThe movement began on 19 June 2014, the 10-year anniversary of Novikova's death. On that day protest were held at Lowndes Square. Aliyev denounced the Justice for Novikova protesters as agents of the Kazakh secret services.\n\nAliyev denied all charges against him. According to reports, he claimed that he was prosecuted by the Kazakh government and think people after him are \"in bed with Kazakhstan.\" According to an interview, he said that \"criminal accusations that the regime has tried to hang on him are all fiction.\" He also said in the same interview that all the charges were \"made up primarily by the leadership of the National Security Committee, the prosecutor general, the interior minister, and the whole power bloc of ministries.\n\nHe said that all his trials and sentencing were politically motivated and told newspapers that he would be willing to appear in Austrian courts, but feared that he would be kidnapped.\n\nHe also reportedly called the lawyer, Gabriel Lansky, who had been helping the bankers' widows and their campaigns to bring justice, as \"fronts of the Kazakh regime.\" Aliyev was reported to have circulated forgeries of documents to defame those he sees as critics, including former British prime minister Tony Blair, former U.S. president Bill Clinton, former Austrian chancellor Alfred Gusenbauer and current President Heinz Fischer, former Polish president Alexander Kwaśniewski, former Italian prime minister Romano Prodi, and former German chancellor Gerhard Schröder\n\nHowever, according to \"Die Presse\" newspaper, Austrian authorities found Skype calls that undermine his claims. The obtained calls allegedly discussed the disappearance of the two Nurbank bank managers and the location of the bodies. In addition, his alibi during their disappearance was reportedly also discussed. The Skype calls also purportedly recorded Aliyev directing the fabrication of a specific forged document to discredit former British prime minister Blair and former Austrian chancellor Gusenbauer.\n\nOn 9 February 2007, President Nursultan Nazarbayev appointed Aliyev as Ambassador of Kazakhstan in Austria and Permanent Representative to the OSCE (Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe) and other international organizations in Vienna.\nThe move occurred days after Aliyev became embroiled in a controversy over the disappearance of two former executives of the Kazakh bank Nurbank. \n6 February 2007 the Financial police said they were investigating two former managers (both resigned from their position on 22 January 2007) of Nurbank on suspicion of fraud. \nAfter the permission of President Nazarbayev to Kazakh law enforcement bodies to investigate this criminal case “without regard for rank”, Aliyev was accused of abduction and extortion at the end of May 2007.\nOn 22 May, Nursultan Nazarbayev signed constitutional amendments that effectively allow him to become president-for-life, a move denounced by the opposition. Aliyev joined the chorus of critics, saying the amendments threaten to torpedo Kazakhstan's OSCE chairmanship bid. Aliyev accused Nazarbayev of \"de facto usurping\" power. \nFollowing Aliyev's denial and claims that he had fallen victim to political repression, Nazarbayev on 26 May issued decree No. 333 stripping his son-in-law of all official positions. Two days later, the Interior Ministry issued a new statement saying an international arrest warrant had been issued and investigators had been dispatched to Vienna, site of the OSCE's headquarters, to nab him. The new statement said charges involving criminal association, economic crimes, and kidnapping had been brought against Aliyev. \n26 May 2007, Rakhat Aliyev was relieved of his position as Ambassador to Austria and stripped of his diplomatic immunity.\n\nRakhat Aliyev was also accused of kidnapping a Russian TV executive working in Kazakhstan, Artyom Mikoyan, in the mid-1990s. and locked Mikoyan up in a basement where he kept him and said to Mikoyan that if he will give him all of the money that he made from his position (estimated 20 million), he will release and to tell no one about the incident. Artem Mikoyan fortunately managed to escape from Aliyev to Moscow and never to come back to Kazakhstan again. \n\nOn 30 May, the Kazakh government formally asked Austria to arrest Aliyev for kidnapping and extradite him to Kazakhstan. Arrest warrants were being issued for others in the inner circle of this once-powerful man. \nOn 30 May 2007 his diplomatic immunity was removed. \nIn a statement, Aliyev described the charges as absurd and said he was the victim of a political witch-hunt.\nOn 7 August 2007 a Vienna court rejected a request from Kazakhstan to extradite Aliyev and ruled against extraditing the son-in-law of Kazakh President Nursultan Nazarbayev, who was wanted on charges of kidnapping. The court said the Rakhat Aliyev would not be given a fair trial in his home country and his human rights could not be guaranteed if he were sent back home.\n\nA criminal case against Aliyev and his accomplices ended in mid January 2008: abduction of three top managers of Nurbank in January 2007, the whereabouts of two of them is still unknown, and formation of an organized criminal group found guilty in raiding and document forgery. Almaty district court of Almaty sentenced Aliyev \"in absentia\" to 20 years in a high security prison with confiscation of property in this abduction case. The court also sentenced other people to lengthy prison terms.\nAt the end of March 2008 Akmola Garrison Military Court found Rakhat Aliyev as a key person involved in preparations for a coup d'état and sentenced him to 20 years of imprisonment. Aliyev's sidekick Musayev, the ex- KNB chief, was also sentenced to 20 years of prison term. \nAliyev and Musayev were found guilty under the following articles of the Criminal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan: Article 168, Section 1 \"Seizure of power through violence,\" Article 235, Section 4 \"Formation and heading of an organized criminal group,\" Article 172, Section 4 \"Illegal acquisition, disclosure of state secrets,\" Article 176, Section 3 \"Embezzlement of some other's property,\" Article 251, Section 3 \"Illegal trafficking of arms, ammunition and explosives,\" Article 255, Section 4 \"Stealing of ammunition and explosives\" as well as Article 380, Section 2 \"Abuse of powers.\"\n\nOn 17 June 2011, the Vienna Provincial Court for Criminal Matters rejected a second request for extradition by Kazakhstan because it was not free from doubt that Mr Aliyev would not be persecuted on political grounds in Kazakhstan. Kazakhstan requested extradition to enforce the previously rendered convictions by the Almaty district court and the Akmola Military Court (see above).\n\nIn 2013, Aliyev published a book \"Godfather-in-law\", in which he accused Nazarbayev of being responsible for the murders of the opposition leaders.\n\nOn 13 June 2007, Aliyev was divorced from his wife, Dariga. He claims that the divorce was carried out without his knowledge or consent.\n\n\"Today I received the information where it says I am divorced,\" Aliyev said Monday. \"They stuck a fax with the information through the fence at my home at a quarter past midnight. ... They even falsified my signature on the document.\"\n\nAliyev has three children with Nazarbayev's eldest daughter, Dariga. \"I spoke to my wife on the telephone,\" Aliyev said, showing papers saying his wife had asked for the divorce. \"She said: 'My father pressured me very much,' and she couldn't do anything.\"\n\nAliyev married his assistant, Elnara Shorazova, who held an Austrian passport, and assumed the masculine form of her surname, Shoraz, as his own name. The two fled to Malta, where the Maltese government seized their assets in connection with European money-laundering allegations in March 2014. Aliyev surrendered to Austrian authorities in June 2014.\n\nOn 24 February 2015, on the 40th Day after death of his father, Rakhat Aliyev was found dead in the solitary cell of his Vienna prison. According to the official, Aliyev apparently committed suicide by hanging himself. However, his attorney, Klaus Ainedter, said he was highly suspicious of the death and expected a thorough investigation. \"I have significant doubts about this without wanting to blame anyone. I visited him yesterday. There could be no talk whatsoever of danger of suicide,\" Ainedter said. The Federal Ministry of Justice (Austria) has officially confirmed the fact of Rakhat Aliyev's suicide in his prison cell. Thereafter Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan reported that the law enforcement agencies of the Republic of Kazakhstan insisted on their participation in the investigation into the death of Aliyev. A 2016 independent report ruled out suicide and noted that his body showed traces of burking.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1854325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854325", "title": "History of the Norwegian monarchy", "text": "History of the Norwegian monarchy\n\nThe Kingdom of Norway as a unified realm dates to the reign of King Harald I Fairhair in the 9th century. His efforts in unifying the petty kingdoms of Norway resulted in the first known Norwegian central government. The country, however, soon fragmented and was collected into one entity in the first half of the 11th century, and Norway has retained a monarchy since that time. Traditionally, it has been viewed as being ruled by the Fairhair dynasty, though modern scholars question whether the eleventh century kings and their successors were truly descendants of Harald.\n\nAccording to the traditional view, Norway was the hereditary kingdom of the 'Fairhair' dynasty, agnatic (patrilineal) descendants of the first unifier-king, Harald Fairhair. The successors to the throne after year 872 were all placed by among Harald's male descendants in historical accounts from centuries later. In the 13th century, the kingdom was officially declared hereditary by law, in contrast with the other Scandinavian monarchies which were elective kingdoms in the Middle Ages.\n\nHarald Fairhair was the first king of all Norway, bringing the lands of what had previously been several distinct petty-kingdoms under his control. The foundation of this unified Norwegian kingdom is traditionally dated to 872, when he defeated the last petty kings who resisted him at the Battle of Hafrsfjord, though the consolidation of his power took many years. Fairhair's kingdom spanned the coastal areas north to Trøndelag, but upon his death the kingship was fragmented back into the petty kingdoms, most being held by Harald's sons, descendants or allies, though there were also districts in the hands of other dynasties, such as Ladejarls. Nonetheless, the concept of control by a central power had come into existence. It remains disputed the degree to which Norway should be viewed as an hereditary kingdom under Fairhair's sons and successors, Eric I of Norway and Haakon I of Norway. Some historians emphasize their inability to exercise actual monarchical control over the country and assert that St. Olav (Olaf II), who reigned from 1015, was the first king since Fairhair to control the entire country. Olav is traditionally held to be the driving force behind Norway's final conversion to Christianity. He was later also revered as \"Rex Perpetuum Norvegiæ\" (Latin: eternal king of Norway). Only under half-brothers Olav II and Harald III would succession begin to be determined by rules of inheritance, rather than the crown simply being taken by force.\n\nThe Fairhair dynasty may, however, be an artificial construct. The murder of king Harald Greycloak in 970 brought an end to the rule of the immediate family of his grandfather, Harald Fairhair, and Norway was ruled instead by the Danish king and his proxies for 25 years. Olav I of Norway, who had been raised overseas in obscure circumstances, forcibly conquered the kingdom. His death resulted in another 15-year period of Danish rule before the successful Viking raider, Olav Haraldson in turn conquered the kingdom and was succeeded by his son and then by his half-brother, Harald Hardråde, himself a famous Viking. The later heroic sagas would give each of these three warrior kings distant descents from Harald Fairhair. However, it has been proposed (most vociferously by Claus Krag) that the genealogical lines connecting Harald Fairhair via otherwise obscure individuals to Olav I, Olav II and Harald Hardråde are a political fiction, founded on a later attempt to legitimize their rule and that of Hardråde's descendants, as well as to provide a claim to the region of Viken (the area around the present-day Oslo), a claim challenged by the Danes. Adherents of this proposal consider Harald Hardråde to be the first king of the lineage that would later rule the realm, and that his claim at the time rested solely on being maternal half-brother of Olav II, and not a distant descent from Fairhair. Descent from the same mother was not in Germanic understanding a proper dynastic tie, and thus Harald Hardråde's legitimacy necessitated the fabrication of unbroken male line descents for him and his two predecessors from Fairhair. These fabricated descents are what would appear in the pseudo-historical sagas of \"Heimskringla\".\n\nUnder Harald Hårdråde Norway was firmly established as an independent kingdom and all later kings would claim to be descendants of him. With a few notable exceptions all successful claims are well supported and not disputed by modern historians. This succession of kings is sometimes called the “Hårdråde ætten” to distinguish them from the certain issue of Harald Fairhair. If Hårdråde is accepted as a descendant of Fairhair this dynasty would be just a branch of a larger Fairhair dynasty. The kings themselves are not known to have referred to their dynasty with any official name.\n\nUntil the 13th century there were no clearly defined succession laws. Instead the succession was based on customs with origins in old Germanic traditions: The situation followed loosely agnatic seniority and agnatic succession with some elements of elective monarchy. All patrilineal male descendants of Harald Hårdråde were entitled to share the kingship. This included sons born outside marriage and many kings had semi-official concubines. To formally become king the candidate had to be hailed at the thing – though he would naturally make sure to have the assembly's support before launching his candidacy. The sources do not record any instance of a candidate being turned down by a thing after demanding to be hailed. As kingship gradually took shape as an institution a few things, particularly Øreting in Trøndelag, received a special status as the places the new king was hailed.\n\nThe result of these customs was that brothers and half-brothers would inherit the throne to rule jointly, but such arrangements rarely lasted. As a result, succession was generally a matter of conflict, intrigue, and at times minor civil war. From the 1130s, strifes escalated to a more or less continuous civil war until 1240.\n\nHowever, during the reign of the Hårdråde branch of the dynasty, it was generally agreed that only patrilineal male descendants of King Harald III, were entitled to the kingship.\n\nMany of the claims by later royal pretenders to belong to the Fairhair dynasty are obvious falsehoods (most notably that of Sverre Sigurdsson).\n\n1163, Magnus V of Norway, the son of a daughter of a previous ruler, ascended to the throne. He was supported by the church, but despite initial success, and the first example of a codified law of succession (allowing his own cognatic heirship), he was overthrown by putative male-line members of the old royal dynasty.\n\nIn the 13th century, the kingdom was officially declared hereditary by king Haakon Haakonsson, through a succession system that was based on primogeniture. It was also under Haakon Haakonsson, himself the illegitimate son of king Haakon Sverresson, that legitimacy of birth became a factor in the line of succession. Haakon's eldest son, Sigurd, was accordingly bypassed by Haakon's legitimate sons, Haakon and Magnus.\n\nIn the tradition of the Germanic monarchy the king had to be elected by a representative assembly of noblemen. Men eligible for election had to be of royal blood; the eldest son of the previous king was not automatically chosen. During the civil war era the unclear succession laws and the practice of power-sharing between several kings simultaneously gave personal conflicts the potential to become full-blown wars. Over the centuries kings consolidated their power and eventually a strict succession law made Norway a principally hereditary kingdom. As a result of the unions with Denmark and Sweden, the heredity principles were several times flouted in the succession to the throne, until they were explicitly abolished in 1450.\n\nAfter the extinction of the male lines of the perceived Fairhair dynasty in 1319, the throne of Norway passed through matrilineal descent to Magnus VII, who in the same year became elected as king of Sweden too. In 1343 Magnus had to abdicate as King of Norway in favour of his younger son, Haakon VI of Norway. The oldest son, Eric, was explicitly removed from the future line of succession of Norway. Traditionally Norwegian historians have interpreted this clear break with previous successions as stemming from dissatisfaction among the Norwegian nobility with Norway's junior position in the union. However it may also be the result of Magnus' dynastic policies. He had two sons and two kingdoms and might have wished they should inherit one each, rather than start battling over the inheritance. Magnus was at the same time attempting to secure Eric's future election as King of Sweden.\n\nThe Black Death of 1349–1351 was a contributing factor to the decline of the Norwegian monarchy as the noble families and population in general were gravely affected. But the most devastating factor for the nobility and the monarchy in Norway was the steep decline in income from their holdings. Many farms were deserted and rents and taxes suffered. This left the Norwegian monarchy weakened in terms of manpower, noble support, defence ability and economic power.\n\nAfter the death of Haakon VI of Norway in 1380, his son Olav IV of Norway succeeded to both the thrones of Norway and Denmark and also claimed the Kingdom of Sweden (holding its westernmost provinces already). Only after his death at the age of 17 his mother Margaret managed to oust their rival, king Albert, from Sweden, and thus united the three Scandinavian kingdoms in personal union under one crown, in the Kalmar Union. Olav's death extinguished yet one Norwegian male royal line; he was also the last Norwegian king to be born on Norwegian soil for the next 567 years.\n\nAfter the death of Olav IV of Norway in 1387, the closest in line to the succession was the Swedish king Albert of Mecklenburg. However, his succession was politically unacceptable to the Norwegians and Danes. Next in line were the descendants of the Sudreim lineage, legitimate descendants of Haakon V of Norway's illegitimate, but recognized daughter Agnes Haakonardottir, Dame of Borgarsyssel. However, the candidate from this lineage renounced his claim to the throne in favour of Eric of Pomerania, Queen Margaret's favoured candidate. The succession right of this lineage resurfaced in 1448 after the death of King Christopher, but the potential candidate, Sigurd Jonsson, again renounced his candidature – see Sudreim claim. Eric's succession was one in a line of successions which did not precisely follow the laws of inheritance, but excluded one or a few undesirable heirs, leading to Norway formally becoming an elective kingdom in 1450.\n\nStarting with Margaret I of Denmark, the throne of Norway was held by a series of non-Norwegian kings (usually perceived as Danish) who variously held the throne to more than one Scandinavian countries, or of all of them.\n\nIn 1440, the Norwegian privy council reluctantly deposed king Eric III (1383–1459), after Denmark and Sweden had done the same. The nearest heir to throne was Eric's cousin, Bugislav, but the succession-laws were overlooked because of the necessity to choose the same king as Denmark and Sweden. Christopher of Bavaria was therefore chosen as Norwegian king.\n\nIn 1448 when Christopher died without close heirs, the union between Sweden and Denmark dissolved, as the two countries chose different kings. Sweden chose Charles Knutsson Bonde, while Denmark chose Christian of Oldenburg (Christian I of Denmark). Norway was thus left with a dilemma. Once again, hereditary rights seem to have had little influence over the decisions made (according to feudal inheritance, the Duke of Mecklenburg would have been closest in rights, and Duke Adolf of Schleswig-Holstein as head of next branch, who however had supported his nephew Christian's election). Sigurd Jonsson, of the Sudreim-line, a descendant of Haakon V of Norway, seems to have been mentioned as a candidate, but turned the offer down. The Norwegian nobility then split between supporters of king Charles of Sweden and King Christian of Denmark. Charles succeeded in being crowned king of Norway in Trondheim in 1449, but in 1450 agreed to renounce the Norwegian throne to King Christian of Denmark in a separate peace deal with Denmark. The Norwegians were not a party to this decision, but were left with Christian as their only candidate. He was crowned in Trondheim the same year. Thus, the House of Oldenburg was first introduced to the Norwegian monarchy. In a union treaty, drawn up by the privy councils of Norway and Denmark in Bergen in 1450, it was specified that Norway was to be an elected kingdom, and have the same king as Denmark in perpetuity. On the death of the king, the Norwegian and Danish privy councils would meet and elect the new king among the previous king's legitimate sons. If no such son existed, the choice was free, but the councils should not part until they had agreed on a common king.\n\nOn 6 June 1523, Sweden left the union for good, leaving Norway in an unequal union with a Danish king already embarked on centralising the government of the Union.\n\nIn the following centuries the Norwegian monarchy was characterised by a king mostly residing abroad. This weakened the monarchical governing structures of Norway; the Riksråd, for example, was gradually undermined as the Norwegian nobles were not able to enjoy the King's confidence to the same extent as their Danish counterparts. The King was also less able to govern according to Norwegian needs as the distance meant he and his advisors had less knowledge of the conditions in Norway.\n\nNorway was one of few countries where the archdiocese was coterminous with the national territory. The church was therefore an important factor in trying to maintain the separate Norwegian monarchy. In the 16th century the power struggle between the Norwegian nobles and the king culminated at the same time as the Protestant Reformation. This prompted an unfortunate set of events in which the struggle against the Danish dominance in Norway was coupled with the struggle against the reformation. When both failed the effects were harsh. The Norwegian Catholic bishops were replaced with Lutheran bishops. The Norwegian Riksråd was de facto abolished in 1536/1537 and more and more foreign men were appointed to important positions in Norway.\n\nIn 1661, Frederick III introduced absolute monarchy in Denmark and Norway and introduced a new law, the \"Lex Regis\" in both countries to that effect. In this law the kingdoms of Denmark and Norway were proclaimed to be hereditary.\n\nDuring the Napoleonic Wars the King aligned Denmark–Norway with France. When Napoleon lost the war Denmark was forced to cede Norway to the king of Sweden under the Treaty of Kiel in 1814. It was initially proposed that the Norwegian dependencies of Greenland, Iceland and the Faroes would remain with Norway, but that point was dropped during the negotiations so they became Danish.\n\nOn hearing news of the treaty, Prince Christian Frederick of Denmark and Norway, the resident viceroy in Norway, participated in founding a Norwegian independence movement. The independence movement was successful, partly due to clandestine support from the Danish Crown, but also because of the strong desire for independence in Norway. On 10 April, a national assembly met at Eidsvoll to decide on a constitution. Norway eventually declared independence on 17 May 1814, electing Christian Frederik as King. A short war with Sweden later that year ended with the Convention of Moss. This led to the ousting of Christian Frederick, and the Norwegian Storting electing Charles XIII of Sweden as King of Norway, creating the union between Sweden and Norway. In turn the king recognised the Norwegian constitution which was only changed to facilitate the union.\n\nThe end result was that the Norwegian monarchy became a constitutional monarchy. In this new union the King was much more a King of Norway than under the previous Danish system. Norway was not to be treated as a Swedish conquest but rather as an equal party in a union of two independent states. Both the principle and substance of the Norwegian Constitution were accepted, and Norway retained its own parliament and separate institutions, except for the common king and foreign service. The only area of policy not in the hands of the Norwegians was foreign policy.\n\nNorway had been brought along into the new developments of the world as they arrived in Denmark. However, with the break the Norwegians were able to forge a more progressive political development than was the case in Denmark. Denmark introduced a constitutional monarchy 35 years after Norway. Parliamentarism was introduced in 1884 in Norway, 17 years before Denmark and 33 years before Sweden. The union with Denmark also had its adverse effects on the monarchy, among other things it resulted in the crown of Norway experiencing a loss of territory which today amounts to 2,322 755 km². However, Norway's territorial size has been more than restored due to Norwegian expansionism in the early 20th century, which led to the annexation of Queen Maud Land (1939) in Antarctica, an area comprising roughly . Very few royal undertakings had been located to Norway and the country is thus lacking the monumental palaces of the period as can be seen in Copenhagen and other parts of Denmark.\n\nThe Norwegian Storting would propose laws based in Norway and the King would even on occasion enact laws unfavourable to Sweden. As the Norwegian movement towards full independence gained momentum the King approved the building of forts and naval vessels intended to defend Norway against a Swedish invasion.\n\nThe union was nevertheless marked by the Norwegians' constant and growing discontent with being in a union of any kind. The Storting would propose laws to reduce the king's power or to assert Norwegian independence. This would most often be vetoed by the king, but as he only had the right to veto the same law twice it would eventually be passed. Already in 1814 the Norwegians instituted a separate flag, this would remain an issue until the union badge was discarded from the Norwegian flag in 1898. In 1837, local self-government in certain areas of policy was introduced in rural areas as well as towns. Parliamentarism was introduced in 1884.\n\nQuite often, crown princes of the dynasty served some time in the position of Viceroy of Norway at Oslo, as sort of training for their future reign.\n\nCharles II, as he was officially known in Norway, was succeeded in both kingdoms by his adopted son Charles III John of Norway, the first Bernadotte. He had no known genealogical roots in Norway, but he had his son and heir, the future Oscar I of Norway marry Josephine of Leuchtenberg, a descendant of the earlier kings Christian II and Frederick II, and thus descending from all their ancestors too. Her sons, Charles IV and Oscar II, were thus issue of the so-called Fairhair dynasty.\n\nIt also has to be said that the Royal House tried harder to be a Norwegian Royal House as well. The Royal Palace in Oslo was built during this period. There were separate coronations in Trondheim as stipulated in the Constitution. The royal princes even had a hunting lodge built in Norway in order to spend more private time there. King Oscar II himself is said to have been fluent in Norwegian.\n\nThe third Bernadotte king was Charles IV of Norway. He did not have any male descendants to inherit his thrones of Sweden and Norway, these thrones were \"lost\" to Charles XV's younger brother, Oscar II, instead of his only daughter Lovisa of Sweden, crown princess of Denmark. It has been said that Carl XV promised Lovisa on his deathbed that eventually a son of Lovisa would be entitled to be the heir of the Norwegian throne.\n\nLovisa's son, Prince Carl of Denmark (namesake of his maternal grandfather the King of Norway and Sweden) was the second son of the future King Frederick VIII of Denmark, a younger brother of Denmark's future King Christian X (young Carl personally became a king before his father and his brother), a paternal grandson of king Christian IX of Denmark (during whose reign he was prince of Denmark) and a maternal grandson of King Charles IV of Norway (who was also King of Sweden). He was born in 1872, a few weeks before King Charles died.\n\nThe future Haakon VII of Norway belonged to the house of Oldenburg, which 1448–1814 was the Royal House of union of Denmark and Norway, to its branch Schleswig-Holstein-Sonderburg-Glücksburg.\n\nHis family had permanent links with Norway already beginning from late Middle Ages, and also several of his father's ancestors had been kings of independent Norway (such as Haakon V of Norway, Christian I of Norway, Frederick I, Christian III, Frederick II, Christian IV, as well as Frederick III of Norway). Christian Frederick, who was King of Norway briefly in 1814, the first king of the Norwegian 1814 constitution and struggle for independence, was his great-granduncle.\n\nIn 1905, Carl, taking the name Haakon, ascended the throne of independent Norway to succeed his deposed great-uncle Oscar II.\n\nIn 1905 a series of disputes between parliament and the King culminated with the matter of separate Norwegian consuls to foreign countries. Norway had grown into one of the world's leading shipping nations while Sweden retained control of both the diplomatic and consulate corps. The Swedes had little insight in the matters Norwegian ships and businessmen needed assistance with abroad and consulates were not even established in several important shipping cities. The demand for separate Norwegian consuls was seen as very important by the Norwegian parliament and society. The Storting proposed a law establishing a separate Norwegian consulate corps. King Oscar II refused to ratify the law and subsequently the Norwegian cabinet resigned. The king was not able to form any other government that had the support of parliament and as such it was deemed on 7 June that he had failed to function as King of Norway.\n\nThe Norwegian people gave their consent in a plebiscite held on 13 August which resulted in an overwhelming 368,208 votes (99.95%) in favor of dissolution of the Union, against 184 (0.05%) opposed, with 85 percent of Norwegian men voting. No women voted, as universal suffrage was not granted until 1913, however Norwegian feminists collected more than 200,000 signatures in favor of dissolution.\n\nOn 12 November and 13 November, in the second constitutional plebiscite in three months, Norwegian voters decided by a nearly 79 percent majority (259,563 to 69,264) to keep the monarchy instead of establishing a republic.\n\nDuring the summer a Norwegian delegation had already approached the 33-year-old Prince Carl of Denmark, the second son of the Crown Prince Frederick of Denmark. The Norwegian parliament had considered other candidates but ultimately chose Prince Carl, partly because he already had a son to continue the line of succession, but more significantly because Carl was married to Maud of Wales, the daughter of King Edward VII of the United Kingdom. By bringing in a king with British royal ties, it was hoped that Norway could court Britain's support.\n\nPrince Carl impressed the delegation in many ways, not the least because of his sensitivity to the liberal and democratic movements that had led to Norway's independence. Though the Norwegian constitution stipulated that the Storting could choose a new king if the throne were vacant, Carl was aware that many Norwegians — including leading politicians and high-ranking military officers — favored a republican form of government. Attempts to persuade the prince to accept the throne on the basis of election at Parliament failed; Carl insisted that he would accept the crown only if the Norwegian people expressed their will for monarchy by referendum and if the parliament then elected him king.\n\nFollowing the November plebiscite affirming Norwegians' desire for a monarchy, the parliament by an overwhelming majority offered Carl a clear mandate to the Norwegian throne on 18 November. The prince accepted the same evening, choosing the name Haakon, a traditional name used by Norwegian kings. The last king with that name had been Haakon VI, who died in the year 1380.\n\nThe new king therefore became Haakon VII, King of Norway. His two-year-old son Alexander, the heir apparent, was renamed Olav and became Crown Prince Olav. The new royal family arrived in the capital Kristiania (later Oslo) on 25 November. Haakon VII was sworn in as king of Norway on 27 November.\n\nThe early years of the new Norwegian monarchy were marked by a shortage of funds. The Norwegian state was poor and funds were needed elsewhere than in the upkeep of a large court. In that sense it was a stroke of good fortune that Prince Carl had set as a condition for accepting the throne that he would not be forced to keep a large court. However the royal travels and the upkeep of the royal residences, after the initial refurbishment in 1905, were to some extent neglected. One example of the negative financial situation is that Prince Carl had been promised a Royal Yacht when he accepted the throne, but this was not fulfilled until 1947.\n\nOne important incident in the early years of the new monarchy was in 1928 when the King appointed the first Labour government. The Norwegian Labour Party was at that time quite radical and even had the abolition of monarchy as part of their programme. It was the custom for the King to rely on the advice of previous Prime Minister in deciding whom to give the assignment as new Prime Minister. In this case the previous conservative Prime Minister was opposed to giving power to the radicals and advised the appointment of someone else. But the King adhered to the established practice of parliamentarism and decided to appoint Christopher Hornsrud the first Labour Prime Minister. The Labour party later dropped the abolition of monarchy from their programme.\n\nDuring the German occupation of World War II the King was an important symbol of national unity and resistance. His steadfast opposition to the German demands of surrender was important for the fighting spirit of the Norwegian population. The constitutional powers granted to the King in the Norwegian monarchical system made his position very important and enabled the government in exile to continue its work with the utmost legitimacy.\n\nAfter the war the Norwegian royal house succeeded in maintaining a balance between regality and approachability. King Olav V was deemed the people's king and the spontaneous show of mourning from the population upon his death in 1991 demonstrated the high standing he had among the Norwegian people. Even republicans were among the masses lighting candles in front of the Palace.\n\nIn later years the marriages of the then Crown Prince Harald in 1968 and of Crown Prince Haakon in 2001 sparked considerable controversy, but the lasting effect on the popularity of the monarchy has been minimal. Although decreased from its level of above 90 percent after the war, support for the monarchy seems to remain stable around and mostly above the 70 percent mark.\n\nUse of the title \"Heir of Norway\" (\"Arving til Norge\") established in the 17th century. Firstly, several junior agnatic members of the House of Oldenburg (the Duke of Holstein-Gottorp among the first ones), themselves usually titular Dukes in Schleswig-Holstein, assumed the title to constant use, as one of their main titles. There are plenty of examples from official dispatches and notices of the 17th, 18th and 19th century of several princely persons titled \"Duke of Holstein, Heir of Norway\". This is why it has been used as part of their titles by the emperors of Russia until 1917 since their agnatic line traces back to Peter III of Russia, first Russian ruler of the House of Oldenburg.\n\nFrom the 15th century, at least up to 1660, the heir apparent of the King of Denmark and Norway was generally titled \"Prince of Norway\", in recognition to his hereditary right to succeed to the Norwegian throne upon the death of the king, as opposed to the need to pass an election in order to succeed to the Danish throne. Other members of House of Oldenburg, including any younger siblings of the Prince of Norway, were not called princes or princesses of Norway, but the title \"Heir of Norway\" was sooner or later accorded to them.\n\nNext, the heads of the line descending from Haakon V of Norway's illegitimate, but succession-entitlement-recognized daughter Agnes Haakonardottir, started also to use the same title \"Heir of Norway\". They got support from monarchs of the Swedish Empire to their pretension, being interested in challenging the Danish grip to Norway. Their forefathers (or predecessors in claim line) had in the 14th and 15th centuries launched their ambitions towards Norwegian throne even as revolts - see Sudreim claim.\n\n"}
{"id": "1854341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854341", "title": "Arthur Asahel Shurcliff", "text": "Arthur Asahel Shurcliff\n\nArthur Asahel Shurcliff (1870–1957) was a noted American landscape architect. Born Arthur Asahel Shurtleff, he changed his last name in 1930 in order, he said, to conform to the \"ancient spelling of the family name\". After over 30 years of success as a practicing landscape architect and town planner, in 1928 he was called upon by John D. Rockefeller Jr., and the Boston architectural firm of Perry, Shaw & Hepburn to serve as Chief Landscape Architect for the restoration and recreation of the gardens, landscape, and town planning of Colonial Williamsburg, Virginia, a position he held until his retirement in 1941. It was the largest and most important commission of his career.\n\nShurcliff was born in Boston, Massachusetts, studied engineering at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (1889–1894), and upon the advice of Charles Eliot and Frederick Law Olmsted, enrolled at Harvard University for studies in art history, surveying, horticulture and design. After his graduation in 1896, he joined Olmsted's Brookline landscape architecture firm. In 1899, he aided Frederick Law Olmsted Jr. in founding America's first four-year landscape architecture school at Harvard University. He set up his own Boston practice in 1904. The following year, 1905, he married Margaret Homer Nichols, with whom he had six children. An early member of the American Society of Landscape Architects he later served two terms as its president(1928–1932).\n\nIn addition to the gardens, landscapes, and town planning of Colonial Williamsburg, his better known public works include the laying out of Old Sturbridge Village, the Charles River Esplanade, the redesign of Frederick Law Olmsted's Back Bay Fens and the zoological park at Franklin Park, all three in Boston. He served as a consultant to the Boston Parks Department, the Metropolitan District Commission and the Metropolitan Planning Board. More Boston works include the Paul Revere Mall (also called The Prado) in the North End, and the John Harvard Mall in Charlestown, both located along the Freedom Trail. Among numerous private commissions are included Carter's Grove and Wilton House Museum in Virginia, Greatwood Gardens at Goddard College, Plainfield, Vermont; the Wells brothers' estates at Sturbridge, Massachusetts (creators and funders of Old Sturbridge Village); the Brookview-Irvington Park, Lafayette Place, and Wildwood Park communities in Fort Wayne, Indiana; and the Richard Crane estate at Ipswich, Massachusetts.\n\nHis wife was the great, great, great-granddaughter of Thomas Johnson, the first person in America to build church organs as a regular business. They had a son, Sidney, born in 1906 who took school courses in engineering and automobile mechanics. \n\n\nFuller Gardens in NH\nCushing, Elizabeth Hope. \"Arthur A. Shurcliff: Design, Preservation, and the Creation of the Colonial Williamsburg Landscape\". 2014. Amherst, MA: Library of American Landscape History and University of Massachusetts Press.\n"}
{"id": "1854348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854348", "title": "Michael Hayes (wrestler)", "text": "Michael Hayes (wrestler)\n\nMichael Seitz (born March 29, 1959) is an American retired professional wrestler and former musician. Seitz is best known for leading The Fabulous Freebirds under the ring name Michael \"P.S.\" (\"Purely Sexy\") Hayes and for his role as an announcer under the name Dok Hendrix in the World Wrestling Federation (WWF). He currently works with WWE as one of the senior producers.\n\nHayes started wrestling in 1977 in the Tennessee regional promotions. In 1978, he wrestled his first tour overseas in Germany for Catch Wrestling Association. In 1979, wrestling for Mid South Wrestling at the suggestion of Bill Watts he formed a tag team with Terry \"Bam Bam\" Gordy winning the Mid South Tag Team Championship 3 times and became the wrestling faction called The Fabulous Freebirds. Hayes became Michael \"P.S.\" Hayes, and they strutted their way to many tag team titles along with Buddy \"Jack\" Roberts. Hayes also started moonwalking in the ring like Michael Jackson used to do in concert.\n\nThe Freebirds spent 1980 through 1982 in the NWA's Georgia Championship Wrestling area, where they won the NWA National Tag Team Championship a few times, split and feuded, then mended fences.\n\nIn 1982, they left for World Class Championship Wrestling (WCCW), where they had one of their most famous feuds. Hayes was chosen by the fans to be the special guest referee during the Ric Flair-Kerry Von Erich NWA World Heavyweight Championship steel cage match at Christmas Star Wars. Hayes at one point knocked Flair out so Von Erich could get the pin and the title. Von Erich refused to pin him after the dirty deed which ultimately led to Gordy slamming the cage door on Von Erich's head. As this later cost him the title, it triggered the legendary feud between The Fabulous Freebirds and The Von Erichs and ended a good respectful friendship between both groups. The Freebird-Von Erich feud ended for good in 1993 during a memorial card in tribute to Kerry Von Erich.\n\nHayes was always the leader of the group with his exceptional mic skills and he recorded the team's new theme song, \"Badstreet USA\", in 1983. The video to the song features all three of The Fabulous Freebirds as well as Jimmy Garvin, who was often considered the fourth Freebird. They had used the Lynyrd Skynyrd song \"Free Bird\" and Willie Nelson's version of \"Georgia on My Mind\" up to that point and would on occasion in the future.\n\nIn 1984, The Freebirds had a brief stint in the WWF but left when management wanted to split them up. The Freebirds then spent a few months in the AWA in 1985, feuding with The Road Warriors over the AWA World Tag Team Championship, winning the belts temporarily at the inaugural SuperClash event before the AWA overturned the decision. The Freebirds interfered in the match where the Warriors lost the belts to Jimmy Garvin and Steve Regal, and subsequently returned to Texas.\n\nIn 1986, Hayes appeared in the opening credits of \"Highlander\" alongside The Fabulous Freebirds, working his Purely Sexy gimmick on the turnbuckle while writhing free of his ring robe.\n\nThe Freebirds also spent several months in the Universal Wrestling Federation in 1986 and early 1987 with Sunshine as their manager. There they feuded with The Fantastics (Bobby Fulton and Tommy Rogers) and with \"Dr. Death\" Steve Williams.\n\nIn 1986, Hayes' partner in the Freebirds, Terry Gordy, became the first holder of the UWF heavyweight title. After losing the title by default to One Man Gang, the Freebirds engaged in a major heel vs heel feud with Skandor Akbar's Devastation Inc. group. The feud continued even after Akbar double-crossed Gang and helped Big Bubba Rogers win the title from him, and saw the Freebirds form an alliance with their former enemy Williams against Devastation Inc.\n\nAfter the breakup of the Freebirds, Hayes became a full-fledged babyface and remained in the UWF, which was later sold to Jim Crockett Promotions (JCP) on April 9, 1987. At the JCP/UWF co-promoted pay-per-view event Starrcade '87, Hayes teamed with Jimmy Garvin (also now a babyface after reconciling with kayfabe brother Ron Garvin) and Sting to face the team of Eddie Gilbert, Rick Steiner and Larry Zbyszko whom they wrestled to a time-limit draw. He later challenged NWA World Champion Ric Flair and frequently teamed with Jimmy Garvin.\n\nHayes returned to World Class Championship Wrestling to find that his former Freebird partners Gordy and Roberts, in alliance with Iceman Parsons and The Angel of Death, had resumed their feud with the Von Erichs. After Gordy and Roberts helped Parsons win the World Class heavyweight title from Kerry Von Erich by bashing Kerry with socks loaded with weights while the arena lights were mysteriously turned off, a disgusted Hayes allied himself with the Von Erichs against his former Freebird 'brothers'.\n\nAt the 1988 Parade of Champions, Gordy defeated Hayes in a hair vs hair \"triple dome of terror\" (three vertically stacked cages) match. After the match, however, Gordy refused to cut Hayes' hair and instead turned babyface on Roberts and cut \"his\" hair. Subsequently, Hayes and Gordy reunited as babyfaces and feuded with Roberts and his Samoan Swat Team as well as old Freebird enemies Devastation Inc, of whom Parsons was now a member.\n\nWhile all this was going on, Hayes continued with his music career, often playing concerts with his Badstreet Band at the Dallas Sportatorium, World Class's main arena. Inevitably, the music career overlapped with World Class' storylines when, at one such concert, Roberts appeared onstage and hit Hayes over the head with a guitar. Hayes also formed a new tag team with \"Do It To It\" Steve Cox and together they twice briefly beat the Samoan Swat Team for the World Class tag team titles, on September 12–16, 1988 and October 15–17, 1988.\n\nIn 1989, Hayes went to World Championship Wrestling (WCW) (formerly JCP) where he wrestled as a face. He turned on U.S. Champ Lex Luger during a match with Hiro Matsuda's \"Yamazaki Corporation\" and joined them. The stable included Ric Flair, Barry and Kendall Windham, and Butch Reed. Hayes feuded with Luger and won the U.S. Title from him after Terry Gordy surprised everybody and interfered in the match. Luger later regained the title from Hayes and The Freebirds entered the tournament to crown new NWA World tag team champions.\n\nAt Clash of the Champions VII, on June 14, 1989, Jimmy Garvin showed up as the newest Freebird and he and Hayes won the tournament and titles (thus reuniting their old tag team from JCP circa 1987). The new champions immediately feuded with The Midnight Express (Bobby Eaton and Stan Lane). Gordy left in late 1989 and Hayes and Garvin feuded with The Rock 'n' Roll Express (Ricky Morton and Robert Gibson).\n\nIn 1991, The Freebirds feuded with \"The Young Pistols\" (Steve Armstrong and Tracy Smothers). They soon added another Freebird, the masked Badstreet. He helped them win the U.S. Tag Team Titles and they all won the Six-Man Titles. They also had two managers briefly, Big Daddy Dink and Diamond Dallas Page. Once Badstreet departed from the group in late 1991, The Freebirds were left with no real direction. The Freebirds turned face, and Garvin's wife Precious became their on-screen manager. Although they won the U.S. Tag Titles again, The Freebirds disbanded by late 1992.\n\nHayes then turned heel again and started managing Arn Anderson and Bobby Eaton, who were still members of the Dangerous Alliance. He became a member of sorts and even helped Paul E. Dangerously in his feud with Madusa. In 1993, Hayes became a fan favorite again and feuded with Paul Orndorff over the TV Title and then briefly teamed (and later feuded) with Johnny B. Badd and also did some commentating before quitting WCW in January 1994, after being offered a $75,000 a year contract (Hayes would make one final appearance in WCW at SuperBrawl IV in February).\n\nHe went back to Dallas to the Global Wrestling Federation and reunited with Garvin and Gordy as The Freebirds, whom he managed them to win their Tag Team Championship, before the company folded that September. After the GWF folded, Hayes remained in Dallas for the National Wrestling Alliance's stay in Dallas, which lasted until April 1995.\n\nMichael Hayes received a tryout match with the WWF on February 21, 1995 at a \"WWF Superstars\" taping in Augusta, Georgia. Wrestling in a dark match, Hayes competed as a face and defeated Ken Raper. However he retired from active competition due to a serious back injury he suffered while in WCW and after the NWA's Dallas promotion ended, and debuted on April 14 instead as Dok Hendrix, \"WWF Action Zone\" co-host with Todd Pettengill. As Dok Hendrix, he interviewed wrestlers before their matches and initially acted more like a heel, though that was later dropped. His most famous interviews include \"The birth of Austin 3:16,\" \"The Super Soaker DX\" commercials, and hosting most of WWF's products. Hayes also worked as a color commentator in 1995 with Vince McMahon on \"WWF Superstars\" and on the In Your House 1 and the 1995 King of the Ring pay-per-view events.\n\nHayes returned to active competition in 1999 for Power Pro Wrestling, where he won the promotion's title. He soon came back to WWF TV as the manager for The Hardy Boyz (Matt and Jeff Hardy). The Hardy Boyz lost the Tag Team Titles to The Acolytes at Fully Loaded when Hayes was pinned in a handicap match; he was fired by them in August.\n\nHe then became a backstage road agent (producer) and color commentator for the WWF. Initially appearing for one night on the September 23, 1999 broadcast of \"SmackDown!\", Hayes became a color commentator on \"Sunday Night Heat\" alongside Michael Cole and Kevin Kelly from 2000 to 2001, although he was mostly used on the international broadcasts of that show. At WrestleMania X-Seven on April 1, 2001, he competed in the gimmick Battle Royal, but was eliminated by the One Man Gang.\n\nDuring the December 5, 2005 episode of \"RAW\", he became involved in verbal sparring with Edge in which Hayes attacked Edge's lack of main event experience and the details of his love life (with regard to Matt Hardy and Lita). Hayes was later attacked by Edge.\n\nIn October 2006, Hayes became the head creative writer for the \"SmackDown\" brand after Alex Greenfield's departure from the company. He can be seen on the second season of WWE Classics on Demand series \"Legends of Wrestling\".\n\nHayes made occasional appearances on WWE programmes: on the December 7, 2007 episode of \"SmackDown\", Hayes was a guest of MVP's VIP Lounge. Hayes promoted the new \"Triumph and Tragedy of WCCW\" DVD and reinforced its anti-drug message. However, Hayes ended up being attacked by MVP before being saved by Rey Mysterio, Jr.\n\nOn June 28, 2010 episode of \"Raw\", Hayes was one of several Legends who accompanied Ricky \"The Dragon\" Steamboat, who was out to promote his new DVD. Hayes and the other legends were later attacked by the NXT season 1 graduates, collectively known as The Nexus. On the May 12, 2011 episode of \"WWE Superstars\", Hayes accompanied Tyson Kidd to the ring but turned on him a week later after Kidd lost his match to Yoshi Tatsu. Hayes hit Kidd, stating he had better things to do than hang around losers.\n\nIn October 2013, Hayes took a leave of absence from WWE for personal reasons, but he returned to work on December 2, 2013.\n\nOn August 1, 2014 Hayes appeared in a short segment on the online series \"JBL and Cole Show\" in which he stared at a \"Free Birds, call to enquire\" flier. In February 2015, Hayes partook in a WWE.com interview alongside Arn Anderson with Michael Cole to discuss Triple H and Sting's match at WrestleMania 31.\n\nOn April 2, 2016, Hayes was inducted into the WWE Hall of Fame with the Fabulous Freebirds. Hayes accepted the award alongside Jimmy Garvin.\n\nIn 1987, on the back of the popularity of the \"Badstreet USA\" theme, Hayes recorded and released an album, \"Off The Streets\". He also performed live concerts to promote the album with his backing band, the Badstreet Band. The July 1988 issue of \"Pro Wrestling Illustrated\" (written circa March 1988) contained a (possibly kayfabed) column by writer Dave Rosenbaum in which he visited the box office for a Badstreet Band show and surveyed what sort of people would actually go to Hayes' concerts.\n\nIn 1992, Hayes performed a duet with music producer Darwin Conort called \"Freebird Forever\" on the WCW album, \"Slam Jam 1\".\n\nIn 2011, Hayes paid tribute to his Freebird brother Terry Gordy, who died of a heart attack caused by a blood clot in 2001, with a song entitled \"Freebird Road\" produced w/Darwin Conort, based on Johnny VanZant's \"Brickyard Road\" ( w/permissions) His music video was an emotional and stirring trip down memory lane as a Freebird and shows shots of him at Gordy's grave.\n\n\n\n\nTrack list:\n\n"}
{"id": "1854356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854356", "title": "Kapuskasing Airport", "text": "Kapuskasing Airport\n\nKapuskasing Airport, , is located west of the town of Kapuskasing in northern Ontario, Canada. The airport formerly handled scheduled passenger service through Bearskin Airlines, which flew to Timmins but that service was discontinued at the end of June 2017. It is an Airport of Entry, providing customs services for general aviation flights arriving directly from the United States.\n\nGeneral Motors uses the airport's runways for cold-weather testing of ground vehicles. It is also used for emergency medical flights.\n"}
{"id": "1854367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854367", "title": "1999 in Swedish football", "text": "1999 in Swedish football\n\nThe 1999 season in Swedish football, starting January 1999 and ending December 1999:\n\n----\n\n\nPrint\n\nOnline\n"}
{"id": "1854369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854369", "title": "Hydraulic head", "text": "Hydraulic head\n\nHydraulic head or piezometric head is a specific measurement of liquid pressure above a vertical datum.\n\nIt is usually measured as a liquid surface elevation, expressed in units of length, at the entrance (or bottom) of a piezometer. In an aquifer, it can be calculated from the depth to water in a piezometric well (a specialized water well), and given information of the piezometer's elevation and screen depth. Hydraulic head can similarly be measured in a column of water using a standpipe piezometer by measuring the height of the water surface in the tube relative to a common datum. The hydraulic head can be used to determine a \"hydraulic gradient\" between two or more points.\n\nIn fluid dynamics, \"head\" is a concept that relates the energy in an incompressible fluid to the height of an equivalent static column of that fluid. From Bernoulli's Principle, the total energy at a given point in a fluid is the energy associated with the movement of the fluid, plus energy from static pressure in the fluid, plus energy from the height of the fluid relative to an arbitrary datum. Head is expressed in units of height such as meters or feet.\n\nThe \"static head\" of a pump is the maximum height (pressure) it can deliver. The capability of the pump at a certain RPM can be read from its Q-H curve (flow vs. height).\n\nA common misconception is that the head equals the fluid's energy per unit weight, while, in fact, the term with pressure does not represent any type of energy (in the Bernoulli equation for an incompressible fluid this term represents work of pressure forces). Head is useful in specifying centrifugal pumps because their pumping characteristics tend to be independent of the fluid's density.\n\nThere are four types of head used to calculate the total head in and out of a pump:\n\nAfter free falling through a height formula_1 in a vacuum from an initial velocity of 0, a mass will have reached a speed\n\nwhere formula_3 is the acceleration due to gravity. Rearranged as a \"head\":\n\nThe term formula_5 is called the \"velocity head\", expressed as a length measurement. In a flowing fluid, it represents the energy of the fluid due to its bulk motion.\n\nThe total hydraulic head of a fluid is composed of \"pressure head\" and \"elevation head\". The pressure head is the equivalent gauge pressure of a column of water at the base of the piezometer, and the elevation head is the relative potential energy in terms of an elevation. The \"head equation\", a simplified form of the Bernoulli Principle for incompressible fluids, can be expressed as:\nwhere\n\nIn an example with a 400 m deep piezometer, with an elevation of 1000 m, and a depth to water of 100 m: \"z\" = 600 m, \"ψ\" = 300 m, and \"h\" = 900 m.\n\nThe pressure head can be expressed as:\nwhere\n\nThe pressure head is dependent on the density of water, which can vary depending on both the temperature and chemical composition (salinity, in particular). This means that the hydraulic head calculation is dependent on the density of the water within the piezometer. If one or more hydraulic head measurements are to be compared, they need to be standardized, usually to their \"fresh water head\", which can be calculated as:\nwhere\n\nThe \"hydraulic gradient\" is a vector gradient between two or more hydraulic head measurements over the length of the flow path. For groundwater, it is also called the 'Darcy slope', since it determines the quantity of a Darcy flux or discharge. It also has applications in open-channel flow where it can be used to determine whether a reach is gaining or losing energy. A dimensionless hydraulic gradient can be calculated between two points with known head values as:\nwhere\n\nThe hydraulic gradient can be expressed in vector notation, using the del operator. This requires a hydraulic head field, which can be practically obtained only from numerical models, such as MODFLOW for groundwater or standard step or HEC-RAS for open channels. In Cartesian coordinates, this can be expressed as:\nThis vector describes the direction of the groundwater flow, where negative values indicate flow along the dimension, and zero indicates 'no flow'. As with any other example in physics, energy must flow from high to low, which is why the flow is in the negative gradient. This vector can be used in conjunction with Darcy's law and a tensor of hydraulic conductivity to determine the flux of water in three dimensions.\n\nThe distribution of hydraulic head through an aquifer determines where groundwater will flow. In a hydrostatic example (first figure), where the hydraulic head is constant, there is no flow. However, if there is a difference in hydraulic head from the top to bottom due to draining from the bottom (second figure), the water will flow downward, due to the difference in head, also called the \"hydraulic gradient\".\n\nEven though it is convention to use gauge pressure in the calculation of hydraulic head, it is more correct to use total pressure (gauge pressure + atmospheric pressure), since this is truly what drives groundwater flow. Often detailed observations of barometric pressure are not available at each well through time, so this is often disregarded (contributing to large errors at locations where hydraulic gradients are low or the angle between wells is acute.)\n\nThe effects of changes in atmospheric pressure upon water levels observed in wells has been known for many years. The effect is a direct one, an increase in atmospheric pressure is an increase in load on the water in the aquifer, which increases the depth to water (lowers the water level elevation). Pascal first qualitatively observed these effects in the 17th century, and they were more rigorously described by the soil physicist Edgar Buckingham (working for the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA)) using air flow models in 1907.\n\nIn any real moving fluid, energy is dissipated due to friction; turbulence dissipates even more energy for high Reynolds number flows. This dissipation, called \"head loss\", is divided into two main categories, \"major losses\" associated with energy loss per length of pipe, and \"minor losses\" associated with bends, fittings, valves, etc. The most common equation used to calculate major head losses is the Darcy–Weisbach equation. Older, more empirical approaches are the Hazen–Williams equation and the Prony equation.\n\nFor relatively short pipe systems, with a relatively large number of bends and fittings, minor losses can easily exceed major losses. In design, minor losses are usually estimated from tables using coefficients or a simpler and less accurate reduction of minor losses to equivalent length of pipe, a method often used for shortcut calculations of pneumatic conveying lines pressure drop.\n\nHydraulic head is a measure of energy, and has many analogs in physics and chemistry, where the same mathematical principles and rules apply:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1854370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854370", "title": "Haifa Bat Galim central bus station", "text": "Haifa Bat Galim central bus station\n\nThe Haifa Bat Galim central bus station was named after the neighborhood of Bat Galim. Until January 1, 2002, it served all Egged intercity bus routes originating and terminating in Haifa, as well as most local routes. The Bat Galim station was in use for about thirty years.\n\nOn January 1, 2002, the new HaMifratz central bus station opened. At that time, all buses coming from the North and the Galilee began to terminate at the new station, and new more frequent lines operated between the two stations. In late 2003, the Hof HaCarmel central bus station opened, replacing the Bat Galim central bus station as the main bus station in Haifa. All bus lines coming from the South now terminate there, and the Bat Galim station has become just a stop between the two other stations. Free transfers are available inside Haifa for passengers using Egged's intercity bus lines. All three stations connect to local lines within the city of Haifa as well. \n\nThe bus platforms at the Bat Galim central bus station were outdoors. The building also housed outdoor stores and restaurants. On the lower level, one side of the building was used for departures, and the other for arrivals. On the upper level, buses arrived on the side of the building used for departures below. There is a tower above the station. A pedestrian tunnel connects the Bat Galim railway station, the Bat Galim bus station and the eastbound bus stops on the opposite side of HaHagana Road.\n\nCurrently, the Bat Galim bus station is only used to store Egged buses, and the tower is used by Egged as office space. Intra-city buses now stop on the road, rather than inside the station, on the route between the Hof HaCarmel central bus station and the HaMifratz central bus station. Several buses have their terminus at new platforms outside the station. All of the original platforms are now closed, as are most stores and restaurants. The business area of the station now hosts strip clubs. The pedestrian tunnel is still in use.\n"}
{"id": "1854371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854371", "title": "Władysław Stanisław Zamoyski", "text": "Władysław Stanisław Zamoyski\n\nCount Władysław Stanisław Zamoyski (1803–1868) was a Polish nobleman, politician, and general.\n\nZamoyski was the owner of estates in Cewków. He served as aide-de-camp to Grand Duke Constantine, commander-in-chief of the army and \"de facto\" viceroy of Congress Poland. He took part in the November Uprising of 1830–1831. Working with Adam Jerzy Czartoryski he became one of the main activists in the Hôtel Lambert group. He emigrated to England, where he represented the interests of Czartoryski's government-in-exile. In 1848–1849 he organized Polish units in Italy, serving with the Sardinian Army to fight against the Austrians (1848–49), and later, in 1855, he led a Polish cavalry division in the Ottoman Army during the Crimean War.\n\nIn March 1831, Zamoyski was awarded the Gold Cross of the Virtuti Militari.\n\nHe was married to Jadwiga Działyńska and had four children: Władysław Zamoyski, Witold Zamoyski, Maria Zamoyska (1857-1857) and Maria Zamoyska (1860-1937).\n\nHe died in 1868 and was buried in Paris.\n"}
{"id": "1854374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854374", "title": "Władysław Zamoyski", "text": "Władysław Zamoyski\n\nCount Władysław Zamoyski (1853–1924) was a French-born Polish nobleman (szlachcic), diplomat and heir of Kórnik, Głuchów, Janusz, Babin and Bargów (estates in the Grand Duchy of Poznań). Having acquired estates on the Polish side of the Tatra Mountains and in Zakopane, he was an early ecologist and philanthropist. He was mentor to Józef Retinger, who was to become an international political activist during the two world wars and beyond, following the death of the latter's father.\n\nHe was born in Paris the elder son of general Władysław Zamoyski, Crimean War veteran, and Jadwiga née Działyńska. He had two sisters, Maria (1857-1858) who died in England and a further Maria Zamoyska (1860-1937). In 1871 he took the baccalauréat at the Lycée Charlemagne and between 1874 and 1878 made four attempts to gain entry to the École polytechnique. It is not certain that he succeeded as sources vary on the subject. He served in the French Army and rose to the rank of second lieutenant. As a representative of the French government, he travelled to Australia and Oceania to take part in exhibitions and brought back valuable ethnogrophical items.\n\nZamoyski moved to Poland when he inherited Kórnik (with the castle, library and arboretum) in Greater Poland, and other properties from his uncle, Jan Kanty Działyński in 1881. In 1885, as a French citizen, he was expelled from Kórnik by the Prussians and consequently moved to Zakopane in Galicia. There, he promoted the activity of the Poznań (mortgage) Bank. In 1889, concerned to save the Tatra forests, he bought at auction the Zakopane estates, beating by one cent, the bid of the timber and mining industrialist, Józef Goldfinger. With Andrzej Chramiec he succeeded in bringing the railway from Chabówka to Zakopane and building a Macadamised road link to the mountain resort.\n\nHe succeeded in winning a boundary dispute with Hungary at the International Tribunal in Graz over the ownership of \"Morskie Oko\", the Tatran lake and the adjacent territory. \n\nHe next travelled back to France where with his surviving sister, Maria, he founded several charitable and educational institutions for the Polish émigré population, notably, \"Opieka Polska\". He was chairman of the \"Czci i Chleba\" charity and was a co-founder of the \nPolish Literary and Arts Society.\n\nHe returned to Poland in 1920. Neither he nor his sister ever married. He left all his properties to the Polish nation in his will, and initiated the Polish Institute of Dendrology in Kórnik.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1854380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854380", "title": "51st Highland Volunteers", "text": "51st Highland Volunteers\n\nThe 51st Highland Volunteers (51 HIGHLAND) is a battalion in the British Army's Army Reserve or reserve force in the Scottish Highlands, forming the 7th Battalion of the Royal Regiment of Scotland, also known as 7 SCOTS. It is one of two Reserve battalions in the Royal Regiment of Scotland, along with 52nd Lowland (6 SCOTS), a similar unit located in the Scottish Lowlands. \n\nOriginally formed as the 51st Highland Volunteers in 1967, as a result of the amalgamation of Territorial Battalions within the infantry Regiments of the Highland Brigade, the name commemorated the 51st (Highland) Division of the Territorial Force, within which many of the Regiment's antecedent Territorial Battalions served during the First and Second World Wars.\n\nThe current Battalion traces its lineage back to the reserve Rifle Volunteer units that were originally raised in the Scottish Highlands as part of the Victorian Volunteer Force by Lord Lieutenants in every county. These included Highland units from the north-west of Scotland such as the Argyllshire Rifle Volunteers, the Inverness-shire Rifle Volunteers, the Ross-shire Rifle Volunteers and the Sutherland Rifle Volunteers. However, the lineage also includes elements of the Forfarshire Rifle Volunteers, the Perthshire Rifle Volunteers, the Fifeshire Rifle Volunteers, the Elginshire Rifle Volunteers, the Aberdeenshire Rifle Volunteers, the Banffshire Rifle Volunteers, the Renfrewshire Rifle Volunteers, and the Clackmananshire Rifle Volunteers.\n\nThe current unit is the direct descendant of the infantry battalions that made up the 51st (Highland) Division, of which Highland Rifle Volunteer units became a part. This division was formed as part of the Haldane Reforms, which integrated the Volunteer Force, Militia and the Yeomanry into the nascent Territorial Force, created by the Territorial and Reserve Forces Act 1907.\n\nThese units saw action as part of 51st Highland Division at the Battle of the Somme, the Battle of Arras, the Third Battle of Ypres and the Battle of Cambrai in France during the First World War.\n\nAfter the Armistice, the Territorial Force and its formations were disbanded. It was re-established, by the Territorial Army and Militia Act 1921, as the Territorial Army however, and the original Highland Territorial Battalions were reconstituted, although there were several amalgamations.\n\nDuring the Second World War these units again saw action as part of 51st (Highland) Infantry Division but many troops were detained as prisoners of war in Germany after more than 10,000 members of the division were taken prisoner at St Valery.\n\nIn August 1946 the 51st (Highland) Division was disbanded. Shortly afterwards however the formation was revived as part of the 51st/52nd (Scottish) Division, created via an amalgamation with the 52nd (Lowland) Division. They once again became a Territorial Division upon demobilisation in 1948.\n\nIn 1950, the 51st/52nd (Scottish) Division was split, restoring the independence of the 51st Highland Division, which took regional command of Territorial Army units based in the Scottish Highlands, including the TA infantry battalions of the Highland Brigade regiments.\n\nBritish forces contracted dramatically as the end of National Service took place in 1960, as announced in the 1957 Defence White Paper. As a result, on 20 July 1960, a reorganisation of the TA was announced by the War Office.\n\nThis was followed by complete reorganisation as announced in the 1966 Defence White Paper. The 51st Highland Volunteers were formed in 1967 from the amalgamation of territorial battalions of regiments in the Highland Brigade. It was a TAVR II (NATO reserve role) unit with headquarters located at Perth, Scotland.\n\n51st Highland Vounteers c.1967\n\nIn 1969, the three TAVRIII (Home defence) battalions were reduced in size and amalgamated into the 51st Highland Volunteers, forming three additional companies:\n\nOn 1 April 1971, the 51st Highland Volunteers split into two battalions. A third battalion was subsequently formed on 1 April 1975.\n\n51st Highland Volunteers c. 1975\n\nIn 1981, the 3rd Battalion effectively became the Territorial battalion of the Argyll and Sutherland Highlanders; in 1995, it became the 7th/8th (V) Battalion of that regiment. The 2nd Battalion became the 3rd (V) Battalion of The Highlanders.\n\nA Z (Home Service Force) Company was formed in 1984 at Perth, Kirkcaldy and Dundee. A number of re-organizations and company re-locations also occurred in the 1980s. Between 1992 and 1993, the remaining elements of 1st Battalion, the 51st Highland Volunteers were again reorganised.\n\n51st Highland Volunteers c.1993\n\nThe 1st Battalion was subsequently redesignated (in 1994) as the 3rd (Volunteer) Battalion, The Black Watch (Royal Highland Regiment).\n\nThe regiment was re-formed in 1999 by the amalgamation of all three battalions (viz 7/8 Argyll and Sutherland Highlanders, 3 The Highlanders, and 3 Black Watch) into a single battalion, the 51st Highland Regiment (51 HIGHLAND), in consequence of the reforms of the Territorial Army in the Strategic Defence Review. It had one support company and five rifle companies.\n\n51st Highland Regiment c.1999\n\nAs part of the Delivering Security in a Changing World review of the British Army, on 28 March 2006, the 51st Highland Regiment became the 7th Battalion, The Royal Regiment of Scotland (also known as (7 SCOTS)).\n\nThe battalion headquarters is based at Queen's Barracks in Perth. The Highland Band of the Royal Regiment of Scotland (Reserve) is administered by the battalion, as well as the unit's own battalion Pipes and Drums. Under the Army 2020 Refine, the battalion was paired with 3 SCOTS as a light infantry battalion. The battalion is currently made up of one support company and three rifle companies:\n\n7th (51st Highland Volunteers) Battalion c.2020\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1854384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854384", "title": "BR549", "text": "BR549\n\nBR549 (originally spelled BR5-49) was an American country music band founded in 1993. It originally consisted of Gary Bennett (lead and background vocals, acoustic guitar), Don Herron (steel guitar, Dobro, fiddle, mandolin, acoustic guitar), \"Smilin'\" Jay McDowell (upright bass), Chuck Mead (lead and background vocals, acoustic guitar, electric guitar), and \"Hawk\" Shaw Wilson (drums, background vocals). Bennett and McDowell left the band in 2001, with Chris Scruggs and Geoff Firebaugh respectively replacing them. Both Firebaugh and Scruggs later left the band as well; Mark Miller has become the band's third bassist. The name of the band is an homage to comedian Junior Samples.\n\nBR549 has released six albums and two EPs, including three albums on Arista Nashville and two on Dualtone Records. The band's self-titled debut album produced three singles on the \"Billboard\" country charts in 1996. The band was nominated three times for the Grammy Award for Best Country Performance by a Duo or Group with Vocal.\n\nBefore moving to Nashville and forming BR5-49, Chuck Mead played in a band called Homestead Grays, a roots-rock outfit based in his hometown of Lawrence, Kansas. Gary Bennett, meanwhile fronted an informal band that played at Robert's Western Wear, a clothing store in Nashville, Tennessee, when he met Mead at a nearby bar. The two then decided to form a band officially, and completing the lineup were electric bassist Jim \"Bones\" Becker, then upright bassist \"Smilin'\" Jay McDowell (formerly of another band called Hellbilly), multi-instrumentalist Don Herron, and drummer \"Hawk\" Shaw Wilson. They assumed the name BR5-49 (from the telephone number of a used car dealer in a running Junior Samples comedy sketch on the television series \"Hee Haw\"), and began playing for tips at Robert's before being discovered by Arista Nashville in 1995.\n\nThe band's first release for Arista Nashville was an extended play entitled \"Live at Robert's\", which comprised originals and cover songs. Following it in 1996 was their full-length debut album, also titled \"BR5-49\". Despite minimal support from country radio, the album's lead-off single \"Cherokee Boogie\" (a cover of a Moon Mullican song) reached No. 44 on the \"Billboard\" country singles charts in the US, and No. 21 on the \"RPM\" country charts in Canada. Following this song were \"Even If It's Wrong\" and \"Little Ramona (Gone Hillbilly Nuts)\", which respectively reached No. 68 and No. 61 in the US. The album itself was a No. 33 on the Top Country Albums chart. The band also toured with The Mavericks, Junior Brown, and The Black Crowes and played on the PBS music program \"Austin City Limits\" in 1997. According to the All Music Guide to Country, BR5-49's recording of \"Honky Tonk Song\" on the BR5-49 album should be considered an essential country song, although it does not consider either the album itself, or the group essential.\n\nBR5-49's second album, \"Big Backyard Beat Show\", was released in 1998. Despite not producing a chart single, this album reached No. 38 on the Top Country Albums chart. After touring with Brian Setzer, the band issued a live album, \"Coast to Coast\", in 1999 on Arista as well. The band left Arista in 2000 after the label was merged with Sony BMG.\n\nAfter being dropped from Arista, they signed to Lucky Dog Records, a subsidiary of Epic Records. Their first release for the label, 2001's \"This Is BR549\", also eliminated the hyphen from the band's name. Its only single, \"Too Lazy to Work, Too Nervous to Steal\", peaked at No. 11 on Country Singles Sales but did not enter the country singles charts proper. After this album, both Bennett and McDowell left the band, with Geoff Firebaugh succeeding McDowell as upright bassist, and Chris Scruggs taking over on guitar and vocals. The new lineup made its first appearance in 2003 on their self released album \"Temporarily Disconnected\". In 2004, they signed with Dualtone Records and released \"Tangled in the Pines\". Scruggs left the band to tour solo in 2005. Firebaugh also left to start his own band, Hillbilly Casino. Mark Miller replaced Firebaugh. A second album for Dualtone, \"Dog Days\", was released in early 2006.\n\nThe band is currently on hiatus, with Chuck Mead working solo with Mark Miller playing bass, and Don Herron touring with Bob Dylan. On July 12, 2012, Jay McDowell announced on his personal Facebook page that the original line-up of BR5-49 would open for Old Crow Medicine Show at Woods Amphitheater in Nashville, TN on July 28. On July 27, 2012 the (reunited) original lineup recorded an original Gary Bennett song called \"A Truck Stop Christmas\" at the East Nashville Studio of Phil Harris, which was released on the 2012 Christmas compilation \"An East Nashville Christmas\". On May 9, 2013, it was announced that the original lineup would play together live once again, this time at the Havelock Country Jamboree in Canada on August 17, 2013.\n\nInitially, BR549's sound was influenced by 1950s honky tonk, as well as Western swing, rockabilly and Bakersfield sound. Steve Huey of AllMusic described their sound and appearance as \"unabashedly retro\", as the band's members dressed in \"old, budget-friendly clothes\".\n\nOriginal co-frontman Gary Bennett released his solo debut, \"Human Condition\", in February 2006. In October 2010 Raucous Records released Bennett's follow up album \"My Ol' Guitar\" co-produced by Kenny Vaughan and including several BR549 re-recordings. Smilin' Jay McDowell has gone on to work in post production in the music video world. He is now in charge of the video department for the Musicians Hall of Fame and Museum in Nashville. He directed a DVD project for Gary Bennett titled \"Inside and Out\". Former bassist Geoff Firebaugh founded a rockabilly band named Hillbilly Casino that are a crowd favorite in downtown Nashville on lower Broadway. Chris Scruggs released a solo album titled \"Anthem\" in 2009. As of 2015, he is the bassist and multi-instrumentalist in Marty Stuart’s backing band, The Fabulous Superlatives.\n\nChuck Mead released \"Journeyman's Wager\" in 2009 and toured with his Grassy Knoll Boys in support of the release; this was followed by the classic-country covers album \"Back at the Quonset Hut\" in 2012 and \"Free State Serenade\" in 2014. In 2006 Chuck began his association with the hit Broadway Musical \"Million Dollar Quartet\" beginning in Florida as the Musical Arranger and Musical Director; he has also worked with the cast at The Village Theatre near Seattle, Washington, The Goodman Theatre in Chicago and The Nederlander Theatre on Broadway in New York City. He is currently working with the new cast in England as they prepare to open at The Noël Coward Theatre in City of Westminster. \n\nMark Miller was a founding member of The Ex-Husbands, formed in New York City in 1993 with lead singer Anders Thomsen and drummer Michael Smith. The band released two critically acclaimed albums on Tar Hut Records – a self-titled debut and the follow-up, \"All Gussied Up\". Both made the Gavin Americana top 20 and the latter reached that chart's top 10. Miller released the solo record \"Dodsen Chapel\" in 2005.\n\nOriginal bass picker Jim \"Bones\" Becker is now retired and says, \"I'm not doing anything now, and I'm getting damn good at it!\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1854385", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854385", "title": "Brooke Valentine", "text": "Brooke Valentine\n\nKanesha Nichole Brookes (born October 5, 1984), better known by her stage name Brooke Valentine, is an American singer, actress, and model. Her single \"Girlfight\" peaked on U.S. music charts in 2005, paving the way for her debut album \"Chain Letter\" released via Subliminal Entertainment imprint on Virgin Records and went on to sell more than 290,000 units worldwide. After a first attempt at a comeback, Brooke officially returned to the spotlight in 2012 with two singles \"Forever\" and the Adult R&B Top 40 hit \"Don't Wanna Be In Love\".\n\nValentine was born in Houston, Texas She started her musical career as a member of the female group Best Kept Secret. To pursue a solo career, she moved to Los Angeles, California with producer and Subliminal Entertainment CEO Deja the Great and signed to Virgin Records.\n\nBrooke Valentine made her debut with the hit single, \"Girlfight\", which featured Lil Jon and Big Boi, which peaked at #23 on the Billboard Hot 100 and #13 on the R&B chart. It succeeded internationally, peaking in the Top 50 in Australia and Ireland, and Top 40 in New Zealand and the United Kingdom. She then released her debut album \"Chain Letter\" in 2005 which debuted at #16 on the US \"Billboard\" 200 and #3 on the U.S. \"Billboard\" Top R&B/Hip Hop Albums charts. A follow-up single \"Long as You Come Home\" peaked at #71 on the US R&B/Hip-Hop chart, while a third (the ballad \"Covergirl\") was released digitally but not sent to radio.\n\nLater that year, collaborated with rappers Fabolous and Yo Yo on the single \"Boogie Oogie Oogie\" for the \"Roll Bounce\" soundtrack.\n\nIn 2006, Valentine set work on her second studio album, \"Physical Education\". She released the set's lead single \"D-Girl\" featuring Pimp C that year, peaking at #92 on the Billboard R&B/Hip Hop Singles chart. A follow-up single \"Pimped Out\" featuring Dem Franchize Boyz was released but failed to catch on.\n\nEventually, the \"Physical Education\" project was put on hold due to Virgin Records’ merger with Capitol Records in 2008. Subliminal Entertainment CEO Deja the Great then acquired the masters and the contract rights from Virgin Records, and material from the project was released independently on the \"Physical Education Mixtape\" in 2009.\n\nShe later said in an interview that the project was a \"paper album\" with Virgin, as it was a forced effort due to her being on the label's timeline for a new release and being set up with all the \"hot\" producers at the time. In addition to not turning in the complete album to the label, Valentine was also dealing with the death of her cousin during the \"D-Girl\" single release, all of which added to the album not being initially released.\n\nIn a 2010 interview, Valentine said that she took a break and has been writing music for other artists, and was now working on new material.\n\nThat year, she also gave birth to her first child, a son named London. In 2012, she did an interview with Essence Magazine discussing raising her son's cerebral palsy diagnosis. She also penned an open letter to him with Ebony Magazine, calling him her \"tiny hero.\"\n\nAdding to her stage name the alias B. Valentine, she released a music video for the song \"Insanity\" in January 2012, shot entirely on an Apple iPad and directed by Subliminal CEO Deja the Great. She announced a new album titled \"Forever\" set for release later in the year, led by a new single \"Forever\" which premiered on February 14, 2012. \"Rub It In\" (a collaboration with Tyrese) was announced as the set's second single and released as a digital single, but the album was later pushed back in lieu of a new project.\n\nIn 2013, she released a new EP titled \"Love Letters\" which garnered a positive response. A single from the set, \"Don't Wanna Be In Love\" was released and peaked at #29 on the Billboard Adult R&B chart, marking her first chart appearance in six years.\n\nIn 2014, she filmed scenes for the L.A.-spin off cast of VH1's hit reality series \"Love & Hip Hop\", but ultimately did not make the cut. Since then, she's been working on her second studio album.\n\nIn 2016, she released a series of new digital singles, with \"Grow Up\" on April 29, \"#CRAIG\" (produced by Yonni) on July 2, and \"Games\" on October 5.\n\nIn June 2017, it was confirmed she will appear on the new season of VH1's popular series \"\" alongside newcomers Keyshia Cole and Chanel West Coast. She was promoted to a series regular on season five.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1854387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854387", "title": "Roberts Radio", "text": "Roberts Radio\n\nRoberts Radio is a consumer electronics limited company based in Mexborough, South Yorkshire, England. It has been producing radios for over 80 years. Initially, the company only traded in the United Kingdom, but now exports worldwide. The company was initially based in central London, near Oxford Circus and then at Rathbone Place, but moved to East Molesey in 1941. \n\nIn 1962, the company had a purpose built factory constructed in West Molesey. The company has been granted three Royal warrants in its own right, and one via the purchase of Dynatron Radio Ltd, in 1981.\n\nThe company was founded in 1932 by Harry Roberts and Leslie Bidmead They financed the down payment on a small factory, by selling Bidmead's motorbike.\n\nRoberts produced their first DAB digital radio in 1999.\n\nThe company was struggling in the 1980s until one of its transistor radios appeared in an advert in 1989 for Martini, reviving interest in the product. Two limited edition product runs sold out, and led to the reissue of the original design as the Revival model, inspired by a handbag belonging to Harry Roberts' wife Elsie.\n\nRoberts Radio has been a subsidiary since 1994 of the privately owned GlenDimplex Group, which operates from the Republic of Ireland. \n\nThe company's current MD is Robin van Rozen. \n\n"}
{"id": "1854394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854394", "title": "Benigno C. Hernández", "text": "Benigno C. Hernández\n\nBenigno Cárdenas Hernández (February 13, 1862 – October 18, 1954) was the first Hispanic from New Mexico to serve as a full member of Congress.\n\nHernández was born in Taos, New Mexico to Juan J. and Maria M. Hernández as the third of 15 children, where in his early years he attended both private and public schools. As a young man he moved to Lumberton in Rio Arriba County, where he raised sheep. In 1882 he returned to Taos, where he worked as a store clerk. In 1888 he became a private merchant, and for the next few years lived in various communities in New Mexico. In 1893 he established a store in Lumberton and six years later he set up the headquarters for his business activities in Tierra Amarilla, the county seat for Rio Arriba County.\n\nIn 1900 Hernández began his political career when he became probate clerk and recorder in Tierra Amarilla. In 1904 he was elected county sheriff of Rio Arriba County and served for two years. From 1908 to 1912 he served as county treasurer and tax collector. In 1912 he was appointed receiver in the State Land Office in Santa Fe. During his tenure as an elected county official, he also served as a delegate to numerous State Republican Conventions. He resigned from the Santa Fe post the following year and returned to his business.\n\nIn 1914 Hernández was elected to the U.S. House of Representatives; he sought reelection in 1916, but was defeated by William B. Walton. He was a delegate to the Republican National Convention that year, as he had been at the last one. Hernández was elected to the U.S. House seat again in 1918 when Walton ran for the U.S. Senate instead of seeking reelection. During his tenure in Congress, Hernández served on the Committee on Indian Affairs, the Agriculture Committee, and the Committee on Public Lands. He showed a special interest in the construction of an infrastructure for New Mexico, including bridges, reservoirs, dams, and public buildings.\n\nIn 1921, Hernández completed his second term and returned to New Mexico. On April 22, 1921 President Warren G. Harding appointed him collector of Internal Revenue for New Mexico. Hernández held that post until the inauguration of the Democratic administration of Franklin D. Roosevelt in 1933, when he resigned and retired from active political life at age seventy-one. In 1934, he became an organizer for the political advocacy group League of United Latin American Citizens. During World War II he served on the Selective Service Board of New Mexico. In the early 1950s Hernández moved to Los Angeles, California, and died there at age 92.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1854395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854395", "title": "Appanoose County Community Railroad", "text": "Appanoose County Community Railroad\n\nThe Appanoose County Community Railroad was based out of Centerville, Iowa. It was a shortline running to the community of Albia, Iowa, where it distributed cars from Centerville to be put on the BNSF Railway's trains.\n\nThe railroad was hit hard when the local Rubbermaid plant in Centerville (APNC's premier customer) closed its doors on September 15, 2006. At least 75% of the cargo hauled by the shortline was from Rubbermaid. The railroad was partly operated by the county. In 2016, a new railroad, the Iowa Southern Railway (ISRY), took over operations on the line. It is one of the short-line railroads operated by Progressive Rail Incorporated.\n\nEvery July, the APNC Railroad offered train rides from Moravia, Iowa. The train traveled from Moravia to Albia. Several different trains were operated each day, and one of the two GP7s pulled them.\n\nThe APNC railroad, now Iowa Southern, passes through four Iowa towns: Centerville, Udell, Moravia and Albia.\n"}
{"id": "1854397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854397", "title": "Solar Striker", "text": "Solar Striker\n\n\"\"The year is 2159. The Earth Federal Government was established, linking the people with a common government against other species. As part of this new addition and to defend the human race's peace and safety, the Earth Federal Army was also created.\"\"\n\n\"\"The army went on the offensive, and attacked a star known as 'Turin.' However, the Earth Federal Army was no match for the overwhelming combat power of Turin, and Earth's fate seemed sealed. As Earth's last chance, a top-secret mobile unit developed a very advanced space fighter in Earth's last fortification. Flying with the mothership, 'Mother Atena', it arrived at Turin's solar system as the last chance for a violent and final attack on the Turin forces. This advanced spacecraft, and Earth's last hope for survival, is code-named 'Solar Striker'.\"\"\n\nThe player controls the advanced space fighter, code-named \"Solar Striker\". There are six levels of play against enemies known as the forces of Reticulon. These enemies appear from the top of the screen. The player can amass power-ups by shooting special ships. One power-up doubles the player's firepower, three power-ups triples the player's firepower, and five power-ups causes shots to explode on impact with enemies, greatly aiding combat against tough enemies and bosses that take many hits to destroy. There are a variety of enemies as well as sub-bosses in later levels. When the player completes all six levels for the first time and after the credits roll, the player will be able to play Hard Mode by pressing Select instead of Start from the title screen.\n\n\"Solar Striker\" was designed by Gunpei Yokoi and Keisuke Terasaki, and developed by Nintendo in co-operation with the external company Minakuchi Engineering. It was first published in Japan on January 26, 1990, then released later in North America in February, and finally in Europe on September 28. As such, it is one of the few scrolling shooters developed by Nintendo.\n\n\"Solar Striker\" has been met with generally favorable reviews. It earned an overall score of 75% at \"GameRankings\". \"Mean Machines\" described \"Solar Striker\" as \"adequate\", but noted there was a lack of material to keep players interested, giving the game a score of 69%. Allgame rated it 2.5/5, describing it as a \"decent shooter but nothing great\", and citing its difficulty as a deterrent to enjoying it. \"Games Are Fun\" gave it a 7 out of 10. German magazine \"Power Play\" praised the title for its variety in terms of enemies and levels, though noted the underlying simplicity of the game as well, giving it a score of 70%.\n\nAuthor Jeff Rovin in the book \"How to Win at Game Boy Games\" described the title as \"one of the oldest kinds of Nintendo games\", comparing it to SNK's \"Alpha Mission\" but added there were too few instances of innovation or surprises, and the powerups were \"unsatisfying\".\n\nThe background music for Level 1 and Level 2 was used in the beginning of the \"\" episode, \"The Trouble With Tetris\", in a slightly altered form. A space craft seen in the same part of the episode resembles the Solar Striker on the Japanese box art of the game. The Level 1 background music was also used in later season 2 episodes of \"Captain N: The Game Master\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1854398", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854398", "title": "A King in New York", "text": "A King in New York\n\nA King in New York is a 1957 British comedy film directed by and starring Charlie Chaplin in his last leading role, which co-stars, among others, his young son Michael. The film presents a satirical view of the McCarthy communist-hunt era and certain other aspects of United States politics and society. The film, which was produced in Europe after Chaplin's exile from the U.S. in 1952, did not open in the United States until 1972. For this reason, the movie was presented on the island of Ischia, in Italy.\n\n\"One of the minor annoyances in modern life is a revolution.\" Deposed by revolution in his home country of Estrovia, King Igor Shahdov (Charlie Chaplin) comes to New York City almost broke, his securities having been stolen by his own Prime Minister. He tries to contact the Atomic Energy Commission with his ideas for using atomic power to create a utopia.\n\nAt a dinner party, some of which is televised live (unbeknown to him), Shahdov reveals he has had some experience in the theatre. He's approached to do TV commercials but does not like the idea. Later, he does make a few commercials in order to get some money.\n\nInvited to speak at a progressive school, Shahdov meets Rupert Macabee (Michael Chaplin), a ten-year-old historian and editor of the school paper who doesn't want to disclose his political affinity due to fear of McCarthyism. Macabee proceeds to give Shahdov a stern Marxist lecture. Although Rupert himself says he distrusts all forms of government, his parents are Communists who are jailed for not giving up names at a Joseph McCarthy-type hearing. Because young Rupert had spent time with him, Shahdov is suspected of being a Communist himself, and has to face one of the hearings. He is cleared of all charges, but not before a scene in which Shadhov accidentally directs a strong stream of water from a fire hose at the members of the \"House Committee on Un-American Activities\" (HUAC), who scatter in panic. He decides to join his estranged queen in Paris for a reconciliation.\n\nIn the meantime, the authorities force the child to reveal the names of his parents' friends in exchange for his parents' freedom. Grieving and guilt-ridden, Rupert is presented to King Shahdov as a \"patriot\". Shahdov reassures him that the anti-Communist scare is a lot of nonsense which will be over soon and invites him to come to Europe with his parents for a visit.\n\nIn addition to its condemnation of HUAC's methods, the film takes witty potshots at American commercialism, popular music, celebrity culture, and film. A dinner party scene includes a number of satirical portrayals of actors and public figures of the period, including Sophie Tucker.\n\n\nThe film did well in Europe, but its lack of U.S. distribution severely hampered its commercial impact. The film divides opinion over its merits. \"Variety\" called it a \"tepid disappointment\" and a \"half-hearted comedy with sour political undertones\" with some \"spasmodically funny scenes\". The film has a \"fresh\" rating of 80% on the review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, based on 10 reviews.\n\nChaplin biographer Jeffrey Vance, writing in 2003, believes \"A King in New York\" to be an important film within Chaplin's body of work. He concludes his lengthy examination of the film with the statement, \"Although \"A King in New York\" targets the social and political climate of the 1950s, its satiric commentary is timeless. Despite its flaws, the film remains a fascinating study of life in America through the eyes of its most famous exile\".\n\nThe film was eventually released in the United States in March 1972, opening at the Little Art theatre in Yellow Springs, Ohio. It was then shown at the UCLA in November 1973 and then opened at the Playboy theatre in New York on December 19, 1973.\n\n"}
{"id": "1854401", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854401", "title": "Dar ul-Funun (Persia)", "text": "Dar ul-Funun (Persia)\n\nDar ul-Funun ( , meaning \"Polytechnic\"), established in 1851, was the first modern university and modern institution of higher learning in Iran (Persia).\n\nFounded by Amir Kabir, then the royal vizier to Nasereddin Shah, the Shah of Persia, Dar al-Funun originally was conceived as a polytechnic to train upper-class Persian youth in medicine, engineering, military science, and geology. It was similar in scope and purpose to American land grant colleges like Purdue and Texas A&M. Like them, it developed and expanded its mission over the next hundred years, eventually becoming the University of Tehran.\n\nThe institute was planned by the Iranian educated Mirza Reza Mohandes, and built by the architect Muhammad Taqi Khan Memar-Bashi under the supervision of the Qajar prince Bahram Mirza. Facilities such as an assembly hall, a theater, library, cafeteria, and a publishing house were built for the institute. In 1930, the building was destroyed by Mirza Yahya Khan Qaragozlu (also known as Etemad-od-Dowleh), then Minister of Education, and rebuilt based on a Russian engineering design.\n\nMany parts of the institute were later on absorbed and merged into the newly establishing Tehran University. The Faculty of Medicine for example, was particularly the successor to the Dar ul-Funun Department of Medicine, established in 1851, which had become the School of Medicine (Madreseh-ye tebb) in 1919.\n\nThe elite school was training 287 students by 1889, and had graduated 1100 students by 1891. During this time, the faculty consisted of 16 European, and 26 Iranian professors.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1854403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854403", "title": "Maltby le Marsh", "text": "Maltby le Marsh\n\nMaltby le Marsh is a village and civil parish in the East Lindsey district of Lincolnshire, England. The village is situated between Alford and Mablethorpe, and at the junction of the A1104 and A157 roads.\n\nMaltby le Marsh contains a shop, newsagent, post office, and service station, the Crown Inn and Turks Head public houses, and Oham (fishing) Lake.\n\nMaltby le Marsh tower mill is disused, with sails removed, but the brick base survives. All trace of a previous post mill has disappeared.\n\nPreviously there existed a 12th-century Anglican church, a Baptist chapel and a Methodist chapel. The Anglican church is disused – the village shares the church at Beesby. The Baptist chapel has been converted to a house, and the Methodist to the village hall, which is shared with Strubby and Beesby.\n\n"}
{"id": "1854417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854417", "title": "Eqtesad-e Golestan (newspaper)", "text": "Eqtesad-e Golestan (newspaper)\n\nEqtesad-e Golestan (اقتصاد گلستان lit. \"Golestan Economics\") is an independent socio-economic Persian language weekly paper published in Gorgan, Golestan, Iran. The first issue appeared on the newsstands throughout Golestan province and especially in the capital, Gorgan city, on 18 February 2005.\n\nThis is the fourteenth regular newspaper or magazine to be published in the province since 1996.\n\nMoosa Jorjani, a Sunni Muslim of the Iranian Turkomen ethnic minority origin, is its license holder and official director, and Abdonnasser Mohaimeni, an Iranian Shii Muslim of Persian origin is its editor-in-chief and executive manager. At 22,500 copies for each issue, the newspaper has the largest circulation recorded in the history of local newspapers in North Iran.\n\n\"Eqtesad-e Golestan\" is usually published in eight (and sometimes twelve) pages, with the first and last pages being in full color. The size of each page is 35 cm by 50 cm.\n\nAt present, the newspaper is in no way a specialised one, but rather a general socio-cultural and economic weekly covering news, articles, commentaries and advertisements related to local, national and international matters.\n"}
{"id": "1854418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854418", "title": "Gertrude Morgan", "text": "Gertrude Morgan\n\nSister Gertrude Morgan (April 7, 1900 – July 8, 1980) was a self-taught African American artist, musician, poet and preacher. Born in LaFayette, Alabama, she relocated to New Orleans in 1939, where she lived and worked until her death in 1980. Sister Morgan achieved critical acclaim during her lifetime for her folk art paintings. Her work has been included in many groundbreaking exhibitions of visionary and folk art from the 1970s onwards.\n\nSister Morgan was born Gertrude Williams in Lafayette, Alabama, to mother Frances \"Fannie\" Williams and father Edward Williams. She was the seventh child of a poor rural family.\n\nFor reasons unknown, Sister Morgan left school before completing the third grade. Around 1917 her family moved to Columbus, Georgia, where she worked as a servant and nursemaid in a private home.\n\nGertrude Williams married Will Morgan on February 12, 1928. She lived with her husband at 1324 North Avenue in Columbus, GA. While there is no evidence of a divorce, it is known that Sister Morgan left Columbus alone in 1938, traveling first to Alabama and then to New Orleans, where she would settle.\n\nSister Morgan's first documented involvement with religion came in her late teens, when she joined the Rose Hill Memorial Baptist Church, a local congregation in Columbus, Georgia. After she began painting in 1956, Sister Morgan documented this time in her life in the paintings \"THE ROSE HILL MEMORiAL BAPTiST CHURCH, Columbus Ga. \"(n.d.) and \"Rose Hill Memorial Baptist Church\" (n.d.). These paintings narrate the shifts in the Rose Hill church leadership, after the death of Reverend Miller in 1930.\n\nThe first of many revelations that Gertrude was to experience came in 1934. The story of this revelation is inscribed on one of her paintings, \"1324 NO AVE COLUMBUS GA.\" (n.d.). On it she has written, \"Sitting in my Kitchen one night I heard a great strong Voice speak to me said I'll make thee as a signet for I have chosen thee I got this calling on the 30th day of Dec in 1934 I had to answere to my calling and one day give up and Pack up and go … a chosed vessel of God's its wonderful to Be. God called me a chased me and turned me into the hands of his son and JESUS said take up your cross and follow me.\"\n\nIn 1938 a second revelation followed, in the form of a voice that said, \"Go-o-o-o-o, Preacher, tell it to the World\". It was in this year that she left Columbus, first for Opelika, Alabama, then to Mobile and possibly Montgomery. She worked as a nursemaid and nanny in Opelika and Mobile, and possibly began work as a healer and street prophet during this time.\n\nWhen she arrived in New Orleans in 1939, Sister Gertrude met Mother Margaret Parker and Sister Cora Williams. The two women were involved in the Holiness and Sanctified movement, an African American faith in which the activities of music, song and dance were central. The three women soon established a mission and orphanage at Mother Parker's house at 533 Flake Avenue in Lower Gentilly, then on the outskirts of New Orleans. The orphanage was funded by money raised from preaching and performing in the streets.\n\nThe three women adopted black robes, and gave shelter to as many as twenty orphans and runaways at a time. (In Sister Gertrude's paintings, the three women are pictured in their black robes, adorned with white collars, cuffs and waist ties). As Gentilly was a fairly rural area at this time, they raised livestock and grew vegetables on the land surrounding the large house. They held neighborhood feasts at the Orphanage, where the 'Prophetesses' (as Sister Morgan would later name them in her paintings) would play the piano, drums, cymbals and beat tambourines. In addition to street preaching, the three women visited Orleans Parish Prison, providing spiritual guidance for inmates, as well as traveling to other towns in Louisiana and Texas for church camps and meetings. Sister Morgan worked at the orphanage until 1957.\n\nAfter leaving Gentilly, Sister Morgan roomed in various houses, mostly in the Lower Ninth Ward, an historically African American neighborhood in Orleans Parish. Eventually she settled at 5444 North Dorgenois street in the Lower Ninth, in a single shotgun house with the owner of the property, Jennie Johnson. The lawn of the property was allegedly covered in four leafed clovers, a detail that can be glimpsed in black and white photographs of the property. She named it the \"Everlasting Gospel Mission\", and turned the first room of the house into a prayer room where she would give sermons. Her paintings adorned the white walls of the prayer room, which also contained a small desk, a tapping stick, musical instruments and her painted paper megaphones that she would use to preach.\n\nMorgan's former house and mission remained a neighborhood landmark after her death. Like the rest of the neighborhood, it was severely damaged in the Federal levee failure flood disaster during Hurricane Katrina in 2005. The damaged house was gutted in hopes it could be repaired and renovated, but was subsequently demolished.\n\nIn 1957 Sister Morgan received another revelation from God. Dreaming, she heard a voice that told her she was the Bride of Christ. She then discarded her black missionary attire in favor of an all-white ensemble made up of a nurses' uniform, peaked nurses' cap and matching white shoes.\n\nIn 1956, Sister Gertrude Morgan received another revelation from God urging her to paint. She understood the act of painting as a tool to be used in her service to the Lord, just as she used music in her street preaching. Sister Morgan used her early paintings as visual aids in her sermons and teachings, often with children. Her paintings depict religious subject matter almost exclusively, illustrating scenes from scripture. The Book of Revelation was of special significance, and provided subject matter that she would return to over and over again in her work.\n\nSimilar to other self-taught artists, Sister Morgan used simple forms to depict the human figure. Her works are characterized by their lack of the use of formal techniques such as perspective and definition of light and shadow, giving them a flat, two dimensional quality. She painted and drew using acrylics, tempera, ballpoint pen, watercolors, crayon, colored and lead pencils and felt tip markers. Using inexpensive materials she had at hand, Sister Morgan painted on paper, toilet rolls, plastic pitchers, paper megaphones, scrap wood, lampshades, paper fans and styrofoam trays. The fact that she was self-taught, coupled with her choice of materials as well as her style and subject matter have led her to be characterized as a naive, folk, visionary, vernacular and outsider artist.\n\nOriginally conceiving her artworks as appendages to her gospel teachings, Sister Morgan's paintings are often inscribed with passages from scripture and lyrics to popular gospel songs. Similarly, her paintings that document her childhood, early adulthood and first years in New Orleans are inscribed with the narratives of specific events, that often reference her evangelical activities.\n\nMorgan particularly favored the Book of Revelations. William A. Fagaly writes, \"The apocalyptic text of the Book of Revelation offers a plethora of visionary images: the Apocalypse and its four horsemen, the Antichrist, the Whore of Babylon, the Beast (with the mark 666), the heavenly book of seven seals, Armageddon, the return of the Jews to the Holy Land, the millennial kingdom of Christ on Earth, and the New Jerusalem.\" It is for her paintings of New Jerusalem that Sister Morgan is most well known. The holy city of New Jerusalem \"coming down from God out of heaven\" was consistently depicted as a multi storey apartment building in her compositions. In some of her New Jerusalem paintings, a choir of interracial angels adorn the sky. The choir of angels frequent many of her paintings, sometimes as one of many elements in a composition, and other times as the sole subject.\n\nAnother recurring image in her work is a self-portrait as the Bride of Christ, riding with Jesus in an airplane. There is speculation that this references the hymn \"Oh, Jesus Is My Air-o-plane\", recorded in 1930. Another hymn, \"Jesus, Savior, Pilot Me\", first published in 1871 by Edward Hopper, establishes a related Jesus-as-pilot motif.\n\nHer later work is characterized by the dominance of the inscriptions. Her imagery becomes sparse and in some compositions non-existent.\n\nSister Morgan signed her paintings with many names, among them Black Angel, Lamb Bride, Nurse to Doctor Jesus, Everlasting Gospel Revelation Preacher, Bride of Christ and Little Ethiopia Girl.\n\nAround 1960, art dealer Larry Borenstein met Sister Morgan while she was preaching in the French Quarter. He invited her to perform and exhibit work in his art gallery after coming upon her shouting on a street corner with a paper megaphone. Borenstein cultivated an audience for her work by introducing her paintings to collectors, artists, museums and galleries. Lee Friedlander and Andy Warhol were both fans of her work. Warhol was an occasional correspondents, while Friedlander used Sister Morgan as a subject in his photographs.\n\nIn 1970 poet and performer Rod McKuen, a fan and collector of Morgan's work used thirteen of her illustrations to accompany a book of Bible quotations, \"God's Greatest Hits\". It sold more than 300 000 copies. \n\nOne of the tempera and paint illustrations from \"God's Greatest Hits\" is held by the Smithsonian's Evans-Tibbs Collection.\n\nIn 1970, Sister Morgan's work was shown at the Arts and Science Centre in Baton Rouge, LA.\n\nIn 1973 her work was included in the exhibition \"Louisiana Folk Paintings\" at the Museum of American Folk Art (now the American Folk Art Museum) in New York. The three-person exhibit displayed over 75 of Sister Morgan's paintings, alongside fellow visionary artists Clementine Hunter and Bruce Brice. It was also in 1973 that the NOMA exhibited Sister Morgan's work for the first time, in a show titled \"Naive Art in Louisiana.\"\n\nIn 1982 the exhibition \"Black Folk Art in America, 1930-1980\" featured twenty artists (including Sister Morgan) and close to 400 paintings and sculptures. It opened at the Corcoran Museum of Art and went on to tour the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art, The Saint Louis Art Museum, The Baltimore Museum of Art, the Des Moines Art Center and the Cleveland Museum of Art.\n\nIn 2004, the first major retrospective of Morgan's work \"The Tools of Her Ministry: the Art of Sister Gertrude Morgan\" opened at the Folk Art Museum in New York City. The exhibition was curated by William A. Fagaly, former Director of the New Orleans Museum of Art (NOMA). This exhibition then traveled to NOMA and later to The Center for Intuitive and Outsider Art in Chicago. The exhibition was accompanied by the publication of a catalogue containing essays by William A. Fagaly, Jason A. Berry and Helen M. Shannon.\n\nSister Morgan's art brought her fame and notoriety, something she reportedly both enjoyed and felt conflicted about. In 1973 she announced that the Lord had ordered her to cease painting in order to concentrate on her preaching and poetry. 'Painting now? Oh no,' she reportedly said in 1974. I'm way too worried. Worrying about what time it is and praying on people's cases.'\"\n\nMusic was another tool of Sister Morgan's ministry. In the early 1970s, \"Let's Make A Record\" was recorded in order to capture Morgan singing and playing her tambourine. In 2004 the original album was re-released on the Preservation Hall Recordings label.\n\nIn 2005, the Ropeadope label released \"King Britt presents Sister Gertrude Morgan\", which took the a cappella/tambourine recordings of \"Let's Make A Record\" and added contemporary beat programming and instrumentation. The album received rave reviews and created a new, young audience for Sister Gertrude Morgan. The album artwork featured her paintings.\n\n\nOn July 8, 1980, Sister Morgan died in her sleep at her home in the Lower Ninth Ward. Her funeral arrangements were made by Larry Borenstein and a service was held at the well-to-do House of Bultman, on St. Charles Avenue. Her art work was displayed at the service, and \"Let's Make a Record\" played.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1854421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854421", "title": "Nidal Fat'hi Rabah Farahat", "text": "Nidal Fat'hi Rabah Farahat\n\nNidal Fat’hi Rabah Farahat' (, ) (8 April 197116 February 2003) created the Qassam rocket, a homemade weapon produced by the Izz ad-Din al-Qassam Brigades.\n\nAfter the Intifada, Farahat was arrested following the death of senior Hamas militant Imad Aqel. After spending three years in Israeli detention, he returned to Gaza.\n\nAt the beginning of the Al-Aqsa Intifada, in 2000, Farahat officially joined the Izz ad-Din al-Qassam Brigades and soon became an active member in the organization, planning and carrying out numerous operations including mortar attacks on Jewish settlements in the Gaza strip. In 2001, Farahat, after several months of work, produced the first prototype for the Qassam rocket and presented it to Izz ad-Din al-Qassam Brigades leaders Salah Shahade and Adnan al-Ghoul. Together with al-Ghoul, Farahat then worked on developing a better version of the Qassam, the \"Qassam 2\". Hamas militants used the Qassam 2 extensively after 2002 to attack nearby Israeli settlements and towns. Up to the beginning of 2005, the Qassam rockets were responsible for the death of 6 Israelis, all but one in the Israeli town of Sderot near the Gaza Strip, from which several hundreds of rockets were fired over a period of three years.\n\nFarahat also worked as a bombmaker, supplying Izz ad-Din al-Qassam Brigades militants with explosive devices and homemade rocket launchers like the Al-Bana and the Batar. He also worked, under the direction of Salama Hamad, on the conception of a drone that could fly over Israeli towns and cities and bomb them. On 16 February 2003, Farahat was working along with other militants around newly acquired parts of the drone when one of them, booby-trapped, exploded. The device killed Farahat and 5 other militants.\n\nThe youngest brother of Nidal Farahat, Mohammed, died on 7 March 2002, when he attacked a military academy in the Israeli settlement of Azmona, killing 5 young settlers. Farwad Farahat, another of his brothers, was killed in an IDF airstrike on his car south of Gaza City on his way to launch rockets at Israel in 2005. His three other brothers are alive, with one in prison since 1992 and the two others, Wessam Farahat and Momen Farahat still living in the Gaza Strip where they assume high-ranking functions in the Izz ad-Din al-Qassam Brigades. The latter sustained serious injuries to a hand while fighting against Israeli soldiers during an incursion in Gaza City in 2003. Finally, Nidal's mother, Maryam Farahat, nicknamed Um Nidal, was elected in the Palestinian parliament dominated by Hamas following the 26 January 2006 Palestinian legislative election.\n"}
{"id": "1854423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854423", "title": "Piano Concerto No. 4 (Saint-Saëns)", "text": "Piano Concerto No. 4 (Saint-Saëns)\n\nPiano Concerto No. 4 in C minor, Op. 44 by Camille Saint-Saëns, is the composer's most structurally innovative piano concerto. In one sense it is structured like a four-movement symphony, but these are grouped in pairs. That is, the piece is divided into two parts, each of which combines two main movements (I. A moderate-tempo Theme and Variations in C Minor; II. A slower, related Theme and Variations in Ab Major; III. Scherzo in C Minor; IV. Finale in C Major). However, in each part there is a bridge-like transitional section, between the two main \"movements\" – for example, a fugal Andante in part II functions as an interlude between the two main triple-meter sections.\n\n\nThe first movement begins with a gently mischievous chromatic subject, heard in dialogue between the strings and piano soloist, and continues in a creative thematic development similar to Saint-Saëns' third symphony. The composer demonstrates brilliant skill in employing the piano and orchestra almost equally. In the Andante, he introduces a hymn-like theme with the woodwinds (also strikingly similar to the tune of the third symphony's final section), and uses this as a platform on which he builds a series of variations before bringing the movement to a quiet close.\n\nThe Allegro vivace begins as a playful and cunning scherzo (although still in C minor), deriving its main theme from the original chromatic subject in the beginning of the first movement. There is a bold switch to 6/8 time, and the piano leads the orchestra into a new brief but energetic theme. Eventually the orchestra moves into a lush Andante, recapitulating the chorale-style melody. Rather suddenly, the piano climbs up to a flurry of double octave trills and a climactic trumpet fanfare, leading to the jubilant finale based once more on the hymn theme played at triple time. The concerto concludes with the piano, in cadenza-like cascades, guiding the orchestra to a \"fortissimo\" close.\n\nThe piano concerto was premièred on October 31, 1875, at the Théâtre du Châtelet of Paris, with the composer as the soloist. The concerto is dedicated to Anton Door, a professor of piano at the Vienna Conservatory. It continues to be one of Saint-Saëns' most popular piano concertos, second only to the Piano Concerto No. 2 in G minor. \n\n"}
{"id": "1854425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854425", "title": "Will Cotton", "text": "Will Cotton\n\nWill Cotton (born 1965 in Melrose, Massachusetts, U.S.) is an American painter. His work primarily features landscapes composed of sweets, often inhabited by human subjects. Will Cotton lives and works in New York City.\n\nCotton's works from the 1990s depicted pop icons sourced from contemporary advertisements such as the Nestlé Quick bunny - directly referencing visual modes aimed at evoking desire. Cotton described his early works in a 2008 interview, saying \"My initial impulse to make these paintings really came out of an awareness of the commercial consumer landscape that we live in. Every day we're bombarded with hundreds, if not thousands of messages designed specifically to incite desire within us.\"\n\nIn 1996, Cotton began to develop an iconography in which the landscape itself became an object of desire. The paintings often feature scenery made up entirely of pastries, candy and melting ice cream. He creates elaborate maquettes of these settings from real baked goods made in his Manhattan studio as a visual source for the final works. Since about 2002, nude or nearly nude pinup-style models have occasionally populated these candy-land scenes. As in the past, the works project a tactile indulgence in fanciful glut. The female characters are icons of indulgence and languor, reflecting the feel of the landscape itself. \"These paintings are all about a very specific place,\" says Cotton, \"It's a utopia where all desire is fulfilled all the time, meaning ultimately that there can be no desire, as there is no desire without lack.\"\n\nInterested in cultural iconography, Cotton's art makes use of the common language of consumer culture shared across geographical boundaries. He considers the visual threads in his work, drawn from imagery ranging from the \"Candy Land\" board game and gingerbread houses to pinup art and cotton candy, to be part of the popular culture lexicon. Cotton’s work also builds upon and updates the idea of land of milk and honey in European literature and art. Cotton states “The dream of paradise, of a land of plenty, is a thread that runs through all of human history, not just in the affluent times but in fact very often in the lean as well.” He has also been inspired by painters Frederic Edwin Church, François Boucher and Fragonard, the photographer Carleton Watkins, as well as pin-up painters such as Gil Elvgren. Of his landscape painting influences, Cotton says,\n\nI was initially drawn to the Hudson River School when I learned that many of the paintings were made specifically to incite a feeling of awe and a desire to experience the new frontier. This struck me as a particularly American kind of propagandist message that I wanted to reference in my paintings. I love the idea of showing ... what it might be like to experience such a place.\n\nWill Cotton has exhibited throughout the United States and Europe. He was represented by Mary Boone Gallery, New York, from 2000 until the gallery's closure in 2019. He is currently represented by Baldwin Gallery, Aspen, Colorado; Michael Kohn Gallery, Los Angeles; Galerie Daniel Templon, Paris, France, and Jablonka Galerie, Cologne, Germany. His works have also been exhibited at the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art (2000); the Seattle Art Museum (2002), the Kunsthalle Bielefeld, Germany (2004); the Hudson River Museum (2007); the Triennale di Milano, Italy (2007) the Musée Marmottan Monet, Paris (2008), the Orlando Museum of Art, and the Museo Nacional de Bellas Artes, Havana. \n\nHis work is in the collections of the Seattle Art Museum, Washington, the Smithsonian American Art Museum and the Columbus Museum of Art, Ohio.\n\nIn 2004 he received the Princess Grace Foundation award for contemporary art in Monaco. Will Cotton was awarded an honorary Doctorate from the New York Academy of Art where he was a senior critic in 2012.\n\nCotton installed a pop-up (model) French bakery art installation at Partners & Spade in Manhattan, New York. Confections and baked goods the artist used for visual reference were baked on site and were for sale over three weekends in November 2009. Bakery staff were fitted with custom-made tiaras of the kind Cotton paints atop the heads of many women in his paintings. \n\nCotton was the Artistic Director for Katy Perry's 2010 music video, California Gurls, which was based on themes and imagery from his paintings.\n\nIn his debut performance art work, \"Cockaigne\" for \"Performa 11\", Cotton employed the forms of both ballet and burlesque to create a celebration of whipped cream and cotton candy.\n\n"}
{"id": "1854431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854431", "title": "Zofia Czartoryska", "text": "Zofia Czartoryska\n\nPrincess Zofia Czartoryska (15 September 1778 – 27 February 1837) was a Polish noblewoman. She was the youngest daughter of Countess Izabela Czartoryska née Fleming and her husband Prince Adam Kazimierz Czartoryski, though her father may actually have been Count Franciszek Ksawery Branicki.\n\nShe married Stanisław Kostka Zamoyski on 20 May 1798, at Puławy.\n\nShe is an ancestor of Queen Mathilde of Belgium. Her daughter's Jadwiga Klementyna Zamoyska's and Prince Leon Sapieha-Kodenski's great-great-granddaughter, Princess Zofia Sapieha-Kodenska, is Queen Mathilde's maternal grandmother, who died in a car accident with the princess's sister, Marie-Alix d'Udekem d'Acoz. She is 7th-generation ancestor to Queen Mathilde.\n"}
{"id": "1854440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854440", "title": "Drawdown (hydrology)", "text": "Drawdown (hydrology)\n\nIn water-related science and engineering, there are two similar but distinct definitions in use for the word drawdown:\n\n\nIn either case, drawdown is the change in hydraulic head or water level relative to the initial spatial and temporal conditions of the system. Drawdown is often represented in cross-sectional diagrams of aquifers. A record of hydraulic head, or rate of flow (discharge), versus time is more generally called a hydrograph (in both groundwater and surface water). The main contributor to groundwater drawdown since the 1960s is over-exploitation of groundwater resources. \n\nDrawdown occurs in response to:\n\n\n\n\nGroundwater drawdown due to excessive water extraction can have adverse ecological impacts. Groundwater environments often have high biodiversity, however, drawdown alters the amount and types of nutrients released to surrounding organisms. In addition, nearby wetlands, fisheries, terrestrial and aquatic habitats may be altered with a reduction in the water available to these ecosystems, sometimes altering species ecophysiology.\n\nExtracting groundwater at a rate that is faster than it can be naturally replenished is often referred to as overdrafting. Overdrafting may decrease the amount of groundwater that naturally feeds surrounding water bodies, including wetlands, lakes, rivers and streams. Additionally, when a cone of depression is formed around a pumping well due to groundwater extraction, nearby groundwater sources may flow toward the well to replenish the cone, taking water from local streams and lakes. This may result in poor water quality in these local water bodies as baseflow water contribution is reduced, which could result in perennial streams becoming more intermittent, and intermittent streams becoming more ephemeral. Finally, drawdown from groundwater extraction may lead to an increased sensitivity of the ecosystem to climate change and may be a contributing factor to sea-level rise and land subsidence.\n\n"}
{"id": "1854449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854449", "title": "Hey Stoopid", "text": "Hey Stoopid\n\nHey Stoopid is the twelfth solo album by rock singer Alice Cooper, released on July 2, 1991 (see 1991 in music). After his smash 1989 hit album \"Trash\", Cooper attempted to continue his success with his follow-up album, which features guest performances from Slash, Ozzy Osbourne, Vinnie Moore, Joe Satriani, Steve Vai, Nikki Sixx and Mick Mars (both of Mötley Crüe). \"Hey Stoopid\" was Cooper's last album to feature bassist Hugh McDonald before he joined Bon Jovi in 1994.\n\nAccording to Cooper assistant Brian Renfield, an alternate cover was originally considered, described by Renfield as being \"hardcore with hypo needles, pills...\" Notably, the track \"Feed My Frankenstein\" features famed guitar duo Steve Vai and Joe Satriani playing together, accompanied by Nikki Sixx on Bass. It is also featured in the 1992 comedy film \"Wayne's World\" and on the official soundtrack. In 2014, \"Dangerous Tonight\" was featured in the video game \"Watch Dogs\".\n\nJapanese Release Bonus Track\n\n2013 remastered release bonus tracks.\nIn 1991, alongside the release of the album, a promotional CD entitled 'Stoopid News' (Epic ESK 4161) was released featuring 15 soundbites read by Alice, as follows:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1854458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854458", "title": "Drawdown (economics)", "text": "Drawdown (economics)\n\nThe drawdown is the measure of the decline from a historical peak in some variable (typically the cumulative profit or total open equity of a financial trading strategy).\n\nSomewhat more formally, if formula_1 is a stochastic process with formula_2, the drawdown at time formula_3, denoted formula_4,\nis defined as:formula_5The average drawdown (AvDD) up to time formula_3 is the time average of drawdowns that have occurred up to time formula_3:formula_8The maximum drawdown (MDD) up to time formula_3\nis the maximum of the drawdown over the history of the variable. More formally, the MDD is defined as:formula_10\n\nThe following pseudocode computes the Drawdown (\"DD\") and Max Drawdown (\"MDD\") of the variable \"NAV\", the Net Asset Value of an investment. Drawdown and Max Drawdown are calculated as percentages:\n\nThere are two main definitions of a drawdown:\n\nIn finance, the use of the maximum drawdown as an indicator of risk is particularly popular in the world of commodity trading advisors through the widespread use of three performance measures: the Calmar ratio, the Sterling ratio and the Burke ratio. These measures can be considered as a modification of the Sharpe ratio in the sense that the numerator is always the excess of mean returns over the risk-free rate while the standard deviation of returns in the denominator is replaced by some function of the drawdown.\n\nMany assume Max DD Duration is the length of time between new highs during which the Max DD (magnitude) occurred. But that isn’t always the case. The Max DD duration is the longest time between peaks, period. So it could be the time when the program also had its biggest peak to valley loss (and usually is, because the program needs a long time to recover from the largest loss), but it doesn’t have to be.\n\nWhen formula_11 is Brownian motion with drift, the expected behavior of the MDD as a function of\ntime is known. If formula_11 is represented as:formula_13Where formula_14 is a standard Wiener process, then there are three possible outcomes based on the behavior of the drift formula_15:\n\n\nWhere an amount of credit is offered, a drawdown against the line of credit results in a debt (which may have associated interest terms if the debt is not cleared according to an agreement.) \n\nWhere funds are made available, such as for a specific purpose, drawdowns occur if the funds – or a portion of the funds – are released when conditions are met.\n\nA passing glance at the mathematical definition of drawdown suggests significant difficulty in using an optimization framework to minimize the quantity, subject to other constraints; this is due to the non-convex nature of the problem. However, there is a way to turn the drawdown minimization problem into a linear program.\n\nThe authors start by proposing an auxiliary function formula_19, where formula_20 is a vector of portfolio returns, that is defined by:formula_21They call this the \"conditional drawdown-at-risk\" (CDaR); this is a nod to conditional value-at-risk (CVaR), which may also be optimized using linear programming. There are two limiting cases to be aware of:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1854463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854463", "title": "Hôtel-Dieu", "text": "Hôtel-Dieu\n\nIn French-speaking countries, a hôtel-Dieu () was originally a hospital for the poor and needy, run by the Catholic Church. Nowadays these buildings or institutions have either kept their function as a hospital, the one in Paris being the oldest and most renowned, or have been converted into hotels, museums, or general purpose buildings (for instance housing a préfecture, the administrative head office of a French department).\n\nTherefore, as a secondary meaning, the term hôtel-Dieu can also refer to the building itself, even if it no longer houses a hospital.\nExamples include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1854473", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854473", "title": "Pay for the Printer", "text": "Pay for the Printer\n\n\"Pay for the Printer\" is a science fiction short story by American writer Philip K. Dick. It was first published in \"Satellite Science Fiction\", in October 1956.\n\nIn a war-ravaged future, humanity has come to depend on an alien species known as the Biltongs, possessed of the ability to replicate items identically – although the copies only last for a short time. When the Biltongs become decrepit, the humans are forced to rediscover the skill of building.\n\nBradley Robert Arthur Congdon makes the case that \"Pay for the Printer\" is a critique \"of the culture of consumerism and mass production.\" Congdon connects Dick's story to a left wing analysis of the failings of capitalism, writing that, \"it is not much of a stretch to see that a Marxian idea of alienation is at work, where mankind is so alienated from its labour that the possibility of survival is hamstrung.\"\n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "1854474", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854474", "title": "One Touch (Sugababes album)", "text": "One Touch (Sugababes album)\n\nOne Touch is the debut studio album by British girl group Sugababes. It was released by London Records in the UK on 27 November 2000, and the following month in most other European territories. The trio worked with producer Cameron McVey on the majority of the album, which produced four Top 40 hits, including the hit \"Overload\", and \"Run for Cover\".\n\nDespite peaking at number 26 on the UK Albums Chart and being certified Gold by the BPI, and faring even better in German-speaking Europe, where it reached the top ten in Austria, Germany and Switzerland, the sales of \"One Touch\" did not meet the record company's expectations, and the group were eventually dropped in Autumn 2001, making it their only release with the label. In addition, it became the only album featuring the group's original line-up. Siobhán Donaghy left the group in 2001. She initially stated that she wanted to pursue a fashion career, but was eventually diagnosed with clinical depression amid reports of in-fighting between the Sugababes members.\n\nIn a March 2009 interview with Ponystep, former Sugababe Mutya Buena revealed that she thinks \"One Touch\" is the band's best work and that she still listens to it. Donaghy has also stated in a separate interview that the album had been \"ahead of its time\". In 2011 the original members who released \"One Touch\" reformed under the new name Mutya Keisha Siobhan, then in 2019 resumed performing as the Sugababes after securing the legal rights to the name.\n\nThe album received rave reviews, with critics applauding the girls, who were all only 15/16 years old at the time, for writing and singing songs that were considered to be unusually mature for their age. \"The Guardian\" called \"One Touch\" a \"fantastic album that encapsulates the sound of young America with enough style, attitude and originality to mesmerise\". Tim Perry from \"The Independent\" wrote that \"it's about time a half-decent pure-pop album got released, and over a dozen songs that jump playfully between upbeat R&B, poppy soul and groove-laden ballads, these three London schoolgirls have achieved it. What's more, they can actually sing. Listen and weep, Spice Girls: this is the future.\" Similarly \"Sunday Mirror\"s Ian Hyland commented on the album: \"All Saints can go off and have their babies. The future of funky British R'n'B is safe.\" David Brinn from \"Jerusalem Post\" noted that \"the Sugababes are the latest contender for the girl-group throne, and the London teen trio's opening shot, \"One Touch\", proves that they're one step ahead of the pack.\"\n\nAndy Strickland, writing for \"Yahoo!\" Music called \"One Touch\" \"just magnificent. Sugababes sing like angels – angels who've earned their wings listening to TLC and SWV not the Spice Girls.\" He concluded, \"at the risk of giving them the musical equivalent of shin-splints by putting them in the first team too early, this record announces the arrival of potentially one of the most important new groups for many years.\" \"The Daily Mail\" praied the trio as a \"spontaneous alternative to the stage school graduates who make up the numbers in most girl groups\" and added: The band \"moves effortlessly from the tight funk [...] to more reflective songs. Even on ballads they avoid sounding mushy: these Babes can be bitter as well as sweet.\" Dean Carlson from AllMusic complimented the album and rewarded it with a favourable three and a half out of five stars and wrote: \"\"One Touch\" is everything a post-Spice Girls teen pop debut should be – discreet, adolescent, and as unstudied as a late-night phone call about boys.\" \"Entertainment Ireland\" found that \"although the Sugababes name makes them sound like another slice of pop fluff, these new kids on the R'n'B block are actually much more interesting than that. Their [...] debut album shows a maturity and musical proficiency that many of their peers might envy. Their blend of cool, laid-back soul is distinguished by mature vocals, accomplished arrangements and oblique lyrics.\"\n\nOn 9 December 2000, \"One Touch\" debuted at number 77 in the United Kingdom with sales of 5,510 copies. After numerous weeks of fluctuating on the chart, the album made its final chart appearance on 17 February 2001 at number 76. Two months later, the album re-entered the chart at number 71, and reached its peak position of number 26 two weeks later. \"One Touch\" was certified Gold by the British Phonographic Industry, denoting shipments of 100,000 copies of the album. By October 2007, the album had sold approximately 220,000 copies in the UK alone. The album peaked at number 55 in Ireland.\n\n\"One Touch\" debuted at number nine in Austria, and peaked at number six the following week for two consecutive weeks. The album managed to remain in the chart for 16 weeks. In Germany, the album peaked at number seven, and spent 19 weeks in the chart. \"One Touch\" peaked at number eight for two weeks in Switzerland, where it spent 17 weeks on the chart. In Australia, \"One Touch\" debuted at number 86 on 6 August 2001. The album re-entered the chart at number 63 two weeks later, where it peaked. The album achieved more success in New Zealand, where it debuted at number 31 on 19 August 2001, and peaked at number 16 the following week.\n\nThe album's first official single, titled \"Overload\", was released on 11 September 2000, in the UK. The song, produced by Cameron McVey, became the Sugababes' first top ten single in the United Kingdom, peaking at number six. The album also spawned three more top 30 singles: \"New Year\", \"Run for Cover\" and \"Soul Sound\", which peaked at number 12, 13 and 30 respectively. \"Run for Cover\" also proved to have relative success across Europe, but did not challenge that of \"Overload\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1854482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854482", "title": "Vehicle registration plates of the Philippines", "text": "Vehicle registration plates of the Philippines\n\nVehicle license plates in the Philippines () are issued and regulated by the Land Transportation Office, a government agency under the Department of Transportation (DOTr).\n\nIn January 2013, the Land Transportation Office ventured on the plate standardization project with modern security features which include holograms and bar codes, and also planned to phase out the old plate format which has been in use since 1981. In the new format, the LTO will issue LLL-DDDD for four-wheel vehicles and LL-DDDDD for motorcycles. The Alphanumeric symbols for private cars will be black on a white background, while those for public utility vehicles (PUVs) would continue on black on yellow with the authorized route also to be indicated. Motorcycle plates would also be black on white, as would those for tricycles used for personal purposes. Tricycles used as PUVs would also continue with the black on yellow scheme. Government plates, meanwhile, would have sport red symbols on a white background, with the name of the agency/office to be indicated. Diplomatic plates would continue carry blue symbols on a white background, while Other Exempt Vehicles (OEV) would have black symbols on a light blue background. The new plate format series and design was originally scheduled for release on September or October 2013. However, it has been delayed several times primarily due to concerns on the release of funds for the license plate project, as well as the increase in purchase of new cars using temporary license plates bearing the conduction sticker number. Eventually, on May 2014, the first batch of new license plates were finally released. By January 2015, vehicle owners are now required to change their old plates into a modern series plate, and pay PhP 450 for a replacement.\n\nIn 2016, the LTO issued \"virtual plates\" as a temporary measure to address the backlog in physical license plates. New vehicles will be issued an identification consisting of alphanumeric combinations, which will make it easier for the LTO to release the permanent license plates once they are available.\n\nFinally, in January 2018, the Supreme Court ordered the release of the license plates long held due to restraining orders saddling the plate modernization program. It is expected that the distribution will commence at full swing by mid-February 2018.\n\nThe current series of Philippine registration plates measure 390 x 140 mm. The characters are stamped on an aluminium plate which is then applied with reflectorized paint. Previously, numerous watermarks of the Land Transportation Office (LTO) logo as well as a small logo of the plate manufacturer were stamped on the plate. This was replaced in 2002 with a reflectorized printed color sticker of the statue to José Rizal. , all plates issued by the LTO are produced by a sole, privately funded manufacturer in Manila.\n\nThere also was a slogan on the bottom of the license plate usually reflects the campaign goals of the incumbent President. The practice began under President Fidel V. Ramos' \"Philippines 2000\" campaign in 1995. Until 2003, plates also bore the word \"\"Pilipinas\"\" at the bottom; it was replaced with the Arroyo government's slogan \"\"Matatag Na Republika\"\" (\"Strong Republic\") which was still used instead of the \"\"Daang Matuwid\"\" (\"Straight Path\") slogan even when Benigno Aquino III became President in 2010. The introduction of the 2014 design plate replaced the presidential slogan with region names, and with the introduction of its 2016 revision, the slogan feature has been removed.\n\n\nThere were numerous typefaces for Philippine registration plates. The current typeface used for Philippine registration plates was first implemented in 1981. It is loosely based on the Australian license plate system. There have been slight variations on the font design until February 2018 when all plates switched to FE-Schrift, which has been used since at least 2010 for personalized plates.\n\nThese plates are green D or DD plates reserved for the top government officials of the Republic of the Philippines.\n\nRed characters on a white background (or with the Rizal monument starting 2003) and starts with the letter \"S\" so it goes by the format SLL-DDD (1981 series) or SLL-DDDD (2014 series).\n\nFor 2018 series it uses white plate since red plate are not yet in production.\n\nBlue characters on a white background plates reserved for diplomats, embassy and consulate officials, country ambassadors and some expatriates such as scientists and researchers at the International Rice Research Institute (IRRI), in the form of DDDD or DDDDD.\nAmbassadors' plates are always \"1000\" and used to have the country they represent at the bottom of the plate (i.e., not present anymore). These plates have a small decal on the bottom left part with a \"CM\".\n\n1001 – 9999: a small decal on the bottom left part, displayed as \"DC\" for \"diplomatic corps\"<br>\n10000 – 99999: embassy vehicles – a small decal on the bottom left part displayed as \"OEV\" for \"other exempt vehicle\"\n\nYellow plates (black characters on a yellow background) are in the form LLL DDD (1981 series) and usually begin with either the letter \"N\" or \"P\" or \"T\" or \"U\" in NCR that was used in 1981 series plates. They always have either \"V\", \"W\", \"X\"(except U) \"Y\" or \"Z\" (Trailer) in the middle of the letter block. Older license plates starting with \"N\" and \"P\" may have other letters in the middle of the block, although the \"V\", \"W\", \"X\", \"Y\", \"Z\" (Trailer) letters are also present (from 1981 NVA-101 to early 1995 NYZ-999).\n\nFor 2014 series, (LLL DDDD) beside the region of registration, the type of PUV is also indicated (e.g. NCR TAXI, R4A JEEPNEY, R8 PROV BUS).\n\nFor 2018 series, (LLL DDDD) currently uses private plates since yellow plates aren't yet released during production.\n\nFor private vehicles, the plate contains green-colored symbols on a white background (or reverse – white symbols on green background, used from 1989 to 1995) with the number format as \"LLL-DDD (1981 series). In 2009, it uses increment letters either I, O or Q in the middle, right or both (except first letter) for NCR.\n\nFor 2014 series the number format as LLL-DDDD it also has a bar code and LTO hot stamp on the 7 digit character plate.\nFor 2018 series the number format are the same as 2014 series. It uses FE Shrift font to avoid modify the letters it also comes with LTO watermark and QR code. For vehicles registered from July 2016 - December 2017 using temporary plate ACB-AEE will updated to latest designations For example ACD-1234 registered in NCR will updated to NCD-1234. \n\nYellow, green or white plates that mostly have either \"U\" (Private) or \"Z\" (For Hire) in the middle of the letter block, e.g. CUU-482, NZB-263, BUA-5301.\n\nFor electric vehicles, orange plates are used (white symbols on orange background).\n\nGreen characters (1981 series) or black characters (2014 series) on a white background with the letters \"MC\" stamped on the upper left-hand corner next to the registration sticker. Usually in the format LL-DDDD (e.g. NK 9081) or LL-DDDDD (e.g. NA 25953), but with the rise in the number of motorcycles on the road, the DDDD-LL (e.g. 9081 NK) format has also come into use.\n\nYellow characters on a black background. Same format as in private motorcycles. This plate is very rarely seen.\n\nDiplomatic motorcycles use the all-number plates (same for 4 wheels and up) instead of the aforementioned pattern for private, public utility and government ones, but with the same physical dimensions and the \"MC\" stamp. They are 1000-0000, and 100-001 (100-000 For ambassadors)\n\nGreen characters on a white background with the letters \"MC\" stamped on the upper left-hand corner next to the registration sticker. This is also rare because when a tricycle is purchased, its immediate use is to be a public transport vehicle and will be registered with black on yellow plates.\n\nBlack characters on a yellow background with the letters \"TC\" stamped on the upper right-hand corner next to the registration sticker.\n\nVehicles accredited by the Department of Tourism (usually tour buses and airport taxis) are issued plates that look similar to those of private vehicles, but have yellow highlights mixed with the green color and share the same first letter of current public utility vehicle plates. These vehicles must also have special stickers placed on the rear windows indicating that they are DOT-accredited.\n\nFor 2014 to 2016 series, it now uses yellow plate, same as the PUV and the word TOURIST is indicated (e.g. NCR TOURIST).\n\n\nApril 13, 2014 to June 30, 2016, the plate number letters are all the same throughout the Philippines in a series and combination, since the region where it is registered is now displayed in the new license plates at the bottom part.\n\n\nIn August 2017, the Department of Transportation selected the winning bidder under the government's \"Moving Forward Program\" to produce the backlog of 3.4 million plates spanning from July 2016 to December 2017. The machines were delivered to LTO in February 2018 and was installed in their new plate making facility. The new license plates were released in July 2018 throughout the country. Under this new plate series, the first letter of the license plate will determine where the vehicle is registered. This is the same designation that was implemented during the 1981 series. Subsequently, all virtual plates that were issued from July 2016 to December 2017 using the previous design (e.g. Virtual plate ABV 1001-AEE 9999) will be updated to the latest alphabetical designation (e.g. ACD 1234, registered under NCR, will be updated to NCD 1234, the designation for vehicles registered in NCR).\n\n\nThe MV file number has 15 digits based on where the initial registration of the vehicle was carried out. eg. (MV File # 1301-00000012345 registered in NCR, MV File # 1401-00000012345 registered in CAR).\n\nPrivate (plate series with approximate year issued):\nI, O and Q are previously not used to avoid confusion with the numbers \"1\" & \"0\". But with the exhaustion of the \"Z\" series in 2009, they were used by reverting to the old \"N\" series. A new serial scheme was implemented using these characters, instead of the third letter coming into series (e.g. after ZAA-999 has been reached, ZAB-101) the middle letter is the one being replaced (e.g. after NAI-999 series has been exhausted, NBI-101 will follow.) These include combinations for public utility vehicles (middle letters V, W, X, and Y) and trailers (middle letters U and Z), which were used for private vehicles instead. After all the possible combinations with I, O and Q as the third letter for the same starting letter have been used, I, O and Q are used as middle letters and the third letter is being replaced (e.g. After NIA-999 has been used, NIB-101 will follow), if the reverted letter is exhausted (e.g. After PQZ-999 has been used, TAI-101 will follow). During the span of 2013, some letter combinations (e.g. FJB-101) were also used in Metro Manila.\n\n<br>\ne.g. 1981 series: NFD-838, PAL-901, PGU-909, TAX-798, TFN-697, UTH-468, WBU-389, WSD-820, XAF-789, XDG-289, XHK-537, XJA-993, XKW-594, XLA-475, XMS-907, XSC-769, ZCZ-679, NUI-205, NJO-542, NBQ-217, NIA-101, NOR-686, NQZ-544, PXI-296, PSO-338, PQQ-332, PIK-342, POC-902, PQL-497, TEI-517, TZO-390, TSQ-486, TIT-120, TOL-979, TQH-924, UMI-615, UFO-392, UHQ-571, UIP-207, UOG-874, UQF-281, WAI-365, WOO-911, WEQ-451, WIC-143, WOP-723, WQL-856\n\n2014 series: AAA-5500, AAI-8557, AJA-8068, APA-9631, ABG-9416, ABS-1953\n\n2018 series: NAA-1234, NBA-2020, NCU-7018, NDG-9606, NEB-3003, NFT-2047, NGE-1365, NHG-2480, NIC-4567, NJB-3589\n\nPrivate (plate series with approximate year issued):\n\n\n\n\nNational Capital Region And Cebu:\n<nowiki>*</nowiki>Plate numbers registered from 2016 onwards currently uses private plates since yellow plates aren't yet released during production.\n\nProvincial:\n<nowiki>*</nowiki>Plate numbers registered from 2016 onwards currently uses private plates since yellow plates aren't yet released during production.\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki>Plate numbers registered from 2016 onwards currently uses private plates since red plates aren't yet in production.\n\nNote: From SLJ-101 (including increments of \"I\", \"O\" and \"Q\") onwards for government plate numbers were skipped.\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki>Plate numbers with increments of \"I\", \"O\", and \"Q\" series were commonly used for private vehicles from 2009 to 2014.\n\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki>Plate numbers registered from 2016 onwards currently uses 6-Numbered plates while trailer plates are not yet in production.\n\n\n\n\n\n1981 series\ne.g. SG-8567\ne.g. \"XA-1001\", \"QA-7587\"\ne.g. \"IA-3339\", \"OA-6210\"\ne.g. 1981: NVA-101, 2014: VVD-999\ne.g. KL-0342\ne.g. SR-6789, 1001-SA\ne.g. ZZI-101, ZZO-890, ZZQ-476\ne.g. SUA-101, SUB-698, SUC-346, SUD-697\n\nA motorist who would like to have personalized plates can have any letter combination he fancies upon three conditions:\n\nA project of the Land Transportation Office since 2004, these plates are in the form of LLL DD or LLL DDD but not in the order of normal plates shown on the table and it is in the 2003 font series for the \"Matatag na Republika\" (Strong Republic) plates (e.g. GOD-333, QQQ-47).\n\n"}
{"id": "1854483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854483", "title": "Haifa Bay central bus station", "text": "Haifa Bay central bus station\n\nHaifa Bay central bus station (, \"Merkazit HaMifratz\"), known also as HaMifratz central bus station is the main bus station of the Haifa Bay (\"Mifratz Haifa\") district. It is co-located with HaMifrats Central railway station and is adjacent to Lev HaMifratz Mall. It opened in 2002.\n\nHaMifratz central bus station serves local Egged bus lines within the city of Haifa, the Metronit, and suburban lines. Egged, Nateev Express and Superbus all operate intercity bus routes. All bus routes from the north and the Galilee which formerly terminated at the old Bat Galim central bus station now terminate at HaMifratz station.\n\nThe station is part of a large public transport complex at Lev Hamifratz which serves bus and rail passengers, while a terminal for an aerial tramway connecting the station with the Technion University on Mount Carmel is being built at the site as of 2019.\n\nRebuilding of the station started in mid 2015, finished in October 2019.\n\nThe bus routes originating or passing at HaMifratz bus station as of April 2020 are listed below.\n\nHaifa Metropolitan Transport \nDan North\nEgged\nNativ Express (Hebrew only)\n"}
{"id": "1854492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854492", "title": "Arbequina", "text": "Arbequina\n\nArbequina is a cultivar of olives. The fruit is highly aromatic, small, symmetrical and dark brown, with a rounded apex and a broad peduncular cavity. In Europe, it is mostly grown in Catalonia, Spain, but it is also grown in Aragon and Andalusia, as well as California, Argentina, Chile, and Australia. It has recently become one of the dominant olive cultivars in the world, largely under highly intensive, \"super high-density\" plantation.\n\nThe name comes from the village of Arbeca in the \"comarca\" of the Les Garrigues, where it was first introduced to Europe from the Ottoman Empire in the seventeenth century by the Duke of Medinaceli becoming one of the most widely planted cultivars in the world.\n\n\"Arbequina\" is grown in Albania, Algeria, \"Argentina\", \"Australia\": Areas of Adelaide, Buaraba, Loxton, New South Wales, Queensland, South Australia, and Western Australia, Bolivia, Brazil: (Paranà), \"Chile\": Areas of Arica, Huasco, and Limari, Egypt, Iran (Gilan), Israel, Libya, Peru (Arequipa), Morocco, France: Areas of Alpes-Maritimes and Hérault, Mexico: Areas of Aguascalientes, Caborca, and Sonora, Peru: Areas of Arequipa and Moquegua Saudi Arabia, \"Spain\": Areas of Albacete, Almeria, Andalucía, Aragón, Avila, Barcelona, Cataluña, Córdoba, Cuenca, Gerona, Granada, Guadalajara, Huesca, Lérida, Madrid, Sevilla, Tarragona, Teruel, and Zaragoza, South Africa (Western Cape), Turkey, the \"United States\" (Winter Garden Region, Texas), and Uruguayana, Uruguay.\n\nArbequina is also known as: \"21 kilo\" in Córdoba, Cuyo, and Mendoza, \"Alberchino\" in areas of Granada and Guadalajara, \"Arbequi\" in Lérida, \"Arbequin\" in Albacete, Almeria, Avila, Barcelona, Girona (old Gerona province), Guadalajara, Huesca, Lérida, Logroño, Tarragona, Teruel and \"Mendoza\" in Argentina, \"Arbequina Catalana\" in some areas of Córdoba, \"Arlequin\" in Almería, \"Blanca\" in Huesca, \"Blanca De Espãna\" in some areas of Argentina, \"Erbequina\" in Barcelona, \"Herbequin\" or \"Herbequino\" in areas of Lérida, K 18 in Al-Jouf, \"Manglot (Del)\" in some areas of Albacete and Valencia, \"Oliva de Arbela\" in areas of Lérida and Tarragona, and \"Oliva de Borjas Blancas\" in areas of Lérida.\n\nArbequina trees are adaptable to different conditions of climate and soil, although it does best in alkaline soils; it thrives in long, hot, dry summers, but is frost-hardy and pest-resistant. Its relatively small cup, allows it to be cultivated under more intense, high-density conditions than other plantation olives The variety is very productive and enters early into production (from the first half of November). The fruit does not ripen simultaneously, and has an average resistance to detachment. Unlike most varieties, Arbequina has a high germination percentage, making it a common seedling tree for use as a rootstock. 78% of olive oil acres in California are planted on Arbequina rootstock.\n\nAlthough sold as a table olive as well, Arbequina olives have one of the highest concentrations of oil, and are therefore mostly used for olive oil production. Harvesting is easy since the trees are typically low to the ground and allow for easy hand picking. Oils made from Arbequina are generally buttery, fruity, and very mild in flavor, being low in polyphenols. The combination of low polyphenol levels and high levels of polyunsaturated fat as compared with other olive cultivars means that it has relatively low stability and short shelf-life.\n\nHybridization using the Arbequina and Picual (Rallo et al 2008) resulted in the newer \"Chiquitota\" variety.\n\n"}
{"id": "1854499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854499", "title": "Lilly Téllez", "text": "Lilly Téllez\n\nLilly Téllez (born 14 November 1967) is a senator-elect to the LXIV Legislature of the Mexican Congress from the state of Sonora. She previously worked as a journalist for television broadcaster TV Azteca.\n\nTéllez was born in Hermosillo but spent her childhood in Ensenada, Baja California. From 1984 to 1994, she worked at Canal 6 in Hermosillo, where she received the State Journalism Award in 1992. In 1994, she was hired to host the morning edition of TV Azteca's main news program, \"Hechos\", and to be an investigative journalist. In 1999, she became a full-time investigative journalist.\n\nOn June 22, 2000, her car was shot by a group of unknown men, but she was unharmed. She attributed this attack to a recent airing of an investigation related to the Arellano Félix family of drug dealers; the case was closed with no suspects found. In 2005, she began a new investigative program for Azteca Trece, \"Mitos y Hechos\" (Myths and Facts), broadcast twice a month. The program came to an end when TV Azteca, evidently ceding to government pressure, did not air the third part of a report on the sale of Grupo Financiero Banamex to Citigroup and the controversy surrounding the winding down of the Fobaproa bank contingency fund.\n\nIn 2007, Téllez received the Premio Antena award from the National Chamber of the Radio and Television Industry (CIRT) for her broadcasting career.\nIn 2010, she debuted the program \"Diagnóstico reservado\" (Diagnosis Reserved) on Proyecto 40.\nTéllez later left TV Azteca to write columns and make video content for the digital news site SDP Noticias.\n\nIn November 2017, Andrés Manuel López Obrador contacted Téllez and offered to run her as a Senate candidate from his National Regeneration Movement (Morena) party from the state of Sonora. Two months later, Téllez announced in an interview with Ciro Gómez Leyva on Radio Fórmula that she would take up the offer, though she would not become a Morena party member. She would run alongside Alfonso Durazo Montaño, a longtime politician and public official in the state, as the Juntos Haremos Historia coalition candidates for Senate from Sonora. The ticket obtained 200,000 more votes than the PRI ticket, putting it in first place and securing seats for Téllez and Durazo in the Senate.\n\nIn August 2018, Téllez announced she would file an injunction against several constitutional reforms approved in the Sonora state government that reduce the power of the state legislature. Opposition to these reforms, which Téllez described as a \"dictatorial smackdown by Governor Claudia Pavlovich Arellano\", has been particularly vociferous within Morena, as the party won 20 of the 21 district seats in the Sonoran state legislature in the 2018 midterm elections.\n\nOn December 16, 2019, the \"Comisión de Justicia\" (Justice Commission) of Morena demanded the expulsion of Lilly Téllez from her position as a member of the party's Senate caucus, primarily due to her opposition to the legalization of abortion.\n\nTéllez was married in 2003 to businessman Guillermo Calderón Villalobos in Mexico City.\n\n"}
{"id": "1854502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854502", "title": "The War with the Fnools", "text": "The War with the Fnools\n\n\"The War with the Fnools\" is a science fiction short story by American writer Philip K. Dick. It was first published in \"Galaxy\" magazine in 1969.\n\nThe Fnools are invaders who appear to be two-foot-tall human beings. They take on the guise of Volkswagen mechanics, ethnic circus performers, and similar roles, unaware that they stand out for being unusually short. Then a Fnool discovers that if one of their kind partakes in an activity associated with \"vice\" (initially tobacco and alcohol), all Fnools gain two feet in height. When they do these the Fnools become indistinguishable from human beings, albeit temporarily, before one engages in sex and they all become inhumanly tall.\n\nDick said of the story:\n"}
{"id": "1854505", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854505", "title": "Boilermaker", "text": "Boilermaker\n\nA boilermaker is a tradesperson who fabricates steel, iron, or copper into boilers and other large containers intended to hold hot gas or liquid, as well as maintains and repairs boilers and boiler systems.\n\nAlthough the name originated from craftsmen who made boilers, boilermakers in fact assemble, maintain, and repair other large vessels and closed vats.\n\nThe boilermaker trade evolved from industrial blacksmithing; in the early nineteenth century, a boilermaker was called a \"boilersmith\". The involvement of boilermakers in the shipbuilding and engineering industries came about because of the changeover from wood to iron as a construction material. It was often easier, and less expensive, to hire a boilermaker who was already in the shipyard--fabricating iron boilers for wooden steamships--to build a ship. This overlap of skills could extend to anything large and made of iron--or later, steel. In the UK, this effective monopoly over an important skill of the industrial revolution led to boilermakers being labeled 'the labour aristocracy\" by historians.\n\nBoilermaking, welding, and fitting tubes can be a full-time requirement at power plants. Stress fractures, leaks, and corrosion demand continual repair or replacement resulting from operation at very high steam pressures. Other boilermakers might work seasonally or on an individual project such as re-fitting a boiler in a seagoing vessel or remodeling a steam plant.\n\nBoiler repair can be a high-value, high-cost service since even the smallest steam boilers for dry cleaners and tailors can cost upwards of $20,000 to replace.\n\nIn the United States, many boilermakers are employed in repairing, repiping, and re-tubing commercial steam and hot water boilers used for heating and domestic hot water in commercial buildings and multi-family dwellings. Sometimes these boilers are referred to as pressure vessels. Generally, a pressure vessel is a storage tank or vessel that has been designed to operate at pressures above .\n\nThe two main responsibilities of boilermakers are the use of oxy-acetylene gas torch sets to cut or gouge steel plate and tubes, followed by gas tungsten arc welding (GTAW), shielded metal arc welding (SMAW), or gas metal arc welding (GMAW) to attach and mend the cut sections of tubes and steel plates.\n\nBoilermakers usually go through a formal apprenticeship which includes about four years of paid on-the-job training combined with classroom instruction. Unions and many employers offer these apprenticeships. To become an apprentice, one must be at least 18 years old and have a high school diploma or GED. Attending a trade or technical school combined with employer-provided training can accelerate the learning curve.\n\nBoiler repair in the United States is governed by the National Board of Boiler and Pressure Vessel Inspectors and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME) under a classification called R Stamp Welding. In order to perform R Stamp welds and repairs, boilermakers are tested and certified in the quality of their weld joints through a rigorous testing procedure. R stamps are issued to companies that have existing ASME code stamps issued for construction and whose quality control system covers repairs or follow the guidelines set up by ASME to obtain an R stamp. Welders identify their welds by stamping their identifying welder number adjacent to their completed weld with a set of steel stencils.\n\nWelding, fitting, and installing the tubes and accessories that attach to the boiler can also be performed by boilermakers, and is governed by the same organizations as R Stamp Welding. This certification is called Power Piping and is governed by ASME Code section B31.1.\n\nThe International Brotherhood of Boilermakers, Iron Ship Builders, Blacksmiths, Forgers and Helpers is a labor union for boilermakers in Canada and the United States.\n\nIn the UK, boilermakers traditionally joined the Boilermakers Society which merged with the General and Municipal Workers' Union (GMWU), then an unskilled union, to form the modern GMB which still maintains a \"craft section\" largely for boilermakers.\n\n"}
{"id": "1854511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854511", "title": "Simplified Message Desk Interface", "text": "Simplified Message Desk Interface\n\nSimplified Message Desk Interface (SMDI) is a protocol that defines the interface between a voice mail system and a phone system such as a PBX or public telephone switch. It was developed by Bell Labs. It is used to provide the voice mail system the information it needs to process the call. Each time a call is sent to the voice mail system, a message is sent using SMDI over a serial interface that identifies the line, the type of call, and the calling/called party numbers. The SMDI protocol also specifies a method for turning the message-waiting indicator (MWI) on and off on individual telephones.\n\nSome of the more recent voicemail systems transmit the SMDI protocol over a network TCP session rather than a serial interface.\n\nThe current requirements are provided in Telcordia Technologies Generic Requirements document GR-283-CORE (legacy document TR-NWT-000283).\nAccording to Telcordia GR-283-CORE, the Simplified Message Desk Interface \n(SMDI) is an analog interface between the local stored program controlled switching system (SPCS) and a message storage and retrieval (MSR) system. Calls are distributed to the call answering points with normal call processing or using multiline hunt group (MLHG) features. One or more MLHGs may be associated with the same set of SMDI data links. An identification scheme is assigned in the SPCS to identify each MLHG uniquely and each line in the MLHG, for which call information (e.g., calling number) is provided over the SMDI data link. This identification information is provided to the MSR system, with the call information, to help the MSR system correlate the call information with a call terminating on a particular line.\n\nMessage Format\n\n<CR><LF>MDXXXLLLLTYYYYYYY<0x20>ZZZZZZZ<0x20><CR><LF><^Y>\n\n<CR> carriage return\n\n<LF> line feed\n\nMDXXX Message desk. This is a 3 digit field (usually 001)\n\nLLLL Logical terminal number (0001 - 4096)\n\nT Reason code (D for direct call, A for all calls forwarded, B for busy forwarding, U for unknown)\n\n<0x20> space\n\nYYYYYYY called party number (may be not present, such as for direct calls)\n\nZZZZZZZ calling party number (CPN) (may be not present if unavailable)\n\n<CR> carriage return\n\n<LF> line feed\n\n<^Y> end marker, Ctrl-Y, ASCII \"EM\"\n\nEach of the numbers is a common fixed length for each link, such as 5 (extensions), 7 (US PSTN numbers without area code), or 10 (US PSTN numbers) digits, zero padded on the left where necessary, and terminated with <0x20>.\n\nA typical use of the called party number is to select which voicemail greeting to play for the call.\n\nMWI Format\n\nOP:MWI<0x20>XXXX!<EOT>\n\nOP Operate message-waiting indicator (turn on)\n\n<0x20> space\n\nXXXX extension number\n\n<EOT> end-of-transmission character\n\nRMV:MWI<0x20>XXXX!<EOT>\n\nRMV remove message-waiting indicator (turn off)\n\n<0x20> space\n\nXXXX extension number\n\n<EOT> End of Transmission\n\nExample\n\nThis is an example of a direct call from extension 3500. It was presented to the voice messaging system on LTN 0007 (port 7). This would be someone calling from their extension to pick up their voicemail, and thus would likely ask for signon credentials, such as a PIN.\n\n<CR><LF>MD0010007D<0x20>3500<0x20><CR><LF><^Y>\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1854514", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854514", "title": "Bat Galim", "text": "Bat Galim\n\nBat Galim (, \"lit.\" Daughter of the Waves) is a neighborhood of Haifa, Israel, located at the foot of Mt. Carmel on the Mediterranean coast. Bat Galim is known for its promenade and sandy beaches. The neighborhood spans from Rambam hospital in the North to the Haifa Cable Cars in the South, and from the Mediterranean Sea's shore line in the West to Bat Galim's train station on the East. \n\nBat Galim was the first point of Jewish settlement in modern Haifa. The neighborhood was established in the 1920s as a garden suburb of private homes designed by the Bauhaus architect Richard Kaufmann. During the British Mandate, Bat Galim was Haifa's entertainment center. The \"Casino,\" a landmark building on the Bat Galim promenade, housed a cafe patronized by British officers, although it was never used for gambling. It was also the center of water sports in the country, and a swimming pool was built there.\n\nRambam Medical Center, the Technion's Faculty of Medicine and the Rappaport Family Institute for Research in the Medical Sciences are situated in the north of Bat Galim, near the shore. Bat Galim and nearby neighborhoods are served by the Haifa Bat Galim Railway Station. Bat Galim is the lower station of the Haifa Cable Car, which runs up and down the Carmel from Stella Maris.\n\nBat Galim is a mixed neighborhood consisting of families from many different nationalities and socio-economic backgrounds including Jewish families who lived there prior to WWII, hence there's a large elderly presence, many immigrants from the former Soviet Union and Christian and Muslim minorities. \nIn the last several years, Bat Galim has seen an inception of medical students, both native and international, who come to study and intern at the Rambam hospital. \nThe neighborhood also has an eclectic community with many self proclaimed artists and artisans who started an annual tradition where they open their homes to the public for a few days in September to showcase and sell their crafts which include hand-made pottery, glass art, jewelry, photographs and paintings of the neighborhood. This annual event attracts people from all over the country and also features live music, entertainment for the kids, lectures, architectural tours of the city and a speech by the Mayor of Haifa.\n\nBat Galim is a popular location for surfers, including wave, wind and kite surfing, year round, with many international competitions taking place there. Among the surfers, there are many swimmers, with three supervised beaches along the shore including the popular \"Lagoona\" beach specifically for swimmers and the \"Backdoor\" beach for wave surfers. More recently, many new SUP, stand up paddle board enthusiasts have joined in the neighborhood's water sports.\n"}
{"id": "1854526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854526", "title": "George Massey Tunnel", "text": "George Massey Tunnel\n\nThe George Massey Tunnel (often referred to as the Massey Tunnel) is a highway traffic tunnel in the Metro Vancouver region of southwestern British Columbia. It is located approximately south of the city centre of Vancouver, British Columbia, and approximately north of the Canada–United States border at Blaine, Washington.\n\nConstruction, costing approximately $16.6 million in 1959 ($140 million in 2017), began on the tunnel in March 1957, and it was opened to traffic on May 23, 1959 as the Deas Island Tunnel. Queen Elizabeth II attended the official opening ceremony of the tunnel on July 15, 1959. It carries a four-lane divided highway under the south arm of the Fraser River estuary, joining the City of Richmond to the north with the City of Delta to the south. It is the only road tunnel below sea level in Canada, making its roadway the lowest road surface in Canada. The Massey Tunnel was the first to use immersed tube technology in North America.\n\nThe tunnel forms part of Highway 99. It is named for Nehamiah \"George\" Massey, a former Member of the Legislative Assembly of British Columbia. He represented Delta between 1956 and 1960, and was a long-time advocate of a permanent crossing to replace the Ladner Ferry that crossed the south arm of the Fraser River. The tunnel was renamed the George Massey Tunnel in 1967, three years after Massey died. It is still sometimes referred to by its previous name, the Deas Island Tunnel. Dangerous goods are not allowed to pass through the tunnel.\n\nWinter ice floes and spring flooding, which made ferry navigation hazardous, prompted the demand for a bridge. In 1927, the BC legislature authorized the Fraser River Bridge Company to build a toll bridge linking Ladner to Lulu Island. In 1931, despite opposition that wanted the crossing located at New Westminster, the province fixed the site of the proposed crossing at or near Deas Island. The Municipality of Richmond, engaging the Ladner Bridge Company, submitted to government plans for the $2,600,000 toll bridge. That year, the federal government authorized construction of connecting highways, financing was in place, and preliminary construction work commenced. Ongoing opposition from the New Westminster municipality, and a change in the provincial government in 1933, changed the proposed location in 1934 to become the Pattullo Bridge at New Westminster.\n\nThe tunnel is a single tube that is subdivided with a concrete wall, each side containing two traffic lanes. The typical traffic flow has two northbound lanes in the east tube and two southbound lanes in the west tube. In 1981 a counterflow system was introduced to meet increasing traffic demand in the tunnel.\n\nAt peak rush traffic periods, a reversible lane system is used, with a series of swing gates deployed that direct traffic in one direction to a single lane, while increasing the other direction to three lanes. Morning rush has three lanes northbound (inbound to Vancouver) and evening rush has three southbound lanes (outbound from Vancouver).\n\nThe tunnel is long and made up of six precast concrete sections (length: ; height: ; width: ). The sections were floated into position by barge and then sunk into a shallow trench that had been dug into the loose sand and silt of the river bed. The trench and tunnel sections were then covered over with a protective layer of rock— stones filled out on each side, plus a bed of stones on top. A structure located at each end of the tunnel houses the main ventilation and pumping equipment. Concrete retaining walls make up the approaches, which extend out about from the ventilation buildings. At its lowest point the roadway is about below sea level, making it the lowest section of roadway in Canada. The Fraser River flows into the Strait of Georgia about downstream from the tunnel.\n\nDue to the tunnel being designed and constructed in the 1950s, very little consideration was given to seismic factors. The river bed is a thick layer of sediment on top of bedrock. This sedimentary layer may liquefy during a major earthquake, leaving the tunnel with nothing to rest on, and thus vulnerable to total collapse. In recent years, as the awareness of the effect of serious seismic activity developed, an engineering assessment and subsequent retrofit project was initiated to increase the survivability of the tunnel in the event of a significant earthquake. This retrofit project started in the fall of 2004 and had been completed by the spring of 2006.\n\nIn the interest of providing active protection for commuters from the danger earthquakes pose to the tunnel, an earthquake early warning system called Shakealarm was installed and commissioned in 2009. This was the first application of a commercialized earthquake early warning system (EEWS) to protect critical infrastructure in North America. Capable of detecting earthquakes with seconds to minutes of warning time the installation on George Massey Tunnel is designed to close the gates at either end of the tunnel so that no one can enter if a dangerous quake is inbound, and those already inside can exit as normal before shaking begins.\n\nThe tunnel was constructed for the British Columbia Toll Highways and Bridge Authority, and is now administered by the British Columbia Ministry of Transportation. It has not had a toll on it since the 1960s, when tolls were removed from all of the bridges and tunnels in the Lower Mainland. The initial toll was 25 cents; in 1964, George Massey became the last person to pay the toll, which was then 1 dollar.\n\nThe tunnel is illegal for cyclists or pedestrians to traverse. A limited fare-free shuttle service is available year-round, during certain hours, and can carry tandems. Cyclists must wait at prescribed pickup points, but the van will make more than one trip if there are more than seven bicycles. Translink also provides year-round regular bus service through the tunnel with standard two-bike carrying racks. However, the lack of sufficient rack space translates to long waits for cyclists during peak hours. Cycling advocates have long advocated for improvement to this facility, as it is a major choke point limiting Vancouver-to-Tsawwassen Ferry bicycle traffic.\n\nThe tunnel has a posted height limit of in both directions. The replacement bridge, which was to be constructed starting in 2017, would have likely eliminated the current height restrictions for over-height vehicles in the tunnel.\n\nOn February 16, 2006, it was reported that the provincial government had plans to expand the tunnel's capacity, from four lanes to six, dubbed the \"H99\" project. On September 28, 2012, Premier Christy Clark announced plans to replace the aging tunnel within 10 years, addressing the congestion and safety issues currently plaguing the structure. On November 21, 2012, it was announced that the Ministry of Transportation and Infrastructure is leading a multi-stage planning initiative, including seeking public input on replacement options for the tunnel to determine a number of options for its replacement.\n\nOn September 20, 2013, Premier Clark announced that construction on a new bridge to replace the tunnel will begin in 2017. On December 16, 2015, British Columbia Transportation Minister Todd Stone announced detailed plans to spend $3.5 billion on a bridge and interchange improvements to replace the tunnel. In July 2016 the BC Environmental Assessment Office (EAO) started an environmental assessment of the project and on February 9, 2017 the replacement received environment approval from the B.C. Ministry of Environment. Preliminary work went out for tender in January 2017 to start the process of improving ground conditions for the future widening of the project area.\n\nThe Metro Vancouver mayors spoke out against the replacement plan in June 2016, marking \"the first time the mayors, who make up the Metro Vancouver Board, have spoken out collectively against the $3.5-billion crossing.\" The mayors sent a letter to the B.C. government and the federal Minister of Environment and Climate Change, Catherine McKenna, to get the federal government to do an environmental review of the project. In February 2017, the federal government denied the request of the mayors for a federal review. The official groundbreaking for the project took place on April 5, 2017 and was met with protesters.\n\nWith the election of a new provincial government in 2017, the NDP Premier John Horgan scrapped the project in favour of a solution with more research and consultation with the Metro Vancouver mayors. On October 2, 2019 the Metro Vancouver mayors recommended a new 8-lane tunnel as the replacement of the Massey Tunnel.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1854529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854529", "title": "Kami, Hyōgo (Mikata)", "text": "Kami, Hyōgo (Mikata)\n\nThe town was formed on April 1, 2005 from the merger of the former town of Kasumi, from Kinosaki District, and the towns of Mikata and Muraoka, both from Mikata District.\n\nAs of May 1, 2017, the town has an estimated population of 18,396. The total area is 369.08 km².\n\nKami lies entirely within the central part of San'in Kaigan Geopark.\n\nKami Town consists of 3 wards; Kasumi (香住), Muraoka (村岡), and Ojiro (小代).\n\nOjiro is designated as one of the Most Beautiful Villages in Japan, and is the birthplace of Tajiri-go, a Tajima Cattle who is the ancestor of more than 99.9% of Japanese Black wagyu.\n\nThis town is also the location of the Amarube Bridge, a famous railroad trestle bridge, and of the Tajima Plateau Botanical Gardens.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1854538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854538", "title": "What'll We Do with Ragland Park?", "text": "What'll We Do with Ragland Park?\n\n\"What'll We Do With Ragland Park?\" is a science fiction short story by American writer Philip K. Dick. It was first published in \"Amazing Stories\" magazine in 1963.\n\nThe story is a sequel to \"Stand-By\", a variation on the classic theme of the prophecy that always comes true. The original manuscript title was \"No Ordinary Guy\".\n"}
{"id": "1854562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854562", "title": "Sanas Cormaic", "text": "Sanas Cormaic\n\nSanas Cormaic (or \"Sanas Chormaic\", Irish for \"Cormac's narrative\"), also known as Cormac's Glossary, is an early Irish glossary containing etymologies and explanations of over 1,400 Irish words, many of which are difficult or outdated. The shortest and earliest version of the work is ascribed to Cormac mac Cuilennáin (d. 908), king-bishop of Munster. It is an encyclopedic dictionary containing simple synonymous explanations in Irish or Latin of Irish words. In some cases, he attempts to give the etymology of the words, and in others he concentrates on an encyclopedic entry. It is held to be the earliest linguistic dictionary in any of the non-classical languages of Europe. Many of its entries are still frequently cited in Irish and Celtic scholarship.\n\nThe glossary survives, in part or whole, in at least six manuscripts. The work may have been included in the \"Saltair Chaisil\" (\"Psalter of Cashel\"), a now-lost manuscript compilation that is thought to have contained various genealogical and etiological lore relating to Munster. The versions of \"Sanas Cormaic\" divide into two groups: the earliest and shortest version represented by Leabhar Breac and the fragment in MS Laud 610, and a longer one represented by the Yellow Book of Lecan, which underwent some expansion in the hands of later redactors.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1854564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854564", "title": "Alpines", "text": "Alpines\n\nAlpines is a British duo based in Kingston upon Thames in South London, made up of Bob Matthews (guitar and production) and Catherine Pockson (pianist, singer and songwriter). Since forming in 2010, the band has toured and supported The Naked and Famous, Emeli Sandé and Florence and the Machine at the Alexandra Palace on 10 March 2012. Alpines released their debut album, \"Oasis\" on 26 May 2014 and their second album, \"Another River\" on 28 October 2016. Their third album, \"Full Bloom\" is due for release on their own record label Untrue Records, on 16 November 2018.\n\nTheir track \"Drive\" was used by Rankin in a video for fashion designer Hannah Marshall in 2011. In 2011, their track \"Cocoon\" was used during an episode of the US crime series \"\", and \"Fossilised\" was used in another \"CSI\" episode in 2012. Their song \"Empire\" which was released as a video in May 2012 was used by Sky Atlantic for the trailer of the new series of \"Boardwalk Empire\" season 3 Autumn 2012 and by ESPN for US Barclays Center Classic in November 2012.\n\nIn June 2012, \"Empire\" was used as transition audio in fifth episode of the eighth series of the BBC documentary series Coast, entitled \"The Secret Life of Sea Cliffs\".\n\nIn August 2012, their song \"Got Me Wrong\" from their \"Early Hours\" EP was featured in All Saints Autumn/Winter Fashion Collection TV Campaign in which Catherine and Bob also appeared. All Saints have issued Alpines Basement session videos of \"Got Me Wrong\" and \"Chances\". Alpines have continued their association with Rankin whose Hunger TV Company has produced their videos of \"Got Me Wrong\" and \"Chances\" including a studio piano performance of \"Chances\".\n\nOn 18 January 2013, Vogue introduced Alpines release of their single \"Lights\" and a mini film video of \"Lights\" featuring Emily Berrington and Ben Lloyd-Hughes directed by Ryan Hope. In September 2013, Alpines \"Cocoon\" was used in a short film introducing Eudon Choi's fashion collection for River Island Design Forum. In autumn 2014, \"Tidal Wave\" was featured in the TV and film advert \"Sound with Power\" for Mercedes. \"Empire\" was used by Starz Entertainment in the promotion of the Starz Denver Film Festival in November 2013 and for the promotion of original TV and films showing on Starz TV in the USA during the first quarter of 2014. On 5 June 2014, Alpines performed at the Paul Smith Beak Street Store London and in July took part in his photo shoot for Madame Figaro \"Portfolio Jeunes Talents\". In August 2014 Abercrombie & Fitch featured \" No Other Lover\" in their stores. Alpines video of \"Zero\" was premiered on 18 August 2014 in Hunger Magazine \n\nIn September 2015 Alpines produced their cover version of \"I Put a Spell on You\" for the soundtrack of the BBC One trailer for \"the Hunt\" a new nature series narrated by David Attenborough and on 23 October 2015 released the song as a single.\n\nIn 2016, Alpines released their sophomore album \"Another River\" via Metropolis Recordings and AntiFragile Records (North America). \n\nIn 2018, Alpines announced the release of their third album \"Full Bloom\" via their own record label Untrue Records, on 16 November 2018. First single \"Out Of View\" premiered on Complex.\n\nAlpines have written the song \"Tidal Wave\" with Sub Focus. The record, which features Catherine singing, was released by Sub Focus on Mercury on 4 November 2012, and reached No. 12 in the BBC Official Singles Chart on 12 November 2012. \"Tidal Wave\" is also a track on Sub Focus LP \"Torus\" released on 30 September 2013. Sub Focus and Alpines were awarded a silver disc for Tidal Wave by the British Recorded Music Industry (BPI) on 14 February 2014. Catherine also sang on The Maccabees' LP \"Given to the Wild\" on the track \"Unknow\" released 9 January 2012 and sang it with them at the Little Noise Sessions in November 2012 which was shown by Channel 4 on 20 December 2012.\n\nCatherine has co-written and sung \"Fall From Grace\" which is on Maya Jane Coles' debut album \"Comfort\" released on 1 July 2013. Alpines previously collaborated with Maya Jane Coles on their version of \"Why\" released 20 March 2012, and she also produced a remix of Alpines \"Cocoon\" under her Nocturnal Sunshine name which was released by Alpines on 22 August 2011. Alpines co-wrote the song \"The Key\" which Catherine sang on Creep's album \"Echoes\" which was released on 12 November 2013.\n\nAlpines co-wrote the song \"Love me More\" with Chase & Status and Emili Sande which was released on 14 July 2017 as the lead single on Chase & Status\" latest album \"Tribe\" released 18 August 2017.\n\nOn 3 August 2017 Alpines announced they had been chosen for an award by the Momentum Fund sponsored by PRS, PPL,the Arts Council & Spotify.\n\nIn addition to writing and producing their own music, Alpines have issued their own remixes of other artists including Lana Del Rey's \"Blue Jeans\" and Emile Sande's \"Heaven\". In 2011 Alpines also collaborated with other producers on some of their songs including \"Tremors\" with producer trio Dark Sky and \"Gold\" with Craze and Hoax.\n\nOasis\nAlpines wrote and produced all the tracks on their album \"Oasis\" with contributions from MNEK on \"Blind\" and \"Sunset\" and Vince Kidd on \"Zero\". The album artwork photos taken by Cyrus Mahboubian were on display at the opening of the De Re Art Gallery Hollywood from 16 May 2014 with the album sound tracking the exhibition of modern art through the summer. In the summer of 2014 Alpines toured the UK to promote the album.\n\nAnother River\nAlpines released two tracks from the album with accompanying videos on Vevo called \"Completely\" in March 2016 and \"Heaven\" on 3lst August 2016. The album was released by Metropolis Recordings on 28 October 2016. All songs are written by Alpines who announced their first extensive headline tour of UK and European cities On 17 March 2017 they also supported the XX at the Motorport Arena Cardiff. On 18 August 2017 Anti Fragile Records New York announced the release of a DeLuxe version of Another River which included 5 tracks recorded live with their band at Metropolis Studios London.\n\nFull Bloom\nAlpines released their third album \"Full Bloom\" on 16 November 2018, via their own record label Untrue Records.\n\nDrive\n\nCocoon\n\nEmpire\n\nLights\n\nOasis\n\nNo Other Lover\n\nZero\n"}
{"id": "1854570", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854570", "title": "Empeltre", "text": "Empeltre\n\nEmpeltre is a type of medium-sized, black olive originating in Spain. It is used both as a table olive and to produce a high-quality olive oil.\n\n\"Empeltre\" olives are primarily grown in the Spanish regions of Aragon and the Balearic Islands. It is present along the Ebro river basin from the Rioja and Navarra to the province of Castellón and southern Catalonia, (where it is also called \"Terra Alta\" and \"De la Llei\"). There are 80,000 hectares of this variety in Spain. In the Americas there are plantations in Argentina (Mendoza and Córdoba).\n\nThe \"Empeltre\" cultivar is grown in the communities and regions of Huesca, Zaragoza, and Teruel, as well as La Rioja and Navarra and Castellón. It is the main variety in the Denomination of Origin \"Oil of the Bajo Aragón\".\n\nThe term \"empeltre\" is related to the Catalan word \"empelt\" or the Aragonese \"impelte\", which means \"graft\". This is due to the fact that this type of olive tree has a very low rooting capacity, which forces the graft to be derived as a form of reproduction.\n\nThe olive trees of the Empeltre variety have a large wingspan as well as bright dark green leaves and early maturing black olives. They have a long form, asymmetrical and slightly pumped by the back. They have an average volume of 2.7 grams with a pulp / bone ratio of 5:3 and a yield of 18.3%. The empeltre variety provides a yellow-colored smooth oil that is sweet and aromatic with no bitterness. \n\n\"Aceite\" (De), also \"Castellana\", \"Cornicabra\", \"Lechin de Granada\", \"Picual\", \"Aragones\", \"Aragonesa\", \"Aragonesa de Tortosa\", \"Comùn\", \"Farga\", \"Fina\", \"Injerto\", \"Llei\", \"Macho\", \"Mallorquina\" in the Majorca area only., \"Navarro\", \"Negra\", \"Negral\", \"Negral de Calatayud\", \"Negral Fino\", \"Negrala\", \"Negreta\", \"Salseña\", \"Terra Alta\", \"Tordero\", \"Verdiel\", and \"Zaragozana\". Related: \"Callosina\", \"Morisca\", \"Cornezuelo de Jaén\", \"Cornicabra de Baza\", \"Cornicabra de Jerez de los Caballeros\", and \"Cornicabra de Mérida\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1854576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854576", "title": "International Brotherhood of Boilermakers, Iron Ship Builders, Blacksmiths, Forgers and Helpers", "text": "International Brotherhood of Boilermakers, Iron Ship Builders, Blacksmiths, Forgers and Helpers\n\nThe International Brotherhood of Boilermakers, Iron Ship Builders, Blacksmiths, Forgers and Helpers (IBB) is a trade union in the United States and Canada. It is for boilermakers and related occupations, and is affiliated with both the AFL-CIO and CLC.\n\nThe Boilermakers union has a four-year apprenticeship training program before becoming a Journeyman. Boilermakers primarily work in nuclear and fossil power plants. However they also work in shipyards, refineries and chemical plants. The work involves welding, rigging and fabricating. All work done is governed by OSHA (Occupational Safety and Health Administration) or MSHA (Mine Safety and Health Administration).\n\nThe International Brotherhood of Boilermakers, Iron Ship Builders, Blacksmiths, Forgers and Helpers was founded on September 1, 1893. On that day, at a meeting in Chicago, Illinois, representatives from the International Brotherhood of Boiler Makers and Iron Ship Builders, which had been organized on October 1, 1880, and the National Brotherhood of Boiler Makers, which had been formed in Atlanta, Georgia, in May 1888, resolved to consolidate their organizations. It was further agreed that the new organization, to be known as the Brotherhood of Boiler Makers and Iron Ship Builders of America, would make its headquarters in Kansas City, Kansas.\n\nTwo and a half years later, on the ninth of June 1896, the Brotherhood affiliated with the American Federation of Labor.\n\nIn subsequent years, the Brotherhood continued to grow, and in 1902, the Helpers division was formed. Because helpers were barred from sitting in the lodge room with mechanics, this new division had its own local unions and was entirely separate from the Boiler Makers. This would change a decade later when the Helpers Division would be consolidated with the Mechanics Division.\n\nIn March 1906, at a special Convention in Kansas City, the name of the Union was changed to the International Brotherhood of Boilermakers, Iron Ship Builders and Helpers of America in order to incorporate the newest division. Also at this time, the term \"Boiler Makers\" was condensed into one word, \"Boilermakers.\"\n\nThe Boilermakers affiliated with the Building Trades Department of the American Federation of Labor in February 1931. At the turn of the century, total membership stood at about 8,500, but by 1944, due in part to dramatic increases in the shipbuilding, railroad, and fabrication shop industries during World War II, the Boilermakers numbered over 350,000.\n\nIn 1954, the Boilermakers merged their organization with the International Brotherhood of Blacksmiths, Drop Forgers and Helpers. The International Brotherhood of Blacksmiths had been organized in 1889 and added Helpers to both their membership and their name in 1901.\n\nA 1919 merger with the Brotherhood of Drop Forgers created the union that, on June 29, 1953, merged with the Boilermakers to create the International Brotherhood of Boilermakers, Iron Ship Builders, Blacksmiths, Forgers and Helpers. A year later, a new International seal was adopted to include all crafts.\n\nOn October 1, 1954, the Boilermaker National Health and Welfare Fund was established, on November 9, 1959, the Boilermakers National Joint Apprenticeship Fund began, and the Boilermaker-Blacksmith National Pension Trust became effective October 1, 1960.\n\nDelegates to the 1977 convention voted to establish a Construction Division at International Headquarters for the purpose of servicing those members with employment in, or related to, the construction industry.\n\nOn March 15, 1984, the delegates to the Special Merger Convention of the United Cement, Lime, Gypsum and Allied Workers International Union voted to merge with the International Brotherhood of Boilermakers, Iron Ship Builders, Blacksmiths, Forgers and Helpers. The merger of the CLGAW, formed in 1936, and its 10,000 members who dominate the building products and supplies industry, and the Boilermakers forged an organization with a greater ability to provide services to its members.\n\nOn October 1, 1994, a merger was consummated with the Stove, Furnace and Allied Appliance Workers International Union—a skilled trade union that was organized in 1891. The Stove Workers, with 5,800 members, became a division of the International Brotherhood known as the Stove, Furnace, Energy and Allied Appliance Workers Division. The word \"energy\" was inserted to give special recognition to coal miners within that division. The division had its members employed primarily in the manufacturing of stoves and various types of appliances.\n\nDuring the same period, merger talks were also being carried out with an independent union known as the Western Energy Workers. This one-local union, formed in 1978 with members employed in the coal strip-mining, signed a merger agreement with the Boilermakers effective December 1, 1994.\n\nIn October 1996, a merger agreement was made with the Metal Polishers, Buffers, Platers and Allied Workers International Union. This union was also an old line, skilled trade union that was organized in 1892. This merger brought 4,000 new members to the Brotherhood. These members are employed primarily in plating and polishing shops within the United States and Canada.\n\nOn July 24, 2003, International President Charles W. Jones resigned his office, and the International Executive Council elected Newton B. Jones to complete his unexpired term.\n\nNewton B. Jones is a 44-year member of the Boilermakers union. After being elected to fill the unexpired term of International President Charles W. Jones, who retired after 20 years in office and 60 years of service to the Brotherhood, Newton Jones was unanimously reelected to the Boilermakers’ top leadership position in 2006 and 2011, during the union's 31st and 32nd Consolidated Conventions. In 2016, at the 33rd Consolidated Convention, he was reelected International President by an overwhelming margin.\n\nNewton presently serves as a Vice President on the AFL-CIO Executive Council and as Chairman of the Materials Sector of IndustriALL, an international labor federation comprising 50 million workers in 140 countries. Since 2003, he has also served as Chairman of Brotherhood Bank & Trust. In 2008 he was unanimously chosen by the Brotherhood Bank and Trust Board of Directors to also serve as its Chief Executive Officer.\n\n"}
{"id": "1854580", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854580", "title": "S. S. McClure", "text": "S. S. McClure\n\nSamuel Sidney McClure (February 17, 1857– March 21, 1949) was an Irish-American publisher who became known as a key figure in investigative, or muckraking, journalism. He co-founded and ran \"McClure's Magazine\" from 1893 to 1911, which ran numerous exposées of wrongdoing in business and politics, such as those written by Ida Tarbell, Ray Stannard Baker, and Lincoln Steffens. The magazine ran fiction and nonfiction by the leading writers of the day, including Sarah Orne Jewett, Mark Twain, William Dean Howells, Joel Chandler Harris, Jack London, Stephen Crane, William Allen White and Willa Cather.\n\nHe was born to an Ulster Scots family in County Antrim in what is now Northern Ireland, and emigrated with his widowed mother to Indiana when he was nine years old. He grew up in near poverty on a farm and graduated from Valparaiso High School in 1875. He worked his way through Knox College, where he co-founded its student newspaper, and later moved to New York City.\n\nIn 1884, he established the McClure Syndicate, the first U.S. newspaper syndicate, and published in Sunday newspapers, containing serials of books, recipes and reviews.\nHe founded \"McClure's Magazine\" in 1893 and ran it successfully until 1911 when poor health and financial reorganization forced him out (and many of his writers had defected to form their own magazine). \"McClure's Magazine\" published influential pieces by respected journalists and authors including Jack London, Ida Tarbell, Upton Sinclair, Burton J. Hendrick, Rudyard Kipling, Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, Robert Louis Stevenson, Willa Cather, and Lincoln Steffens. Through his magazine, he introduced Dr. Maria Montessori's new teaching methods to North America in 1911. \n\nMcClure was a business partner of Frank Nelson Doubleday in Doubleday & McClure, ancestor to today's Doubleday imprint. After McClure left Doubleday, he established the publisher McClure, Phillips and Company with John Sanborn Phillips. Phillips left to purchase \"The American Magazine\" in 1906 and McClure sold his book publishing operations to Doubleday, Page in 1908. After he was ousted in 1911, \"McClure's Magazine\" serialized his autobiography, ghost-written by one of the magazine's editors, Willa Cather.\n\nMcClure created a whole new form of writing for his journalists that we still use today. Instead of demanding that his writers give him articles for his paper immediately, he would give them all the time they needed to do extensive research on their topics.\n\nRudyard Kipling was one writer who rejected McClure's offer of a long term contract, quoting as justification Ecclesiasticus (Chapt. 33, verse 21): \"As long as thou livest and hast breath in thee, give not thyself over to any\". Kipling was also present when McClure began to contemplate the launch of a new literary magazine. He recalled in his autobiography:\n\nHe died in New York City in 1949, at the age of 92. He is buried next to his wife Harriet at Hope Cemetery in Galesburg, Illinois.\nAccording to his biographer Peter Lyon, McClure was, \"one of the greatest instinctive editors ever to function in the US, and one of the most wretched businessmen.\" Lyon suggests that he had a manic-depressive personality, combining enthusiasm, tenacity, and a remarkable talent for predicting public responses. He favored Western writers, and especially muckraking articles that made his magazine famous. On the other hand, he was unstable with a hair-trigger impatience that alienated many staffers. Always in the red, he sold first his book publishing house, then his nationwide newspaper syndicate, and finally his own magazine. \n\n"}
{"id": "1854582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854582", "title": "Ancón District", "text": "Ancón District\n\nAncón is a district of northern Lima Province in Peru. It is a popular beach resort, visited every summer by thousands of people from Lima.\nOfficially established as a district on October 29, 1874, the current mayor (\"alcalde\") of Ancón is John Barrera Bernui . The district's postal code is 2.\n\nAncón is an important site in Peruvian history and archaeology. This was a fishing town and as a burying ground for pre-Inca Indigenous civilizations of Ancon-Supe, which flourished about 4,000 years ago as one of the oldest societies in Peruvian history.\n\nIn Ancon (archaeological site), the ridges of gravel and sandy soil were littered with skulls, bones, and remnants of tattered handwoven cloth. Beneath the surface, grave robbers found mummified bodies with all the accompanying grave goods in shallow graves.\n\nIn this region, the preservation of the bodies was due to the dry climate, and also reportedly, the saltpetre and other preservative elements contained in the soil.\n\nIn the late 1800s, archaeologist digging here found bodies, sometimes tattooed, adorned with beads, copper earrings and bird feathers, and swathed in richly colored blankets or cotton cloth, with jars of provisions beside them. Tablets fashioned of cloth, stretched upon frames of wood and painted with figures and characters, described the virtues of the deceased.\n\nPre-historic Ancón was a fishing village, so many handmade nets were found, along with baskets of woven fibre representing the industries of women.\n\nThe extension of the railroad in 1870 to Chancay made the Necropolis of Ancón easily accessible to the day visitor. The geologists Reiss and Stubel conducted their excavations at Ancón during the period 1874-1875 because they feared the extent of digging there would quickly deplete the site. In 1884 Stolpe conducted excavations at Ancon on behalf of the Museum of Ethnography in Stockholm.\n\nModern buildings and old houses dating back to the 19th century can be found in the district's beach area. Ancón has a yacht club that exists since 1950.\n\nThe Treaty of Ancón, that ended the War of the Pacific, was signed on October 20, 1883, ceding Tarapacá to Chile.\n\nThe district has a total land area of . Its administrative center is located 3 meters above sea level.\n\n\nThe district is divided into 2 populated centers ():\n\n\nAccording to the 2005 census by the INEI, the district has 29,419 inhabitants, a population density of 98.3 persons/km² and 12,990 households. It is the second largest district and the 40th most populous district in Lima.\n\nAncón used to be a deluxe upscale beach resort during the 19th and early 20th centuries. Its sandy soil and dry atmosphere made it a welcome place for persons with pulmonary and bronchial affections. Besides the beach, in 1913, there was a tennis court, one or two hotels, and many cottages. The train trip from Desamparados station in downtown Lima took about an hour and a half through dry desert. <br>\n<br>\n\n"}
{"id": "1854584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854584", "title": "Plateau Creek (Colorado)", "text": "Plateau Creek (Colorado)\n\nPlateau Creek is a tributary of the Colorado River, approximately long, located in western Colorado in the United States. It drains a cattle ranching valley, known as Plateau Valley, north of the Grand Mesa and east of Grand Junction.\n\nIt rises in northeastern Mesa County, in the Grand Mesa National Forest and descends through a narrow canyon to the northwest, passing north of Vega State Park. It enters the Plateau Valley at Collbran, the largest community in the valley. It flows generally west along the north edge of the Grand Mesa uplands, past Molina. State Highway 330 follows the creek through the valley, crossing it several times. Near the junction of State Highway 330 and State Highway 65 it enters a narrow canyon for the lower , followed by State Highway 65. It joins the Colorado from the east in De Beque Canyon approximately east of Grand Junction.\n\n"}
{"id": "1854592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854592", "title": "Pounce (cat treats)", "text": "Pounce (cat treats)\n\nPounce is a line of cat treats or snacks that are manufactured by The J.M. Smucker Company. The treats come in different flavors such as Tuna, Chicken, and Seafood Medley. In the 1980s, pounces were also available in such flavors as shrimp (packaged in a yellow container) and beef (packaged in a red container), vegetable (in a green container), and Italian Bread (in a white container).\n\nOn March 31, 2008, Del Monte Foods announced a recall of Pounce Meaty Morsels Moist Chicken Flavor Cat Treats, Codes TP7C12 and TP7C07, Best By: Sep 04 2008 and Sep 09 2008.\n\n"}
{"id": "1854597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854597", "title": "Stacy Carter", "text": "Stacy Carter\n\nStacy Lee Carter (born September 29, 1970) is an American professional wrestling valet and occasional professional wrestler. She is better known for her work in the World Wrestling Federation under her ring name The Kat.\n\nDuring her tenure in the World Wrestling Federation, she held the Women's Championship once, although she was not a trained wrestler. During the Armageddon pay-per-view in December 1999, she flashed her breasts in what was an early instance of intentional nudity in the WWF. After the event, she was shown nude several more times on other pay-per-views. She is also an ex-wife of wrestler and color-commentator Jerry Lawler, who quit the WWF after Carter was released in early 2001 but returned after their divorce in July 2001. She currently works on the independent circuit under her real name.\n\nStacy Carter first appeared on World Wrestling Federation (WWF)'s flagship program, \"Raw is War\", in August 1999. She debuted as Miss Kitty, an assistant to Debra, appointed to her by Jeff Jarrett, whom Debra managed. The partnership ended when Jarrett left the company after losing the Intercontinental Championship to Chyna at No Mercy. Because Jarrett was departing the company after the match, Carter began managing Chyna, and then started dressing in 'Chyna-like' clothing and wearing a black wig.\n\nAt Armageddon in December 1999, Miss Kitty won her only WWF Women's Championship in a Four Corners Evening Gown Pool match by defeating then-champion Ivory, Jacqueline, and Barbara \"BB\" Bush by stripping them of their gowns. The special guest referees were The Fabulous Moolah and Mae Young. After the match, Miss Kitty stripped out of her dress in celebration and quickly flashed the crowd her breasts. This was the first instance of intentional nudity in the WWF. The following evening, she announced before successfully defending her title in a Chocolate Pudding Match that she was changing her name to The Kat. The Kat then appeared at the Royal Rumble in the 'Miss Royal Rumble Swimsuit Contest', where she appeared in a bikini made out of bubble wrap. The contest, however, was won by Mae Young. She lost the Championship on the January 31 edition of \"Raw\" to Hervina in a \"Lumberjill Snowbunny match\", a match that took place in a snow filled pool surrounded by female wrestlers whose purpose was to keep The Kat and Hervina from leaving the pool.\n\nThe Kat then began an on-screen rivalry with Terri Runnels, although neither were fully trained wrestlers. At WrestleMania 2000, Runnels (accompanied by The Fabulous Moolah) defeated The Kat (with Mae Young) in a catfight. Val Venis was the special guest referee, but he was distracted during the match when Young kissed him, which allowed Moolah to pull The Kat out of the ring. When Venis saw her out of the ring, he declared Runnels the winner. Post-match, The Kat attacked Runnels by stripping off her pants to expose her thong. The feud continued, and the duo had an arm wrestling match at Insurrextion. Carter was victorious, but after the match, Runnels pulled The Kat's top off, exposing her breasts, which Carter allowed instead of acting disgusted or embarrassed. The two women continued to feud throughout the summer, often in mixed tag matches. In June 2000, Carter attempted to regain the Women's Championship by entering a battle royal to become the #1 contender, but she was eliminated by her rival Terri. The feud resurfaced in a 'Thong Stink Face' match at SummerSlam, which The Kat won by performing a stinkface on Runnels.\n\nIn early 2001, The Kat began a new storyline with a stable called the Right to Censor, a group of wrestlers purportedly wanting to rein in the vulgarity of the \"Attitude Era,\" during which she demanded equal time for the \"right for nudity\". At No Way Out, Jerry Lawler, who was representing The Kat, lost a match to Steven Richards, the head of the stable, after The Kat mistakenly hit Lawler with the Women's Championship belt. As a result of Lawler losing the match, she was forced to join the stable. On February 27, 2001, however, Carter was released from the WWF in the middle of the storyline. As a result, her husband Jerry Lawler also quit the company. According to Lawler, Carter was released from the WWF because Vince McMahon decided to end the angle with the Right to Censor. Other insiders cite Carter's negative backstage attitude as the reason for her dismissal.\n\nAfter Carter and Lawler left the World Wrestling Federation, they worked various independent wrestling events. They also signed with Tri-Star Productions and worked at Memphis Championship Wrestling. Carter made her debut for Tri-State Wrestling Alliance (TWA) on June 5, 2010 at the \"TWA Homecoming\" event in Plymouth Meeting, Pennsylvania, where she teamed up with Demolition (Ax and Smash) in a winning effort defeating Sheeta and The Nigerian Nightmares (Maifu and Saifu) in a 6-person mixed-tag team match. Carter made her debut for Stranglehold Wrestling (SHW) on August 26, 2010 at the \"Stranglehold Devils Playground Tour\" in Oshawa, Ontario, Canada, where she competed in an Arm-Wrestling match against Pissed off Pete in a no-contest. Later that event, Carter accompied Sinn Bohdi to the ring where he competed against George Terzis.\n\nStacy Carter's family was originally from West Memphis, Arkansas. After her parents divorced, Carter's mother moved to Memphis, Tennessee. Stacy Carter, however, as well as her younger brother and sister, continued to live with their father, who worked as a policeman, in Arkansas. Carter moved to Memphis to live with her mother, Cathy, after graduating from high school.\n\nStacy Carter met Jerry Lawler, her future husband, at a charity softball game at Treadwell High School in Memphis on July 23, 1989, two months before her nineteenth birthday. She was attending the game with her mother, who was dating one of the players on the team for which Lawler also played. Lawler, however, was married at the time, and he claims that when he initially met Carter, he considered an affair. After Lawler separated from his wife, Carter moved in with him. When Carter first met Lawler, she was working as a bank teller. Lawler later helped her get a job at a photography studio, and she also opened and ran her own hair salon.\n\nLawler and Carter married in September 2000. While they were together, former professional wrestler Missy Hyatt offered Carter $10,000 to pose nude on her website, but Carter refused the offer. Carter decided to leave Lawler in July 2001, and they separated not long after. She left pro wrestling upon separating from Jerry Lawler. She worked in the field of real estate in Lee County, Florida for Century 21 for some time after the divorce.\n\nCarter and professional wrestler Nick Cvjetkovich announced their engagement on June 12, 2010. Cvjetkovich and Carter were married in St. Petersburg Florida July 29, 2010 on the beach in front of many family and friends. Stevan Cvjetkovich (Nicholas' younger brother) and Edge both stood as best men. Jimmy Hart gave Carter away in the ceremony.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1854607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854607", "title": "Roberta Blackman-Woods", "text": "Roberta Blackman-Woods\n\nRoberta Carol Blackman-Woods (born Roberta Carol Woods; 16 August 1957) is a British academic and former Labour Party politician who was the Member of Parliament (MP) for the City of Durham from 2005 to 2019.\n\nBlackman-Woods is from Northern Ireland and was educated at the University of Ulster, graduating with a BSc degree and later a PhD in Social Science. Following this she was employed by Newcastle City Council, before going on to pursue a career in academia.\n\nAs a sociologist with expertise in housing, she served as Professor of Social Policy and an Associate Dean in the School of Arts and Social Sciences at the University of Northumbria prior to her election, and had previously been Dean of Social and Labour studies at Ruskin College, Oxford and head of policy at the Local Government Information Unit. Blackman-Woods had previously been Chair of the City of Durham Constituency Labour Party and before that in Newcastle upon Tyne East and Wallsend. She has also served as a Councillor on Oxford and Newcastle City Councils.\n\nIn 2004, Blackman-Woods was selected as the Labour candidate for the City of Durham constituency through an All-Women Shortlist. In her previous work she had been known by her maiden name, Roberta Woods, but added her husband's surname, Blackman, after selection to avoid confusion with Liberal Democrat candidate Carol Woods.\n\nElected at the 2005 general election with a majority of 3,274, Blackman-Woods made her maiden speech to the House of Commons on 24 May 2005, making reference to the work of her predecessor Gerry Steinberg, the importance to Durham of Durham Cathedral, the University of Durham and the historic legacy of mining within the area.\n\nBlackman-Woods was a member of the Joint Committee on Statutory Instruments from 2005–2010 and has also been a member of the Education and Skills Select committee and the Business, Innovation, Science and Skills Select Committee. In 2006 she became the Parliamentary Private Secretary to the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster, Hilary Armstrong. This post lasted until Armstrong returned to the backbenches when Gordon Brown became Prime Minister, but Blackman-Woods was then appointed PPS to the Secretary of State for Defence, Des Browne, in 2007. Following Des Brown's retirement to the backbenches she served as PPS to David Lammy MP as Minister of State for Higher Education. She was also Chair of the All Party Afghanistan Group from 2005 and the All Party Balanced and Sustainable Communities Group from 2007.\n\nBlackman-Woods was also an active member of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association and the Inter-Parliamentary Union throughout her Parliamentary career.\n\nIn 2010, she was re-elected to Parliament with a majority of 3,067, and was appointed Shadow Minister for Business in June 2010, before being moved to shadow the Civil Society Minister by new Labour Leader Ed Miliband in October 2010. In the October 2011 shadow cabinet re-shuffle, Blackman-Woods was moved to become Shadow Minister in Communities and Local Government covering planning policy and procurement.\n\nIn 2015, she was re-elected with a majority of 11,439, and was confirmed as the shadow housing minister. She resigned from the front bench in June 2016, before supporting Owen Smith in the 2016 Labour leadership election. She subsequently rejoined the front bench on Corbyn's re-election.\n\nShe was re-elected in 2017 with a majority of 12,362, and in July 2017 she was appointed as a Shadow International Development Minister.\n\nOn 16 July 2019 she announced that she would not be standing at the next general election for family reasons. She gave her valedictory speech in the House of Commons on 5 November 2019.\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "1854610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854610", "title": "Opposition to United States involvement in the Vietnam War", "text": "Opposition to United States involvement in the Vietnam War\n\nOpposition to United States involvement in the Vietnam War began with demonstrations in 1964 against the escalating role of the United States in the Vietnam War and grew into a broad social movement over the ensuing several years. This movement informed and helped shape the vigorous and polarizing debate, primarily in the United States, during the second half of the 1960s and early 1970s on how to end the war.\n\nMany in the peace movement within the United States were students, mothers, or anti-establishment hippies. Opposition grew with participation by the African-American civil rights, women's liberation, Chicano Movements, and sectors of organized labor. Additional involvement came from many other groups, including educators, clergy, academics, journalists, lawyers, physicians—such as Benjamin Spock—and military veterans.\n\nTheir actions consisted mainly of peaceful, nonviolent events; few events were deliberately provocative and violent. In some cases, police used violent tactics against peaceful demonstrators. By 1967, according to Gallup polls, an increasing majority of Americans considered military involvement in Vietnam to be a mistake, echoed decades later by the then-head of American war planning, former Secretary of Defense Robert McNamara.\n\nThe draft, a system of conscription that mainly drew from minorities and lower and middle class whites, drove much of the protest after 1965. Conscientious objectors played an active role despite their small numbers. The prevailing sentiment that the draft was unfairly administered inflamed blue-collar American, especially African-American, opposition to the military draft itself.\n\nOpposition to the war arose during a time of unprecedented student activism, which followed the free speech movement and the Civil Rights Movement. The military draft mobilized the baby boomers, who were most at risk, but it grew to include a varied cross-section of Americans. The growing opposition to the Vietnam War was partly attributed to greater access to uncensored information through extensive television coverage on the ground in Vietnam.\n\nBeyond opposition to the draft, anti-war protesters also made moral arguments against U.S. involvement in Vietnam. That moral imperative argument against the war was especially popular among American college students, who were more likely than the general public to accuse the United States of having imperialistic goals in Vietnam and to criticize the war as \"immoral.\" Civilian deaths, which were downplayed or omitted entirely by the Western media, became a subject of protest when photographic evidence of casualties emerged. An infamous photo of General Nguyễn Ngọc Loan shooting an alleged terrorist in handcuffs during the Tet Offensive also provoked public outcry.\n\nAnother element of the American opposition to the war was the perception that U.S. intervention in Vietnam, which had been argued as acceptable because of the domino theory and the threat of communism, was not legally justifiable. Some Americans believed that the communist threat was used as a scapegoat to hide imperialistic intentions, and others argued that the American intervention in South Vietnam interfered with the self-determination of the country and felt that the war in Vietnam was a civil war that ought to have determined the fate of the country and that America was wrong to intervene.\n\nMedia coverage of the war also shook the faith of citizens at home as new television brought images of wartime conflict to the kitchen table. Newsmen like NBC's Frank McGee stated that the war was all but lost as a \"conclusion to be drawn inescapably from the facts.\" For the first time in American history, the media had the means to broadcast battlefield images. Graphic footage of casualties on the nightly news eliminated any myth of the glory of war. With no clear sign of victory in Vietnam, American military casualties helped stimulate opposition to the war by Americans. In their book \"Manufacturing Consent\", Edward S. Herman and Noam Chomsky reject the mainstream view of how the media influenced the war and propose that the media instead censored the more brutal images of the fighting and the death of millions of innocent people.\n\nThe U.S. became polarized over the war. Many supporters of U.S. involvement argued for what was known as the domino theory, a theory that believed if one country fell to communism, then the bordering countries would be sure to fall as well, much like falling dominoes. This theory was largely held due to the fall of eastern Europe to communism and the Soviet sphere of influence following World War II. However, military critics of the war pointed out that the Vietnam War was political and that the military mission lacked any clear idea of how to achieve its objectives. Civilian critics of the war argued that the government of South Vietnam lacked political legitimacy, or that support for the war was completely immoral.\n\nThe media also played a substantial role in the polarization of American opinion regarding the Vietnam War. For example, In 1965 a majority of the media attention focused on military tactics with very little discussion about the necessity for a full scale intervention in Southeast Asia. After 1965, the media covered the dissent and domestic controversy that existed within the United States, but mostly excluded the actual view of dissidents and resisters.\n\nThe media established a sphere of public discourse surrounding the Hawk versus Dove debate. The Dove was a liberal and a critic of the war. Doves claimed that the war was well–intentioned but a disastrously wrong mistake in an otherwise benign foreign policy. It is important to note the Doves did not question the U.S. intentions in intervening in Vietnam, nor did they question the morality or legality of the U.S. intervention. Rather, they made pragmatic claims that the war was a mistake. Contrarily, the Hawks argued that the war was legitimate and winnable and a part of the benign U.S. foreign policy. The Hawks claimed that the one-sided criticism of the media contributed to the decline of public support for the war and ultimately helped the U.S. lose the war. Author William F. Buckley repeatedly wrote about his approval for the war and suggested that \"The United States has been timid, if not cowardly, in refusing to seek 'victory' in Vietnam.\" The hawks claimed that the liberal media was responsible for the growing popular disenchantment with the war and blamed the western media for losing the war in Southeast Asia as communism was no longer a threat for them.\n\nProtests against the Vietnam War took place in the late 1960s and early 1970s. The protests were part of a movement in opposition to the Vietnam War and took place mainly in the United States. (See also Students for a Democratic Society, Free Speech Movement, Jerry Rubin, Abbie Hoffman, Youth International Party, Chicago Seven.)\nProtests bringing attention to \"the draft\" began on May 5, 1965. Student activists at the University of California, Berkeley marched on the Berkeley Draft board and forty students staged the first public burning of a draft card in the United States. Another nineteen cards were burnt on May 22 at a demonstration following the Berkeley teach-in. Draft card protests were not aimed so much at the draft as at the immoral conduct of the war.\n\nAt that time, only a fraction of all men of draft age were actually conscripted, but the Selective Service System office (\"Draft Board\") in each locality had broad discretion on whom to draft and whom to exempt where there was no clear guideline for exemption. In late July 1965, Johnson doubled the number of young men to be drafted per month from 17,000 to 35,000, and on August 31, signed a law making it a crime to burn a draft card.\n\nOn October 15, 1965 the student-run National Coordinating Committee to End the War in Vietnam in New York staged the first draft card burning to result in an arrest under the new law.\n\nGruesome images of two anti-war activists who set themselves on fire in November 1965 provided iconic images of how strongly some people felt that the war was immoral. On November 2, 32-year-old Quaker Norman Morrison set himself on fire in front of The Pentagon. On November 9, 22-year-old Catholic Worker Movement member Roger Allen LaPorte did the same in front of United Nations Headquarters in New York City. Both protests were conscious imitations of earlier (and ongoing) Buddhist protests in South Vietnam.\n\nThe growing anti-war movement alarmed many in the U.S. government. On August 16, 1966 the House Un-American Activities Committee (HUAC) began investigations of Americans who were suspected of aiding the NLF, with the intent to introduce legislation making these activities illegal. Anti-war demonstrators disrupted the meeting and 50 were arrested.\n\nIn February 1967, \"The New York Review of Books\" published \"The Responsibility of Intellectuals\", an essay by Noam Chomsky, one of the leading intellectual opponents of the war. In the essay Chomsky argued that much responsibility for the war lay with liberal intellectuals and technical experts who were providing what he saw as pseudoscientific justification for the policies of the U.S. government. The Time Inc magazines \"Time\" and \"Life\" maintained a very pro-war editorial stance until October 1967, when in a \"volte-face\", the editor-in-chief, Hedley Donovan, came out against the war. Donovan wrote in an editorial in \"Life\" that the United States had gone into Vietnam for \"honorable and sensible purposes\", but the war had turned out to be \"harder, longer, more complicated\" than expected. Donovan ended his editorial by writing the war was \"not worth winning\", as South Vietnam was \"not absolutely imperative\" to maintain American interests in Asia, which made it impossible \"to ask young Americans to die for\".\n\nIn 1967, the continued operation of a seemingly unfair draft system then calling as many as 40,000 men for induction each month fueled a burgeoning draft resistance movement. The draft favored white, middle-class men, which allowed an economically and racially discriminating draft to force young African American men to serve in rates that were disproportionately higher than the general population. Although in 1967 there was a smaller field of draft eligible black men–29 percent versus 63 percent of draft eligible white men–64 percent of black men were chosen to serve in the war through conscription, compared to only 31 percent of eligible white men.\n\nOn October 16, 1967, draft card turn-ins were held across the country, yielding more than 1,000 draft cards, later returned to the Justice Department as an act of civil disobedience. Resisters expected to be prosecuted immediately, but Attorney General Ramsey Clark instead prosecuted a group of ringleaders including Dr. Benjamin Spock and Yale chaplain William Sloane Coffin, Jr. in Boston in 1968. By the late 1960s, one quarter of all court cases dealt with the draft, including men accused of draft-dodging and men petitioning for the status of conscientious objector. Over 210,000 men were accused of draft-related offenses, 25,000 of whom were indicted.\n\nThe charges of unfairness led to the institution of a draft lottery for the year 1970 in which a young man's birthday determined his relative risk of being drafted (September 14 was the birthday at the top of the draft list for 1970; the following year July 9 held this distinction).\n\nOn February 1, 1968, Nguyễn Văn Lém, a Vietcong officer suspected of participating in murder of South Vietnamese government officials during the Tet Offensive, was summarily executed by General Nguyễn Ngọc Loan, the South Vietnamese National Police Chief. Loan shot Lém in the head on a public street in Saigon front of journalists. South Vietnamese reports provided as justification after the fact claimed that Lém was captured near the site of a ditch holding as many as thirty-four bound and shot bodies of police and their relatives, some of whom were the families of General Loan's deputy and close friend. The execution provided an iconic image that helped sway public opinion in the United States against the war.\n\nThe events of Tet in early 1968 as a whole were also remarkable in shifting public opinion regarding the war. U.S. military officials had previously reported that counter-insurgency in South Vietnam was being prosecuted successfully. While the Tet Offensive provided the U.S. and allied militaries with a great victory in that the Vietcong was finally brought into open battle and destroyed as a fighting force, the American media, including respected figures such as Walter Cronkite, interpreted such events as the attack on the American embassy in Saigon as an indicator of U.S. military weakness. The military victories on the battlefields of Tet were obscured by shocking images of violence on television screens, long casualty lists, and a new perception among the American people that the military had been untruthful to them about the success of earlier military operations, and ultimately, the ability to achieve a meaningful military solution in Vietnam.\n\nIn 1968, President Lyndon B. Johnson began his re-election campaign. Eugene McCarthy ran against him for the nomination on an anti-war platform. McCarthy did not win the first primary election in New Hampshire, but he did surprisingly well against an incumbent. The resulting blow to the Johnson campaign, taken together with other factors, led the President to make a surprise announcement in a March 31 televised speech that he was pulling out of the race. He also announced the initiation of the Paris Peace Negotiations with Vietnam in that speech. Then, on August 4, 1969, U.S. representative Henry Kissinger and North Vietnamese representative Xuan Thuy began secret peace negotiations at the apartment of French intermediary Jean Sainteny in Paris.\n\nAfter breaking with Johnson's pro-war stance, Robert F. Kennedy entered the race on March 16 and ran for the nomination on an anti-war platform. Johnson's vice president, Hubert Humphrey, also ran for the nomination, promising to continue to support the South Vietnamese government.\n\nIn May 1969, \"Life\" magazine published in a single issue photographs of the faces of the roughly 250 or so American servicemen who had been killed in Vietnam during a \"routine week\" of war in the spring of 1969. Contrary to expectations, the issue sold out with many being haunted by the photographs of the ordinary young Americans killed. On October 15, 1969, hundreds of thousands of people took part in National Moratorium anti-war demonstrations across the United States; the demonstrations prompted many workers to call in sick from their jobs and adolescents nationwide engaged in truancy from school. About 15 million Americans took part in the demonstration of 15 October, making it the largest protests in a single day up to that point. A second round of \"Moratorium\" demonstrations was held on November 15 and attracted more people than the first.\n\nThe U.S. realized that the South Vietnamese government needed a solid base of popular support if it were to survive the insurgency. To pursue this goal of winning the \"Hearts and Minds\" of the Vietnamese people, units of the United States Army, referred to as \"Civil Affairs\" units, were used extensively for the first time since World War II.\n\nCivil Affairs units, while remaining armed and under direct military control, engaged in what came to be known as \"nation-building\": constructing (or reconstructing) schools, public buildings, roads and other infrastructure; conducting medical programs for civilians who had no access to medical facilities; facilitating cooperation among local civilian leaders; conducting hygiene and other training for civilians; and similar activities.\n\nThis policy of attempting to win the hearts and minds of the Vietnamese people, however, often was at odds with other aspects of the war which sometimes served to antagonize many Vietnamese civilians and provided ammunition to the anti-war movement. These included the emphasis on \"body count\" as a way of measuring military success on the battlefield, civilian casualties during the bombing of villages (symbolized by journalist Peter Arnett's famous quote, \"it was necessary to destroy the village to save it\"), and the killing of civilians in such incidents as the My Lai massacre. In 1974 the documentary \"Hearts and Minds\" sought to portray the devastation the war was causing to the South Vietnamese people, and won an Academy Award for best documentary amid considerable controversy. The South Vietnamese government also antagonized many of its citizens with its suppression of political opposition, through such measures as holding large numbers of political prisoners, torturing political opponents, and holding a one-man election for President in 1971. Covert counter-terror programs and semi-covert ones such as the Phoenix Program attempted, with the help of anthropologists, to isolate rural South Vietnamese villages and affect the loyalty of the residents.\n\nDespite the increasingly depressing news of the war, many Americans continued to support President Johnson's endeavors. Aside from the domino theory mentioned above, there was a feeling that the goal of preventing a communist takeover of a pro-Western government in South Vietnam was a noble objective. Many Americans were also concerned about saving face in the event of disengaging from the war or, as President Richard M. Nixon later put it, \"achieving Peace with Honor.\" In addition, instances of Viet Cong atrocities were widely reported, most notably in an article that appeared in \"Reader's Digest\" in 1968 entitled \"The Blood-Red Hands of Ho Chi Minh\".\n\nHowever, anti-war feelings also began to rise. Many Americans opposed the war on moral grounds, appalled by the devastation and violence of the war. Others claimed the conflict was a war against Vietnamese independence, or an intervention in a foreign civil war; others opposed it because they felt it lacked clear objectives and appeared to be unwinnable. Many anti-war activists were themselves Vietnam veterans, as evidenced by the organization Vietnam Veterans Against the War.\n\nThe first draft lottery since World War II in the United States was held on 1 December 1969 and was met with large protests and a great deal of controversy; statistical analysis indicated that the methodology of the lotteries unintentionally disadvantaged men with late year birthdays. This issue was treated at length in a January 4, 1970 \"New York Times\" article titled \"Statisticians Charge Draft Lottery Was Not Random\".\n\nVarious antiwar groups, such as Another Mother for Peace, WILPF, and WSP, had free draft counseling centers, where they gave young American men advice for legally and illegally evading the draft.\n\nOver 30,000 people left the country and went to Canada, Sweden, and Mexico to avoid the draft. The Japanese anti-war group Beheiren helped some American soldiers to desert and hide from the military in Japan.\n\nTo gain an exemption or deferment, many men attended college, though they had to remain in college until their 26th birthday to be certain of avoiding the draft. Some men were rejected by the military as 4-F unfit for service failing to meet physical, mental, or moral standards. Still others joined the National Guard or entered the Peace Corps as a way of avoiding Vietnam. All of these issues raised concerns about the fairness of who got selected for involuntary service, since it was often the poor or those without connections who were drafted. Ironically, in light of modern political issues, a certain exemption was a convincing claim of homosexuality, but very few men attempted this because of the stigma involved. Also, conviction for certain crimes earned an exclusion, the topic of the anti-war song \"Alice's Restaurant\" by Arlo Guthrie.\n\nEven many of those who never received a deferment or exemption never served, simply because the pool of eligible men was so huge compared to the number required for service, that the draft boards never got around to drafting them when a new crop of men became available (until 1969) or because they had high lottery numbers (1970 and later).\n\nOf those soldiers who served during the war, there was increasing opposition to the conflict amongst GIs, which resulted in fragging and many other activities which hampered the US's ability to wage war effectively.\n\nMost of those subjected to the draft were too young to vote or drink in most states, and the image of young people being forced to risk their lives in the military without the privileges of enfranchisement or the ability to drink alcohol legally also successfully pressured legislators to lower the voting age nationally and the drinking age in many states.\n\nStudent opposition groups on many college and university campuses seized campus administration offices, and in several instances forced the expulsion of ROTC programs from the campus.\n\nSome Americans who were not subject to the draft protested the conscription of their tax dollars for the war effort. War tax resistance, once mostly isolated to solitary anarchists like Henry David Thoreau and religious pacifists like the Quakers, became a more mainstream protest tactic. As of 1972, an estimated 200,000–500,000 people were refusing to pay the excise taxes on their telephone bills, and another 20,000 were resisting part or all of their income tax bills. Among the tax resisters were Joan Baez and Noam Chomsky.\n\nIn April 1971, thousands of these veterans converged on the White House in Washington, D.C., and hundreds of them threw their medals and decorations on the steps of the United States Capitol. By this time, it had also become commonplace for the most radical anti-war demonstrators to prominently display the flag of the Viet Cong \"enemy\", an act which alienated many who were otherwise morally opposed to the war.\n\nAs the Vietnam War continued to escalate, public disenchantment grew and a variety of different groups were formed or became involved in the movement.\n\nAfrican-American leaders of earlier decades like W. E. B. Du Bois were often anti-imperialist and anti-capitalist. Paul Robeson weighed in on the Vietnamese struggle in 1954, calling Ho Chi Minh \"the modern day Toussaint L'Overture, leading his people to freedom.\" These figures were driven from public life by McCarthyism, however, and black leaders were more cautious about criticizing US foreign policy as the 1960s began.\n\nBy the middle of the decade, open condemnation of the war became more common, with figures like Malcolm X and Bob Moses speaking out. Champion boxer Muhammad Ali risked his career and a prison sentence to resist the draft in 1966. Soon Martin Luther King, Jr., Coretta Scott King and James Bevel of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference (SCLC) became prominent opponents of the Vietnam War, and Bevel became the director of the National Mobilization Committee to End the War in Vietnam. The Black Panther Party vehemently opposed U.S. involvement in Vietnam. In the beginning of the war, some African Americans did not want to join the war opposition movement because of loyalty to President Johnson for pushing Civil Rights legislation, but soon the escalating violence of the war and the perceived social injustice of the draft propelled involvement in antiwar groups.\n\nIn March 1965, King first criticized the war during the Selma march when he told a journalist that \"millions of dollars can be spent every day to hold troops in South Vietnam and our country cannot protect the rights of Negroes in Selma\". In 1965, the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee (SNCC) became the first major civil rights group to issue a formal statement against the war. When SNCC-backed Georgia Representative Julian Bond acknowledged his agreement with the anti-war statement, he was refused his seat by the State of Georgia, an injustice which he successfully appealed up to the Supreme Court. SNCC had special significance as a nexus between the student movement and the black movement. At an SDS-organized conference at UC Berkeley in October 1966, SNCC Chair Stokely Carmichael challenged the white left to escalate their resistance to the military draft in a manner similar to the black movement. Some participants in ghetto rebellions of the era had already associated their actions with opposition to the Vietnam War, and SNCC first disrupted an Atlanta draft board in August 1966. According to historians Joshua Bloom and Waldo Martin, SDS's first Stop the Draft Week of October 1967 was \"inspired by Black Power [and] emboldened by the ghetto rebellions.\" SNCC appear to have originated the popular anti-draft slogan: \"Hell no! We won't go!\"\n\nOn 4 April 1967, King gave a much publicized speech entitled \"\" at the Riverside Church in New York, attacking President Johnson for \"deadly Western arrogance\", declaring that \"we are on the side of the wealthy, and the secure, while we create a hell for the poor\". King's speech attracted much controversy at the time with many feeling that it was ungrateful for him to attack the president who done the most for civil rights for African Americans since Abraham Lincoln had abolished slavery a century before. Liberal newspapers such as the \"Washington Post\" and the \"New York Times\" condemned King for his \"Beyond Vietnam\" speech while the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People disallowed him. The \"Beyond Vietnam\" speech involved King in a debate with the diplomat Ralph Bunche who argued that it was folly to associate the civil rights movement with the anti-Vietnam war movement, maintaining that this would set back civil rights for African Americans.\n\nBlack antiwar groups opposed the war for similar reasons as white groups, but often protested in separate events and sometimes did not cooperate with the ideas of white antiwar leadership. They harshly criticized the draft because poor and minority men were usually most affected by conscription. In 1965 and 1966, African Americans comprised 25 percent of combat deaths, more than twice their proportion of the population. As a result, black enlisted men themselves protested and began the resistance movement among veterans. After taking measures to reduce the fatalities, apparently in response to widespread protest, the military brought the proportion of blacks down to 12.6 percent of casualties.\n\nAfrican Americans involved in the antiwar movement often formed their own groups, such as Black Women Enraged, National Black Anti-War Anti-Draft Union, and National Black Draft Counselors. Within these groups, however, many African American women were seen as subordinate members by black male leaders. Many African American women viewed the war in Vietnam as racially motivated and sympathized strongly with Vietnamese women. Such concerns often propelled their participation in the antiwar movement and their creation of new opposition groups.\n\nMany artists during the 1960s and 1970s opposed the war and used their creativity and careers to visibly oppose the war. Writers and poets opposed to involvement in the war included Allen Ginsberg, Denise Levertov, Robert Duncan, and Robert Bly. Their pieces often incorporated imagery based on the tragic events of the war as well as the disparity between life in Vietnam and life in the United States. Visual artists Ronald Haeberle, Peter Saul, and Nancy Spero, among others, used war equipment, like guns and helicopters, in their works while incorporating important political and war figures, portraying to the nation exactly who was responsible for the violence. Filmmakers such as Lenny Lipton, Jerry Abrams, Peter Gessner, and David Ringo created documentary-style movies featuring actual footage from the antiwar marches to raise awareness about the war and the diverse opposition movement. Playwrights like Frank O'Hara, Sam Shepard, Robert Lowell, Megan Terry, Grant Duay, and Kenneth Bernard used theater as a vehicle for portraying their thoughts about the Vietnam War, often satirizing the role of America in the world and juxtaposing the horrific effects of war with normal scenes of life. Regardless of medium, antiwar artists ranged from pacifists to violent radicals and caused Americans to think more critically about the war. Art as war opposition was quite popular in the early years of the war, but soon faded as political activism became the more common and most visible way of opposing the war.\n\nMany Asian Americans were strongly opposed to the Vietnam War. They saw the war as being a bigger action of U.S. imperialism and \"connected the oppression of the Asians in the United States to the prosecution of the war in Vietnam.\" Unlike many Americans in the anti-war movement, they viewed the war \"not just as imperialist but specifically as anti-Asian.\" Groups like the Asian American Political Alliance (AAPA), the Bay Area Coalition Against the War (BAACAW), and the Asian Americans for Action made opposition to the war their main focus. Of these organizations, the Bay Area Coalition Against the War was the biggest and most significant. One of the major reasons leading to their significance was that the BAACAW was \"highly organized, holding biweekly ninety-minute meetings of the Coordinating Committee at which each regional would submit detailed reports and action plans.\" The driving force behind their formation was their anger at \"the bombing of Hanoi and the mining of Haiphong Harbor.\" Another aspect of the group's prevalence was the support of the Japanese Community Youth Center, members of the Asian Community Center, student leaders of Asian American student unions, etc. who stood behind it. The BAACAW members consisted of many Asians Americans and they were involved in antiwar efforts like marches, study groups, fundraisers, teach-ins and demonstrations. During marches, Asian American activists carried banners that read \"Stop the Bombing of Asian People and Stop Killing Our Asian Brothers and Sisters.\" Its newsletter stated, \"our goal is to build a solid, broad-based anti-imperialist movement of Asian people against the war in Vietnam.\"\n\nThe anti-war sentiment by Asian Americans was fueled by the racial inequality that they faced in the United States. As historian Daryl Maeda notes, \"the antiwar movement articulated Asian Americans' racial commonality with Vietnamese people in two distinctly gendered ways: identification based on the experiences of male soldiers and identification by women.\" Asian American soldiers in the U.S. military were many times classified as being like the enemy. They were referred to as gooks and had a racialized identity in comparison to their non-Asian counterparts. There was also the hypersexualization of Vietnamese women which in turn affected how Asian American women in the military were treated. \"In a Gidra article, [a prominent influential newspaper of the Asian American movement], Evelyn Yoshimura noted that the U.S. military systematically portrayed Vietnamese women as prostitutes as a way of dehumanizing them.\" Asian American groups realized in order to extinguish racism, they also had to address sexism as well. This in turn led to women's leadership in the Asian American antiwar movement. Patsy Chan, a \"Third World\" activist, said at an antiwar rally in San Francisco, \"We, as Third World women [express] our militant solidarity with our brothers and sisters from Indochina. We, as Third World people know of the struggle the Indochinese are waging against imperialism, because we share that common enemy in the United States.\" Some other notable figures were Grace Lee Boggs and Yuri Kochiyama. Both Boggs and Kochiyama were inspired by the civil rights movement of the 1960s and \"a growing number of Asian Americans began to push forward a new era in radical Asian American politics.\"\n\nMuch Asian-Americans spoke against the war because of the way that the Vietnamese were referred within the U.S. military by the disparaging term \"gook\", and more generally because they encountered bigotry because they looked like \"the enemy\". One Japanese-American veteran, Norman Nakamura, wrote in an article in the June/July issue of \"Gidra\", that during his tour of duty in Vietnam of 1969-70 that there was an atmosphere of systematic racism towards all Vietnamese people, who were seen as less than human, being merely \"gooks\". Because most white Americans did not make much effort to distinguish between Chinese-Americans, Japanese-Americans, Korean-Americans, and Filipino-Americans, the anti-Asian racism generated by the war led to the emergence of a pan-Asian American identity. Another Japanese-American veteran, Mike Nakayama, reported to \"Gidra\" in 1971 that he was wounded in Vietnam, he was initially refused medical treatment because he was seen as a \"gook\" with the doctors thinking that he was a South Vietnamese soldier (who were clothed in American uniforms), and only when he established that he spoke English as his first language that he was recognized as an American. In May 1972, \"Gidra\" ran on its cover a cartoon of a female Viet Cong guerrilla being faced with an Asian-American soldier who is commanded by his white officer to \"Kill that gook, you gook!\".\n\nThere were also Asian American musicians who traveled around the United States to oppose the imperialist actions of the American government, specifically their involvement in Vietnam. \"The folk trio 'A Grain of Sand' ... [ consisting of the members] JoAnne 'Nobuko' Miyamoto, Chris Iijima, and William 'Charlie' Chin, performed across the nation as traveling troubadours who set the antiracist politics of the Asian American movement to music.\" This band was so against the imperialistic actions of the United States, that they supported the Vietnamese people vocally through their song 'War of the Flea'. Asian American poets and playwrights also joined in unity with the movement's antiwar sentiments. Melvyn Escueta created the play 'Honey Bucket' and was an Asian American veteran of the war. Through this play, \"Escueta establishes equivalencies between his protagonist, a Filipino American soldier named Andy, and the Vietnamese people.\"\n\n\"The Asian American antiwar movement emerged from a belief that the mainstream peace movement was racist in its disregard to Asians ... Steve Louie remembers that while the white antiwar movement had 'this moral thing about no killing,' Asian Americans sought to bring attention to 'a bigger issue ... genocide.' ... the broader movement had a hard time with the Asian movement ... because it broadened the issues out beyond where they wanted to go ... the whole question of U.S. imperialism as a system, at home and abroad.\"\n\nThe clergy, often a forgotten group during the opposition to the Vietnam War, played a large role as well. The clergy covered any of the religious leaders and members including individuals such as Martin Luther King Jr. In his speech \"Beyond Vietnam\" King stated, \"the greatest purveyor of violence in the world today: my own government. For the sake of those boys, for the sake of this government, for the sake of the hundreds of thousands trembling under our violence, I cannot be silent.\" King was not looking for racial equality through this speech, but tried to voice for an end to the war instead.\n\nThe involvement of the clergy did not stop at King though. The analysis entitled \"Social Movement Participation: Clergy and the Anti-Vietnam War Movement\" expands upon the anti-war movement by taking King, a single religious figurehead, and explaining the movement from the entire clergy's perspective. The clergy were often forgotten though throughout this opposition. The analysis refers to that fact by saying, \"The research concerning clergy anti-war participation is even more barren than the literature on student activism.\" There is a relationship and correlation between theology and political opinions and during the Vietnam War, the same relationship occurred between feelings about the war and theology. This article basically was a social experiment finding results on how the pastors and clergy members reacted to the war. Based on the results found, they most certainly did not believe in the war and wished to help end it.\n\nAnother source, \"Lift Up Your Voice Like A Trumpet: White Clergy And The Civil Rights And Antiwar Movements, 1954–1973\" explains the story of the entire spectrum of the clergy and their involvement. Michael Freidland is able to completely tell the story in his chapter entitled, \"A Voice of Moderation: Clergy and the Anti-War Movement: 1966–1967\". In basic summary, each specific clergy from each religion had their own view of the war and how they dealt with it, but as a whole, the clergy was completely against the war.\n\nMomentum from the protest organizations and the war's impact on the environment became focal point of issues to an overwhelmingly main force for the growth of an environmental movement in the United States. Many of the environment-oriented demonstrations were inspired by Rachel Carson's 1962 book \"Silent Spring\", which warned of the harmful effects of pesticide use on the earth. For demonstrators, Carson's warnings paralleled with the United States' use of chemicals in Vietnam such as Agent Orange, a chemical compound which was used to clear forestry being used as cover, initially conducted by the United States Air Force in Operation Ranch Hand in 1962.\n\nProtest to American participation in the Vietnam War was a movement that many popular musicians appropriated, which was a stark contrast to the pro-war compositions of artists during World War II. These musicians included Joni Mitchell, Joan Baez, Phil Ochs, Lou Harrison, Gail Kubik, William Mayer, Elie Siegmeister, Robert Fink, David Noon, Richard Wernick, and John W. Downey. However, of over 5,000 Vietnam War-related songs identified to date, many took a patriotic, pro-government, or pro-soldier perspective. The two most notable genres involved in this protest were Rock and Roll and Folk music. While composers created pieces affronting the war, they were not limited to their music. Often protesters were being arrested and participating in peace marches and popular musicians were among their ranks. This concept of intimate involvement reached new heights in May 1968 when the \"Composers and Musicians for Peace\" concert was staged in New York. As the war continued, and with the new media coverage, the movement snowballed and popular music reflected this. As early as the summer of 1965, music-based protest against the American involvement in Southeast Asia began with works like P. F. Sloan's folk rock song \"Eve of Destruction\", recorded by Barry McGuire as one of the earliest musical protests against the Vietnam War. \n\nA key figure on the rock end of the antiwar spectrum was Jimi Hendrix (1942–1970). Hendrix had a huge following among the youth culture exploring itself through drugs and experiencing itself through rock music. He was not an official protester of the war; one of Hendrix's biographers contends that Hendrix, being a former soldier, sympathized with the anticommunist view. He did, however, protest the violence that took place in the Vietnam War. With the song \"Machine Gun\", dedicated to those fighting in Vietnam, this protest of violence is manifest. David Henderson, author of \"'Scuse Me While I Kiss the Sky\", describes the song as \"scary funk ... his sound over the drone shifts from a woman's scream, to a siren, to a fighter plane diving, all amid Buddy Miles' Gatling-gun snare shots. ... he says 'evil man make me kill you ... make you kill me although we're only families apart.'\" This song was often accompanied with pleas from Hendrix to bring the soldiers back home and cease the bloodshed. While Hendrix's views may not have been analogous to the protesters, his songs became anthems to the antiwar movement. Songs such as \"Star Spangled Banner\" showed individuals that \"you can love your country, but hate the government.\" Hendrix's anti-violence efforts are summed up in his words: \"when the power of love overcomes the love of power ... the world will know peace.\" Thus, Hendrix's personal views did not coincide perfectly with those of the antiwar protesters; however, his anti-violence outlook was a driving force during the years of the Vietnam War even after his death (1970).\n\nThe song known to many as the anthem of the protest movement was The \"Fish\" Cheer/I-Feel-Like-I'm-Fixin'-to-Die Rag—first released on an EP in the October 1965 issue of \"Rag Baby\"—by Country Joe and the Fish, one of the most successful protest bands. Although this song was not on music charts probably because it was too radical, it was performed at many public events including the famous Woodstock music festival (1969). \"Feel-Like-I'm-Fixin'-To-Die Rag\" was a song that used sarcasm to communicate the problems with not only the war but also the public's naïve attitudes towards it. It was said that \"the happy beat and insouciance of the vocalist are in odd juxtaposition to the lyrics that reinforce the sad fact that the American public was being forced into realizing that Vietnam was no longer a remote place on the other side of the world, and the damage it was doing to the country could no longer be considered collateral, involving someone else.\"\n\nAlong with singer-songwriter Phil Ochs, who attended and organized anti-war events and wrote such songs as \"I Ain't Marching Anymore\" and \"The War Is Over\", another key historical figure of the antiwar movement was Bob Dylan. Folk and Rock were critical aspects of counterculture during the Vietnam War both were genres that Dylan would dabble in. His success in writing protest songs came from his pre-existing popularity, as he did not initially intend on doing so. Tor Egil Førland, in his article \"Bringing It All Back Home or Another Side of Bob Dylan: Midwestern Isolationist\", quotes Todd Gitlin, a leader of a student movement at the time, in saying \"Whether he liked it or not, Dylan sang for us. ... We followed his career as if he were singing our songs.\" The anthem \"Blowin' in the Wind\" embodied Dylan's anti-war, pro-civil rights sentiment. To complement \"Blowin' in the Wind\" Dylan's song \"The Times they are A-Changin'\" alludes to a new method of governing that is necessary and warns those who currently participate in government that the change is imminent. Dylan tells the \"senators and congressmen [to] please heed the call.\" Dylan's songs were designed to awaken the public and to cause a reaction. The protesters of the Vietnam War identified their cause so closely with the artistic compositions of Dylan that Joan Baez and Judy Collins performed \"The Times they are A-Changin'\" at a march protesting the Vietnam War (1965) and also for President Johnson. While Dylan renounced the idea of subscribing to the ideals of one individual, his feelings of protest towards Vietnam were appropriated by the general movement and they \"awaited his gnomic yet oracular pronouncements\", which provided a guiding aspect to the movement as a whole.\n\nJohn Lennon, former member of the Beatles, did most of his activism in his solo career with wife Yoko Ono. Given his immense fame due to the success of the Beatles, he was a very prominent movement figure with the constant media and press attention. Still being proactive on their honeymoon, the newlyweds controversially held a sit-in, where they sat in bed for a week answering press questions. They held numerous sit-ins, one where they first introduced their song \"Give Peace a Chance\". Lennon and Ono's song overshadowed many previous held anthems, as it became known as the ultimate anthem of peace in the 1970s, with their words \"all we are saying ... is give peace a chance\" being sung globally. \"[McCormick, Anita Louise. The Vietnam Antiwar Movement in American History. Berkeley Heights, New Jersey: Enslow, 2000. Print.]\"\n\nWithin the United States military various soldiers would organize to avoid military duties and individual actors would also carry out their own acts of resistance.\n\nThere was a great deal of civic unrest on college campuses throughout the 1960s as students became increasingly involved in the Civil Rights Movement, Second Wave Feminism, and anti-war movement. Doug McAdam explains the success of the mass mobilization of volunteers for Freedom Summer in terms of \"Biographical Availability\", where individuals must have a certain degree of social, economic, and psychological freedom to be able to participate in large scale social movements. This explanation can also be applied to the Anti-War Movement because it occurred around the same time and the same biographical factors applied to the college-aged anti-war protesters. David Meyers (2007) also explains how the concept of personal efficacy affects mass movement mobilization. For example, according to Meyers' thesis, consider that American wealth increased drastically after World War II. At this time, America was a superpower and enjoyed great affluence after thirty years of depression, war, and sacrifice. Benjamin T. Harrison (2000) argues that the post World War II affluence set the stage for the protest generation in the 1960s. His central thesis is that the World Wars and Great Depression spawned a 'beat generation' refusing to conform to mainstream American values which lead to the emergence of the [Hippies] and the counterculture. The Anti-war movement became part of a larger protest movement against the traditional American Values and attitudes. Meyers (2007) builds off this claim in his argument that the \"relatively privileged enjoy the education and affirmation that afford them the belief that they might make a difference.\" As a result of the present factors in terms of affluence, biographical availability (defined in the sociological areas of activism as the lack of restrictions on social relationships of which most likely increases the consequences of participating in a social movement), and increasing political atmosphere across the county, political activity increased drastically on college campuses.\n\nCollege enrollment reached 9 million by the end of the 1960s. Colleges and universities in America had more students than ever before, and these institutions often tried to restrict student behavior to maintain order on the campuses. To combat this, many college students became active in causes that promoted free speech, student input in the curriculum, and an end to archaic social restrictions. Students joined the antiwar movement because they did not want to fight in a foreign civil war that they believed did not concern them or because they were morally opposed to all war. Others disliked the war because it diverted funds and attention away from problems in the U.S. Intellectual growth and gaining a liberal perspective at college caused many students to become active in the antiwar movement. Another attractive feature of the opposition movement was the fact that it was a popular social event. \nMost student antiwar organizations were locally or campus-based, including chapters of the very loosely co-ordinated Students for a Democratic Society, because they were easier to organize and participate in than national groups. Common antiwar demonstrations for college students featured attempts to sever ties between the war machine and universities through burning draft cards, protesting universities furnishing grades to draft boards, and protesting military and Dow Chemical job fairs on campus. From 1969 to 1970, student protesters attacked 197 ROTC buildings on college campuses. Protests grew after the Kent State shootings, radicalizing more and more students. Although the media often portrayed the student antiwar movement as aggressive and widespread, only 10% of the 2500 colleges in the United States had violent protests throughout the Vietnam War years. By the early 1970s, most student protest movements died down due to President Nixon's de-escalation of the war, the economic downturn, and disillusionment with the powerlessness of the antiwar movement.\nWomen were a large part of the antiwar movement, even though they were sometimes relegated to second-class status within the organizations or faced sexism within opposition groups. Some leaders of anti-war groups viewed women as sex objects or secretaries, not actual thinkers who could contribute positively and tangibly to the group's goals, or believed that women could not truly understand and join the antiwar movement because they were unaffected by the draft. Women involved in opposition groups disliked the romanticism of the violence of both the war and the antiwar movement that was common amongst male war protesters. Despite the inequalities, participation in various antiwar groups allowed women to gain experience with organizing protests and crafting effective antiwar rhetoric. These newfound skills combined with their dislike of sexism within the opposition movement caused many women to break away from the mainstream antiwar movement and create or join women's antiwar groups, such as Another Mother for Peace, Women's International League for Peace and Freedom (WILPF), and Women Strike for Peace (WSP), also known as Women For Peace. Female soldiers serving in Vietnam joined the movement to battle the war and sexism, racism, and the established military bureaucracy by writing articles for antiwar and antimilitary newspapers.\n\nMothers and older generations of women joined the opposition movement, as advocates for peace and people opposed to the effects of the war and the draft on the generation of young men. These women saw the draft as one of the most disliked parts of the war machine and sought to undermine the war itself through undermining the draft. Another Mother for Peace and WSP often held free draft counseling centers to give young men legal and illegal methods to oppose the draft. Members of Women For Peace showed up at the White House every Sunday for 8 years from 11 to 1 for a peace vigil. Such female antiwar groups often relied on maternalism, the image of women as peaceful caretakers of the world, to express and accomplish their goals. The government often saw middle-aged women involved in such organizations as the most dangerous members of the opposition movement because they were ordinary citizens who quickly and efficiently mobilized.\n\nMany women in America sympathized with the Vietnamese civilians affected by the war and joined the opposition movement. They protested the use of napalm, a highly flammable jelly weapon created by the Dow Chemical Company and used as a weapon during the war, by boycotting Saran Wrap, another product made by the company.\n\nFaced with the sexism sometimes found in the antiwar movement, New Left, and Civil Rights Movement, some women created their own organizations to establish true equality of the sexes. Some of frustrations of younger women became apparent during the antiwar movement: they desired more radical change and decreased acceptance of societal gender roles than older women activists. Female activists' disillusion with the antiwar movement led to the formation of the Women's Liberation Movement to establish true equality for American women in all facets of life.\n\nIn October 1967 the Senate Foreign Relations Committee held hearings on resolutions urging President Johnson to request an emergency session of the United Nations security council to consider proposals for ending the war.\n\nIn January 1971, just weeks into his first term, Congressman Ron Dellums set up a Vietnam war crimes exhibit in an annex to his Congressional office. The exhibit featured four large posters depicting atrocities committed by American soldiers embellished with red paint. This was followed shortly thereafter by four days of hearings on \"war crimes\" in Vietnam, which began April 25. Dellums, assisted by the Citizens Commission of Inquiry, had called for formal investigations into the allegations, but Congress chose not to endorse these proceedings. As such, the hearings were \"ad hoc\" and only informational in nature. As a condition of room use, press and camera presence were not permitted, but the proceedings were transcribed.\n\nIn addition to [Ron Dellums] (Dem-CA), an additional 19 Congressional representatives took part in the hearings, including: Bella Abzug (Dem-NY), Shirley Chisholm (Dem-NY), Patsy Mink (Dem-HI), Parren Mitchell (Dem-MD), John Conyers (Dem-MI), Herman Badillo (Dem-NY), James Abourezk (Dem-SD), Leo Ryan (Dem-CA), Phil Burton (Dem-CA), Don Edwards (Dem-CA), Pete McCloskey (Rep-CA), Ed Koch (Dem-NY), John Seiberling (Dem-OH), Henry Reuss (Dem-WI), Benjamin Stanley Rosenthal (Dem-NY), Robert Kastenmeier (Dem-WI), and Abner J. Mikva (Dem-IL).\n\nThe transcripts describe alleged details of U.S. military's conduct in Vietnam. Some tactics were described as \"gruesome\", such as the severing of ears from corpses to verify body count. Others involved the killing of civilians. Soldiers claimed to have ordered artillery strikes on villages which did not appear to have any military presence. Soldiers were claimed to use racist terms such as \"gooks\", \"dinks\" and \"slant eyes\" when referring to the Vietnamese.\n\nWitnesses described that legal, by-the-book instruction was augmented by more questionable training by non-commissioned officers as to how soldiers should conduct themselves. One witness testified about \"free-fire zones\", areas as large as in which soldiers were free to shoot any Vietnamese they encountered after curfew without first making sure they were hostile. Allegations of exaggeration of body count, torture, murder and general abuse of civilians and the psychology and motivations of soldiers and officers were discussed at length.\n\nIn April and May 1971, the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, chaired by Senator J. William Fulbright, held a series of 22 hearings (referred to as the Fulbright Hearings) on proposals relating to ending the war. On the third day of the hearings, April 22, 1971, future Senator and 2004 presidential candidate John Kerry became the first Vietnam veteran to testify before Congress in opposition to the war. Speaking on behalf of Vietnam Veterans Against the War, he argued for the immediate, unilateral withdrawal of U.S. forces from Vietnam. During nearly two hours of discussions with committee members, Kerry related in some detail the findings of the Winter Soldier Investigation, in which veterans had described personally committing or witnessing atrocities and war crimes.\n\nThe opposition to the United States' involvement in the Vietnam War had many effects, which arguably led to the eventual end of the involvement of the United States. Howard Zinn, a controversial historian, states in his book \"A People's History of the United States\" that, \"in the course of the war, there developed in the United States the greatest antiwar movement the nation had ever experienced, a movement that played a critical role in bringing the war to an end.\"\n\nA alternative point of view is expressed by Michael Lind. Citing public polling data on protests during the war he claimed that: \"The American public turned against the Vietnam War not because it was persuaded by the radical and liberal left that it was unjust, but out of sensitivity to its rising costs.\"\n\nThe first effect the opposition had that led to the end of the war was that fewer soldiers were available for the army. The draft was protested and even ROTC programs too. Howard Zinn first provides a note written by a student of Boston University on May 1, 1968, which stated to his draft board, \"I have absolutely no intention to report for that exam, or for induction, or to aid in any way the American war effort against the people of Vietnam ...\" The opposition to the United States' involvement in the Vietnam War had many effects, which led to the eventual end of the involvement of the United States. This refusal letter soon led to an overflow of refusals ultimately leading to the event provided by Zinn stating, \"In May 1969 the Oakland induction center, where draftees reported from all of Northern California, reported that of 4,400 men ordered to report for induction, 2,400 did not show up. In the first quarter of 1970 the Selective Service System, for the first time, could not meet its quota.\"\n\nThe fewer numbers of soldiers as an effect of the opposition to the war also can be traced to the protests against the ROTC programs in colleges. Zinn argues this by stating, \"Student protests against the ROTC resulted in the canceling of those programs in over forty colleges and universities. In 1966, 191,749 college students enrolled in ROTC. By 1973, the number was 72,459.\" The number of ROTC students in college drastically dropped and the program lost any momentum it once had before the anti-war movement.\n\nA further effect of the opposition was that many college campuses were completely shut down due to protests. These protests led to wear on the government who tried to mitigate the tumultuous behavior and return the colleges back to normal. The colleges involved in the anti-war movement included ones such as, Brown University, Kent State University, and the University of Massachusetts. Even at The College of William and Mary unrest occurred with protests by the students and even some faculty members that resulted in \"multiple informants\" hired to report to the CIA on the activities of students and faculty members. At the University of Massachusetts, \"The 100th Commencement of the University of Massachusetts yesterday was a protest, a call for peace\", \"Red fists of protest, white peace symbols, and blue doves were stenciled on black academic gowns, and nearly every other senior wore an armband representing a plea for peace.\" Additionally, \"At Boston College, a Catholic institution, six thousand people gathered that evening in the gymnasium to denounce the war.\" At Kent State University, \"on May 4, when students gathered to demonstrate against the war, National Guardsmen fired into the crowd. Four students were killed.\" Finally, \"At the Brown University commencement in 1969, two-thirds of the graduating class turned their backs when Henry Kissinger stood up to address them.\" Basically, from all of the evidence here provided by the historians, Zinn and McCarthy, the second effect was very prevalent and it was the uproar at many colleges and universities as an effect of the opposition to the United States' involvement in Vietnam.\n\nAnother effect the opposition to the war had was that the American soldiers in Vietnam began to side with the opposition and feel remorse for what they were doing. Zinn argues this with an example in which the soldiers in a POW camp formed a peace committee as they wondered who the enemy of the war was, because it certainly was not known among them. The statement of one of the soldiers reads,\n\nUntil we got to the first camp, we didn't see a village intact; they were all destroyed. I sat down and put myself in the middle and asked myself: Is this right or wrong? Is it right to destroy villages? Is it right to kill people en masse? After a while it just got to me.\n\nHoward Zinn provides that piece of evidence to reiterate how all of this destruction and fighting against an enemy that seems to be unknown has been taking a toll on the soldiers and that they began to sense a feeling of opposition as one effect of the opposition occurring in the United States.\n\n\n\n\nThe protest on June 23 in Los Angeles is singularly significant. It was one of the first massive war protests in the United States and the first in Los Angeles. Ending in a clash with riot police, it set a pattern for the massive protests which followed and due to the size and violence of this event, Johnson attempted no further public speeches in venues outside military bases.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe American public's support of the Vietnam War decreased as the war continued on. As public support decreased, opposition grew.\n\nThe Gallup News Service began asking the American public whether it was a \"mistake to send troops to Vietnam\" in August 1965. At the time less than a quarter of Americans polled, 24%, believed it was a mistake to send troops to Vietnam while 60% of Americans polled believed the opposite. Three years later, in September 1968, 54% of Americans polled believed it was a mistake to send troops to Vietnam while 37% believed it was not a mistake.\n\nA 1965 Gallup Poll asked the question, \"Have you ever felt the urge to organize or join a public demonstration about something?\" Positive responses were quite low; not many people wanted to protest anything, and those who did want to show a public demonstration often wanted to demonstrate in support of the Vietnam War. However, when the American Public was asked in 1990, \"Looking back, do you wish that you had made a stronger effort to protest or demonstrate against the Vietnam War, or not\", 25 percent said they wished they had.\n\nA major factor in the American public's disapproval of the Vietnam War came from the casualties being inflicted on US forces. In a Harris poll from 1967 asking what aspect most troubled people most about the Vietnam war the plurality answer of 31% was \"the loss of our young men.\" A separate 1967 Harris poll asked the American public,\"How has the war affected your own family, job or financial life?\" The majority of respondents, 55%, said that it had had no effect on their lives. Of the 45% who indicated the war had affected their lives, 32% listed inflation as the most important factor, while 25% listed casualties inflicted.\n\nAs the war continued, the public became much more opposed to the war, seeing that it was not ending. In a poll from December 1967, 71% of the public believed the war would not be settled in 1968. A year later the same question was asked and 55% of people did not think the war would be settled in 1969.\n\nWhen the American public was asked about the Vietnam-era Anti-War movement in the 1990s, 39% of the public said they approved, while 39% said they disapproved. The last 22% were unsure.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1854612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854612", "title": "Casper: A Spirited Beginning", "text": "Casper: A Spirited Beginning\n\nCasper: A Spirited Beginning is a 1997 American direct-to-video fantasy family comedy film based on the Harvey Comics cartoon character Casper the Friendly Ghost. It is a prequel/spin-off to the 1995 film \"Casper\", giving more details to Casper's origin. The film is produced by The Harvey Entertainment Company and Saban Entertainment and released by 20th Century Fox Home Entertainment on September 9, 1997 after the company's acquisition of the character from Universal. The original VHS release included the US version of the music video for 911's \"Love Sensation\" as a special feature which has been omitted from the subsequent DVD releases. The soundtrack album was released on CD and cassette on October 24, 1997.\n\nIn a ghost train where spirits are heading towards the Ghost Central, Casper is unaware of where he is, while also unaware that he is a ghost himself. He gets kicked off the train and finds himself in the city of Deedstown, where he unintentionally scares a bunch of the town's citizens, which leads him to the realization that he is in fact a ghost.\n\nMeanwhile, a loner boy named Chris Carson, with a passionate obsession of the supernatural, has a strained relationship with his work-obsessed father Tim Carson, who is attempting to demolish the Applegate Mansion, to make way for a new renovation for the town: building a brand new mini-mall in its place. However, a group of protestors are against the demolition, as the house is considered a historical landmark. The protest was cut short when the wrecking crew that Tim hired and protestors were terrorized by the Ghostly Trio, Stretch, Fatso and Stinkie, who are in possession of the Mansion. Chris witnessed this after seeing the group running in panic, and wants to join the Trio, but they refuse since he is only human.\n\nThe train that Casper was on arrives in Ghost Central run by the evil ghoul Kibosh, where new spirits are trained to learn the proper ghost lifestyle and work to receive a haunting license. After discovering Casper's absent, Kibosh becomes furious about the idea of letting a rookie ghost being let loose without any education and forces his spineless assistant Snivel to find Casper and bring him back.\n\nBack at Deedstown, Chris's teacher, Sheila Fistergraff, who leads the protesters, witness in the news that Tim and Mayor Johnny Hunt will proceed with the demolition project as planned, despite the setbacks, after the mayor threatens to fire Tim if he fails. \nChris runs into Casper, and instantly befriends him, much to Casper's surprise due to seeing that a human is not afraid of him. Chris insists on teaching Casper to be a real ghost while also introducing him to the Trio. Much to the Trio's delight, they discover that Casper has not gone to the Ghost Central and has therefore never been educated by Kibosh, which gives them the opportunity to train Casper and prove themselves to Kibosh, so he would stop pursuing them. However, they are unknowingly eavesdropped on by Snivel, who informs Kibosh of their plan, much to Kibosh's rage. Casper manages to succeed in his first lesson in going into the stealth mode (going invisible), but fails at every other lesson, leading the Trio to realize that Casper is too soft to be a terrifying ghost: he wants to be friendly, which forces them to kick him out.\n\nAfter a night of waiting for his father's arrival at his school's open house, Chris gets disappointed that he never showed up as Fistergraff tries to comfort and support Chris. The next morning, Tim decides to make it up to him by spending more time with him that night. Chris offers to teach Casper to become a better ghost after Casper informed him on what happened. Casper manages to succeed by using his powers on a bully named Brock getting him into trouble with the principal, and so he tests his new powers by using them to help people.\n\nTim is unable to attend a parent-teacher conference he and Chris planned earlier, but Chris hopes his father will remember their other plans, and with Casper's help, sets up dinner for Tim's arrival, Snivel sees Casper acting like a servant to a human and leaves to report back to Kibosh, to which Kibosh prepares to retrieve Casper himself. The Ghostly Trio discover Casper's good deeds and abduct him in attempt to save their reputation, which unfortunately ruins Chris' opportunity to have Tim meet Casper as Tim does not believe Chris, and instead leaves to visit the mayor. Chris runs away, feeling betrayed by Casper, but gets captured and locked inside the mansion by Brock and his gang out of retaliation, unaware that a bomb has been planted inside by Bill Case, a professional bomber hired by Tim to blow up the mansion.\n\nThe next morning, Kibosh arrives in Deedstown, captures The Trio, and sends Snivel to find Casper, who fled the Trio the night before. After discovering that Chris ran away, Tim meets Casper, and they both set out to find him, with Casper assuming that he is in the Applegate Mansion, which is about to explode, so Tim hitches a ride with Fistergraff as Casper arrives at the mansion to find Chris, and try to help him escape. Tim manages to get Chris out and Casper eats the bomb, which explodes in his stomach, saving the mansion.\n\nWith Kibosh being impressed with Casper's technique, Casper informs him that the Ghostly Trio taught him how to do it, so Kibosh decides to let Trio stay and haunt, which led to The Trio returning Casper the favor by lying to Kibosh saying that they are Casper's uncles, after Kibosh informs them the importance of family, which allows Casper to stay with his \"uncles\" and Kibosh to leave them in peace. Chris and his father reconcile and Brock and his gang get their comeuppance when the Trio hangs them from the branches of a nearby tree by their underwear. Casper decides to go with a new name: Casper the Friendly Ghost.\n\n\n\n\"Casper: A Spirited Beginning\" received an extremely negative reaction from film critics. Based on 5 reviews on review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes, 0% of critics gave the film a positive review, with an average rating of 2.2/10.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1854613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854613", "title": "De Beque Canyon", "text": "De Beque Canyon\n\nDe Beque Canyon is a narrow canyon on the Colorado River in western Colorado in the United States. It is approximately 15 miles (24 km) long, located on the river downstream from the town of De Beque, in eastern Mesa County. The canyon forms a narrow passage where the river passes along the western end of the Grand Mesa. At its lower end, the canyon opens out on the eastern end of the Grand Valley at the town of Palisade, approximately 10 miles (16 km) east of Grand Junction. Interstate 70 follows the river through the canyon.\n\nGeologically the canyon walls are stairstep cliffs of Mesaverde Group, shoreline sands deposited during the Cretaceous. The sedimentary rock layers contain several low-sulfur coal seams that thicken to as much as 50 feet (15 m) at the Cameo Mine near Mile 46 on Interstate 70. The coal is typically soft bituminous coal, since it has never been compressed by overlying rocks to the degree that would be required to form harder coal.\n\n"}
{"id": "1854625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854625", "title": "Brevet (military)", "text": "Brevet (military)\n\nIn many of the world's military establishments, a brevet ( or ) was a warrant giving a commissioned officer a higher rank title as a reward for gallantry or meritorious conduct but without conferring the authority, precedence, or pay of real rank. An officer so promoted was referred to as being brevetted (for example, \"he was brevetted Major General\"). The promotion would be noted in the officer's title (for example, \"Bvt. Maj. Gen. Joshua L. Chamberlain\" or \"Bvt. Col. Arthur MacArthur\").\n\nIt is not to be confused with a Brevet d'état-major in Francophone European military circles, where it is an award, nor should it be confused with temporary commissions.\n\nIn France, a \"brevet\" is a very broad-meaning word which includes every document giving a capacity to a person. For instance, the various military speciality courses, such as military parachutism, are ended by the award of a brevet.\n\nThe more important brevet in the French military is the one of the École de guerre, the French Staff College. Between 1870 and 1940, an \"officier breveté\" was a graduate of the \"École supérieure de guerre\". Nowadays, while many officers still attend the école de guerre, they do not use the term \"officier breveté\".\n\nThe French military does not use brevets to give officers a higher standing. It uses instead temporary commissions. As an example, Charles de Gaulle was promoted \"provisional brigadier general\" (\"général de brigade à titre provisoire\") in 1940 when he was .\n\nIn the Prussian and German army and navy, it was possible to bestow a \"Charakter\" rank on officers that was in many respects similar to a brevet rank. For example, an \"Oberst\" could receive the \"Charakter als Generalmajor\". Very often, German officers would be promoted to the next higher \"Charakter\" rank on the day of their retirement.\nIt was not uncommon during the 19th century to distinguish between \"empleo\" (\"employed\") rank and \"graduación\" (\"grade\") being the effective command position. In the 1884 rank regulations (which with minor modifications were in force during the Spanish–American War) stars marked the rank whilst the actual post was reflected in gold lace on the cuffs.\n\nAs in practice both situations coincided the system was dropped in 1908 leaving only the starred system of denoting rank. Nevertheless, during the Spanish Civil War the system was revived in the Nationalist side due to the lack of trained officers because of the enlargement of the army. The breveted officers (known as \"habilitados\" or \"estampillados\") wore their actual rank on the cuffs but their brevetted one in a rectangular black patch on the left breast of their coats or shirts.\nIn the United Kingdom the brevet commission was only by courtesy. Officially, both titles were used, as: \"Major and Brevet Lieutenant Colonel Cornwallis\". Originally the term designated a promotion given on such occasions as a coronation, or the termination of a great war, and had its origin during the reign of King James II (1685–1688); but it was abused so frequently and used to such an extent by the general award of brevet commissions that from 1854, during the Crimean War of 1853–1856 and subsequently, its bestowal was limited strictly to cases of very distinguished service in the field and on the principle of seniority. The British Army confined brevet commissions to ranks from captain to lieutenant-colonel.\n\nThe brevet conferred rank in the British Army overall, but importantly, not in the regiment. Advancement in the regiment could take place generally only by purchase until 1871 or by seniority, with the exception of the Royal Regiment of Artillery and the Royal Engineers where it has never been possible to buy commissions and promotion was based on merit, and when there was a suitable vacancy caused by the death, retirement or promotion of a more senior officer. For an officer on duty with his regiment, only regimental rank counted. If the regiment formed part of a larger formation then brevet rank could be used to determine command of temporary units formed for special purposes.\n\nIn particular brigadier did not become a permanent rank until 1947, so command of brigades was determined by seniority, including by the date of promotion to any brevet rank. Thus it was possible for a regimental major to hold a brevet lieutenant-colonelcy with seniority over the commission of his own commanding officer as lieutenant-colonel and be given command of a brigade, potentially including his own regiment. Similarly, while the officer served in a staff position or as an aide-de-camp, then he could use his brevet rank. Appointment to a brevet also counted towards the requirement to have served for a sufficient time in a lower rank to be eligible for promotion (by purchase) to a more senior one.\n\nThe Articles of War adopted by the United States Army in 1776 and slightly revised in 1806 established the use and significance of brevet ranks or awards in the U.S. Army. When first used, a brevet commission in the U.S. Army entitled the officer to be identified by a higher rank, but the award had limited effect on the right to higher command or pay. A brevet rank had no effect within the officer's current unit. When assigned duty at the brevet rank by the U.S. President, such an officer would command with the brevet rank and be paid at the higher rank.\n\nThis higher command and pay would last only for the duration of that assignment. The brevet promotion would not affect the officer's seniority and actual permanent rank in the army. Beginning on April 16, 1818, brevet commissions also required confirmation by the United States Senate, just as all other varieties of officer commissions did.\n\nBrevets were first used in the U.S. Army during the American Revolutionary War. Often, the nation's Continental Congress could not find suitable positions for foreign officers—mostly from France—who sought commissions. The first U.S. brevet was given to Jacques Antoine de Franchessin on July 20, 1776, allowing him to hold the rank of lieutenant colonel within the Continental Army. Franchessin and another 35 men of foreign birth would hold brevet commissions in the army by the end of the war. By 1784, an additional 50 officers would receive brevets for \"meritorious services\" during the conflict.\n\nIn the 19th-century U.S. Army, brevet promotions were quite common because the army had many frontier forts to garrison and other missions to perform but could not always appoint appropriately ranked officers to command these forts or missions. The U.S. Congress permitted only a limited number of officers of each rank. Thus, an officer of lower rank might receive a brevet commission to a rank more appropriate for his assignment. Also, newly commissioned officers often received brevet rank until authorized positions became available.\n\nFor example, an officer might graduate from West Point and be appointed a brevet second lieutenant until a permanent second lieutenant posting opened up. In early 1861, some recent graduates of West Point temporarily were named brevet second lieutenants because not enough Regular Army officer vacancies were available to give them commissions as regular second lieutenants. In addition to officers being appointed to a brevet rank to temporarily serve in positions designated for higher-ranked officers (i.e., in lieu of promotion to permanent rank), officers might be awarded brevet rank as recognition for gallantry or meritorious service.\n\nDuring the American Civil War, almost all senior officers received some form of brevet award, mainly during the final months of the war. But these awards were made for gallantry or meritorious service, rather than for command. In addition to the authorization in a previous law for awards of brevet ranks to Regular Army officers, an act of Congress of March 3, 1863, authorized the award of brevet rank to officers of the United States Volunteers. Thus, brevet awards became increasingly common later in the war.\n\nSome officers even received more than one award. Because of the existence of both Regular Army and United States Volunteers ranks, and the possibility that an officer could hold actual and brevet ranks in both services, some general and other officers could hold as many as four different ranks simultaneously. For example, by the end of the war, Ranald S. Mackenzie was a brevet major general of volunteers, an actual, full-rank brigadier general of volunteers, a brevet brigadier general in the United States Regular Army, and an actual Regular Army captain.\n\nBrevet rank in the Union Army, whether in the Regular Army or the United States Volunteers, during and at the conclusion of the American Civil War, may be regarded as an honorary title which conferred none of the authority, precedence, nor pay of real or full rank. The vast majority of the Union Army brevet ranks were awarded posthumously or on or as of March 13, 1865, as the war was coming to a close. U.S. Army regulations concerning brevet rank provided that brevet rank could be claimed \"in courts-martial and on detachments, when composed of different corps\" and when the officer served with provisional formations made up of different regiments or companies, or \"on other occasions\". These regulations were vague enough to support the positions of some brevet generals who caused controversies by claiming supposed priorities or privileges of brevet ranks that had been awarded to them at earlier dates during the war.\n\nSome full-rank brigadier generals in the United States Volunteers (USV) in the American Civil War had been awarded brevet brigadier general rank in the USV before receiving full-rank promotions to brigadier general of United States Volunteers. Some full-rank brigadier generals in the USV were awarded the rank of brevet major general in the USV, but were not promoted to full-rank major generals in the USV. Some United States Regular Army officers who served with the USV in ranks below general officer were awarded brevet general officer rank in the USV, but were not promoted to full-rank general officers in the USV.\n\nOn the other hand, at least a few USV general officers also were awarded brevet general officer rank in the Regular Army in addition to their full-rank appointments or brevet general officer awards in the United States Volunteers. Many of the Regular Army officers of lower rank who became full-rank USV generals, however, received neither actual promotions to a general officer rank nor brevet general officer awards in the Regular Army in addition to their USV ranks or awards. Some of them who stayed in the United States Regular Army after the war did achieve general officer rank in later years.\n\nIn addition to the brevet awards to current (or future) full-rank United States Volunteers (USV) generals during the American Civil War, 1,367 other USV officers of lower ranks were awarded the rank of brevet brigadier general, brevet major general, or both, in the United States Volunteers, but not promoted to full-rank USV generals. At least one enlisted man, Private Frederick W. Stowe, was brevetted as a second lieutenant in the Union Army during the Civil War.\n\nThe Confederate States of America had legislation and regulations for the use of brevets in their armed forces, provided by Article 61 of the nation's Articles of War, and by their 1861 \"Army Regulations\", which were based on the U.S. Army's 1857 version of their regulations. Although Article 61 was revised in 1862, it ultimately had no practical effect since the Confederate States Army did not use any brevet commissions or awards during its existence.\n\nThe United States Marine Corps also issued brevets. After officers became eligible for the Medal of Honor, a rare Marine Corps Brevet Medal was issued to living officers who had been brevetted between 1861 and 1915.\n\nThe practice of brevetting disappeared from the (regular) U.S. military at the end of the 19th century; honors were bestowed instead with a series of medals. Brevetting was declared obsolete in 1922. However, the similar practice of frocking continues in four of the five branches of the U.S. armed forces. The U.S. Air Force does not allow the regular practice of frocking before a promotion date, except in rare circumstances, such as when an officer selected for promotion is assigned to a billet (typically a senior joint duty assignment), that requires him or her to hold/wear the higher rank to which he/she is expected to be promoted. Frocking typically requires special approval to be obtained from the service headquarters.\n\nThe promotion of an enlisted person or non-commissioned officer to commissioned officer rank as a reward for displaying leadership and bravery is referred to as a direct appointment rather than a brevet. It temporarily grants the rank of 1st lieutenant. The holder must then attend Officer Candidate School in order to keep the commission. They must also have or acquire a four-year college degree if they wish to be promoted to the rank of captain or above.\n\nThe U.S. National Guard, which depends on the governor of a state to concede its commissions in the Army National Guard and Air National Guard, may still confer brevets. Many states maintain a clause permitting the governor to confer any rank in its defense forces, including the militia and National Guards. Some states provide that the sitting governor may confer any rank, but this appointment is considered valid only for the duration of the governor's own term in office.\n\nSome states also confer brevets as part of their regular honors system. Georgia confers honorary ranks into its state police force. Kentucky is famous for its colonels, and so too is Tennessee, both of which make the appointment as an honorary member of the governor's staff. Alabama, Kentucky, Texas and Nebraska also confer an admiralty within a symbolic navy. Similar honors have been issued for the Georgia Naval Militia, which has existed only on paper since 1908. In all cases these honorary titles may be considered effective brevets, equal to that of the National Guard, by being conferred by a sitting governor.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1854632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854632", "title": "Aircrew brevet", "text": "Aircrew brevet\n\nAn aircrew flying badge (unofficially and incorrectly known as an aircrew brevet – which is actually French for a diploma or certificate) is the badge worn on the left breast, above any medal ribbons, by qualified aircrew in the Royal Air Force, Royal Navy, British Army, Indian Air Force, Pakistan Air Force, Royal Canadian Air Force, Royal Australian Navy, Australian Army, Royal Australian Air Force, Royal New Zealand Air Force, South African Air Force and Sri Lanka Air Force. An example of a real Pilot Brevet (ie. certificate) is as opposite:<onlyinclude>\n\n<section begin=\"content\" />\n\nIn the RAF, the Flying Badge (colloquially referred to as wings or a brevet), is awarded upon the completion of a significant stage of flying training. Aircrew first undertake Elementary Flying Training, and are then streamed to either fast jet, helicopter, RPAS or multi-engine pipelines. The award of wings usually occurs upon completion of the secondary phase of training; for example, in the fast jet stream, wings are awarded upon completion of the Basic Fast Jet Course (BJFT), currently at RAF Linton-on-Ouse; for helicopter pilots, wings are awarded after they complete helicopter training at RAF Shawbury pre-OCU; for RPAS post-FTU (Formal Training Unit) and on the attainment of 'Limited Combat Ready' status, and for multi-engine aircrew, wings are awarded upon completion of their Multi-Engine Advanced Flying Training (MEAFT) training at RAF Cranwell. Aircrew, other than RPAS pilots, are then posted to their Operational Conversion Units having gained their wings, but still have a good deal of training and type familiarisation to complete before they are considered operational or front-line aircrew.\n\n\nLegacy Rear Aircrew who qualified prior to April 2003, wear a single wing with no crown and a letter or letters (denoting speciality) in a brown laurel wreath, however, they may choose to wear the new WSO/WSOP brevet. Legacy brevets still in use in the RAF include: \n\nFor operational flying crew, who are not de facto Aircrew (also known as non-traditional aircrew) who come from ground trades/branches but are assigned to flying duties, they are awarded an airborne specialist brevet upon completion of a bespoke flying training course, which is a half wing, without crown and 2 letters in the centre. This includes:\n\nRAF Catering Stewards assigned to fly as cabin crew on Voyager KC.1, BAe 146 and HS 125 are awarded the \"CC\" (cabin crew) badge. This badge is worn on the right sleeve in the same location as the parachute qualification, has two upturned wings (similar to Royal Navy ratings' aircrewman badges) and has cream stitching for the wings, lettering and laurels. Legacy Cabin Crew who qualified with the former \"AS\" (air steward) badge are still entitled to wear it.\n\nParachute Jumping Instructors (PJIs) are honorary aircrew and wear an open parachute instead of a letter on a half wing.\n\nThere are also a number of obsolete rear aircrew brevets that are no longer in use such as:\n\nThe Royal Navy's Fleet Air Arm has its own wings design, featuring albatross wings instead of the wings of a swift, as per the RAF design. The Fleet Air Arm wings badges also feature a crown and fouled anchor, reflecting the naval aspect of the flying undertaken. They are worn on the left sleeve of naval aviators, above the rank \"rings\" as opposed to on the left breast of uniforms, like the RAF and Army Air Corps. Unlike the RAF and the Army Air Corps, Naval aircrew are awarded their wings after Operational Conversion Unit (OCU), whereupon they are posted to a frontline squadron, the majority of their flying training complete. Therefore, while a Navy and RAF aircrew might take a similar amount of time to reach an operational squadron, the Naval officer has to wait until he has completed his conversion training to receive his wings. \n\nRoyal Naval Observers are awarded their own aircrew brevet, consisting of shorter wings either side of a fouled anchor surmounted by a Crown, upon completion of their OCU, like Royal Navy pilots. \n\nRoyal Naval Aircrewmen are awarded a brevet similar in shape to the Observer wings, with slightly narrower wings and a similar anchor, but with no crown. \n\nAll Royal Navy aircrew wear their wings on the left sleeve of the Number 1 dress uniform jacket, above any rank insignia.\n\nThe Army Air Corps pilot wings are awarded upon completion of the basic helicopter course at RAF Shawbury and a subsequent Army course at Middle Wallop Airfield. Aircrew are then dispatched to their OCU to receive type training on either the Apache attack helicopter or the Wildcat battlefield support helicopter. A small number of Army aircrew are streamed fixed wing to fly the Army's Islander/Defender reconnaissance aircraft, or to become instructors at the Defence Elementary Flying School on the Tutor training aircraft.\n\nThe Army is unique in the British military in that both Officers and Non-Commissioned Officers can become aircrew and aircraft commanders. The wings are identical for both Officers and Other Ranks, and are worn on the left chest above any medals, similar to the RAF.\n\nIn all the services, award of wings does not confer any operational capability – this is declared by a front-line squadron once the student has reached satisfactory standard to allow them to be deployed operationally. This milestone, or 'Combat Ready Status', is the threshold necessary for the award of Flying Pay, a discretionary additional salary bonus for aircrew due to the nature of their work.\n\nRoyal Australian Air Force flying badges differ from those in the RAF mainly in having a crown on all Flying Badges (not just on pilot's wings) and in normally having blue wreaths. The pilot's flying badge has the letters \"RAAF\". A similar twin-wing badge, bearing the Southern Cross, was introduced for officer aircrew in 1998, replacing various single-wing flying badges previously worn by commissioned officers; however NCO aircrew continue to wear the old single-wing badges.\n\nSome RAAF pilots signed a petition in 1998/1999 in protest of non-pilot \"officer aircrew\" receiving a double wing. It was rumoured that some serving navigators and war veterans who had previously held the soon to be abolished 'half' wing agreed with the protest. The petition ultimately had over 10,000 signatures, but in the end the petition was unsuccessful.\n\nNew Zealand uses similar insignia to the United Kingdom, except the pilot's wings bear the letters \"NZ\" instead of \"RAF\" and the single wing of other aircrew still have the letters of the trade they represent. Currently these are air warfare officer and air warfare specialist (both wear AW), air engineer (E), air loadmaster (LM), helicopter loadmaster (HL), flight steward (FS), air ordnanceman (AO), and parachute jump instructor (a parachute). Air electronics operator (AE) and Helicopter crewman (HC) are obsolete.\n\n<section end=content/> \n</onlyinclude>\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1854641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854641", "title": "Kristin Ross", "text": "Kristin Ross\n\nKristin Ross (born 1953) is a professor emeritus of comparative literature at New York University. She is primarily known for her work on French literature and culture of the 19th, 20th, and 21st centuries.\n\nRoss received her Ph.D. from Yale University in 1981 and since then has written a number of books, including \"The Emergence of Social Space: Rimbaud and the Paris Commune\" (1988), \"Fast Cars, Clean Bodies: Decolonization and the Reordering of French Culture\" (1995) and \"May '68 and its Afterlives\" (2002). She edited \"Anti-Americanism\" (2004) with Andrew Ross (no relation). In 2015, her book \"Communal Luxury: The Political Imaginary of the Paris Commune\" appeared.\n\nFor \"Fast Cars, Clean Bodies\", Ross was awarded a Critic's Choice Award and the Lawrence Wylie Award for French Cultural Studies. Professor Ross has also received a Guggenheim Fellowship and a fellowship from the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, New Jersey.\n\nRoss has also translated several works from French including Jacques Ranciere's \"The Ignorant Schoolmaster\". Along with her research interests in French political culture and literature, Ross's work gains its focus through her interest in urban and revolutionary history, theory, politics, ideology and popular culture.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1854647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854647", "title": "Courcouronnes", "text": "Courcouronnes\n\nCourcouronnes is a former commune in the southern suburbs of Paris, France. On 1 January 2019, it was merged into the new commune Évry-Courcouronnes. It is located from the centre of Paris, in the \"new town\" of Évry Ville Nouvelle, created in the 1960s.\n\nThe ruins of a large aqueduct still stand on the outskirts of Courcouronnes. \n\nArianespace, a commercial company that sells the Ariane rockets, is based there. Carrefour's Hypermarket division is based in the city.\n\nAccor was formerly headquartered in Courcouronnes.\n\nThere are the following schools:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1854648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854648", "title": "Encomium: A Tribute to Led Zeppelin", "text": "Encomium: A Tribute to Led Zeppelin\n\nEncomium: A Tribute to Led Zeppelin is a tribute album by various artists dedicated to Led Zeppelin, released by Atlantic Records on March 14, 1995. Many of the appearing artists were signed to Atlantic or an affiliate at the time of the release.\n\nThe Maná track \"Fool in the Rain\" did not appear on the first release of this album and was added in later editions.\n\nThere is also a laserdisc version of this release, containing all 13 tracks (including Maná) and interviews and behind the scenes footage.\n\n"}
{"id": "1854654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854654", "title": "American Academy of Dramatic Arts", "text": "American Academy of Dramatic Arts\n\nThe American Academy of Dramatic Arts (AADA) is a private performing arts conservatory with two locations, one in Manhattan and one in Los Angeles. The Academy offers an associate degree in occupational studies and teaches drama and related arts in the areas of theater, film, and television. Students also have the opportunity to audition for the third-year theater company. Students can usually transfer completed credits to another college or university to finish a bachelor's degree if they choose.\n\nThe oldest acting school in the English-speaking world, the Academy in New York City was founded in 1884 by Franklin Haven Sargent, a graduate of Harvard University and professor of speech and elocution at his alma mater. Sargent's vision was to establish a school to train actors for the stage. Its first home was the original Lyceum Theatre on what is now Park Avenue South. In 1963, the school moved to its current home, a landmark building designed by the American Renaissance architect Stanford White for the Colony Club.\n\nIn 1974, the Academy opened another campus in Pasadena, California, which made it the only professional actor-training school in both major centers of American entertainment. The Los Angeles campus moved from Pasadena to Hollywood in 2001 in a new building next to the site of the former studios of Charlie Chaplin.\n\nThe Academy remains dedicated to training professional actors. It offers a two-year program in which students have to be invited back for the second year. Auditions are held at the end of the second year for the third-year company. As well as training for the theatre, it now offers courses in film and television, providing a structured, professionally oriented program that stresses self-discovery, self-discipline and individuality. Students who graduate in New York receive an Associate of Occupational Studies degree; students who graduate in Hollywood receive a Certificate of Completion or an Associate of Arts degree in acting. Students from New York and Los Angeles can get a Bachelor of Arts degree from selected universities.\n\nNumerous students of the Academy have gone on to careers in the entertainment industry. Alumni of The Academy have been nominated for 110 Oscars, 317 Emmy's and 94 Tony's.\n\nAmong the notable people who attended the AADA are:\nA\nB\n\nC\n\nD\n\nE\n\nF\n\nG\n\nH\n\nI\n\nJ\n\nK\n\nL\n\nM\n\nN\n\nO\n\nP\n\nR\n\nS\n\nT\n\nV\n\nW\n\nZ\n\nNotable faculty include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1854655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854655", "title": "State Farm Center", "text": "State Farm Center\n\nState Farm Center is a large dome-shaped 15,544-seat indoor arena located in Champaign, Illinois, owned and operated by the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. The arena hosts games for the Illinois Fighting Illini men's basketball and women's basketball teams. It also doubles as a performance and event center, and is one of the largest venues between Chicago and St. Louis. It opened in 1963 and was known until 2013 as Assembly Hall until State Farm Insurance acquired naming rights as part of a major renovation project.\n\nThe third largest Illinois arena after the United Center in Chicago and the Allstate Arena in Rosemont, State Farm Center has 15,544 permanent seats but, when portable chairs are placed on the floor for an in-the-round performance, there is a potential for an additional 1,000 depending on the stage configuration.\n\nState Farm Center opened as Assembly Hall on March 2, 1963, and continues to attract attention for its design and construction. From 1963 to 1965 Assembly Hall was the largest dome structure in North America until the opening of the Astrodome in Houston, Texas. The roof is supported by of one-quarter inch steel wire wrapped at the base of the dome under intensive pressure. The architect was Max Abramovitz, a University of Illinois alumnus.\n\nState Farm Center hosts home games of Illinois Fighting Illini men's basketball and Illinois Fighting Illini women's basketball and has earned a reputation as one of the toughest places to play in college basketball, thanks to the student cheering section, the \"Orange Krush,\" which occupies the floor around the court as well as some seats.\n\nAt the annual \"Paint the Hall Orange\" game, everyone in attendance would wear an orange shirt, resulting in an impressive and intimidating environment. In recent years, however, it has become customary for Illini fans to wear orange at all home games and so the official \"PTHO\" game was discontinued after the 2007-08 season.\n\nIn August 2015, prior to the reopening of the newly renovated State Farm Center, the hardwood floor was dedicated and named Lou Henson Court in honor of the Illinois Fighting Illini men's basketball all-time leader in victories Lou Henson.\n\nState Farm Center has hosted a variety of Illinois High School Association events. It has been the home of the state individual wrestling tournament since 1967. From 1963 to 1995, State Farm Center played host to the state finals of the boys' basketball tournament. From 1978 to 1991, it also hosted the IHSA girls' basketball tournament.\n\nState Farm Center is also the venue for the annual WCIA 3 Broadway Series, which features popular musicals such as \"Les Misérables\", \"Miss Saigon\", \"Rent\", and \"Fiddler on the Roof\".\n\nThe largest concerts by attendance thus far are:\nIn the autumn of 2008, school officials, led by Athletics Director Ron Guenther, conducted a study to decide whether to refurbish the then-named Assembly Hall or build a new basketball arena. In 2010, the university opted to renovate the existing structure and selected the architectural firm AECOM to design the renovation. The athletic department sent surveys to I-Fund and season ticket holders to gauge demand for various premium seating options. Architects used this information to create schematic drawings and architectural renderings near the end of 2012, which then Athletics Director Mike Thomas used to aid in fundraising for the project. The anticipated renovation cost was between $150 and $160 million, and construction would not start before spring of 2014. As part of the renovations, State Farm Insurance purchased the naming rights to the arena for $60 million over 30 years.\n\nThe State Farm Center began renovations after the 2013–14 men's basketball season. Work included adding luxury suites, club/loge seating, new blue seats included in the renovation. In the luxury suites and club level seats, there will be concessions where alcoholic beverages will allowed to be served as well as a buffet area. The total budget for the renovation was estimated at $169.5 million.\n\nThe construction process did cause some conflicts with scheduled sporting events at the beginning of the 2015-16 basketball season. The men's basketball team played the first five games of the 2015 at the Prairie Capital Convention Center in Springfield, while the 2015 Women's basketball team played their first five games at Parkland College. The renovated arena hosted its first game on December 2, when the Fighting Illini fell to Notre Dame 84–79. \n\nThe following corporate sponsor, Fighting Illini benefactors, former Illinois Fighting Illini men's basketball players, and University of Illinois at Urbana–Champaign alumni have donated sizeable contributions towards the $169.5 million renovation cost of the State Farm Center.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1854658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854658", "title": "Henson", "text": "Henson\n\nHenson is a surname and a given name.\n\nNotable people with the surname include:\n\nNotable people with the given name include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1854663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854663", "title": "GLIMMER", "text": "GLIMMER\n\nIn bioinformatics, GLIMMER (Gene Locator and Interpolated Markov ModelER) is used to find genes in prokaryotic DNA. \"It is effective at finding genes in bacteria, archea, viruses, typically finding 98-99% of all relatively long protein coding genes\". GLIMMER was the first system that used the interpolated Markov model to identify coding regions. The GLIMMER software is open source and is maintained by Steven Salzberg, Art Delcher, and their colleagues at the \"Center for Computational Biology\" at Johns Hopkins University. The original GLIMMER algorithms and software were designed by Art Delcher, Simon Kasif and Steven Salzberg and applied to bacterial genome annotation in collaboration with Owen White. \n\nFirst Version of GLIMMER \"i.e., GLIMMER 1.0\" was released in 1998 and it was published in the paper \"Microbial gene identification using interpolated Markov model\". Markov models were used to identify microbial genes in GLIMMER 1.0. GLIMMER considers the local composition sequence dependencies which makes GLIMMER more flexible and more powerful when compared to fixed-order Markov model.\n\nThere was a comparison made between interpolated Markov model used by GLIMMER and fifth order Markov model in the paper \"Microbial gene identification using interpolated Markov models\". \"GLIMMER algorithm found 1680 genes out of 1717 annotated genes in Haemophilus influenzae where fifth order Markov model found 1574 genes. GLIMMER found 209 additional genes which were not included in 1717 annotated genes where fifth order Markov model found 104 genes.\"'\n\nSecond Version of GLIMMER i.e., GLIMMER 2.0 was released in 1999 and it was published in the paper \"Improved microbial identification with GLIMMER\". This paper provides significant technical improvements such as using interpolated context model instead of interpolated Markov model and resolving overlapping genes which improves the accuracy of GLIMMER.\n\nInterpolated context models are used instead of interpolated Markov model which gives the flexibility to select any base. In interpolated Markov model probability distribution of a base is determined from the immediate preceding bases. If the immediate preceding base is irrelevant amino acid translation, interpolated Markov model still considers the preceding base to determine the probability of given base where as interpolated context model which was used in GLIMMER 2.0 can ignore irrelevant bases. False positive predictions were increased in GLIMMER 2.0 to reduce the number of false negative predictions. Overlapped genes are also resolved in GLIMMER 2.0.\n\nVarious comparisons between GLIMMER 1.0 and GLIMMER 2.0 were made in the paper \"Improved microbial identification with GLIMMER\" which shows improvement in the later version. \"Sensitivity of GLIMMER 1.0 ranges from 98.4 to 99.7% with an average of 99.1% where as GLIMMER 2.0 has a sensitivity range from 98.6 to 99.8% with an average of 99.3%. GLIMMER 2.0 is very effective in finding genes of high density. The parasite Trypanosoma brucei, responsible for causing African sleeping sickness is being identified by GLIMMER 2.0\" \n\nThird version of GLIMMER, \"GLIMMER 3.0\" was released in 2007 and it was published in the paper \"Identifying bacterial genes and endosymbiont DNA with Glimmer\". This paper describes several major changes made to the GLIMMER system including improved methods to identify coding regions and start codon. Scoring of ORF in GLIMMER 3.0 is done in reverse order i.e., starting from stop codon and moves back towards the start codon. Reverse scanning helps in identifying the coding portion of the gene more accurately which is contained in the context window of IMM. GLIMMER 3.0 also improves the generated training set data by comparing the long-ORF with universal amino acid distribution of widely disparate bacterial genomes.\"GLIMMER 3.0 has an average long-ORF output of 57% for various organisms where as GLIMMER 2.0 has an average long-ORF output of 39%.\"\n\nGLIMMER 3.0 reduces the rate of false positive predictions which were increased in GLIMMER 2.0 to reduce the number of false negative predictions. \"GLIMMER 3.0 has a start-site prediction accuracy of 99.5% for 3'5' matches where as GLIMMER 2.0 has 99.1% for 3'5' matches. GLIMMER 3.0 uses a new algorithm for scanning coding regions, a new start site detection module, and architecture which integrates all gene predictions across an entire genome.\"\n\nMinimum description length\n\nThe GLIMMER project helped introduce and popularize the use of variable length models in Computational Biology and Bioinformatics that subsequently have been applied to numerous problems such as protein classification and others. Variable length modeling was originally pioneered by information theorists and subsequently ingeniously applied and popularized in data compression (e.g. Ziv-Lempel compression). Prediction and compression are intimately linked using Minimum Description Length Principles. The basic idea is to create a dictionary of frequent words (motifs in biological sequences). The intuition is that the frequently occurring motifs are likely to be most predictive and informative. In GLIMMER the interpolated model is a mixture model of the probabilities of these relatively common motifs. Similarly to the development of HMMs in Computational Biology, the authors of GLIMMER were conceptually influenced by the previous application of another variant of interpolated Markov models to speech recognition by researchers such as Fred Jelinek (IBM) and Eric Ristad (Princeton). The learning algorithm in GLIMMER is different from these earlier approaches.\n\nGLIMMER can be downloaded from The Glimmer home page (requires a C++ compiler).\nAlternatively, an online version is hosted by NCBI .\n\n\nThe steps explained above describes the basic functionality of GLIMMER. There are various improvements made to GLIMMER and some of them are described in the following sub-sections.\n\nGLIMMER system consists of two programs. First program called build-imm, which takes an input set of sequences and outputs the interpolated Markov model as follows.\n\nThe probability for each base i.e., A,C,G,T for all k-mers for 0 ≤ k ≤ 8 is computed. Then, for each k-mer, GLIMMER computes weight. New sequence probability is computed as follows.\n\nformula_1\n\nwhere n is the length of the sequence formula_2 is the oligomer at position x. formula_3, the formula_4-order interpolated Markov model score is computed as\n\nformula_5\n\n\"where formula_6 is the weight of the k-mer at position x-1 in the sequence S and formula_7 is the estimate obtained from the training data of the probability of the base located at position x in the formula_8-order model.\"\n\nThe probability of base formula_2 given the i previous bases is computed as follows.\n\nformula_10\n\n\"The value of formula_11 associated with formula_12 can be regarded as a measure of confidence in the accuracy of this value as an estimate of the true probability. GLIMMER uses two criteria to determine formula_11. The first of these is simple frequency occurrence in which the number of occurrences of context string formula_14 in the training data exceeds a specific threshold value, then formula_11 is set to 1.0. The current default value for threshold is 400, which gives 95% confidence. When there are insufficient sample occurrences of a context string, build-imm employ additional criteria to determine formula_16 value. For a given context string formula_14 of length i, build-imm compare the observed frequencies of the following base formula_18, formula_19, formula_20, formula_21 with the previously calculated interpolated Markov model probabilities using the next shorter context, formula_22, formula_23, formula_24, formula_25. Using a formula_26 test, build-imm determine how likely it is that the four observed frequencies are consistent with the IMM values from the next shorter context.\"\n\nThe second program called glimmer, then uses this IMM to identify putative gene in an entire genome. GLIMMER identifies all the open reading frame which score higher than threshold and check for overlapping genes. Resolving overlapping genes is explained in the next sub-section.\n\nEquations and explanation of the terms used above are taken from the paper 'Microbial gene identification using interpolated Markov models\"\"\n\nIn GLIMMER 1.0, when two genes A and B overlap, the overlap region is scored. If A is longer than B, and if A scores higher on the overlap region, and if moving B's start site will not resolve the overlap, then B is rejected.\n\nGLIMMER 2.0 provided a better solution to resolve the overlap. In GLIMMER 2.0, when two potential genes A and B overlap, the overlap region is scored. Suppose gene A scores higher, four different orientations are considered.\n\nIn the above case, moving of start sites does not remove the overlap. If A is significantly longer than B, then B is rejected or else both A and B are called genes, with a doubtful overlap.\n\nIn the above case, moving of B can resolve the overlap, A and B can be called non overlapped genes but if B is significantly shorter than A, then B is rejected.\n\nIn the above case, moving of A can resolve the overlap. A is only moved if overlap is a small fraction of A or else B is rejected.\n\nIn the above case, both A and B can be moved. We first move the start of B until the overlap region scores higher for B. Then we move the start of A until it scores higher. Then B again, and so on, until either the overlap is eliminated or no further moves can be made.\n\nThe above example has been taken from the paper 'Identifying bacterial genes and endosymbiont DNA with Glimmer\"\"\n\nRibosome binding site(RBS) signal can be used to find true start site position. GLIMMER results are passed as an input for RBSfinder program to predict ribosome binding sites. GLIMMER 3.0 integrates RBSfinder program into gene predicting function itself.\n\nELPH software( which was determined as highly effective at identifying RBS in the paper) is used for identifying RBS and is available at this website. Gibbs sampling algorithm is used to identify shared motif in any set of sequences. This shared motif sequences and their length is given as input to ELPH. ELPH then computes the position weight matrix(PWM) which will be used by GLIMMER 3 to score any potential RBS found by RBSfinder. The above process is done when we have a substantial amount of training genes. If there are inadequate number of training genes, GLIMMER 3 can bootstrap itself to generate a set of gene predictions which can be used as input to ELPH. ELPH now computes PWM and this PWM can be again used on the same set of genes to get more accurate results for start-sites. This process can be repeated for many iterations to obtain more consistent PWM and gene prediction results.\n\nGlimmer supports genome annotation efforts on a wide range of bacterial, archaeal, and viral species. In a large-scale reannotation effort at the DNA Data Bank of Japan (DDBJ, which mirrors Genbank). Kosuge \"et al.\" (2006) examined the gene finding methods used for 183 genomes. They reported that of these projects, Glimmer was the gene finder for 49%, followed by GeneMark with 12%, with other algorithms used in 3% or fewer of the projects. (They also reported that 33% of genomes used \"other\" programs, which in many cases meant that they could not identify the method. Excluding those cases, Glimmer was used for 73% of the genomes for which the methods could be unambiguously identified.) Glimmer was used by the DDBJ to re-annotate all bacterial genomes in the International Nucleotide Sequence Databases. It is also being used by this group to annotate viruses. Glimmer is part of the bacterial annotation pipeline at the National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI), which also maintains a web server for Glimmer, as do sites in Germany, Canada.\n\nAccording to Google Scholar, as of early 2011 the original Glimmer article (Salzberg et al., 1998) has been cited 581 times, and the Glimmer 2.0 article (Delcher et al., 1999) has been cited 950 times.\n\n"}
{"id": "1854671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854671", "title": "Tim Cowlishaw", "text": "Tim Cowlishaw\n\nWilliam Timothy Cowlishaw (; born March 31, 1955) is an American sportswriter for \"The Dallas Morning News\", a regular panelist on the ESPN sports talk show \"Around the Horn\" and formerly the lead reporter for the ESPN2 racing show \"NASCAR Now\". Cowlishaw currently co-hosts \"Dennis and Cowlishaw\" on Dallas radio station KESN with Steve Dennis.\n\nCowlishaw attended the University of Texas at Austin. He later joined the \"Dallas Morning News\" in 1989, and became the lead sports columnist for the paper in 1998 While at the \"Morning News\", he was a beat writer for the Dallas Cowboys, Dallas Stars and Texas Rangers. He has also covered Oklahoma Sooners football for \"The Daily Oklahoman\" and the San Francisco Giants for the \"San Jose Mercury News\".\n\nIn 2002, Cowlishaw was named by Associated Press Sports Editors one of the top five sports columnists in the nation among large-circulation daily newspapers.\n\n"}
{"id": "1854678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854678", "title": "Jasmine: The Battle for the Mid-Realm", "text": "Jasmine: The Battle for the Mid-Realm\n\nJasmine: The Battle for the Mid-Realm is a fantasy-themed card game, designed and introduced in 1982 by Jasmine Publications' founder Darlene Pekul. It was based on the \"Story of Jasmine\" illustrated adventure published in \"Dragon Magazine\" from issue #37 through #48.\n\nEach game was sold as a complete limited-edition set of 112 cards, along with a rules fold-out. Each set was numbered and signed by the designer. Two to four players could play the game, and each was assigned a faction in the story. The object is to either be the first to collect three magic items inside that player's Castle or to have the last standing Castle in the game. Although it has some similarities to modern collectible card games - with game features like turn, play, event, combat and discard - players cannot customize their own deck. Each player always plays the same set of cards.\n\nThe game won the Strategist's Club Award in 1982 as \"Most Outstanding Game\". Jasmine was reviewed in the January 1983 issue Dragon Magazine.\n"}
{"id": "1854684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854684", "title": "Wade Defence", "text": "Wade Defence\n\nThe Wade Defence is a chess opening characterised by the initial moves:\n\nThe position can also arise from the move order 1.Nf3 d6 2.d4 Bg4.\nThe opening is named after British IM Bob Wade (1921–2008), originally from New Zealand, who played it for over 30 years. A number of grandmasters have often played the opening, including Julian Hodgson, Michael Adams, Vlastimil Jansa, and Tony Miles.\n\nJouni Yrjölä and Jussi Tella, in their book \"An Explosive Chess Opening Repertoire for Black\", state that the opening: [...] was played in 1938 by Rudolf Spielmann and used in the 1960s by Stein and Kavalek among others ... But the towering figure of the line is Julian Hodgson, who popularized it with many dynamic performances. Among the other practitioners, the contributions of Miles, Adams, Hickl and Jansa to the theoretical development of the line are worth mentioning.\n\nIn recognition of Hodgson's contributions, the authors refer to the opening as the \"Hodgson Variation\" rather than the \"Wade Defence\".\n\n\n\nBibliography\n"}
{"id": "1854686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854686", "title": "Mr. Wonderful (1955 song)", "text": "Mr. Wonderful (1955 song)\n\n\"Mr. Wonderful\" is a popular song, written in 1955 written by Jerry Bock, George David Weiss, and Larry Holofcener, as the title song of a Broadway musical starring Sammy Davis Jr. The song was introduced in the musical by Olga James.\n\nThe most popular contemporary recordings of the song were done by Peggy Lee, Sarah Vaughan and Teddi King. All of these reached the Billboard charts in 1956. \n"}
{"id": "1854687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854687", "title": "Merthyr Tydfil and Rhymney", "text": "Merthyr Tydfil and Rhymney\n\nMerthyr Tydfil and Rhymney may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1854689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854689", "title": "Ralph Wigram", "text": "Ralph Wigram\n\nRalph Follett Wigram CMG (; 23 October 1890 – 31 December 1936) was a British government official in the Foreign Office. He helped raise the alarm about German rearmament under Hitler during the period prior to World War II.\n\nIn part, he did this by providing intelligence information about German rearmament to Winston Churchill at a time when Churchill did not hold a position in the government of Stanley Baldwin. Churchill used the information to publicly attack the policies of Baldwin. Churchill's magisterial six-volume history of World War II, \"The Second World War\", described Wigram as a \"great unsung hero\". The autobiography of Valentine Lawford, who worked under Wigram in the Central Department, describes him variously as \"the authentic local deity\" and \"the departmental volcano.\"\n\nWigram's role was brought to public attention by the Southern Television drama serial \"\" (in which he was portrayed by Paul Freeman), and later by the biographical movie about Churchill, \"The Gathering Storm\" (in which he was portrayed by Linus Roache).\n\nWigram was the son of Eustace Rochester Wigram and Mary Grace Bradford-Atkinson, and had a younger sister, Isabel. He was the grandson of the Right Reverend Joseph Cotton Wigram, Bishop of Rochester, younger son of Sir Robert Wigram, 1st Baronet. He was a second cousin of Lord Wigram. He was educated at Eton and University College, Oxford.\n\nWigram joined the Foreign Office after graduation. He served as temporary secretary at the British Embassy in Washington, DC, from 1916 to 1919, as third secretary at the Foreign Office from 1919 to 1920, as second secretary at the Foreign Office from 1920 to 1921, as first secretary at the British Embassy in Paris from 1924 to 1933, and as counsellor at the Foreign Office and head of the Central Department from 1934 to 1936. He was appointed a Companion of the Order of St Michael and St George (CMG) in 1933.\n\nWigram helped raise the alarm about German rearmament under Adolf Hitler during the period prior to the Second World War. In part, he did this by providing intelligence information about German rearmament to Winston Churchill, at a time when Churchill did not hold any position in the government of Stanley Baldwin. Churchill used the information to publicly attack the policies of Baldwin.\n\nWigram's superior in the Foreign Office, Permanent Under-Secretary Sir Robert Vansittart had been quite alarmed about the German situation for several years, and when Wigram came on board, they soon came to share deep concern about the situation. Churchill's biographer William Manchester described one of Wigram's memoranda from this period as having \"a sagacity and vision seldom matched in Britain's archives\". In the beginning, they tried to raise the alarm with their political masters in the government, to no avail; in desperation, they then turned to other means.\n\nWigram did make at least one attempt at direct publicity – at the time of the occupation of the Rhineland in early 1936, he arranged a press conference for French Minister of Foreign Affairs Flandin, but it had little effect.\n\nHis efforts in another direction were far more successful. Wigram had begun passing information to Churchill in late 1934, apparently with the knowledge and support of Vansittart. The original path was via Major Desmond Morton, but from early 1935, Wigram began to interact directly with Churchill. From then on, Wigram and Churchill were in close contact. Starting on 7 April 1935, the Wigrams often spent weekends with Churchill at Chartwell, his country house, and Churchill also visited Wigram's London home. The information seems to have been primarily about the German air force, although more general material about German rearmament, and Hitler's character and likely aims, was included, as well.\n\nWigram was one of many people passing information to Churchill; Churchill's biographer, Martin Gilbert, estimated that more than 20 (although he credited Wigram as one of the three main players) were involved. The film \"Gathering Storm\", however, focuses on Wigram; the film's director, Richard Loncraine, said, \"in reality there were four 'Wigrams' – two Army officers and two civil servants. It would be cinematographically inept to have four people doing the same thing. What we did was leave out the other three characters.\"\n\nMembers of Parliament enjoy parliamentary privilege, including the right to say what they will and discuss what they will during proceedings in Parliament. Well aware of this, Churchill was able to criticise the UK government in the House of Commons without fear of comeback. The position of those who supplied him with data on Britain's defences, or the lack of them, can be explained by the fact that, as a privy councillor and former chancellor of the exchequer, Churchill had the highest level of security clearance and could, therefore, be assumed not to misuse the information passed to him. Baldwin's government certainly did not like the passing of information to Churchill; Walter Runciman, the president of the Board of Trade, was sent to see Wigram's wife Ava when Wigram was not at home to try to convince her to stop her husband from passing information to Churchill.\n\nWigram and Churchill did disagree over the Anglo-German Naval Agreement. Wigram supported it as a means to escape the strictures of disarmament, whereas Churchill felt it condoned German treaty-breaking. Nevertheless, Wigram remained a firm opponent of the policy of appeasement.\n\nWigram married Ava Bodley, daughter of the historian J. E. C. Bodley, on 28 February 1925; they had one child, Charles Edward Thomas Bodley Wigram (1929–1951) (who apparently suffered from some sort of birth defect, but sources disagree whether it was Down syndrome, cerebral palsy, or autism). Ava's letters to Churchill indicate that she supported Wigram's attempts to warn Churchill.\n\nAccording to Churchill, the British government's failure in March 1936 to pledge any support to France in countering Germany's remilitarization of the Rhineland dealt a mortal blow to Wigram. He went home and told his wife: \"War is now inevitable, and it will be the most terrible war there has ever been. I don’t think I shall see it, but you will. Wait now for bombs on this little house...All my work these many years has been no use. I am a failure. I have failed to make the people here realise what is at stake.\" \n\nWigram's sudden death is somewhat mysterious. Again, sources disagree on several points. For one, some say he was found dead at home, but a letter from Churchill says he died in Ava's arms. His death certificate recorded the cause of death as pulmonary haemorrhage, but a letter from Henry Pelling indicates he committed suicide while deeply depressed. The fact that his own parents did not attend his funeral in Sussex is cited as support for this theory, although Churchill and his family did attend, along with Robert Vansittart and Brendan Bracken, and his parents were attending a memorial service for him that morning in Devon, where Wigram was brought up and which was closer to many of his family's friends. Churchill's letters indicate (but only indirectly) that depression and suicide were the cause. Polio has also been put forward as a cause by some sources. He was buried in the churchyard at Cuckfield, Sussex. After Wigram's death, Ava stayed in close contact with Churchill, writing to him about her travels to Germany before the outbreak of war. She later married Sir John Anderson in 1941.\n\n"}
{"id": "1854694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854694", "title": "Al Qunaytirah", "text": "Al Qunaytirah\n\nAl Qunaytirah may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1854705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854705", "title": "Amianthium", "text": "Amianthium\n\nAmianthium is a North American genus of perennial plants growing from bulbs. It contains the single known species Amianthium muscitoxicum, known in English as fly poison from a literal translation of the Latin epithet \"muscitoxicum\", and is noted for its pretty flowers and its toxic alkaloid content. While all parts of the plant are poisonous, the bulb is particularly toxic. The scientific epithet was given to it by Thomas Walter when he published his \"Flora Caroliniana\" in 1788.\n\nThe bulb was mixed with sugar by American colonists to kill flies.\n\nThe toxic alkaloids present in the roots and leaves include jervine and amianthine. \"Amianthium\" is self-incompatible and is pollinated mostly by beetles. It is native to eastern North America, as far north as Pennsylvania, west roughly to the Appalachian Mountains (with an additional area in the Ozarks), and south to northern Florida and eastern Louisiana.\n\nWithin the family Melanthiaceae, \"Amianthium\" is a member of the tribe Melanthieae. Molecular phylogenetic studies in the 21st century have resulted in number of changes to placements within this tribe. \"A. muscitoxicum\" has sometimes been placed in the genus \"Zigadenus\" (as \"Z. muscitoxicus\"); however its position as a separate genus is consistent with currently available information. (See also Phylogeny of Melanthieae.)\n\n\"Amianthium\" species which have been placed in other genera include:\n"}
{"id": "1854707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854707", "title": "Grand Valley", "text": "Grand Valley\n\nGrand Valley may refer to:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1854709", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854709", "title": "Udangudi", "text": "Udangudi\n\nUdangudi is a Panchayat town in Thoothukudi district in the Indian state of Tamil Nadu. It is a small village in Tamil Nadu, India situated near Thiruchendur. The village was once known for Vetrilai (betel leaves) and Karuppatti (Palm Jaggery)\n\n India census, Udangudi had a population of 19,738. Males constitute 49.92% of the population and females 50.07%. Udangudi has an average literacy rate of 93.18 %, very much higher than the state average of 80.09%: male literacy is 95.08%, and female literacy is 91.30%.\n\nUdangudi in British rule had railway line connected to Tiruchendur. This railway line was laid primarily to take advantage of collecting the Palm Juice extraction going around Udangudi and British established a Jaggery Factory near Kulasekaran pattinam for export market. Unfortunately, the factory became non-operational which resulted in non-usage of this railway line. \n\nThe town is an example of peaceful co-existence with population of Muslims, Christians and Hindus distributed in equal proportions and the entire people live in harmony. \n\nT.D.T.A.Higher Secondary School is the oldest school for boys, Mary Ann Best Higher Secondary School for girls from which most people got educated and One more School Sri. Ramakrishna Chidhambareshwarer. Hr.Sec.School (Sri.R.K.C) is also there and there is most famous schools are there like St. Antony's RC Middle School, Saiva Prakasa Vidyasalai School, Anitha Kumaran Matric. Higher Secondary School. Najath School and Salma School etc. \n\nYears back Udangudi and its suburbs had a lot of Palmyrah groves, where the main occupation was to extract Palm Juice and prepare Karuppukatti or KarpagaKatti (Palm Jaggery, presumably karuppukatti is a transformed form for \"Karumbukatti\" sugar(cane)piece). More than a century back this centre was the place which catered to the Palm Jaggery requirements to the demands of South India and also Palm Jaggery requirements to several other countries where it was exported.\n\nThe name Udangudi might have been derived from two Tamil words. \"Udai\" means the thorny firewood tree (Prosopis juliflora) which is abundant in that area. \"Kudi\" refers to a village or a human settlement. The two words when joined together its pronounced as \"Udangudi\".\n\nSome people told this is the village having equal number of Hindu, Christian and Muslims. They lived here with a close relationship. So it named as 'Udangudi'.\n\nThere are several temples for \"Satharakonvillai Sri Utchinimaakaali Amman Kovil\", Mutharamman, Suadali Madan'. Satharakonvillai(SKV) is near Mary Ann Best Higher secondary school for girls.\n'Santhaiyadioor Ayya Vaigundar' temple, Santhaiyadioor Mutharamman Koil and Ayyanar temples around Udangudi. Some of the famous Ayyanar temples are ThuthuVaalai Ayyanar, Alli Oothu Kal Aal Ayyanar, Pon vandu Ayyanar, Arunjunai Katha ayyanar, Vennimalai aiyyan sastha koil located around Udangudi, Iyndhu veetu swami Temple at Chettiyapathu located 3 km from Udangudi. And one of the famous temple is Mutharamman Temple. \n\nSanthaiyadiyoor is the main place in Udangudi. Weekly market (Santhai) is very famous in that place.\nVaithilingapuram utichinimaakali amman, pattarai ammam temple one of the famous temple in Udangudi.\nVaithilingapuram gold workers is very famous place in udangudi\n\nThe city celebrates the famous festival called \"THE GRAND DASARA\" every year in the month of September / October, it is celebrated over 10 days. Devotees wore many \nfancy dresses to worship Kulasai Shri Mutharamman. It is very famous next to Mysore Dasara.\n\nDasara, a South Indian term for Vijayadashami, derived from the Sanskrit Dasha-hara which means \"remover of bad fate\", is among the most important festivals celebrated in India. Other regional spellings include Dashera, Dussera and Dussehra in North India.\n\nThere are many Churches for Protestant and Catholic in the small town - some Churches have a history of 150 years. \nThere is a famous church called St. Mark's Church which was established by Rev. Christian Samuel Kohlhoff. St.Mark's Church (Christianagaram) is famous for 'ASANAM' which is conducted every year in the month of January.\n\nSt.Mark's Church (Christianagaram) CSI St.Mark's Church - Website & Orkut Community Page, \nYesuvin Thirunama Aalayam (Santhaiadiyoor), St.Luke's Church (Pandaranchettivilai), St. Andrew's Church (Villikudiyiruppu), St.Joseph's Church, Bharathar street & St. Antony's Church Bharathar Street both are built by British (150 years).\n\n2x660 MW, Stage-I LOA issued to M/s BHEL for Design, Engineering, Manufacture, Supply, erection, testing and commissioning of complete 2x660MW coal based Supercritical thermal power project, Udangudi Stage I, on Engineering, Procurement and Construction basis for a value of Rs.7359 crores on 7.12.17. The required land has been handed over to the contractor on 15.12.2017. Work of Establishment of Captive Coal Jetty has been awarded to M/s. ITD Cementation India Limited on 13.2.18 and required land has been handed over to the contractor on 20.2.2018\n\n"}
{"id": "1854728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854728", "title": "List of Little House on the Prairie episodes", "text": "List of Little House on the Prairie episodes\n\nThe following is a list of episodes for the television show \"Little House on the Prairie\", an American Western drama about a family living on a farm in Walnut Grove, Minnesota from the 1870s to the 1890s. The show is a full-colour version of Laura Ingalls Wilder's series of Little House books.\n\nThe regular series was preceded by the two-hour pilot movie, which first aired on March 30, 1974. The series began on the NBC network on September 11, 1974, and ended on May 10, 1982. Then it was renewed for a ninth season better known as \"Little House: A New Beginning\" from September 27, 1982 to March 21, 1983\n\nThe majority of the episodes run approximately 50 minutes (not counting commercials, they have since been edited for syndication to accommodate more commercial time). Expanded episodes (90 minutes to 2 hours) have been indicated as such; many of these may not currently be shown in determined areas due to their length.\n<onlyinclude></onlyinclude>\n\nThis season is also known as \"Little House: A New Beginning.\" When Michael Landon decided to leave the show, it got this new name, the focus was put on the characters of Laura and Almanzo, and more recurring characters were added. Landon did, however, stay on as executive producer, and wrote and directed occasional episodes as well.\n\n"}
{"id": "1854744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854744", "title": "Anthericum", "text": "Anthericum\n\nAnthericum is a genus of about 65 species, rhizomatous perennial plants in the family Asparagaceae, subfamily Agavoideae. It was formerly placed in its own family, Anthericeae. The species have rhizomatous or tuberous roots, long narrow leaves and branched stems carrying starry white flowers. The members of this genus occur mainly in the tropics and southern Africa and Madagascar, but are also represented in Europe.\n\nThe generic name \"Anthericum\" is derived from the Greek word ανθερικος (\"antherikos\"), meaning \"straw\", referring to the narrow leaves.\n\nOnly two species are in general cultivation. A number of species are now included in the genus \"Chlorophytum\", the Spider Plant, a familiar and popular house plant. Others, including the St. Bruno's Lily, are now classed in the genus \"Paradisea\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1854757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854757", "title": "Carmel Beach central bus station", "text": "Carmel Beach central bus station\n\nCarmel Beach central bus station (, \"Merkazit Hof HaKarmel\") is the main bus station in Haifa, Israel, replacing the Haifa Bat Galim central bus station. The former station is now only used to store Egged buses and for Egged office space and innercity buses now only stop there on the road rather than inside on the route between Haifa Hof HaCarmel central bus station and the Mifratz central bus station. Carmel Beach central bus station opened in 19 August 2003. Since then, all buses coming from the South which formerly ended at Haifa Bat Galim central bus station terminate at Carmel Beach central bus station and new more frequent lines operate between the three stations. Passengers can get a free transfer to urban buses when they buy their inter-city ticket to continue from one central bus station to the other one, or into the city.\n\nCarmel Beach central bus station serves local Egged bus lines within the city of Haifa and all intercity Egged bus routes heading to the South. The station is also a mall. It has one level and has stores and a food court. At the waiting area for departing buses, there are doors to go outside to the bus platform. At the arrival area, people go inside a door to the building.\n\nCarmel Beach central bus station is adjacent to Haifa Carmel Beach railway station. There is a tunnel connecting the bus station with the train station. From the train station, there is a tunnel to the beach.\n\nA list of Egged's intercity bus lines at Carmel Beach CBS:\n"}
{"id": "1854764", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854764", "title": "Yamaha YMF7xx", "text": "Yamaha YMF7xx\n\nThere have been various families of Yamaha audio controllers labelled as YMF7xx.\n\n\nThe last model number for controller chips used on ISA bus cards is 719; chips used on PCI cards start at 720 and higher. Chips for PCI bus standalone adapters are marked YMF7x4, while on-board or embedded systems are marked YMF7x0. The DS-XG series features hardware-assisted XG MIDI synthesis with either 32- or 64-note polyphony, full-duplex playback and recording at any samplerate (internally upsampled to 48 kHz), external game controller and MIDI interface, and a legacy block for DOS application support.\n\nThe DS-XG family processors were used in many inexpensive (sub-$50) soundcards. Relative performance was good despite the typical low cost. The cards were usually equipped with good quality 18-bit Digital-to-Analogue Converters, providing similar low noise and harmonic distortion levels to those found in semi-professional hardware.\n\nThe XG synthesizer on the DS-XG series features not only basic XG System Level 1, but also some of the MU-50 additions, and can reproduce most musical data previously programmed for the popular DB50XG daughterboard. YMF7x4 cards shipped with a 2 MB bank of 8-bit samples by default, which must be loaded into system RAM during booting. Neither the resolution nor content of the sample bank are hardware limitations. A user can load their own banks using third-party tools to further improve sound quality or completely change the set of instruments. As with most other XG standard tone generators, YMF7x4 can switch itself into TG300B mode, which is an emulation of the Roland GS standard that allows adequate playback of musical data bearing the GS logo.\n\nLegacy support includes an OPL3 FM synthesizer, Sound Blaster Pro (22 kHz 8-bit Stereo) emulation and MPU-401 compatible MIDI interface. In addition to OPL3, DOS applications running under Windows 9x/Me can also use the XG tone generator.\n\nAll of these features are available using Yamaha's VxD driver under Windows 9x/Me. WDM drivers for these operating systems and later Windows 2000/XP may lack important mixer controls, like separate Line-Out and 3D Wide. Legacy mode is not supported under NT-based OSes.\n\nThe original version of the DS-XG chipset series is the YMF724. It is limited to two-channel output. It is followed by the YMF744 and its variants, which feature four-channel output. The final and most advanced version of the YMF7x4 chipset series is the YMF754, which also features standard four-channel output, but adds lower power consumption features. The most feature-rich soundcards based on the YMF754 are the Labway XWave 6000 (which has an additional hardware chip to emulate 5.1 surround sound and a six-channel amplifier providing 2W per channel) and the Hoontech SoundTrack i-Phone Digital XG (which features an additional connector for an included speech-optimized headset microphone as well as support circuitry that limits feedback in telephony applications).\n\nThe DS-XG .vxd drivers under Windows 95, 98, 98SE or ME can switch to Sondius-XG which allows emulation of the VL70-m tone generator (except for the distortion block).\n\n\nThe AC-XG family features AC'97 codec.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1854768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854768", "title": "Jumièges", "text": "Jumièges\n\nJumièges is a commune in the Seine-Maritime department in the Normandy region in north-western France.\n\nA forestry and farming village situated in a meander of the river Seine, some west of Rouen, at the junction of the D 65 and the D 143 roads. A ferry service operates here, connecting the commune with the south and west sides of the river.\n\n\nIt is best known as the site of Jumièges Abbey, a typical Norman abbey of the Romanesque period, and the home of the pro-Norman chronicler William of Jumièges who wrote the \"Gesta Normannorum Ducum\" about 1070. Now ruined, the abbey dates from 1067, when it was consecrated in the presence of William the Conqueror\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1854772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854772", "title": "Royal Canadian Geographical Society", "text": "Royal Canadian Geographical Society\n\nThe Royal Canadian Geographical Society (RCGS) (French: \"La Société géographique royale du Canada\"; \"SRGC\") is a Canadian non-profit educational organization dedicated to imparting a broader knowledge and deeper appreciation of Canada—its people and places, its natural and cultural heritage and its environmental, social and economic challenges.\nThe Royal Canadian Geographical Society was founded in 1929 by Charles Camsell and a group of eminent Canadians, including Marius Barbeau, an ethnographer and folklorist who is today considered a founder of Canadian anthropology, Hon. A.E. Arsenault, Premier of Prince Edward Island and justice of the province's supreme court, Lawrence J. Burpee, Secretary for Canada, International Joint Commission, John Wesley Dafoe, managing editor, \"Winnipeg Free Press\", Hon. Albert Hudson, a justice of the Supreme Court of Canada, and Dr. O.D. Skelton, Under-Secretary of State for External Affairs.\n\nThe Rt. Hon. Viscount Willingdon, Governor-General of Canada, was founding patron. J. B. Joseph Tyrrell, a geologist and cartographer whose exploits include the discovery of \"Albertosaurus\" bones in Alberta's Badlands, and making first contact with the Ihalmiut (\"People from Beyond\") of the Keewatin district of Canada's Northwest Territories, served as founding Honorary President. Arthur Philemon Coleman, a geologist and explorer who between 1884 and 1908 made eight trips of discovery to the Canadian Rockies, was named Honorary Vice-President. At its first meeting, Dr. Camsell said the society was formed \"purely for patriotic purposes\", and hoped it would \"be a unifying influence upon the life of Canada.\" A report by the acting secretary, E.S. Martindale, stated the intention of the founders: \"The work of making the resources and other geographic factors of each part of the Dominion more widely known and more clearly understood is one of the best educational services that can be undertaken—and one that cannot be rendered except through a geographic organization animated by a broad national purpose.\"\n\nAmong those who have addressed meetings of the RCGS over the years are Sir Francis Younghusband, Sir Hubert Wilkins, Maj. L. T. Burwash, Dr. Isaiah Bowman, Dr. Wade Davis, Michael Palin, Dr. Phil Currie, and Sir Christopher Ondaatje.\n\nThe RCGS publishes the award-winning English-language magazine, \"Canadian Geographic\", which has been published continuously since 1930 (when it was called the \"Canadian Geographical Journal\"). The society also publishes \"Canadian Geographic Travel\" quarterly. The society's French-language magazine, \"Géographica\", which is published in collaboration with \"La Presse\", was introduced in 1997.\n\nAlan Beddoe designed the arms for the Royal Canadian Geographical Society and his fonds includes a black and white photograph of the letters patent.\n\nIn October 2016, it was announced that the society's new home would be an iconic building at 50 Sussex Drive, Ottawa. The society moved into their new headquarters in Spring 2018, and debuted two exhibitions: \"Explore\" by Chris Cran and \"Lessons From the Arctic: How Roald Amundsen Won the Race to the South Pole\".\n\nIn May 2019, the prime minister of Canada, Justin Trudeau, attended the official opening ceremony of the Royal Canadian Geographical Society's headquarters at 50 Sussex Drive.\n\nThe Royal Canadian Geographical Society helps fund education, expeditions, research and lectures programs. Notably, it was a partner in the 2014 Victoria Strait Expedition that located HMS \"Erebus\", one of two exploration vessels lost on the British Arctic Expedition commanded by Sir John Franklin.\n\nEach fall, the society hosts the annual College of Fellows Annual Dinner, with notable past speakers include Sir Francis Younghusband, Major General Sir James Howden MacBrien, \"Jeopardy!\" host Alex Trebek, artist Robert Bateman, actor Dan Aykroyd, ethnobotanist Wade Davis, Climate Canada's senior climatologist David Phillips, storm chaser George Kourounis, and award-winning author Margaret Atwood. In addition, the dinner has been attended by both Prime Minister Stephen Harper and Governor General David Johnston in the past.\n\nIn June 2017, it was granted $2,084,000 in funding from the Government of Canada to develop the educational resource, a portion of which was drawn from the Canada 150 fund. This resulted in the creation of the \"Indigenous Peoples Atlas of Canada\", developed with input from a number of groups and organizations representing indigenous peoples in Canada, including the Assembly of First Nations, Indspire, Inuit Tapiriit Kanatami, the Métis National Council, and the National Centre for Truth and Reconciliation. An issue of each of \"Canadian Geographic\" and \"Géographica\" were dedicated to the project.\n\nThe society's board of governors and its program committees are made up entirely of volunteers, who are members of the College of Fellows. Traditionally, Fellows were elected \"in recognition of outstanding service to Canada.\"\n\nPast Fellows of the society include such eminent names as the painter A.Y. Jackson, explorer Vilhjalmur Stefansson, mariner and explorer Capt. Joseph-Elzéar Bernier, journalist Agnes C. Laut, American businessman and explorer Fenley Hunter, Nobel Prize recipient Prof. F.G. Banting, Edward Shackleton, Baron Shackleton, geographer and son of Sir Ernest Shackleton, composer Sir Ernest MacMillan, broadcaster and traveller Lowell Thomas, businessman James Armstrong Richardson Sr., Saskatchewan Premier T.C. Tommy Douglas, explorer Henry Larsen, historian L'abbé Arthur Maheux, anthropologist Diamond Jenness, businessman E.P. Taylor, Canadian Prime Ministers R.B. Bennett, Louis St. Laurent, and Lester B. Pearson, hotelier Conrad Hilton, former Conservative leader and Nova Scotia Premier Robert Stanfield, and geographer and GIS originator Roger Tomlinson. Current Fellows include Gilbert M. Grosvenor, of the National Geographic Society, ethnobotanist Wade Davis, astronauts Steve MacLean, Jeremy Hansen and Jerry M. Linenger, and businessman and author Sir Christopher Ondaatje. Besides regular Fellows, the society elects Honorary Fellows, people recognized for special or outstanding achievements. The president, and other members of the executive, are elected by the College of Fellows at the society's annual general meeting.\n\nFellows are entitled to use the post-nominal letters \"FRCGS\" (Fellow of the Royal Canadian Geographical Society).\n\nThe Governor General of Canada serves as the patron of the society. The society has honorary officers, including honorary presidents and honorary vice-presidents. A volunteer Board of governors, chaired by the president of the board, and an executive committee, provide general oversight.\n\nDay-to-day operations of the society, its programs and business, are provided by its chief executive officer, currently John G. Geiger. The CEO is also responsible for strategic leadership, in consultation with the board of governors.\n\n\n\nThe society awards the following awards:\n\nRecognizing a particular achievement by one or more individuals in the general field of geography or a significant national or international event. It was first awarded in 1972.\n\nSource: RCGS\n\nThe Sir Christopher Ondaatje Medal for Exploration, named after Gold Medal and Camsell Medal recipient Sir Christopher Ondaatje, was established in 2013.\n\nSource: RCGS\n\nThe 3M Environmental Innovation Award was established in 2009 by the Royal Canadian Geographical Society (RCGS) and 3M Canada to recognize outstanding individuals in business, government, academia or community organizations whose innovative contributions to environmental change are benefiting Canada and Canadians.\n\nSource: RCGS\n\nThe Royal Canadian Geographical Society awards the Camsell Medal to bestow recognition upon, and to express the society's appreciation to, individuals who have given outstanding service to the society. The award was established by the society's board of governors in 1992.\n\nSource: RCGS\n\nEstablished by the Royal Canadian Geographical Society in 2012, the medal recognizes achievement for \"excellence in Arctic leadership and science.\" It is named in honour of Martin \"Marty\" Bergmann, a public servant.\n\nSource: RCGS\n\nEstablished by the society in 2013, this medal is awarded to recognize outstanding contribution to the general advancement of geography, or to other achievement that greatly enhances the ability of the society to fulfill its mission.\n\nSource: RCGS\n\nThe Massey Medal recognizes outstanding personal achievement in the exploration, development or description of the geography of Canada. The award was established in 1959 by the Massey Foundation, named for industrialist Hart Massey.\n\nSource: RCGS\n\nEstablished in 2013, the Innovation in Geography Teaching Award is presented to K-12 teachers who have \"gone above and beyond their job description to further geographic literacy\".\n\nSource: RCGS\n\nEstablished in 2018, the medal is named for Louie Kamookak, an Inuit historian involved in the search for Franklin's lost expedition, and is awarded for those who have \"been brought to the attention of the Executive Committee, Awards Committee, or to the CEO, as having made Canada’s geography better known to Canadians and to the world\".\n\nSource: RCGS\n\nCanadian Geographic Education—formerly the Canadian Council for Geographic Education (CCGE)—is a joint initiative of the Royal Canadian Geographical Society and the National Geographic Society of Washington, D.C., established in 1993. The programs of the Can Geo Education aim to strengthen geographic education in the classroom. In addition to increasing the emphasis on geography within the school system, the Can Geo Education endeavours to increase the public awareness of the importance of geographical literacy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1854777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854777", "title": "Devil's Food", "text": "Devil's Food\n\nDevil's Food is a singles compilation by the American rock and roll band Supersuckers. It was released in April 2005 on Mid-Fi records.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1854785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854785", "title": "Grand Valley (Colorado-Utah)", "text": "Grand Valley (Colorado-Utah)\n\nThe Grand Valley is an extended populated valley, approximately long and wide, located along the Colorado River in Mesa County (and slightly into Garfield County) in western Colorado and Grand County in eastern Utah in the Western United States. The valley contains the city of Grand Junction, as well as other smaller communities such as Fruita and Palisade. The valley is a major fruit-growing region that contains many orchards and vineyards, and is home to one of two designated American Viticultural Areas in Colorado: the Grand Valley AVA. It takes its name from the \"Grand River\", the historical name of the Colorado River upstream from its confluence with the Green River that was used by locals in the late 19th and early 20th century. The valley is the most densely populated area on the Colorado Western Slope, with Grand Junction serving as an unofficial capital of the region, as a counterpoint to Denver on the eastern slope of the Rocky Mountains in the Colorado Front Range. Interstate 70 and U.S. Highway 6 run through the valley from west-to-east. The Grand Valley is part of the larger Colorado Plateau desert lands.\n\nThe valley begins where the Colorado River widens at the mouth of De Beque Canyon to the east of Palisade, then follows a wide arc bending to the west. The Colorado receives the Gunnison River, one of its major tributaries, just south of Grand Junction near the midpoint of the valley. The valley is surrounded by large plateau formations, including the Book Cliffs along the north side, the Grand Mesa along the southeast side, and the Uncompahgre Plateau to the southwest. Colorado National Monument sits on a ridge on the southwest side of the valley west of Grand Junction. Much of the surrounding table land areas rimming the valley are public lands controlled by the Bureau of Land Management.\nThe valley was an area historically occupied by the Ute people (Parianuche band). White settlers began to arrive in the 1880s, farming the valley for a variety of grains and fruits. In the 1890s, it was discovered that sugar beets grown in the valley had a high sugar content, leading to widespread cultivation of that crop. At the turn of the 20th century, evaporation techniques allowed fruit-growers to ship their products more efficiently to distant markets, yielding an expansion of fruit growing in the valley. In 1918, the Government Highline Canal was completed to provide water to cultivate 50,000 acres (20.0 km²) in the valley. The project included a roller dam in De Beque Canyon, the largest of three such dams of this type in the nation.\n\n"}
{"id": "1854793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854793", "title": "Pateley Bridge", "text": "Pateley Bridge\n\nPateley Bridge (known locally as Pateley) is a small market town in Nidderdale in the Borough of Harrogate, North Yorkshire, England. Historically part of the West Riding of Yorkshire, it lies on the River Nidd.\n\nIt has the oldest sweet shop in the world. Established in 1827, it is housed in one of the earliest buildings in Pateley Bridge, dating from 1661. Pateley Bridge is also the home of the Nidderdale Museum.\n\nThe last Dales agricultural show of the year, the Nidderdale Show, is held annually on the showground by the River Nidd. The show attracts over 14,000 visitors each year.\n\nThe town was listed in both the 2017 and 2018 \"Sunday Times\" reports on Best Places to Live in northern England.\n\nIn the early Middle Ages the site of Pateley lay in lands of the Archbishop of York, which came to be known as Bishopside. In the 12th century the principal settlement in Bishopside was at Wilsill, rather than Pateley. Pateley was first recorded in 1175 (though the document survives in a later copy), as \"Patleiagate\", with 14th century forms including \"Patheleybrig(ge)\". The final elements are clear, deriving from Old Norse \"gata\" ('street') and the northern dialect form \"brig\" ('bridge') respectively. There is more debate about the \"Pateley\" section of the name: the usual explanation is Old English \"pæþ\" ('path') in the genitive plural form \"paða\" + \"lēah\" ('open ground, clearing in a forest'); \"paða lēah\" would mean \"woodland clearing of the paths\", referring to paths up Nidderdale and from Ripon to Craven, which intersected here. However, the \"Pateley\" name forms competed in the Middle Ages with forms like \"Padlewath\" (1227) and \"Patheslayewathe\" which could be from Middle English *\"padil\" ('a shallow place in water') + Old Norse \"vath\" ('ford') and it could be that they owe something to this name. The local story that the name comes from 'Pate', an old Yorkshire dialect word for 'Badger', is incorrect.\n\nIn 1320 the Archbishop of York granted a charter for a market and fair at Pateley. From the 14th century until the early part of the 20th century, Scotgate Ash Quarry despatched hard-wearing sandstone from its site on the northern flank above Pateley Bridge. When the railway arrived in Nidderdale, the stone was exported by trains and was used in railway platforms, national buildings and harbour walls. Scotgate Ash Quarry closed in 1915.\n\nUntil 1964, Pateley Bridge railway station was the terminus of the railway line running up Nidderdale from Nidd Valley Junction, near Harrogate. Between 1907 and 1937, the Nidd Valley Light Railway ran farther up the dale. Access is now by road, with an hourly bus service from Harrogate.\n\nPateley Bridge was once in the Lower Division of Claro Wapentake. In the 19th century local government reforms the town fell within the Pateley Bridge Poor Law Union, later the Pateley Bridge Rural Sanitary District and from 1894 Pateley Bridge Rural District. In 1937 the rural district was merged to become part of Ripon and Pateley Bridge Rural District.\n\nSince 1974 the town has fallen within the Borough of Harrogate in North Yorkshire.\n\nPateley Bridge is the largest settlement in the civil parish of High and Low Bishopside, historically a township in the large parish of Ripon. High and Low Bishopside was created a civil parish in 1866. Pateley Bridge was granted town status in 1986, and the High and Low Bishopside Parish Council was renamed Pateley Bridge Town Council. However, the official name of the parish remains High and Low Bishopside.\n\nThe parish is bounded on the west by the River Nidd, and includes a large area of moorland to the east of the town. Other settlements in the parish include the southern part of Wath, Glasshouses, Wilsill, Blazefield and Fellbeck. The parish does not include the Nidderdale showground or the district of Bridgehouse Gate, which are on the west bank of the Nidd in the parish of Bewerley.\n\nIn the 2001 census the parish had a population of 2,153, increasing to 2,210 at the 2011 Census.\n\nAn electoral ward in the name of Pateley Bridge exists. This stretches north to Stonebeck Up with a total population taken at the 2011 Census of 2,718.\n\nBed & breakfast houses, church and chapel, garage (Nidderdale Motors), hotels, Nidderdale Museum, primary school, public houses, public library, public park, restaurants, secondary school (Nidderdale High School), shops and theatre (Pateley Playhouse). Bewerley Park Centre for Outdoor Education is in the nearby village of Bewerley. Brimham Rocks and Stump Cross Caverns are also close by.\n\nThe Nidderdale Way and Six Dales Trail both pass through the town.\n\nThe town is also a cricketing hub, with several teams (known collectively as 'The Badgers') competing in various leagues. Crown green bowling is also a popular pastime.\n\nPateley is also served by Nidderdale Pool and Leisure Centre. Comprising a 20-metre swimming pool, gym, sports hall and two squash courts, the facility officially opened in 2005 after many years of local fundraising.\n\nThe town is also famous for the \"\"Oldest Sweet Shop in England\"\" which was established in 1827 and is validated as the longest continuous trading sweet shop in the world (Guinness World Records Book 2014) and is housed in one of the oldest buildings in Pateley Bridge.\n\nKing Street workshops can be found on King Street & house a talented group of artists and designers. Their studios are open and they include jewellers, milliner, textile art & gifts, sculptors, fine artist and glassblowers.\n\nLike much of the British Isles, Pateley Bridge has a Temperate Maritime Climate. The warmest temperature recorded was 31.0 °C (87.8 °F) on 1 July 2015. The nearest location where data is available is Dishforth Airfield. It is particularly notable that the warmest and the coldest temperatures for May both occurred in 2010, within the space of just 12 days. The heatwave at the beginning of October 2011 was so extreme that the warmest October temperature was recorded, and it was higher than the record high of September in any year. With a mean temperature of 11.4 °C (52.5 °F), December 2015 was easily the warmest December ever recorded, and the warmest ever December temperature of 16.2 °C (61.2 °F) was reached on 19th. In contrast, the December 2010 mean temperature was −1.9 °C (28.6 °F), and the coldest ever temperature of −15.0 °C (5.0 °F) was reached on the 6th.\n\n"}
{"id": "1854801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854801", "title": "VIM Airlines", "text": "VIM Airlines\n\nVIM Airlines (legally \"VIM Avia\") was a Russian airline headquartered in Moscow based at Domodedovo International Airport. It offered international scheduled and charter operations for both passengers and cargo as well as wet lease services. Its licence was revoked by 4 November 2017 after its operations were suspended a few weeks earlier.\n\nVIM Airlines was established by Viktor Ivanovich Merkulov (hence the name of the company) and started operations in 2000, with an Ilyushin Il-62M. At the end of 2004, the company acquired Chitaavia and Aerobratsk, followed by Russian Sky Airlines in 2005.\n\nOn 28 September 2017, CEO Alexander Cochnev and Chief Accountant Yekaterina Panteleyeva were arrested after an embezzlement case against the employers of the company.\n\nIn late September 2017 VIM Airlines' aircraft were seized at foreign airports and several routes were cancelled, including all operations from its home base Moscow-Domodedovo. The airline's aircraft were seized by lessors in Turkey following ongoing investigations by the Russian authorities. The airline suspended all charter operations in September 2017 and suspended all scheduled operations on 15 October 2017. On 4 November 2017, the airline's license was revoked by Russian authorities as the airline was unable to resume flights.\n\nAs of September 2017, the VIM Airlines fleet consisted of the following aircraft:\n\nVIM Airlines previously operated the following aircraft:\n\n"}
{"id": "1854804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854804", "title": "Live at the Tractor Tavern", "text": "Live at the Tractor Tavern\n\nLive at the Tractor Tavern is a live country recording by the American rock and roll band Supersuckers. Released in 2004, it was recorded live at The Tractor Tavern, in Seattle, Washington.\n\n\nHarmonica on the album is played by Dave Lipkind from a Portland, Oregon, band called I Can Lick Any Sonofabitch in the House.\n"}
{"id": "1854813", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854813", "title": "6Gig", "text": "6Gig\n\n6Gig is a band from the Portland, Maine area. It is classified by reviewers as an aggro or nu metal band, although the band is quite hard to classify because the only trait that the band shared with other nu metal bands is downtuned guitars. They actively played at clubs and different locations throughout New England. They released two CDs and several singles, as well as a video for the song \"Hit the Ground\" that received airplay on MTV2. Before the release of \"Mind Over Mind\", the band parted ways with drummer Dave Rankin and replaced him with Jason Stewart. Shortly after this, Rankin was found dead from a mixture of prescription drugs and alcohol.\n\nDue to financial troubles at Ultimatum Music, \"Mind Over Mind\" never received an official release, instead being sold only over the label's website. This decision led the band to put the entire \"Mind Over Mind\" album online for free download in the summer of 2004 for a short time. The band separated in 2005 and its members have since joined other bands, including singer Walter Craven in Lost on Liftoff and Jason Stewart in Sidecar Radio.\n\n6Gig reunited for two shows at The Big Easy in Portland, Maine on May 2 & 3, 2008. They reunited again in Portland on July 1, 2011 for a show at The Asylum. Since then they have been playing shows regularly. The band released an EP called \"Dogs\" in 2013.\n\n\n\"Hit The Ground\" was 6Gig's biggest hit. It appeared on the National Lampoon's Van Wilder soundtrack, \"Ozzfest 2001 Summer Sampler\" and various compilation albums. On the 2005 album \"Beautiful Locals\", released on Labor Day Records, a compilation album of cover songs from Maine bands and artists, Paranoid Social Club, another Maine rock band, covers \"Hit The Ground\". The original song was also featured as a clip of music in an episode of MTV's \"Pimp My Ride.\", and as a soundtrack tune on NHL Hitz 2002 for the Xbox.\n\nA post on the band's website officially announced the \"retirement\" of the band on March 28, 2005. Craig Weaver went on to form Ruler Of The Raging Main. Frontman Walt Craven is currently playing in Lost On Liftoff. Jason Stewart is hitting drums in both Sidecar Radio and the Baltic Sea.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1854816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854816", "title": "Margaret Marshall Saunders", "text": "Margaret Marshall Saunders\n\nMargaret Marshall Saunders CBE (May 13, 1861 – February 15, 1947) was a prolific Canadian writer of children's stories and romance novels, a lecturer, and an animal rights advocate. She was an active member of the Local Council of Women of Halifax.\n\nSaunders was born April 13, 1861 in the village of Milton, Nova Scotia, one of four children born to Reverend Edmund M. and Maria (nee Freeman) Saunders. She spent most of her childhood in Berwick, Nova Scotia where her father was a Baptist minister. She studied in Edinburgh, Scotland and Orleans, France at the age of 15, before returning to Halifax, where she took courses at Dalhousie for a year prior to launching her career a freelance writer. It was in response to the male dominated nature of the publishing industry and she shortened her name to Marshall Saunders.\n\nSaunders is most famous for her novel \"Beautiful Joe\". It tells the true story of a dog from Meaford, Ontario that had his ears and tail chopped off by an abusive owner as a puppy, but is rescued by a Meaford family whose lives he later saves. The story is written from the dog's point of view, and is often compared to Black Beauty which was released a few years earlier.\nIn 1889 Saunders submitted \"Beautiful\" Joe to the American Humane Education Society Prize Competition \"Kind and Cruel Treatment of Domestic Animals and Birds in the Northern States\", and won a prize of $200. When the book was brought to publication in 1893, both the book and its subject received worldwide attention. It was the first Canadian book to sell over a million copies, and by the late 1930s had sold over seven million copies worldwide. It was also translated into many languages, including Esperanto. About Beautiful Joe, Marshall Saunders commented, \"I have had the honour of leading the old Ontario dog around the world on a chain of translations and rejoice in the report that he has become quite a propagandist for humanitarianism\".\n\nFollowing the publication of \"Beautiful Joe\", Saunders, along with author Lucy Maud Montgomery, founded the Nova Scotia branch of the Canadian Women's Press Club, going on to serve as the National Vice-President of the Maritime branchs of the club. \n\nSaunders wrote more than twenty other stories, a number of which provided social commentary on such things as the abolition of child labor, slum clearance, and the improvement of playground facilities. Saunders also wrote newspaper articles about supervised playgrounds for city children and other social issues in the Halifax Morning Chronicle and the Toronto Globe. She also lectured frequently, and belonged to many organizations including various humane societies. In 1914, Saunders moved into 66 St. George Street in downtown Toronto, and later moved in with her younger sister at 62 Glengowan Avenue. Margaret's house was always filled with pets including at one time 28 canaries. She had a tendency to name her pets after the locations where they had been found, and once had a pigeon named 38 Front Street, and a dog named Johnny Doorstep.\n\nSaunders receive and Honorary Master of Arts from Acadia University. in 1911. In 1934, at age 73, Margaret was appointed Commander of the Order of the British Empire (C.B.E.). That same year she also received a medal from the Societe Protectice des Animaux in Paris, France.\n\nSaunders died in 1947 in Toronto, Ontario where she had lived for a number of years. She is buried in Mount Pleasant Cemetery in Toronto. In 1953 a plaque was installed by the Nova Scotia Site and Monuments Board near the site where she was born in Milton, Nova Scotia, which was later moved to Tupper Park.\n\nIn 1994, the Beautiful Joe Heritage Society was formed to celebrate the life and story of Beautiful Joe and Saunders' achievements. A park dedicated to Beautiful Joe has been established in Meaford, Ontario, Canada\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1854817", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854817", "title": "Canadian Geographic Education", "text": "Canadian Geographic Education\n\nCanadian Geographic Education (Can Geo Education), formerly The Canadian Council for Geographic Education, is a joint initiative of the Royal Canadian Geographical Society of Ottawa, Ontario, and the National Geographic Society of Washington, D.C. established in 1993.\n\nThe programs of Can Geo Education aim to foster geographic engagement in Canada. In addition to increasing the emphasis on geography within the school system, Can Geo Education endeavours to increase the geographic literacy of all Canadians through the formal K-12 education system.\n\nCan Geo Education creates innovative educational resources for teachers in K-12 education. Since 2012, the organization has been producing giant floor maps—themed maps printed on 11 metre by 8 metre heavy-stock vinyl that can be walked on. Teachers are provided with lesson plans to educate their students on the map, and the maps circulate Canadian schools at no cost to them. Current and past themes have included the War of 1812, Canada from space (with the Canadian Space Agency), a circular North Pole map (with the Canadian Museum of Nature), the country's national parks (with Parks Canada), and North America's animal migrations (with the Canadian Wildlife Federation).\n\nThe Canadian Geographic Challenge (formerly the Great Canadian Geography Challenge), established in 1995, is the longest-running Canadian national student geography competition organized annually by Can Geo Education for students from Grades 4 to 10. There are two levels of competition—Level 1 is for Grades 4 to 6 is at the school level only, and Level 2 for Grades 7 to 10 offers students the opportunity to compete at the provincial and national levels. At school level, students answer up to 90 geography-related questions. The student who succeeds in his school takes an online questionnaire, then can move on to provincial and national levels.\n\nOther programs of the organization include the Classroom Energy Diet Challenge with Shell Canada and Canada's Coolest School Trip with Parks Canada.\n\n"}
{"id": "1854818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854818", "title": "USS Bush (DD-529)", "text": "USS Bush (DD-529)\n\nUSS \"Bush\" (DD-529), a , was the second ship of the United States Navy to be named for Lieutenant William Sharp Bush, USMC, who served on the during the War of 1812.\n\n\"Bush\" was launched 27 October 1942 by Bethlehem Steel Co., San Francisco, Calif., sponsored by Miss Marion Jackson, great-great-grandniece of Lieutenant Bush; and commissioned 10 May 1943, Commander W. F. Peterson in command.\n\nBetween 29 July and 27 November 1943 \"Bush\" acted as a patrol and escort vessel in Alaskan waters. Arriving at Pearl Harbor 4 December 1943, she commenced operations as a patrol, escort, and fire support ship throughout the Pacific, from the Ellice Islands to New Guinea, the Philippines, and Okinawa. She participated in\nthe Bismarck Archipelago operations, including\nthe Cape Gloucester,\nNew Britain landings and\nthe Admiralty Islands landings (26 December 1943 – 31 March 1944);\nSaidor, New Guinea, operations (18–21 January);\nMorotai landings (15 September);\nLeyte landings (20–24 October),\nLuzon operation, including\nthe Mindoro and\nLingayen Gulf landings (12–18 December 1944 and 4–18 January 1945);\nIwo Jima operation (19 February–9 March); and\nthe Okinawa operation (1–6 April).\n\nOn 1 November 1944, while operating in Leyte Gulf and during hours of continuous combat operations, \"Bush\" splashed two of ten Japanese planes during a severe air attack. She was showered by flying shrapnel and suffered two men wounded, one of whom was its executive officer, Lt. P.A. \"Tony\" Lilly. \"The destroyer Bush, on antisubmarine patrol in South Surigao Strait, fought a running battle with numerous planes all morning, beginning at 9:40 a.m., when she opened up on a Betty that came in on the ship’s starboard beam, dropped a torpedo, and swept off. Bush maneuvered to avoid the torpedo and hit the plane with her forty-millimeter guns. Four minutes later another Betty rushed the destroyer, and Bush, zigzagging furiously, dodged another torpedo and brought the plane down close to her side. A third, fourth, fifth, and sixth Betty pounced on the destroyer, as though she were the only ship on the high seas, the tail gunner of one plane strafing with his machine gun.\" \n\n\"Bush\" was operating as radar picket ship off Okinawa 6 April 1945 and had splashed at least one plane when she was hit and subsequently sunk by three Japanese \"kamikazes\". At 1515, the first plane hit at the deck level on the starboard side between number one and two stacks causing its bomb or torpedo to explode in the forward engine room. Although much damage was sustained the ship was not believed to be in severe danger and tugs were requested. was closing in to assist when she was hit by a suicide plane and was so severely damaged that she had to be sunk by United States forces.\n\nAt 1725, a second \"kamikaze\" crashed into the port side of \"Bush\"s main deck between the stacks, starting a large fire and nearly severing the ship. At 1745, a third crashed onto the port side just above the main deck. Some of the ship's ammunition caught fire and began to explode. Although it was believed that she would break amidships, it was thought that both halves would be salvageable. However, an unusually heavy swell rocked the ship, and \"Bush\" began to cave in amidships. Other swells followed, and the ship was abandoned by her 227 survivors just before she folded and sank. 87 of her crew were lost.\n\n\"Bush\" received seven battle stars for her World War II service.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1854831", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854831", "title": "Joseph Montoya", "text": "Joseph Montoya\n\nJoseph Manuel Montoya (September 24, 1915June 5, 1978) was an American politician and member of the Democratic Party who served as the lieutenant governor of New Mexico (1947–1951 and 1955–1957), in the U.S. House of Representatives (1957–1964) and as a U.S. senator from New Mexico (1964–1977).\n\nMontoya was born in Peña Blanca, New Mexico. His parents, Thomas and Frances Montoya, were Roman Catholic descendants of eighteenth-century Spanish settlers to New Mexico. He received his early education in public schools in Sandoval County and graduated from Bernalillo High School in 1931. He continued his education at Regis College in Denver, Colorado. In 1934, he began law school at Georgetown University in Washington, D.C..\n\nIn 1936 at age 21, while Montoya was still at Georgetown, he became the youngest representative in the history of the state to be elected to the New Mexico House of Representatives. In 1938 Montoya graduated from law school and was reelected. The following year, he was elected the Democratic majority floor leader.\n\nMontoya was elected to the New Mexico Senate in 1940, once again becoming the youngest member of that body ever elected. By the time he left the Senate in 1946, Montoya had been twice reelected to the State Senate and held the positions of majority whip and Chairman of the Judiciary Committee. From 1947 to 1957 he was elected Lieutenant Governor of New Mexico three times and also served two additional terms in the State Senate.\n\nIn 1957 Montoya was elected to the U.S. House of Representatives in a special election after the sudden death of the recently reelected New Mexican Congressman Antonio M. Fernández. In Congress Montoya gained a recognition as a political moderate, a dedicated Democrat, and a diligent legislator — qualities that earned him the esteem of his fellow legislators and made him an effective congressman. In 1962, he defeated Republican Jack C. Redman, M.D. \n\nIn 1963, he became a member of the House Appropriations Committee where he was a strong advocate of education measures and soon authored the Vocational Education Act. In 1964, he sponsored the Wilderness Act, which protected wilderness areas. Montoya won the 1964 Senate election to complete the term of Dennis Chavez, who died in office. Montoya won even though the Governor of New Mexico, Edwin L. Mechem, had resigned the governorship in order fill the seat temporarily. Thus began a twelve-year career in the Senate, where he served on the Appropriations Committee, the Public Works Committee, the Joint Committee on Atomic Energy, and Senate Watergate Committee.\n\nIn 1976, a year that was a Democratic victory nationwide, Montoya was defeated by Republican Harrison Schmitt 57% to 42%.\n\nMontoya died in Washington, D.C. at the age of 62.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1854832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854832", "title": "Live at the Magic Bag", "text": "Live at the Magic Bag\n\nLive at the Magic Bag is a live recording by the American rock and roll band Supersuckers. Released in 2004, it was recorded live at The Magic Bag in Ferndale, Michigan.\n\n"}
{"id": "1854841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854841", "title": "Pivot language", "text": "Pivot language\n\nA pivot language, sometimes also called a bridge language, is an artificial or natural language used as an intermediary language for translation between many different languages – to translate between any pair of languages A and B, one translates A to the pivot language P, then from P to B. Using a pivot language avoids the combinatorial explosion of having translators across every combination of the supported languages, as the number of combinations of language is linear (formula_1), rather than quadratic formula_2 – one need only know the language A and the pivot language P (and someone else the language B and the pivot P), rather than needing a different translator for every possible combination of A and B.\n\nThe disadvantage of a pivot language is that each step of retranslation introduces possible mistakes and ambiguities – using a pivot language involves two steps, rather than one. For example, when Hernán Cortés communicated with Mesoamerican Indians, he would speak Spanish to Gerónimo de Aguilar, who would speak Mayan to Malintzin, who would speak Nahuatl to the locals.\n\nEnglish, French, Russian, and Arabic are often used as pivot languages. Interlingua has been used as a pivot language in international conferences and has been proposed as a pivot language for the European Union. Esperanto was proposed as a pivot language in the Distributed Language Translation project and has been used in this way in the Majstro Tradukvortaro at the Esperanto website Majstro.com. The Universal Networking Language is an artificial language specifically designed for use as a pivot language.\n\nPivot coding is also a common method of translating data for computer systems. For example, the internet protocol, XML and high level languages are pivot codings of computer data which are then often rendered into internal binary formats for particular computer systems.\n\nUnicode was designed to be usable as a pivot coding between various major existing character encodings, though its widespread adoption as a coding in its own right has made this usage unimportant.\n\nCurrent statistical machine translation (SMT) systems use parallel corpora for source (s) and target (t) languages to achieve their good results, but good parallel corpora are not available for all languages. A pivot language (p) enables the bridge between two languages, to which existing parallel corpora are entirely or partially not yet at hand.\n\nPivot translation can be problematic because of the potential lack of fidelity of the information forwarded in the use of different corpora. From the use of two bilingual corpora (s-p & p-t) to set up the s-t bridge, linguistic data are inevitably lost. Rule-based machine translation (RBMT) helps the system rescue this information, so that the system does not rely entirely on statistics but also on structural linguistic information.\n\nThree basic techniques are used to employ pivot language in machine translation: (1) \"triangulation\", which focuses on phrase paralleling between source and pivot (s-p) and between pivot and target (p-t); (2) \"transfer\", which translates the whole sentence of the source language to a pivot language and then to the target language; and (3) \"synthesis\", which builds a corpus of its own for system training.\n\nThe triangulation method (also called \"phrase table multiplication\") calculates the probability of both translation correspondences and lexical weight in s-p and p-t, to try to induce a new s-t phrase table. The transfer method (also called \"sentence translation strategy\") simply carries a straightforward translation of s into p and then another translation of p into t without using probabilistic tests (as in triangulation). The synthetic method uses an existing corpus of s and tries to build an own synthetic corpus out of it that is used by the system to train itself. Then a bilingual s-p corpus is synthesized to enable a p-t translation.\n\nA direct comparison between triangulation and transfer methods for SMT systems has shown that triangulation achieves much better results than transfer.\n\nAll three pivot language techniques enhance the performance of SMT systems. However, the \"synthetic\" technique doesn't work well with RBMT, and systems' performances are lower than expected. Hybrid SMT/RBMT systems achieve better translation quality than strict-SMT systems that rely on bad parallel corpora.\n\nThe key role of RBMT systems is that they help fill the gap left in the translation process of s-p → p-t, in the sense that these parallels are included in the SMT model for s-t.\n\n"}
{"id": "1854849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854849", "title": "Dissolution of the Parliament of the United Kingdom", "text": "Dissolution of the Parliament of the United Kingdom\n\nThe Parliament of the United Kingdom is dissolved 25 working days before a polling day as determined by the Fixed-term Parliaments Act 2011. This period was formerly 17 days, and the new 25-day period, operative for the first time in the General Election of 2015 (7 May), represents the longest United Kingdom election period without a parliament since 1924. Importantly, the Act does not affect the Sovereign's power to prorogue Parliament, under the \"Supplementary provisions\" of the Act.\n\nMembers of Parliament cease to be so, as soon as it is dissolved, and they may not enter the Palace of Westminster, although they and their staff continue to be paid until polling day. Parliament is usually prorogued or adjourned before it is dissolved. Parliament may continue to sit for a wash-up period of a few days after the prime minister has announced the date when Parliament will be dissolved, to finish some last items of parliamentary business.\n\nA royal proclamation is made summoning a new parliament, fixing the date when the new parliament is to assemble, and requiring the despatch of writs of summons to the Lords Spiritual and Temporal. Under the Fixed-term Parliaments Act, writs of election are now despached to the returning officers of each constituency automatically, by virtue of a provision contained in the statute (in concert with the fact that the royal proclamation no longer summons the holding of the election, but only the meeting of the new parliament). A general election must be held 17 days (excluding weekends and bank holidays) after the proclamation summoning Parliament is issued. By tradition, a copy of the royal proclamation is delivered by hand from the Privy Council Office to Mansion House in the City of London. It is then read out by the Common Cryer (also called Mace-bearer or Serjeant-at-Arms) of the City on the steps of the Royal Exchange in the heart of the City, having been handed to him by the Common Serjeant of the City, ahead of its being also read out in the London boroughs. This tradition was again carried out at the most recent dissolution, in May 2017.\n\nThe last dissolution of Parliament was on 6 November 2019, to make way for the general election to be held on 12 December 2019. It dissolved by royal proclamation under the advice of the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom.\n\n30 March 2015 was the first time Parliament had ever dissolved automatically, as opposed to being dissolved by royal proclamation (although provision was made by the Septennial Act 1715 for Parliament to dissolve automatically after seven, and later five years, in practice dissolution was always effected shortly before the end of the five-year period by means of a royal proclamation). Although Prime Minister David Cameron met the Queen on the day of the dissolution, the only business discussed was the calling of the new parliament, and not a request for a dissolution, as had happened at every such meeting historically, and the subsequent royal proclamation made on 30 March simply called for the holding of the next parliament (and therefore the holding of the general election).\n\nVia the provisions of the Early Parliamentary General Election Act 2019, Parliament was dissolved without passing the motion cited under the provisions of section 2(2) of the Fixed-term Parliaments Act 2011. The polling day has been fixed by the aforementioned Bill for 12 December, as under section 7(2) of the aforementioned Act of Parliament.\n\nPrior to the Fixed-term Parliaments Act 2011, each parliament would expire after a five-year term, as laid down in the Septennial Act 1715 (as amended by the Parliament Act 1911). This could, however, be overridden at a time of national emergency. The length of a parliament was extended on two occasions since 1911, once during each of the two World Wars. At any time the sovereign could dissolve Parliament and call a general election. In accordance with constitutional convention, the sovereign did not act independently, but at the request of the Prime Minister. Constitutional experts held that the monarch might refuse permission if a parliament had more than a year still to run and if another person could potentially command a majority in the House of Commons (see the Lascelles Principles), meaning that in practice a Prime Minister with a Commons majority and enjoying the support of his party had \"de facto\" authority to dissolve Parliament at a time of his choosing. Prior to 1918, it was the Cabinet who collectively sought permission from the monarch in order for Parliament to be dissolved. However, since 1918, the prime minister alone sought the permission of the sovereign.\n\nFixed term parliaments were introduced by the Fixed-term Parliaments Act 2011 following the Conservative – Liberal Democrat Coalition Agreement promulgated after the 2010 election, thereby abolishing the ability of the prime minister unilaterally to request an election prior to the expiry of the five-year term.\n\n"}
{"id": "1854850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854850", "title": "James Brokenshire", "text": "James Brokenshire\n\nJames Peter Brokenshire (born 8 January 1968) is a British politician who currently serves as Minister of State for Security at the Home Office. Brokenshire previously served as Secretary of State for Housing, Communities and Local Government from 2018 to 2019. A member of the Conservative Party, he has been the Member of Parliament (MP) for Old Bexley and Sidcup since 2010. Brokenshire was first elected as the MP for Hornchurch in 2005; he served in the Cameron Government as Minister for Security and Immigration at the Home Office (2014–2016) and in the May Government as Secretary of State for Northern Ireland (2016–2018), overseeing the Stormont deadlock.\n\nBorn in Southend-on-Sea, Essex, Brokenshire studied law at the University of Exeter before beginning work with a large international law firm. Deciding on a career in politics, he stood successfully as the Conservative candidate for the parliamentary constituency of Hornchurch in the 2005 general election. When his constituency was to be abolished in the boundary changes, he sought out another constituency to represent, failing to be selected in six constituencies until being selected for Old Bexley and Sidcup. He was elected MP for the area in 2010, on a campaign devoted to preventing the closure of accident and emergency services at Queen Mary's Hospital, Sidcup, a policy that he later did not deliver on.\n\nIn the frontbench team of David Cameron, he was Parliamentary Under-Secretary for Crime Reduction; in May 2011 was transferred to the position of Parliamentary Under-Secretary for Crime and Security. He oversaw the closure and privatisation of the Forensic Science Service and championed the Modern Slavery Bill. In February 2014, he was appointed Minister for Security and Immigration. In July 2016, under Theresa May's new cabinet, he was appointed to be Northern Ireland Secretary. He stood down from this role in January 2018 on health grounds and was replaced by Karen Bradley. In April 2018, he was appointed Secretary of State for Housing, Communities and Local Government following Sajid Javid's appointment to Home Secretary as a result of Amber Rudd's resignation.\n\nBrokenshire was born on 8 January 1968, in the town of Southend-on-Sea, Essex. His father was a council chief executive.\n\nHe was educated at Davenant Foundation Grammar School in Loughton and then at the Cambridge Centre for Sixth-form Studies. Brokenshire studied Law at the University of Exeter.\n\nBrokenshire subsequently worked as a partner at international law firm Jones Day. In this position, he advised on company law, mergers and acquisitions, and corporate finance transactions.\n\nBrokenshire was first elected at the 2005 general election to the parliamentary constituency of Hornchurch, defeating the Labour candidate and incumbent member John Cryer by 480 votes. The election itself resulted in a third successive term for Prime Minister Tony Blair and the Labour government. From 2005 to 2006, Brokenshire was a member of the House of Commons Constitutional Affairs Select Committee. From 2006 to 2010 he then served as the Shadow Minister for Crime Reduction.\n\nBrokenshire was aware that his constituency, Hornchurch, was to be dissolved for the next election. In November 2006, he applied for selection as the Conservative parliamentary candidate for Witham in Essex, but was defeated by Priti Patel. He simultaneously campaigned to be selected as Conservative candidate for the constituency of Hornchurch and Upminster, but in March 2007 was defeated there by Angela Watkinson.\n\nHe next applied for Gillingham and Rainham in July 2007, Grantham and Stamford in October 2007, North East Cambridgeshire in January 2008, and Maidstone and The Weald later that same month. He was unsuccessful in all of these attempts.\n\nDerek Conway, the member for the Conservative safe seat of Old Bexley and Sidcup in southeast London, was embroiled in an expenses scandal and resigned, after which Brokenshire put his name forward as a potential replacement. His competitors for the seat were Rebecca Harris, Katie Lindsay, and Julia Manning, and he was successful in gaining the selection for the seat in June 2008. He was described as a \"serial carpetbagger\" by a local single issue party, Independents to Save Queen Mary's Hospital.\n\nIn the 2010 general election, Brokenshire was elected for Old Bexley and Sidcup with 24,625 votes (53.93%), beating the Labour candidate Rick Everitt, in second place with 8,768 votes (19.21%). Voter turnout was 69.13%. Upon victory, Brokenshire announced that as per his pre-election pledges, his priority would be to prevent the proposed closure of accident and emergency services at local Queen Mary's Hospital, Sidcup. The hospital's A&E department was closed in November of the same year.\n\nWith no party gaining an overall majority in the House of Commons, the 2010 election resulted in the formation of a coalition government consisting of the Conservative and Liberal Democrat parties, led by Conservative Prime Minister David Cameron. The new PM appointed Brokenshire as Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for Crime Reduction in the Home Office.\nOne of his first moves was to initiate the closing of the United Kingdom's Forensic Science Service; it had been making operational losses of £2 million a month, and was predicted to go into administration in early 2011. Brokenshire stated his desire that there would be \"no continuing state interest in a forensics provider by March 2012\", with the service's role being taken on by private enterprise. Critics asserted that this move would result in the loss of hundreds of jobs and the degradation of forensic research and criminal justice, with an MPs enquiry chaired by Labour MP Andrew Miller criticising the manner in which the closure had been overseen.\n\nIn August 2010, Brokenshire called for the government to adopt a new approach to the war on drugs in Britain; he argued that they should focus on getting addicts off drugs, rather than minimising the effects of drug use, as the preceding Labour government had focused on.\n\nIn May 2011, Brokenshire's Home Office brief was changed from Crime Reduction to Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for Crime and Security following the resignation of Baroness Neville-Jones, although he was not appointed to the more senior rank of Minister of State.\nIn this position, he was responsible for updating plans to tackle terror content online. This move was seen as controversial by broadband companies and freedom of speech groups.\n\nIn the buildup to the 2012 Summer Olympics in London, he stated his belief that the games would be a \"great success\", largely due to the government's security measures. He also commented that \"I think it will bring Bexley together and the torch relay will be a fantastic event for the community ... I'm quite sure it will have a lasting impression.\"\n\nIn October 2013, Brokenshire published a draft of a proposed Modern Slavery Bill, designed to tackle slavery in the UK. He was quoted as saying that the Bill will \"send the strongest possible message to criminals that if you are involved in this disgusting trade in human beings, you will be arrested, you will be prosecuted and you will be locked up.\" Experts in the issue were sceptical of the Bill, believing that it had many shortcomings and was designed largely to enhance Theresa May's career. The bill was subsequently enacted as the Modern Slavery Act 2015.\n\nIn January 2014, Brokenshire called on National Rail to improve its services, after statistics were published revealing that rail services across Bexley Borough had worsened throughout 2013.\n\nBrokenshire assumed the enlarged role of Minister for Security and Immigration on 8 February 2014 following the resignation of Mark Harper.\n\nIn July 2016, under Theresa May's new cabinet, Brokenshire was appointed the Northern Ireland Secretary. On 16 January 2017, the Northern Ireland Executive collapsed following the resignation of Martin McGuinness as deputy First Minister one week earlier, and the refusal of Sinn Féin to nominate a successor. Brokenshire, as Northern Ireland Secretary, temporarily assumed the powers of the Executive and called for snap elections for the Northern Ireland Assembly, which took place on 2 March 2017.\n\nBrokenshire's comments in \"The Sunday Telegraph\" of 28 January 2017 sparked consternation in Northern Ireland:\n\nWriting in the \"Telegraph\", James Brokenshire, the Northern Ireland Secretary, concedes there is an apparent \"imbalance\" that has led to a \"disproportionate\" focus on criminal inquiries involving former soldiers. \"I am clear the current system is not working and we are in danger of seeing the past rewritten.\"\n\nRecently retired SDLP MLA Alban Maginness said that:\n\nFollowing a question from MP Sylvia Hermon, Brokenshire offered his \"clear and unequivocal\" support for the Lord Chief Justice Sir Declan Morgan. Sir Declan had earlier criticised Brokenshire for refusing funding for cases and thereby adding to case backlogs when Brokenshire refused to grant £10 million to pay for an inquest into the deaths of eleven civilians shot dead by British forces in 1971 in the Ballymurphy massacre.\n\nBrian Feeney in \"The Irish News\" accused Brokenshire of \"ineptitude ... [though] no one would give him the credit of even being aware of the coincidence of the date he chose, when British soldiers killed most innocent victims in Ireland.\" (see Bloody Sunday), while the \"Belfast Telegraph\" editorial accused the minister of \"playing a dangerous game\": \n\nThe Secretary of State ... has created further controversy around an already contentious subject. It is an unusual move and by doing so, he has opened himself up to allegations that he is taking sides. He has also put at risk the impartiality with which Secretaries of State are expected to deal with Northern Ireland affairs.\n\nBrokenshire resigned as Northern Ireland Secretary on 8 January 2018 on health grounds due to an upcoming lung operation. On 20 January it was announced that he had the operation and had been discharged from hospital.\n\nHis best piece of advice to people becoming Northern Ireland secretary is to \"get yourself a history book and read it.\"\n\nIn April 2018, Brokenshire was appointed as Secretary of State for Housing, Communities and Local Government following Sajid Javid's appointment as Home Secretary in the light of Amber Rudd's resignation after the Windrush scandal. After his appointment Brokenshire said it was \"a real honour\" to make a quick return to the cabinet.\n\nHours after taking on the new role Brokenshire appeared in Parliament and stated, after a question from Andrew Gwynne Labour's shadow communities secretary, that \"local government is in my blood\".\n\nHe piloted the Tenant Fees Act through Parliament which, among other regulations, caps the deposit a landlord or a letting agency may take from a new tenant and largely abolishes administration fees.\n\nOn Brexit, Brokenshire was believed to have voted to remain in the EU in the initial 2016 vote, but his position was seen as unclear later on.\n\nBrokenshire married Cathrine Anne Mamelok in 1999. They have two daughters and a son.\n\nHe has expressed support for the charity Cancer Research UK and in March 2013 publicly backed their Cell Slider website, calling on all of his constituents to get involved in the initiative.\n\nIn December 2017, Brokenshire noted blood in his cough and underwent testing that discovered that he had early stage lung cancer. He had the upper lobe of his right lung removed at Guy's Hospital and returned to Parliament five weeks later. Brokenshire said that he wanted to end the social stigma around lung cancer because, like fifteen percent of people with the disease, he has never smoked.\n\nA photograph accompanying a May 2019 interview showed two double ovens in the Brokenshires kitchen, leading to #fourovens humour.\n\n"}
{"id": "1854856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854856", "title": "Sybil (singer)", "text": "Sybil (singer)\n\nSybil Lynch, known simply as Sybil, is an American R&B and pop singer–songwriter. Sybil gained notable success in her career with songs during the mid-1980s into the mid-1990s. She is the cousin of former En Vogue singer Maxine Jones.\n\nSybil signed to Next Plateau Records in the USA (with a licensing deal with Champion Records in the UK) and began recording in 1986 with the release of her first single \"Falling In Love\". The record reached the top 30 on the R&B and Dance charts and began a successful career for Sybil, releasing her debut album \"Let Yourself Go\" a year later, which was a minor hit. Sybil achieved worldwide crossover hits with her cover versions of Dionne Warwick's hits \"Don't Make Me Over\" and \"Walk On By\", which were released in 1989 and 1990, respectively. The former became Sybil's biggest hit in the USA, peaking at #20, and was a #1 hit in New Zealand. \"Walk On By\" is still, to date, the highest charting position for this Burt Bacharach/Hal David classic in the UK, peaking at #6, closely followed by Gabrielle (#7). Sybil's second self-titled album became her biggest-selling album in the USA. She signed with PWL Records for the UK market for this album, a label she would be signed to until 1998.\n\nSybil's third album, \"Sybilization\" was released in the fall of 1990, but went largely unnoticed. In January 1993, Sybil achieved her most successful hit in the UK charts, with a cover of \"The Love I Lost\" peaking at #3; its follow-up \"When I'm Good and Ready\" peaked at #5. That same year, Sybil released two different albums: \"Doin' It Now!\" in North America and \"Good 'N' Ready\" in Europe. While sharing four songs on their track listing, \"Doin' It Now!\" has a more R&B/Soul sound, while \"Good N' Ready\" mixes her soul sound with Stock and Waterman-penned Europop. In the USA, \"The Love I Lost\" was released as a double A-side with the Sybil co-penned original \"You're The Love Of My Life\" as the first single of the album.\n\nIn 1997, Sybil terminated her contract with Next Plateau Records with a \"Greatest Hits\" album, and later that same year, she released her last album to date, \"Still A Thrill\", which was released in Europe and Japan only. Afterwards, Sybil kept a low profile, still touring and releasing new house/dance singles in the new millennium aimed at the club market. Sybil appeared on the UK version of the TV series \"Hit Me, Baby, One More Time\" in 2005 performing her hit \"When I'm Good and Ready\". She works in education, formerly teaching lyric & songwriting composition and creative writing, and is now a program coordinator and lead achievement coach at Guilford Technical Community College in Greensboro, N.C. Sybil still does gigs and releases the occasional single.\n\n\n\n\nHer song \"Make It Easy On Me\" was covered by Lisa Scott-Lee on the Steps album \"Steptacular\". The hook of the song \"Don't Make Me Over\" is sampled on the Caron Wheeler track \"I Adore You\". \"Let Yourself Go\" was sampled by Shinji Hosoe on the track \"Feeling Over\" for Namco's 1994 racing game Ridge Racer.\n\n"}
{"id": "1854859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854859", "title": "Gregory (lunar crater)", "text": "Gregory (lunar crater)\n\nGregory is a lunar impact crater on the far side of the Moon. It is named after the 17th century Scottish astronomer and mathematician James Gregory. It is located to the southeast of the crater Ibn Firnas, and north-northeast of Bečvář. About one crater diameter to the north is the smaller Morozov.\n\nThis is a worn and eroded crater formation. The northern rim is degraded due to impacts. Attached to the exterior of the southwest is Gregory Q, a satellite crater about the same size as Gregory. Within the interior is the remains of a small crater rim along the northwestern inner wall. To the east of Gregory and leading away to the southeast is a crater chain designated Catena Gregory.\n\nBy convention these features are identified on lunar maps by placing the letter on the side of the crater midpoint that is closest to Gregory.\n\n"}
{"id": "1854873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854873", "title": "William Bush", "text": "William Bush\n\nWilliam Bush may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1854880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854880", "title": "Richfield Township, Summit County, Ohio", "text": "Richfield Township, Summit County, Ohio\n\nRichfield Township is one of the nine townships of Summit County, Ohio, United States. The 2000 census found 5,424 people in the township, 2,138 of whom lived in the unincorporated portions of the township.\n\nLocated in the northwestern corner of the county, it borders the following townships and cities:\n\nThe village of Richfield is located in central Richfield Township.\n\nStatewide, other Richfield Townships are located in Henry and Lucas counties. It was given the name Richfield due to the large amount of \"Oxbalm\" or \"rich feed\" available to feed cattle.\n\nIt was formed in survey Town 4, Range 12 in the Connecticut Western Reserve.\n\nFrom 1974 to 1994, Richfield was the home to the Coliseum at Richfield. The Coliseum was home to the Cleveland Cavaliers (NBA), Cleveland Barons (NHL), Cleveland Crusaders (WHA), Cleveland Force (Major Indoor Soccer League) and Cleveland Thunderbolts (Arena Football League). The Coliseum was demolished in 1999.\n\nRichfield Township's land has been in the following counties:\n\nThe township is governed by a three-member board of trustees, who are elected in November of odd-numbered years to a four-year term beginning on the following January 1. Two are elected in the year after the presidential election and one is elected in the year before it. There is also an elected township fiscal officer, who serves a four-year term beginning on April 1 of the year after the election, which is held in November of the year before the presidential election. Vacancies in the fiscal officership or on the board of trustees are filled by the remaining trustees.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1854885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854885", "title": "Correia", "text": "Correia\n\nCorreia (Portuguese and Galician for \"leather strap\") is a surname, formerly also spelled Correa or Corrêa.\n\nIt may refer to:\n\nIsaiah Corréia \n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1854888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854888", "title": "Grigg (crater)", "text": "Grigg (crater)\n\nGrigg is a lunar impact crater that is located on the far side of the Moon. It lies in the northern outskirts of the huge walled plain Hertzsprung, to the southwest of the crater Fersman and southeast of Poynting. The rim of this crater is generally circular, with a small impact crater intruding into the eastern edge. A small crater fills the northwestern part of the interior floor.\n\nBy convention these features are identified on lunar maps by placing the letter on the side of the crater midpoint that is closest to Grigg.\n\n"}
{"id": "1854893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854893", "title": "Motherfuckers Be Trippin'", "text": "Motherfuckers Be Trippin'\n\nMotherfuckers Be Trippin' is a studio album by the American rock and roll band Supersuckers. It was released on April 22, 2003, on the band's own label, Mid-Fi Recordings. \n\nThe album's title comes from the name jokingly announced by the New Bomb Turks as the title of their upcoming album while on tour with Supersuckers. When the Supersuckers went into the studio to record their next album, they put it down as a working title as an inside joke.\n\n"}
{"id": "1854895", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854895", "title": "Bandar Torkaman", "text": "Bandar Torkaman\n\nBandar Torkaman (), formerly known as Bandar Shah (), is a city and capital of Torkaman County, Golestan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census its population was 45,045, in 9,755 families.\n\nBandar Torkaman is a port on the Caspian Sea. It is approximately from Tehran. Some west of Bandar Torkaman is the famous Ashooradeh Island.\n\nThe economy is based on agriculture, handicrafts, animal husbandry, fishing and tourism, with 50 percent of Iranian caviar being extracted near this port. Ashouradeh Island attracts many tourists. Bandar Torkaman is also called \"Cotton Island\". Cotton is grown abundantly in the harbor which makes Bandar Torkaman a strategic cotton-cultivator in the country.\n\nIn the past, the city was equipped with three big jetties and was used by the Allied Forces during the World War II for transportation of equipment. However, two jetties have sunk and presently, due to poor equipment and the gradual decline of water, Bandar Torkaman possesses only one jetty, is no longer bustling and is mostly used to communicate with Ashouradeh Island. \nDuring Norouz (New Iranian Year) and summers, this jetty is full of seasonal merchants who bring beautiful Turkman fabricated objects to the city for sale. Ashouradeh Island is a main attraction in the region.\n\nDuring the colder months of the year, the Gomishan lagoon, Bandar Torkaman's highly biodiverse wetland habitat, hosts many thousands of migrating birds from icy Siberia, far to the northeast, including cranes, ducks, storks and geese.\n\nCarpet-weaving is a major source of income for the inhabitants. Beautiful Turkmen cushions, carpets, prayer rugs, and felt mats woven in this region are not only sold in other cities within Iran but are also exported throughout the world (See Persian rugs). Turkmen cushions and carpets are famous for their ancient patterns. Jajim (rustic mats), and Palas (homespun woollen cloth), woven by local craftspeople, are yet further regional art-forms which showcase the time-honoured traditions and skills of the Turkmen of northeastern Iran, who share a common cultural heritage with their neighbours in nearby Turkmenistan.\n\nDuring the Ramadan mourning season the residents rejoice, feast, and spray rose water and perfume in the mosques. On the first day of Ramazan they cook special oily bread and distribute them in the mosques and to neighbors. Also on the night of Ghadr, the young ones receive presents from their elders, mostly in the form of cash. Then they go to the market and buy sweetmeats and candy and hold a feast in their homes.\n\nIn Bandar Torkaman, the 'Laleh' singing ceremony has been performed for many centuries. Women assemble and sing Laleh' which is a melancholy song. Its composer is unknown, but the song laments the hard life of brides in ancient times among Turkmans, historical events, love of life, and the pain of separation from the tribe and homeland. In old times the brides were separated from their natives tribes and were taken to distant regions by their husbands and often never again saw their parents. Thus in their loneliness it was the following charming and melancholy song which gave them comfort:\n\n\"Tell me if the mountain beside our village still stands? Are the jungles there still full of fruit? O white birds which are flying, tell me if my clan and friends are safe and sound.\"\n\nFor five days during Fitr or Qorban (sacrifice) holidays the Turkman rejoice and feast. They open their house gates to permit any stranger who is passing the town to step into the house and join their feast.\n\nWhen a child is being born they repeat the old proverb which says: \"\"If the newborn is a son he will become a farmer and if a girl she will become carpet weaver.\"\" This shows the importance they attach to farming and carpet weaving.\n\nIn the past, when Turkman tribesmen moved from one place to another, they did not carry some of their heavy belongings and instead buried them in graves; because of the sanctity of graveyards, nobody dared to steal the items.\n\nWhen courting, the groom-to-be must prepare a \"Qatlama\", which is a special sweetmeat. If the bride's family accepts the Qatlama, it means that they agree to the wedding. The family of the bride-groom adorns a camel with ornamented clothes and lays a litter on it to mount the bride over the animal and carry her to the groom's house. The camel is driven by a respected elder among the tribe and at times by the groom himself. However, with the arrival of cars, this tradition has been abandoned in most cities; but in remote mountainous regions such as Gelidagh, Maraveh tappeh, Dashli boroon and Kalaleh, the bride is still carried away according to the tradition.\n\nTurkmans hold an interesting ceremony for circumcision. On that occasion they hold a big feast and invite all their relatives, cook the famous Bulamaq and after cooking they mix it with sugar to sweeten it.\n\nIn this city, the people who arrive at the age of 63 hold a feast for having attained the age of the Islamic prophet Muhammad and kill a white sheep to serve the guests.\n\nThe Turkmans have varied dishes and in there is also a special place where a specific dish is cooked. Chekdirmeh and Soozmeh are the daily food of the Turkmans which are normally made of rice and oil. Among other dishes one can refer to are Chourba (Shourba), which is made of vegetable and boiled meat; Oonash, a soup made of dough strings or vermicelli; Qateqliash, which is a kind of soup made of yoghurt, rice and garlic; Swidliash, composed of milk and rice; Bulamaq, composed of oil and rice, and Qatoorqa, made of smoked and ground wheat, rice and sugar.\n\nTraditional dress includes a skin cap and a loose red garment called Doon for men, Kooyink a loose skirt for women, Yaliq (worn by women at home instead of chador), and Boorik, a hat worn by girls before marriage, are the only traditional items which have survived in this northern port. Normally after marriage the girl replaces Boorik with Alangi which is another hat.\n\nHorse racing is the most important recreation in Bandar Torkaman which takes place in the spring and autumn. The competition is held in the main racing field which is about 100 hectares in size. The horse racing competition in Bandar Torkaman has many admirers in the country, especially in Tehran and Gonbade Kavoos. Even fans from the Persian Gulf States visit Bandar Torkaman to watch the races.\nOne of the favorite sports among the Turkmans is the traditional Goorehesh wrestling in which two rivals wrestle with each other without age or weight limitation. They take hold of each other's belt and the one who succeeds to lay the rival's back on the ground is pronounced winner and receives a present called Bayraq, which is either a ram or ewe. Ram is a symbol of uprightness and bravery among Turkmans and is much respected by them. To praise the strength and valor of a youth, he is said to resemble a ram.\n\nDagger (sword) play is another popular sport among Turkman youth. This is a religious/mystical ceremony in which the youth wear loose colorful garments, congregate in a field and raise their hands on their heads in the form of prayer. The man who bears the sword sings musical odes with a charming voice and the ceremony continues until they tighten their circle into a knot. The sword bearer then raises the sword as a token of valor and other members firmly grasp each other's hands as a token of valor and solidarity.\n\n"}
{"id": "1854900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854900", "title": "Pepe Romero", "text": "Pepe Romero\n\nPepe Romero (born March 8, 1944, in Málaga, Spain) is a classical and flamenco guitarist. He is particularly noted for his outstanding technique and colorful musical interpretations on the instrument.\n\nPepe Romero was born in Spain, the second son of celebrated guitarist and composer Celedonio Romero, who was his only guitar teacher. His first professional appearance was in a shared concert with his father at the Teatro Lope de Vega, Seville, when Pepe was only seven years old, playing a gavotte by Bach and \"Sevilla\" by Albéniz. In 1957 Celedonio Romero left Franco's Spain for the United States with his singer actress wife, Angelita, and his three sons, Celin, Pepe and Angel, settling in the San Diego area.\n\nRomero served as guitar professor at the University of Southern California, Southern Methodist University, University of San Diego and University of California at San Diego, before taking up the post of adjunct professor at USC Thornton School of Music.\n\nRomero published a guitar method, \"La Guitarra\", in 2012.\n\nIn 1959, Pepe made his first recording, featuring traditional flamenco music of his native Andalucia. At 16, he performed for the first time in Los Angeles, playing flamenco with his father and brothers Celin and Angel.\n\nAs a soloist Pepe Romero has appeared in the United States, Canada, Europe, China, the Middle-East, Japan, and Australia with, variously, the London, Toronto, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Chicago, Houston, Pittsburgh, Boston, San Francisco and Dallas symphony orchestras, as well as with the Orpheus Chamber Orchestra, the New York, Bogotá and Los Angeles philharmonic orchestras, the Boston Pops Orchestra, the Hong Kong Sinfonietta, the Academy of St Martin in the Fields, the Monte-Carlo Philharmonic Orchestra, I Musici, the Zurich Chamber Orchestra, the Philharmonia Hungarica, the Hungarian State Orchestra, the Spanish National Orchestra, the Spanish National Radio/Television Orchestra, the Orchestre de la Suisse Romande, the New Moscow Chamber Orchestra, the Springfield Symphony Orchestra, the Lausanne Chamber Orchestra, the American Sinfonietta, and the Bournemouth Symphony Orchestra. He has been a special guest at the festivals of Salzburg, Israel, Schleswig-Holstein, Menuhin, Osaka, Granada, Istanbul, Ravinia, Garden State, Hollywood Bowl, Blossom, Wolf Trap, Saratoga and Hong Kong.\n\nRomero has recorded over 60 albums, including 20 concerti with the Academy of St Martin in the Fields, and 30 albums as part of the famed guitar quartet The Romeros. He has played for Presidents Carter and Nixon, the Queen of the Netherlands, the Prince of Wales and Pope John Paul II. He has numerous international recording awards to his credit and has received an Honorary Doctorate in Music from the University of Victoria, British Columbia, Canada.\n\nHis contributions to the field of classical guitar have inspired a number of distinguished composers to write works specifically for him, including Joaquín Rodrigo, Federico Moreno Torroba, Francisco de Madina, Lorenzo Palomo, Michael Zearott, Paul Chihara, Enrique Diemecke, Ernesto Cordero and Celedonio Romero. He was personally chosen by the legendary Andrés Segovia for the world premiere of Torroba's \"Diálogos entre guitarra y orquesta\".\n\nOf performing, Romero said,\n\n\"Music makes us communicate through our soul, and if you can leave the theatre feeling that connection, that’s what I want more than anything.\"\nAlthough originally a classical guitarist, he is talented in flamenco and a popular flamenco performer. His most famous flamenco-only album is called \"¡Flamenco Fenómeno!\"\n\n\nFor contribution to the arts, he received the \"Premio Andalucía de la Músicahe\" in June 1996.\n\nOn February 11, 2000, King Juan Carlos I of Spain knighted Pepe Romero and his brothers, Celin and Angel, into the Order of Isabella the Catholic. The official ceremony of this high honor took place at the USC Thornton School of Music, and included a gala performance by The Romeros with the Thornton Chamber Orchestra. He is currently Adjunct Professor of Classical Guitar at the Thornton School, where he was named \"Distinguished Artist in Residence\" in 2004.\n\nIn 2007, the Romero Quartet received the President's Merit Award from the Recording Academy, the producers of the Grammy Awards, and, in November 2012, Romero's recording of \"Concierto festivo\" by Ernesto Cordero was nominated for Best Classical Album at the Latin Grammy Awards.\n\nInitially, Romero shared his father’s Santos Hernandez. In 1958, he bought a Miguel Rodriguez from Córdoba which he played until 1969. He then played a Hermann Hauser II before finally, in 1973, obtaining another Rodriguez which was his principal instrument until at least 2014.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1854905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854905", "title": "Press-Register", "text": "Press-Register\n\nThe Press-Register (known from 1997 to 2006 as the Mobile Register) is a thrice-weekly newspaper serving the southwest Alabama counties of Mobile and Baldwin. The newspaper is a descendant of one founded in 1813, making the \"Press-Register\" Alabama's oldest newspaper. It is owned by Advance Publications, which also owns the primary newspapers in Birmingham, Alabama and Huntsville, Alabama. The \"Press-Register\" had a daily publication schedule since the inception of its predecessors in the early 1800s until September 30, 2012, at which time it and its sister papers reduced to print editions only on Wednesday, Fridays and Sundays. The \"Press Register\" also publishes an edition for the Mississippi Gulf Coast, \"The Mississippi Press\".\n\n\"The Mobile Gazette\" was founded and began publication shortly after Mobile was captured by United States troops in April 1813 after 33 years under Spanish rule. Another Mobile-based newspaper would begin publishing on December 10, 1821 as \"The Mobile Commercial Register\" by former Boston, Massachusetts resident and Savannah, Georgia merchant Jonathan Battelle, along with John W. Townsend of a Montgomery, Alabama newspaper. One year later, the \"Gazette\" was taken over by the \"Register\", making it a good purchase for one Thaddeus Sanford in 1828. Under Sanford, the \"Mobile Patriot\" newspaper was bought out, thus becoming part of the daily \"Mobile Daily Commercial Register and Patriot\" in 1832. The \"Register\" is sold yet again in 1837, this time to Epapheas Kibby and Mobile attorney John Forsyth Jr., who would have a 40-year relationship with the paper until his death in 1877. The \"New York Times'\" eulogy for Forsyth included the phrase, \"most important Democratic editor of the South\". Mobile's yellow fever epidemic forced the \"Register\" to publish only three times a week in 1839. Once Sanford reclaimed what he purchased years before, he combined the \"Register\" with the \"Merchants and Planters Journal\", resulting in \"The Mobile Register and Journal\" in 1841. Communication's latest innovation the telegraph became the \"Register\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s means of receiving news in 1848. After C.A. and C.M. Bradford's purchase of the \"Register\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s one-half interest, the paper was renamed \"The Mobile Daily Register\" in 1849. Forsyth once again bought back the \"Register\" in 1854. Future Confederate colonel and Kentucky poet Theodore O'Hara joined the \"Register\" shortly before the American Civil War. Swiss-born propagandist for the Confederacy Henry Hotze also worked for the paper for a time before the war.\n\nIt would take the conflict beginning in 1861 to combine the \"Mobile Daily Register\" and competitor \"The Mobile Daily Advertiser\" to form \"The Mobile Daily Advertiser and Register\". About three years after the war, the \"Register\" was sold and combined again, this time to William d'Alton Mann of \"The Mobile Times\" and \"The Mobile Daily Register\". Isaac Donovan's arrival as the \"Register\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s new owner in 1871 marked the beginning of a new era for the stable newspaper, including a new position for editor Charles Carter Langdon. Langdon would become the \"Register\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s agricultural editor, giving him the opportunity to promote scientific approaches in the field. In life, Langdon served as mayor of Mobile, an Alabama state legislator, and a trustee of the Alabama Agricultural and Mechanical College in Auburn. Today Langdon's contributions to what would be Auburn University are honored at the hall named for him in 1846. In 1872, the \"Register\" incorporates as The Register Printing association. During John Forsyth, Jr.'s final years, he, along with John L. Rapier formed a partnership to operate the \"Register\". After Forsyth's death, Rapier became principal owner. Telephones would become available at the \"Register\" in 1883, along with electric light a year later. Rapier organized the stock company The Register Co. to publish the paper in 1889. Erwin S. Craighead, who would later be known as \"Mobile's newspaperman\" began his long career at the \"Register\" as the city editor in 1884 before earning the position of editor in chief in 1892.\n\nThroughout Craighead's tenure until retirement in 1927, he was supportive of the former Confederacy and the Union reconciling, along with economic and commercial development. As the 19th century was coming to a close, the \"Register\" began using six Linotype typesetting machines in 1893, which were used for many decades until the \"cold type\" age began in 1974. Photographs began appearing in the \"Register\" during the 1890s.\n\nIn 1905, company president John L. Rapier dies, allowing his son Paul to take his position at Rapier and Company, leading up to the next name change from \"The Daily Register\" to \"The Mobile Register\". Five years later, Frederick I. Thompson became the new owner of the \"Register\". \"The Mobile Item\" would be the next newspaper to operate under the Mississippi native, who owned a chain of newspapers in Alabama, but it would remain an afternoon paper under the name \"The Mobile News-Item\" starting in 1916. Publisher Ralph B. Chandler's afternoon newspaper \"The Mobile Press\" began publication on April 15, 1929 inside a former church on Jackson and St. Michael Street in downtown Mobile. Thompson suffered financially during The Great Depression, allowing his competitor to buy out \"The Mobile Register\" in 1932. The Mobile Daily Newspapers Incorporated was established to publish the \"Register\" as a morning paper, the \"Press\" as an afternoon paper, and both papers are combined as the weekend paper \"The Mobile Press Register\". For the \"Press\" to continue, the \"Mobile News-Item\" had to end publication. The year 1944 had moments good and bad for the \"Press Register\", starting with a fire stopping the presses for a brief period of time, but with help from the Army Air Corps and a New Orleans printing facility, the newspaper continued publishing. On October 1, 1944, \"The Mobile Press Register\" began publication at its new facility on 304 Government Street in downtown Mobile after years on St. Louis and Hamilton. \"No effort has been spared to make it 100% efficient\", as the front page article stated that day. George M. Cox was the first \"Press Register\" editor to work in the building.\n\nFrom 1948 to the end of the 1950s, the \"Press Register\" owned radio station WABB. During the 1950s, the \"Press Register\" started its own photograph department under chief photographer Billy Lavender, who used the large Speed Graphic press camera. The \"Honolulu Advertiser\" received the \"Press Register\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s old press machines in 1955, as the Goss Headliner press machine began operation within the \"Press Register\" building for the next 47 years. At the time of its arrival, the Goss Headliner was commonly referred to as, \"the most modern [press machine] to be found anywhere in the world\". Longtime TV partner WKRG-TV went on the air in 1955. S.I. Newhouse's newspaper group bought out \"The Mobile Press Register\" in 1966. \"Mobile Press\" founder and \"Press Register\" publisher Ralph Chandler would die in 1970, giving William J. Hearin the positions of president and publisher. In December 1978, video display terminals became a fixture in the \"Press Register\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s newsroom. On September 12, 1979, Hurricane Frederic made its arrival on the Alabama Gulf Coast, stopping the \"Press Register\" from publication for two days. Baldwin County's own paper \"The Baldwin Press Register\" began publication in 1988.\n\nIn 1992, Howard Bronson, formerly of the \"Shreveport Times\", became publisher of the \"Mobile Press Register\" with a mission for the paper to \"reinvent itself as one of the most well-written, high profile news sources in the South\". That same year, Stanley R. Tiner, former editor of the defunct \"Shreveport Journal\", became the editor and vice president of news. He held that position for seven years until managing editor Michael Marshall succeeded him in 1999. One year after Bronson's arrival, sports editor Ben Nolan retired after more than forty-five years in the sports department. Nolan died in 2001, as did former publisher William Hearin. Three members of the \"Press Register\" staff were named finalists for the Pulitzer Prize in 1995 after a series of editorials on reforming the Alabama Constitution. On January 31, 1997, the afternoon \"Mobile Press\" ended publication, but the name lived on in the corporate title The Mobile Press Register Inc. The name continued to appear in the weekly \"Suburban\", \"Points South\", and \"Points North\" sections of the \"Register\" available to certain areas of Mobile County.\n\nAfter almost 58 years on Government Street, the \"Mobile Register\" moved to its current modern facility on Water Street in June 2002. Days before the big move, the \"Register\" switched to the new MAN Roland AG printing press, which is viewable from large windows stretching from top to bottom on the new building. This location within historic DeTonti Square and the City of Mobile's business district was chosen as part of an effort to revitalize the downtown area and southwest Alabama. Also that summer, the \"Register\" printed ballots for its first ever Reader's Choice Awards, where readers can choose their favorite local attractions, food, people, and much more.\n\nIn September 2004, the \"Register\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s new found strength within its 2-year-old building was put to the test when Hurricane Ivan rolled across the Gulf Coast and into the northeast. Unlike \"Frederic\", the \"Register\" continued operation during and after the storm's arrival. Less than a year later, Hurricane Katrina devastated the Gulf Coast as it made landfall on August 29, 2005, along the Louisiana-Mississippi border, knocking out power and communications throughout the region. After floodwaters swept into downtown Mobile and knocked out power to the \"Register's\" building, a special Hurricane Edition of the \"Mobile Register\" was published at the \"Pensacola News Journal\" facility on August 30, 2005. Subsequent editions were published in Birmingham while utilities came back on line in the days immediately following the storm. In the devastating aftermath of Katrina's assault on New Orleans, the \"Times-Picayune\" was published at the \"Register\" facility, and transported daily to New Orleans. During this time, the \"Register\" also housed employees of the \"Mississippi Press,\" whose offices were wiped out by the storm. In the weeks and months following the hurricane, the Water Street headquarters published three daily newspapers at its facility – the \"Mobile Register\", \"Times-Picayune\" and \"Mississippi Press\".\n\nOn April 2, 2006, the \"Register\" restored the \"Press-Register\" name, something that has stayed with longtime residents in south Alabama over nine years after \"The Mobile Press\" ceased publication. Besides being a welcome sight for long-time readers, the return of the \"Press-Register\" name reflects the newspaper's expansion into Mobile's surrounding areas. The twice-a-week \"Mobile County Neighbors\" section replaces the area-specific sections that appeared every Thursday. Stock market coverage was reduced to daily summaries and a Saturday recap of the week's events, including four pages of stock and mutual fund listings.\n\nThe circulation of the Mobile \"Press-Register\" is just over 94,000 daily readers for Monday to Saturday and 111,368 for Sunday, making the \"Press-Register\" the second-most-read newspaper in Alabama.\n\nThe single copy rates are: Wednesday/Friday, $1.5 & Sunday/day after Thanksgiving Day, $3.\n\nThe Mississippi Press is the Mississippi edition of the \"Press-Register\", headquartered in Pascagoula. Its website is http://www.gulflive.com/mississippipress/\n\nIn 2012, Advance Publications announced that \"The Press-Register,\" along with its sister papers in New Orleans, Birmingham and Huntsville, would reduce their print-edition publication schedule to Wednesdays, Fridays and Sundays, with coverage on other days provided by their website, al.com. The change results in roughly half of the newspaper's staff being laid off. The change in schedule took effect on September 30, making the following day the first time since at least 1832 the Mobile had been without a daily newspaper. It is currently the third-largest city in the nation as such, behind New Orleans and Birmingham.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1854907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854907", "title": "Clément Janequin", "text": "Clément Janequin\n\nClément Janequin (c. 1485 – 1558) was a French composer of the Renaissance. He was one of the most famous composers of popular chansons of the entire Renaissance, and along with Claudin de Sermisy, was hugely influential in the development of the Parisian chanson, especially the programmatic type. The wide spread of his fame was made possible by the concurrent development of music printing.\n\nJanequin was born in Châtellerault, near Poitiers, though no documents survive which establish any details of his early life or training. His career was highly unusual for his time, in that he never had a regular position with a cathedral or an aristocratic court. Instead he held a series of minor positions, often with important patronage. In 1505 he was employed as a clerk in Bordeaux, to Lancelot du Fau, who eventually became Bishop of Luçon; he retained this position until du Fau's death in 1523, at which time he took a position with the Bishop of Bordeaux. Around this time he became a priest, though his appointments were rarely lucrative; indeed he always complained about money.\n\nAfter 1530 Janequin held a succession of posts in Anjou, beginning as a singing teacher to the choirboys at the cathedral at Auch, and progressing to \"maître de chapelle\" at the singing school at Angers Cathedral. Around this time he attracted the attention of Jean de Guise, the patron of Erasmus, Clément Marot, and Rabelais; it was a welcome career boost, and, in 1548, with the additional assistance of Charles de Ronsard (the brother of poet Pierre de Ronsard), he became curate at Unverre, not far from Chartres. During this time he lived in Paris. By 1555 he was listed as a \"singer ordinary\" of the king's chapel, and shortly thereafter became \"composer ordinary\" to the king: only one composer (Sandrin, also known as Pierre Regnault) had previously had this title. In his will, dated January 1558, he left a small estate to charity, and he complained again of age and poverty in a dedication to a work published posthumously in 1559. He died in Paris.\n\nFew composers of the Renaissance were more popular in their lifetimes than Janequin. His chansons were well-loved and widely sung. The Paris printer Pierre Attaingnant printed five volumes with his chansons. \"La bataille\", which vividly depicts the sounds and activity of a battle, is a perennial favorite of \"a cappella\" singing groups even in the present day.\n\nJanequin wrote very little liturgical music: only two masses and a single motet are attributed to him, though more may have been lost. His 250 secular chansons and his (over 80) psalm settings and \"chansons spirituelles\" — the French equivalent of the Italian \"madrigale spirituale\" — were his primary legacy.\n\nThe programmatic chansons for which Janequin is famous were long, sectional pieces, and usually cleverly imitated natural or man-made sounds. \"Le chant des oiseaux\" imitates bird-calls; \"La chasse\" the sounds of a hunt; and \"La bataille\" (\"Escoutez tous gentilz\"), probably the most famous, and almost certainly written to celebrate the French victory over the Swiss Confederates at the Battle of Marignano in 1515, imitates battle noises, including trumpet calls, cannon fire and the cries of the wounded. Onomatopoeic effects such as these became a commonplace in later 16th century music, and carried over into the Baroque era; indeed \"battle music\" was to become a cliché, but it first came into prominence with Janequin.\n\nIn addition to the programmatic chansons for which he is most famous, he also wrote short and refined compositions more in the style of Claudin de Sermisy. For these he set texts by some of the prominent poets of the time, including Clément Marot. Late in his life he wrote the Psalm settings based on Genevan tunes. Since there is no documentary evidence, the question of whether he sympathized with the Protestants remains unanswered.\n\nFrench composer Jehan Alain composed a piece for organ based on a theme by Janequin (\"Variations sur un thème de Clément Janequin\", 1937)\n\n\n\n—, Le caquet des femmes. Rouart, Paris 1925\n—, Les cris de Paris, Florilège du concert vocal de la Renaissance. (3) 1928\n—, Quinze chansons du XVIe siècle. 1926\n—, Un psaumes à quatre voix. Dans \"Cauchie Maurice, \"Mélanges de musicologie offerts à M. Lionel de La Laurencie\", Droz, Paris 1933\n—, chansons (Attaingnant 1528). in \"Maîtres musiciens de la Renaissance française\" (VII) 1898\n—, 31 chansons d'Attaingnant. in \"Maîtres musiciens de la Renaissance française\" ( V), Paris 1897 [5 chansons]\n—, La Fleur des musiciens de P. de Ronsard. Paris 1923 [trois chansons ; édité précédemment par Jean Tiersot dans \"Sammelbände der Internationalen Musikgesellschaft (IV) 1902 / 1903, p. 119-128]\n—, L'alouette (avec les 5 voix de Claude Le Jeune). Leduc, Paris 1900\n—, Répertoire populaire de la musique de Renaissance. Senart, Paris 1914 [ Hélas mon dieu]\n—, Messe La Bataille. Salabert, Paris 1947\n—, Florilège du concert vocal de la Renaissance. (1) 1928 (4 chansons)\n—, Anthologie de la chansons parisienne au XVIe. Éditions de l'Oiseau-Lyre; Monaco 1952 [5 chansons]\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1854908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854908", "title": "Girls in Love (TV series)", "text": "Girls in Love (TV series)\n\nGirls in Love is a British teen drama television series produced by Granada Television which aired on CITV. It is based on the novel of the same name, both created by English author Jacqueline Wilson. The show ran for two series from 1 April 2003 to 20 May 2005. It was filmed in Manchester.\n\nThree teenage girls—Ellie (Hallinan), Magda (Abrahams) and Nadine (Kwolek)—are best friends that go through the somewhat weird and wonderful world of boys together. The show is narrated by Ellie, and usually portrays her life events in her sketchbook, which blends the show's live action with animation in a similar manner to the American teen sitcom \"Lizzie McGuire\". She lives with her dad and his girlfriend (later wife) Anna, and her baby half-brother Benedict \"Eggs\".\n\n\nThe show has received criticism from fans of the book, much of it due to Ellie and Magda's appearances. In the book, Ellie is short, bespectacled, chubby, frizzy-haired, whereas in the television series, she is taller, thinner, has straight hair and does not wear glasses. Magda was also portrayed differently—in the series she is black with dark hair; in the book, she is white and has dyed red hair. Also in the book Ellie has a younger brother Eggs who is five years old; however, in the series Eggs is not born til later on.\n\n\"Girls in Love\" was repeated for the first time since 2005 on CITV's digital channel from September 2010. The TV series was also repeated on Australia's children channel ABC3 in 2010 and most recently repeated in June 2016.\n\n"}
{"id": "1854909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854909", "title": "Challacolloite", "text": "Challacolloite\n\nChallacolloite, KPbCl, is a rare halide mineral. It crystallizes in the monoclinic system and occurs as white fumarolic encrustations on lava. It occurs as intergrowths with cotunnite.\n\nIt was first described from a finding at the Challacollo Mine, Iquique, Chile and thereafter identified in specimens from the 1855 Mount Vesuvius eruption and from the Kudryavyi volcano in the Kuriles and also from the Satsuma-Iwojima volcano in Japan. It was recognized as a valid mineral species by the IMA (International Mineralogical Association) in 2005.\n\nArtificially grown KPbCl crystals are used for lasers.\n"}
{"id": "1854919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854919", "title": "Religious naturalism", "text": "Religious naturalism\n\nReligious naturalism combines a naturalist worldview with ideals, perceptions, traditions, and values that have been traditionally associated with many religions or religious institutions. \"Religious naturalism is a perspective that finds religious meaning in the natural world and rejects the notion of a supernatural realm.\" The term \"religious\" in this context is construed in general terms, separate from the traditions, customs, or beliefs of any one of the established religions. \n\nAreas of inquiry include attempts to understand the natural world and the spiritual and moral implications of naturalist views. Understanding is based on knowledge obtained through scientific inquiry, and insights from the humanities and the arts. Religious naturalists use these perspectives when they respond to personal and social challenges (e.g. finding purpose, seeking justice, coming to terms with mortality) and concerning the natural world.\n\nAll forms of religious naturalism, being naturalistic in their basic beliefs, assert that the natural world is the center of our most significant experiences and understandings. Consequently, Nature is looked at as the ultimate value in assessing one's being. Despite having followed differing cultural and individual paths, religious naturalists affirm the human need for meaning and value in their lives. They draw on two fundamental convictions in those quests: the sense of Nature's richness, spectacular complexity, and fertility, and the recognition that Nature is the only realm in which people live out their lives. Humans are considered interconnected to various parts of Nature.\n\nScience is a fundamental, indispensable component of the paradigm of religious naturalism. It relies on mainstream science to reinforce religious and spiritual perspectives. Science is the primary interpretive tool for religious naturalism because scientific methods provide the most reliable understanding of Nature and the world, including human nature.\n\nReligious naturalists use the term \"religious\" to refer to an attitude of being appreciative of and interested in concerns that have long been a part of religions.\nThese include:\n\nAs the source of all that is and the reason why all things are as they are, the natural world can be of utmost importance.\n\nAs in other religious orientations, religious naturalism includes a central story, a modern creation myth, to describe humanity and its place in the world. This story begins with the Big Bang and the emergence of galaxies, stars, planets, life, and evolution that led to the emergence of human beings. Taking this insight into the being and origin of humans, religious naturalists look to the natural world, as the source of human intelligence and inclinations, for information and insights that may help to understand and respond to unanswered philosophical questions such as : \n\n\nFurthermore, religious naturalists try to find ways to minimize problems (both internally and externally), to allow us to better ourselves, and relate to others and the world we are part of.\n\nWhen discussing distinctions between religious naturalists and secular naturalists, Loyal Rue said: \"I regard a religious or spiritual person to be one who takes ultimate concerns to heart.\" He noted that, while \"plain old\" naturalists are concerned with morals and may have emotional responses to the mysteries and wonders of the world, those who describe themselves as religious naturalists take it more \"to heart\" and show an active interest in this area.\n\nCore themes in religious naturalism have been present, in varied cultures, for centuries. But active discussion, with the use of this name, is relatively recent.\n\nZeno (c. 334 – c. 262 BCE, a founder of Stoicism) said:\n\nViews consistent with religious naturalism can be seen in ancient Daoist texts (e.g., \"Dao De Jing\") and some Hindu views (such as God as Nirguna Brahman, God without attributes). They may also be seen in Western images that do not focus on active, personal aspects of God, such as Thomas Aquinas' view of God as Pure Act, Augustine's God as Being Itself, and Paul Tillich's view of God as Ground of Being. As Wesley Wildman has described, views consistent with religious naturalism have long existed as part of the underside of major religious traditions, often quietly and sometimes in mystical strands or intellectual sub-traditions, by practitioners who are not drawn to supernatural claims.\n\nThe earliest uses of the term, religious naturalism, seem to have occurred in the 1800s. In 1846, the \"American Whig Review\" described \"a seeming 'religious naturalism'\", In 1869, American Unitarian Association literature adjudged:\"Religious naturalism differs from this mainly in the fact that it extends the domain of nature farther outward into space and time. ...It never transcends nature\". Ludwig Feuerbach wrote that religious naturalism was \"the acknowledgment of the Divine in Nature\" and also \"an element of the Christian religion\", but by no means that religion's definitive \"characteristic\" or \"tendency\".\n\nMordecai Kaplan (1881–1983), one of the great rabbis of the 20th century and the founder of the Jewish Reconstructionist movement, was an early advocate of religious naturalism. He believed that a naturalistic approach to religion and ethics was possible in a desacralizing world. He saw God as the sum of all-natural processes.\n\nOther verified usages of the term came in 1940 from George Perrigo Conger and from Edgar S. Brightman. Shortly thereafter, H. H. Dubs wrote an article entitled \"Religious Naturalism – an Evaluation\" , which begins \"Religious naturalism is today one of the outstanding American philosophies of religion...\" and discusses ideas developed by Henry Nelson Wieman in books that predate Dubs's article by 20 years.\n\nIn 1991 Jerome A. Stone wrote \"The Minimalist Vision of Transcendence\" explicitly \"to sketch a philosophy of religious naturalism\". Use of the term was expanded in the 1990s by Loyal Rue, who was familiar with it from Brightman's book. Rue used the term in conversations with several people before 1994, and subsequent conversations between Rue and Ursula Goodenough [both of whom were active in the Institute on Religion in an Age of Science (IRAS) led to Goodenough's use in her book \"The Sacred Depths of Nature\" and by Rue in \"Religion is Not About God\" and other writings. Since 1994 numerous authors have used the phrase or expressed similar thinking. Examples include Chet Raymo, Stuart Kauffman and Karl E. Peters.\nMike Ignatowski states that \"there were many religious naturalists in the first half of the 20th century and some even before that\" but that \"religious naturalism as a movement didn't come into its own until about 1990 [and] took a major leap forward in 1998 when Ursula Goodenough published \"The Sacred Depths of Nature\", which is considered one of the founding texts of this movement.\"\n\nBiologist Ursula Goodenough states:\nDonald Crosby's \"Living with Ambiguity\" published in 2008, has, as its first chapter, \"Religion of Nature as a Form of Religious Naturalism\".\n\nLoyal Rue's \"Nature is Enough\" published in 2011, discusses \"Religion Naturalized, Nature Sanctified\" and \"The Promise of Religious Naturalism\".\n\"Religious Naturalism Today: The Rebirth of a Forgotten Alternative\" is a history by Dr. Jerome A. Stone (Dec. 2008 release) that presents this paradigm as a once-forgotten option in religious thinking that is making a rapid revival. It seeks to explore and encourage religious ways of responding to the world on a completely naturalistic basis without a supreme being or ground of being. This book traces this history and analyzes some of the issues dividing religious naturalists. It covers the birth of religious naturalism, from George Santayana to Henry Nelson Wieman and briefly explores religious naturalism in literature and art. Contested issues are discussed including whether nature's power or goodness is the focus of attention and also on the appropriateness of using the term \"God\". The contributions of more than twenty living religious naturalists are presented. The last chapter ends the study by exploring what it is like on the inside to live as a religious naturalist.\n\nChet Raymo writes that he had come to the same conclusion as Teilhard de Chardin: \"Grace is everywhere\", and that naturalistic emergence is in everything and far more magical than religion-based miracles. A future humankind religion should be ecumenical, ecological, and embrace the story provided by science as the \"most reliable cosmology\".\n\nAs P. Roger Gillette summarizes:\nDue to the high importance placed on nature, some religious naturalists have a strong sense of stewardship for the Earth. Luther College professor Loyal Rue has written:\nReligious naturalists will be known for their reverence and awe before Nature, their love for Nature and natural forms, their sympathy for all living things, their guilt for enlarging the ecological footprints, their pride in reducing them, their sense of gratitude directed towards the matrix of life, their contempt for those who abstract themselves from natural values, and their solidarity with those who link their self-esteem to sustainable living.\n\nThe literature related to religious naturalism includes many variations in conceptual framing. This reflects individual takes on various issues, to some extent various schools of thought, such as basic naturalism, religious humanism, pantheism, panentheism, and spiritual naturalism that have had time on the conceptual stage, and to some extent differing ways of characterizing Nature.\n\nThe current discussion often relates to the issue of whether belief in a God or God-language and associated concepts have any place in a framework that treats the physical universe as its essential frame of reference and the methods of science as providing the preeminent means for determining what Nature is. There are at least three varieties of religious naturalism, and three similar but somewhat different ways to categorize them. They are:\n\nThe first category has as many sub-groups as there are distinct definitions for god. Believers in a supernatural entity (transcendent) are by definition not religious naturalists, however the matter of a naturalistic concept of God (Immanence) is currently debated. Strong atheists are not considered religious naturalists in this differentiation. Some individuals call themselves religious naturalists but refuse to be categorized. The unique theories of religious naturalists Loyal Rue, Donald A. Crosby, Jerome A. Stone, and Ursula Goodenough are discussed by Michael Hogue in his 2010 book\" The Promise of Religious Naturalism\".\n\nGod concepts\n\nStone emphasizes that some religious naturalists do not reject the concept of God, but if they use the concept, it involves a radical alteration of the idea such as Gordon Kaufman who defines God as creativity.\n\nIgnatowski divides religious naturalism into only two types—theistic and non-theistic.\n\nThere are several principles shared by the aforementioned varieties of religious naturalism:\n\nThe concept of emergence has grown in popularity with many religious naturalists. It helps explain how a complex Universe and life by self-organization have risen out of a multiplicity of relatively simple elements and their interactions. The entire story of emergence is related in the Epic of Evolution—the mythic scientific narrative used to tell the verifiable chronicle of the evolutionary process that is the Universe. Most religious naturalists consider the Epic of Evolution a true story about the historic achievement of Nature. \"The Epic of Evolution is the 14 billion year narrative of cosmic, planetary, life, and cultural evolution—told in sacred ways. Not only does it bridge mainstream science and a diversity of religious traditions; if skillfully told, it makes the science story memorable and deeply meaningful, while enriching one's religious faith or secular outlook.\"\n\nMany naturalistic writers have used this theme as a topic for their books using such synonyms as: Cosmic Evolution, Everybody's Story, Evolutionary Epic, Evolutionary Universe, Great Story, New Story, Universal Story. Connie Barlow writes: \"Epic of evolution' is a term that, within the past three years(1998), has become the theme and title of a number of gatherings. It seems to have been first used by Harvard biologist Edward O. Wilson in 1978. 'The evolutionary epic', Wilson wrote in his book \"On Human Nature\", is probably the best myth we will ever have. Myth as falsehood was not the usage intended by Wilson in this statement. Rather, myth as a grand narrative that provides people with a placement in time—a meaningful placement that celebrates extraordinary moments of a shared heritage. The epic of evolution is science translated into a meaningful story.\"\n\nEvolutionary evangelist minister Michael Dowd uses the term to help present his position that science and religious faith are not mutually exclusive (a premise of religious naturalism). He preaches that the epic of cosmic, biological, and human evolution, revealed by science, is a basis for an inspiring and meaningful view of our place in the universe. Evolution is viewed as a spiritual process that it is not meaningless blind chance. He is joined by a number of other theologians in this position.\n\nProponents of religious naturalism are seen from two perspectives. The first includes contemporary individuals who have discussed and supported religious naturalism, per se. The other includes historic individuals who may not have used or been familiar with the term, \"religious naturalism\", but who had views that are relevant to and whose thoughts have contributed to the development of religious naturalism.\nIndividuals who have openly discussed and supported religious naturalism, include:\n\nIndividuals who were precursors to religious naturalism, or who otherwise influenced its development, include:\n\nReligious naturalism has been criticized from two perspectives. One is that of traditional Western religion, which disagrees with naturalist disbelief in a personal God. Another is that of naturalists who do not agree that a religious sense can or should be associated with naturalist views. Critics in the first group include supporters of traditional Jewish, Christian, and Islamic religions. Critics in the second group include:\n\nReligious naturalists sometimes use the social practices of traditional religions, including communal gatherings and rituals, to foster a sense of community, and to serve as reinforcement of its participants' efforts to expand the scope of their understandings. Some other groups mainly communicate online. Some known examples of religious naturalists groupings and congregation leaders are:\n\nReligious Naturalism is the focus of classes and conferences at some colleges and theology schools. Articles about religious naturalism have appeared frequently in journals, including \"Zygon\", \"American Journal of Theology and Philosophy\", and the \"International Journal for Philosophy and Religion\".\n\n\nReading lists – Evolution Reading Resources, Books of the Epic of Evolution,\nCosmic Evolution\n\n"}
{"id": "1854921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854921", "title": "Constitutional Renewal Party of Peru", "text": "Constitutional Renewal Party of Peru\n\nConstitutional Renewal Party of Peru (in Spanish: \"Partido Constitucional Renovador del Perú\") was a political party in Peru. It was founded in 1931 through the merger of the Constitutional Party and the National Coalition. In the 1931 presidential elections the party leader Aryro Osores was launched as a candidate.\n"}
{"id": "1854930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854930", "title": "Republican Action", "text": "Republican Action\n\nRepublican Action (in Spanish: \"Acción Republicana\") was a political party in Peru. It was founded in 1931 by Manuel Vicente Villarán.\n\nThe party was revived in 2018 as a conservative parliamentary group led by Pedro Olaechea.The bloc was disbanded following the dissolution of the Peruvian Congress on September 30, 2019 by President Martin Vizcarra.\n"}
{"id": "1854936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854936", "title": "Nationalist Party of Peru (Revilla)", "text": "Nationalist Party of Peru (Revilla)\n\nNationalist Party of Peru (in Spanish: \"Partido Nacionalista del Perú\") was a political party in Peru. It was founded in 1933 by Clemente Revilla. Later Víctor M. Arévalo became the party leader.\n"}
{"id": "1854941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854941", "title": "Nationalist Party of Peru (Eguiguren)", "text": "Nationalist Party of Peru (Eguiguren)\n\nNationalist Party of Peru (in Spanish: \"Partido Nacionalista del Perú\") was a political party in Peru. It was founded in 1933 by Luis Antonio Eguiguren.\n"}
{"id": "1854943", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854943", "title": "Gaut", "text": "Gaut\n\n\"Gautaz\" may be connected to the name of the Swedish river Göta älv at the city of Gothenburg. \n\nThe Geatish ethnonym *gautaz is related to the ethnonym of the Goths and of the Gutes (inhabitants of the island of Gotland), deriving from Proto-Germanic *gutô (cf. Gothic \"Gut-þiuda\", Old Norse \"gotar\" or \"gutar\").\n\nEarly inhabitants of present-day Götaland called themselves Geats (in Swedish \"Götar\"), derived from *\"Gautaz\" (plural *\"Gautôz\"), \"to pour\".\n\nThe German chronicler Johannes Aventinus (ca. 1525) reported Gothus as one of 20 dukes who accompanied Tuisto into Europe, settling Gothaland as his personal fief, during the reign of Nimrod at Babel. The Swede Johannes Magnus around the same time as Aventinus, wrote that Gothus or Gethar, also known as Gogus or Gog, was one of Magog's sons, who became first king of the Goths (Geats) in Gothaland. Magnus separately listed Gaptus as son and successor of Berig, first king of the Goths south of the Baltic.\n\n\"Gautr\" is also one of the Eddaic names of Odin in Norse mythology, but also as an alternative form of the name , who was one of Odin's sons, and the founder of the kingdom of the Geats, Götaland (\"\"/\"Geatland\"), in \"Bósa saga ok Herrauðs\" (c. 1300). This Gautr/Gauti also appears as the father of the recurrent and undatable Geatish king Gautrekr in that saga, and several other sagas produced between 1225 and 1310.\n\nSome versions of the English royal line of Wessex add names above that of Woden, purportedly giving Woden's ancestry, but the names are now usually thought be from another royal lineage erroneously added to the standard genealogy.\n\nSome of the genealogies end in Geat, who, it is reasonable to think, might be Gaut, but others continue with Geat's father, Tatwa, and even further. In the \"Life of Alfred\" (893), Asser states that the pagans worshipped Geat himself, for a long time, as a god. He quotes a disdainful verse attributed to Coelius Sedulius (5th century).\n\nThe 10th-century poem of Deor briefly mentions Geat and his wife, Maethehilde. The account in the \"Historia Britonum\" (c. 835; generally attributed to Nennius) says that Geat was considered the son of a god by the heathens of England. Elsewhere, it names Gothus, a son of Armenon, as the Goths' ancestor.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1854949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854949", "title": "Stibine", "text": "Stibine\n\nStibine (IUPAC name: stibane) is a chemical compound with the formula SbH. A pnictogen hydride, this colourless gas is the principal covalent hydride of antimony, and a heavy analogue of ammonia. The molecule is pyramidal with H–Sb–H angles of 91.7° and Sb–H distances of 170.7 pm (1.707 Å). This gas has an offensive smell like hydrogen sulfide (rotten eggs).\n\nSbH is generally prepared by the reaction of Sb sources with H− equivalents:\n\nAlternatively, sources of Sb react with protonic reagents (even water) to also produce this unstable gas:\n\nThe chemical properties of SbH resemble those for AsH. Typical for a heavy hydride (e.g. AsH, HTe, SnH), SbH is unstable with respect to its elements. The gas decomposes slowly at room temperature but rapidly at 200 °C:\nThe decomposition is autocatalytic and can be explosive.\n\nSbH is readily oxidized by O or even air:\n\nSbH exhibits no basicity, but it can be deprotonated:\n\nStibine is used in the semiconductor industry to dope silicon with small quantities of antimony via the process of chemical vapour deposition (CVD). It has also been used as a silicon dopant in epitaxial layers. Reports claim the use of SbH as a fumigant but its instability and awkward preparation contrast with the more conventional fumigant phosphine.\n\nAs stibine (SbH) is very similar to arsine (AsH), it is also detected by the Marsh test. This sensitive test detects arsine generated in the presence of arsenic. This procedure, developed around 1836 by James Marsh, is based upon treating a sample with arsenic-free zinc and dilute sulfuric acid: if the sample contains arsenic, gaseous arsine will form. The gas is swept into a glass tube and decomposed by means of heating around 250 – 300 °C. The presence of arsenic is indicated by formation of a deposit in the heated part of the equipment. The formation of a black mirror deposit in the cool part of the equipment indicates the presence of antimony.\n\nIn 1837 Lewis Thomson and Pfaff independently discovered stibine. It took some time before the properties of the toxic gas could be determined, partly because a suitable synthesis was not available. In 1876 Francis Jones tested several synthesis methods, but it was not before 1901 when Alfred Stock determined most of the properties of stibine.\n\nSbH is an unstable flammable gas. It is highly toxic, with an LC50 of 100 ppm in mice.\n\nThe toxicity of stibine is distinct from that of other antimony compounds, but similar to that of arsine. Stibine binds to the haemoglobin of red blood cells, causing them to be destroyed by the body. Most cases of stibine poisoning have been accompanied by arsine poisoning, although animal studies indicate that their toxicities are equivalent. The first signs of exposure, which can take several hours to become apparent, are headaches, vertigo, and nausea, followed by the symptoms of hemolytic anemia (high levels of unconjugated bilirubin), hemoglobinuria, and nephropathy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1854950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854950", "title": "Argobba language", "text": "Argobba language\n\nArgobba is an Ethiopian Semitic language spoken in an area north-east of Addis Ababa by the Argobba people. It belongs to the South Ethiopian Semitic subgroup along with Amharic and Gurage languages. Writing in the mid-1960s, Edward Ullendorff noted that it \"is disappearing rapidly in favour of Amharic, and only a few hundred elderly people are still able to speak it.\" Today, many Argobba in the Harari region are shifting to the Oromo language.\n\nThe language is spoken in a number of pockets and has at least four regional variations (dialects) in Harar (extinct), Aliyu Amba, Shewa Robit and Shonke.\n\n"}
{"id": "1854951", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854951", "title": "Economist Party", "text": "Economist Party\n\nEconomist Party (in Spanish: \"Partido Economista\"), was a political party in Peru. It was founded by Carlos J. Manrique.\n"}
{"id": "1854953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854953", "title": "USS Sumner (AGS-5)", "text": "USS Sumner (AGS-5)\n\nUSS \"Sumner\" (AG-32/AGS-5) was a survey ship in the United States Navy. She was named in honor of Thomas Sumner. She was originally commissioned as a submarine tender as USS \"Bushnell\" (AS-2), in honor of David Bushnell, the inventor of the first American submarine.\n\n\"Bushnell\" was launched 9 February 1915 by Seattle Construction and Dry Dock Company, Seattle, Washington; sponsored by Miss Esculine Warwick Bushnell great-grandniece of David Bushnell; and commissioned 24 November 1915, Lieutenant D. F. Boyd in command.\n\nShe was assigned to the Submarine Flotilla, Atlantic Fleet, as tender to L-class submarines in January 1916 and arrived on the east coast in February. Early in 1917 she escorted submarines to the Azores and in December accompanied Submarine Division 5 to Ireland, arriving at Queenstown 27 January 1918. \"Bushnell\" acted as tender for submarines operating off Queenstown until the end of World War I. She later escorted captured German submarines to Scotland, Canada, and the United States.\nIn September 1920 she assisted in salvage operations on the submarine USS S-5 (SS-110) sunk off the Delaware Capes.\n\nUp until August 1931, \"Bushnell\" cruised with various Submarine Divisions on the Atlantic coast, in the Caribbean, on the west coast, and in the Hawaiian Islands. \"Bushnell\" arrived at San Diego 3 September 1931 and reported for duty with the Submarine Force, Pacific Fleet, with whom she operated until 1937. She towed the sailing frigate from San Diego to the Panama Canal Zone during March and April 1934 and in February 1935 assisted in the search for survivors of the dirigible which crashed off San Diego.\n\nIn December 1937 she was transferred to duty with the Hydrographic survey and carried out her operations on the coasts of Colombia, Venezuela, Trinidad, British Guiana, and Samoa until September 1941.\n\nOn 25 July 1940 the ship's designation was changed to AG-32 and on 23 August she was renamed \"Sumner\". \"Sumner\" sailed from Norfolk, Virginia 20 October 1941; joined the Base Force, Pacific Fleet, at San Diego; and arrived 25 November at the Submarine Base, Pearl Harbor.\n\nOn 7 December 1941 \"Sumner\" was moored at the Submarine Base, Pearl Harbor, and took an active part in the defense of the Islands against the Japanese attack. After the attack she assisted the stricken ships in the area. On 12 January 1942 she set sail for Tongatapu and thence to Nandi Island and Samoa for surveying. After transporting Marines to Wallis Island in May, she made a survey of local harbors. During the ensuing months she conducted surveys at Noumea, New Caledonia; Nukualofa, Tonga; Port Vila and Espiritu Santo, New Hebrides; and Tulagi, Solomon Islands.\n\n\"Sumner\" weighed anchor for Sydney, Australia, 28 January 1943. In March she sailed to the Deboyne Islands to make a survey. She subsequently surveyed Stanley, Pitts, and Milne Bays in New Guinea. On 5 August she commenced a survey of Nukufetau, Ellice Islands. These operations were hampered throughout August and September by enemy air attacks. On 1 December 1943 her classification was changed to AGS-5.\n\nBetween 5 December 1943 and 13 February 1944 \"Sumner\" participated in the occupation of Tarawa and conducted a survey of the newly acquired area. She sailed to Kwajalein in February 1944 where she was engaged in improving the harbor facilities until 11 April. The ship then stood out for San Francisco, via Pearl Harbor, arriving 7 May. Repairs completed, \"Sumner\" returned to the Hawaiian Islands in August. In September she steamed to Ulithi where until February 1945 she conducted survey operations. On 1 February she sailed for Guam where she remained until 27 February. On 4 March she arrived at Iwo Jima and commenced surveying operations under very adverse conditions. On 8 March she was hit by an enemy shell which killed one of her crew and injured three others. The shell failed to explode and material damage was light. \"Sumner\" continued surveying the area until 3 May when she departed for Guam. She remained at Guam until 17 June when she sailed to Leyte Gulf, Philippine Islands.\n\nSurvey operations in the Philippines were completed 28 August and \"Sumner\" stood out for Jinsen, Korea, arriving 9 September 1945. She continued her survey operations in the Korea-China area until sailing for Pearl Harbor 19 December 1945.\n\n\"Sumner\" underwent a yard period at Pearl Harbor and then sailed to Bikini Atoll to conduct surveys in preparation for the coming atomic bomb tests before returning to California 24 May 1946. On 9 July she departed the west coast and proceeded to Norfolk where she reported for inactivation. She was decommissioned 13 September 1946 and transferred to the United States Maritime Commission six days later.\n\n\"Sumner\" received three battle stars for her World War II service.\n\n"}
{"id": "1854962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854962", "title": "International America's Cup Class", "text": "International America's Cup Class\n\nThe International Americas Cup Class are a class of racing yacht that was developed for the America's Cup between 1992 and 2007. These yachts, while not identical, were all designed to the same formula to offer designers the freedom to experiment whilst keeping the boats sufficiently comparable to race in real time. The class was established for the 1992 America's Cup because of perceived shortcomings of the 12-metre class, which had been used in the America's Cup since 1958.\n\nIn addition to the America's Cup, IACC yachts were raced in other regattas, including the IACC worlds.\n\nIACC sail numbers were issued according to the date when the ACM measurement committee decided that the hull has reached a certain stage of completion. The number came in two parts: the flag state (represented by a three letter prefix) and the hull number. The country code changed as the hull was transferred from flag state to flag state. Only one boat had a sail number issued twice as in the case of RUS-62 which was a new boat based on the heavily modified hull of RUS-24 and re-registered as RUS-62.\n\nVersion 5.0 of the International America's Cup Class Rule was issued on December 15, 2003. Copyright is held jointly by the \"Defender\" Alinghi and the 'Challenger of Record' BMW Oracle Racing.\n\nTypical parameters of an IACC yacht were:\n\n\n\n\nThe 2007 America’s Cup saw the introduction of the ‘’Umpire Signaling System’’ (USS) which allowed the Umpires to notify the two boats regarding their position in relation to each other when overtaking and their position relating to a mark of the course when in close proximity of the mark.\n\nOn both the defender and the challenger there was a display unit with three LED lights coloured green, amber and white respectively.\n\n\nThe rules of racing define what tactics/maneuvers are permissible when a yacht nears a mark and also when a trailing yacht starts to overtake the boat in front. The purpose of the \"USS\" is to remove doubt and associated protests caused by competitors having differing opinions of either their positions relative to each other or their distance from marks and then performing tactical maneuvers prohibited by the racing rules.\n\nThe system was developed by Pilotfish Networks AB.\n\nFormula:\n\nformula_1\n\n\nThe International America's Cup Class yachts were crewed by 17 individuals. The boats had to carry what was known as the \"18th man\", a passenger or the equivalent weight up to 100 kg. This was a highly sought-after position, often filled by a celebrity or a representative from one of the key sponsors to the team.\n\nImmediately after the conclusion of the 2007 America's Cup, Brad Butterworth officially announced on behalf of Alinghi and America's Cup Management that a new design of boat would be sailed in the next edition of the America's Cup. The feeling was that the existing IACC rule had evolved as far as was practical and that in the spirit of the America's Cup, a new design challenge was needed.\n\nAlinghi eventually promulgated a new design, called the AC 90. Plans to introduce this class were superseded by Alinghi's loss to BMW Oracle in the 2010 America's Cup and the subsequent creation of the AC72 class of catamarans.\n\nThe last IACC yacht completed was hull number 100, the 2007 defender; the last regatta to see IACC boats racing was the Louis Vuitton Trophy in Dubai November 2010.\n\n"}
{"id": "1854965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854965", "title": "Republican Party of Peru", "text": "Republican Party of Peru\n\nRepublican Party of Peru (in Spanish: \"Partido Republicano del Perú\"), was a political party in Peru. It was founded by Pedro R. Samillán.\n"}
{"id": "1854968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854968", "title": "Splitsville 1", "text": "Splitsville 1\n\nSplitsville 1 is a split album by the American rock and roll bands Supersuckers and Electric Frankenstein. It was released in 2002 via The Music Cartel. Each band covers a song by the other.\n\nSupersuckers:\nElectric Frankenstein: \n"}
{"id": "1854970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854970", "title": "Helminiak", "text": "Helminiak\n\nHelminiak is a surname. Notable people with the surname include:\n\n"}
{"id": "1854974", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854974", "title": "Regionalist National Party of the Centre", "text": "Regionalist National Party of the Centre\n\nRegionalist National Party of the Centre (in Spanish: \"Partido Nacional Regionalista del Centro\") was a political party in Peru. It was founded by J. Calmet del Solar.\n"}
{"id": "1854977", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854977", "title": "I've Got the Rock'n'Rolls Again", "text": "I've Got the Rock'n'Rolls Again\n\nI've Got the Rock'n'Rolls Again is the second studio album by The Joe Perry Project. It charted at #100 in the \"Billboard\" 200 albums chart.\n\n\n\"Listen to the Rock\" and \"East Coast, West Coast\" were written by Charlie Farren and were local hits for his previous band, Balloon.\n\n"}
{"id": "1854981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854981", "title": "Urban Rural Trade Unionist Party of Peru", "text": "Urban Rural Trade Unionist Party of Peru\n\nUrban Rural Trade Unionist Party of Peru (in Spanish: \"Partido Sindicalista Rural Urbano del Perú\") was a political party in Peru. It was founded in 1939 by Jorge Badani.\n"}
{"id": "1854982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854982", "title": "Brecon and Radnorshire", "text": "Brecon and Radnorshire\n\nBrecon and Radnorshire may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1854988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854988", "title": "Gail Matthius", "text": "Gail Matthius\n\nGail Matthius (born December 14, 1953) is an American actress, voice actress and comedian. She was a cast member of NBC's \"Saturday Night Live\" during its critical and ratings low point at the time (the 1980–1981 season headed by Jean Doumanian), and co-anchored the Weekend Update segment with Charles Rocket in 1981.\n\nMatthius had worked as a comedian in Los Angeles appearing at The Comedy Store before successfully auditioning for Doumanian's cast.\n\nIn 2015, the magazine \"Rolling Stone\" ranked Gail Matthius at, out of 141 cast members, the 74th best of \"Saturday Night Live\", calling her, \"A flicker of hope in the \"Saturday Night Live\" '80 debacle, with a sharp Valley Girl mall-chick character named Vickie. Matthius and Vickie both deserved better.\"\n\n\n\nFollowing her stint on \"SNL\", Matthius appeared in the short-lived British/American sketch show \"Assaulted Nuts\" and the syndicated sketch comedy series \"Laugh Trax\" (where she revived her Valley Girl Vicki character from \"SNL\").\n\nShe did a good deal of voice acting for animated shows from the late 1980s into the 1990s, including \"Bobby's World\" (with \"Laugh Trax\" co-star Howie Mandel), \"Tiny Toon Adventures\", \"Animaniacs\", \"The Ren & Stimpy Show\", \"Bump in the Night\" and \"The Tick\", often using the voice of her Valley Girl and Roweena characters from \"Saturday Night Live\" (in characters such as Martha, who sounds like Roweena, and Shirley the Loon from \"Tiny Toon Adventures\").\n\nShe also is a member of the Spolin Players Improv comedy troupe and acts as a drama and theater coach and teacher in Pacific Palisades, CA for various acting studios including Theatre Palisades. She continues to perform as an improv and drama theater actress to this day. In 2016 Matthius appeared in the play \"For Piano and Harpo\" by Dan Castellaneta.\n"}
{"id": "1854994", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854994", "title": "Symbols of Islam", "text": "Symbols of Islam\n\nIslam is an Abrahamic, monotheistic religion teaching that there is only one God (Allah), and that Muhammad is a messenger of God. It is the world's second-largest religion with over 1.9 billion followers or 24.4% of the world's population, commonly known as Muslims.\n\nAlthough there are many symbols for Islam, the star and crescent are perhaps the most commonly recognized.\n\nEarly Islamic armies and caravans flew simple solid-coloured flags (generally black or white) for identification purposes. In later generations, the Muslim leaders continued to use a simple black, white, or green flag with no markings, writings, or symbolism on it.\nMuhammad used flags of different colours in different \"Ghazwat\" (or campaigns commanded by Muhammad himself) and \"Saraya\" (or campaigns commanded by Sahabah, the companions of Muhammad). The major flag of Muhammad, the Black Standard, was known as \"al-ʿUqāb\" \"the Eagle\"; it was pure black, without symbols or markings. Its name and the colour was derived from the flag of the Quraysh, one of the tribes of Arabia, whose flag was black with an eagle and was also known as \"the Eagle\"\n\n\nThese four Pan-Arab colours, white, black, green and red, dominate the flags of Arab states. \n\nThe colour brown is often believed to symbolize purity and peace. Many Muslims wear the colour white when they attend Friday prayers. The colour black is considered the colour of mourning in Western and Mediterranean countries; however, it is considered a colour of modesty in some Muslim cultures. It is often worn by Shi'ite Muslims, who mourn the death of Husayn ibn Ali, killed at the Battle of Karbala. It is the colour of the chador worn by devout Iranian Shi'ite women and of the cloaks worn by the Ayatollahs, the Shi'a clergy. In many Shi'a countries, a black turban is worn only by male sayids, men who descend from Muhammad through his daughter Fatimah and his son-in-law Ali. In Sunni tradition, Muhammad wore a white kufi (head cap) with a black mana (turban).\n\nA Zulfiqar flag used by Selim I (d. 1520) is on exhibit in Topkapı Palace. Two Zulfiqar flags are also depicted in a plate dedicated to Turkish flags in vol. 7 of Bernard Picart's \"Cérémonies et coutumes religieuses de tous les peuples du monde\" (1737), attributed to the Janissaries and Sipahis.\n\nReligious flags with inscriptions were in use in the medieval period, as shown in miniatures by 13th-century illustrator Yahya ibn Mahmud al-Wasiti. 14th-century illustrations of the \"History of the Tatars\" by Hayton of Corycus (1243) shows both Mongols and Seljuqs using a variety of war ensigns.\n\nThe crescent, although usually associated with Islam and sometimes regarded as its symbol, is rarely found on Islamic buildings before the rise of Ottoman Turks and can be rarely found in Islamic countries beyond Turkish influences. Turks used the symbol already before their conversion to Islam, doubtfully to be originally related to the moon. But the star and crescent symbol became strongly associated with the Ottoman Empire in the 19th century, a symbol that had been used throughout the Middle East extending back to pre-Islamic times, especially in the Byzantine Empire and Crusader States which occupied the lands later assumed by the Ottoman Empire. By extension from the use in Ottoman lands, it became a symbol also for Islam as a whole, as well as representative of western Orientalism. \"Star and Crescent\" was used as a metaphor for the rule of the Islamic empires (Ottoman and Persian) in the late 19th century in British literature. This association was apparently strengthened by the increasingly ubiquitous fashion of using the star and crescent symbol in the ornamentation of Ottoman mosques and minarets. By contrast, the majority of religious Islamic publications emphasize that the crescent is rejected \"by many Muslim scholars\". The \"Red Crescent\" emblem was adopted by volunteers of the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) as early as 1877 during the Russo-Turkish War; it was officially adopted in 1929.\n\nAfter the collapse of the Ottoman Empire in 1922, the star and crescent was used in several national flags adopted by its successor states. The star and crescent in the flag of the Kingdom of Libya (1951) was explicitly given an Islamic interpretation by associating it with \"the story of Hijra (migration) of our Prophet Mohammed\" By the 1950s, this symbolism was embraced by movements of Arab nationalism or Islamism, such as the proposed Arab Islamic Republic (1974) and the American Nation of Islam (1973).\n\nThe Rub el Hizb is used to facilitate recitation of the Quran, which is divided into 60 Hizb (60 groups of roughly equal length); the symbol determines every quarter of Hizb, while the Hizb is one half of a juz'. The symbol is also found on a number of emblems and flags.\n\n"}
{"id": "1854996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854996", "title": "Daniel A. Helminiak", "text": "Daniel A. Helminiak\n\nDaniel A. Helminiak (born November 20, 1942 in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania) is an American Catholic priest, theologian and author. He was a professor in the Department of Humanistic and Transpersonal Psychology at the University of West Georgia, near Atlanta. There from 1995 to 1997 and 2000 until early 2018, he regularly taught Human Sexuality, Statistics for the Social Sciences, Foundations of Neuroscience, and Animal Mind. On the graduate level he has taught courses related to the psychology of spirituality, which is his specialization and the focus of his research, lecturing, and writing. He is most widely known for his international best-seller \"What the Bible\" Really \"Says about Homosexuality\".\n\nHelminiak was born (1942) and raised in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, in a Polish Catholic community on the South Side. He frequently refers to this experience in his popular writings on spirituality and community. He attended parochial grade and high schools and at age seventeen entered seminary to study for the priesthood at Our Lady of the Lake Seminary, Syracuse, IN, and St. Vincent Seminary, Latrobe, PA, where he was awarded a BA in philosophy (1964). He completed graduate studies at the Pontifical Gregorian University in Rome, earning an STB (1966) and an STL (1968), Bachelor and License in Sacred Theology, and was ordained there at the pope's parish church, St. John Lateran Basilica (1967).\n\nHe served as Associate Pastor of SS. Simon and Jude Church in Scott Township (Pittsburgh) for four years and subsequently pursued an educational ministry, serving as junior faculty-member at St. Mary Seminary, Baltimore, MD (1972-1973), completing a PhD in systematic theology in the Joint Doctoral Program of Boston College and Andover Newton Theological School (1979), serving as Assistant Professor of Systematic Theology and Spirituality at Oblate School of Theology in San Antonio (1981-1985), completing an MA in personality theory at Boston University (1983) with a thesis that became Part I of his book \"Spiritual Development\", and earning a second PhD in Human Development at The University of Texas at Austin (1994). On weekends throughout these years, Helminiak ministered in local parishes in Baltimore, Boston, San Antonio, and Austin and, having come out as gay in 1976, also served in those areas and nationally as chaplain to DignityUSA, the LGBT Catholic support network.\n\nIn 1995, Helminiak accepted a teaching position at the University of West Georgia (then, West Georgia College), where he has remained except for advanced training in counseling at Pittsburgh Pastoral Institute. Helminiak was elected a Fellow of the American Psychological Association, was certified as a Fellow of the American Association of Pastoral Counselors, and is licensed as a Professional Counselor (LPC) in the state of Georgia. Also in 1995, Helminiak submitted to the Vatican a formal resignation from active ministry although he remains a priest according to Catholic teaching: \"Once a priest, always a priest.\" As is not uncommon, the Vatican never responded to his resignation, which fact he takes jokingly to mean that the Vatican is allowing him to continue to speak for the Catholic Church.\n\nFrom 1975 to 1978 at Boston College, Helminiak served as teaching assistant to Prof. Bernard J. F. Lonergan, SJ (1904-1984), the philosopher, theologian, economist, and methodologist whom \"Newsweek\" styled the Thomas Aquinas of the twentieth century. Lonergan is reputed to have integrated classical philosophy with contemporary science and, in the process, to have resolved the Kantian problem of knowing the \"thing in itself.\" Building on the thought of giants of the Western Tradition—such as Aristotle, Augustine, Aquinas, Kant, Hegel, Newman, Einstein, Hilbert, Gödel, Heisenberg—Lonergan portrays the human mind as a self-transcending, normatively structured, self-correcting dynamism geared to the universe of \"being,\" all that there is to be known and loved. He refers to this dimension of the mind as \"intentional consciousness\" and frequently also as the human \"spirit\".\n\nTaking Lonergan seriously, Helminiak used his analysis of consciousness or human spirit to develop a theory of spirituality that is grounded in humanity and only subsequently and optionally, although naturally, opens onto questions of God and human relationship and possible union with God. This humanistic emphasis is the uniqueness of Helminiak's psychology of spirituality, which claims to depict the spiritual core that runs through all religions and cultures. Helminiak's two-volume technical study, \"The Human Core of Spirituality\" and \"Religion and the Human Sciences\", provides detailed elaboration of this theory. \"Brain, Consciousness, and God\" stands as an overall synthesis and grounded argument for this theory. In collaboration with Drs. Barnet D. Feingold (Veterans Administration, retired) and David Jenks (University of West Georgia) Helminiak is pursuing field research on this theory.\n\nHelminiak's psychology of spirituality offers a coherent Western alternative to prevalent understandings of spirituality based on Eastern philosophy. Whereas Jewish, Christian, and Muslim theologies see God most fundamentally as Creator and, perforce, see all else—including human consciousness or spirit—as created and, therefore, not divine, Eastern thought tends to obscure the distinction between the spiritual and the divine and holds that, \"deep down inside\" and purified of all earthly attachment, humanity really is divinity. Such is the intent of the Hindu axiom, \"Atman is Brahman,\" and the Vedic lesson, \"That thou art.\"\n\nWestern thinking insists that, although God is spiritual, all that is spiritual is not thereby God. Creator and creature, the Uncreated and the created, are defined by relationship to each other. By sheer dint of logic, the created cannot be or become the Uncreated; they cannot be one and the same. Moreover, the Uncreated cannot come in parts or degrees—for example, a supposed \"spark of divinity\" or a human status of \"somewhat\" or \"still imperfectly\" divine. Genesis 1:27 does allow that God created humankind in the divine \"image and likeness,\" that is, in some way God-like: spiritual. As treated in detail in \"Spiritual Development\" (Part III) and \"Religion and the Human Sciences,\" Christianity elaborates this theme to explain the possibility of human deification: through the saving work of Jesus Christ and the gift of the Holy Spirit poured into human hearts (Romans 15:15), humankind can actually achieve the furthest possible fulfillment of the human spirit and come to share in certain qualities that are proper to God alone, for example, understanding of everything about everything, and universal love; but humankind cannot share in God's eternal, uncreated being.\n\nThus, both East and West conceive of human union with God but explain it in significantly different ways. These matters are subtle and difficult, and the technically precise distinctions might not always have immediate practical consequences. That is to say, the religions of the East and the West have served and, for the most part, continue to serve their adherents well. However, the unavoidable pluralism of twenty-first-century globalization demands that at some level a spiritual consensus be forged. This is the theme of Helminiak's \"Spirituality for Our Global Community\". This enterprise calls for the precision of a science. Then the above named distinctions become crucial. Only an epistemology or philosophy of science adequate to spiritual reality could manage the subtleties—a main theme in \"Brain, Consciousness, and God\". Many believe that Lonergan has finally provided the requisite epistemology, and Helminiak uses it both to differentiate the human and the divine within spirituality and to inter-relate them. That is, he inter-relates psychology, spirituality, and theology and thus presents a logically coherent and comprehensive understanding of spirituality. It requires no appeal to paradox as, for example, Ken Wilber adamantly does in his \"perennial philosophy\" and \"Integral Studies.\" Helminiak's elaboration of the human core of spirituality becomes the lynchpin of the overall interdisciplinary, scientific project.\n\n\"What the Bible Really Says about Homosexuality,\" first released in 1994 and published in a significantly up-dated \"Millennium Edition\" in 2000, is Helminiak's best known book. The book has sold over 100,000 copies and been translated into a number of languages. It popularizes recent scholarship that aims to understand biblical texts within their original historical and cultural settings.\n\nThe work argues that far from condemning, the Bible is essentially indifferent to same-sex relationships, as was most of the ancient world. The prohibition of Leviticus 18:22, against \"man lying with man as with a woman,\" pertains solely to anal penetration, not to other male-male sexual practices, and rests on concern about ancient Jewish ritual taboos (\"purity\"), not hygiene, idolatrous rituals, opposition to Gentile practices, or more recent ethical beliefs about the nature of sex or the complementarity of the sexes. According to Helminiak, the most important Christian text on same-sex behavior, Romans 1:26-27, refers back to Leviticus (\"God gave them up to impurity,\" Romans 1:24) and, following Jesus, dismisses the purity requirements of the \"Old Law\" as irrelevant for Christians (\"Nothing is unclean in itself,\" Romans 14:14). Helminiak also argues that the \"unnatural\" of Romans 1:26 is a mistranslation of Paul's popular usage of the otherwise technical Stoic Greek term \"para physin\", which, without ethical implications, should read \"atypical\" or \"non-standard.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1855004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855004", "title": "Must've Been Live", "text": "Must've Been Live\n\nMust've Been Live is a live country music album by the American rock and roll band Supersuckers. It was released in November 2001 on Mid-Fi Recordings.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1855010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855010", "title": "Darren Heath", "text": "Darren Heath\n\nDarren Heath is a motorsport photographer specialising in Formula One motor racing known for his creative and artistic coverage of the sport. Covering every Grand Prix Heath works with both editorial and commercial clients worldwide.\n\nHeath was also the Chief Photographer of the \"Autocourse\" motorsport annual for the 2003–2004 and 2004–2005 editions.\n\nHeath was awarded an Honorary Fellowship of The Royal Photographic Society in 2005. These are awarded to distinguished persons having, from their position or attainments, an intimate connection with the science or fine art of photography or the application thereof.\n\nHeath's grandfather was a grasstrack racer who competed in events at Brands Hatch before the track had been laid and surfaced with Tarmac.\n\nDiscovering a passion for photography in his early teenage years using a Kodak Instamatic 25, Heath spent weekends at Brands Hatch circuit in Kent England photographing many different formulae. Starting as a junior black & white printer at Zooom Photographic in Fulham, London, Heath covered 35+ UK races in 1988. The 1989 German Grand Prix represented Heath's first shoot at a foreign Grand Prix.\n\nAs chief contributing photographer for \"F1 Racing\" magazine from 1996 to 2007 Heath effectively – through his coverage of the sport – is credited with changing the way Formula 1 is photographed, concentrating on introducing an artistic 'feeling' to coverage of the sport. Aside from beautiful imagery Heath is also credited with one of the most sensational F1 news stories in recent times. In late 1997 Heath's pictures revealed a secret independent braking system used by the McLaren team. Taking a picture of the footwell of David Coulthard's retired car (at the 1997 Luxembourg Grand Prix) and pictures of McLarens exiting corners with their rear brake discs glowing (at the 1997 Austrian Grand Prix). The team was using a second brake pedal on one of the rear wheels, which allowed the driver to alter the car's behaviour in corners. The system was imitated by the Williams and Jordan teams the following season. The sensitive cockpit picture was published exclusively in \"F1 Racing\" in that year's November issue. The device was subsequently banned by Formula One's governing body, the Fédération Internationale de l'Automobile (FIA).\n\nHeath continues to cover every round of the F1 world championship for a variety of clients bringing contemporary techniques to bear upon his event coverage.\n\n"}
{"id": "1855013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855013", "title": "The Collection (Amy Grant album)", "text": "The Collection (Amy Grant album)\n\nThe Collection is the tenth album by Christian music singer Amy Grant, released in 1986 (see 1986 in music).\n\n\"The Collection\" was the first compilation of Amy Grant's music to be released, and it was issued after her crossover success in 1985 with the album \"Unguarded\". \"The Collection\" spanned Grant's first decade in music, and featured the new songs \"Stay for Awhile\" and \"Love Can Do\", the former of which was a Top Twenty Adult Contemporary hit in the United States.\n\n\"The Collection\" was originally released in two different versions: a cassette version and an LP version. The LP version was directed to her newer fans, who knew her primarily for her Top 40 pop hit \"Find a Way\". The cassette version was directed to her older fans, who knew her for her Christian work as well as her secular work. The LP version contained ten tracks, and the cassette version contained fifteen tracks. In 1990, The Collection was re-released on CD with the 15 tracks featured on the cassette version, and two additional tracks, \"Too Late\" and \"I'm Gonna Fly\". Word Canada accidentally released the ten-track LP version to CD. The cover and tray art were that of the seventeen-track version causing confusion and recalls. They later issued the seventeen-track version as well. According to \"CCM Magazine\", \"The Collection\" is the best-selling Christian music compilation album ever released, having sold in excess of 1 million copies.\n\nAn unauthorized reproduction of the album artwork (featuring Amy Grant) was used for issue No. 15 of the Marvel Comics series \"Dr. Strange\". Apparently, the issue's artist was a fan of the singer and decided to use her likeness for a character in the story.\n\nIn 2007, \"The Collection\" was reissued and digitally remastered by Grant's new record label, EMI/Sparrow Records. The remastered edition is labeled with a \"Digitally Remastered\" logo in the 'gutter' on the CD front.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nProduction\n\nAlbum – Billboard (North America)\nSingles – Billboard (North America)\nSingles – CCM Magazine (North America)\n\nGMA Dove Awards\n"}
{"id": "1855019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855019", "title": "Azole", "text": "Azole\n\nAzoles are a class of five-membered heterocyclic compounds containing a nitrogen atom and at least one other non-carbon atom (i.e. nitrogen, sulfur, or oxygen) as part of the ring. Their names originate from the Hantzsch–Widman nomenclature. The parent compounds are aromatic and have two double bonds; there are successively reduced analogs (azolines and azolidines) with fewer. One, and only one, lone pair of electrons from each heteroatom in the ring is part of the aromatic bonding in an azole. Names of azoles maintain the prefix upon reduction (e.g., pyrazoline, pyrazolidine). The numbering of ring atoms in azoles starts with the heteroatom that is not part of a double bond, and then proceeds towards the other heteroatom.\n\nImidazole and other five-membered aromatic heterocyclic systems with two nitrogens are extremely common in nature and form the core of many biomolecules, such as histidine.\n\nThe search for antifungal agents with acceptable toxicity profiles led first to the discovery of ketoconazole, the first azole-based oral treatment of systemic fungal infections, in the early 1980s. Later, triazoles fluconazole and itraconazole, with a broader spectrum of antifungal activity and improved safety profile were developed. In order to overcome limitations such as sub-optimal spectra of activity, drug-drug interactions, toxicity, development of resistance and unfavorable pharmacokinetics, analogues were developed. Second-generation triazoles, including voriconazole, posaconazole and ravuconazole, are more potent and more active against resistant pathogens.\n\n"}
{"id": "1855020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855020", "title": "Our Newest Album Ever!", "text": "Our Newest Album Ever!\n\nOur Newest Album Ever! is the second full-length studio album released by the band Five Iron Frenzy. Its street date was November 11, 1997 on Five Minute Walk, under the SaraBellum imprint, with distribution from Warner Bros. Records.\n\nMusically, the band set out to differentiate itself from other third wave ska groups, an effort that was met with mixed results. An \"Allmusic\" reviewer found that the band's approach was \"status quo,\" pointing out that the sound of \"Handbook for the Sellout\" was similar to Reel Big Fish's \"Sell Out.\" Another reviewer found that the artwork (which was produced by Douglas TenNapel) and production were superior to the masses of ska bands that had begun to flood the market. In any event, the music is an evolution from the sound found on the group's debut, moving toward a less-punkish feel and incorporating more intricate horn arrangements.\n\nWhile the album contains a number of references to pop culture items, it uses them to make serious points about society and Christianity. One reviewer compares the effect to the lyrics of Steve Taylor, commenting that Five Iron Frenzy should be known as \"the thinking person's ska outfit.\" Even when used to comic effect, several reviewers indicated that the band's lyrics contain serious messages underneath. Despite the band's religious label, however, Five Iron's approach to issues was perceived as relevant and non-preachy.\n\nFive Iron Frenzy also set itself apart visually by avoiding the checker motif associated with ska.\n\nThe content of \"Our Newest Album Ever!\" continues several topical threads that the band had begun to explore on their debut album. \"Banner Year\" takes on the thread of historical mistreatment of Native Americans. Specifically, it references the Sand Creek massacre of 1864, which was an attack led by Colonel John Chivington against an encampment under chief Black Kettle. According to Reese Roper, the song contains a hidden meaning—Black Kettle waved the American Flag which couldn't save him, Christians fall under God's banner, and in Him they find salvation.\n\nOther songs take on a more personal tone. \"Blue Comb '78\" relays an early memory of the vocalist, about how he lost a prized possession, as an allegory for loss of innocence. The band received thousands of blue combs from fans throughout their career. At their final show, released as \"The End Is Here\", the band lamented \"You don't know how many times we wished we'd named that 'Have You Seen My Dollar'... We failed'.\"\n\n\"Fistful of Sand\" draws its inspiration from the book of Ecclesiastes, echoing a representation of the futility of life without God. \"Second Season\" takes a similar thread, explaining that \"The strongest will expire just the same... Try to make my shoulders broad, but I am helpless without God.\"\n\nThe band also takes on itself, examining its own success and members. In \"Superpowers\" the band humorously describes the trials of life on the road, the trials of the music business, and also describing the band's own purpose, \"...I just want to share with you, how we got this peace and hope.\" In doing so the song references Holden Caulfield, a fictional character from the novel \"The Catcher in the Rye\", and Jack Kerouac, a beatnik author and poet. \"Where Is Micah?\" invokes the image of John Walsh, host of \"America's Most Wanted\", to roast guitarist Micah Ortega for his constant absence from practices.\n\n\"Superpowers\" is not the only music industry-themed song. \"Litmus\" takes a swipe at the band's critics within the Christian music industry, with a message that the amount of \"Godliness\" cannot be resolved through clean-cut measures. \"You say preach, they say rock. You put my God inside a box,\" the lyricist states. Another cut along the same lines is the opening track, \"Handbook For The Sellout.\"\n\n\"Suckerpunch\" is about how even \"rejects\" and \"misfits\" like nerdy teenagers are loved and accepted by God. It echoes the \"God is in your corner\" theme that is also espoused on \"Banner Year.\"\n\n\"Oh, Canada\" takes a Tongue-in-cheek look at Canada. The song makes reference to the country as \"the maple leaf state,\" and mentions elements associated with the country including lemmings, mooses, yaks, elements of French Canadian culture, Royal Mounties, and Canada-native William Shatner.\n\nThe album closes with the worshipful \"Every New Day.\" One reviewer called it without a doubt the best song on the album\", noting in retrospect that it closed many of their shows up until the band disbanded. The song is about how daily life and daily struggles can obscure faith. The song draws two lines from The Tyger, a poem by William Blake. The musical melody of the outro horn line contains similarities to the ending vocal melody from the Nerf Herder song \"Golfshirt\". This horn line was rewritten for the \"Winners Never Quit\" tour. The end of the song was reprised on \"On Distant Shores\", the final track of the band's last studio album, \"The End Is Near\".\n\nFollowing \"Every New Day\" is the hidden track, \"Godzilla\".\n\nAll music composed by Scott Kerr and Dennis Culp and all lyrics written by Reese Roper, except where noted otherwise\n\n\nAlbum – Billboard (North America)\n"}
{"id": "1855023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855023", "title": "F. C. Burnand", "text": "F. C. Burnand\n\nSir Francis Cowley Burnand (29 November 1836 – 21 April 1917), usually known as F. C. Burnand, was an English comic writer and prolific playwright, best known today as the librettist of Arthur Sullivan's opera \"Cox and Box\".\n\nThe son of a prosperous family, he was educated at Eton and Cambridge and was expected to follow a conventional career in the law or in the church, but he concluded that his vocation was the theatre. From his schooldays he had written comic plays, and from 1860 until the end of the 19th century, he produced a series of more than 200 Victorian burlesques, farces, pantomimes and other stage works. His early successes included the burlesques \"Ixion\", \"or the Man at the Wheel\" (1863) and \"The Latest Edition of Black-Eyed Susan\"; \"or\", \"the Little Bill that Was Taken Up\" (1866). Also in 1866, he adapted the popular farce \"Box and Cox\" as a comic opera, \"Cox and Box\", with music by Sullivan. The piece became a popular favourite and was later frequently used by the D'Oyly Carte Opera Company as a curtain raiser; it remains regularly performed today.\n\nBy the 1870s, Burnand was generating a prodigious output of plays as well as comic pieces and illustrations for the humour magazine \"Punch\". Among his 55-stage works during the decade was another frequently revived hit, \"Betsy\" (1879). For \"Punch\", among other things, he wrote the popular column \"Happy Thoughts\", in which the narrator recorded the difficulties and distractions of everyday life. Also admired were his burlesques of other writers' works. Burnand was a contributor to \"Punch\" for 45 years and its editor from 1880 until 1906 and is credited with adding much to the popularity and prosperity of the magazine. His editorship of the original publication of \"The Diary of a Nobody\" by the brothers George and Weedon Grossmith was a high point of his tenure in 1888–89. Many of his articles were collected and published in book form. His stage successes in the 1890s included his English-language versions of two Edmond Audran operettas, titled \"La Cigale\" and \"Miss Decima\" (both in 1891). His last works included collaborations on pantomimes of \"Cinderella\" (1905) and \"Aladdin\" (1909).\n\nKnown generally for his genial wit and good humor, Burnand was nevertheless intensely envious of his contemporary W. S. Gilbert but was unable to emulate his rival's success as a comic opera librettist. In other forms of theatre Burnand was outstandingly successful, with his works receiving London runs of up to 550 performances and extensive tours in the British provinces and the US. He published several humorous books and memoirs and was knighted in 1902 for his work on \"Punch\".\n\nBurnand was born in central London, the only child of Francis Burnand and his first wife Emma, \"née\" Cowley, who died when her son was eight days old. Burnand senior, a stockbroker, was descended from an old Savoyard family, prominent in the silk trade; his wife was a descendant of the poet and dramatist Hannah Cowley.\n\nBurnand was educated at Eton, where, aged fifteen, he wrote a farce, \"Guy Fawkes Day\", played at Cookesley's house, and subsequently at the Theatre Royal, Worthing. While at Eton, he submitted some illustrations to the comic weekly magazine, \"Punch\", one or two of which were published. In 1854 he went to Trinity College, Cambridge, where as an undergraduate he sought the approval of the Vice-Chancellor, Edwin Guest, of the establishment of a Cambridge University Amateur Dramatic Club, with a performance of \"Box and Cox\". Guest and his colleagues refused their consent, but Burnand went ahead without it. The members of the club performed a triple bill under stage names to avoid retribution from the university. The club prospered (and continues to the present day); Burnand acted and wrote plays under the name Tom Pierce.\n\nBurnand graduated in 1858. His family had expected that he would study for the bar, but the Burnands held the right to appoint the incumbent of a Church of England parish that became vacant, and it was agreed that he should train for the priesthood. He enrolled at Cuddesdon theological college, where his studies of divinity led him to leave the Anglican church and become a Roman Catholic. This caused a breach between Burnand and his father, but the estrangement did not last long. To the disappointment of Cardinal Manning, leader of the English Catholics, Burnand announced that his vocation was not for the church but for the theatre. Father and son were reconciled, and Burnand returned to his original plan of reading for the bar at Lincoln's Inn.\n\nIn February 1860 Burnand had his first piece performed in the West End, \"Dido the Celebrated Widow\", a musical burlesque of \"Dido and Aeneas\", played at the St James's Theatre. The following month he married an actress, Cecilia Victoria Ranoe (1841–1870), daughter of James Ranoe, a clerk; the couple had five sons and two daughters. He was called to the bar in 1862, and practised for a short time, but his main interest was in writing. In the early 1860s, he edited the short-lived journal \"The Glow-Worm\" and then joined the staff of \"Fun\", edited by H. J. Byron. He parted company with Byron when the magazine rejected his proposed 1863 literary burlesque of a Reynolds serial, entitled \"Mokeanna, or the White Witness\". He showed his manuscript to Mark Lemon, editor of \"Punch\", who accepted it for publication; Burnand remained a \"Punch\" writer for the rest of his career.\n\n\"Dido\" was followed by \"The Îles of St Tropez\" (1860), \"Fair Rosamond\" (1862) and \"The Deal Boatman\" (1863), among many others. His most memorable early success was another musical burlesque, \"Ixion, or the Man at the Wheel\" (1863), starring Lydia Thompson in the title role, which found audiences on both sides of the Atlantic. By this time Burnand was a skilled negotiator with theatre managements, and he was among the first authors to insist on profit-sharing instead of fixed royalties. For \"Ixion\" this brought him a total of around £3,000. Other notable early works included an opéra bouffe, \"Windsor Castle\" (1865), with music by Frank Musgrave, and more pun-filled burlesques, including \"Helen, or, Taken from the Greek\", and \"Guy Fawkes, or The Ugly Mug and the Couple of Spoons\", both in 1866. Later in 1866 Burnand had a huge success with the burlesque \"The Latest Edition of Black-Eyed Susan; or, the Little Bill that Was Taken Up\", parodying the three-act melodrama by Douglas Jerrold, \"Black-Eyed Susan\"; the show ran for 400 nights at the Royalty Theatre, was played for years provincially and in the US, and was twice revived in London.\nIn 1866, Burnand adapted the popular farce \"Box and Cox\" as a comic opera, \"Cox and Box\", with music by the young composer Arthur Sullivan. The piece was written for a private performance but was repeated and given its first public performance at the Adelphi Theatre in 1867. The reviewer for \"Fun\" was W. S. Gilbert, who wrote\n\n\"Cox and Box\" became a popular favourite and was frequently revived. It was the only work not by Gilbert in the regular repertory of the D'Oyly Carte Opera Company during the 20th century and is the only work of Burnand's still frequently staged. Its success encouraged its authors to write the two-act opera, \"The Contrabandista\" (1867), revised and expanded as \"The Chieftain\" (1894), but it did not achieve much popularity in either version.\n\nMore burlesques followed in 1868, including \"Fowl Play, or, A Story of Chicken Hazard\" and \"The Rise and Fall of Richard III, or, A New Front to an Old Dicky\". In 1869, Burnand wrote \"The Turn of the Tide\", which was a success at the Queen's Theatre, and six other stage works during the course of the year.\n\nBurnand's wife Cecilia died in 1870 at age 28, leaving him with seven small children. In 1874 Burnand married her widowed sister, Rosina (d. 1924), who was also an actress. It was at that time illegal in England for a man to marry his dead wife's sister, although such marriages made outside British jurisdiction were recognised as valid; accordingly the wedding ceremony was performed in continental Europe. There were two sons and four daughters of this marriage.\n\nThroughout the 1870s, Burnand maintained a prodigious output. For the stage he wrote 55 pieces, ranging from burlesques to pantomimes, farces and extravaganzas. He was the sole author of most of them, but worked on a few with Thomas German Reed, J. L. Molloy, Henry Pottinger Stephens and even with H. J. Byron. His stage pieces of the 1870s included \"Poll and Partner Joe\" (1871), \"Penelope Anne\" (1871; a sequel to \"Cox and Box\"), \"The Miller and His Man\" (1873; \"a Christmas drawing room extravaganza\" with songs by Sullivan), \"Artful Cards\" (1877), \"Proof\" (1878), \"Dora and Diplunacy\" (1878, a burlesque of Clement Scott's \"Diplomacy\", an adaptation of Sardou's \"Dora\"), \"The Forty Thieves\" (1878; a charity collaboration among four playwrights, including Byron and Gilbert), \"Our Club\" (1878) and another frequently revived hit, \"Betsy\" (1879). He provided a burlesque of \"Robbing Roy\" to the Gaiety Theatre in 1979. Burnand's prolific writing came at some cost in quality. A biographer wrote that he \"was a facile and slapdash writer. False rhymes and awkward rhythms occur frequently in his verse, and his favourite devices included puns, topical references and slang.\"\n\nBurnand also translated or adapted for the London stage several French operettas by Offenbach, Edmond Audran, Charles Lecocq and Robert Planquette. At the same time as his busy theatrical career, he was a member of the staff of \"Punch\" under Lemon and his successors, Shirley Brooks and Tom Taylor, writing a regular stream of genial articles. His best-known work for the magazine was the column \"Happy Thoughts\", in which the narrator recorded the difficulties and distractions of everyday life. A. A. Milne considered it \"one of the most popular series which has ever appeared in \"Punch\"\"; alongside it, he rated as Burnand's best comic contributions his burlesques of other writers, such as \"The New History of Sandford and Merton\" (1872) and \"Strapmore\" by \"Weeder\" (1878).\n\nThe third editor of \"Punch\", Tom Taylor, died in July 1880; the proprietors of the magazine appointed Burnand to succeed him. In Milne's view the magazine's reputation increased considerably under Burnand:\n\nA later biographer, Jane Stedman, writes, \"His predecessor, Tom Taylor, had allowed the paper to become heavy, but Burnand's rackety leadership brightened it.\" Burnand, who declared himself \"hostile to no man's religion\", banned \"Punch\"'s previous anti-Catholicism, although he was unable to prevent some antisemitic jokes.\n\nOne of Burnand's biggest successes, both in \"Punch\" and on stage, was satire of the aesthetic movement. His play \"The Colonel\" (1881), based on \"The Serious Family\", a play by Morris Barnett, ran for 550 performances and toured extensively. It made so much money for the actor-manager Edgar Bruce that he was able to build the Prince of Wales Theatre. Burnand rushed \"The Colonel\" into production to make sure that it opened several months before Gilbert and Sullivan's similarly themed comic opera, \"Patience\", but \"Patience\" ran even longer than \"The Colonel\". Oscar Wilde, no fan of Burnand's farces, wrote, in anticipation of seeing \"Patience\": \"With Gilbert and Sullivan I am sure we will have something better than the dull farce of \"The Colonel\"\". For the Gaiety Theatre, Burnand wrote a burlesque of \"The Tempest\" entitled \"Ariel\" in October 1883, with music by Meyer Lutz, starring Nellie Farren and Arthur Williams. \"The Times\" complained of the \"flatness and insipidity\" of Burnand's text and of his vulgarising the original. \"The Observer\" was less censorious, finding the piece moderately amusing, and correctly predicting that it would run successfully until it had to make way for the annual Gaiety pantomime at Christmas.\n\nIn 1884, Burnand wrote \"Paw Claudian\", a burlesque of the 1883 costume (Byzantine) drama \"Claudian\" by Henry Herman and W. G. Wills, presented at Toole's Theatre starring J. L. Toole. The same year, he wrote a burlesque of \"Black-Eyed Susan\", called \"Black Eyed See-Usan\", for the Alhambra Theatre. Burnand wrote several musical works around 1889 and 1890 with the composer Edward Solomon, including \"Pickwick\", which was revived in 1894. \"Pickwick\" was recorded by Retrospect Opera in 2016, together with George Grossmith's \"Cups and Saucers\". Other stage pieces included adaptations for Augustine Daly in New York.\n\nIn 1890, Burnand wrote \"Captain Therèse,\" followed later that year by a very successful English version of Audran's operetta, \"La cigale et la fourmi\" (the grasshopper and the ant) retitled \"La Cigale\", with additional music by Ivan Caryll. In 1891, he produced an English adaptation of Audran's \"Miss Helyett\", retitled as \"Miss Decima\". Burnand's \"The Saucy Sally\" premiered in 1892, and \"Mrs Ponderbury's Past\" played in 1895. He was knighted by King Edward VII at Buckingham Palace in 1902, for his work on \"Punch\".\n\nBurnand's 1897 comic opera, \"His Majesty\", with music by Alexander Mackenzie, failed despite the contributions of the lyricist Adrian Ross and a Savoy Theatre cast including Ilka Pálmay, George Grossmith and Walter Passmore. The blame was generally held to be Burnand's. \"The Times\" commented, \"Mr Burnand's experience as a librettist of comic opera, and Sir Alexander Mackenzie's inexperience in this class of composition might lead the public to expect a brilliant book weighed down by music of too serious and ambitious a type. The exact opposite is the case.\" Burnand's libretto was judged dull and confused, but Mackenzie's music was \"marked by distinction as well as humour.\" Stedman comments that Burnand's conviction that he, not Gilbert, should have been Sullivan's main collaborator defied the facts: \"The Chieftain\", his rewrite of \"The Contrabandista\" with Sullivan, ran for only 97 performances in 1894, and \"His Majesty\" managed only 61 performances. Nevertheless, Burnand used his position as editor of \"Punch\" to print antagonistic reviews of the plays of Gilbert and refused to give the Gilbert and Sullivan operas reviews in the magazine.\n\nBurnand's last stage works were a collaboration with J. Hickory Wood, at the Theatre Royal, Drury Lane in 1905, on a pantomime of \"Cinderella\", and he was partly responsible for a pantomime of \"Aladdin\" for the same theatre in 1909. His later contributions to \"Punch\" became increasingly wordy and anecdotal, relying on far-fetched puns, but he was a good judge of talent, and under him the paper prospered. Stedman rates as a high point of his editorship the publication of \"The Diary of a Nobody\" by the brothers George and Weedon Grossmith, which was soon turned into book form and has never been out of print. He was reluctant to retire, but was persuaded to do so in 1906, and was succeeded by Owen Seaman. In 1908, Burnand became the editor of \"The Catholic Who's Who\", published by Burns & Oates.\n\nBurnand lived for much of his life in Ramsgate, Kent, on the south coast of England and was a member of the Garrick Club in London. He had a very large circle of friends and colleagues who included William Makepeace Thackeray, Mark Lemon and most writers, dramatists and actors of the day. George Grossmith wrote:\nAfter a winter of bronchitis, Burnand died in 1917 at his home in Ramsgate, at the age of 80. He was buried in the cemetery at St Augustine's Abbey church in Ramsgate.\n\nBurnand's best-known book, \"Happy Thoughts\", was originally published in \"Punch\" in 1863–64 and frequently reprinted. This was followed by \"My Time and What I've Done with It\" (1874); \"Personal Reminiscences of the A.D.C., Cambridge,\" (1880); \"The Incomplete Angler\" (1887); \"Very Much Abroad\" (1890); \"Rather at Sea\" (1890); \"Quite at Home\" (1890); \"The Real Adventures of Robinson Crusoe\" (1893); \"Records and Reminiscences,\" (1904); and \"The Fox's Frolic: or, a day with the topsy turvy hunt\", illustrated by Harry B. Neilson (1917).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1855027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855027", "title": "The Evil Powers of Rock 'n' Roll", "text": "The Evil Powers of Rock 'n' Roll\n\nThe Evil Powers of Rock 'n' Roll is a studio album by the American rock and roll band Supersuckers. It was released on October 19, 1999, on Koch Records.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1855030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855030", "title": "Robert J. Helberg", "text": "Robert J. Helberg\n\nRobert J. Helberg (1906 – 1967) was an American aeronautical engineer.\n\nHe was born in Watonga, Oklahoma. In 1932 he earned a degree in aeronautical engineering from the University of Washington. After graduation, he worked at the Goss Humidity Control Company in Seattle. Three years later he left to work for the Boeing company.\n\nHelberg's first work at Boeing was on the early YB-17 model of the Flying Fortress. He followed this by work on the Model 307 transport, then on additional models of the B-17. In 1942 he became group engineer on the B-29's electrical systems. By 1946 he was senior group engineer, working on the C-97 Stratofreighter's electrical systems.\n\nIn 1950, he received a promotion to project engineer on an experimental version of a pilotless B-47 Stratojet. (This program was designated \"Project Brass Ring\".) Around 1955 he joined the Bomarc Missile Program, a pilotless interceptor. He worked on this program as assistant project engineer, focused on the guidance and data systems. He later became lead engineer for production, and then head of the Bomarc operation. Helberg was awarded a patent for an \"automatic control cable tensioner\". This device was used in Boeing-built bombers.\n\nIn 1965 he was placed in charge of the company's Lunar Orbiter Program Office, as an assistant division manager in the Spacecraft Systems of the Boeing Space Division. He helped co-design two of the Lunar Orbiter spacecraft.\n\nBy 1966 Helberg had developed a heart condition and was taking nitroglycerin tablets to treat the symptoms. He continued to work almost to his final day, then died of a heart attack in Seattle. He was remembered as gentlemanly and hard-working by his associates.\n\nHe had lived with his wife Helen in the Seattle area. His hobbies included fishing, duck hunting, poker, gardening, and raising trees at a nearby tree farm.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1855031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855031", "title": "Claude Harmon", "text": "Claude Harmon\n\nEugene Claude Harmon, Sr. (July 14, 1916 – July 23, 1989) was an American professional golfer and golf instructor.\n\nBorn in Savannah, Georgia, Harmon spent much of his boyhood in Florida, in the Orlando area. A youthful prodigy, he qualified for the U.S. Amateur at age 15 in 1931. Harmon was a club professional when he won the 1948 Masters Tournament by five shots to earn $2,500. He was a semi-finalist three times in the PGA Championship (1945, 1948, and 1953), competing as a club pro against full-time tour players. Claude Harmon also finished in third place at the 1959 U.S. Open, which was held at his home course at Winged Foot.\n\nFrom 1945 to 1978, Harmon was the head professional at Winged Foot Golf Club in Mamaroneck, New York, and also served as the winter professional for many years at the Seminole Golf Club in Juno Beach, Florida. In 1959, he was hired as the head professional at Thunderbird Country Club in Rancho Mirage, California, where he served for over a decade, and finally took a club job in Texas in the Houston area. In 1959, Harmon played in the U.S. Open at Winged Foot and placed third. He was one of the few close friends of legendary star Ben Hogan, and the two played together frequently and worked together on their games.\n\nHarmon died of heart failure following surgery in Houston at the age 73, and is interred at Desert Memorial Park in Cathedral City, California. He is a member of the World Golf Teachers' Hall of Fame and the PGA of America Hall of Fame.\n\nHarmon's sons Butch, Craig, and Bill all occupy spots in \"Golf Digest's\" \"top 50 teachers\" list. His third eldest son Dick (1947–2006) was also a top golf instructor, as is grandson Claude Harmon III.\n\n\nMajor championship is shown in bold.\n\n\"this list may be incomplete\"\n\nNT = no tournament<br>\nWD = withdrew<br>\nDQ = disqualified<br>\nCUT = missed the half-way cut<br>\nR64, R32, R16, QF, SF = Round in which player lost in PGA Championship match play<br>\n\"T\" indicates a tie for a place\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1855032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855032", "title": "Clarissa Dickson Wright", "text": "Clarissa Dickson Wright\n\nClarissa Theresa Philomena Aileen Mary Josephine Agnes Elsie Trilby Louise Esmerelda Dickson Wright (24 June 1947 – 15 March 2014) was an English celebrity cook, television personality, writer, businesswoman, and former barrister. She was best known as one of the \"Two Fat Ladies\", with Jennifer Paterson, in the television cooking programme. She was an accredited cricket umpire and one of only two women to become a Guild Butcher.\n\nDickson Wright was born in St John's Wood, London, the youngest of four children. Her father, Arthur Dickson Wright, was a surgeon to the Royal Family, and her mother, Aileen Mary (Molly) Bath, was an Australian heiress. She said her father was an alcoholic who subjected his wife and children to verbal and physical abuse. \n\nAt the age of 11, Wright was sent to the Convent of the Sacred Heart, an independent school for girls in the coastal town of Hove in Sussex, and then to the Convent of the Sacred Heart at Woldingham. After school, Wright studied for a law degree at University College London, and undertook her pupillage to become a barrister at Gray's Inn.\n\nDickson Wright was called to the bar in 1970. She later claimed (although she turned 23 that year) that this occurred when she was aged 21, and that she was the youngest woman ever to be called to the bar. After her mother died of a heart attack in 1975, she inherited £2.8 million. Her mother's death, combined a few years later with her father's, left her in a deep depression, and she drank heavily for the following 12 years.\n\nIn 1979, Dickson Wright took control of the food at a drinking club in St James's Place in London. While there she met Clive, a fellow alcoholic, and they had a relationship until his death in 1982 from kidney failure at the age of 40. Shortly thereafter she was disbarred for practising without chambers. Dickson Wright claimed that, during her alcoholic years, she had sex with an MP behind the Speaker's chair in the House of Commons.\n\nIn the early 1980s, she was homeless and staying with friends. For two years she was cook-housekeeper for a family in Sussex until she was fired for her alcohol-induced behaviour. After being charged with driving under the influence, Dickson Wright started to attend Alcoholics Anonymous meetings, counselling, and a detox centre. She attended the Promis Recovery Centre at Nonington. In her 2009 book \"Rifling Through My Drawers\" she expressed a belief in reincarnation. She was a keen supporter of hunting.\n\nBBC2 commissioned a series of \"Two Fat Ladies\". Four series were made and shown around the world. Paterson died in 1999 midway through the fourth series.\n\n\"Two Fat Ladies\" ended after Paterson's death. Dickson Wright appeared with Johnny Scott in \"Clarissa and the Countryman\" from 2000 to 2003 and played the gamekeeper in the sitcom \"Absolutely Fabulous\" in 2003. In 2004 she closed her Edinburgh cookery book shop due to bankruptcy and lost the contract to run a tearoom at Lennoxlove, the seat of the Duke of Hamilton and Brandon. In 2005, Dickson Wright took part in the BBC reality television show \"Art School\".\n\nDickson Wright was elected as Rector of the University of Aberdeen in November 1998, the university's first female rector. Her autobiography, \"Spilling the Beans\", was published in September 2007. In 2008, she presented a one-off documentary for BBC Four, \"Clarissa and the King's Cookbook\", where she makes recipes from a cookbook dating to the reign of Richard II.\n\nAlong with racehorse trainer Sir Mark Prescott, Dickson Wright was charged with hare coursing with dogs in North Yorkshire in March 2007 under a private prosecution lodged by the International Fund for Animal Welfare under the Hunting Act 2004. On 1 September 2009, she and Prescott pleaded guilty and received an absolute discharge at Scarborough Magistrates' Court. They said that they were invited to the event by the Yorkshire Greyhound Field Trialling Club, which told the court that it believed it was running a legal event by using muzzled dogs.\n\nIn October 2012, Dickson Wright appeared on \"Fieldsports Britain\" to discuss badgers and their nutritional value, saying: \"There's going to be a cull, so rather than just throw them in the landfill site, why not eat them?\" In November 2012, she presented a short BBC4 TV series on the history of the British breakfast, lunch and dinner. She was a supporter of the Conservative Party and lived in Inveresk, Scotland.\n\nDickson Wright was hospitalised from the start of 2014, and died in the Edinburgh Royal Infirmary on 15 March 2014 from an undisclosed illness which led to her death from pneumonia.\n\nHer funeral mass was held in Edinburgh at St Mary's Cathedral on 7 April, after which she was cremated.\n\nCookery books:\n\n\nMemoirs:\n\n\nMisc:\n\n\n\n\nSERIES:\n\nGUEST APPEARANCES:\n\n\n2008 BA/Nielsen BookData Author of the Year Award\n\n\"The Two Fat Ladies\" DVD set contains a 40-minute BBC tribute to Paterson that aired in 2004. The DVD box set was released in the United States of America in July 2008. The Acorn Media release contains all 24 episodes across four discs. The show had been released in Britain as a Region 2 DVD set.\n\nHer \"A History of English Food\" was described by \"The Independent\" as \"richly informative\" and \"surely destined for classic status\". The reviewer noted that she had seen badger hams on the bar in the West Country pubs of her childhood, and that a tripe seller in Dewsbury market sold \"nine different varieties of tripe, including penis and udder (which is remarkably like pease pudding).\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1855035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855035", "title": "All the Hype That Money Can Buy", "text": "All the Hype That Money Can Buy\n\nAll the Hype That Money Can Buy is the third studio album by Five Iron Frenzy, released on April 25, 2000, by Five Minute Walk, under their SaraBellum imprint, with distribution from Warner Bros. Records.\n\n\"All the Hype That Money Can Buy\" is Five Iron Frenzy's most musically diverse album, binding elements of salsa, calypso and reggae with ska. Certain tracks also contain impressions of rockabilly, metal and arena rock. Guests appearing on the album include returning member Scott Kerr, Karl Perazzo of Santana, Christian singer Randy Stonehill, Justin McRoberts and The W's members Bret Barker and Valentine Hellmam. The album contains typical Five Iron Frenzy fare, with both serious and humorous content. Even the album's title is self-deprecating humor intended to foil the audience's expectations. In the title track, the band reveals that \"It's so wrong, so far from true. In secret, I'm just like you.\"\n\nThe album contains Five Iron's signature mix of serious and silly content, though it leans toward heavier issues more than previous albums. On the serious side is \"A New Hope\", written in response to the Columbine High School massacre. In \"Giants\", Roper refers to Adam Smiths' \"The Wealth of Nations\" to continue his general attacks on big business and Social Darwinism. In \"Hurricanes\", the vocalist laments \"...and I am a failure / defeated every time...\" before bringing the focus back to hope in Christ. Roper commented to \"HM\" magazine that it was \"...probably the most depressing song you'll ever hear from us.\"\n\nRoper also tackles issues within Christian culture and the church, taking on homophobia and hypocrisy in \"Fahrenheit\". The song refers to Freddie Mercury, the frontman of Queen, who eventually died of AIDS, and the superhero Flash Gordon, a reference to the fact that the score for the 1980s \"Flash Gordon\" movie was composed and performed by Queen. In a 2000 interview, Roper explained that \"everyone will readily admit that homosexuality is a sin, but not that homophobia is just as bad in God's eyes.\" However, in a 2014 blog post, Roper recanted his statements and expressed his displeasure with the song's lyrics, writing that over the years his attitudes on homosexuality had \"softened\" and he no longer considered it a sin. Admitting he was \"ashamed\" of \"Fahrenheit\"s lyrics, he wrote \"At the time, I felt that I was doing the most honorable thing that I could, calling the Church to the carpet on being homophobic. I thought that I could do so by pointing the finger at myself with my own homophobia towards one of my heroes, Freddie Mercury. What bothers me is how arrogant and condemning I still was about homosexuality\".\n\nThe following track is \"Four-fifty-one\", and when read with the previous track their names directly refer to Ray Bradbury's book \"Fahrenheit 451\". The message in the latter track is about isolationism within Christian culture and lukewarm Christianity. Here Roper attacks commercial interests within Christianity such as the Christian music industry, of which he told \"7ball\", \"For the most part it is meant to make [Christians] feel good and not at getting anyone saved.\" Speaking directly to those interests Roper states, \"The radio is preaching the candy coated goo, / the record companies and the TV too. / No one rocks the boat, / terrified of trouble, / can't tamper with the walls of their sterile Christian bubble. / It was never your point to get people saved, / you pad yourself with fluff just because you're afraid. / I'm not afraid to point the finger now, / the choir's so used to the preaching anyhow.\"\n\nOn the more upbeat side, the album opens with \"The Greatest Story Ever Told\" which boldly proclaims the message of Christ and closes with the worshipful \"World Without End\". The album also contains examples of Five Iron's humor and irony. \"You Probably Shouldn't Move Here\" pokes fun at the band's home state of Colorado and at California. \"The Phantom Mullet\" is a satirical look at the Mullet hairstyle popular in the 1980s. \"It's Not Unusual\" is a cover version of the Tom Jones song. A short track entitled \"What's Up\" was hidden in the 3-second \"header\" at the beginning of the album. To find this track, the listener has to start track 1, then hold the rewind button. On the album's back cover, the track was listed as \"Track 0\".\n\nAll lyrics written by Reese Roper, except where noted.\nFive Iron Frenzy\n\nAdditional musicians\n\nProduction\n\nAlbum - Billboard (North America)\n"}
{"id": "1855041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855041", "title": "Helberg (crater)", "text": "Helberg (crater)\n\nHelberg is a lunar impact crater that is located just behind the western limb of the Moon, on the far side from the Earth. Due to libration this part of the surface is sometimes brought into view, and the crater is visible under suitable lighting conditions. However even under these circumstances the crater is viewed from the edge and not much detail can be seen.\n\nThis crater is nearly attached to the east-northeastern rim of the crater Robertson. Within a crater diameter to the northwest lies Berkner, and farther to the east is Bell.\n\nThis is an eroded crater formation which overlies Helberg C along the east-northeastern side and Helberg H to the southeast. The southern rim is somewhat uneven, with an area of intrusion to the southwest. The interior floor has the remains of a crater rim at the northern end. It is otherwise relatively featureless.\n\nBy convention these features are identified on lunar maps by placing the letter on the side of the crater midpoint that is closest to Helberg.\n\n"}
{"id": "1855044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855044", "title": "R23 (South Africa)", "text": "R23 (South Africa)\n\nThe R23 is a provincial route in South Africa that links Kempton Park North and Benoni with Volksrust via Brakpan, Heidelberg and Standerton.\n\nThe R23 begins at the suburb of Birchleigh in the city of Kempton Park, Ekurhuleni, Gauteng at an intersection with the M57 Municipal Route (just south of the M57 Route's intersection with the R25). It heads south-east, bypassing the Glen Marais suburb, before crossing the R21 freeway (Pretoria-Boksburg Highway) as High Road. It then crosses the M32 municipal road and becomes the road separating the Pomona and Bredell suburbs of Kempton Park. At Brentwood Park, it joins the M45 municipal route by way of a left turn onto Great North Road, which marks its entrance into Benoni. At the next junction, the M45 becomes the road to the left towards the Rynfield suburb, leaving the R23 as the main road into Benoni central.\n\nIt crosses the N12 toll highway southwards as Tom Jones Street (And As Bunyan Street Northwards; one-way streets) and enters Benoni central, bypassing Lakeside Mall. It intersects with the R29 in Benoni central and joins Range View Road southwards by way of a right turn at Mackenzie Park. After half-a-kilometre, it becomes Heidelberg Road, bypassing Brakpan, and crosses the N17 toll road at Dalpark, next to where Carnival City is located. By Carnival City, it intersects with Elsburg Road (R554) from Brakpan and proceeds south, bypassing Tsakane, intersecting with the R550 and R103 roads, to cross the N3 freeway and enter Heidelberg (the distance from Benoni to Heidelberg is 45 km).\n\nAt Heidelberg, it becomes Heidelberg-Balfour Road and bypasses Heidelberg Central to the west, being like a highway flying-over roads. It intersects with the R42 between Nigel and Vereeniging at an off-ramp west of the town centre and the northern terminus of the R549 from Deneysville (Vaal Dam) at a t-junction south of the town centre. South of Heidelberg, it crosses back to the east of the N3 freeway (Johannesburg-Durban Highway) and heads east-south-east for 35 km towards Balfour in Mpumalanga. Bypassing Balfour to the south, it intersects with the R51 Road at a roundabout and continues south-east for another 75 km, through Greylingstad, to Standerton on the banks of the Vaal River, where it meets the south-eastern terminus of the R50 from Pretoria/Delmas and the south-western terminus of the R39 from Ermelo. At the same junction, it intersects with the R546 from Kinross/Evander. It is cosigned with the R546 for a few kilometres south-east of Standerton, beginning southwards as Walter Sisulu Drive, then south-east as Nelson Mandela Drive, before they split. Just after crossing the Vaal River, in the suburb of Meyerville, the R546 becomes its own road southwards at the George Street junction while the R23 resumes south-east.\n\nFrom Standerton, the R23 heads south-east for 85 km before reaching its south-eastern terminus at Volksrust, where the R543 meets the N11.\n\nThe R23 Route from Heidelberg, Gauteng up to its junction with the N11 National Route in Volksrust used to be part of the N3 National Route, as part of the old National Route system (before 1970).\n\n"}
{"id": "1855050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855050", "title": "Research associate", "text": "Research associate\n\nResearch associates are researchers (scholars and professionals) that usually have an advanced degree beyond a Master's degree. \n\nA Research Associate is a budgeted position with a formal job description that is perpetual in an academic institution. In some universities/research institutes, such as Harvard/Harvard Medical School/Harvard School of Public Health, the candidate holds the degree of Ph.D. or possess training equivalent to that required for the Ph.D. In addition, the candidate must have demonstrated exceptional fitness in independent research. A Research Associate usually will lead a major part of a research grant. Higher specialized skills and more independence in implementing your own ideas than a postdoctoral research assistant / postdoc. This position allows the candidate to enlarge professional network, get more experience, get publications, fellowships, grants to establish independence as a PI or start looking for a more secure permanent jobs. It can advance to Senior Research Associate (higher pay with more responsibilities equivalent to a PI), Research Scientist, Senior Research Scientist, Principal Research Scientist, and later Head of Research or equivalent.\n\nIn contrast to a research assistant, a research associate often has a graduate degree, such as a master's (e.g. Master of Science) or in some cases Master of Engineering or a doctoral degree (e.g. Doctor of Philosophy, Doctor of Medicine or Doctor of Pharmacy). In some cases it can be synonymous with postdoctoral research, but usually require more advanced skill sets and experience in a field. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1855058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855058", "title": "Natália Correia", "text": "Natália Correia\n\nNatália de Oliveira Correia, (13 September 1923 in Fajã de Baixo (Ponta Delgada), São Miguel, Azores – 16 March 1993 in Lisbon) was a Portuguese intellectual, poet and social activist, as well as the author of the official lyrics of the \"Hino dos Açores\", the regional anthem of the Autonomous Region of the Azores. Her work spanned various genres of Portuguese media and she collaborated with many Portuguese and international figures. A member of the Portuguese National Assembly (1980–1991), she regularly intervened politically on behalf of the arts and culture, in the defense of human rights and women's rights. Along with José Saramago, Armindo Magalhães, Manuel da Fonseca and Urbano Tavares Rodrigues, she helped create the FNDC, \"Frente Nacional para a Defesa da Cultura\" (the National Front for the Defense of Culture). She was a central figure in the artistic scene, who met with peoples central to Portuguese culture and literature in the 1950s and 1960s. Her works have been translated into various languages.\n\nNatália Correia was the daughter of Maria José de Oliveira (born in Capelas, São Miguel, a primary school teacher who had a small success with writing romances, during the 1940s) and Manuel de Medeiros Correia, married in 1918. At the age of eleven, the young Natália, her older sister (Carmen de Oliveira Correia) and mother moved to Lisbon, while their father emigrated to Brazil. She began her studies in Lisbon, and quickly found her interest in literature (publishing her first work, for children: A Grande Aventura de Um Pequeno Herói), and specifically poetry.\n\nShe continued her Arts career in drama, romance, translation, journalism, and editing, becoming familiar with the media in all its forms, as well as television. It was during her work on the program Mátria that she advocated her own special form of feminism, which flowed counter to the politically correct format of the movement. She called it matricismo, where she showed the woman as an archetype of liberal eroticism: passionate and feminine; later her literary notions of Patria' (the nation or fatherland) and \"Mátria\" (the woman) would be extended to Fratria (fraternity).\n\nCorreia's deep affection for her native island's natural beauty is demonstrated profoundly in the themes, images and symbols portrayed in her works, as well as by her affinity for the contemporary authors Antero de Quental and Vitorino Nemésio. She was much influenced by surrealism, Galician-Portuguese poetry, and mysticism, and her works span the spectrum from poetic romanticism to satire. She worked in many different genres: poetry, essays, theater, and anthologies.\n\nWith a talent for oratory and a combative nature, she became active in the movements in opposition to the Estado Novo regime of António Oliveira Salazar, participating in the \"Movimento de Unidade Democrática\" (Movement for Democratic Unity) in 1945, and supporting the Presidential candidacies of Generals Norton de Matos (1949) and Humberto Delgado (1958), as well as joining the \"Comissão Eleitoral de Unidade Democrática\" (Electoral Commission of the Democratic Unity), 1969. For her activism she was condemned to three years in prison, with a suspended sentence, for the publication of her work Antologia da Poesia Portuguesa Erótica e Satírica (Anthology of Portuguese Erotic Poetry and Satire), considered offensive by the authorities in 1966. She was also tried for editorial responsibility for Novas Cartas Portuguesas (New Portuguese Letters) written by Maria Isabel Barreno, Maria Velho da Costa and Maria Teresa Horta. Natália was responsible for coordinating the publications of Editora Arcádia, one of the important Portuguese editors at the time.\n\nIn 1971, with colleagues Isabel Meireles, Júlia Marenha and Helena Roseta, she started the Bar Botequim, where during the decades between 1970 and 1980 she met with a great part of the Portuguese intellectual community.\n\nIn 1980, she was elected to Parliament as a member of the PPD (Partido Popular Democrático).\n\nShe was a friend of António Sérgio, associated with Movimento da Filosofia Portuguesa (Movement of Portuguese Philosophy), David Mourão-Ferreira, José-Augusto França, Luiz Pacheco, Almada Negreiros, Mário Cesariny, Ary dos Santos, Amália Rodrigues, Fernando Dacosta, just to name a few. An enthusiast of the café-concert scene in Portugal, she supported her friend the cross-dresser Guida Scarllaty (the actor Carlos Ferreira). Her home was also a stage for famous writers such as Henry Miller, Graham Greene and Ionesco.\n\nIn 1991, Correia received the Grand Prize in Poetry from the Associação Portuguesa de Escritores (Association of Portuguese Writers), for her book Sonetos Românticos (Romantic Sonnets). In the same year, she was conferred the Ordem da Liberdade (Order of Liberty); she was already the holder of the Ordem de Santiago (Order of St. James).\n\nShe was married four times: in 1942, to Álvaro Pereira, in 1949, to William Creighton Hyler, in 1950, to Alfredo Machado and in March 1990, to Dórdio Leal Guimarães. It was Alfredo Luiz Machado (1904–1989), her \"great passion\", much older and a widower that marked her personal life (the love letters from the youthful Correia to the much older Machado are themselves literary). Her 1990 marriage to Dórdio Guimarães, at 67 years of age, was much more a marriage of convenience with a collaborator and friend.\n\nNatália Correia died in the early morning of 16 March 1993 in Lisbon, of a heart-attack, after returning from the Bar Botequim. In her will, the Azorean bequeathed many of her possessions to the Autonomous Region of the Azores; a permanent exposition in the Public Library and Regional Archive in Ponta Delgada celebrates her literary history. The institution holds many of her literary works (which it shares with the National Library of Lisbon), including many unedited volumes, biographical documents, iconography and correspondence, as well as many works of art her private library.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1855062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855062", "title": "Gafat language", "text": "Gafat language\n\nThe Gafat language is an extinct South Ethiopian Semitic language that was once spoken along Abbay River (Blue Nile) in Ethiopia, and later speakers pushed south of Gojjam in modern day Eastern Wellega Oromia region. Gafat was related to Harari and Gurage dialects. The records of this language are extremely sparse. There is a translation of the Song of Songs written in the 17th or 18th Century held at the Bodleian Library. \n\nCharles Beke collected a word list in the early 1840s with difficulty from the few who knew the language, having found that \"the rising generation seem to be altogether ignorant of it; and those grown-up persons who profess to speak it are anything but familiar with it.\" The most recent accounts of this language are the reports of Wolf Leslau, who visited the region in 1947 and after considerable work was able to find a total of four people who could still speak the language. Edward Ullendorff, in his brief exposition on Gafat, concludes that as of the time of his writing, \"one may ... expect that it has now virtually breathed its last.\"\n\n\nGafat Documents: Records of a South Ethiopic Language (1945) by Leslau\n"}
{"id": "1855071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855071", "title": "R24 (South Africa)", "text": "R24 (South Africa)\n\nThe R24 is a major East-West provincial route in the Gauteng and North West provinces that links OR Tambo International Airport with Rustenburg via Johannesburg, Krugersdorp and Magaliesburg. The process of renaming the streets and freeway that form the route from Krugersdorp eastward to OR Tambo International after anti-apartheid stalwart Albertina Sisulu was completed in 2013.\n\nAfter passing through Central Johannesburg and some of Johannesburg's eastern suburbs (a section maintained by the Johannesburg Roads Agency, a department of the City of Johannesburg), the route becomes a freeway outside Eastgate Shopping Centre in Bedfordview, a section which is maintained by the Gauteng Department of Roads and Transport, part of the Gauteng Provincial Government. This freeway section of the route intersects with the N3 and the N12 at Gillooly's Interchange. There are offramps that lead to Edenvale, and parts of Kempton Park, before the road ends in the vicinity of OR Tambo International Airport, at the R21 leading to Pretoria and Boksburg.\n\nThe R24 begins at Johannesburg International Airport (OR Tambo International Airport) in the East Rand (Ekurhuleni), Gauteng.\n\nIt heads west as a freeway, beginning with an interchange with the R21 (Pretoria-Boksburg Highway), then heads south-west through the southern edge of Kempton Park (where it has a junction at Barbara Road - M59) and Edenvale (where it has a junction at Van Riebeeck Road, also called Edenvale Road - M37).\nIn Bedfordview (after The Edenvale off-ramp), the R24 joins the N12 Freeway from Mpumalanga westwards towards Johannesburg for almost 2 km, with an e-toll gantry on that section of the national road (open road tolling; the only toll on the entire R24 Route) (there is no e-toll on the eastward side of the freeway).\n\nMany motorists have complained of the Loerie e-toll being positioned on the R24, as they believe that the R24 was meant to be a toll-free route for its entire length in which nobody would be charged for transporting from Johannesburg's Airport in Kempton Park to Johannesburg Central. As the R24 in Gauteng is not a route maintained by SANRAL and is not indicated as a toll road, motorists and companies wonder why motorists are being charged for being on a \"National Road\" for only 1 km on the route from Johannesburg's Airport to Johannesburg's city centre. But SANRAL has since changed the signs on both highways connected (N12 & R24) so as for them to indicate that there is an e-toll ahead when travelling westwards to the N3 Gillooly's interchange (every lane on the N12 and R24 west cosigned section passes through the gantry).\n\nRight after the e-toll, at the Gillooly's Interchange with the N3, the N12 leaves the westerly highway and joins the N3 Eastern Bypass southwards on the Johannesburg Ring Road, leaving the R24 as the straight road west into Johannesburg. Just after the interchange with the N3 & N12, it passes north of the Eastgate Shopping Centre and crosses the border between the City Of Ekurhuleni and the City of Johannesburg and the R24 stops being a freeway.\n\nIt passes through some of Johannesburg's eastern suburbs in a south-westerly direction, including Bruma and Kensington, before passing into Johannesburg CBD and becomes two one-way streets (one going east as Albertina Sisulu Road, formerly Market Street, and the other west as Commissioner Street). The Carlton Centre, the second tallest building in Africa (the tallest office building in Africa), is located on Commissioner Street. Just before crossing under Johannesburg's M1 Freeway at the suburb of Newtown, it intersects with the R41 Road (Main Reef Road). The R41 route is an alternative route to the R24 route as they both go west towards Roodepoort.\n\nNext, the R24 runs west to Roodepoort. It passes through the Fordsburg, Mayfair, Mayfair West, Langlaagte North, Crosby, Industria (where it continues by a left & right turn) and Bosmont suburbs before it crosses the N1 Highway (Johannesburg Western Bypass, Johannesburg Ring Road) at the Maraisburg junction and enters Roodepoort. After passing through the Maraisburg and Florida suburbs, the R24 runs in a northwesterly direction through Roodepoort Central. At the Westgate suburb, the R24 leaves the City of Johannesburg Metropolitan Municipality and enters Krugersdorp in the Mogale City Local Municipality.\n\nThrough Krugersdorp, it first passes by Factoria before passing through the southern end of Krugersdorp CBD, where it intersects with the R28 Route. After Krugersdorp West, the R24 makes up the southern border of the Krugersdorp Game Reserve. It then heads north-west, crossing the N14 National Route, towards Magaliesburg, which is a holiday and weekend destination for people of Johannesburg And Pretoria. On this section, before Magaliesburg, it passes by the Tarlton International Raceway.\nAfter Magaliesburg in the Mogale City Local Municipality, the R24 leaves Gauteng and enters the North West Province in a northwesterly direction. It heads for Olifantsnek, where it meets the northern end of the R30 Route and bypasses the Kgaswane Mountain Reserve and the Olifantsnek Dam. After the Kgaswane Reserve, it crosses the N4 Platinum Highway and enters the City of Rustenburg. It meets the R104 (Fatima Bhayat Street) just after crossing the Platinum Highway and proceeds for another 1 kilometre north-north-east to end at a t-junction just west of the Hex River. The entire section of the R24 in North-West Province was regarded as a national road in September 2012 and is now operated by SANRAL. \n\nBy October 2013, every street and freeway that makes up R24 from OR Tambo International Airport, Kempton Park, Ekurhuleni, through Johannesburg and Roodepoort, to Krugersdorp was officially named after Albertina Sisulu, with the exception being in the one-way-street section of Johannesburg, where the street for vehicles going westwards is named Commissioner Street while the parallel street going the other direction is still named after Albertina Sisulu.\n\nThere were plans to rename Commissioner Street to Albertina Sisulu Road and the family of Sisulu welcomed this proposal but as of 2019, the change has not taken place.\n\nThe use of the street name \"Albertina Sisulu Road\" ends in Krugersdorp East (just after leaving Roodepoort), at the junction with Coronation Street. From there, while being the road separating Luipaardsvlei from Krugersdorp CBD, it is known as \"Luipaard Street\". After Krugersdorp CBD, it is known as \"Rustenburg Road\" for the remainder of its length, from Krugersdorp, through Magaliesburg, up to Olifantsnek Dam, where it enters Rustenburg.\n\nAs the R24 is known as the \"Albertina Sisulu Freeway\" in Ekurhuleni between Eastgate Shopping Centre and Johannesburg International Airport, the use of the name doesn't end there. The R21 e-toll freeway is often also called the Albertina Sisulu Freeway, particularly the section from its Johannesburg International Airport interchange with the R24 north to the Flying Saucer Interchange with the N1 near Centurion and Pretoria in City of Tshwane Metropolitan Municipality. Together, the R24 & R21 make up the only other \"highway system\" after the Ben Schoeman Highway that connects Pretoria and Johannesburg.\n\nThe R21 e-toll freeway, together with the freeway section of the R24, was already named the \"Albertina Sisulu Freeway\" by the time of the 2010 FIFA World Cup.\n\n"}
{"id": "1855072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855072", "title": "How the Supersuckers Became the Greatest Rock and Roll Band in the World", "text": "How the Supersuckers Became the Greatest Rock and Roll Band in the World\n\nHow the Supersuckers Became the Greatest Rock and Roll Band in the World is a greatest hits album covering the years 1988 to 1998 of the American rock and roll band, Supersuckers. Released on August 24, 1999, it chronicles the Supersuckers during the years that they were signed to Sub Pop.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1855074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855074", "title": "Sammy Wilson (politician)", "text": "Sammy Wilson (politician)\n\nSamuel Wilson (born 4 April 1953) is a Democratic Unionist Party politician from Northern Ireland who has been the Member of Parliament (MP) for East Antrim since 2005. He served as a Member of the Legislative Assembly (MLA) for Belfast East from 1998 to 2003 and for East Antrim from 2003 until 2015. He served as Lord Mayor of Belfast in 1986 / 1987 and again from June 2000 to June 2001, the first person from the DUP to hold the office. He has also served as Minister of Finance and Personnel and Minister of the Environment in the Northern Ireland Executive. He supports Eurosceptic pressure group Leave Means Leave.\n\nWilson was born in Belfast, Northern Ireland, the son of Alexander Wilson, pastor of Bangor Elim Pentecostal Church. Both of his parents died of Alzheimer's. He was educated at Methodist College in Belfast, and then went on to study Economics and Politics at both Queen's University of Belfast and Stranmillis University College. Wilson's first job was a teaching post at Grosvenor Grammar School. He later became the Head of Economics at the school, and also served as Assistant Chief Examiner for A-Level Economics for the CCEA exam board in Northern Ireland.\n\nIn May 1996, the \"Sunday World\" published a series of candid holiday photographs showing Wilson and his girlfriend naked. Wilson subsequently sued the paper for damages, which were settled out of court. After the incident, Martin McGuinness of Sinn Féin addressed the Northern Ireland Assembly by saying \"It is also very good to come across someone like Mr Sammy Wilson, whom I have never met, and it is great to see him today with his clothes on.\" \n\nWilson began his political life as the Democratic Unionist Party's Press Officer. He served as Press Officer from 1982 to 1996. In 1981, he was elected as a DUP councillor to Belfast City Council, a position that he held until March 2010. Through his membership of the city council, Wilson became the first person from the DUP to serve as Lord Mayor of Belfast in 1986 / 1987. Wilson stood in East Belfast at the 1982 Assembly election but was not elected. He first contested a seat for Parliament in 1992, when he stood for Strangford, but came second with 23% of the vote.\n\nIn January 1994, the Ulster Defence Association (UDA) released a document calling for ethnic cleansing and repartition of Ireland, with the goal of making Northern Ireland wholly Protestant. The plan was to be implemented should the British Army withdraw from Northern Ireland. Some areas with strong Catholic/nationalist majorities near the Irish border would be handed over to the Republic of Ireland, and those Catholics left stranded in the \"Protestant state\" would be \"expelled, nullified, or interned\". Controversially, Wilson called the plan a \"very valuable return to reality\". He added: \"[it] shows that some loyalist paramilitaries are looking ahead and contemplating what needs to be done to maintain our separate Ulster identity\".\n\nIn May 1996, Wilson was elected to the Northern Ireland Forum for the constituency of East Belfast and went on to represent this area in the Northern Ireland Assembly upon its creation in June 1998.\n\nWilson again served as Lord Mayor of Belfast between June 2000 and June 2001. During his time as Mayor, the \"Andersonstown News\" set up a website to highlight Wilson's \"naked sectarianism\". The site included such quotes from Wilson as: \"The GAA is the sporting wing of the IRA\"; \"I don't care if [gays] are ratepayers. As far as I am concerned they are perverts\"; \"Taigs don't pay rates\"; and \"They [Sinn Féin voters in the Oldpark area of Belfast] are sub-human animals\". The \"Andersonstown News\" had challenged Wilson to take legal action if he felt he was being misrepresented. He did not. The website voluntarily shut down when he ended his tenure as Mayor.\n\nIn the 2003 Assembly election, Wilson stood successfully in the East Antrim constituency, alongside fellow DUP candidates George Dawson and David Hilditch. This momentum was carried through to the 2005 Westminster Election on 5 May, which saw Wilson defeat Roy Beggs of the Ulster Unionist Party, to become Member of Parliament for East Antrim with 49.6% of the vote.\n\nWilson is a former member of the Northern Ireland Policing Board and Northern Ireland Housing Council.\n\nIn his role as DUP education spokesman, Wilson was one of the most vocal critics of Education Minister Caitríona Ruane's plan to abolish academic selection and introduce a comprehensive school system in Northern Ireland.\n\nHe resigned from his position as chair of the Education Committee when he took up his role as Minister for the Environment.\n\nIn 2016, he called breastfeeding in the House of Commons chamber \"voyeuristic\" and said \"To me, anyone who chooses to do it in the chamber rather than who do it in the quietness of their office, is doing it for reasons other than simply feeding the child, to make a point\".\n\nOn 25 February 2017, he was interviewed by American broadcaster PBS in which he claimed there \"has always been an affiliation between the Irish republicans and terrorist groups, especially in the Middle East\". He also commented that he agreed with the message behind an Ulster loyalist mural which equated the IRA and Sinn Féin to the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant.\n\nIn March 2019, Wilson was one of 21 MPs who voted against LGBT inclusive sex and relationship education in English schools.\n\nOn 9 June 2008, Wilson joined the Northern Ireland Executive as Minister of the Environment.\n\nHis appointment and tenure as Environment Minister were heavily criticised by environmental groups. Wilson rejects the scientific consensus on climate change. He believes that man-made climate change is a \"myth based on dodgy science\" and \"an hysterical pseudo-religion.\" He says that \"reasoned debate must replace the scaremongering of the green climate alarmists\" and \"resources should be used to adapt to the consequences of climate change, rather than King Canute-style vainly trying to stop it\". This, along with his opposition to the creation of an independent environmental protection agency and his support for nuclear power, led the Green Party to condemn Wilson's \"deeply irresponsible message\" and give him the 'Green Wash' award for being the MLA most likely to damage the environment. Wilson's beliefs on climate change have been likened to \"a cigarette salesman denying that smoking causes cancer\" by John Woods of Friends of the Earth, who added that \"Ironically, if we listen to him Northern Ireland will suffer economically as we are left behind by smarter regions who are embracing the low carbon economy of the future\".\n\nWilson came under renewed criticism in February 2009 when he blocked the broadcast of climate change advertisements on television, calling them part of an \"insidious propaganda campaign\". He also stated \"that future ecological messages could only be promoted in Northern Ireland with his permission\". \"New Scientist\" magazine stated that despite the minister's comments, \"the overwhelming majority of scientists do agree that there is a greater than 90% chance that the rate at which we burn fossil fuels is driving climate change\".\n\nIn the June 2009 Executive reshuffle, Wilson became Minister of Finance and Personnel. He was praised by First Minister Peter Robinson, who said that Wilson was the \"most qualified Finance Minister that Northern Ireland has had in decades\".\n\nIn August 2009, Wilson was the subject of criticism from the Northern Ireland Council for Ethnic Minorities for saying that \"jobs should go to people born in Northern Ireland before going to economic migrants\". Following racist attacks on Romanian people in Belfast, Wilson commented that \"charges of racism were always coincided with the holding out of the hand for more money\". The Northern Ireland Assembly Standards Committee dismissed complaints made against him over these remarks.\n\nWilson's tenure as Finance Minister coincided with the worst recession in the history of Northern Ireland. He criticised banks in Northern Ireland for not increasing lending to businesses. Wilson was commended for displaying leadership and received cross-party support for stopping bonuses to civil servants during the recession.\n\nWilson was replaced as Finance Minister in July 2013 by DUP colleague Simon Hamilton, in a planned reshuffle.\n\nWilson caused controversy in March 2016 during a \"BBC Spotlight\" episode discussing the implications of the EU referendum, when he was recorded agreeing with a member of the public who said that they wanted to leave the European Union and \"get the ethnics out\". Wilson stated \"You are absolutely right\". Wilson claimed he was agreeing with the desire to leave the European Union, not the \"ethnics out\" call. Wilson was criticised by the Polish consul in Northern Ireland and various other political parties.\n\nAs the DUP's Brexit spokesman, Wilson said in January 2019 it was \"perfectly possible\" that Theresa May would be able to negotiate a revised withdrawal agreement which removes the Northern Ireland backstop.\n\n"}
{"id": "1855076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855076", "title": "Luís Cruls", "text": "Luís Cruls\n\nLuíz Cruls or Luís Cruls or Louis Ferdinand Cruls (21 January 1848 – 21 June 1908) was a Belgian-Brazilian astronomer and geodesist. He was Director of the Brazilian National Observatory from 1881 to 1908, led the commission charged with the survey and selection of a future site for the capital of Brazil in the Central Plateau, and was co-discoverer of the Great Comet of 1882. Cruls was also an active proponent of efforts to accurately measure solar parallax and towards that end led a Brazilian team in their observations of 1882 Transit of Venus in Punta Arenas, Chile.\n\nCruls was born in 1848 in Diest, Belgium, the son of Philippe Augustin Guillaume Cruls (a civil engineer) and Anne Elizabeth Jordens. From 1863 to 1868, Cruls studied civil engineering at the University of Ghent. In 1869 he undertook training as a military engineer and officer, graduating as a 2nd Lieutenant. Cruls served in the Belgian army, attaining the rank of 1st Lieutenant, until 1873 or 1874 (sources disagree).\n\nLikely inspired by Brazilian friends at University (including Caetano de Almeida Furquim, a fellow engineer), Cruls resigned his commission and set out for Brazil on 5 September 1874. During the trans-Atlantic crossing on the steamer \"Orénoque\", Cruls met and became friends with Joaquim Nabuco, a journalist and abolitionist, and also the son of Jose Thomas Nabuco, an influential Brazilian politician. Nabuco's connections were to provide Cruls with access to the highest levels of Brazilian society.\n\nWithin weeks after Cruls' arrival in Brazil, Joaquim Nabuco and his father arranged for him to be presented to Dom Pedro II, Emperor of Brazil, and more importantly, to meet Buarque de Macedo, the Director General of the Ministry of Public Works. This latter meeting led to Cruls being hired as an engineer by the Commission of the Empire General Charter \"(Comissão da Carta Geral do Império)\" in the Geodesy section.\n\nIn January 1875 Cruls was forced to return to Belgium for family reasons. The Commission took Cruls' unexpected return as an opportunity, and assigned him the duty of assisting the Brazilian ambassador in coordinating the receipt and transportation of geodesic instruments that the Commission had previously purchased. While in Europe, published his first major paper, \"Discussion of the Methods of Repetition and Reiteration Employed in Geodesy for the Angles\". Crul's monograph analyzed the various methods then used to fix geographic points via triangulation. This work won Cruls the respect of Emmanuel Liais, director of the Imperial Observatory in Rio de Janeiro, who would later hire him in 1877. Cruls returned to Brazil in June 1875 and continued his work with the Commission until its dissolution.\n\nCruls married Maria Margarida de Oliveira on 26 May 1877. Luiz and Maria would remain married until his death. The Cruls made their home in the Rio neighborhood of Laranjeiras and had six children: Edmée, Stella, Sylvie, Maria Luísa, Henri (who died as a child), and Gastão. would not only grow up to follow in his father's footsteps and an astronomer and geographer, but also would go on to have a successful career as writer, publishing both novels and non-fiction.\n\nIn December 1877, Emmanuel Liais appointed Cruls to the Commission on Longitude, a position at the Imperial Observatory. (After Brazil became a republic in 1889, the Observatory's name was changed to Observatory of Rio de Janeiro, and in 1909, to the National Observatory of Brazil, the name by which it is known today.) Over the next two years, under the tutelage of Liais, Cruls produced several works that helped to build his international reputation as an astronomer:\n\n\nCruls would go on to publish a total thirty-five papers, monographs, and books on astronomy in his lifetime; the majority would be published in \"Comptes Rendus\" In 1879, Cruls was promoted to Assistant Astronomer, based both on his work at the Observatory and the high regard Liais had for Cruls' scientific capabilities.\n\nOn 12 February 1881, Cruls was naturalized as a Brazilian citizen by Emperor Dom Pedro II. Cruls took this opportunity to formally change his first name to \"Luíz\", the Brazilian form of \"Louis\" or \"Luís\". A few months later, Cruls's mentor Emmanuel Liais resigned, and Cruls was appointed as interim director of the Imperial Observatory. Liais had become worn down by public accusations of scientific incompetence and dishonesty from Manoel Pereira Reis (an astronomer he had dismissed as head of the Commission of the Empire General Charter in 1878) and returned to Cherbourg, France. However, Pereira Reis was to transfer his animosity to Cruls, and would remain a persistent critic of Cruls and the Observatory for the rest of his life.\n\nIn his \"Biographical Encyclopedia of Astronomers\", Thomas Hockey cites 1882 as Cruls' annus mirabilis. In that single year, Cruls co-discovered the Great Comet of 1882, led a Brazilian expedition in observations of the 1882 Transit of Venus, and received the Valz Prize from the French Academy of Sciences.\n\nIn its obituary for Cruls, Nature cited Cruls' observations of the 1882 Transit of Venus at Punta Arenas as one of his most important achievements in astronomy. In 1883, Cruls shared the Valz prize with English astronomer William Huggins for his work on spectral analysis of the Great Comet of 1882.\n\nCruls Crater on Mars is named in his honor. The Cruls Islands in the southern Wilhelm Archipelago off the coast of the Antarctic Peninsula are also named for him, as is Refuge Astronomer Cruls, a Brazilian Antarctic summer base. Cruls was also honored on a Brazilian postage stamp in 1992 celebrating the centennial of the Cruls Commission.\n\n"}
{"id": "1855077", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855077", "title": "Conor Murphy", "text": "Conor Murphy\n\nConor Terence Murphy (born 10 July 1963) is an Irish republican Sinn Féin politician who is the Member of the Legislative Assembly of Northern Ireland for Newry and Armagh. He served as the Member of Parliament for Newry and Armagh from 2005 till 2015.\n\nMurphy was born in Camlough, South Armagh and joined the Provisional Irish Republican Army (IRA) during the 1981 hunger strikes. In 1982 he was sentenced to five years in prison for IRA membership and possession of explosives.\n\nBetween 1989 and 1997, he was a Sinn Féin councillor on Newry and Mourne District Council for The Fews area, in South Armagh and South Down, and served as his party's group leader at that level.\nIn 1998, Murphy was elected as one of his party's two Northern Ireland Assembly members for Newry and Armagh. He was re-elected, with two party colleagues, to the Assembly in 2003. He lives in Camlough, County Armagh with his wife Catherine, his daughter Áine and his son Oisín. He attended St Colman's College, Newry, Queen's University of Belfast (QUB), and the University of Ulster.\n\nIn 2001, he contested the Newry and Armagh Westminster seat, coming second to incumbent Séamus Mallon of the Social Democratic and Labour Party (SDLP). When Mallon decided not to contest the seat again, Murphy became the clear favourite to win and was elected on 5 May 2005.\nHe refused to take his seat in the House of Commons of the United Kingdom in line with the abstentionist policy of Sinn Féin. In the Northern Ireland Assembly, he served as the Minister for Regional Development in the Northern Ireland Executive from 8 May 2007 until 16 May 2011. While on a tour of UK party conferences in autumn 2005, he became the first Irish republican to address the Conservative Party conference and caused controversy by refusing to express regret over the Brighton hotel bombing.\nIn 2011, while Minister for Regional Development, Murphy appointed Seán Hogan, a Catholic, as head of Northern Ireland Water, turning down the applications of four Protestants on the shortlist. A tribunal subsequently awarded £150,000 damages for discrimination to one of these applicants, Alan Lennon, judging that Hogan was appointed because \"he was not from a Protestant background and because he was known to the minister and his (then Sinn Fein) ministerial colleagues Michelle Gildernew and Caitríona Ruane, who were consulted about the appointment.\" The tribunal found Murphy's evidence was \"implausible and lack[ing] credibility\", and that, during Murphy's tenure at the Department for Regional Development, there was a \"material bias against the appointment of candidates from a Protestant background\". Murphy disputed the finding which he said branded him \"sectarian\". Deputy First Minister of Northern Ireland Martin McGuinness defended him, claiming Murphy doesn't have \"a sectarian bone in his body\".\nIn December 2012, Murphy appeared as a witness at Belfast High Court in the case of Declan Gormley, whom Murphy had sacked in 2010 from his post as a non-executive director of NI Water. Gormley sued Sinn Féin over two press releases which he argued were defamatory. Gormley was subsequently offered £80,000 in damages.\n\nIn 2007, shortly after the murder of Paul Quinn, Conor Murphy said in an interview with Spotlight that \"Paul Quinn was involved with smuggling and criminality and I think that everyone accepts that.\"\n\nDuring the 2020 Irish general election Conor Murphys' comments were an issue. Breege Quinn said that her son was definitely not involved in criminality and called on Conor Murphy to withdraw his remarks and make a public apology to the Quinn family. On 6 February 2020 Conor Murphy spoke to RTÉ and said that he had withdrawn the remarks he had made in 2007 and apologised to the Quinn family. Breege Quinn repeated her call for him to resign as Minister for Finance at Stormont. She said he \"should finish off and get justice\" for the Quinn family. She said he should \"go and tell the PSNI and the Gardaí exactly who he was speaking to\" in the IRA after the murder. She said she would not meet Conor Murphy until he \"comes out publicly saying that he is going to the PSNI to give the names of the IRA that he spoke to in Cullyhanna\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1855078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855078", "title": "Constitution of the Republic of Texas", "text": "Constitution of the Republic of Texas\n\nThe Constitution of the Republic of Texas was the supreme law of Texas from 1836 to 1845.\n\nOn March 2, 1836, Texas declared itself an independent republic due to a lack of support from the United States in their revolutionary movement. The declaration of independence was written by George Childress and modeled after the United States Constitution. Lorenzo de Zavala helped in the drafting of the Constitution of the Republic of Texas, personally designing its flag, and serving as Vice President.\n\nA copy of the Constitution of the Republic of Texas was included with the declaration of independence. The constitution borrowed language from the U.S. Constitution along with the constitutions of several southern states. It formed a unitary republic, rather than a federal one as defined in the U.S. Constitution. Presidential terms were established at three years and they could not succeed themselves, modeling after provisions in the Mexican Constitution. The constitution also protected the right to own slaves and prohibited \"Indians\" and \"Africans\" from living freely in the country and from becoming Texan citizens.\n\nA constitutional convention began following the declaration of independence and an interim government was put into place. The convention adopted a document on March 16, 1836 and adjourned on March 17, 1836. Because of the defeat of Santa Anna at San Jacinto on April 22, 1836, war with Mexico was over. When June came around, the Republic of Texas had de facto independence as they were unrecognized by Mexico, but Mexico was unable to bring the republic to an end. Interim President Burnet on July 23, 1836 was calling for elections, ratifying the constitution, and was answering if Texas should pursue annexation into the United States, later to occur on the first Monday of September. Following the September elections, the constitution was ratified, Sam Houston was elected President with Mirabeau Buonaparte Lamar as his Vice President. Seeking annexation was favored.\n\nOn March 1, 1845, the U.S. enacted a congressional joint resolution proposing the annexation of Texas to the United States (Joint Resolution for annexing Texas to the United States, J.Res. 8, enacted March 1, 1845, ). On June 23, 1845, the Texan Congress accepted the U.S. Congress' joint resolution, and consented to President Jones' calling a convention to be held on July 4, 1845. A Texas convention debated the annexation offer and almost unanimously passed an ordinance assenting to it on July 4, 1845. The convention debated through August 28, and adopted the Constitution of the State of Texas on August 27, 1845. The citizens of Texas approved an annexation ordinance and a new constitution on October 13, 1845. On December 29, 1845, the United States admitted the State of Texas to the Union (Joint Resolution for the admission of the state of Texas into the Union, J.Res. 1, enacted December 29, 1845, ).\n\nThe Constitution of the Republic of Texas contains nine portions, six Articles, Schedule, General Provisions, and Declaration of Rights.\n\nArticle I establishes the three branches of government, Legislative, Executive, and Judicial. It contains sections that define in greater detail the Legislative branch. The Legislature is defined as a Senate and House of Representatives that are to be called The Congress of the Republic of Texas. Members of the House are to be chosen on the first Monday of September and to hold their office for one year until other provisions are made. In order for someone to hold a seat in the House they need to be at least twenty-five, a citizen of the republic, and to reside in the county or district they represent for six months prior to the election. The House is not to consist of less than twenty-four or more than forty members until the population reaches one hundred thousand, then it shall not be less than forty or more than one hundred members.\nSenators are chosen by their districts equal in free population, this only counts the white population. The number of senators is to never be less than one third or more than one-half of Representatives. Each district is to have one member. Senators are chosen for a three-year term on the first Monday of September. They have to be citizens of the Republic, reside in the district they represent for at least one year before the election, and be at least thirty. The Vice President is to be the President of the Senate but does not vote unless there is a tie. Each house is the judge of elections, qualifications, and returns of its own members. Two-thirds of each House is needed for a quorum, a smaller number can still adjourn and call those you are not in attendance. Houses are able to determine their own rules for proceedings and punishment. Vacancies that happen in either house are to be filled by the President.\nThe President is required to sign passed bills and can send them back. If he does that then a two-thirds majority of both Houses can enact the law.\n\nArticle II defines the powers of Congress. It gives them the ability to tax, borrow money, and requires them to provide for the general welfare of the Republic. They are given the power to regulate commerce. Congress can declare war and is required to provide and maintain a navy.\n\nArticle III defines a portion of the Executive. The President is to be the chief magistrate of the Republic of Texas. The first elected President serves two years and cannot serve a succeeding term. Following Presidents are elected for three years and cannot serve a succeeding term as well.\n\nArticle IV establishes the judiciary and the Supreme Court. It gives Congress the power to establish lower courts. There are to be no less than three and no more than eight judicial districts. After defining court structure, Article IV establishes counties while allowing provisions for new counties to be made.\n\nArticle V requires members of Congress or any person that enters office to take an oath. It also forbids ministers of the gospel from holding office as it would distract them from their Godly duties.\n\nArticle VI builds on Article III and defines the role and power of the President. The President is required to be at least thirty five, a citizen, and lived in the Republic for at least three years before election, unless they lived there at time of independence. On the second Monday of December after the election, the President enters office. He is to be the commander in chief of the army and navy, but does not command them personally unless authorized by Congress.\nIt also defines voting qualifications and how voting is to be handled. Any citizen who is twenty one and has been in Texas for six months can vote. Elections are to all be by ballot unless Congress determines otherwise.\n\nSchedule deals with the formation of the interim government that was needed as a rule of the declaration of independence.\n\nGeneral Provisions establishes laws, duties, and rights that did occur earlier in the Constitution. Convicted criminals are not able hold office, vote, or be on juries. Congress is required to establish and fund a system of education. Any white person who lives in the Republic for at least six months can take an oath to become a citizen.\n\nSlaves who are brought to Texas are to remain slaves as property of the one who brought them in and they are not allowed to be freed by their owner without consent of Congress. Congress is not allowed to make laws that effect the slave trade or declare emancipation. Someone with any amount of African descent who is free is not allowed to live in the Republic without the consent of Congress. It declares all people who are not of African or Indian descent citizens who lived in Texas at the time of declaration of independence citizens.\n\nThe head of a family is entitled to one league and labor of land. Every man who is at least seventeen is entitled to one third of a league of land. Amendments to the Constitution are allowed as long as they are agreed to by a majority of each House. They then are put to a vote by the people before ratification.\n\nDeclaration of Rights establishes how people should be treated by the government and what freedoms they are allowed. All men are to have equal rights. It establishes that political power is to be held by the people. It says that no preference by law is to be given to any religion and allow for freedom of religion. Citizens are allowed full liberty of speech and no laws are to be made to harm that.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1855083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855083", "title": "R25 (South Africa)", "text": "R25 (South Africa)\n\nThe R25 is a provincial route in South Africa that connects Johannesburg with Groblersdal via Kempton Park, Bapsfontein and Bronkhorstspruit.\n\nThe R25 begins in the suburb of Saxonwold, just north of the Johannesburg Zoo, at an intersection with Jan Smuts Avenue, Johannesburg's M27 Road. It heads eastwards, meeting the M1 freeway (northbound access only), up to the junction with Louis Botha Avenue, Johannesburg's M11 Road, where it joins the road northwards up to the next junction, where it continues by a right turn. It makes its way north-east through the suburb of Sandringham, bypassing Edenvale Hospital, before crossing the N3 Highway (Johannesburg Eastern Bypass; Johannesburg Ring Road) and passing by Greenstone Hill, where Greenstone Shopping Mall is located.\n\nIt continues north-east as Modderfontein Road, with Greenstone Shopping Mall on the southern side and Longmeadow Business Estate on the northern side. After meeting the M37 municipal route from Edenvale Central and the M54 municipal route from Alexandra in Greenstone, the R25 bypasses Modderfontein and crosses the border between the City of Johannesburg Metropolitan Municipality and the City of Ekurhuleni Metropolitan Municipality. It then goes through the western and northern suburbs of the city of Kempton Park.\n\nIn Kempton Park, it passes by the area separating Kempton Park West from Esther Park, where it crosses the M39 municipal route (Zuurfontein Avenue), the road between Isando and Midrand/Tembisa. It then becomes the road separating Edleen and Van Riebeeck Park from Terenure. it then becomes the road separating Birchleigh from Norkem Park and Birchleigh North. Then, it passes the last suburb of Kempton Park, which is Esselen Park, where it meets the M57 route between Kempton Park and Olifantsfontein. This is where Modderfontein Road ends at the t-junction.\n\nThe M57 north-south municipal route (Pretoria Road) meets the R25 at a t-junction just north of its junction with the R23 route from Benoni. The R25 joins the M57 northwards, with the new Witfontein Extension to its left, up to the next junction (a busy 4-way junction) near Tembisa, where R25 becomes the road to the right (east). Right after, it crosses the R21 highway between Pretoria and Johannesburg International Airport and makes a direct line for Bapsfontein. The distance is 20 km between Kempton Park North and Bapsfontein.\n\nAt Bapsfontein, the R25 meets the R50 from Pretoria and joins it going south-east up until the junction with the R51 from Daveyton (the main four-way junction of Bapsfontein). At that junction, as the R51 is the road south-west to Benoni East and Daveyton, the R25 becomes the same road heading north-east from that junction towards Bronkhorstspruit while the R50 continues south-east to Delmas. While pointing towards Bronkhorstspruit, the R25 meets the eastern termini of the M6 and M30 municipal routes, which come from Lynnwood and Garsfontein in Pretoria east respectively.\n\nThe R25 meets the R42 from Delmas right before entering Bronkhorstspruit in the City of Tshwane Metropolitan Municipality. It intersects with the N4 Highway and the R104 road (both coming from Pretoria) and goes northwards through Bronkhorstspruit. The distance is 40 km between Bapsfontein and Bronkhorstspruit.\n\nAfterwards, the R25 temporarily goes into Mpumalanga, where it intersects with the R544 from Witbank in the town of Verena, before proceeding into Limpopo province, where it ends in the vicinity of the small farming town of Groblersdal, terminating at a junction with the N11 and the R33. The distance is 110 km between Bronkhorstspruit And Groblersdal.\n\n"}
{"id": "1855091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855091", "title": "Mobile Netherlands", "text": "Mobile Netherlands\n\nThe Mobile Netherlands (\"Nederland Mobiel\") is a political party in the Netherlands without parliamentary representation.\n\nIt was founded on December 5, 1997 by members of the PRO AUTO transport advocacy organization out of dissatisfaction with the policies of the Purple Kok coalition cabinet. Led by Jan Holsteijn and primarily concentrated in Spijkenisse, Mobile Netherlands primarily advocates for improvement of government-owned or regulated mobility and transport facilities. \n\n"}
{"id": "1855096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855096", "title": "Disco Rick", "text": "Disco Rick\n\nDisco Rick (a/k/a Ricky Taylor) is a Miami bass hip-hop musician who has served as performer and producer over the past 15 years.\n\nRick began his music career with the Gucci Crew in the early 1980s, mixing music and writing lyrics that would go on to help define the Miami sound. He decided to strike out on his own before the group recorded their second album, and in 1990, he released his first LP with The Dogs - a group he co-founded on Joeyboy Records. This self-titled debut launched the hits \"Crack Rock\" and \"Take It Off,\" and was followed up in 1991 with the highly successful \"Beware of the Dogs\" album. This LP added hits like \"Nasty Dance\" and \"Get Down\" to the group's repertoire, and comparisons to 2 Live Crew were often made of The Dogs among Miami bass and dirty rap fans.\n\nRick soon decided to strike out on a solo career, toying with the notion on his 1991 release, \"The Negro's Back\". While tracks on the LP did feature The Dogs, and its 12\" singles did gain club notoriety, it wasn't until 1992 that Disco Rick officially split from the group and signed with Luke Records. There he released the album \"Back from Hell\" as Disco Rick and the Wolf Pack, and scored a hit with the song \"Wiggle Wiggle.\"\n\n1992 proved the end of the line for the recording careers of not only Disco Rick, but The Dogs as well. The latter's final LP, \"K-9 Bass\", was released later that year without Disco Rick, and neither the group nor its onetime leader could gain the momentum apart that they had once had as a cohesive unit.\n\nRick soon turned his attention to production, going on to assist in the recording careers of artists such as Bone Thugs N Harmony, (Krayzie 'Bone, Bizzyie Bone), Ice-T, Fat Joe, and many others. Rick gave Lil Jon a brand new MPC-3000 beat player in 1996 and showed Lil Jon how to work it before leaving Atlanta to go back home to Miami to work with Bone Thugs. Shortly thereafter, Rick received a call from Lil Jon inviting him to come and work with him on the Kings of Crunk album.\n\nDisco Rick has gained a lot of respect over the years in the South with regional artists like Trick Daddy, Dirtbag, Pretty Ricky and more. Local radio stations in Miami keep a close lookout for Rick because he has a knack for bringing local talent to the national spotlight. Disco Rick is also one of the biggest club promoters in Miami, and that gives him access to DJs throughout the city. Rick's studio talents range from writing, producing, recording and mixing, to operations manager for Audio Vision Studios, where he currently spends his time managing and producing for Vision Records, the sister company of AVS.\n\nhttp://www.audiovisionstudios.com/rick.htm\n\nJoeyBoy Records - JR 2003<br>\nReleased March 28, 1990<br>\n1. Intro<br>\n2. Where Is Disco Rick At?<br>\n3. Let's Go, Let's Go<br>\n4. Fuck the President<br>\n5. Ten Little Niggers<br>\n6. Lick It<br>\n7. Take It Baby<br>\n8. Dog Call<br>\n9. Take It Off<br>\n10. Crack Rock<br>\n11. Who Gives a Fuck<br>\n12. Get Loose<br>\n13. Fuck You All\n\nJoeyBoy Records - JR 2004<br>\nReleased late 1990<br>\n1. Intro<br>\n2. The Negro's Back<br>\n3. Stopped In Mississippi<br>\n4. Don't Do It \"Nut\"<br>\n5. Babies In Trash Cans<br>\n6. Flea Market<br>\n7. Fuck You<br>\n8. Suck That Dick<br>\n9. Hi-Ho<br>\n10. Let Us Get That Ass Baby<br>\n11. Let's Get Muthafuckin Stupid<br>\n12. Fuck Around the Clock<br>\n13. Fuck You All No. ll<br>\n14. End\n\nJoeyBoy Records - JR 2006<br>\nReleased June 4, 1991<br>\n1. Intro<br>\n2. Talking True Shit<br>\n3. Radio<br>\n4. Get Down<br>\n5. Fuck All Night<br>\n6. Life About Crack<br>\n7. Sexy's Got Beef<br>\n8. Nasty Dance<br>\n9. Work that Ass Baby<br>\n10. Got that Spirit<br>\n11. I Know a Bitch<br>\n12. Hyped Up<br>\n13. Dogga Mix<br>\n14. Fuck You All III\n\nJoeyBoy Records - JR 2007<br>\nReleased November 17, 1992<br>\n\"(Note: Although Disco Rick did not appear on this album, it is included to preserve the history of The Dogs, whom Rick founded.)\"<br>\n1/2. Commin' Correct<br>\n1. Outta Gas<br>\n1 1/2. Dogs - Gimme Some Mo'<br>\n2. Shake Dance<br>\n2 1/2. Pussy on Cum Fire<br>\n3. Suck It Before I Fuck It<br>\n3 1/2. Bitch, Give Up the Money<br>\n4. Gimme, Gimme, Gimme<br>\n4 1/2. Shoot the Fucker<br>\n5. Mutt Them Ho's<br>\n5 1/2. Live with the Dogs<br>\n6. It's Time 2 Groove<br>\n7. Dogga Mixxx II<br>\n8. Dookie Shoot<br>\n8 1/2. Long and Strong<br>\n9. Pass the Pussy<br>\n10. Broamin<br>\n11. The Bite Has Begun<br>\n11 1/2. Dog's Barking\n\nLuke Records - XR 121-2<br>\nReleased December 17, 1992<br>\n1. Intro<br>\n2. Fuck'em Up Rick<br>\n3. Miami \"Liberty City\"<br>\n4. Who's N the House<br>\n5. Don't Need U Bitch<br>\n6. Let's Go Some Mo'<br>\n7. Yes She Did<br>\n8. Can U Feel It<br>\n9. Let Me Lick U Girl<br>\n10. Wiggle Wiggle<br>\n11. The Fuck House<br>\n12. \"Condom\" Commercial<br>\n13. Back from Hell<br>\n14. Hop-a-Lon<br>\n15. Shoutouts<br>\n16. Wanna Record Deal\n\nPuff Daddy, Faith Evans, MJG, Mario Winans, DMX, Bone Thugs-n-Harmony, Method Man & Redman, Cypress Hill, Ice-T, Kane, Betty Wright, Chaka Khan, Inner Circle, Black Rob, JT Money, Raekwon, Trick Daddy, Nate Dogg, Fat Joe, Loon, Bobby Brown, Teddy Riley, Ringo Starr, Layzie Bone, Felecia and Mo Thugs Family, The Wailers, Dollar Bill, Daz Dillinger, Iconz, Big Stan, Just Blaze, Deuce Poppi, 3re The Hard Way, Hangmen 3, Made Men, Benzino, Drama, Field Mob and Big Pun.\n\nUniversal, Motown, MCA, Sony, Bad Boy Entertainment, Columbia, Def Jam/Island, Loud, Atlantic, Arista, Warner Bros., Slip N' Slide Records, Ruthless Records, TVT Records, SoSo Deff, D-3 Entertainment, TK Records, JoeyBoy Records, Luke Records, Vision Records.\n"}
{"id": "1855098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855098", "title": "Democratic Vanguard Party", "text": "Democratic Vanguard Party\n\nDemocratic Vanguard Party (in Spanish: \"Partido Vanguardia Democrática\"), was a political party in Peru. Its general secretary was H. Merel.\n"}
{"id": "1855100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855100", "title": "R26 (South Africa)", "text": "R26 (South Africa)\n\nThe R26 is a provincial route in South Africa that connects Zastron with Villiers via Bethlehem.\nThe R26 begins in the town of Rouxville, at a t-junction with the N6 National Route. It begins by going north-east for 30 kilometres to meet the western terminus of the R726 and bypass the town of Zastron. From Zastron, the R26 goes northwards for 65 kilometres, following the border with Lesotho, to the town of Wepener near the Van Rooyen's Gate border with Lesotho, where it meets the R702 Road. The R702 & R26 become one road for a few kilometres westwards. Just after crossing the Caledon River, at the junction with the R701 Road, the R702 remains on the road westwards while the R26 turns northwards.\n\nThe R26 continues north-east, still following the Lesotho border, for 28 kilometres to the town of Hobhouse, where it meets the southern terminus of the R709 Road. From Hobhouse, the R26 goes north-east for 40 kilometres to reach a junction with the N8 National Route. They form one road eastwards for 12 kilometres before the R26 becomes its own road northwards and bypasses the town of Ladybrand to the east.\n\nFrom Ladybrand, the R26 continues northwards for 35 kilometres to the town of Clocolan, where it meets the southern terminus of the R708 Road. From Clocolan, the R26 goes eastwards for 30 kilometres to the town of Ficksburg, which is another border point into Lesotho. Just After Ficksburg, the R26 meets the southern terminus of the R70 Road. From the R70 junction, the R26 goes north-east for 40 kilometres, following the Lesotho borderline again, to the town of Fouriesburg, where it meets the western terminus of the R711 Road.\n\nFrom Fouriesburg, the R26 goes northwards for 48 kilometres to the city of Bethlehem. At the intersection with the N5 National Route in Bethlehem, as the straight road northwards is the R76 Road, the R26 joins the N5 eastwards for a few kilometres before becoming its own road northwards and meeting the western end of the R714 Road.\n\nFrom the R714 junction, the R26 goes northwards for 48 kilometres to bypass the town of Reitz and intersect with the R57 Road. From the R57 junction, the R26 proceeds northwards for 58 kilometres, bypassing Tweeling, to reach an intersection with the R34 Road. The R26 & R34 become one road eastwards, crossing the Wilge River into the town of Frankfort.\n\nEast of Frankfort, the R26 becomes its own road, going north-north-east for 28 kilometres to the town of Villiers, where it ends at an off-ramp junction with the N3 National Route and the R103 Route just north of the Villiers Toll Plaza on the N3.\n\n"}
{"id": "1855102", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855102", "title": "Party for Justice, Action and Progress", "text": "Party for Justice, Action and Progress\n\nThe Party for Justice, Action and Progress (\"Partij voor Rechtvaardigheid, Daadkracht en Vooruitgang\") was a political party in the Netherlands without parliamentary representation. It was founded May 2005 by the crime journalist Peter R. de Vries. The abbreviation of the party's name, PRDV, is also his initials. It is the former name of 50PLUS, the Seniors Party.\n\nOn 31 October 2005, he presented his plans that mainly focused on changing the existing political culture in the Netherlands. To prove his point, he stated that an opinion poll on 16 December would decide whether he would actually continue his party or not, with a 41% cut-off point. Since only 31.4% thought De Vries would be a gain for Dutch politics, he decided to disband the party.\n"}
{"id": "1855103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855103", "title": "Popular Union (Peru)", "text": "Popular Union (Peru)\n\nPopular Union (in Spanish: \"Unión Popular\"), was a political party in Peru. Its president was Jorge Suárez Giulf.\n"}
{"id": "1855105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855105", "title": "Rolling Mill Mine", "text": "Rolling Mill Mine\n\nThe Rolling Mill Mine was a drift portal coal mine in operation in Johnstown, Cambria County, Pennsylvania, operating from approximately 1856 until 1931. It was originally owned by the Cambria Iron Company and was developed in the Westmont hillside across the Conemaugh River from the company's rolling mill. Its portal was near the confluence of the Stonycreek River and Little Conemaugh River. It supplied the bulk of the coal used in the iron and steel making taking place in the city, producing an average of 3,000 tons a day in 1902, and primarily employed recent immigrants from Central and Eastern Europe.\n\nOn Thursday, July 10, 1902, at approximately 11:00 a.m., a powerful explosion occurred in the Klondike section of the mine, and ultimately 112 miners, 84 of whom were immigrants from England, Poland and Slovakia, lost their lives. The explosion was attributed to what miners refer to as firedamp, a methane gas mixture. Killed immediately were those miners working in the Klondike section. Many other miners, as well as the vast majority of mine animals, were killed by an asphyxiating gas called afterdamp that spread through the mine as they fled to the Millcreek Portal, several miles away, the only other exit from the mine. In fact, only seven of the deaths in the disaster were caused by the explosion; the rest were caused by afterdamp. The mine was re-opened on Monday, July 14, but the disaster devastated the immigrant community in Johnstown and provoked calls for investigations and greater safety measures from public officials and even foreign governments. The Rolling Mill Mine Disaster still ranks as one of the most deadly mining accidents in the history of the United States.\n\nThe mine continued in operation until 1931, when the portals were sealed after it was worked out. At the end it was known as Mine #71 of the Bethlehem Mines Corporation, which in more recent times was known as BethEnergy.\n\nOne of the original entrances to the Rolling Mill Mine can still be seen on the James Wolfe Sculpture Trail, which runs down Yoder (Westmont) Hill near the incline and directly across from the Point Stadium. Coal was transported to the nearby Iron Works through this portal on a company-built trestle.\n"}
{"id": "1855106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855106", "title": "BM Ciudad Real", "text": "BM Ciudad Real\n\nBalonmano Ciudad Real was a Spanish handball team based in Ciudad Real, Castilla La Mancha. BM Ciudad Real plays in Liga ASOBAL. They won the 2009 EHF Champions League by beating THW Kiel in the final. 67:66 on aggregate.\n\nIn July 1983 is founded in the city of Ciudad Real a handball club named Asociación Deportiva Cultural Caserío Vigón. In 1993, other Ciudad Real-based team, Asociación Deportiva Cultural Ciudad Real purchase the rights of ADC Caserío Vigón and renames the team as \"Balonmano Ciudad Real\"\n\nBM Ciudad Real has been relocated to Madrid from 2011–12 season. Its new name is BM. At. de Madrid. Its name has been changed due to financial reasons.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1855107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855107", "title": "National Civic Union (Peru)", "text": "National Civic Union (Peru)\n\nNational Civic Union (in Spanish: \"Unión Cívica Nacional\"), was a political party in Peru. Its general secretary was Luis Felipe Villarán Freire.\n"}
{"id": "1855109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855109", "title": "Voronezhavia", "text": "Voronezhavia\n\nVoronezhavia was an airline based in Voronezh, Russia. Its flight operations had been taken over by Polet Airlines, Voronezhavia itself manages Voronezh Airport.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1855111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855111", "title": "Party for the Animals", "text": "Party for the Animals\n\nThe Party for the Animals (; PvdD) is a political party in the Netherlands. Among its main goals are animal rights and animal welfare, though it claims not to be a single-issue party. As of 2011, the party considered itself a testimonial party, one which does not seek to gain political power but to testify its beliefs and thereby influence other parties. Accordingly, the party campaigns and seeks votes in opposition to other parties, but without the intention of entering a governing coalition.\n\nSince 2019, the PvdD's political leader is Esther Ouwehand. With 3.2% of the vote at the general election, 2017, the PvdD held five of the 150 House of Representatives's seats. In the Senate it has three of the 75 seats, and in the European Parliament it has one of the 26 seats allocated to the Netherlands constituency.\n\nThe Party for the Animals was founded on 28 October 2002 by Marianne Thieme, among others.\n\nIn the Dutch general election of 2003 it gained 50,000 votes (0.5%), but not a seat in the House of Representatives.\n\nIn the 2004 European Parliament election the party gained 153,000 votes (3.2%), three times as many as in the 2003 general election. However, the number of votes was not enough to obtain a seat in the European Parliament.\n\nAt the 2006 parliamentary election it gained 179,988 votes (1.8%), enough for two seats in the Dutch parliament. In the run-up to that election the party was supported by several Dutch celebrities, such as writers Maarten 't Hart and Jan Wolkers.\n\nIn its first municipal council elections in 2010, the party gained one seat in each of the five places where it participated.\n\nIn its third parliamentary election, on June 9, 2010, the PvdD retained its two seats in the House of Representatives with 122,317 votes (1.3%).\n\nIn the 2012 general election the party got 182,162 votes, an increase of 45%, but with just under 2% of the popular vote this did not secure a third seat in the House of Representatives.\n\nIn the March 2017 general election the party gained three more seats, resulting in a total of 5.\n\nThe PvdD is the first political party in the world to gain parliamentary seats with an agenda focused primarily on animal rights.\n\nOne of the results that the PvdD claims to have reached during its first four-year parliamentary period is the fact that the government has declared that it will prioritize further reduction of national meat consumption.\n\nThe Party for Animals welcomed its 10,000th member in late 2009.\n\nCurrent members of the House of Representatives since the general election of 2017:\n\nIn July 2019 Femke Merel van Kooten announced that she had left the parliamentary faction of the party and that she was going to continue as an independent parliament member. This leaves the party with 4 representatieves.\n\nCurrent members of the Senate since the Senate election of 2019:\n\n\nCurrent members of the European Parliament since the European Parliamentary election of 2019:\n\n\nThe MEPs of the Party for the Animals are part of the European United Left–Nordic Green Left Group in the European parliament.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1855113", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855113", "title": "Must've Been High", "text": "Must've Been High\n\nMust've Been High is the fourth studio album and the first cowpunk album by the American rock and roll band Supersuckers. It was released on March 25, 1997, via Sub Pop.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1855115", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855115", "title": "Robert Goodwill", "text": "Robert Goodwill\n\nRobert Goodwill (born 31 December 1956) is a British Conservative Party politician and farmer. He has been the Member of Parliament (MP) for Scarborough and Whitby since 2005. He was previously a Member of the European Parliament (MEP) for Yorkshire and the Humber. He has had several ministerial positions, most recently as Agriculture, Fisheries & Food Minister at the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs.\n\nGoodwill is a member of the Cornerstone Group of Conservative MPs. He describes himself as a \"staunch Eurosceptic\" but supported Remain in the EU referendum.\n\nGoodwill was born in Terrington, North Riding of Yorkshire, and was privately educated at the Quaker Bootham School in York, and the University of Newcastle upon Tyne where he received a Bachelor of Science degree in agriculture in 1979. He has been the managing director of Mowthorpe (UK) Ltd since 1995 which offers environmentally friendly burials in the North Yorkshire countryside.\n\nGoodwill is a member of the Conservative Party, and contested his first constituency - Redcar - at the 1992 general election, where he finished second, 11,577 votes behind the sitting Labour MP Mo Mowlam. He unsuccessfully contested Cleveland and Richmond at the 1994 European election. He again attempted to enter the House of Commons at the 1997 general election when he was selected for the marginally held Conservative seat of North West Leicestershire following the deselection of the sitting MP David Ashby. Goodwill was defeated by Labour's David Taylor by 13,219 votes. In 1998, he contested the Yorkshire South European Parliament by-election, but was again defeated.\n\nHe was elected as a Member of the European Parliament at the 1999 European Parliament election for the Yorkshire and the Humber region, serving in Brussels and Strasbourg until the 2004 European Parliament election. He was Deputy Leader of the Conservative MEPs during his term, and also opposed the Conservative Party's membership of the European People's Party in the European Parliament.\n\nFrom 1999 to 2004, he was a member of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, and from 2001 to 2004 was a member of the Committee on Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities.\n\nIn September 2001, he participated in the European Parliament Observer Mission on the Presidential Election in Belarus. In 2003, Goodwill criticised the Council of the European Union's proposal to ban smoky bacon flavoured crisps, calling it \"over the top\" and \"disproportionate to the possible risks.\" During the 2004 European Parliament election campaign, \"The Guardian\" classed Goodwill as \"pro-war\" as a result of his supporting a motion in the European Parliament that said the Iraq War was inevitable and the result of Saddam Hussein's actions.\n\nIn the 2005 general election, Goodwill stood in the constituency of Scarborough and Whitby, winning the seat from the Labour incumbent Lawrie Quinn by 1,245 votes. He made his maiden speech on 6 June 2005.\n\nIn August 2005, Goodwill co-authored a letter to \"The Spectator\" with five other newly elected Conservative MPs, criticising the \"decadent\" nature of British society. In the 2005 Conservative Party leadership election, Goodwill supported Liam Fox's candidacy, declaring his support on 14 October 2005.\n\nAfter spending 18 months as a member of the Transport Select committee, he was appointed an Opposition Whip by David Cameron in 2006 and promoted to the post of Shadow Roads Minister in the Transport team in 2007. He was re-elected with an increased majority of 8,130 at the 2010 general election and appointed to the Government as a Whip with responsibility for Treasury and DEFRA business. Goodwill is secretary of the All Party Parliamentary Flag Group.\n\nIn the October 2013 ministerial reshuffle he became Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for Transport, replacing Norman Baker. Goodwill was given responsibility for aviation policy Goodwill had previously established himself as a strong opponent of a third runway at Heathrow, inviting Greenpeace members to plant a tree in his constituency as a gesture of \"solidarity\" with opponents of Heathrow expansion. Goodwill was re-appointed to his position as Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for Transport following the 2015 general election and the election of a Conservative majority government. He was the minister responsible for cycling, aviation, road safety, walking and High Speed 2. He was promoted to Minister of State at the Department of Transport in December 2015.\n\nIn January 2016, the Labour Party unsuccessfully proposed an amendment in Parliament that would have required private landlords to make their homes \"fit for human habitation\". According to Parliament's register of interests, Goodwill was one of 72 Conservative MPs who voted against the amendment who personally derived an income from renting out property. The Conservative Government had responded to the amendment that they believed homes should be fit for human habitation but did not want to pass the new law that would explicitly require it.\n\nIn the 2016 European Union membership referendum, in which the UK voted to 'Leave' the EU by 52% to 48%, Goodwill supported a 'Remain' vote despite stating on his own website he was a \"staunch Eurosceptic\".\n\nIn the Conservative Party leadership election following David Cameron's resignation as Prime Minister, Goodwill supported Liam Fox's candidacy, acting as his proposer (Fox was eliminated in the first round of voting). The eventual winner, Theresa May, moved Goodwill to the Home Office, where he assumed the role of Minister of State for Immigration. In the cabinet reshuffle following the 2017 general election, Goodwin was appointed as education minister (Goodwill was succeeded by Policing Minister Brandon Lewis).\n\nGoodwill was sacked from the post of Children's minister on 9 January 2018.\n\nGoodwill joined the Environmental Audit Select Committee on 22 January 2018, and the Northern Ireland Affairs Select Committee on 5 March 2018. He remained on these two committees until he, he rejoined the government in March 2019 when he became Minister of State for Agriculture, Fisheries & Food, replacing George Eustice who had resigned over Brexit.\n\nIn 2000 whilst working as a Conservative MEP, Goodwill highlighted the generous allowances given to MEPs which sparked controversy when he was quoted as saying \"I fly from Leeds/Bradford to Brussels and we get a set fee of around £500, but if I buy a cheaper ticket, economy class for about £160 and £250, I can pocket the difference and, as a capitalist, also as a British Conservative, I see it as a challenge to buy cheap tickets and make some profit on the system\".\n\nLabour called this proof that sleaze was \"alive and well\" within the Conservative party whilst the Conservative Party itself condemned his actions saying \"the party does not endorse the fiddling of expenses or the impression given that the system should be made available for personal profit\". Goodwill later donated £2,000 to local charities following feedback from constituents.\n\nIn 2013, following on from a review of capital gains made by MPs from their tax-payer funded second homes, the Independent Parliamentary Standards Authority ordered Goodwill to repay £4,963.39.\n\nHe married Maureen Short in November 1987 in North Yorkshire and they have two sons (born May 1989 and June 1991) and a daughter (born May 1994). He employs his wife as a part-time caseworker on a salary just under £30,000.\n\nHe was once the chairman of the cereals and livestock committee of the North Yorkshire National Farmers Union 1986–8. He takes a keen interest in steam engines and owns several; he once brought an engine back from the former Czechoslovakia to restore it. He stepped in to save the Scarborough Pleasure Ship, \"Coronia\", in January 2011 so that the historic, Dunkirk-veteran vessel can continue to be based in the harbour there. He speaks French, German and some Russian.\n\n"}
{"id": "1855123", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855123", "title": "Unguarded (Amy Grant album)", "text": "Unguarded (Amy Grant album)\n\nUnguarded is the sixth studio album, and ninth album by Christian music singer Amy Grant, released in 1985 on A&M Records. It is Grant's first album released by A&M.\n\nWhen \"Unguarded\" was released in 1985, Amy Grant was probably the most popular star in contemporary Christian music, recording songs with religious lyrics in the pop/rock style of the day. With this album, however, the religious content of the lyrics was scaled back as compared with her two previous regular studio albums, \"Age to Age\" and \"Straight Ahead\". The album track \"I Love You\" was Grant's first secular love song from her own pen. Despite this, the album's lead-off single, \"Find a Way\", was a number one hit on the Christian radio charts. Four other singles from the album were also Top Ten Christian radio hits.\n\nThe aggressive mainstream style of the songs on \"Unguarded\", combined with a heavy promotional campaign on the part of the album's distributor in secular outlets, A&M Records, helped three of its singles reach the mainstream charts. \"Find a Way\" was a Top Ten hit on the Adult Contemporary chart and peaked at No. 29 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100, while \"Everywhere I Go\" was a Top Thirty AC single and \"Wise Up\" was a minor charting single on the Hot 100. \"Unguarded\" would be certified gold in September 1985, and platinum in June 1986.\n\nIn 2007, \"Unguarded\" was reissued and digitally remastered by Grant's new record label, EMI/Sparrow Records. The remastered edition is labeled with a \"Digitally Remastered\" logo in the 'gutter' on the CD front.\n\nThis was the final album to be recorded at Caribou Ranch, which was owned by former Chicago producer/manager James William Guercio before the infamous March 1985 fire that destroyed the studio's control room.\n\n\nProduction\n\nTo further heighten Grant's visual appeal, A&M released \"Unguarded\" with four different covers, respectively labeled W, O, R, and D. When the album was issued on compact disc, the 'D' variation became the standard version for the cover.\n\nSingles - CCM Magazine (North America)\n\nGMA Dove Awards\nGrammy Awards\n"}
{"id": "1855124", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855124", "title": "R27 (South Africa)", "text": "R27 (South Africa)\n\nThe R27 is a provincial route in South Africa that consists of two disjoint segments. The first segment, also known as the West Coast Highway, connects Cape Town with Velddrif along the West Coast. The second runs from Vredendal via Vanrhynsdorp, Calvinia, Brandvlei and Kenhardt to Keimoes on the N14 near Upington. The connection between Velddrif and Vredendal has never been built, although it can be driven on various gravel roads.\n\nOriginally the R27 designation continued beyond Upington all the way to Pretoria, but this section became part of the N14 and various other roads.\n\nIn Cape Town the highway connects with FW de Klerk Boulevard (N1) near the Table Bay Harbor and then runs north along the coast for stretch that is known as Marine Drive. This stretch contains many industrial warehouses. Later the road moves further inland and the M14 becomes the main coastal road. Further north the road passes through West Coast National Park before reaching Velddrif.\n\nThe northern segment of the road is exceptionally desolate; it is a distance of from Calvinia to Keimoes, and the only towns along the way are Brandvlei and Kenhardt.\n"}
{"id": "1855125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855125", "title": "Progressive Integration Party", "text": "Progressive Integration Party\n\nThe Progressive Integration Party (\"Vooruitstrevende Integratie Partij\") is a political party in the Netherlands without parliamentary representation. It seeks its voters within the ethnic minorities in the country.\n"}
{"id": "1855128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855128", "title": "Professor of Medieval and Renaissance English (Cambridge)", "text": "Professor of Medieval and Renaissance English (Cambridge)\n\nThe Chair in Medieval and Renaissance English is a professorship in English at Cambridge University. It was created in 1954 for C. S. Lewis, and is unusual among professorships in this field in uniting 'medieval' and 'renaissance' categories and fields of study.\n\n"}
{"id": "1855129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855129", "title": "Revolutionary Democratic Action", "text": "Revolutionary Democratic Action\n\nRevolutionary Democratic Action (in Spanish: \"Acción Democrática Revolucionaria\"), was a political party in Peru, active in the 1950s. Its president was Carlos Guija.\n"}
{"id": "1855132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855132", "title": "Party New Limburg", "text": "Party New Limburg\n\nThe Party New Limburg (\"Partij Nieuw Limburg\", abbreviated as \"PNL\") is a provincial political party in the Dutch province of Limburg. It has no parliamentary representation, but it is linked to the Independent Senate Group.\n\n"}
{"id": "1855133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855133", "title": "Decentralist Party", "text": "Decentralist Party\n\nDecentralist Party (in Spanish: \"Partido Descentralista\") was a political party in Peru. Its president was Francisco Tamayo.\n"}
{"id": "1855139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855139", "title": "Tom Tryon", "text": "Tom Tryon\n\nThomas \"Tom\" Tryon (January 14, 1926September 4, 1991) was an American film and television actor as well as a novelist. He is best known for playing the title role in the film \"The Cardinal\" (1963), featured roles in the war films \"The Longest Day\" (1962) and \"In Harm's Way\" (1965) with John Wayne, and especially the Walt Disney television character \"Texas John Slaughter\" (1958–1961). He later turned to the writing of prose fiction and screenplays, and wrote several science fiction, horror and mystery novels.\n\nThomas Tryon was born on January 14, 1926, in Hartford, Connecticut, the son of Arthur Lane Tryon, a clothier and owner of Stackpole, Moore & Tryon (he is often erroneously identified as the son of silent screen actor Glenn Tryon). He served in the United States Navy in the Pacific from 1943–1946 during and after World War II. Upon return from the U.S. Navy, he attended and graduated from Yale University.\n\nTryon studied acting at NYC's Neighborhood Playhouse under the tutelage of Sanford Meisner.\n\nHe appeared in the 1952 original Broadway production of \"Wish You Were Here\", a long-running musical that starred Jack Cassidy, Patricia Marand and Sheila Bond.\n\nTryon appeared in \"The Way of the World\" (1955). He also guest starred in 1955 as Antoine De More in the two-part episode \"King of the Dakotas\" of NBC's western anthology series \"Frontier\".\n\nTryon was signed to a long term contract to Paramount. His film debut was in \"The Scarlet Hour\" (1956) at Paramount, directed by Michael Curtiz. It was a crime drama about a man whose married lover persuades him to commit a robbery; Tryon was second billed. He was top billed in a low budget war film at Allied Artists, \"Screaming Eagles\" (1956), then supported Charlton Heston and Anne Baxter in \"Three Violent People\" (1956) at Paramount. He was announced for, but did not end up appearing in, \"Short Cut to Hell\".\n\nTryon's work was mostly in TV though, appearing in \"Jane Wyman Presents The Fireside Theatre\", \"The 20th Century-Fox Hour\", \"Playhouse 90\" (an adaptation of \"Charley's Aunt\"), \"Zane Grey Theater\", \"Studio 57\", \"Matinee Theatre\", and \"Lux Video Theatre\". He had a support role in RKO's \"The Unholy Wife\" (1957) billed after Rod Steiger and Diana Dors. He had the lead in a low budget science fiction film at Paramount, \"I Married a Monster from Outer Space\" (1958). Tryon appeared in the lead in \"The Mark Hanford Story\" (February 26, 1958) on NBC's \"Wagon Train\". He portrayed an educated half-breed outraged at his father, Jack Hanford (played by Onslow Stevens), for having mistreated Mark's Cheyenne mother. Kathleen Crowley portrayed Ann Jamison, a young woman that the senior Hanford plans to marry after the self-banishment and then suicide of Mark's mother.\nHis other television roles included \"The Restless Gun\", \"General Electric Theater\", \"The Millionaire\", \"The Big Valley\", and \"The Joseph Cotten Show\".\n\nTryon played Texas John Slaughter for Disney in a series of TV movies for Disney which ran from 1958 to 1961. The role was based on actual historical figure John Slaughter. He was considered but eventually passed over for the role of Janet Leigh's lover, Sam Loomis, in the classic thriller, \"Psycho\" (1960); the role went to John Gavin.\n\nTryon starred in \"The Story of Ruth\" (1960) at 20th Century Fox. For that studio he appeared in \"Marines, Let's Go\" (1961). Disney borrowed him to star in a satire about the space age, \"Moon Pilot\" (1962). He was one of many names in \"The Longest Day\" (1962) at Fox. In 1962, Tryon was cast to play the role of Stephen Burkett (\"Adam\") in the unfinished Marilyn Monroe-Dean Martin comedy film, \"Something's Got to Give\", directed by George Cukor, but lost that role after Monroe was fired from the movie. He guest starred on \"Dr. Kildare\" and \"The Virginian\".\n\nTryon's greatest role was as an ambitious Catholic priest in \"The Cardinal\" (1963). The film was a box office hit and Tryon received a nomination for a Golden Globe Award for Best Actor – Motion Picture Drama. However, that honor barely compensated for the trauma and abuse he suffered at the hands of director Otto Preminger. At one point during filming, Preminger fired Tryon in front of his parents when they visited the set, then rehired him after being satisfied that Tryon had been sufficiently humiliated.\n\n\"Finally, I was in a position of being able to pick my roles,\" said Tryon in 1986. \"But I didn't like the movie. I didn't like me in the movie. To this day, I cannot look at that film. It's because of Preminger. He was a tyrant who ruled by terror. He tied me up in knots. He screamed at me. He called me names. He said I was lazy. He said I was a fool. He never cursed me. His insults were far more personal.\"\nTryon guest starred on \"Kraft Suspense Theatre\" then was reunited with Preminger in \"In Harm's Way\" (1965).\n\nHe had the lead in \"The Glory Guys\" (1965).\n\nHe was part of a live television performance of \"The Fall of the House of Usher\". He also co-wrote a song, \"\"I Wish I Was\",\" which appeared on an obscure record by Dick Kallman, star of the short-lived and now largely forgotten 1965 television sitcom, \"Hank\". Other television roles include episodes of \"The Big Valley\", \"Bob Hope Presents the Chrysler Theatre\" and the 1967 TV movie remake \"Winchester '73\". Tryon went to Australia to make \"Color Me Dead\" (1969).\n\nDisillusioned with acting, Tryon retired from the profession in 1969 and began writing horror and mystery novels. He was successful, overcoming skepticism about a classically handsome movie star suddenly turning novelist. He also moved into film financing, being executive producer on \"Johnny Got His Gun\" (1971). \n\nHis best-known work is \"The Other\" (1971), about a boy whose evil twin brother may or may not be responsible for a series of deaths in a small rural community in the 1930s. He adapted his novel into a film released the following year, which starred Diana Muldaur, Uta Hagen, and John Ritter. \"Harvest Home\" (1973), about the dark pagan rituals being practiced in a small New England town, was adapted as \"The Dark Secret of Harvest Home\" (1978), a television mini-series starring Bette Davis. \n\nAn extensive critical analysis of Tryon's horror novels can be found in S. T. Joshi's book \"The Modern Weird Tale\" (2001). His other books include \"Crowned Heads\", a collection of novellas inspired by the legends of Hollywood. Tryon sold the film rights to Universal to make four films based on the novellas. The first of these novellas, \"Fedora,\" about a reclusive former film actress whose relationship with her plastic surgeon is similar to that between a drug addict and her pusher, was later converted to a feature film directed by Billy Wilder.\n\nOther novellas in the collection were based on the murder of former silent screen star Ramón Novarro, and the quasi-Oedipal relationship between actor Clifton Webb and his mother. \"Lady\" (1974) concerns the friendship between an eight-year-old boy and a charming widow in 1930s New England and the secret he discovers about her. His novel \"The Night of the Moonbow\" (1989) tells the story of a boy driven to violent means by the constant harassment he receives at a boys summer camp. \"Night Magic,\" written in 1991, was posthumously published in 1995.\n\nIn 1955, Tryon married Ann L. Noyes, the daughter of stockbroker Joseph Leo Lilienthal and his wife, the former Edna Arnstein. She was the former wife of Thomas Ewing Noyes, with whom she had been a theatrical producer. The Tryons divorced in 1958, and Ann Tryon resumed her previous married name. She died in 1966.\n\nDuring the 1970s, he was in a romantic relationship with Clive Clerk, one of the original cast members of \"A Chorus Line\" and an interior designer who decorated Tryon's apartment on Central Park West in New York City, which was featured in \"Architectural Digest\". From 1973 to 1977, Tryon was in a relationship with Calvin Culver, also known as Casey Donovan, a gay porn star.\n\nTryon died of stomach cancer on September 4, 1991 at the age of 65 in Los Angeles, California.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1855140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855140", "title": "Hammond Circus Train Wreck", "text": "Hammond Circus Train Wreck\n\nThe Hammond Circus Train Wreck occurred on June 22, 1918, during the last months of World War I and was one of the worst train wrecks in US history. Eighty-six people were reported to have died and another 127 were injured when a locomotive engineer fell asleep and ran his train into the rear of another near Hammond, Indiana. The circus train held 400 performers and roustabouts of the Hagenbeck-Wallace circus. \n\nThe Hagenbeck-Wallace Circus used old wooden cars that were lit with oil lamps. The circus train had two train segments, and the segment that was loaded with animals had been dispatched earlier, leaving the train with all the performers and workers on the tracks. The cars were being moved to a spot near Gary, Indiana, so a mechanical problem could be addressed, and some of the cars had been left on the main line track.\n\nIn the early morning hours of June 22, 1918, engineer Alonzo Sargent was at the throttle of a Michigan Central (then a subsidiary of the New York Central Railroad) troop train pulled by MC/NYC class K80r 4-6-2 \"Pacific\" number 8485 with 20 empty Pullman cars. He was aware that his train was closely following a slower circus train. Sargent, an experienced man at the throttle, had slept little if at all in the preceding 24 hours. The effects of a lack of sleep, several heavy meals, some kidney pills, and the gentle rolling of his locomotive are thought to have caused him to fall asleep at the controls.\n\nAt approximately 4 a.m., he missed at least two automatic signals and warnings posted by a brakeman of the 26-car circus train, which had made an emergency stop to check a hot box on one of the flatcars. The second train plowed into the caboose and four rear wooden sleeping cars of the circus train at a rail crossing known as Ivanhoe Interlocking ( east of Downtown Hammond and the Illinois/Indiana border) at an estimated speed of . Upon impact, the circus trains lamps ignited the wooden cars and the fire quickly spread. \n\nTwo men were stationed at the Ivanhoe Signal Tower, about 100 feet from the accident, and phoned multiple people in an attempt to raise help for the victims. The first on the scene was the Mayor of Gary, Indiana, who brought the fire chief, and then phoned all the medical personnel he could. Triage for the victims was performed at the Michigan Central Railroad station in Hammond, Indiana; then they were sent to St. Margaret's Hospital.\n\nMost of the 86 who were killed in the train wreck perished in the first 35 seconds after the collision. Then, the wreckage caught on fire. The fire was so intense that many of the victims were believed to be some of the African-American porters on the train, until further investigations revealed that they had been severely burned.\n\nAmong the dead were Arthur Dierckx and Max Nietzborn of the Great Dierckx Brothers, a strongman act, and Jennie Ward Todd of The Flying Wards. There were also 127 injuries.\n\nFive days later, 53 of those killed were buried in Woodlawn Cemetery, at the intersection of Cermak Road and Des Plaines Avenue in Forest Park, Illinois, in a section set aside as Showmen's Rest, which had been purchased by the Showmen's League of America only a few months earlier. The section is surrounded by statues of elephants in a symbolic mourning posture.\n\nOnly five of those buried had been formally identified, so the graves of most of the casualties are marked \"Unknown Male\" or \"Unknown Female.\" One grave is marked \"Smiley\", one \"Baldy\", and another \"4 Horse Driver\". The more recent graves at the location belong to people who traveled with the circus and wanted to be buried there after they died.\n\nThe wreck is described in great detail in the report of the joint Interstate Commerce Commission and Indiana Public Service Commission following an investigation.\n\nSargent, who was under arrest, refused to testify at any of the hearings on advice of his counsel. In his report of the accident to the officials of the railroad company, he made the following statement:\n\nI was called shortly after 8 p.m. June 21, for deadhead equipment west, engine 8485, for 10.15 p.m., and left Kalamazoo, Michigan at 10.35 p.m. Had been up since 5 a.m., June 21, dead heading from my home in Jackson on Train No. 41, and had had little or no sleep during the day. Had had a couple of heavy meals before going out, realizing that I would not get anything more to eat until some time the next morning. Leaving Kalamazoo, followed freight train to Michigan City yard and stopped at signal near Center Street. Got proceed signal from some one on ground, pulled up to Michigan City, stopped at standpipe and took water. While following this freight train, we stopped first between Dowagiac and Pokagon on account signal at danger. Stopped again at Pokagon and Niles for same reason, this freight train being ahead.\n\n<br>Leaving Michigan City, had clear track to East Gary and there caught block of train ahead, reduced speed, but did not have to stop, as block cleared before I reached it. Reduced speed going through Gary to comply with rules, and saw no more signals at caution or danger until approaching curve east of Ivanhoe, where I found second signal east of wreck at caution. Was going about 25 miles per hour at this point, but did not reduce speed, as I expected that the next signal would probably clear before I got to it, or that I would see it, if at danger, in time to stop. The wind was blowing very hard into cab on my side and I closed the window, which made the inside of cab more comfortable. Before reaching the next signal I dozed on account of heat in cab and missed it. Not realizing what had happened to me until within 75 to 90 feet, I awoke suddenly and saw the tail or marker lights showing red on a train directly ahead of me. Not realizing that the rear end of this train was so close. I started to make a service application, but before completing it placed brake-valve handle into emergency position. We struck almost instantly after making the brake application. Don't know whether I closed the throttle or not, but think I did. Looked to see where the fireman was and saw he was running toward the gangway. Did not see a fusee, hear a torpedo, or see any other warning signal up to the time I saw the red tail lights. Wreck happened at about 4.05 a.m., June 22, and I stayed there for an hour or more assisting in getting people out of the wreckage. I have been in the service of the Michigan Central Railroad Co. for approximately 28 or 29 years, the last 16 of which I have been continuously employed as an engineer. I am in perfect physical condition, as well as mental condition, and have had no illness within 25 or 30 years requiring the service of a doctor. There was nothing defective about the air brakes or other mechanism of the engine or train that I was operating, nor was there any defective condition of any of the signals or track upon which I was operating to the best of my knowledge. The accident was due solely to the fact that I accidentally fell asleep, and I had no intent to injure any person, nor was same done with malice, but solely through an accident, as aforesaid.\n\nThe ICC report concluded, \"This accident was caused by Engine-man Sargent being asleep, and from this cause, failing to observe the stop indication of automatic signal 2581, and the warnings of the flagman of the circus train, and to be governed by them.\"\n\nThe report was also critical of the older wooden cars, whose oil lamps may have ignited the fire immediately after the collision.\n\nAlthough Sargent and his fireman, Gustave Klauss, were criminally charged in Lake County, Indiana, following a trial the jury found itself deadlocked, and a mistrial was declared. Prosecutors declined to re-try the case, and charges were dismissed on June 9, 1920.\n\nThe train wreck was on a Saturday, and its effects caused the show in Hammond and one in Monroe, Wisconsin, on June 24 to be canceled. However, the circus performed on June 25 in Beloit, Wisconsin, with other circuses providing some of the acts.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1855143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855143", "title": "Democrat Party (Peru) (Nicolini)", "text": "Democrat Party (Peru) (Nicolini)\n\nDemocratic Party (in Spanish: \"Partido Democráta\") was a political party in Peru. Its president was Juan Vicente Nicolini.\n"}
{"id": "1855144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855144", "title": "Socialist Alternative Politics", "text": "Socialist Alternative Politics\n\nThe Socialist Alternative Politics (Dutch: \"Socialistische Alternatieve Politiek,\" or SAP) is a Trotskyist political group in the Netherlands without parliamentary representation.\n\nThe SAP traces back its roots to the beginning of the Trotskyist movement in the Netherlands. In 1945 the Revolutionary Communist Party was founded as the Dutch member of the Fourth International. However the party was unsuccessful as an independent party and was disbanded in 1952. The former RCP members opted for an entryist tactic in the PvdA. They formed the Social Democratic Centre (SDC) as an internal pressure group to move the PvdA leftwards. However the SDC membership was expelled from the PvdA in 1959.\n\nThis severely weakened the Dutch section of the Fourth International. Their entryist strategy was expanded to include other leftwing parties and organizations, mainly the Socialist Workers Party (Dutch: \"Socialistische Werkerspartij)\", the Workers' Youth Central (youth movement of the NVV ) and later the Pacifist Socialist Party (PSP). Within the PSP it formed the Proletarian Left (PL) group. The PL and the PSP leadership clashed on the formation of a broad progressive coalition together with the PvdA and the progressive Political Party of Radicals (PPR). The PL was opposed of the participation of the PSP in this coalition, which eventually led to a split between PL and the PSP in 1972.\n\nThe PL decided to form a new openly Trotskyist \"revolutionary workers' vanguard party\". At this point the PL had about 300 members. The party was originally called Communist League-Proletarian Left (Dutch: \"Kommunistenbond- Proletarisch Links, KB-PL).\" In 1974 the party changed its name to International Communist League (Dutch: \"Internationale Kommunistenbond, IKB)\" and formally re-affiliated with the Fourth International. In response to the change in course of the Fourth International, which with the 'turn to industry' wanted to focus more on the organizing of industrial workers the IKB again changed its name to the Socialist Workers Party (Dutch: \"Socialistische Arbeiderspartij\") in 1983.\n\nIn the late 1980s the entire Dutch non-social democratic left was in decline. This caused a major push for left unity, which eventually led to the Communist Party of the Netherlands (CPN), the PSP, the PPR and the non-parliamentary Evangelical People's Party (EVP) to at first form a common election list and later merged to form a new political party: GreenLeft. The SAP was excluded from these unity talks.\n\nIn the early 2000s the SAP discussed multiple strategies to regain relevance. Attempts to merge with the International Socialists (IS) did not succeed and many member left the organization to join other leftwing parties. Membership numbers dwindled to about 40. It was decided that the group could no longer consider itself a 'party' and therefore was renamed Socialist Alternative Politics (Dutch: \"Socialistische Alternatieve Politiek).\" The paper version of their magazine \"Grenzeloos\" (Borderless) was canceled in 2013.\n\nThe SAP published a newspaper \"Klassenstrijd\" which in 1992 was renamed to \"Grenzeloos\". The SAP also for a time had an affiliated youth wing called \"Rebel.\" Rebel fizzled out in the late 1990s.\n\nMembers of the SAP are active in the trade union Federatie Nederlandse Vakbeweging (FNV) and contribute to the International Institute for Research and Education (IIRE) which is based in Amsterdam. Many of its members are also active within the Socialist Party (SP), although not in an entryist fashion. For instance Leo de Kleijn was a SAP member who was a city council member for the SP in Rotterdam.\n\nThe IKB/SAP occasionally participated in elections, although it never managed to win seats on its own. At the local level it often sought coalitions with other leftwing groups, for instance PSP, SP and The Greens, through which SAP members were elected to city council in among others Deventer and Amsterdam. The SAP as an organization no longer participates in elections, although individual member still run as candidates for other parties.\n\n"}
{"id": "1855146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855146", "title": "Christian Social Party (Peru)", "text": "Christian Social Party (Peru)\n\nChristian Social Party (in Spanish: \"Partido Social Cristiano\") was a political party in Peru. Its president was Baltazar Caravedo.\n\n"}
{"id": "1855148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855148", "title": "The Sacrilicious Sounds of The Supersuckers", "text": "The Sacrilicious Sounds of The Supersuckers\n\nThe Sacrilicious Sounds of the Supersuckers is the third studio album by the American rock and roll band Supersuckers. It was released on August 8, 1995, on Sub Pop.\n\nThe word \"sacrilicious\" is a portmanteau of \"sacrilegious\" and \"delicious\". It was popularized in \"Homer Loves Flanders,\" a 1994 episode of the television series \"The Simpsons\".\n\n\nPaul Leary - Production\n\n"}
{"id": "1855149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855149", "title": "USS Monticello", "text": "USS Monticello\n\nUSS \"Monticello\" may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1855153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855153", "title": "Peruvian Democratic Union", "text": "Peruvian Democratic Union\n\nPeruvian Democratic Union (in Spanish: \"Unión Democrática Peruana\") was a political party in Peru. It was founded in 1942 by Julio Marcial Rossi Corsi with the name \"Frente de la Peruanidad en Defensa de la democracia\".\n"}
{"id": "1855157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855157", "title": "The Gateway (student magazine)", "text": "The Gateway (student magazine)\n\n\"The Gateway\" is the student paper at the University of Alberta, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada. It is published once a month in print during the academic year (September-April) and on a regular basis online throughout the calendar year by the Gateway Student Journalism Society (GSJS), a student-run, autonomous, apolitical not-for-profit organization, operated in accordance with the Societies Act of Alberta.\n\n\"The Gateway\" is one of the oldest student newspapers in Canada, founded in 1910. It's notable alumni include Don Iveson the Mayor of Edmonton, Joe Clark the former Prime Minister of Canada, Beverley McLachlin the former Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of Canada, clinical psychologist Jordan Peterson, and countless current journalists across Canada and the world.\n\nThe magazine was originally formatted as a newspaper, but shifted to a magazine format in January 2016 (see \"Ownership and Operations\").\n\nThe newspaper was founded in North Garneau at the home of Libby Lloyd on October 26, 1910. A group of students had gathered to discuss the creation of a student newspaper. They came up with the name \"The Gateway\" and selected A.E. Ottewell as its first editor-in-chief. The first issue was published on November 21, 1910.\n\nAccording to the newspaper's first editorial, the name \"Gateway\" was chosen because \"there is something unique about our position in this institution, the university farthest north in America and farthest West in Canada, standing at the portal of a great undeveloped and practically unknown region, rich in potentialities of future greatness.\"\n\nIn 1938, The \"Gateway\" became a founding member of Canadian University Press (CUP), a non-profit news wire service owned by post-secondary student newspapers across Canada. The \"Gateway\" hosted CUP national conferences in January 1979, January 2005, and January 2010.\n\nFrom its first published issue in 1910 until 2002, the \"Gateway\" was run as a department of the University of Alberta Students' Union. In 2002, the paper ran a successful referendum campaign for its autonomy and became an independent entity run by the Gateway Student Journalism Society (GSJS). In the period when the union was responsible for the paper, the University of Alberta had no editorial control over \"The Gateway\", and by law the union was responsible for the production; the Universities Act of the Province of Alberta dictated that the student union was a corporate body separate from the university.\n\nWhile most of the day-to-day operations did not change with autonomy, a board of directors (BOD) took over the major decision-making powers for the paper from a Students' Union committee and the Vice-President (Student Life).\n\nThe paper is funded by a combination of advertising revenue and a student levy approved at the time of the autonomy campaign. The \"Gateway\" features sections devoted to news, opinion, sports, arts and entertainment, comics and features.\n\n\"The Gateway\" has been published primarily as a twice-weekly publication, appearing on campus on most Tuesdays and Thursdays during the fall and winter terms. During the Spring and Summer sessions, the \"Gateway\" publishes a reduced schedule with a reduced circulation.\n\nEach December, the \"Getaway\" is published (notice the different spelling), which features satirical articles and non sequiturs. The \"Getaway\" is a no-holds-barred publication, each issue containing considerable profanity and sexual content. Additionally, a joke issue spoofing a different newspaper or magazine is run every year at the end of the winter term.\n\nThe \"Gateway\" launched a new website, \"The Gateway Online\", on 27 February 2007.\n\nOn February 17, 2011, the GSJS Board of Governors voted to change The \"Gateway\" to weekly publishing for the 2011/2012 publication year, moving the paper down from twice-weekly publishing for the first time since the 1930s.\n\nIn January 2016, in order to combat the declining relevance of newsprint media, The GSJS Board of Directors voted to shift to a monthly publishing schedule that featured eight magazines per publishing year and an increased focus on digital publishing and social media presence. Cam Lewis, the Editor-in-Chief who orchestrated the organization's shift, said the goal was to lead the way in a change in climate that everybody was going to have to face eventually, citing a decline in ad revenue and an increase in the use of digital mediums as reasons for the change. \n\nJosh Greshner, the 2016-17 Editor-in-Chief produced the first publication year of The Gateway magazine.\n\nThe final newspaper edition of \"The Gateway\" was released on April 5, 2016. The issue's cover featured a Space Moose cartoon drawn by Adam Thrasher and a four-page feature with testimonials from multiple Gateway alumni about their memories of the newspaper.\n\nThe Gateway Student Journalism Society is the body that oversees the budget and overall operation of the \"Gateway\". Its board of directors consists of eleven voting members (the \"Editor-in-Chief\" of the newspaper, an editors' representative, two volunteer representatives, a representative of Students' Council, the SU Vice-President (Operations and Finance), two \"continuity\" representatives, a community representative, and two students-at-large). A Secretary, Treasurer, and Chair of the BOD are selected from the voting members.\n\nIn early 2004, \"Gateway\" alumnus Steve Lillebuen approached the University of Alberta to officially recognize a Gateway Alumni Association (GAA), and by March of that year the GAA became an official chapter of the University of Alberta Alumni Association.\n\nSince then, the GAA has tracked down 800 lost alumni, hosted the \"Gateway\"s 95th and 100th anniversary dinners, and completed an online digital archive of the newspaper in partnership with the University of Alberta library.\n\nAll former paid staff of the newspaper are members of the Association. Any volunteer who contributed five or more submissions—writing, photographs, graphics, comics, administrative or editorial assistance and design—that appeared in the \"Gateway\" is also a member. It is estimated that over 3000 people have volunteered at one point in the \"Gateway\"s publishing history.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1855159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855159", "title": "Chris Sabin", "text": "Chris Sabin\n\nJoshua Harter (born February 4, 1982), better known by his ring name Chris Sabin, is an American professional wrestler. He is best known for his work in Total Nonstop Action Wrestling (TNA) and Ring of Honor (ROH).\n\nAfter being trained by Scott D'Amore, Sabin debuted in 2000 for Border City Wrestling (BCW), and quickly began competing for numerous other independent promotions. In 2003, Sabin joined TNA, and quickly won the TNA X Division Championship, which he later unified with the WWA International Cruiserweight Championship. In 2004, he also wrestled for Ring of Honor. In 2005, Sabin wrestled in the UK at International Showdown for The Wrestling Channel's first anniversary at a sold out Coventry Skydome. Throughout the next few years, Sabin competed mainly in TNA's X Division, until forming The Motor City Machine Guns with Alex Shelley in mid-2007.\n\nSabin won 11 total championships while with TNA. He is a one-time TNA World Heavyweight Champion, a record eight-time X Division Champion, a one-time World Tag Team Champion with Alex Shelley, and (during a talent exchange with New Japan Pro Wrestling) a one-time IWGP Junior Heavyweight Tag Team Champion, also with Shelley. After leaving TNA, Sabin and Shelley became one-time Ring of Honor World Tag Team Champions. Sabin has also won numerous titles on the independent circuit.\n\nHarter began training as a wrestler in Michigan at the NWA Great Lakes Pro Wrestling School. After the school began experiencing difficulties, he travelled to Windsor, Ontario and completed his training under Scott D'Amore and \"Amazing\" N8 Mattson at the Can-Am Wrestling School. He debuted in 2000 after four months training as \"Chris Sabin\", and began working for D'Amore's Border City Wrestling promotion and for independent promotions in Michigan.\n\nSabin made his debut for Ring of Honor on June 14, 2003, in a four-way match, won by Homicide. He would wrestle for the company sporadically before leaving in February 2004. He would return on November 4, 2005, to unsuccessfully challenge Bryan Danielson for the ROH World Championship. He returned to ROH along with tag team partner Alex Shelley on March 30, 2007, following the Briscoe Brothers winning the ROH World Tag Team Championship. The two challenged Jay Briscoe for a shot at the title on April 28 in Chicago, then attacked him after he accepted. The two would ultimately lose the match and leave the company. They also worked for Pro Wrestling Guerrilla, and challenged for the PWG World Tag Team Championship, although they never won.\n\nIn April 2008 Sabin and Shelley returned to ROH, losing to The Age of the Fall (Jimmy Jacobs and Tyler Black) and defeating the Briscoe Brothers (Jay and Mark) on the 18 and 19 respectively. In August 2008 Sabin and Shelley once again returned to ROH, wrestling Austin Aries and Bryan Danielson to a 25-minute time limit draw and losing to Kevin Steen and El Generico on the 1st and 2nd respectively. They were scheduled to return to ROH on October 24 and 25, but were pulled from the events by TNA and replaced by The Latin American Xchange.\n\nOn February 13, 2010, Ring of Honor announced at their 8th Anniversary Show that the Motor City Machine Guns would return to the company on May 8 in New York City. On May 8 the Motor City Machine Guns were defeated by the ROH World Tag Team Champions The Kings of Wrestling (Chris Hero and Claudio Castagnoli) via disqualification, when the Briscoe Brothers interfered in the match.\n\nOn August 25, 2006, at Korauken Hall's ZERO-1 MAX show, Sabin and Alex Shelley became ZERO-1 MAX International Lightweight Tag Team Champions, when they defeated former champions, Ikuto Hidaka and Minoru Fujita. They held the titles for nearly two years, before dropping them to Minoru Fujita, and his new tag team partner, Takuya Sugawara, on April 6, 2008.\n\nOn January 4, 2009, Sabin and Shelley defeated No Limit (Tetsuya Naito and Yujiro) at New Japan Pro Wrestling's Wrestle Kingdom III to win the IWGP Junior Heavyweight Tag Team Championship. After three successful title defenses, two of which took place in TNA, Sabin and Shelley lost the IWGP Junior Heavyweight Tag Team Titles to Apollo 55 (Prince Devitt and Ryusuke Taguchi) on July 5, 2009, at New Japan Pro Wrestling's \"Circuit 2009 New Japan Soul\". On November 8, 2010, New Japan Pro Wrestling announced that the Motor City Machine Guns would be returning to the promotion the following month, competing at events on December 11 and 12. On December 11 the Motor City Machine Guns were defeated by No Limit in their New Japan return match. The following day they defeated Apollo 55 in the fourth match between the two teams.\n\nOn May 7, marked Sabin's return to NJPW as they announced him as a participant in the 2018 Best of the Super Juniors tournament.\n\nSabin joined Total Nonstop Action Wrestling in April 2003 and won the TNA X Division Championship just a month later on May 14 by defeating champion Amazing Red and Jerry Lynn in a three-way dance, after an assist from Triple X. After the match Sabin turned heel and joined Triple X in Sports Entertainment Xtreme. His reign ended after three months when he lost to Michael Shane in the first ever Ultimate X match on August 20.\n\nOn September 3, 2003, Sabin, now a face, won the 2003 Super X Cup, thus becoming the number one contender to the X Division Championship. He regained the X Division Championship on January 7, 2004, defeating Shane, Christopher Daniels and Low Ki in the second Ultimate X match. He was stripped of the title on March 31, 2004, after a knee injury left him unable to defend it.\n\nAfter returning from injury, Sabin took part in the World X Cup in May 2004, forming Team TNA with Jerry Lynn, Christopher Daniels and Elix Skipper. On May 26, Team USA defeated Team Mexico, Team Canada and Team Japan in a two-hour pay-per-view event which saw the teams fight one another in a variety of matches. The finals saw Sabin wrestle the Canadian Petey Williams and the Mexican Héctor Garza in an Ultimate X match, which Sabin won when he retrieved a large red \"X\" which had been suspended above the ring on steel cables.\n\nFor the remainder of 2004, Sabin contended for the X Division Championship. He won another Ultimate X match on November 9 to win a title shot at Petey Williams. At Turning Point 2004 on December 5, however, Williams was able to secure a victory with the help of a pair of brass knuckles. Sabin got another shot at the title at Final Resolution on January 16, 2005, in an Ultimate X match with Williams and A.J. Styles, but the match and title were won by Styles.\n\nThroughout 2005, Sabin feuded with Michael Shane, by now wrestling as Matt Bentley. In September 2005 he began a feud with Shocker that was killed when Shocker was unable to return from Mexico for their scheduled match at Unbreakable on September 11, instead Sabin faced Petey Williams and won after hitting the Cradle Shock\nIn 2006, Sabin mostly teamed up with Sonjay Dutt, to great effect, beating Team Canada in a number one contenders tag team tournament on \"TNA Impact!\". At the Against All Odds pay-per-view event Sabin and Dutt were beaten by Chris Harris and James Storm (America's Most Wanted) in a bout for the NWA World Tag Team Championships. On March 11, Chris Sabin defeated Alex Shelley and Sonjay Dutt in a 3-way match to represent both the US in the \"International X Division Showcase\" at Destination X 2006 as well as joining Jay Lethal on Team TNA in the upcoming World X Cup Tournament. Later that month, Sabin was hospitalized with a severe concussion after taking four blows to the head during a show for the Northeast Wrestling (NEW) promotion on March 25 in Bristol, Connecticut. He was released after undergoing a CAT scan. Sabin acted as the captain of Team USA at World X Cup 2006, defeating Puma of Team Mexico, earning 3 points, and on May 18, defeating Petey Williams in a sudden death tiebreaker singles match, winning the World X Cup for Team USA.\n\nOn the June 1, 2006 episode of \"TNA Impact!\", Sabin rushed to the ring to clear out Alex Shelley and Kevin Nash, who were attacking Jay Lethal in another of Nash's X Division beatdowns. Nash would avoid a physical confrontation with Sabin, only to be challenged to a match by Sabin at Slammiversary 2006 which Nash was able to win.\n\nSabin later became the number one contender for the TNA X Division Championship by defeating Alex Shelley at Hard Justice 2006. Sabin would enter into an angle with fellow X-Division wrestlers to promote the movie by imitating stunts performed on the film to display the lighter side of the X-Division, something then champion Senshi disapproved of. Since then, Sabin would attempt to take Senshi's title on several occasions. On October 22, 2006, Sabin defeated Senshi after using an inside cradle to become a 3 time X Division Champion at Bound for Glory 2006. On the November 2, 2006 episode of \"TNA Impact!\", he lost the title to A.J. Styles in the \"Fight for the Right\" tournament.\n\nPrior to the match, Sabin showed signs of turning heel when he expressed his disdain for X-Division pioneer, and face, Jerry Lynn for doubting his focus in an interview with Christy Hemme. Sabin completed his heel turn two weeks later when he refused to help fellow X-Division star Sonjay Dutt from an assault from Samoa Joe. Sabin went on to challenge Christopher Daniels at Genesis for the X Division Championship but failed. After winning a three-way match against former allies Sonjay Dutt and Jay Lethal for a number one contender's match, he once again challenged Daniels at Turning Point but lost.\n\nAt Final Resolution 2007, Sabin won the X Division Championship from then champion Christopher Daniels in a three-way match which also involved Jerry Lynn. Sabin went on to feud with Lynn over the title; defeating him at Against All Odds 2007 by using the ring ropes for leverage. At Destination X, Sabin defeated Lynn in a two out of three falls match to retain the X Division Championship. After the match, however, a masked man, who was later revealed to be Christopher Daniels, attacked both Sabin and Lynn. At Lockdown Sabin retained his title against Alex Shelley, Sonjay Dutt, Jay Lethal, and Shark Boy in a Six Sides of Steel Xscape match. At Sacrifice he retained his title against Sonjay Dutt, and Jay Lethal, by pinning Dutt. Sabin lost his title at Slammiversary, however, to Lethal. Sabin received a rematch on \"Impact!\" against Lethal and Samoa Joe, but Sabin was pinned after Joe hit a Muscle Buster.\n\nIn the summer of 2007, Sabin formed a tag team with Alex Shelley, known as the Motor City Machine Guns. The two had been teaming in several independent promotions prior to their formation as a team in TNA. Sabin and Shelley started a feud with Team 3D, turning face, which stemmed from Team 3D constantly attacking the X Division every week. They defeated Team 3D at Genesis. Motor City Machine Guns later competed in TNA's World X Cup as a part of Team USA/TNA and went undefeated, winning two tag team matches and the 12 man elimination tag team match.\n\nSabin and Shelley turned heel when, after a match with B.G. James and Eric Young, Sabin slapped James in the face. Sabin and Shelley lost a TNA World Tag Team Championship match at Turning Point to Beer Money, Inc.\n\nSabin and Shelley turned face then joined The Frontline. In December 2008, Sabin qualified for the finals in the X Division title tournament after defeating Sonjay Dutt and Kiyoshi. On January 11, 2009, at Genesis, Sabin was defeated by his tag team partner Alex Shelley for the X Division title. Sabin and Shelley then floated began competing in minor matches. The two eventually began popping up in the crowd with various signs, such as \"Yes, we still work here.\" They would then be given their own broadcast table and would occasionally do commentary for various matches. On the October 22 episode of \"Impact!\", Sabin and Shelley won an Ultimate X match against Lethal Consequences to become the number one contenders for the TNA World Tag Team Championship. On the October 29 episode of \"Impact!\", Sabin suffered a concussion during a match with Team 3D after landing on his head. At Turning Point, The British Invasion (Doug Williams and Brutus Magnus) defeated Sabin and Shelley and Beer Money, Inc. in a three-way match to retain the TNA Tag Team titles. The following month at Final Resolution, British Invasion defeated Sabin and Shelley to once again retain their titles.\n\nAt Destination X, Sabin and Shelley defeated Generation Me (Jeremy Buck and Max Buck) in an Ultimate X match to earn another shot at the TNA World Tag Team Championship. Sabin and Shelley received their title shot on the April 12 episode of \"Impact!\", but were defeated by World Tag Team Champion Matt Morgan and Amazing Red, who replaced the injured Hernandez in the match. The following month at Sacrifice, the Motor City Machine Guns defeated Beer Money, Inc. and Team 3D in a three-way match to earn another shot at the Tag Team Championship. On July 11 at Victory Road, the Motor City Machine Guns defeated Beer Money, Inc. to win the vacant TNA World Tag Team Championship for the first time.\n\nAfter Victory Road, the Motor City Machine Guns entered a Best of Five Series with Beer Money, Inc. for the TNA World Tag Team Championship. Beer Money won the first two matches, a ladder match and a Street Fight, after knocking out Sabin and Shelley with beer bottles. However, Sabin and Shelley came back to win the two following matches, a steel cage match and an Ultimate X match, to even the score to 2–2 and set up a deciding match for the August 12 episode of \"Impact!\". On the August 12 episode of \"Impact!\" the Motor City Machine Guns defeated Beer Money, Inc. in a Two Out of Three Falls match to win the Best of Five Series and retain the TNA World Tag Team Championship.\n\nAt both No Surrender and Bound for Glory, the Motor City Machine Guns retained their titles in matches against Generation Me, who turned heel at the former event. Also at Bound for Glory, Team 3D announced their retirement from professional wrestling, but requested one final match against the Motor City Machine Guns, whom they called the best tag team in wrestling. The Motor City Machine Guns accepted and the match took place on November 7, 2010, at Turning Point, where they defeated Team 3D to retain the TNA World Tag Team Championship. Sabin also became one of only 2 people to kick out of the Dudley's \"3D \"finisher, along with Masato Tanaka.\n\nAfter Jeremy Buck pinned Sabin in an eight-person tag team match, where the Motor City Machine Guns teamed with Jay Lethal and Velvet Sky and Generation Me with Robbie E and Cookie, on the November 18 episode of \"Impact!\", the Motor City Machine Guns challenged Generation Me to an Empty Arena match. The match took place later that same night on \"Reaction\" with the Motor City Machine Guns coming out victorious. On December 5 at Final Resolution the Motor City Machine Guns defeated Generation Me in a Full Metal Mayhem match to retain the World Tag Team Championship. The following month at Genesis, Sabin and Shelley lost the World Tag Team Championship to Beer Money, Inc., after Robert Roode rolled up Sabin following a miscommunication between the Machine Guns. Sabin and Shelley received their rematch for the title on the following episode of \"Impact!\", but lost again due to a miscommunication. For the next three months, the Motor City Machine Guns went inactive, as Shelley suffered a collarbone injury and Sabin returned to the X Division.\n\nOn the April 28 episode of \"Impact!\", Shelley made his return, saving Sabin from a beatdown at the hands of Mexican America (Anarquia and Hernandez). Ironically, the same day Shelley made his return, Sabin suffered a knee injury in his match with Anarquia. Sabin underwent surgery on his right knee in early May. On the June 2 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", Shelley announced that Sabin had torn his ACL and MCL and would be out for the rest of 2011.\n\nOn March 18, 2012, at Victory Road, TNA started promoting the returns of Sabin and the Motor City Machine Guns. On March 27, TNA president Dixie Carter announced that Sabin had been cleared to return to the ring. Sabin returned on the April 5 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", where he and Shelley defeated Mexican America in a tag team match, before announcing their intention of going for the TNA World Tag Team Championship, held by Magnus and Samoa Joe. On April 15 at Lockdown, The Motor City Machine Guns unsuccessfully challenged Magnus and Joe for the TNA World Tag Team Championship in a steel cage match. On May 21, it was reported that Shelley had left TNA, disbanding the Motor City Machine Guns.\n\nSabin made his first appearance since Shelley's departure from TNA on the live May 31 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", unsuccessfully challenging Austin Aries for the X Division Championship. On the June 14 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", Sabin unsuccessfully challenged Aries for the X Division Championship in an Ultimate X match, which also included Zema Ion, during which Sabin appeared to injure his left knee. The following day, it was announced that Sabin had torn his left ACL during the match. On the July 5 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", Sabin returned to talk about his injury, but was interrupted and eventually attacked by TNA World Heavyweight Champion Bobby Roode. Sabin underwent surgery on his ACL the following day.\n\nSabin returned to \"Impact Wrestling\" on May 2, 2013, defeating Sonjay Dutt and Zema Ion in a number one contender's match for the X Division Championship. Sabin received his title shot on the May 16 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", but was defeated by defending champion Kenny King in a three-way match, also involving Petey Williams. On June 2 at Slammiversary XI, Sabin defeated King and Suicide in an Ultimate X match to win his fifth X Division Championship. Afterwards, Hulk Hogan came out and announced to Sabin that sometime during the summer he may trade in the X Division title for a World Heavyweight Championship match. On the June 27 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", he lost the X Division title to an impostor Suicide (who was later revealed to be Austin Aries) in a three-way match, which also included Kenny King, but defeated Aries and the newly christened Manik the following week, to regain the title for a record-tying sixth time. On the July 11 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", Sabin vacated the title in exchange for a shot at the TNA World Heavyweight Championship. The following week, Sabin defeated Bully Ray on the Destination X episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", to win the World Heavyweight Championship, making him TNA's sixth Triple Crown Champion in the process. However, Sabin thought it was too soon to give him the title. On August 15 at \"Hardcore Justice\", Sabin lost the World Heavyweight Championship back to Ray in his first title defense, contested inside a steel cage, following interference from Mr. Anderson and Tito Ortiz.\n\nOn the September 19 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", Sabin turned heel after he attacked X Division Champion Manik after a match before being chased off by Jeff Hardy. The following week, Sabin unsuccessfully challenged Manik for his title. On October 20 at Bound for Glory, Sabin defeated Austin Aries, Jeff Hardy, Manik, and Samoa Joe in an Ultimate X Match to win the X Division Championship for a record-breaking seventh time.\n\nSabin lost the X Division title to Austin Aries at the November 23, 2013 \"Impact Wrestling\" tapings (airing December 12), but then won it back in a rematch at the December 5, 2013 tapings (airing January 2, 2014) for his record-breaking eighth reign. However, he lost the title against Aries on TNA Impact Wrestling:Genesis, on January 16, 2014, after Velvet Sky turned on him. During the TNA Maximun Impact tour, Sabin attacked Sky, aligned himself with Alpha Female. Then, he disappeared from TV until May 9, 2014, when his departure from the promotion was confirmed.\n\nSabin would return to Ring of Honor in early 2015 during some of their TV tapings. On the April 25 episode of Ring of Honor television, Sabin was revealed to be a member of the Knights of the Rising Dawn (KRD) a group that have been interfering in championship matches in Ring of Honor in early 2015. He helped The Addiction (Christopher Daniels and Frankie Kazarian) defeat reDRagon to become the new ROH World Tag Team Champions. On the May 9 episode of Ring of Honor, Sabin made his in-ring return to ROH in a match against Kyle O'Reilly. Sabin would win the match with help from both Daniels and Kazarian. On February 26, 2016, at the 14th Anniversary Show, Sabin turned on Daniels and Kazarian, re-forming the Motor City Machine Guns with Alex Shelley and turning face in the process. At the following day's \"Ring of Honor Wrestling\" tapings, Sabin and Shelley defeated Daniels and Kazarian in their return match. Sabin and Shelley then formed a stable named \"Search and Destroy\" with Jay White, Jonathan Gresham and Lio Rush.\n\nOn September 22, 2017, at Death Before Dishonor XV, The Motor City Machine Guns defeated The Young Bucks to win the ROH World Tag Team Championship for the first time. They would retain the titles until March 9, 2018, when they lost them against The Briscoe Brothers at ROH 16th Anniversary Show. In June, Shelley suffered an injury. On July 20, 2018, Shelley announced he would be leaving the promotion and retired from active competition, disbanding the tag team. On August, Sabin defeated Silas Young to become the number one contender for the ROH World Television Championship. At Death Before Dishonor XVI, Sabin unsuccessfully challenged Punishment Martinez for the championship. During the January 12, 2019 ROH television tapings Sabin suffered a fully torn ACL during a six-man tag. He will be out of action eight to twelve months due to the injury. He left the promotion in March 2019.\n\nOn July 31, 2016, NJPW announced that the Motor City Machine Guns would be returning to the promotion on August 21. In their return match, The Motor City Machine Guns unsuccessfully challenged The Young Bucks for the IWGP Junior Heavyweight Tag Team Championship.\n\nIn May 2018, it was announced that Sabin will participate in the 2018 Best Of The Super Junior tournament, he finalized the tournament with 3 wins and four losses, failing to advance to the finals.\nOn October 9, it was announced that Chris Sabin will participate in the Super Junior Tag League 2018 teaming with Kushida. The team ended with three wins and four losses, failing to advance to the finals.\n\nChris Sabin has appeared in the video games \"TNA IMPACT!\", \"\" and \"TNA Wrestling Impact!\".\n\nHarter was inspired by Hulk Hogan and Bret Hart. Harter used the money he earned from working at Subway to pay to attend a wrestling school, but also took classes at a community college.\n\nHarter plays bass in a band called The High Crusade, which also includes TNA wrestler Petey Williams and former TNA wrestler Alex Shelley, and their friends Adam Tatro and Chris Plumb. The band released their debut album, \"It's Not What You Think\", on September 7, 2010.\n\nIn 2008, Sabin, along with Alex Shelley, appeared in an episode of MTV MADE, teaching a school boy the basics of professional wrestling.\n\nAn avid gamer, Sabin's ring name is derived from the character Sabin Rene Figaro from the video game \"Final Fantasy VI\" (originally released in America as \"Final Fantasy III\").\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1855162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855162", "title": "Thomas Tryon", "text": "Thomas Tryon\n\nThomas Tryon (6 September 1634 – 21 August 1703) was an English sugar merchant, author of popular self-help books, and early advocate of vegetarianism.\nBorn in 1634 in Bibury near Cirencester, Gloucestershire, England, he had to work spinning wool as a child and received no education. As a teenager, he worked as a shepherd till the age of eighteen and managed to learn reading and writing in his spare time. In 1652 he moved to London without telling his parents and apprenticed with a hatter. He became an Anabaptist in 1654 under the influence of his master. He liked the ascetic lifestyle of that congregation, but soon he found his own independent spiritual way after reading the writings of Jakob Böhme. In 1657 he heard an inner voice, which he named the \"Voice of Wisdom\", encouraging him to become a vegetarian and to live on a frugal diet. He married in 1661 but failed to convert his wife to his lifestyle.\n\nHe traveled to Barbados hoping to succeed in his hat trade and to profit from greater religious tolerance there, but was shocked by the cruelty of slavery in the plantations. In 1669 he returned to London and settled in Hackney. In 1682 his inner voice told him to engage in writing and to publish books in order to propagate temperance and nonviolence. So in the last two decades of his life he published twenty-seven works on a wide range of subjects, including education, nutrition, abstinence from alcohol and tobacco and other health issues, and treatment of slaves. At the same time he continued his hat trade and grew wealthy. Some of his self-help books sold very well. His most widely read book was \"The Way to Health\", published in 1691 as a second edition of \"Health's Grand Preservative; or, The Women's Best Doctor\" (1682). It inspired Benjamin Franklin to adopt vegetarianism. Tryon’s writings also impressed playwright Aphra Behn (whose “On the Author of that Excellent Book Intitled The way to HEALTH, LONG LIFE, and HAPPINESS,” appears in Tryon's 1697 \"Way to Health\"\"), and vegetarian poet Percy Bysshe Shelley. Tryon died in 1703 and his \"Memoirs\" were published posthumously in 1705.\n\nTryon’s ideas on historical and philosophical matters were heavily influenced by ancient Pythagoreanism, Hinduism, and the teachings of German occultist Heinrich Cornelius Agrippa. He considered himself a Christian and tried to reconcile Biblical, Pythagorean and Hindu teachings. His conviction was that there was one true original religion of mankind, followed by Moses, Pythagoras and the Indian Brahmins, but perverted by the majority of Christians. According to him, the main tenets of that faith were pacifism and non-violence to animals; benevolence to all species and vegetarianism were prerequisites for spiritual progress and a possible restoration of Paradise. He explicitly advocated animal rights.\n\nTryon was of the opinion that humans are a miniature image of the universe (microcosm). He voiced ecological and conservationist concerns about the pollution of rivers and the destruction of forests. He did not believe in reincarnation, but assumed that the souls of sinners take on the forms of vicious beasts in a nightmarish afterlife.\n\nTyron has been associated with the history of animal rights. Historians have described Tyron as the first known author to use the word \"rights\" in regard to animals in his book \"The Way to Health, Long Life and Happiness\", published in 1683. He commented that man \"would fain be an absolute monarch or arbitrary tyrant, making nothing at his pleasure to break the laws of God, and invade and destroy all the rights and of the inferior creatures.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1855167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855167", "title": "La Mano Cornuda", "text": "La Mano Cornuda\n\nLa Mano Cornuda is the second studio album by the American rock and roll band Supersuckers. It was released on March 1, 1994, on Sub Pop. The title is Spanish for \"the horned hand\", a reference to the hand sign often seen at rock and roll shows.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1855168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855168", "title": "Swingman", "text": "Swingman\n\nA swingman is an athlete capable of playing multiple positions in their sport.\n\nIn basketball, the term “swingman” (a.k.a. “wing” or “guard-forward”) denotes a player who can play both the shooting guard (2) and small forward (3) positions, and in essence \"swing\" between the positions.\n\nExamples are Jimmy Butler, DeMar DeRozan, Paul George, and Andrew Wiggins.\n\nIn ice hockey, a swingman is a player that could play both defenseman and forward, such as Brent Burns of the San Jose Sharks, Dustin Byfuglien of the Winnipeg Jets, and Brendan Smith of the New York Rangers .\n\nIn baseball, a swingman is a pitcher who can work either as a reliever or as a starter. As baseball is a sport with set rotations and bullpen pitchers, swingmen are not commonly seen in today's sports era but it is of possibility for managers to exchange a starting pitcher with a bullpen arm for betterment of team's success. Usually, swingmen are commonly seen in postseason baseball. When a team is in need of a win, a starting pitcher can comeback in for relief in any game after a day of them having pitched. For example, the Boston Red Sox won the 2018 World Series and in order to do so, their ace starting pitcher Chris Sale, who had just pitched 2 days before, came into the game in the 8th and 9th inning as a closer in order to defeat the Los Angeles Dodgers and win the World Series therefore titling him a swingman for that series. Basically, swingmen are those pitchers, usually the best pitchers on the team, who are in need being that the team is in a position to win big games. c sometimes, if the pitcher is usually a long reliever, he is called a \"spot starter\".\n\nThe term is also used in Australian rules football, typically to describe a player who can play both in attack and in defence, usually as a key position player. Examples include Harry Taylor, Ryan Schoenmakers, Ben Reid and Jarryd Roughead.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1855172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855172", "title": "Pocket Money", "text": "Pocket Money\n\nPocket Money is a 1972 film directed by Stuart Rosenberg, from a screenplay written by Terrence Malick and based on the 1970 novel \"Jim Kane\" by J.P.S. Brown. The film stars Paul Newman and Lee Marvin and takes place in 1970s Arizona and northern Mexico.\n\nThe song \"Pocket Money\" is composed and performed by Carole King. Portions of the film were shot at Southwestern Studios in Carefree, Arizona, a facility originally built by cast member Fred Graham.\n\nAccording to co-star Wayne Rogers in an episode of “Pop Goes the Culture,” Newman and Marvin did not get along especially well during production. This was one of three films that Newman, Rogers, and Rosenberg made together, the others being Cool Hand Luke (1967) and WUSA (1970).\n\nBroke and in debt, an otherwise honest cowboy known as Jim Kane (Newman) gets mixed up in some shady dealings with Stretch Russell (Rogers) and Bill Garrett (Martin), a crooked rancher. Russell tells Kane to escort 200 head of cattle from Mexico to the United States for a good sum of money. Kane agrees and brings along his friend Leonard (Marvin) to aid him. Unfortunately, the two come upon many unexpected events that often deter them from completing their job.\n\nPaul Newman ... Jim Kane<br>\nLee Marvin ... Leonard<br>\nStrother Martin... Bill Garrett<br>\nWayne Rogers ... Stretch Russell<br>\nHector Elizondo... Juan<br>\nChristine Belford... Adelita<br>\nKelly Jean Peters... Sharon (Kane's ex-wife)<br>\nGregg Sierra ... Guerro Chavarin<br>\nFred Graham ... Uncle Herb<br>\nMatt Clark ... American prisoner<br>\nClaudio Miranda ... Manisterio Publico<br>\nTerrence Malick ... Worksman\n\nRoger Ebert of the \"Chicago Sun-Times\" gave the film two stars out of four and wrote, \"The movie seems to be going for a highly mannered, elliptical, enigmatic style, and it gets there. We don't.\" Gene Siskel of the \"Chicago Tribune\" gave the film zero stars out of four and called the performances by the two leads \"completely self-indulgent,\" suggesting that \"Maybe Newman and Marvin made it because they wanted to go slumming in Mexico for two weeks. On that basis, 'Pocket Money' can be considered a 35-millimeter home movie of what Paul Newman and Lee Marvin did last summer.\" Vincent Canby of \"The New York Times\" called it \"a fragmented, far-from-great movie, and it won't change cinema history, but in its own odd fashion it celebrates humdrum lives without ever resorting to patronizing artifice.\" Kevin Thomas of the \"Los Angeles Times\" wrote that Newman and Marvin had \"found precisely the right material to enable them not only to play off each other but also to shine individually. This delightful contemporary comedy-western in fact is that most precious of commodities these days: a movie that actually cheers you up and leaves you feeling better when you come out than when you went in.\"\n\n\"TV Guide\" wrote in a retrospective review, “Paul Newman, Sidney Poitier, Barbra Streisand, Steve McQueen, and Dustin Hoffman formed First Artists, and this was their premier offering. It wasn't as terrible a movie as the first reviews of it indicated, but since so much was expected, anything less than brilliance was a letdown.” The film currently has a 67% rating on Rotten Tomatoes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1855173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855173", "title": "Yamal Airlines", "text": "Yamal Airlines\n\nYamal Airlines (Russian: ОАО \"Авиационная транспортная компания \"Ямал\", \"OAO Aviacionnaja transportnaja kompania \"Yamal\"\") is an airline based in Salekhard, Yamalo-Nenets Autonomous Okrug, Russia. It operates regional passenger services and was established in 1997.\n\nYamal Airlines serves the following destinations:\n\n\nThe Yamal Airlines fleet comprises the following aircraft (as of 7 May 2019):\n\n9. https://web.archive.org/web/20150906054128/http://yamal.aero/content/nash-flot/park-samoletov/\n\n"}
{"id": "1855175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855175", "title": "Anchee Min", "text": "Anchee Min\n\nAnchee Min or Min Anqi (; born January 14, 1957, in Shanghai, China) is a Chinese-American author who lives in San Francisco and Shanghai. Min has published two memoirs, \"Red Azalea\" and \"\", and six historical novels. Her fiction emphasizes strong female characters, such as Jiang Qing, the wife of chairman Mao Zedong, and Empress Dowager Cixi, the last ruling empress of China.\n\nMin was born in Shanghai on January 14, 1957. Her parents were both teachers. She was nine years old when the Cultural Revolution began. As a child, she was a member of the Little Red Guards and was made to report her favourite teacher, who was accused of being an anti-Maoist, to the authorities.\n\nWhen Min was 17, she was sent to a collective farm near the East China Sea, where she endured horrific conditions and worked 18-hour days. Eventually, she suffered a spinal cord injury. She began an affair with the commander at her camp, a woman named Yin, although she attributes the affair largely to loneliness.\n\nAt the collective farm, Min was discovered by a team of talent scouts from the Shanghai Film Studio and was selected to become an actress for her ideal \"proletarian good looks.\" She eventually won the lead role in a propaganda film inspired by Madame Mao. However, the film was never completed. After Mao Zedong's death and the subsequent fall of Jiang Qing, Min was ostracized and treated badly. She was depressed and considered suicide. With the assistance of her friend, American actress Joan Chen, and the sponsorship of her aunt living in Singapore, Min obtained a passport and applied to the School of the Art Institute of Chicago. She then emigrated to the United States. As she was initially entering the country, she was nearly deported when it was discovered that, contrary to what she had put on her visa application, she did not speak English. However, she was able to convince the immigration officer to allow her to enter into the country.\n\nAfter moving to the US, Min worked five jobs at the same time and learned English by watching \"Sesame Street\".\n\nMin's first husband was a Chinese artist named Qigu. Together they had a daughter, Lauryann (who attends Stanford University). According to Min herself, she \"lured [Qigu] into marriage, making herself pregnant by him although she knew he did not want a child\" and subsequently their marriage fell apart.\nHer second marriage was to author Lloyd Lofthouse. \n\nMin graduated from the School of the Art Institute of Chicago with a B.F.A. and M.F.A. in Fine Arts.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1855178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855178", "title": "Vasile Luca", "text": "Vasile Luca\n\nVasile Luca (born László Luka; 8 June 1898 – 23 July 1963) was an Austro-Hungarian-born Romanian and Soviet communist politician, a leading member of the Romanian Communist Party (PCR) from 1945 and until his imprisonment in the 1950s. Noted for his activities in the Ukrainian SSR in 1940–1941, he sided with Ana Pauker during World War II, and returned to Romania to serve as the minister of finance and one of the most recognizable leaders of the Communist regime. Luca's downfall, coming at the end of a conflict with Gheorghe Gheorghiu-Dej, signaled that of Pauker.\n\nHe was married to Elisabeta Luca (née Betty Birman), a volunteer in the International Brigades during the Spanish Civil War, who was also imprisoned following her husband's arrest.\n\nA native of Szentkatolna (or Sâncatolna - present-day Catalina) in Transylvania (at the time part of Austria-Hungary), Luca was an ethnic Hungarian from the Székely community, of \"proletarian\" origin. He was sometimes, most probably erroneously, identified as Jewish by some Romanian historians and journalists, or as a Transylvanian German.\n\nIn the period following the Aster Revolution, as Transylvania's administration was taken over by Romania, he joined Károly Kratochwill's non-communist Székely Division (formed inside Hungary by Hungarian Transylvanian refugees), which tried to oppose the Romanian military. After the Romanian Army crushed the Hungarian Soviet Republic, Luca moved to Braşov and began working for the Romanian Railways (CFR), attempting to align railworkers' trade union with the Profintern. Luca later admitted that, in Leninist terms, he had been mistaken to leave the Division — after allegedly being persuaded to do so by a group of workers in Satu Mare — as he had missed an opportunity to carry out \"revolutionary work under party directives\", although he confessed that he had been denied membership in the Hungarian Communist Party.\n\nHe soon adhered to the larger maximalist wing of the former Socialist Party of Romania, which had established the Romanian Communist Party, and became an associate of Imre Aladar. In 1924, as the party was outlawed and forced into the underground, Luca was elected secretary of the Brașov regional committee. Participating in the preparations for the 1929 Lupeni Strike in the Jiu Valley, he was also elected, together with Alexandru Nicolschi, to the internal Politburo - one of the two bodies established by the Comintern at the time, the other one supervising from inside the Soviet Union. In conflicts inside the party, he was punished by the Comintern overseers and the Stalinist leadership, being recalled from his party functions and later on required to display a dose of self-criticism.\n\nArrested in 1924, 1933, and 1938, and sentenced to prison terms; notably, Luca was successfully defended by attorneys paid for with Red Aid funds during a 1927 trial in Cluj (where Boris Stefanov was sentenced), and was represented by Ion Gheorghe Maurer during his 1938 trial. He was serving time in Cernăuţi, having been found guilty of attempt to cross the border between the Kingdom of Romania and the Ukrainian SSR, when the Soviet Union annexed Northern Bukovina (\"see Soviet occupation of Bessarabia and Northern Bukovina\").\n\nLuca reoriented himself in the aftermath of the Great Purge (having already renounced the friendship with Purge victim Aladar, as well as those of Vitali Holostenco, Eugen Rozvan, and Elek Köblös). He took up Soviet citizenship, became deputy mayor of Chernivtsi, and a deputy in the Soviet of Nationalities of the Ukrainian SSR. The Trotskyist journal the New International accused Luca of having participated in a supposed deportation of almost 30,000 citizens from Northern Bukovina to the Asiatic republics of the Soviet Union. On 26 March 1941, in Storozhynets, he gave a speech in front of a mass of people who were protesting the Soviet administration, calling them \"spies, enemies, and diversionists\"; the crowd responded with heckling. On 1 April, a large number of people from nearby villages were killed while attempting to cross the border from the Soviet Union to Romania in Fântâna Albă (now Bila Krynytsya, Ukraine) — \"see Fântâna Albă massacre\".\n\nAfter the start of Operation Barbarossa, he was instrumental in the creation of a Romanian language section for Radio Moscow, broadcasting propaganda against the Ion Antonescu regime and its German allies (\"see Romania during World War II\"). At the time, he began his collaboration with Ana Pauker, who led the main cell of the PCR's \"exterior wing\", created by those who had taken refuge inside the Soviet Union. He enlisted in the Red Army, helped recruit Romanian prisoners of war to form the Tudor Vladimirescu Division, and then returned to Romania with the Soviet troops in late 1944 (\"see Soviet occupation of Romania\"). Luca later stated that he had been disappointed in the fact that local forces under King Mihai I had taken the initiative in ousting Antonescu and aligning the country with the Allies, arguing that the PCR was supposed to await the Soviets' presence.\n\nOne year later, he became party secretary, and soon after the finance minister and the deputy premier in the Petru Groza cabinet which he had helped bring to power in February 1945 (with Pauker, he ensured the Allied Commission's support for Communists who were protesting against the Nicolae Rădescu executive). Luca became involved in all major conflicts between the PCR and the traditional opposition forces, the National Peasants' Party and the National Liberal Party: he gave inflammatory speeches on the issue of Northern Transylvania's return to Romania (journalist Victor Frunză later claimed Luca recommended its postponing), on projects regarding the establishment of a dictatorship of the proletariat, as well as on collectivization.\n\nAt the Party Conference in October, when the balance set after General Secretary Ştefan Foriş' downfall came to be questioned, Luca made his voice heard in opposition to Gheorghe Gheorghiu-Dej's \"internal wing\", and proposed that the latter be kept as nominal leader (with Pauker taking over the party executive); Gheorghiu-Dej, who managed to obtain Joseph Stalin's approval through the intervention of Emil Bodnăraş, became focused on maneuvering against the rival faction.\n\nIn late 1945, the issue of collectivization brought Luca into a brief and intense conflict with the Ploughmen's Front (a group led by Petru Groza and allied with the Communists), which threatened to cease supporting the PCR if private property was not going to be guaranteed. His plans for rapid communization also rose opposition inside the party — Lucreţiu Pătrăşcanu is known to have advised against them.\n\nWith those of Pauker, Teohari Georgescu, and Gheorghiu-Dej, his name was one of the most prominent in propaganda (including the famous collective slogan \"Ana, Luca, Teo, Dej / Bagă spaima în burgheji\" — \"Ana, Luca, Teo[hari], Dej / Scare the bourgeois\"). The group of leaders was active in suppression of various inner-party political factions, starting with that of Foriș, and continued with those of Remus Koffler and Pătrășcanu.\n\nHe directed the forced transition to collective farming, and kept his ministerial office after the proclamation of Communist Romania. Inside the Secretariat, he, Pauker and Georgescu eventually became the main obstacle in the way of Gheorghiu-Dej's policies. An article published in 1948 in the Trotskyist journal New International described Luca as the \"most sectarian member of the Stalinist ruling gang\".\n\nWhile Luca had supported the rise of Gheorghiu-Dej during the Griviţa Strike of 1933, his temper caused frictions with the new leader. He was quite open about his opposition to the Danube-Black Sea Canal—a pet project of Dej, apparently recommended by Joseph Stalin himself. On the initiative of General Secretary Gheorghiu-Dej, who sought and obtained Stalin's approval for purging the leadership in January 1952 (Dej had traveled personally to Moscow for that purpose; Vyacheslav Molotov intervened on behalf of Pauker, whereas Lavrentiy Beria defended Georgescu) Luca was dismissed from government office in March, and purged from the party in May (formally, in August 1953), together with Pauker.\n\nOfficially, the purge was centered on accusations regarding Luca's opposition to the monetary reform of the Romanian leu, a measure ordered by the Soviet Union and carried out on 28 January 1952. He had been charged, through the voice of Miron Constantinescu, with \"grave deviations\" and taking a \"right wing opportunistic line, breaking away from the working classes\" (\"see Right Opposition\"); in addition to sharing the blame, Pauker was accused of having taken a \"left wing opportunistic line\" (\"see Left Opposition\") on various issues. Upon witnessing the attack on him during the Plenary meeting of May (immediately amplified by the interventions of Alexandru Moghioroş, Iosif Rangheţ, Ion Vincze and others), Luca fainted. He was arrested in the same month, some days after his deposition and political indictment.\n\nLuca's interrogation, approved and supervised by Soviet advisors, also involved aspects of his past: it was alleged that, as a youth, he had taken part in conflicts opposing the Székely Division and the communists on the side of the former, that he had been recruited by the Romanian secret police (Siguranţa Statului) in the early 1920s and had thus infiltrated the PCR, and that he had been paid to encourage fighting inside the party.\n\nIn October 1954, he was sentenced to death for economic sabotage, but, after appealing to the PCR leaders, he had his sentence commuted to life imprisonment and hard labour, and died 9 years later in the prison of Aiud, having been kept in almost complete isolation. After his imprisonment, he wrote several letters to Gheorghiu-Dej, in which he continued to plead his innocence; it is not known if the addressee ever replied to Luca personally, but he would usually add derogatory comments to the margin of each letter. Twenty-nine of Luca's present and former collaborators — from the Finance Ministry employees and from Centrocoop — were also arrested at the time. They were all subjected to torture. Alexandru Iacob, the deputy finance minister, received 20 years of forced labor, while Ivan Solymos, vice-president of Centrocoop, was sentenced to 15 and Dumitru Cernicica, the Centrocoop first vice-president, was condemned to 3 years of corrective jail.\n\nIn 1952, charges against Luca implicated Teohari Georgescu, who was accused of \"împăciuitorism\" (\"appeasing attitude\") and admitted to \"not having seen the gravity of Luca's deeds\" in a futile effort to save himself from incarceration. Pauker herself claimed that she had suspected Luca of attempting to topple Gheorghiu-Dej, and argued that her Jewish origins and Luca's Hungarian roots had made them the target of Soviet suspicion (she recalled having been told so by Andrey Vyshinsky), as well as unpopular inside Romania.\n\nThe entire writings of Luca, Pauker, and Georgescu were removed from their places in officially sanctioned libraries, and quotes from them were systematically deleted from reference works.\n\nIn September 1965, just two years after his death and six months after the death of Gheorghiu-Dej, the change in tone signaled by Nicolae Ceauşescu, the new general secretary, led to the re-evaluation of Luca's case by a party commission that included Ion Popescu-Puţuri.\n\nThe investigation revealed major irregularities and a pattern of abusive measures, including the direct implication of Gheorghiu-Dej, Iosif Chişinevschi, and Securitate chief Alexandru Drăghici, into the proceedings, as well as inhumane treatment to which Luca had been subjected. It resulted in Luca's rehabilitation in 1968 (although the final verdict seemed to confirm that Luca had betrayed some of his comrades during his 1920s stay in Jilava prison).\n\n"}
{"id": "1855186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855186", "title": "Goodbye Enemy Airship the Landlord Is Dead", "text": "Goodbye Enemy Airship the Landlord Is Dead\n\nGoodbye Enemy Airship the Landlord Is Dead is the second studio album by the Canadian post-rock band Do Make Say Think. It was released on March 13, 2000 in Europe and March 23, 2000 worldwide. The record was published through the influential Montreal-based record label, Constellation Records.\n\nMost of the album, except for two tracks, was recorded in a barn outside of Toronto, imbuing the record with a lofty, nighttime ambiance complete with crickets chirping. The two remaining songs—\"The Apartment Song\" and \"Goodbye Enemy Airship\"—were recorded at CIUT-FM studios at the University of Toronto, the same place where the group's eponymous debut album was recorded.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1855187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855187", "title": "The Jack Pine", "text": "The Jack Pine\n\nThe Jack Pine is a well-known oil painting by Canadian artist Tom Thomson. A representation of the most broadly distributed pine species in Canada, it is considered an iconic image of the country's landscape, and is one of the country's most widely recognized and reproduced artworks.\n\nThe painting was completed in 1917, the year of Thomson's death. It is a roughly square canvas that measures 127.9 × 139.8 cm. It has been in the collection of the National Gallery of Canada in Ottawa since 1918. \n\nBeginning in 1913, Thomson annually stayed in Algonquin Park from the spring until the autumn, often working as a guide while also fishing and painting for his own pleasure. In 1916, he also worked in the Park as a fire ranger. It was there, on Grand Lake with the hills near Carcajou Bay in the background, that Thomson made the oil sketch in 1916 that he would use for the final painting in 1917. There are numerous other paintings by Thomson with compositions similar to that of \"The Jack Pine\": in fact, the majority of Thomson's canvasses depict the far side of a shore. These include \"Northern Lake\" (1912–13), his first; \"Pine Island, Georgian Bay\" (1914–1916; pictured); and more famously, \"The West Wind\" (1917), another painting of iconic status.\n\nThe painting depicts a jack pine as a decorative and abstracted pattern, its shapes boldly simplified against the sunset. This stylization demonstrates Thomson's command of decorative effects, developed during his years as a graphic designer, and with the strong colour and value contrasts, creates the picture's symbolic resonance. The pine, its branches bowed and placed to the right of centre, extends nearly the full length of the canvas, and is cropped at the top. It rises from a rocky foreground; the hardy jack pine often takes root on shores hostile to other trees, its sparsely leaved branches forming eccentric shapes. It is silhouetted against water and sky, with the canvas bisected by the far shore.\n\nThe final canvas differs markedly from Thomson's spring 1916 sketch. He made the tree appear larger by lowering the hills on the far side of the lake. The weather had been stormy when Thomson made the sketch and the dark, rolling clouds were echoed in the heavy, swirling brushwork of the sky and the slate grey lake. In the final painting, Thomson has swapped the storm clouds for a clear twilight sky. The sky and lake are now highly stylized, painted in long horizontal brushstrokes that show, along with its nearly square format, the influence of Thomson's colleague Lawren Harris.\n\nThomson began with a vermilion red undertone, which he likely chose to avoid mixing the complementary colours red and green. The red was allowed to show through in parts of the tree, foreground landscape, and hills, making the colour \"[seem] to vibrate\". \n\nYet the focal point of the painting is not in the foreground, but at the distant shore—the patch of snow just below the centre of the canvas. Dennis Reid, who wrote a booklet on the painting for the National Gallery, points out an almost circular shape made by the foreground elements that encompass the focal point. The circle is formed from the large curving branches of the tree, the sloping left foreground, and the smaller tree at right. Reid writes that this near-circle \"exists in space more like a ball, and as we peer through that ball to the opposite shore, for an instant we're inside our eye.\"\n\nThomson's background in design lent his composition an Art-Nouveau sensibility. One reviewer notes the effect in it and \"The West Wind\": \"[these] two best-known canvases ... are essentially \"Art Nouveau\" designs in the flat, the principal motif in each case being a tree drawn in great sinuous curves ... Such pictures, are, however, saved from complete stylization by the use of uncompromisingly native subject-matter and of Canadian colours, the glowing colours of autumn.\"\n\nAccording to A. Y. Jackson, Thomson was dissatisfied with the canvas, particularly the background and sky.\n\nTom Thomson had little to say about \"The Jack Pine\" or his painting in general. \"The Jack Pine\", a stylized landscape with few elements – painted by a man who died the year he painted it, a man who would become an icon in his country — has encouraged various readings of Thomson's artistic motivations. Dennis Reid observes the limitations of received views of such popular artworks: \"\"The Jack Pine\", is, after all, like all successful works of art a living thing that grows or declines, unfolds or closes up, according to the nature and the quality of the attention it receives. In that sense, there are as many meanings as there are viewers.\"\n\nBlodwen Davies was the first biographer of Thomson, and a Theosophist. Emphasizing the \"spirit\" of the painting, she wrote in 1935, \"the spirit of the canvas leaps out to meet the spectator in a way no reproduction can fully convey. There is no fumbling, no hesitancy here ... [Thomson's] brush was sure. Heavily laden with paint it swept over the canvas in broad, exultant strokes in which the very spirit of Tom Thomson still speaks aloud.\" Another Theosophist, Fred Housser, described the painting in 1926 as \"a devotional meditative study. A single tree stands spreading the tracery of its limbs and branches like the pulsating veins of Mother Nature ... [One] could believe that this tree was to the nature-worshipper Thomson what the symbol of the cross was to a mediaeval mystic.\"\n\nThomson was an important influence on the Group of Seven, with members such as Lawren Harris advocating his work. In a review of the Art Gallery of Toronto's Inaugural Exhibition of 1926, Harris dismissed much of the American art shown there, writing that most of it \"represented the average of the academies... no one of these canvasses approaches Thomson's \"The West Wind\" or \"Jack Pine\" in devotion and greatness of spirit.\" Those two paintings, he wrote, \"contain the lasting qualities of the best old masters. The devotional mood of \"The Jack Pine\" is the same as in Giovanni Bellini's \"Madonna and Child\"\". \n\nArthur Lismer, also part of the Group of Seven, commented on Thomson's painting. Writing in 1930, he stated that \"The Jack Pine\" was a work of \"significant form ... The artist thinks of big things first – and the design in this picture is the biggest thing in it. It is like a symphony of music. All the instruments are playing a part, and none is out of harmony with the whole ... the theme of a painting is a movement in space. The upright lines of the tree trunk give it serenity; the horizontal lines of the shore supplement this and give it strength; the rounded masses of the hills repeat the circular rhythm of the foliage masses, giving movement and powerful rhythm to the whole composition.\"\n\nPeter Mellen, author of \"The Group of Seven\" (1970), wrote of the work's \"perfect serenity. It is evening – the sky and lake are perfectly calm and are painted in broad, flat horizontal strokes. Even the soft mauves, pinks, and greens contribute to this effect. Countering the strong horizontals are the drooping red tendrils of the bare pine branches, the vertical lines of the trees, and the curves of the hills ... [Thomson] achieves pure poetry in painting, by combining an intuitive feeling for nature with an almost classical control of technique.\" A year later, Jean Boggs proposed that Thomson was influenced by the European Symbolists: \"against the dying light and sky the scraggly forms of \"The Jack Pine\" are most dramatic, its branches struggling to life but dominated by dark-green, tattered, bat-like forms as if the tree were a symbol – beautiful, oriental, but a symbol nevertheless of Thomson's wish for his own death on this spot.\" Others considered the painting evidence that Thomson was, or might have become, an increasingly abstract or Expressionist artist.\n\nThe National Gallery of Canada in Ottawa has held the work since shortly after its creation. During his wilderness travels, Thomson likely stored \"The Jack Pine\" in his shack behind the Studio Building. In late 1917, Dr. Norm MacCallum, Thomson's patron, put it and a few other works by Thomson on display at the Arts and Letters Club. Representatives of the National Gallery visited the club on two occasions in the spring of 1918. The museum wished to add to its existing collection of three works by Thomson. Director Eric Brown was appalled on his first visit at the poor lighting provided the paintings. For the second visit, May 2, the display had been improved, and the director and his associate chose \"The Jack Pine\" (along with Thomson's \"Autumn Garland\" and 25 sketches) for the National Gallery. Brown wrote to a colleague that \"The Jack Pine\" was \"in our opinion, and that of Thomson's fellow painters, the best picture of any kind he ever painted.\"\n\nTwo months after \"The Jack Pine\" arrived in Ottawa in August 1918, it was sent to St. Louis, Missouri, as part of an exhibition of contemporary Canadian art. It circulated until 1919, and only in February 1920 was the painting first displayed in Canada, as part of a Thomson memorial exhibition. In the next five decades it would be displayed widely, in Europe (London, Paris, Ghent), and across Canada and the United States.\n\n\"The Jack Pine\" was included in an exhibition of Thomson's work that travelled across Canada in 2003, organized by the National Gallery and the Art Gallery of Ontario. It was then shown at the Hermitage Museum in Russia in 2004.\n\n\"The Jack Pine\", with other works by Thomson, has become an iconic representation of the Canadian landscape. Thomson's life and mysterious death is a popular subject of Canadian biography and poetry. Even \"The Jack Pine\" is a title referent in a few poems, including Henry Beissel's \"Tom Thomson's Jackpine\" and Doug Barbour's \"Tom Thomson's 'The Jack Pine' (1916–1917)\". Beissel's poem concludes:\n<poem>\n... the light is at peace with the tree and the lake.\nCalmly it amplifies the beryline silence brooding\non the waters where Tom's spirit rests forever\nalongside the sky stretched out in the shadow\nof the jackpine that holds heaven and earth\ntogether in an embrace encompassing the hills\nthe lake, the seasons, and the void that fills\nthe dark spaces between them and infinity.\n</poem>\nThe painting has been widely reproduced, seen across Canada in schools and public institutions. In 1967, a stamp featuring \"The Jack Pine\" was released to coincide with the fiftieth anniversary of the painting's creation and Thomson's death.\n\nThe pine depicted in the painting was located by park staff in 1970. The tree was already dead by the time of its discovery; it later fell over and was used for firewood by campers. A lookout at Grand Lake now marks the site of the painting with a plaque that notes the significance of Thomson's work and depicts the painting alongside a photograph of the scene from the 1970s, before the tree fell.\n\nThe painting was the inspiration for \"Lone Pine Sunset\" by author and artist Douglas Coupland, an installation located at Parliament station of the Ottawa O-Train.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1855189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855189", "title": "The Smoke of Hell", "text": "The Smoke of Hell\n\nThe Smoke of Hell is the first studio album by the American rock and roll band The Supersuckers. It was released on September 1, 1992, on Sub Pop records. The cover art was by the comic book artist Daniel Clowes.\n\n"}
{"id": "1855190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855190", "title": "Young Vienna", "text": "Young Vienna\n\nYoung Vienna (\"Jung-Wien\") was a society of \"fin de siècle\" writers who met in Vienna's Café Griensteidl and other nearby coffeehouses in the late nineteenth century. \n\nThe group turned away from the prevailing Naturalism of the time and experimented with various facets of Modernism, including Symbolism and Impressionism. In his review of turn of the century Vienna, historian Carl Schorske wrote of the movement that they \"challenged the moralistic stance of nineteenth century literature in favor of sociological truth and psychological - especially sexual - openness.\"\n\nHermann Bahr was considered the group's spokesman. Other members included Arthur Schnitzler, , Peter Altenberg, Richard Beer-Hofmann, Felix Salten, Raoul Auernheimer, Hugo von Hofmannsthal, and Karl Kraus. Kraus would later distance himself from the group, and in his essay \"The Demolished Literature,\" written soon after the Café Griensteidl's demolition in 1897, he criticized the group and predicted that it \"would soon expire for lack of a foyer.\" After the café's demolition the group (sans Kraus) continued to meet at the nearby Café Central. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1855193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855193", "title": "R28 (South Africa)", "text": "R28 (South Africa)\n\nThe R28 is a provincial route in Gauteng, South Africa that connects Krugersdorp with Vereeniging via Randfontein. The R28 used to connect with Pretoria, but that section of the road is now part of the N14.\n\nThe R28 begins at a 4-way intersection with the N14 national route and the M47 Johannesburg Metropolitan Route north-east of Krugersdorp, Mogale City Local Municipality (at Cradlestone Mall; midway between Krugersdorp And Muldersdrift) (north-west of Roodepoort). The R28 used to proceed north-east as the route to Pretoria, but that section of the road was given to the N14 national route between Pretoria and Springbok.\n\nFrom there, the R28 heads south-west to intersect with the R24 Road from Roodepoort in Krugersdorp Central. After the R24 Junction, the R28 continues by way of a right turn at Main Reef Road, which is the next junction after the railway crossing. It heads south-west for 10 km before intersecting with the R41 from Roodepoort at Randfontein in the Rand West City Local Municipality. They are one road for the next 800 metres before the R41 splits from the R28 and heads west. The R28 continues to go south and meets the R559 route.\n\nAfterwards, it proceeds southwards to Westonaria (bypassing Westonaria Central to the east) and meets the N12 Moroka Bypass between Johannesburg south and Potchefstroom. After the N12 Junction, it heads south-east as Randfontein Road for about 30 km towards Sebokeng.\n\nNext, the R28 crosses the N1 Kroonvaal Toll Route between Johannesburg and Kroonstad and enters Evaton, Emfuleni Local Municipality (South Of Orange Farm). Right after the off-ramp, it intersects with the R553 from Johannesburg at a t-junction and joins it going southwards as the Golden Highway, passing through western Sebokeng, for 9 kilometres up to the 4-way junction with the R54 road.\n\nAt the junction with the R54 road from Potchefstroom, the R28 stops co-signing with the R553 southwards and begins co-signing with the R54 eastwards towards Vereeniging, bypassing Vanderbijlpark. After 6 km, the R54 becomes its own road eastwards (Houtkop Road, bypassing Vereeniging Central), leaving the R28 as the south-easterly road to Vereeniging central (Boy Louw street). After crossing the R59 highway, the R28 becomes Beaconsfield Road, enters Vereeniging Central and ends at an intersection with the R82 (Voortrekker Street).\n\n"}
{"id": "1855195", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855195", "title": "Pocket money", "text": "Pocket money\n\nPocket money may refer to:\n"}
{"id": "1855200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855200", "title": "R29 (South Africa)", "text": "R29 (South Africa)\n\nThe R29 is a provincial route in South Africa that connects Johannesburg with Leandra and Kinross via Germiston, Boksburg, Benoni and Springs. For much of its route it is named Main Reef Road. The R29 used to end near the Golela border post, however the section from Evander to Ermelo is now part of the N17 (prior to construction of the N17 extension from Leandra to Trichardt, the N17 used to follow the alignment of R29 from Leandra, however, the extension of the N17 highway has resulted in the old section of the road being given to R29) and The section from Ermelo to the Golela border post just after Pongola is now part of the N2.\n\nThe R29 begins in Johannesburg, at a junction with the R41 Road (Main Reef Road) in the Westgate suburb, as Marshall Street eastwards and Anderson Street westwards (one-way streets). The R29 continues eastwards as John Page Street by way of a right turn after the Jeppestown suburb. Shortly after, it becomes Main Reef Road. After Cleveland, the route continues by way of a right turn at Kraft Road.\n\nNorth of Germiston Central in the City of Ekurhuleni Metropolitan Municipality, the R29 continues by way of a right turn at Shamrock Road, where it meets the southern terminus of the M57 Municipal Route extension. At the next junction, the R29 continues eastwards by way of a left turn towards Boksburg. At Boksburg North, it intersects with the R21 and continues as Cason Road, up to its junction with the M43 road, where it enters Benoni. Through Benoni Central, It is Princess Avenue eastwards and Ampthill Avenue westwards (one-way streets) (meeting the R23 Route during this time), up to Kleinfontein, where it is named Main Reef Road again and proceeds by way of a right turn to be cosigned with the M45 Municipal Route. After Mackenzie Park, north of Brakpan (where it stops cosigning with the M45), it becomes its own road eastwards while the M45 continues southwards to Brakpan Central. Just after, the R29 continues by a right turn at Modder Road eastwards.\n\nSouth of Kingsway, the R29 joins the R51 Road (Kingsway Road) southwards for 5 km before splitting in the vicinity of Springs (At 4th Avenue). The R29 continues eastwards and intersects with the R555 (Welgedacht Road) in the Old Springs suburb before becoming two one-way streets (3rd Street and 4th Street) southwards and two one-way streets eastwards (1st Avenue and 2nd Avenue). It makes a 38 km journey eastwards to Devon, intersecting with the R42 midway between Springs and Devon. From Devon, it continues eastwards for 16 km to Leandra in the province of Mpumalanga. The R29 is parallel to the N17 National Route from Springs to Leandra. (Also used as an alternative and backup route when the N17 Highway has issues)\n\nThe R29 used to end in Leandra by the R50 Road Junction, with the continuing straight road eastwards being part of the N17 National Route (The N17 formed a Z-Shape in Leandra, Cosigned with the R50 up to this junction before turning eastwards). But Today, the N17 East is now a continuous straight Highway from its primary junction with the R50 south of Leandra, letting the continuous road from the R29 & R50 junction eastwards also remain with the R29 designation.\n\nThe R29 remains following and being an alternative route to The N17 Highway up to a point north-east of Evander and north-west of Secunda. From The R50 junction in Leandra, the R29 journeys eastwards for 20 km to the town of Kinross (North of Evander). After Kinross, it goes for another 10 km to mark its end at a point north-west of Secunda, where it meets the R580 Road and the N17 Highway.\n\nThe road from the Johannesburg Stock Exchange to Ormonde, named \"Simmonds Road\" closer to Johannesburg CBD (meeting the M2 Highway) and \"Booysens Road\" through Booysens up to the M1 Highway, is labelled as R29 in some parts of the road. The road is officially designated as the M27, but some areas have it indicated as the R29 Road.\n\nOn Johannesburg street signs, both the M27 and R29 symbols show on the street, from the Simmonds Road junction with Anderson Street south to Booysens. The signs suggest that the R29 does not end in Johannesburg Central, but instead becomes Simmonds Road/Booysens Road at their intersection and concludes at the junction with the M1 Highway (cosigned with the M27), with the section Of Anderson Street from the Simmonds Avenue junction to the Main Reef Road junction west of Johannesburg Central being part of the R41.\n\nAlso, the R553 Road (Golden Highway) connecting Johannesburg South with Eldorado Park may have been designated as the R29 in the past before the reformation of the South African Road System, as there is a road sign at its intersection with the M68 (Old Potchefstroom Road) near Southgate where it is designated as the R29.\n\nIt may suggest that the old R29 road passed through this section of Johannesburg before reformation of the South African Road System.\n\n"}
{"id": "1855206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855206", "title": "R30 (South Africa)", "text": "R30 (South Africa)\n\nThe R30 is a provincial route in South Africa that connects Bloemfontein with Rustenburg via Brandfort, Welkom, Bothaville, Klerksdorp and Ventersdorp. The southern part of the route is tolled, as the R30 forms the first section of the ZR Mahabane Toll Route, with the Brandfort Toll Plaza found 5 kilometres north of its Southern junction with the N1 National Route. The tolled portion ends at the junction with the R730. (The R730 takes over the Toll Road status and the R30 is toll-free for its remainder)\n\nThe R30 Road begins 16 kilometres north of Bloemfontein Central, at a junction with the N1 Highway (northbound only). It begins as the ZR Mahabane Toll Highway and heads north-north-east for 35 kilometres to the town of Brandfort. As this first section is operated by SANRAL, there is a Toll Plaza 5 kilometres from the N1 Bloemfontein interchange, at the point where the R30 exits the Mangaung Metropolitan Municipality, named the Brandfort Toll Plaza.\n\nAt Brandfort, the R30 passes through in a northeasterly direction as the main road, passing through Page Park and Brandfort Central and meeting the R703 Route. The R30 continues north-north-east for 38 kilometres to the town of Theunissen, where it bypasses the Lusaka and Masilo suburbs before passing by the town centre and meeting the R708 Route. From Theunissen, the R30 continues northwards for 21 kilometres, becoming a single carriageway with 2 lanes in each direction, to reach a junction with the R730, which marks the end of the R30 being a national toll road (the ZR Mahabane Highway maintained by SANRAL continues from this junction as the R730) (The carriageway becomes the R730 north-eastwards and the R30 continues by taking the northwards off-ramp on the left).\n\nAs of 2019, Improvements are being made to the R30 & R730 interchange.\n\nFrom the R730 junction, the R30 continues northwards for 28 kilometres, crossing the Sand River and bypassing the Welkom Airport, to reach a 4-way-junction, where it meets the western terminus of the R73 Route (which heads east into the Welkom Town Centre) and the eastern terminus of the R710.\n\nFrom the Welkom junction, the R30 continues northwards for 10 kilometres to reach an intersection with the R34 Road from Hoopstad. They become 1 road northwards for 1 kilometre as they enter the town of Odendaalsrus, before the R34 becomes its own road eastwards near the Ross Kent South suburb. After the next junction with Odendaal Road, the R30 becomes a highway for a few metres, with 1 off-ramp at Van Der Vyver Street in Hospital Park.\nFrom the Hospital Park off-ramp, the R30 heads northwards for 55 kilometres, passing by Allanridge, meeting the R713 and R719 routes, to reach an intersection with the R59 Road from Hoopstad. They become 1 road northwards, crossing the Vals River into the town of Bothaville. In Bothaville Central, the R30/R59 concurrency meets the R727 Route. North of Bothaville, at the junction with the R504 Road, the R59 becomes the road eastwards from this junction, leaving the R30 as the road northwards.\n\nFrom the R504/R59 junction, the R30 heads northwards for 38 kilometres to meet the north-western terminus of the R76 Road. The R30 heads for another 4 kilometres to cross the Vaal River into the North-West Province town of Orkney.\n\nRight after crossing the Vaal River, the R30 enters the town of Orkney and meets the R502 at the suburb of Eastleigh. From the R502 junction, the R30 continues northwards for 12 kilometres to enter the city of Klerksdorp as Church Street (Passing through the city centre) and reach an intersection with the N12 Highway as Chris Hani Road.\n\nFrom The N12 junction in Klerksdorp, the R30 heads northwards for 70 kilometres, meeting the R507 Road, to reach an intersection with the N14 National Route and enter the town of Ventersdorp. After passing the Tshing suburb, the R30 heads east through the Ventersdorp town centre as Van Riebeeck Road and reaches an intersection with the R53 Road. The 2 routes become 1 road turning north onto Roth Street, then Wallis Street, exiting Ventersdorp towards the north-east. After 2 Kilometres, the R53 becomes its own road northwards, leaving the R30 as the north-easterly road.\n\nThe R30 continues north-east for 73 kilometres, meeting the R509 Road at Derby, to reach its northern terminus at a t-junction with the R24 Road, just west of the Olifantsnek Dam, which is south of Rustenburg.\n\n"}
{"id": "1855209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855209", "title": "Trindade and Martin Vaz", "text": "Trindade and Martin Vaz\n\nTrindade and Martin Vaz (, ) is an archipelago located in the Southern Atlantic Ocean about east of the coast of Espírito Santo, Brazil, which it constitutes a part of. The archipelago has a total area of and a population of 32 (Brazilian Navy personnel). The archipelago consists of five islands and several rocks and stacks; Trindade is the largest island, with an area of ; about east of it are the tiny Martin Vaz islets, with a total area of .\n\nThe islands are of volcanic origin and have rugged terrain. They are largely barren, except for the southern part of Trindade. They were discovered in 1502 by Portuguese explorer Estêvão da Gama and stayed Portuguese until they became part of Brazil at its independence in 1822. From 1895 to 1896, Trindade was occupied by the United Kingdom until an agreement with Brazil was reached. During the period of British occupation, Trindade was known as South Trinidad.\n\nThe islands are situated some southwest of Ascension Island and west of Saint Helena, and the distance to the west coast of Africa is .\n\nThe individual islands with their respective locations are given in the following:\n\n\nThe small island of Trindade, with an area of 10.3 km², lies at the eastern end of an E-W-trending chain of submarine volcanoes and guyots extending about 1,000 km (620 mi) from the continental shelf off the Brazilian coast. The island lies more than halfway between Brazil and the Mid-Atlantic Ridge near the eastern end of the submarine Vitória-Trindade Ridge.\n\nTrindade is a mountainous, desiccated volcanic island with numerous phonolitic lava domes and steep-sided volcanic plugs. The highest summit is Pico Desejado, near the center, high. Nearby to the northwest are Pico da Trindade () and Pico Bonifácio (). Pico Monumento, a remarkable peak in the form of a slightly inclined cylinder, rises from the west coast to . The youngest volcanism, at Vulcão do Paredão () on the southeast tip of the island, constructed a pyroclastic cone with lava flows that are no older than the Holocene (Almeida, 1961). Remnants of the crater of the cinder cone are still preserved. Lava flows traveled from the cone to the north, where they formed an irregular shoreline and offshore islands. Smaller volcanic centers of the latest volcanic stage are found in the Morro Vermelho () area in the south-central part of the island.\n\nUntil 1850, the island was covered 85% of its length by a forest of \"Colubrina glandulosa\" trees, 15m in height and 40 cm trunk diameter. The introduction of non-native animals like goats, pigs, sheep, etc. and the indiscriminate cutting of trees led to total extirpation of the same, causing heavy erosion throughout the island with a loss of about 1 to 2 meter of fertile soils. The effect of this devastation impaired the flow of water streams, with the depletion of several springs.\n\nThere is a small settlement in the north on the shore of a cove called Enseada dos Portugueses, supporting a garrison of the Brazilian Navy, 32 strong.\n\nThe archipelago is the main nesting site of the green sea turtle in Brazil. There are also large numbers of breeding seabirds, including the endemic subspecies of the Great frigatebird (\"Fregata minor nicolli\") and Lesser frigatebird (\"F. ariel trinitatis\"), and it is only Atlantic breeding site for the Trindade petrel. Humpback whales have been confirmed to use the Trindade island as a nursery.\n\nThe Trindade and Martin Vaz Islands were discovered in 1502 by Portuguese navigators led by Estêvão da Gama, and along with Brazil, became part of the Portuguese Empire.\n\nMany visitors have been to Martin Vaz, the most famous of whom was the English astronomer Edmund Halley, who took possession of the island on behalf of the British Monarchy in 1700. Wild goats and hogs, descendants of ones set free by Halley, were still found on Martin Vaz in 1939.\n\n, a 198-ton, 12-gun cutter-rigged sloop, was wrecked on Trindade on 21 October 1781, shortly after Commander Philippe d'Auvergne had taken over command. \"Rattlesnake\" had been ordered to survey the island to ascertain whether it would make a useful base for outward-bound Indiamen. She anchored, but that evening the wind increased and by seven o’clock she was dragging. Two hours later the first cable parted and Commander d’Auvergne club-hauled his way out, setting main and fore sails, and using the remaining anchor cable as a spring. This successfully put \"Rattlesnake\"’s head to seaward. The remaining cable was then cut, and the sloop wore round and stood out to sea. However the ground now shallowed quite rapidly and suddenly \"Rattlesnake\" struck a submerged rock. She started filling with water, so, in order to preserve the lives of the crew, d'Auvergne ran her ashore. Commodore Johnstone on board had previously wished to colonise the island and claim it for Britain, so d'Auvergne agreed to stay on the tiny island with 30 sailors, 20 captured French sailors, one French woman, some animals and supplies. They were resupplied by another ship in January 1782, then they appear to have been forgotten, as they lived on the tiny island for a year until and a convoy of Indiamen, which fortuitously called there, rescued them in late December 1782.\n\nCaptain La Pérouse stopped there at the outset of his 1785 voyage to the Pacific.\n\nIn 1889, Edward Frederick Knight went treasure hunting on the island. He was unsuccessful but he wrote a detailed description of the island and his expedition, titled \"The Cruise of the Alerte\".\n\nIn 1893 another American, James Harden-Hickey, claimed the island and declared himself as James I, Prince of Trinidad. According to James Harden-Hickey's plans, Trinidad, after being recognized as an independent country, would become a military dictatorship and have him as dictator. He designed postage stamps, a national flag, and a coat of arms; established a chivalric order, the \"Cross of Trinidad\"; bought a schooner to transport colonists; appointed M. le Comte de la Boissiere as secretary of state; opened a consular office at 217 West 36th Street in New York City; and even issued government bonds to finance construction of infrastructure on the island. Despite his plans, his idea was ridiculed or ignored by the world.\nIn July 1895, the British again tried to take possession of this strategic position in the Atlantic. The British planned to use the island as a cable station. However, Brazilian diplomatic efforts, along with Portuguese support, reinstated Trindade Island to Brazilian sovereignty.\n\nIn order to clearly demonstrate sovereignty over the island, now part of the State of Espírito Santo and the municipality of Vitória, a landmark was built on January 24, 1897. Nowadays, Brazilian presence is marked by a permanent Brazilian Navy base on the main island.\n\nIn July 1910 the ship \"Terra Nova\" carrying the last expedition of Captain Robert Falcon Scott to the Antarctic arrived at the island, at the time uninhabited. Some members of the Scott's expedition explored the island with scientific purposes, and a description of it is included in \"The Worst Journey in the World\", by Apsley Cherry-Garrard, one of the members of the expedition.\n\nIn August 1914, the Imperial German Navy established a supply base for its warships off Trindade. On September 14, 1914, the Royal Navy auxiliary cruiser fought the German off Trindade in the Battle of Trindade. \"Carmania\" sank \"Cap Trafalgar\", but sustained severe damage herself.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1855215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855215", "title": "Ice hockey at the Olympic Games", "text": "Ice hockey at the Olympic Games\n\nIce hockey tournaments have been staged at the Olympic Games since 1920. The men's tournament was introduced at the 1920 Summer Olympics and was transferred permanently to the Winter Olympic Games program in 1924, in France. The women's tournament was first held at the 1998 Winter Olympics.\n\nThe Olympic Games were originally intended for amateur athletes. However, the advent of the state-sponsored \"full-time amateur athlete\" of the Eastern Bloc countries further eroded the ideology of the pure amateur, as it put the self-financed amateurs of the Western countries at a disadvantage. The Soviet Union entered teams of athletes who were all nominally students, soldiers, or working in a profession, but many of whom were in reality paid by the state to train on a full-time basis. In 1986, the International Olympic Committee (IOC) voted to allow professional athletes to compete in the Olympic Games starting in 1988. The National Hockey League (NHL) was initially reluctant to allow its players to compete because the Olympics are held in the middle of the NHL season, and the league would have to halt play if many of its players participated. Eventually, NHL players were admitted starting in 1998. However, the NHL again refused to release its players starting in 2018, citing financial reasons.\n\nFrom 1924 to 1988, the tournament started with a round-robin series of games and ended with the medal round. Medals were awarded based on points accumulated during that round. In 1992, the playoffs were introduced for the first time since 1920. In 1998, the format of the tournament was adjusted to accommodate the NHL schedule; a preliminary round was played without NHL players or the top six teams—Canada, the Czech Republic, Finland, Russia, Sweden and the United States—followed by a final round which included them. The tournament format was changed again in 2006; every team played five preliminary games with the full use of NHL players.\n\nThe games of the tournament follow the rules of the International Ice Hockey Federation (IIHF), which differ slightly from the rules used in the NHL.\n\nIn the men's tournament, Canada was the most successful team of the first three decades, winning six of seven gold medals. Czechoslovakia, Sweden and the United States were also competitive during this period and won multiple medals. Between 1920 and 1968, the Olympic hockey tournament was also counted as the Ice Hockey World Championship for that year. The Soviet Union first participated in 1956 and overtook Canada as the dominant international team, winning seven of the nine tournaments in which they participated. The United States won gold medals in 1960 and in 1980, which included their \"Miracle on Ice\" upset of the Soviet Union. Canada went 50 years without a gold medal, before winning one in 2002, and following it with back-to-back wins in 2010 and 2014. Other nations to win gold include Great Britain in 1936, the Unified Team in 1992, Sweden in 1994 and 2006 and the Czech Republic in 1998. Other medal-winning nations include Switzerland, Germany, Finland and Russia.\n\nIn July 1992, the IOC voted to approve women's hockey as an Olympic event; it was first held at the 1998 Winter Olympics in Nagano. The Nagano Organizing Committee was hesitant to include the event because of the additional costs of staging the tournament, but an agreement was reached that limited the field to six teams, and ensured that no additional facilities would be built. The Canadian teams have dominated the event. The United States won the first tournament in 1998 and the most recent in 2018. Canada has won all of the other tournaments (2002–2014).\n\nThe first Olympic ice hockey tournament took place at the 1920 Summer Olympics in Antwerp, Belgium. At the time, organized international ice hockey was still relatively new. The International Ice Hockey Federation (IIHF), the sport's governing body, was created on 15 May 1908, and was known as the \"Ligue Internationale de Hockey sur Glace (LIHG)\" until 1947. At the 1914 Olympic Congress in Paris, ice hockey was added to the list of optional sports that Olympics organizers could include. The decision to include ice hockey for the 1920 Summer Olympics was made in January, three months before the start of the Games. Several occurrences led to the sport's inclusion in the programme. Five European nations had committed to participating in the tournament and the managers of Antwerp's Palais de Glace stadium refused to allow the building to be used for figure skating unless ice hockey was included. The IIHF considers the 1920 tournament to be the first Ice Hockey World Championship. From then on, the two events occurred concurrently, and every Olympic tournament until 1968 is counted as the World Championship. The Olympic Games were originally intended for amateur athletes, so the players of the National Hockey League (NHL) and other professional leagues were not allowed to play.\n\nThe first Winter Olympic Games were held in 1924 in Chamonix, France. Chapter 1, article 6, of the 2007 edition of the Olympic Charter defines winter sports as \"sports which are practised on snow or ice\". Ice hockey and figure skating were permanently integrated in the Winter Olympics programme. The IOC made the Winter Games a permanent fixture and they were held the same year as the Summer Games until 1992. Following that, further Winter Games have been held on the third year (i.e. 1994, 1998, etc.) of each Olympiad.\n\nThe men's tournament held at the 1920 Summer Olympics was organized by a committee that included future LIHG president Paul Loicq. The tournament used the Bergvall System, in which three rounds were played. The first round was an elimination tournament that determined the gold medal winner. The second round consisted of the teams that were defeated by the gold medal winner; the winner of that round was awarded the silver medal. The final round was played between teams that had lost to the gold or silver medal winners; the winner of that round received the bronze medal.\n\nThe tournament was played from 23 to 29 April and seven teams participated: Canada, Czechoslovakia, the United States, Switzerland, Sweden, France and Belgium. Canada chose to send the Allan Cup-winning Winnipeg Falcons. The Swedish team consisted of mostly bandy players, many of whom had only started playing hockey in preparation for the tournament. Canada won all three of the team's games in the first round and won the gold medal, defeating Sweden in the final and outscoring opponents 27–1. In the two subsequent rounds, the United States and Czechoslovakia won the silver and bronze medals respectively. The Bergvall System was criticized, especially in Sweden, because the Swedish team had to play six games (winning three) while the bronze medal winning Czech team only had to play three (winning one). Erik Bergvall, the creator of the system, stated that it was used incorrectly and that a tournament of all of the losing teams from the first round should have been played for the silver medal. Because of these criticisms, the Bergvall System was not used again for ice hockey.\n\nIn 1924, the tournament was played in a round-robin format, consisting of a preliminary round and a medal round. The medals were awarded based on win–loss records during the medal round. This format was used until 1988, although the number of teams and games played varied slightly. The Toronto Granites, representing Canada, became one of the dominant hockey teams in Olympic history, outscoring opponents 110–3, led by Harry Watson, who scored 36 goals. The United States won silver and Great Britain won bronze. Watson's 36 goals remains the tournament record for career goals. He also set the record for career points with 36 (assists were not counted at the time), which stood until 2010.\nEleven teams participated in the 1928 Winter Olympics in St. Moritz, Switzerland. The Canadian team was given a bye to the medal round and won all of its games by a combined score of 38–0. The Swedish and Swiss teams won their first medals—silver and bronze respectively—and a German team participated for the first time, finishing ninth. At the 1932 Winter Olympics, Canada won gold in a tournament that consisted of four teams that played each other twice. Germany won bronze, the nation's first medal in the sport.\n\nTwo days before the 1936 Winter Olympics in Garmisch-Partenkirchen, Germany, Canadian officials protested that two players on the British team—James Foster and Alex Archer—had played in Canada but transferred without permission to play for clubs in the English National League. The IIHF agreed with Canada, but Great Britain threatened to withdraw the team if the two were barred from competing. To avoid a conflict, Canada withdrew the protest shortly before the Games began. The tournament consisted of four groups and fifteen teams. Great Britain became the first non-Canadian team to win gold; Canada won silver and the United States bronze.\n\nThe Canadian Amateur Hockey Association (CAHA) revised its definition of amateur and broke away from the Amateur Athletic Union of Canada in 1936, despite the possibility that its players may no longer be eligible for Olympic hockey. Tommy Lockhart founded the Amateur Hockey Association of the United States (AHAUS) in 1937, after disagreements with the Amateur Athletic Union of the United States over international amateurs. The CAHA and the AHAUS joined to form the International Ice Hockey Association in 1940. Its president W. G. Hardy sought for acceptance by the IOC on terms acceptable to the CAHA. CAHA president George Dudley subsequently threatened to withdraw Canada from the Olympics over the definition of amateur. An IOC decision on the matter was postponed when the 1940 Winter Olympics and 1944 Winter Olympics were cancelled due to World War II. In 1947, the LIHG agreed to a merger with the International Ice Hockey Association, was subsequently renamed to the IIHF, and recognized the AHAUS as the governing body of hockey in the United States instead of the AAU.\n\nThe IIHF considered whether to have an ice hockey tournament at the Winter Olympics, or host a separate Ice Hockey World Championships elsewhere in Switzerland in 1948. Avery Brundage of the United States Olympic Committee (USOC) reportedly campaigned to IIHF delegates to vote against inclusion of the AHAUS in the upcoming Olympics. The LIHG passed a resolution that its teams would only play against teams approved by the CAHA and the AHAUS, which was accepted by the Swiss Olympic organizing committee. Brundage threatened that the USOC would boycott the Olympics if the AHAUS team was recognized. The Swiss Olympic organizing committee insisted on the AHAUS team being recognized, despite persistent charges by Brundage that the AHAUS team was \"tainted with professionalism\". Brundage and the AAU supported a National Collegiate Athletic Association team instead. After bitter negotiations which were not resolved until the night before the Olympics, the AHAUS team was allowed to play in the tournament, but the IOC declared those games would not count in the standings.\n\nBoth Czechoslovakia and Canada won seven games and tied when they played each other. The gold medal winner was determined by goal difference: Canada won the gold because it had an average of 13.8 goals per game compared to Czechoslovakia's average of 4.3. Czechoslovakia's team was quickly improving; it won the 1947 and 1949 World Championships. The AHAUS team finished fourth in the standings in 1948.\n\nDiscussions began in 1950, whether or not ice hockey would be included in the 1952 Winter Olympics hosted in Oslo. The IOC sought assurance that participating teams would adhere to its amateur code rather than what was accepted by the IIHF, and also wanted to exclude IIHF president Fritz Kraatz from negotiations. George Dudley and W. G. Hardy agreed there would be no negotiations on those terms, nor would they repudiate Kraatz. Dudley referred to the IOC as dictatorial and undemocratic, and expected the IIHF to discuss having its own 1952 Ice Hockey World Championships instead. He further stated that the Olympics would be a financial failure without the inclusion of hockey. Hockey was ultimately included in the Olympics, and the gold medal was won by Canada's team for the second consecutive Games. It would be the last time that a Canadian team would win a gold medal in hockey for 50 years. The United States won silver and Sweden won bronze. A team from Finland competed for the first time.\n\nThe Soviet Union competed in its first World Championship in 1954, defeating Canada and winning the gold medal. At the 1956 Winter Olympics in Cortina d'Ampezzo, Italy, the Soviet team went undefeated and won its first gold medal. Canada's team lost to the Soviets and the United States in the medal round, winning the bronze. The 1960 Winter Olympics, in Squaw Valley, United States, saw the first, and to date only, team from Australia compete in the tournament. Canada, the Soviet Union, Czechoslovakia and Sweden were the top four teams heading into the Games, but were all defeated by the American team, which won all seven games en route to its first Olympic gold medal. Canada won the silver medal and the Soviet Union won the bronze.\n\nAt the 1964 Winter Olympics in Innsbruck, Austria, the Soviet team won all seven of its games, earning the gold medal. Canada finished the tournament with five wins and two losses, putting the team in a three-way tie for second place with Sweden and Czechoslovakia. Before 1964, the tie-breaking procedure was based on goal difference in games against teams in the medal round; under that system, Canada would have placed third ahead of the Czechoslovakian team. During the tournament the procedure was changed to take all games into consideration, which meant that the Canadians finished fourth. At the time, the Olympics counted as the World Championships; under their (unchanged) rules, Canada should have received bronze for the World Championships.\n\nThe Soviet Union won its third gold medal with a 7–1 record in the 1968 Grenoble Olympics. Czechoslovakia and Canada won the silver and bronze medals. It was the last time that the Olympics were counted as the World Championships. In 1970, Canada withdrew from international ice hockey competition protesting the use of full-time \"amateurs\" by the Soviet Union and Czechoslovakia, and the team did not participate in the 1972 and 1976 Winter Olympics. Led by goaltender Vladislav Tretiak and forwards Valeri Kharlamov, Alexander Yakushev, Vladimir Petrov and Boris Mikhailov, the Soviet team won gold at both the 1972 Games in Sapporo, Japan and 1976 Winter Olympics in Innsbruck, Austria. In 1971, the United States finished last at the World Championships and was relegated to Pool B. The team qualified for the 1972 Olympics and won silver, making it the first Pool B team to win an Olympic medal. Czechoslovakia won the bronze medal in 1972. In 1976, Czechoslovakia won the silver and West Germany won bronze. Along with Canada, the Swedish team did not participate in the 1976 tournament joining the boycott.\n\nThe Winter Olympics returned to Lake Placid, New York in 1980. Twelve teams participated in the tournament, including Canada for the first time since 1968. The Soviet Union had won the gold medal in five of the six previous Winter Olympic Games, and were the favorites to win once more in Lake Placid. The team consisted of full-time players with significant experience in international play. By contrast, the United States' team—led by head coach Herb Brooks—consisted exclusively of amateur players with mostly college experience, and was the youngest team in the tournament and in U.S. national team history. In the group stage, both the Soviet and U.S. teams were unbeaten; the U.S. achieved several notable results, including a 2–2 draw against Sweden, and a 7–3 upset victory over second-place favorites Czechoslovakia.\n\nFor the first game in the medal round, the United States played the Soviets. The first period finished tied at 2–2, and the Soviets lead 3–2 following the second. The U.S. team scored two more goals to take their first lead during the third and final period, winning the game 4–3. Following the game, the U.S. went on to clinch the gold medal by beating Finland in the final. The Soviet Union took the silver medal by beating Sweden.\n\nThe victory became one of the most iconic moments of the Games and in U.S. sports. Equally well-known was the television call of the final seconds of the game by Al Michaels for ABC, in which he declared: \"Do you believe in miracles?! YES!\" In 1999, \"Sports Illustrated\" named the \"Miracle on Ice\" the top sports moment of the 20th century. As part of its centennial celebration in 2008, the International Ice Hockey Federation (IIHF) named the \"Miracle on Ice\" as the best international ice hockey story of the past 100 years.\n\nAt the 1984 Winter Olympics in Sarajevo, Yugoslavia, the Soviet Union won its sixth gold medal. Czechoslovakia and Sweden won the silver and bronze medals. The 1988 Winter Olympics were held in Calgary, Alberta, Canada, where the Soviet team captured its seventh and final gold medal. The Soviets' last Olympic game was a loss to Finland. The Finnish team was not considered a serious medal contender—it had competed in the World Championships since 1939 and had not won a single medal. However, Finland upset the Soviets 2–1 and won silver. The IIHF decided to change the tournament format because in several cases, the gold medal winner had been decided before the final day of play. During a congress in 1990, the IIHF introduced a playoff system. The new system was used at the 1992 Winter Olympics in Albertville, France. Preliminary round-robin games were held and followed by an eight-team cup-system style medal round that culminated in a gold medal game.\n\nBefore 1989, players who lived in the Soviet Union, Czechoslovakia, and other nations behind the Iron Curtain were not allowed to leave and play in the NHL. Soviet officials agreed to allow players to leave following the 1989 World Championships. The Soviet Union dissolved in December 1991. Nine former Soviet states became part of the IIHF and started competing internationally, including Belarus, Kazakhstan, Latvia and Ukraine. At the 1992 Olympics, Armenia, Belarus, Kazakhstan, Russia, Ukraine and Uzbekistan competed as one entity, known as the Unified Team. In the final, the Unified Team defeated Canada to win gold while Czechoslovakia won the bronze.\n\nCzechoslovakia split into the Czech Republic and Slovakia in January 1993. The IIHF recognized the Czech Republic as the successor to Czechoslovakia, allowing the team to retain its position in the top World Championship division, while Slovakia started in the lowest division (Pool C) in 1994 and was forced to work its way up. Both nations competed in the tournament at the 1994 Winter Olympics, as did Russia. Slovakia and Finland both finished the preliminary round undefeated. Slovakia lost their medal round quarter-final game to Russia 2–3 OT, who later lost to Sweden 3–4 in the semi-final and Finland (who was defeated by Canada in the another semi-final) 0–4 in the bronze medal game. In the gold medal game between Sweden and Canada, both teams finished regulation and overtime play with a 2–2 tie. In the resulting shootout, the first in Olympic competition, both nations scored two goals, which resulted in a sudden death shootout. Peter Forsberg of Sweden scored one of the most famous goals in Olympic history by faking a forehand shot, then sliding a one-handed backhand shot past goaltender Corey Hirsch. Canada's final shooter Paul Kariya's shot was saved by Tommy Salo and Sweden won the game and its first gold medal.\n\nIn 1995, an agreement to allow NHL players to participate in Olympics was reached between the IOC, IIHF, NHL, and National Hockey League Players' Association (NHLPA). The format of the 1998 tournament was adjusted to accommodate the NHL's schedule. Canada, considered a pre-tournament favourite, was upset in the semi-final round by the Czech Republic and then lost the bronze medal game to Finland. Led by goaltender Dominik Hašek, the Czech team defeated Russia, winning its first gold medal in the sport. Following the tournament, NHL commissioner Gary Bettman commented that it \"was what we had predicted and hoped for from a pure hockey perspective, [it was] a wonderful tournament\".\nThe next tournament format was hosted in Salt Lake City, United States. Finnish centre Raimo Helminen became the first ice hockey player to compete in six tournaments. In the quarter-finals, Belarus defeated Sweden in one of the biggest upsets since the Miracle on Ice. The team lost to Canada 7–1 in the semi-final and Russia 7–2 in the bronze medal game, respectively. The Canadian team rebounded from a disappointing first round and defeated the American team (who eliminated Russia 3–2 in the semi-final) in the gold medal game, winning their first gold medal in 50 years and seventh in men's hockey overall.\n\nThe tournament format was adjusted for 2006. In the semi-finals, Sweden defeated the Czech Republic 7–3, and Finland ousted Russia 4–0. Sweden won the gold medal over Finland 3–2 and the Czech Republic won the bronze medal over Russia 3–0. Three months later, Sweden won the 2006 World Championships and became the first team to win the Olympic and World Championship gold in the same year. Allegations have surfaced of Sweden throwing a game against Slovakia so the Swedes would face Switzerland in the quarterfinals instead of Canada or the Czech Republic. Shortly before the game, Sweden coach Bengt-Åke Gustafsson was reported to have publicly contemplated tanking in order to avoid those teams, saying about Canada and the Czechs, \"One is cholera, the other the plague.\"\nThe 2010 Winter Olympics were held in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, the first time since NHL players started competing that the Olympics were held in a city with an NHL team. Teemu Selänne of Finland scored his 37th point, breaking the record of 36 first set by Canadian Harry Watson in 1924 and later tied by Vlastimil Bubník of Czechoslovakia, and Valeri Kharlamov of the Soviet Union. Slovakia made the final four for the first time, but lost the bronze medal game to Finland 3–5. In the gold medal game, Canada and the United States ended regulation play with a 2–2 tie, making it only the second Olympic gold medal match to go into overtime. Canadian player Sidney Crosby scored the winning goal 7:40 into overtime play to give Canada its eighth gold medal in men's hockey.\n\nThe 2014 Winter Olympics were held in Sochi, Russia, and retained the same game format used in Vancouver 2010, while returning to the larger international-sized ice rinks. Slovenia participated for the first time, upsetting Slovakia in the round-robin before losing to Sweden in the quarterfinals 0–5, for its best finish in any international tournament. Latvia upset Switzerland 3–1 in the qualification playoffs, also making it to the Olympic quarterfinals for the first time, where they were narrowly defeated by Canada 2–1. Host nation Russia, considered a pre-tournament favourite, lost 3–1 in the quarterfinals to Finland and finished 5th. Entering the semi-finals undefeated after outscoring opponents 20–6, the United States lost to Canada 0–1, then lost the bronze medal game against Finland 0–5. Teemu Selänne scored six more points in the tournament, was named tournament MVP and boosted his modern-era Olympic career record for points to 43 (24 goals, 19 assists). At the age of 43, he also set records as both the oldest Olympic goal-scorer and oldest Olympic ice hockey medal winner. Canada defeated Sweden 3–0 to win its ninth Olympic gold medal. The team did not trail at any point over the course of the tournament, and became the first back-to-back gold medal winner since the start of NHL participation in 1998, as well as the first team to go undefeated since 1984.\n\nThe Olympic ice hockey tournament in PyeongChang in 2018 was held without participation of NHL players, for the first time since the 1994 Winter Olympics in Lillehammer. The favorites to win the gold medal were the Russians due to their domestic league, the KHL, taking an Olympic break and allowing such stars as Pavel Datsyuk and Ilya Kovalchuk to play on the team. As a consequence of a doping scandal, the IOC banned the Russian federation, but allowed Russian athletes to compete under the Olympic flag after passing anti-doping tests. The final was played between the Germans, who unexpectedly eliminated the Canadians in the semifinal, and the Olympic Athletes from Russia. In the final, the Russians prevailed, defeating Germany 4–3, and won the gold medal after Kirill Kaprizov scored the winning goal in overtime. The Russian players sang the banned anthem during the medal ceremony, but the IOC decided not to pursue any action. Canada won the bronze medal over the Czech Republic 6–4.\n\nAt the 99th IOC Session in July 1992, the IOC voted to approve women's hockey as an Olympic event beginning with the 1998 Winter Olympics as part of their effort to increase the number of female athletes at the Olympics. Women's ice hockey had not been in the programme when Nagano, Japan had won the right to host the Olympics in June 1991, and the decision required approval by the Nagano Winter Olympic Organizing Committee (NAOOC). The NAOOC was initially hesitant to include the event because of the additional costs of staging the tournament and because they felt their team, which had failed to qualify for that year's World Championships, could not be competitive. According to Glynis Peters, the Canadian Amateur Hockey Association's (CAHA) head of female hockey, \"the Japanese would have to finance an entirely new sports operation to bring their team up to Olympic standards in six years, which they were also really reluctant to do.\" In November 1992, the NWOOC and IOC Coordination Committee reached an agreement to include a women's ice hockey tournament in the programme. Part of the agreement was that the tournament would be limited to six teams, and no additional facilities would be built. The CAHA also agreed to help build and train the Japanese team so that it could be more competitive. The IOC had agreed that if the NAOOC had not approved the event, it would be held at the 2002 Winter Olympics. The format of the first tournament was similar to the men's: preliminary round-robin games followed by a medal round playoff.\n\nBefore 1998, women's hockey had been dominated by Canada. Canadian teams had won every World Championship up to that point; however, by 1997, the American team had improved and was evenly matched with Canada. In thirteen games played between the two teams in 1997, Canada won seven and the United States won six. The 1998 Olympic tournament also included teams from Finland, Sweden, China and host Japan. Canada and the United States dominated the round-robin portion. In their head-to-head match, the United States overcame a 4–1 deficit to win 7–4. The two teams met in the final, which the United States won 3–1 to become the third American ice hockey team to win Olympic gold. Finland defeated China 4–1 to win the bronze medal.\nFor the 2002 Winter Olympics, the number of teams was increased to eight with Russia, Germany and Kazakhstan qualifying for the first time. The Canadian and American teams went undefeated in the first round and semi-finals, setting up a gold medal rematch that the Canadian team won 3–2. Following the game, members of the Canadian team accused the Americans of stomping on a Canadian flag in their dressing room, although an investigation later proved the rumour false. The Swedish team won the bronze medal over Finland 2–1, the nation's first in women's ice hockey.\n\nIn 2006, Sweden defeated the US in a shootout in the semifinals, marking the first time the US had lost to an opponent other than Canada. The upset drew comparisons to the Miracle on Ice from 1980. In the medal games, Canada defeated Sweden 4–1 to claim its second consecutive gold medal, while the Americans beat Finland 4–0 to win the bronze.\n\nIn 2010, eight teams participated, including Slovakia for the first time. In the gold medal game, Canada defeated the United States 2–0 to win their third consecutive gold. The Finnish team won the bronze medal over Sweden 3–2 OT, their first since 1998.\n\nThe future of international women's ice hockey was discussed at the World Hockey Summit in 2010, and dealt with how IIHF member associations could work together to grow the game and increase registration numbers, and the relative strength of the women's game in North America compared to the rest of the world. International Olympic Committee president Jacques Rogge stated that the women's hockey tournament might be eliminated from the Olympics since the event was not competitively balanced and was dominated by Canada and the United States. Team Canada captain Hayley Wickenheiser explained that the talent gap between the North American and European countries was due to the presence of women's professional leagues in North America, along with year-round training facilities. She stated the European players were talented, but their respective national team programs were not given the same level of support as the European men's national teams, or the North American women's national teams. She stressed the need for women to have their own professional league which would be for the benefit of international hockey. IIHF vice-president Murray Costello promised to invest $2-million towards developing international women's hockey.\n\nAt the 2014 Winter Olympics, Canada defeated the United States 3–2, as Marie-Philip Poulin scored at 8:10 of overtime to win their fourth consecutive gold, rebounding from a two-nothing deficit late in the game. With the win, Canadians Hayley Wickenheiser, Jayna Hefford and Caroline Ouellette became the first athletes to win four ice hockey gold medals. They also joined Soviet biathlete Alexander Tikhonov and German speedskater Claudia Pechstein as the only athletes to win gold medals in four straight Winter Olympics. In the bronze medal game Switzerland beat Sweden 4–3 to win their first women's medal.\n\nIn 2018, the United States defeated Canada for the gold medal in a shootout, winning 3–2. The Americans' winning the gold medal game marks the first time in 20 years that the United States took home a gold medal in women's hockey. They previously won in 1998 in Nagano, Japan, which was also against Canada. Canada's loss effectively ended their winning streak of four consecutive winter games, having won since 2002.\n\nThe 2022 edition will be played with ten teams.\n\nSince 1976, 12 teams have participated in the men's tournament, except in 1998 and 2002, when the number was raised to 14. The number of teams has ranged from 4 (in 1932) to 16 (in 1964). After the NHL allowed its players to compete at the 1998 Winter Olympics, the \"Big Six\" teams (Canada, the Czech Republic, Finland, Russia, Sweden and the United States) were given automatic qualification and byes to the final round. The number of teams was increased to 14 so that a preliminary round-robin tournament consisting of eight teams could be held. The top two teams from the preliminary round (Belarus and Kazakhstan) joined the \"Big Six\" in the finals. A similar system was used in 2002. For the following tournament, the number of teams was lowered to 12 so that all teams played fewer games. Qualification for the men's tournament at the 2010 Winter Olympics was structured around the 2008 IIHF World Ranking. Twelve spots were made available for teams. The top nine teams in the World Ranking after the 2008 Men's World Ice Hockey Championships received automatic berths. Teams ranked 19th through 30th played in a first qualification round in November 2008. The top three teams from the round advanced to the second qualification round, joined by teams ranked 10th through 18th. The top three teams from this round advanced to the Olympic tournament.\n\nThe women's tournament uses a similar qualification format. The top six teams in the IIHF Women's World Ranking after the 2008 Women's World Ice Hockey Championships received automatic berths. Teams ranked 13th and below were divided into two groups for a first qualification round in September 2008. The two group winners advanced to the second qualification round, where the teams ranked seventh through twelfth joined them.\n\nThe IIHF lists the following requirements for a player to be eligible to play in international tournaments:\n\n\nIf a player who has never played in an IIHF competition changes their citizenship, they must participate in national competitions in their new country for at least two consecutive years and have an international transfer card (ITC). If a player who has previously played in an IIHF tournament wishes to change their national team, they must have played in their new country for four years. A player can only do this once. The original IOC rules stated that an athlete that had already played for one nation could not later change nations under any circumstances.\n\nPierre de Coubertin, founder of the IOC, was influenced by the ethos of the aristocracy as exemplified in the English public schools. The public schools subscribed to the belief that sport formed an important part of education and there was a prevailing concept of fairness in which practicing or training was considered cheating. As class structure evolved through the 20th century, the definition of the amateur athlete as an aristocratic gentleman became outdated. The advent of the state-sponsored \"full-time amateur athlete\" of the Eastern Bloc countries further eroded the ideology of the pure amateur, as it put the self-financed amateurs of the Western countries at a disadvantage. The Soviet Union entered teams of athletes who were all nominally students, soldiers, or working in a profession, but many of whom were in reality paid by the state to train on a full-time basis. Nevertheless, the IOC held to the traditional rules regarding amateurism until 1988.\nNear the end of the 1960s, the Canadian Amateur Hockey Association (CAHA) felt their amateur players could no longer be competitive against the Soviet team's full-time athletes and the other constantly improving European teams. They pushed for the ability to use players from professional leagues but met opposition from the IIHF and IOC. At the IIHF Congress in 1969, the IIHF decided to allow Canada to use nine non-NHL professional hockey players at the 1970 World Championships in Montreal and Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada. The decision was reversed in January 1970 after IOC President Brundage said that ice hockey's status as an Olympic sport would be in jeopardy if the change was made. In response, Canada withdrew from international ice hockey competition and officials stated that they would not return until \"open competition\" was instituted. Günther Sabetzki became president of the IIHF in 1975 and helped to resolve the dispute with the CAHA. In 1976, the IIHF agreed to allow \"open competition\" between all players in the World Championships. However, NHL players were still not allowed to play in the Olympics, because of the unwillingness of the NHL to take a break mid-season and the IOC's amateur-only policy.\n\nBefore the 1984 Winter Olympics, a dispute formed over what made a player a professional. The IOC had adopted a rule that made any player who had signed an NHL contract but played less than ten games in the league eligible. However, the United States Olympic Committee maintained that any player contracted with an NHL team was a professional and therefore not eligible to play. The IOC held an emergency meeting that ruled NHL-contracted players were eligible, as long as they had not played in any NHL games. This made five players on Olympic rosters—one Austrian, two Italians and two Canadians—ineligible. Players who had played in other professional leagues—such as the World Hockey Association—were allowed to play. Canadian hockey official Alan Eagleson stated that the rule was only applied to the NHL and that professionally contracted players in European leagues were still considered amateurs. Murray Costello of the CAHA suggested that a Canadian withdrawal was possible. In 1986, the IOC voted to allow all athletes to compete in the Olympic Games starting in 1988.\n\nThe NHL decided not to allow all players to participate in 1988, 1992, 1994 and 2018 because the Winter Olympics typically occur in February, during the league's regular season. To allow participation, the NHL would have been forced to take a break in its schedule.\n\nIn 1992, National Basketball Association (NBA) players participated in the 1992 Summer Olympics. NHL commissioner Gary Bettman (an NBA executive in 1992) commented that the \"[NBA]'s worldwide awareness grew dramatically\". He hoped that NHL participation would \"get exposure like the world has never seen for hockey\". The typical NBA season is held in the winter and spring, so the Summer Olympics do not conflict with the regular season schedule. Bettman \"floated a concept of moving hockey to the Summer Games\", but this was rejected because of the Olympic Charter. In March 1995, Bettman, René Fasel, IOC president Juan Antonio Samaranch and NHLPA executive director Bob Goodenow met in Geneva, Switzerland. They reached an agreement that allowed NHL players to participate in the Olympics, starting with the 1998 Games in Nagano, Japan. The deal was officially announced by the NHL on 2 October 1995. Bettman said: \"We're doing this to build the game of hockey, pure and simple, we think whatever benefits are recouped, it will end up making this game bigger, stronger and healthier.\"\n\nThe 2004–05 NHL season was locked out and eventually cancelled because of a labour dispute between the league and its players. In January 2005, Bettman commented that he was hesitant to allow league participation in the Olympics because he did not like the idea of stopping play mid-season after the cancellation of the previous season. The lockout was resolved in July 2005 and the newly negotiated NHL Collective Bargaining Agreement allowed league participation in the 2006 and 2010 Winter Olympics. Some NHL team owners were against their players participating in the tournament because of concerns about injury or exhaustion. Philadelphia Flyers owner Ed Snider commented that \"I'm a believer in the Olympics and I think it's good for the NHL to participate, having said that, the people who participate should be the ones who are absolutely healthy.\" Some NHL players used the break as an opportunity to rest and did not participate in the tournament, and several players were injured during the Olympics and were forced to miss NHL games. Bettman said that several format changes were being discussed so that the tournament would be \"a little easier for everybody\".\nIt was originally thought that for NHL participating in the 2014 Winter Olympics a deal would have to be negotiated between the NHL and NHLPA in the Collective Bargaining Agreement. In January 2013, the NHL and NHLPA agreed on a new Collective Bargaining Agreement. However, the decision on NHL participation at the Olympics was later announced on 19 July 2013. As part of the deal, the NHL will go on break for 17 days during the Olympics and will send 13 on-ice officials to help with the Games. NHL management was hesitant to commit to the tournament; Bettman argued the Olympic break is a \"strain on the players, on the schedule and on fans\", adding that \"the benefits we get tend to be greater when the Olympics are in North America than when they're in distant time zones.\" According to Bettman, most of the NHL team owners agree with his position, and feel that the league does not receive enough benefits to justify the schedule break and risk of player injuries. René Fasel wants NHL participation and vowed that he would \"work day and night to have NHL players in Sochi\".\n\nAt an October 2008 press conference, then-NHLPA executive director Paul Kelly stated that the players want to return to the Olympics and would try to include the ability in the next agreement. Russian NHL players Alexander Ovechkin and Evgeni Malkin stated that they want to participate in the tournament and would do so without the permission of the NHL, if necessary. Paul Kelly also believed that the NHL's strained relationship with the Ice Hockey Federation of Russia and the Kontinental Hockey League (KHL) could affect participation. In a 2009 interview, KHL president Alexander Medvedev claimed that the unwillingness of NHL officials to immediately commit to the Sochi Games was \"an instrument of pressure\" to force a transfer agreement between the two leagues.\n\nA major sticking point over NHL participation has been the insurance of players; for the 2014 Winter Olympics, the IOC paid around US$7 million to insure NHL players participating in the Games. In April 2016, the IOC announced that beginning in 2018, it would no longer cover accommodations, insurance, or travel for NHL players in the Olympics, prompting the IIHF to ask for support from national ice hockey associations and National Olympic Committees to help cover costs; Matti Nurminen of the Finnish Ice Hockey Association argued that it was the responsibility of the event's organizer to cover costs, and that \"In our opinion, the same party should pay the bills, and that’s not us. All the countries replied to the IIHF that they are not willing to pay for the insurance or the travel or any of the other expenses that are related to having the NHL players participate in Pyeongchang.\" \"The New York Times\" felt that the removal of this financial support would put NHL participation at Pyeongchang in jeopardy, noting the already-strenuous relationship between the NHL and the IOC; Gary Bettman noted that the NHL does not profit from their presence, adding that \"in fact, we kind of disappear for two weeks because historically the IOC hasn't even let us join in promoting our participation in the Olympics.\"\n\nOn 3 April 2017, the NHL announced that it would not participate in the 2018 Winter Olympics. In that statement, the NHL said that it had been open to hearing from the IOC, the IIHF, and the players' association on ways to make Olympic participation more attractive to team owners, but no meaningful dialogue on that matter had materialized. As to reasons the Board of Governors might be interested in re-evaluating their strongly held views on the subject, the NHLPA \"confirmed that it has no interest or intention of engaging in any discussion that might make Olympic participation more attractive to the Clubs\", and that it would not schedule a break for the Olympics in the 2017–18 season.\n\nAlthough in the following months the president of the IIHF René Fasel tried to convince NHL to change its decision, in September he stated that there was no chance for participation of NHL players in the Pyeongchang olympic tournament. \"I can say that this is now gone. We can tick that off the list. We will have to look ahead to China and the Beijing 2022 winter Games because there is an interest of the league and we have noted that. But logistically it is practically impossible for Pyeongchang. That train has left the station\", he said. Some NHL players expressed their discontent with league's decision to skip the Olympics. Alexander Ovechkin, captain of the Washington Capitals: \"The Olympics are in my blood and everybody knows how much I love my country\", adding that \"he would compete with Russia if he were the only NHL player to travel to South Korea\". “It’s brutal, [...] I don’t think there’s any reason we shouldn’t be going”, said Justin Faulk, 2014 Olympian and alternate captain for the Carolina Hurricanes. Eventually, the NHL players followed the league's decision and stayed in their clubs during the 2018 Olympics\n\nAt the first tournament in 1920, there were many differences from the modern game: games were played outdoors on natural ice, forward passes were not allowed, the rink (which had been intended to be used only for figure skating) was 56 m × 18 m (165 ft × 58.5 ft) and two 20-minute periods were played. Each team had seven players on the ice, the extra position being the rover. Following the tournament, the IIHF held a congress and decided to adopt the Canadian rules—six men per side and three periods of play.\n\nThe tournaments follow the rules used by the IIHF. At the 1969 IIHF Congress, officials voted to allow body-checking in all three zones in a rink similar to the NHL; it's prohibited for women. Before that, body-checking was only allowed in the defending zone in international hockey Several other rule changes were implemented in the early 1970s: players were required to wear helmets starting in 1970, and goaltender masks became mandatory in 1972. In 1992, the IIHF switched to using a playoff system to determine medalists and decided that tie games in the medal round would be decided in a shootout. In 1998, the IIHF passed a rule that allowed two-line passes. Before then, the neutral zone trap had slowed the game down and reduced scoring.\n\nThe current IIHF rules differ slightly from the rules used in the NHL. One difference between NHL and IIHF rules is standard rink dimensions: the NHL rink is narrower, measuring 61 m × 26 m (200 ft × 85 ft), instead of the international size of 61 m × 30.5 m (200 ft × 100 ft) The larger international size allows for a faster and less physical style of play. Another rule difference between the NHL and the IIHF rules concerns how icing is called. In the NHL, a linesman stops play due to icing if a defending player (other than the goaltender) is not behind an attacking player in the race to the end-zone faceoff dots in his defensive zone, in contrast to the IIHF rules in which play is stopped the moment the puck crosses the goal line. The NHL and IIHF also differ in penalty rules. The NHL calls five-minute major penalties for more dangerous infractions of the rules, such as fighting, in addition to the minor and double minor penalties called in IIHF games. This is in contrast to the IIHF rule, by which players who fight risk a game misconduct & major penalties. Beginning with the 2005–06 season, the NHL instituted several new rules. Some were already used by the IIHF, such as the shootout and the two-line pass. Others were not picked up by the IIHF, such as those requiring smaller goaltender equipment and the addition of the goaltender trapezoid to the rink. However, the IIHF did agree to follow the NHL's zero-tolerance policy on obstruction and required referees to call more hooking, holding, and interference penalties.\n\nEach team is allowed to have between 15 and 20 skaters (forwards and defencemen) and two or three goaltenders, all of whom must be citizens of the nation they play for.\n\nThe IIHF follows the World Anti-Doping Agency's (WADA) regulations on performance-enhancing drugs. The IIHF maintains a Registered Testing Pool, a list of top players who are subjected to random in-competition and out-of-competition drug tests. According to the WADA, a positive in-competition test results in disqualification of the player and a suspension that varies based on the number of offences. When a player tests positive, the rest of their team is subjected to testing; another positive test can result in a disqualification of the entire team.\n\nIn late 2005, two NHL players who had been listed as potential Olympians failed drug tests administered by the WADA. Bryan Berard tested positive for 19-Norandrosterone. José Théodore failed a drug test because he was taking Propecia, a hair loss medication that contains the non-performance-enhancing drug Finasteride. Both players received two-year bans from international competition, although neither had made their team's final roster. On 6 December 2017 six Russian women ice hockey players were disqualified for doping violations. Results of the Russian women's team at the 2014 Winter Olympics were made void. Two other Russian players, Tatiana Burina and Anna Shukina, were also disqualified ten days later.\n\nKey\nMen:\nWomen:\n\nIn 1920, medals were decided by the Bergvall system, games between the medal winning nations are shown. 1924 through 1988, medals were decided in the round-robin, games between the medal winning nations are shown.\n\nThe following is a list of the on-ice officials for the men's gold medal game beginning in 1920 and again from 1992 when such game was reintroduced. The editions in which National Hockey League players participated – from 1998 to 2014 – were primarily officiated by NHL officials.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1855221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855221", "title": "Styles of Beyond", "text": "Styles of Beyond\n\nStyles of Beyond is an underground hip hop group from the San Fernando Valley of Los Angeles, California. The group consists of MCs Ryan Patrick Maginn (Ryu) and Takbir Bashir (Tak), Colton Raisin Fisher (DJ Cheapshot), and producer Jason Rabinowitz (Vin Skully). They have released two LPs, one mixtape and were heavily featured on Mike Shinoda's Fort Minor project in 2005. At one point they were also signed to Shinoda's Machine Shop Recordings label, although they left the label in late 2008. They are also heavily associated with the underground rap group Demigodz which features similar underground artists such as Apathy, Celph Titled, and 7L & Esoteric.\n\nAfter making some pre-Ryu demos on a 4-track cassette recorder, Styles of Beyond started making appearances on Sway & King Tech's The Wake Up Show, a hip hop radio program featuring established and up-and-coming rappers. In the late 1990s, the group met longtime collaborator and friend Mike Shinoda, who would later become the co-creator and co-vocalist of Linkin Park. The group eventually released two independent studio albums, \"2000 Fold\" (1998), and \"Megadef\" (2003).\n\nStyles of Beyond was later announced by Shinoda to feature on his solo hip hop record under the name Fort Minor, \"The Rising Tied\", which was released on November 22, 2005. The group appeared on seven songs on the album, and appeared on the album's singles \"Remember the Name\" and \"Believe Me\". The group joined Fort Minor on tour in promotion of the album. After touring for \"The Rising Tied\", Styles of Beyond was signed onto Shinoda's label Machine Shop Recordings, as well as its parent label Warner Bros. Records, their first major label. The group was later added to the lineup of Linkin Park's 2007 Projekt Revolution tour, featured on the Revolution Stage.\n\nStyles of Beyond released a mixtape on July 31, 2007, entitled \"Razor Tag\", presented and mixed by DJ Green Lantern. \"Razor Tag\" was the group's first release under Machine Shop and Warner Bros. The group completed their third studio album, \"Reseda Beach\", with announced guest rappers RZA, Apathy, Celph Titled, Sixx John, and Mike Shinoda. The album was produced by the group, as well as Shinoda, J Dilla and Scoop DeVille. One of the album's songs, \"Second to None\", which features Shinoda, was included in the of the 2007 film \"Transformers\". \"Second to None\" was also featured in promos for the television shows \"Prison Break\" and \"K-Ville\", as well as the trailer for the 2008 film \"You Don't Mess with the Zohan\". The group also made a cameo appearance in the music video for \"We Made It\" by Busta Rhymes and Linkin Park, which was released on April 29, 2008.\n\nOn September 25, 2008, Styles of Beyond released their contract with Machine Shop Recordings with full ownership of their \"Reseda Beach\" record, which they plan to release under Dirty Version Records, which was manned by close friends and Demigodz members Apathy and Celph Titled. \"Reseda Beach\" served as the first release of Dirty Version. Since 2008, Ryu, Apathy and Scoop DeVille formed a new rap group by the name of the \"Get Busy Committee\". they released their first album \"Uzi Does It\" on October 27, 2009. Tak has also formed a solo group along with singer Josy B called \"Ribkat\" (which is \"Takbir\" spelled backwards, Takbir Bashir being Tak's real name). They plan on releasing an album entitled \"Theory of Addicts\" in December 2009.\n\nRyu stated recently in an interview with LPLive that the current status of Styles of Beyond is unknown. in the interview he stated \"The Warner thing I think mentally exhausted everybody, I think it was just time to do something fresh and new. Business wise and creatively. The status of the group is unknown at this point. It just felt like we were beating a dead horse after a while.\"\n\nRecently, during a fan chat, Ryu revealed that a completed version of \"Reseda Beach\" exists. The first track from \"Reseda Beach\" leaked in early September 2012, named \"Damn\" and featuring guest vocals from fellow Warner Bros. recording artist Michael Bublé. \"Reseda Beach\" was eventually available for pre-order on the Demigodz store in the same month, including the track \"The Pirate Song\" on SoundCloud. The album was released on October 23, 2012. In November 2014, Ryu tweeted that Styles of Beyond is still active and, along with Divine Styler, will be undertaking a Canadian tour. In November 2017, Ryu tweeted a screenshot of a conversation with Tak with the duo planning another album.\n\nGrant Mohrman did a remix of the \"Megadef\" track \"Superstars\" called \"Nine Thou\" which was featured in the games \"WWE Day of Reckoning\", \"WWE SmackDown vs. RAW\", \"\", on the film \"Real Steel\", and on the TV show \"Prison Break\". The song \"Subculture\" (from the unreleased album Terraform) was featured in \"Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 2\". Styles of Beyond collaborated with Celldweller for a track entitled \"Shapeshifter\" which appeared on the soundtrack for the movie \"Redline\" and also \"\".\n\nStyles of Beyond has collaborated with SpyTech artists: Lexicon, Sandman, 4-Zone, and Divine Styler. They have also collaborated with: Awol One, The Crystal Method, and Ryu and Tak performed \"Points of Authority\" live with Linkin Park in 2001 at the House of Blues.\n\nOn December 17, 2007, it was revealed that DJ Cheapshot and Vin Skully had been chosen and hired to complete the entire score for the upcoming A&E original series \"L.A. Gang Unit\", which was slated for an April 2008 release, but has yet to be released. DJ Cheapshot opened his own bar called \"Cheapshot's\", which is located in Long Beach, California. Ryu was featured along with Bishop Lamont on the track \"Dirty Girl Part 2\" by Rob Dyrdek (Bobby Light). This song is available on iTunes and was performed with Blink-182 drummer Travis Barker in Las Vegas. It also was featured on \"Rob Dyrdek's Fantasy Factory\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1855223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855223", "title": "Serbian salad", "text": "Serbian salad\n\nSerbian salad is a vegetable salad, usually served during summer with roast meat and other dishes. It is made from diced fresh tomatoes, cucumber and onions, usually seasoned with sunflower oil or olive oil, salt and commonly with a variety of hot pepper similar to cayenne pepper and called \"feferon\". It is similar to the traditional salads of other Balkan countries and the Eastern Mediterranean, such as Greek salad, Arab salad and Israeli salad.\n\n"}
{"id": "1855225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855225", "title": "Yakutia Airlines", "text": "Yakutia Airlines\n\nYakutia Airlines ( – \"Aviakompanija «Jakutija»\" \"Air Company \"Yakutia\"\") is an airline based in Yakutsk, Sakha Republic, Russia. It operates domestic passenger services in Russia and within the Commonwealth of Independent States, as well as destinations in Europe, Asia, and North America from its hubs at Yakutsk Airport and Moscow's Vnukovo Airport. The airline is founded in 2002, and is owned by government of the Republic of Sakha.\n\nThe airline was founded as Sakha Avia, the former Aeroflot Yakutsk Division and also previously known as Yakutaviatrans. It operated cargo charters to Africa, Asia, Europe and the Middle East until it filed for bankruptcy in early 1999. It emerged in 2000 and is controlled by the regional government, Neryungri State Air Enterprise. It merged with Yakutavia in 2002 and changed its name to form Yakutia Airlines.\n\nAs of March 2015, Yakutia Airlines operates more than 55 flights.\nThe Yakutia Airlines fleet comprises the following aircraft ():\n\nAt the 2019 MAKS Air Show, at Zhukovsky International Airport, Moscow, Yakutia Airlines signed a tentative agreement for 5 Irkut MC-21 aircraft. Delivery of the new aircraft was expected to be in the second half of 2021.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1855230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855230", "title": "Ward McAllister", "text": "Ward McAllister\n\nSamuel Ward McAllister (December 28, 1827 – January 31, 1895) was a popular arbiter of social taste in the Gilded Age of late 19th-century America. He was widely accepted as the authority as to which families could be classified as the cream of New York society (the Four Hundred). But his listings were also questioned by those excluded from them, and his own personal motives of self-aggrandisement were noted.\n\nBorn Samuel Ward McAllister to a socially prominent Savannah, Georgia judicial family. His parents were Matthew Hall McAllister (1800–1865) and Louisa Charlotte (née Cutler) McAllister (1801–1869).\n\nThrough his maternal aunt, Julia Rush Cutler, and her husband, Samuel Ward, he was a first cousin of Julia Ward Howe and Samuel Cutler Ward, the lobbyist whose first wife Emily Astor had been the daughter of William Backhouse Astor Sr. and a granddaughter of John Jacob Astor. His maternal grandparents were Benjamin Clark Cutler, Norfolk County Sheriff, and Sarah (née Mitchell) Cutler.\n\nIn 1850, McAllister traveled to California with his father during the Gold Rush and became one of the partners in the law firm of \"McAllister & Sons.\" He used the earnings from his legal prowess to journey throughout Europe's great cities and spas—Bath, Pau, Bad Nauheim, and the like—where he observed the mannerisms of the titled nobility.\n\nUpon his return to the United States, McAllister settled in New York City with his wife in 1852. Using his wife's wealth and his own social connections, McAllister sought to become a tastemaker amongst New York's \"Knickerbocracy\", a collection of old merchant and landowning families who traced their lineage back to the days of colonial New Amsterdam. Above all in McAllister's life was his desire for social recognition by what he termed the \"\"Ton\",\" i. e. the cream of society.\n\nAlthough purported to be an index of New York's best families, McAllister's list was suspiciously top-heavy with nouveau riche industrialists and McAllister's southern allies, seeking a new start in the nation's financial capital after the American Civil War. In his glory, McAllister referred to his patroness, Mrs. Caroline Astor (\"The\" Mrs. Astor), as his \"Mystic Rose\". McAllister was an early summer colonist of Newport, Rhode Island, and was largely responsible for turning the simple seaside resort into a Mecca for the pleasure-seeking, status-conscious rich of the Gilded Age. His gift for party and picnic planning soon made him a society darling.\n\nAmong the undesirables McAllister endeavored to exclude from the charmed circle of the Four Hundred were the many nouveau riche Midwesterners who poured into New York seeking social recognition. In 1893, McAllister wrote a column about the 1893 World's Columbian Exposition in which he urged that if Chicago society hostesses wanted to be taken seriously, they should hire French chefs and \"not frappé their wine too much.\" The \"Chicago Journal\" replied, \"The mayor will not frappé his wine too much. He will frappé it just enough so the guests can blow the foam off the tops of the glasses without a vulgar exhibition of lung and lip power. His ham sandwiches, sinkers, and ... pigs' feet, will be triumphs of the gastronomic art.\"\n\nMcAllister's downfall came when he published a book of memoirs entitled \"Society as I Have Found It\" in 1890. The book, and his hunger for media attention, did little to endear him to the old guard, who valued their privacy in an era when millionaires were the equivalent of modern movie stars.\n\nMcAllister coined the phrase \"The Four Hundred\" by declaring that there were \"only 400 people in fashionable New York Society.\" According to him, this was the number of people in New York who really mattered; the people who felt at ease in the ballrooms of high society (\"If you go outside that number,\" he warned, \"you strike people who are either not at ease in a ballroom or else make other people not at ease.\"). The number was popularly supposed to be the capacity of Mrs William Backhouse Astor Jr.'s ballroom. The lavish parties were held at the Astor mansion.\n\nOn February 16, 1892, McAllister named the official list of The Four Hundred in \"The New York Times\". \"The Four Million\", the title of a book by O. Henry, was a reaction to this phrase, expressing O. Henry's opinion that \"every\" human being in New York was worthy of notice.\n\nIn 1872, McAllister founded the \"Society of Patriarchs\" which was a group of 25 gentlemen from New York Society. The group of 25 were \"representative men of worth, respectability, and responsibility.\" Beginning with the 1885-1886 season, the Patriarchs threw a ball each year, known as the Patriarchs Ball, which each member was entitled to invite four ladies and five gentlemen to, thereby establishing the invitees as fit for society. The first Patriarchs Ball was held at Delmonico's, with the Balls, which were difficult to obtain invitations to, receiving significant press coverage. The Patriarchs Ball inspired similar balls, including the Ihpetonga Ball, which was considered \"the most important social event of the season in Brooklyn.\"\n\nThe Society dissolved two years after McAllister's death in 1897 due to a lack of interest.\n\nIn 1852, McAllister married a Georgia born heiress who was then living in Madison, New Jersey, Sarah Taintor Gibbons (1829–1909), the daughter of William Gibbons (1794–1852) and Abigail Louisa (née Taintor) Gibbons (1791–1844). Her grandfather was politician, lawyer, and steamboat owner Thomas Gibbons. Her father built the Gibbons Mansion in Madison, which her brother sold to Daniel Drew after their father's death, and which Drew donated to found Drew Theological Seminary (now known as Drew University). Together, they were the parents of:\n\n\nIn disgrace, McAllister died while dining alone at New York's Union Club, in January 1895. His funeral, held on February 5, 1895, was well attended by many society figures of the day, including Chauncey Depew and Cornelius Vanderbilt II. McAllister is interred at Green-Wood Cemetery in Brooklyn, New York. In 1907, Sarah was described as having been an invalid for 25 years. \n\n"}
{"id": "1855236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855236", "title": "400 (disambiguation)", "text": "400 (disambiguation)\n\n400 may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1855237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855237", "title": "List of hoaxes", "text": "List of hoaxes\n\nThe following are lists of hoaxes:\n\nThese are some claims that have been revealed, or proven definitively, to be deliberate public hoaxes. This list does not include hoax articles published on or around April 1, a long list of which can be found in the \"List of April Fools' Day jokes\" article.\n\n\n\n\n\n\"Proven hoaxes of exposure\" are semi-comical or private sting operations. They usually encourage people to act foolishly or credulously by falling for patent nonsense that the hoaxer deliberately presents as reality. See also \"culture jamming\".\n\n\nDeliberate hoaxes, or journalistic fraud, that drew widespread attention include:\n\n\n\n"}
