{"id": "1812250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812250", "title": "List of fraternities and sororities at Dalhousie University", "text": "List of fraternities and sororities at Dalhousie University\n\nThe fraternities and sororities of Dalhousie University are well established and active in the Halifax community. Despite their relative prominence, though, none are officially recognized as Dalhousie student societies. This can be attributed to the non-discrimination policy adopted by the Dalhousie Student Union (DSU), which stipulates that societies may not bar any student from membership based on gender or sex, which is inherently part of the culture of fraternities and sororities found at Dalhousie and elsewhere. Some fraternities, like Phi Chi Medical Fraternity at Dalhousie, allow both sexes to become members. \n\nIn an effort to remain active and unified on campus, a number of fraternities and sororities collectively formed the Greek Council, which due to the joint presence of males and females in its membership was able to become a ratified society under the DSU.\n\nThe following is a list of fraternities and sororities with a presence at Dalhousie:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1812252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812252", "title": "Sebastian Spence", "text": "Sebastian Spence\n\nSebastian Spence (born December 9, 1969) is a Canadian actor. He played the lead role of Cade Foster in the Space Channel science fiction television series, \"First Wave\" (1998–2001). \n\nSpence was born in St. John's, Newfoundland to Michael Cook and Janis Spence, both playwrights. His first professional acting job was at age 16, in a play written by his mother.\n\nSpence's first on-camera role was in second part of the Canadian television miniseries, \"The Boys of St. Vincent\", which was well-received by critics. His next role was in the trilogy of \"A Family of Cops\" television movies with Charles Bronson, playing Eddie Fein the younger son of Bronson's character.\n\nSpence's first film role was in the futuristic \"Anchor Zone\", which was filmed in his native Newfoundland. performed in a substantial role in the film \"Drive, She Said\" in 1997; the film's storyline and staging were criticized by reviewers. Spence's first leading role was as Cade Foster, in the Space Channel (and later Sci-Fi Channel) original series, \"First Wave\", which ran between 1998 and 2001. \n\nSpence played the role of Cliff Harting on the Hallmark Channel drama \"Cedar Cove\", between 2013 and 2015.\n\n"}
{"id": "1812255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812255", "title": "Wealden (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Wealden (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nWealden is a constituency represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament since 2015 by Nus Ghani, a Conservative. Ghani was the first Muslim woman to be elected as a Conservative member of Parliament.\n\nThis seat was created in the third periodic review of constituencies in 1983, from a mixture of the previous Mid and Northern divisions of the county (also known as Lewes and East Grinstead).\n\nThe seat's history is that of a safe Conservative seat. Before the 2015 election, the Liberal Democrats, including their two predecessor parties, were represented by the main opposition candidate, but they then fell to fourth place. The best result for the Labour Party was in 2017, though it was 39% below the winning vote share.\n\nLocally born Charles Hendry served as a Minister of State in the Department of Energy and Climate Change from 2010-2012 following two years in the shadow role in opposition.\n\n1983–1997: The District of Wealden wards of Buxted, Chiddingly and East Hoathly, Crowborough East, Crowborough North, Crowborough West, Danehill, Fletching, Forest Row, Framfield, Frant, Hailsham Central and North, Hailsham East, Hailsham South and West, Hartfield, Heathfield, Hellingly, Horam, Maresfield, Mayfield, Rotherfield, Uckfield, Wadhurst, Waldron, and Withyam.\n\n1997–2010: The District of Wealden wards of Buxted, Chiddingly and East Hoathly, Crowborough East, Crowborough North, Crowborough St John's, Crowborough West, Danehill, Fletching, Forest Row, Framfield, Frant, Hailsham Central and North, Hailsham East, Hailsham South and West, Hartfield, Heathfield, Hellingly, Horam, Maresfield, Mayfield, Rotherfield, Uckfield, Wadhurst, Waldron, and Withyam.\n\n2010–present: The District of Wealden wards of Buxted and Maresfield, Chiddingly and East Hoathly, Crowborough East, Crowborough Jarvis Brook, Crowborough North, Crowborough St John's, Crowborough West, Danehill/Fletching/Nutley, Forest Row, Framfield, Frant/Withyham, Hailsham Central and North, Hailsham East, Hailsham South and West, Hartfield, Hellingly, Horam, Mayfield, Rotherfield, Uckfield Central, Uckfield New Town, Uckfield North, Uckfield Ridgewood, and Wadhurst.\n\nApproximately half of the population in the constituency lives in the area’s three main towns: Crowborough, Hailsham and Uckfield. The rest of the seat is predominantly rural and has many small towns, villages and hamlets. The Wealden landscape is varied, ranging from the Ashdown Forest in the north to the South Downs and the coastal part is included in seats to the south.\n\nThe constituency covers much of the Wealden district of East Sussex. However, some of the district in the south falls into the constituencies of Lewes, Bexhill and Battle and Eastbourne.\n\nA considerable portion of the population is retired or work in London, Brighton or other regional employment bases at a managerial or advanced professional level. Workless claimants who were registered jobseekers were in November 2012 significantly lower than the national average of 3.8%, at 1.5% of the population based on a statistical compilation by \"The Guardian\".\n\nThis constituency underwent boundary changes between the 1992 and 1997 general elections and thus change in share of vote is based on a notional calculation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1812258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812258", "title": "Testimony of equality", "text": "Testimony of equality\n\nA testimony of equality is an act, usage, or course of conduct by a member of the Religious Society of Friends (Quakers) tending to assert or promote equality of persons, arising from the Friends' belief that all people are equal in the eyes of God. The word \"testimony\" describes the way that Friends \"testify\" or \"bear witness\" to their beliefs in their everyday life. A \"testimony\" is therefore not a \"belief\", but is committed action arising out of Friends' religious experience. Testimony of equality has included Quakers' participating in actions that promote the equality of the sexes and races, as well as other classifications of people.\n\nFriends believe that all people are equal in the eyes of God. Since all people embody the same divine spark all people deserve equal treatment. Friends were some of the first to value women as important ministers and to campaign for women's rights; they became leaders in the anti-slavery movement, and were among the first to pioneer humane treatment for individuals with mental disorders, and for prisoners.\n\nQuakers hold a strong sense of spiritual egalitarianism, including a belief in the spiritual equality of the sexes. From the beginning both women and men were granted equal authority to speak in meetings for worship. Margaret Fell-Fox was as vocal and literate as her husband, George Fox, publishing several tracts in the early days of Quakerism. Early Friends argued that inequality between men and women arose from the Fall from the Garden of Eden, but that since Christ has come to redeem our sins, this inequality should no longer stand. For example, George Fox wrote in 1674:\n\nFriends' attitude towards egalitarianism is also demonstrated by their refusal to practice \"hat honour\" (Quakers refused to take their hats off or bow to anyone regardless of title or rank), and their rejection of styles and titles (such as Mr, Mrs, Lord, Dr, etc.), simply calling everyone by their first and last name only (i.e. \"John Smith\" rather than \"Mr Smith\" or \"Sir John\"). This testified to the Friends' understanding that, in the eyes of God, there was no hierarchy based on birth, wealth, or political power—such honours they reserved only for God. This practice was not considered by Friends to be anti-authoritarian in nature, but instead as a rebuke against human pretense and ego.\n\nToday, resistance to \"hat honour\" does not prevail as it once did—most hat customs are not practiced in contemporary daily life—and the individual Friend is left to decide whether or not to practice \"hat honour\" as a matter of conscience.\n\nFriends were some of the first to value women as spiritual ministers. Elizabeth Hooton was possibly the first person to be convinced by George Fox and was an outspoken and daring preacher during the earliest days of the movement. Margaret Fell was another early leader of the Friends movement. The first two people who went to what is now the United States to promote the Quaker Faith were Mary Fisher and Ann Austin.\n\nAt one time it was common for male and female Quakers to have separate Meetings for Business. This practice was considered to give the women more power and was not meant to demean them. During the 18th century, some Quakers felt that women were not participating fully in Meetings for Business as most women would not \"nay-say\" their husbands. The solution was to form the two separate Meetings for Business. Many Quaker meeting houses were built with a movable divider down the middle. During Meetings for Worship, the divider was raised. During Business meetings the divider was lowered, creating two rooms. Each gender ran their own separate business meetings. Any issue which required the consent of the whole meeting—building repairs for example—would involve sending an emissary to the other meeting. This practice continued until there was no longer a concern over whether women would \"nay-say\" their husbands; some very old meetinghouses still have this divider, although it likely is nonmovable.\n\nIn addition, many of the leaders in the women's suffrage movement in the United States in the 19th century were drawn from the Quakers, including Susan B. Anthony and Lucretia Mott.\n\nFriends also eventually became leaders in the anti-slavery movement, although a realization of the wrongness of slavery did not develop for almost a century. In the 18th century John Woolman began to stir the conscience of Friends concerning the owning of slaves. Some, such as Benjamin Lay, used immoderate tracts and shock tactics to encourage speedy rejection of both slave ownership and participation in the slave trade. \n\nIn 1776, the Philadelphia Yearly Meeting (the most important yearly meeting in USA at the time) prohibited members from owning slaves, and on February 11, 1790, Friends petitioned the U.S. Congress for the abolition of slavery. American Friends were prominent participants in the Underground Railroad, a transportation network for sending escaped slaves to freedom.\n\nQuakers were among the first to pioneer humane treatment for the mentally ill, with The Retreat, in York, England, an asylum set up by William Tuke (1732–1822) as a reaction to the harsh nature of 18th century asylum care.\n\nIn the 19th Century Elizabeth Fry and her brother, Joseph John Gurney, campaigned for the humane treatment of prisoners. Fry went into prisons herself to provide food, blankets, education, and other assistance to the prisoners. They were able to persuade Members of Parliament to pass reform legislation to improve prison conditions. They also were able to influence legislation that reduced the number of crimes that were punishable by death.\n\nIn the 1960s, a Friend, Eric Baker, took part in the founding of Amnesty International, a human rights group primarily focused on the treatment of those in prison and those accused of crimes. It is not directly connected with the Religious Society of Friends but has similar ideals as those derived from the Testimony of Equality.\n\n"}
{"id": "1812268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812268", "title": "How Much Land Does a Man Need?", "text": "How Much Land Does a Man Need?\n\n\"How Much Land Does a Man Require?\" (Russian: Много ли человеку земли нужно?, \"Mnogo li cheloveku zemli nuzhno?\") is an 1886 short story by Leo Tolstoy about a man who, in his lust for land, forfeits everything.\n\nThe protagonist of the story is a peasant named Pahom, who overhears his wife and sister-in-law argue over the merits of town and peasant farm life. He thinks to himself \"if I had plenty of land, I shouldn't fear the Devil himself!\". Unbeknownst to him, Satan is present sitting behind the stove and listening. Satan abruptly accepts his challenge and also tells that he would give Pahom more land and then snatch everything from him. A short time later, a landlady in the village decides to sell her estate, and the peasants of the village buy as much of that land as they can. Pahom himself purchases some land, and by working on the extra land is able to repay his debts and live a more comfortable life.\n\nHowever, Pahom then becomes very possessive of his land, and this causes arguments with his neighbors. \"Threats to burn his building began to be uttered.\" Later, he moves to a larger area of land at another Commune. Here, he can grow even more crops and amass a small fortune, but he has to grow the crops on rented land, which irritates him.\nFinally, after buying and selling a lot of fertile and good land, he is introduced to the Bashkirs, and is told that they are simple-minded people who own a huge amount of land. Pahom goes to them to buy as much of their land for as low a price as he can negotiate. Their offer is very unusual: for a sum of one thousand rubles, Pahom can walk around as large an area as he wants, starting at daybreak, marking his route with a spade along the way. If he returns to his starting point by sunset that day, all the land his route encloses will be his, but if he does not reach his starting point, he will lose his money and receive no land. He is delighted, as he believes that he can cover a great distance and has chanced upon the bargain of a lifetime. That night, Pahom experiences a surreal dream in which he sees himself lying dead by the feet of the Devil, who is laughing.\n\nHe stays out as late as possible, marking out land until just before the sun sets. Toward the end, he realizes he is far from the starting point and runs back as fast as he can to the waiting Bashkirs. He finally arrives at the starting point just as the sun sets. The Bashkirs cheer his good fortune, but exhausted from the run, Pahom drops dead. His servant buries him in an ordinary grave only six feet long, thus answering the question posed in the title of the story.\n\nLate in life, James Joyce wrote to his daughter that it is \"the greatest story that the literature of the world knows\"; Ludwig Wittgenstein was another well-known admirer. Motifs from the short story are used in the 1969 West German film \"\" directed by Hans-Jürgen Syberberg.\n\n - a collection including \"How Much Land Does a Man Need?\"\n"}
{"id": "1812270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812270", "title": "Samoan tālā", "text": "Samoan tālā\n\nThe tālā is the currency of Samoa. It is divided into 100 \"sene\". The terms \"tālā\" and \"sene\" are the equivalents or transliteration of the English words \"dollar\" and \"cent\", in the Samoan language.\n\nThe tālā was introduced on 10 July 1967, following the country's political independence from New Zealand in 1962. Until that time, Samoa had used the pound, with coins from New Zealand and its own banknotes. The tālā replaced the pound at a rate of 2 tālā = 1 pound and was, therefore, equal to the New Zealand dollar. The tālā remained equal to the New Zealand dollar until 1975.\n\nThe symbol WS$ is still used for the tālā, representing the country's previous name Western Samoa, used up to 1997, when the word \"Western\" was officially removed and the country became known as just \"Samoa\". Therefore, the symbol SAT, ST and T appear to be in use as well.\n\nSometimes figures are written with the dollar sign in front, followed by \"tālā\". e.g. $100 tālā.\n\nThe Samoan currency is issued and regulated by the Central Bank of Samoa.\n\nPrior to 1967, New Zealand coins were used in Western Samoa, circulating alongside locally issued and New Zealand banknotes.\n\nIn 1967, five and a half years after independence, new coins and notes were introduced replacing the New Zealand Pound as the official currency. Coins were introduced in denominations of 1, 2, 5, 10, 20 50 sene and $1 in equal size to the coins of New Zealand. 1 and 2 sene coins were struck in bronze, while the higher denominations were struck in cupro-nickel. All featured the national emblem on the reverse and the Head of State Malietoa Tanumafili on the obverse.\n\nIn 1974, a new coin series was introduced, designed by James Bass with a theme centered on locally grown food plants. The edges of the 50 cent coin were also changed from alternating plain and reeded to only reeded. In 1984, a seven-sided 1 tālā coin was introduced in aluminum bronze to replace the note. The coin depicted the state emblem on the reverse. Although $1 tālā pieces had been introduced in earlier years, this coin's bulky size and weight along with the favored use of the equivalent banknote never saw to popular and widespread use.\n\nIn 2000, a commemorative 2 Sene coin was released commemorating the 21st century with an FAO theme.\n\nThe 1974–2011 series featured as follows:\n\nIn 2011, the 1 and 2 and 5 sene coins were withdrawn from circulation as production costs exceeded production and their use in circulation had diminished significantly over the years. A new coin series was also introduced with reduced sizes and new shapes to reduce production costs and to reflect a more modern, streamlined Samoa. The new coins feature the current head of state and are themed around local culture. The new coin series also includes a new scalloped edge $2 tālā struck in bronze plated steel intended to replace the note. The $1 tālā is also struck in bronze plated steel and retains its original seven-sided shape but smaller. The reduced 5, 10, 20, and 50 sene are struck in nickel-plated steel. As Samoan coins are prone to heavy wear and use, the designs and composition were also studied and chosen with this in mind.\n\nThe 2011-series depict as follows:\n\nThese coins have been struck at the Royal Australian Mint in Canberra.\n\nPound and shilling treasury notes were issued from 1920 to 1963 as the Western Samoan pound at par with the New Zealand pound.\n\nBanknotes of the Western Samoa Trust Territory, now the Independent State of Samoa, were issued by the Authority of the New Zealand Government, which governed the islands up until 1962. In 1915, the first provisional notes (dated 1914, but issued 1915) were issued by the New Zealand Occupying Military force. These were overprinted one pound and five pound notes of the Bank of New Zealand signed by Lt. Colonel Logan and overprinted 10 shillings notes were added in 1920. In 1922, Treasury Notes were issued “by the authority of the New Zealand Government” in denominations of 10 shillings and one and five pounds. They were issued until 1961 when the Bank of Western Samoa took over paper money issuance. Its first issues were overprints on the Treasury Notes. In 1963, regular type notes were introduced in the same denominations.\n\nAfter independence, finance was taken over by the new government and a new currency called the tālā was issued. Tālā banknotes were first issued in 1967 in denominations of 1, 5, and 10 tālā by the \"Bank of Western Samoa.\" In 1980, a 5 tālā note was issued shortly after the \"Monetary Board of Western Samoa\" was formulated.\n\nBeginning in 1985, the new Central Bank of Samoa followed issued notes like the preceding issue from the Monetary Board of Western Samoa, but with the new issuer’s name in both Samoan and English. The 1-tālā note was discontinued, and new denominations of 50- and 100-tālā were issued in 1990.\n\nOn 29 September 1991, a 2-tālā note was issued to commemorate the Golden Jubilee (50th anniversary) of Malietoa Tanumafili II as head of state. It was the first and only fully polymer note issued by Samoa. These were withdrawn in 2011 and replaced with the 2-tālā coin.\n\nIn 2008 a new series in denominations of 5-100 tālā produced by De La Rue was introduced with brighter colours, new security features, and modern designs.\n\nThe two highest denominations (50 and 100 tālā) are protected with De La Rue's Optiks security thread which features a see-through window.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1812274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812274", "title": "Fort Victoria (British Columbia)", "text": "Fort Victoria (British Columbia)\n\nFort Victoria began as a fur trading post of the Hudson’s Bay Company and was the headquarters of HBC operations in the Columbia District, a large fur trading area now part of the province of British Columbia, Canada and the U.S. state of Washington. Construction of Fort Victoria in 1843 highlighted the beginning of a permanent British settlement now known as Victoria, the capital city of British Columbia. The fort itself was demolished in November 1864 as the town continued to grow as a commercial centre serving the local area as well as trading with California, Washington Territory, the United Kingdom, and others.\n\nFort Victoria was designated a National Historic Site of Canada in 1924.\n\nThe original headquarters of HBC operations on the Pacific Coast of North America at the time of Victoria's founding was Fort Vancouver (now Vancouver, Washington) on the lower Columbia River, but its location was difficult to defend, ships often had difficulty entering the mouth of the Columbia, and it was far from the lucrative furs in New Caledonia farther north. With American settlers beginning to come into the region, in 1843 the company sent Chief Factor James Douglas to build a fort some distance north on Vancouver Island and made him its superintendent. The signing of the Oregon Treaty in 1846 settled the matter of Fort Vancouver’s further suitability as the United Kingdom gave up its claims in the area to the United States and in return kept Vancouver Island while the Americans dropped their claims north of the 49th parallel.\n\nErected in 1843 on a site originally called Camosun (a variant of the Lekwungen word \"Camossung\", the name of a girl turned into stone by the spiritual being Hayls, the Transformer to watch over the resources in what is now known as the Gorge waterway.) The fort was known briefly as \"Fort Albert\", but on June 10, 1843, by resolution of HBC's Council of the Northern Department, it was officially named Victoria in honour of the young Queen. The Fort was built using labour from local First Nations people, who were paid one Hudson’s Bay blanket for every 40 pickets they cut. The Songhees people soon established a village across the harbour from the fort. The Songhees' village was later moved to the north shore of Esquimalt Harbour. In 1844, a dispute led to a gathering of warriors led by Tzouhalem, a Quamichan chief, who peppered the fort with threats and musket balls for two days until the fort's Chief Factor Roderick Finlayson demonstrated the power of the fort's nine-pounder cannon.\n\nIn 1849, the crown Colony of Vancouver Island was established and the HBC was granted exclusive proprietary rights over Vancouver Island. The condition imposed by the Colonial Office was that the company would establish a settlement within five years or see their grant revoked. It was also to spend ninety percent of what it made on land sales on infrastructure such as roads and schools. A town was laid out on the site and made the capital of the colony. London sent Richard Blanshard to be its governor.\n\nEven as the settlement began to grow, the nature of the company’s business was changing. Animal populations were beginning to dwindle from overtrapping, slowing the fur trade, but the California gold rush created a huge demand for resources with few places to buy them on the unsettled west coast. By 1850 there were several sawmills operating at Victoria to feed the hungry California market. The company was soon trading salted salmon with Hawaii and outfitting Royal Navy ships with supplies for the Crimean war.\n\nThe Colony prospered and grew with the gold rush and by 1860, a small legislature was formed. However, Governor James Douglas turned down any suggestion of a responsible government.\n\nChief Factor James Douglas, who remained superintendent of the fort, was made the second governor of the Vancouver Island colony in 1851, and would be the leading figure in the early development of the city until his retirement in 1864, and of the Mainland Colony from 1858–62 when he was replaced as governor of that colony by Frederick Seymour. The fort was demolished in November 1864. In June 1924, the site of the fort was designated a National Historic Site of Canada.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1812276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812276", "title": "First Wave (TV series)", "text": "First Wave (TV series)\n\nFirst Wave is a Canadian science fiction drama television series, filmed in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, that aired from 1998 to 2001 on the Space Channel in Canada. The show was created by Chris Brancato. Francis Ford Coppola was executive producer on the show. In an unusual move, the Sci-Fi Channel, which picked up the show in late 1998, later expanded their pickup of the series to a 66-episode order. The show was subsequently cancelled once the 66-episode order was filled at the end of the third season due to disappointing ratings.\n\nFormer thief turned security specialist Kincaid Lawrence \"Cade\" Foster’s life was idyllic, with a beautiful wife, good job and a nice house. Unbeknownst to him, a race of extraterrestrials called the Gua have identified him as subject 117 in an experiment to test human resilience. As part of this experiment, his life is systematically ruined, including the murder of his wife, for which he is framed. He is the only one of the 117 subjects to solve the riddles of the experiment and escape arrest to live as a fugitive. The Gua are among humans in the form of hybridised genetic clones and plan to enslave humanity—the first of three \"waves\" intent on conquering and finally destroying the human race. Constantly pursued by the police, and a strange government agency called the Illuminati, Foster discovers previously unknown quatrains of Nostradamus, which tell of three waves that will destroy the planet unless the \"twice-blessed man\" can stop them. For this reason, Foster investigates strange occurrences that may have ties to the Nostradamus quatrains, hoping to find what he needs to stop the Gua.\n\n\"Crazy\" Eddie Nambulous is a computer hacker who helps Cade Foster and works on a web tabloid \"Paranoid Times\". He uses Cade’s journal to tell people that the \"aliens are here, walking among us, laying the groundwork for an impending invasion.\" After scanning the prophecies of Nostradamus into his computer, he analyzes and cross-references the quatrains with bizarre current events to which they may be connected. Foster and Eddie use these quatrains to understand the Gua invasion and search for any and all tools that may aid them in stopping the invasion in its First Wave.\n\nOne of the Gua, Joshua, does not believe the invasion of Earth is necessary. Although he wants the best for his people, he helps Cade and Eddie stop his people from initiating the \"Second Wave\" — the invasion itself, in which 19 million people will die.\n\nWe were like you once. There’s a time for peace and inner-growth, but we became complacent; and when the invasion force landed, they took us down. One rebel led us to freedom. That’s when we took the name Gua; it means “power to overcome”. Over the centuries, science and industry achieved perfect focus. We created a military machine to ensure our freedom, permanently... We’re here because we’ll never be victims again.\"\nThe Gua are a race older than humanity, coming from a much older star system. As Joshua tells Cade, “Everything on my planet is red, the colour of a tired sun; the colour of death” which indicates that their home system is at a much later stage than our own, and that their sun is entering a late phase of its life. The Gua originally existed peacefully, exploring their inner selves until they were invaded and enslaved. Eventually, they rose up and overthrew their oppressors, taking the name Gua from that climactic, defining event; Gua meaning “power to overcome”.\n\nAs a consequence of this invasion, the newly named Gua decided they could no longer afford to be passive and peaceful, and set out on an aggressive, expansionist path. Aware of the limited lifespan of their home planet, they began a campaign to expand into other systems. Thus their invasion of Earth was planned.\n\nDue to the distance between Earth and their own planet, the Gua devised a method of dispatching small metallic orbs containing their consciousnesses through wormholes to Earth and transferring them into specially bioengineered human husks. As a result of this, it is unknown what the Gua actually look like.\n\nThese husks contain small amounts of Gua DNA that provide the aliens with an increased rate of healing, strength, speed and intelligence. The husks dissolve and disappear completely when the aliens are killed. The aliens in these husks are tasked with preparing the planet for the Second Wave. While being held hostage by Cade, Joshua noted that he was in his “third body”; this is further elaborated when Joshua states that the average Gua life-span is “equal to 1,000 human years”.\n\nIn the third season, Joshua reveals that at least one other race had been conquered and exterminated by the Gua centuries prior. Apparently, some members of that race had precognitive abilities; it is revealed that the being later known as Nostradamus was a member of this race. He journeyed to Earth and used his precognitive abilities to leave behind the prophesies that would help Cade resist the Gua.\n\nIt has been established that the Gua communicate telepathically and have sensory abilities far more advanced than a human. This is due largely to the fact that from birth the Gua undergo a continuous metamorphosis, making the issue of identifying one individual Gua from another impossible. As a result, they have developed a sophisticated array of senses that can be used to rightfully identify other Gua. It has also been established that a Gua can at least sense the presence of another Gua from a distance without making contact.\n\nThe Gua have on numerous occasions demonstrated a very totalitarian culture and nature that limits their empathic abilities. Their sexual nature is one where intercourse is severely painful and partners are chosen out of genetic capabilities. Their culture is based on racial unity, where society is superior and individuals have no value. Several Gua have experienced guilt and even rebelled after realizing the horror they have committed on themselves and other races. As a result, many of them have been killed by their own as traitors.\n\nThroughout the entire series, the Gua’s most important weakness has been their lack of will, making them vulnerable when cornered or in emotional distress. They also proved (in human host form, at least) to have a weakness to salt – it affects them like a drug, rendering them ‘blissed out’ and may lead to addiction.\n\nIn episode 41 (Season 2, episode 19),”The Trial of Joshua Bridges”, Joshua confirms his fury towards the totalitarian and despotic nature of the Gua, accusing their leaders of reducing the Gua to “primitive butchers”.\n\n\n\n\"First Wave\" originally began airing on the Space Channel in Canada, premiering in September 1998. It also premiered in other foreign markets in 1998. While originally designed for first-run syndication market in the United States, the series was ultimately picked up the Sci-Fi Channel in December 1998 for a March 1999 premiere on the network. Sci-Fi Channel later increased their order for the series to 66 episodes (three seasons) in early 1999.\n\nOn May 17, 2011, Alliance Home Entertainment released season 1 on DVD in Region 1 (North America).\n\n\"First Wave: Subject 117\" is a novel by Chris Brancato and Karen Holmes aimed at younger readers, and published in June 2000.\n\nA series of comic books were published by Andromeda Entertainment. Six issues were published between 2000 and 2001, encompassing four storylines and each issue was released with two alternate covers: a painted one by Matt Busch or one featuring a photo of the cast.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1812282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812282", "title": "Nguyễn Thị Bình", "text": "Nguyễn Thị Bình\n\nNguyễn Thị Bình (born Nguyễn Châu Sa; 26 May 1928) is a Vietnamese communist leader and politician who negotiated at the Paris Peace Conference on behalf of the Viet Cong, or National Front for the Liberation of South Vietnam.\n\nNguyễn Thị Bình was born in 1928 in Saigon and is a granddaughter of the Nationalist leader Phan Chu Trinh. She studied French at Lycée Sisowath in Cambodia and worked as a teacher during the French colonisation of Vietnam. She joined Vietnam's Communist Party in 1948. From 1945 to 1951, she took part in various intellectual movements against the French colonists. Subsequently, she was arrested and jailed between 1951 and 1953 in Chí Hòa Prison (Saigon) by the French colonial authority in Vietnam.\n\nDuring the Vietnam War, she became a member of the Vietcong's Central Committee and a vice-chairperson of the South Vietnamese Women's Liberation Association. In 1969 she was appointed foreign minister of the Provisional Revolutionary Government of the Republic of South Vietnam and played a major role in the Paris Peace Accords on Vietnam, an agreement that was supposed to end the war and restore peace in Vietnam, which was signed in Paris and which entered into force 17 January 1973. During that time, she was very famous in representing Vietnamese women with her elegant and gracious style, and was named by the media as \"Madame Binh\". She was one of those who signed the Paris Peace Accords.\n\nAfter the Vietnam War, she was appointed Minister of Education of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam and from 1982 to 1986, which she was the first female minister ever in the history of Viet Nam. Nguyen Thi Binh was a member of the Central Committee of Vietnam's Communist Party, since 1987 to 1992, was Vice Head of the Central External Relations Department of Party. The National Assembly elected her twice to the position of Vice President of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam for the terms 1992–1997 and 1997–2002.\n"}
{"id": "1812285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812285", "title": "Yemeni rial", "text": "Yemeni rial\n\nThe rial or riyal is the currency of Yemen. It is technically divided into 100 fils, although coins denominated in fils have not been issued since Yemeni unification.\n\nIn the 18th and 19th century, the \"riyal\" was traditionally associated with the Maria Theresa thaler, currency that was widely in use in Yemen owing to the Mocha coffee trade with the French, and a Yemeni request that its produce be paid with thalers.\n\nAs Yemen progressed, it developed its own legal currency. After the union between the North (the Yemen Arab Republic) and the South (the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen) in 1990, both the northern rial and the southern dinar remained legal tender during a transitional period, with 1 dinar exchanged for 26 rials. On 11 June 1996, the dinar was withdrawn from circulation. In 1993, the first coins were issued for the Republic of Yemen. The value of the Yemeni rial against the United States dollar dropped significantly compared to 12.01 rials per dollar in early the 1990s. Since the mid-1990s the Yemeni rial has been freely convertible. Though it dropped from YER 20 to approximately YER 215 against the U.S. dollar since then, the rial has been stable for several years. However, since 2010 the Central Bank of Yemen had to intervene several times, resulting in a serious decline of foreign reserves. By late 2013, the Economic Intelligence Unit expects reserves to decline to approximately 1.3 months of imports over the following years, despite information that Saudi Arabia would transfer $1 billion to the Yemeni Central Bank. Due to the war, the exchange rate for the Yemeni rial has hovered between 470 to 500 Yemeni rials for 1 US dollar.\n\nWhen Yemen unified, coins had been issued in North Yemen in denominations of 1, 5, 10, 25 and 50 fils and 1 rial. The fils denominations have all disappeared from circulation. In 1993, new coins were introduced by the Central Bank of Yemen in denominations of 1 and 5 rials. These were followed by 10 rials coins in 1995 and 20 rials in 2004.\n\nAt the time of unification, Central Bank of Yemen notes in circulation were 1, 5, 10, 20, 50 and 100 rials. In 1993, the 1 and 5 rials notes were replaced by coins, with the same happening to the 10 rials notes in 1995. In 1996, 200 rials notes were introduced, followed by 500 rials in 1997 and 1000 rials in 1998. The 20 rials notes were replaced by coins in 2004. In addition, a 250 rial banknote was issued on November 14, 2009. In 2017, the Central Bank of Yemen, now relocated in Aden, its interim capital due to the civil war, issued 500 and 1,000 rials banknotes with revised security features and different size dimensions. In 2018, the Central Bank of Yemen reintroduced the 200 rials banknote and has issued a new 100 rials banknote.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1812289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812289", "title": "Bangu Atlético Clube", "text": "Bangu Atlético Clube\n\nBangu Atlético Clube, or Bangu as they are usually called, is a Brazilian football club from the Bangu district in Rio de Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro state, founded on April 17, 1904. The club competed in the Campeonato Brasileiro Série A several times, finishing as runner-up in 1985.\n\nTheir home stadium is the Estadio Moça Bonita, which has a capacity of 15,000.\n\nThe club has its origins in Fábrica Bangu (Bangu Factory), located in Bangu neighborhood, Rio de Janeiro. Some Britons that worked at the factory, especially Thomas Donohoe, introduced football to the factory workers by bringing footballs to the place and organizing the first football match in Brazil. In December 1903, Andrew Procter suggested the foundation of a club, when he realized how enthusiastic his colleagues were for football. The club was founded on April 17, 1904 as Bangu Atlético Clube. Bangu was the first football club in Brazil to feature black and mulatto players.\n\nIn 1933, Bangu won its first state championship.\n\nIn 1966, Bangu won its second state championship in a game played in the world's largest stadium filled with over 120,000 fans, the Maracana. They beat powerhouse Flamengo 3–0 in a game remembered by a big brawl caused by Flamengo's players, in which several players got ejected afterwards. In 1967, Bangu, as the Houston Stars, represented the city of Houston in the United Soccer Association. The club finished with four victories, four draws and four defeats, but led the competition's attendance, with an average of 19,000 supporters per match.\n\nIn 1985, Bangu was the runner-up of Campeonato Brasileiro, gaining the right to compete in the following year's Copa Libertadores.\n\nIn 2004, Bangu was relegated to the Campeonato Carioca Second Level, returning to the first level in 2009, after winning the 2008 second level.\n\n\n\nBangu's stadium is Estádio Guilherme Da Silveira Filho, popularly known as Moça Bonita, built in 1947, with a maximum capacity of 15,000 people.\n\nBangu's biggest rivals are América, Ceres, and Campo Grande.\n\nBangu's mascot is a beaver, known as \"castor\" in Portuguese. Castor de Andrade, a banker of Jogo do Bicho (illicit game in Brazil) financially supported the club for several years. The mascot was created in Castor de Andrade's era.\n\n\n\n\nhttps://web.archive.org/web/20150402131514/http://www.bangu-ac.com.br/jogadores.htm\n\n"}
{"id": "1812290", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812290", "title": "Ely railway station", "text": "Ely railway station\n\nEly railway station is on the Fen line in the east of England, serving the city of Ely, Cambridgeshire.\n\nIt is from London Liverpool Street and is situated between and stations on the Fen line to Kings Lynn. It is an important junction for three other lines; the Ely to Peterborough Line, the Ipswich to Ely Line and the Norwich to Ely line.\n\nEly is a busy station with trains running to a variety of destinations including London, , , Birmingham, , , Manchester and Liverpool. It is managed by Greater Anglia which is also one of four train operators that serve the station, the others being Great Northern, CrossCountry and East Midlands Railway.\n\nThe station was opened in 1845 by the Eastern Counties Railway at a cost of £81,500, the land on which it was built being a marshy swamp. The station was modified substantially by British Rail in the early 1990s, at the time that electrification of the line was taking place.\n\nThe station is served by four operators:\n\n\nThere are two branches of Locoespresso on the station, one on platform 1 and the other on platform 2/3. These serve hot and cold drinks as well as snacks, magazines and newspapers. Platform 1 also includes an L.A. Golden Bean kiosk which sells hot and cold drinks and snacks.\n\n\nImmediately north-east of Ely station, the railway lines pass on a bridge over the A142. The height available for road traffic passing beneath the bridge is only which is unusually low for a bridge over an A-road. Despite the various warnings, the limited headroom is a frequent cause of accidents. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1812292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812292", "title": "Aggregat (rocket family)", "text": "Aggregat (rocket family)\n\nThe Aggregat series (German for \"Aggregate\") was a set of ballistic missile designs developed in 1933–45 by a research program of Nazi Germany's army (Wehrmacht). Its greatest success was the A4, more commonly known as the V-2.\n\nThe A1 was the first rocket design in the Aggregat series. It was designed in 1933 by Wernher von Braun in a German armed forces research program at Kummersdorf headed by Walter Dornberger. The A1 was the grandfather of most modern rockets. The rocket was long, in diameter, and had a takeoff weight of . The engine, designed by Arthur Rudolph, used a pressure-fed rocket propellant system burning alcohol and liquid oxygen, and produced 300 kgf (660 lbf, 2.9 kN) of thrust for 16 seconds. The LOX tank was located within the fuel tank and insulated with a fiberglass material. The rocket was stabilized by a 3 axes gyroscope system in the nose, supplied by Kreiselgeräte G.m.b.H. The entire rocket could not be rotated for stability as with a ballistic shell, as centrifugal force would force the liquid fuel to rise up along the walls of their tanks, which made feeding propellants to the combustion chamber difficult. Although the engine had been successfully test fired, the first flight attempt blew up on the launching pad on 21 December 1933, a half a second after ignition. The cause was a buildup up of propellants before ignition of its 660-pound-thrust engine. Since the design was thought to be unstable, no further attempts were made, and efforts moved to the A2 design. The A-1 was too nose-heavy, and to compensate, the gyroscope system was moved to the middle of the A-2, between the oxygen and alcohol tanks.\n\nStatic tests and assembly were completed by 1 October 1934. Two A2s were built for a full out test, and were named after a Wilhelm Busch cartoon, \"Max and Moritz\". On 19 and 20 December 1934, they were launched in front of the Army brass on Borkum island in the North Sea. They reached altitudes of and . The A-2s had the same dimensions as the A-1, and the same 660-pound-thrust engine, but separate propellant tanks. The cylindrical regeneratively cooled combustion chamber was welded inside the alcohol tank. The mushroom-shaped injector system consisted of fuel and oxidizer jets pointing at one another. Propellants were pressurized via a nitrogen tank, a system which was also used for the A-3 and A-5.\n\nDevelopment of the A3 can be traced at least to February 1935 when Major Ernst Ritter von Horstig sent General Karl Becker a budget of almost half a million marks for the construction of two new test stands at Kummersdorf. Included were mobile test rigs, small locomotives, and office and storage space. The A3 plans called for a rocket with an inertial guidance system and a thrust engine.\n\nIn March 1936, Army General Werner von Fritsch witnessed a static firing of an A3 engine at Kummersdorf, and was sufficiently impressed to lend his support to the rocket program. Like the earlier A1 and A2 rockets, the A3 also used a pressure-fed propellant system, and the same liquid oxygen and 75% alcohol mixture as the earlier designs. It generated its for 45 seconds. It used a three-gyroscope system to deflect tungsten alloy jet vanes. The design was finished and secretly patented in the spring of 1936 and further modifications that made the rocket stable at supersonic velocities were finalized in the autumn.\n\nThe shape of the rocket was based on the 8-millimeter infantry bullet, in anticipation of supersonic flight. The rocket was 22 feet in length, 2.3 feet in diameter, and weighed 1650 pounds when fueled. Fins were included, for \"arrow stability\", structurally anchored by an antenna ring. The stabilized platform used a pitch gyro and a yaw gyro, connected to pneumatic servos, which stabilized the platform along the pitch and yaw axes. Electrical carriages on the platform acted as integrating accelerometers. These signals were mixed with those from the SG-33 system, to drive the molybdenum-tungsten jet vane control servomotors. The SG-33 was fixed to the rocket, not the stabilized platform, and used three rate gyros for sensing roll, pitch and yaw deviations. Two of the jet vanes rotated in the same direction for pitch and yaw control, and in the opposite direction for roll control. The guidance and control system was designed by Fritz Mueller, based on Johannes Maria Boykow's ideas, the technical director of Kreiselgeräte GmbH (Gyro Instruments, Limited).\n\nThe A-3 engine was a scaled up version of the A-2, but with a mushroom-shaped injector at the top of the combustion chamber, based on a design by Walter Riedel. Alcohol was sprayed upwards to mix with the oxygen sprayed downward from jets at the top of the chamber. This increased efficiency and generated higher burning temperatures.\n\nThis was the first of the Aggregat rockets to be launched from the Peenemünde area. As part of Operation Lighthouse the first A3 was launched on 4 December 1937, but suffered problems with both premature parachute deployment and engine failure, and crashed close to the takeoff point. The second launch on 6 December 1937 suffered similar problems. The parachute was disabled in the third and fourth rockets launched on 8 and 11 December 1937, but these, too, experienced engine failures, though the lack of parachute drag allowed them to crash further from the launch site. They reached altitudes between 2500 and 300 feet, before falling into the sea.\n\nAccording to another source, one A3 reached a maximum downrange of and maximum altitude of .\n\nWith each launch a failure, von Braun and Dornberger looked for the cause. At first there was some thought of an electrostatic charge that prematurely set off the parachute, but this was largely disproved. Ultimately, the failures were attributed to the inadequate design of the rocket's experimental inertial guidance system and minor instabilities in the body and fin design. The control system was found to be unable to keep the rocket from turning with a wind greater than 12 feet per second. The stable platform gyros were limited to a 30 degree range of motion, and when the platform tumbled, the parachutes deployed. Additionally, the jet vanes needed to move faster, and have a larger control force, to stop the rolling. Finally, the fins were redesigned in the A-5, when it was realized an expanding jet plume as the rocket gained altitude, would have destroyed the A-3 fin stabilizing antenna ring. \n\nAfter this unsuccessful series of launches, the A3 was abandoned and A4 work postponed, while work on the A5 commenced.\n\nAccording to Dornberger, the A-3 \"...had not been equipped to take any payload. It was a purely experimental missile.\" Similarly, the A-5 was to be \"for research purposes only.\"\n\nThe A-5 played a vital role in testing the aerodynamics and technology of the A-4. Its rocket motor was identical to the A-3, but with a new control system provided by Siemens. The A-5 length was almost the same as the A-3, but was 4 inches larger in diameter (24.2 feet long and 2.5 feet in diameter). The A-5 was fitted with a Brennschluss receiving set, a parachute recovery system, could stay afloat for up to two hours, and was painted yellow and red, aiding recovery. New tail surfaces were tested in the Zeppelin Aircraft Works subsonic tunnel and the supersonic tunnel in Aachen. The internal vanes were now made of Graphite instead of molybdenum. Uncontrolled A-5's were launched from Griefswalder Oie in the autumn of 1938. Models 5 feet long and 8 inches in diameter were dropped from He-111s starting in September 1938, testing supersonic speeds in the absence of a supersonic wind tunnel. Hellmuth Walter also made models of the A-5 that were 5 feet long and 8 inches in diameter. They included a hydrogen peroxide motor, with potassium permanganate as a catalyst, and test launched in March 1939. The final fin configuration was wider, curved outward to accommodate the expanding exhaust gases, included external air vanes, but no ring antenna.\n\nThe A-5 was long, with a diameter of and a takeoff weight of , and like the A-3 was fueled with alcohol with liquid oxygen as an oxidant. The first successful guided flights were made in October 1939, with three of the first four flights using a Kreiselgeräte complete guidance and control system called SG-52. The SG-52 used a 3-gyro stabilized platform for attitude control and a tilt program, whose signals were mixed with rate gyros by a torquer device, and fed to a control system connected to the jet vanes by aluminum rods. The Siemens \"Vertikant\" control system first flew on 24 April 1940. The Siemens system used three gyros, stabilized by 3 rate gyros, and hydraulic servomotors to move the jet vanes to correct pitch and yaw, and control roll. The Möller Askania, or Rechlin system, first flew on 30 April 1940, and used position gyros, a mixing system and a servo system. A-5 testing included a guide plane system for lateral control, and a radio system for propulsion cutoff at a preselected speed, after which the rocket followed a ballistic trajectory. The A-5s reached a height of and a range of 11 miles. Up to 80 launches by October 1943 developed an understanding of the rocket's aerodynamics, and tests of a better guidance system. The aerodynamic data resulted in a fin and rudder design that was basically the same one used for the A-4.\n\nAt the conclusion of the A-5 testing, Dornberger stated, \"I now knew that we should succeed in creating a weapon with far greater range than any artillery. What we had successfully done with the A-5 must be equally valid, in improved form, for the A-4.\"\n\nThe A4 was a full-sized design with a range of about 322 kilometers (200 mi), an initial peak altitude of 89 kilometers (55 mi) and a payload of about a tonne. Versions of the A4 were used in warfare. They included the first ballistic missile and the first projectile to reach outer space.\n\nThe propellants of choice continued to be liquid oxygen, with a 75% ethyl alcohol and 25% water mixture. The water reduced the flame temperature, acted as a coolant, and reduced thermal stress.\n\nThis increase in capability came from a redesign of the A3 engine, now known as the A5, by Walter Thiel. It became clearer that von Braun's designs were turning into useful weapons, and Dornberger moved the team from the artillery testing grounds at Kummersdorf (near Berlin) to a small town, Peenemünde, on the island of Usedom on Germany's Baltic coast, in order to provide more room for testing and greater secrecy. This version was reliable, and by 1941 the team had fired about 70 A5 rockets. The first A4 flew in March 1942, flying about 1.6 kilometers (1 mi) and crashing into the water. The second launch reached an altitude of 11 kilometers (7 mi) before exploding. The third rocket, launched on October 3, 1942, followed its trajectory perfectly. It landed 193 kilometers (120 mi) away, and reached a height of 83 kilometers (52 mi). The highest altitude reached during the war was on 20 June 1944.\n\nProduction started in 1943 on the rocket. The missile testing ground at Blizna was quickly located by the Polish resistance movement, the Armia Krajowa, thanks to reports from local farmers. Armia Krajowa field agents even managed to obtain pieces of the fired rockets, by arriving on the scene before German patrols. In early March 1944, British Intelligence Headquarters received a report of an Armia Krajowa agent (code name: \"‘Makary’\") who had covertly surveyed the Blizna railway line and observed a freight car heavily guarded by SS troops containing \"‘an object which, though covered by a tarpaulin, bore every resemblance to a monstrous torpedo’\". Subsequently, a plan was formed to make an attempt to capture a whole unexploded V-2 rocket and transport it to Britain. Around 20 May 1944, a relatively undamaged V-2 rocket fell on the swampy bank of the Bug River near the village of Sarnaki and local Poles managed to hide it before German arrival. The rocket was then dismantled and smuggled across Poland. In late July 1944, the Polish resistance (see Home Army and V1 and V2) secretly transported parts of the rocket out of Poland in Operation Most III (Bridge III), for analysis by British intelligence.\n\nIn late 1943 Deutsche Arbeitsfront Director, Otto Lafferenz, proposed the idea of a towable watertight container which could hold an A4 rocket. This suggestion progressed to the design of a container of 500 tons displacement to be towed behind a U-boat. Once in firing position, the containers would be trimmed to drop their aft end to a vertical position for launch. The project was dubbed \"Projekt Schwimmweste\" and the containers themselves referred to by the codename \"Prüfstand XII\". Work on the containers was carried out by the Vulkanwerft, and a single example was completed by the end of the war, but never tested with a rocket launch.\n\nIn anticipation of the possibility that launch sites might be forced back into the Reich itself, von Braun and his colleagues were put under pressure to develop a longer-range version of the A4 known alternatively as A9 and A4b, the reason for the dual designation being that the A4 series had received \"national priority\"; the A4b designation ensured the availability of scarce resources.\n\nIn June 1939, Kurt Patt of the Peenemünde Design Office, proposed wings for converting rocket speed and altitude into aerodynamic lift and range. As the rocket encountered thicker atmosphere on its descent phase, it would execute a pullout and enter a shallow glide, trading speed for distance. Patt also proposed the \"Flossengeschoss\" (fin projectile). Both concepts were utilized by Walter Dornberger when he drafted a memo for presentation to Hitler regarding the \"America rocket\" on July 31, 1940.\n\nDesign studies on the A9 began in 1940. In addition to its wings, the A9 would have been somewhat larger than the A4 and its engine would have produced about 30% more thrust. Following wind tunnel testing of models, the design was subsequently modified to replace the wings with fuselage strakes, as the tests showed that these provided better lift at supersonic speeds and also solved the problem of transonic shift of the centre of lift.\n\nDevelopment was suspended in 1941, but in 1944 several V-2s were modified to an approximation of the A9 configuration under the designation A4b. It was calculated that by fitting wings, the A4's range would be extended to , allowing targets in Britain to be attacked from launch sites within Germany itself. It was intended that following launch the curve of the A4b's trajectory would become shallower and the rocket would glide toward its target. It was anticipated that interception by enemy aircraft at the end of the glide phase would be virtually impossible as over the target the A-4b was intended to enter a near vertical dive leaving little time for interception.\n\nThe A4b concept was tested by fitting swept back wings to two A4s launched from Blizna. Little development work had been carried out and the first launch on 27 December 1944 was a complete failure. The second launch attempt, on 24 January 1945, was partially successful, in that the wing broke off, but the A4b still managed to become the first winged guided missile to break the sound barrier and attain Mach 4.\n\nA6 was a designation applied to a variant of the A5 test rocket which used different propellants.\n\nSome sources indicate that it was also applied to a speculative proposal for a manned aerial reconnaissance version of the A4b winged variant of the A4. This A6 was initially proposed to the German Air Ministry as an uninterceptable reconnaissance craft. It would be launched vertically by rocket, taking it to an apogee of ; after re-entering the atmosphere it would enter a supersonic glide phase, when its single ramjet would be ignited. It was hoped that this would provide 15 to 20 minutes of cruise at and would allow the aircraft to return to its base and make a conventional runway landing assisted by a drag chute. However, the Air Ministry had no requirement for such an aircraft and the proposal was rejected. Similar concepts (though unmanned) were produced after the war in the form of the USA's SM-64 Navaho missile and the USSR's Burya, both intercontinental cruise missiles with ramjet propulsion.\n\nThe A7 was a winged design that was never fully constructed. It was worked on between 1940 and 1943 at Peenemünde for the Kriegsmarine. The A7 was similar in structure to the A5, but had larger tail unit fins (1.621 m²) in order to obtain greater range in gliding flight. Two unpowered models of the A7 were dropped from airplanes in order to test flight stability; no powered test was ever performed. The finished rocket should have produced a takeoff thrust of 15 kN and a takeoff weight of 1000 kg. The design had a diameter of 0.38 m and a length of 5.91 m.\n\nThe A8 was a proposed \"stretched\" variant of the A4, to use storable rocket propellants (most likely nitric acid & kerosene). The design never reached the prototype stage, but further design work was carried out after the war by a German rocket team in France as the \"Super V-2\". The project was eventually cancelled, but led to the French Véronique and Diamant rocket projects.\n\nIt was proposed to use an advanced version of the A9 to attack targets on the US mainland from launch sites in Europe, for which it would need to be launched atop a booster stage, the A10.\n\nDesign work on the A10 began in 1940, for a projected first flight to take place in 1946. The initial design was carried out by Ludwig Roth und Graupe and was completed on 29 June 1940. Hermann Oberth worked on the design during 1941, and in December 1941 Walter Thiel proposed that the A10 use an engine composed of six bundled A4 engines, which it was thought would give a total thrust of 180 tonnes.\n\nWork on the A10 was resumed in late 1944 under the \"Projekt Amerika\" codename, and the A10's design was amended to incorporate a cluster of 6 A4 combustion chambers feeding into a single expansion nozzle. This was later altered to a massive single chamber and single nozzle. Test stands were constructed at Peenemunde for firings of the 200 tonne (440,920 lbf) thrust motor.\n\nIt was considered that existing guidance systems would not be accurate enough over a distance of 5,000 km, and it was decided to make the A9 piloted. The pilot was to be guided on his terminal glide towards the target by radio beacons on U-boats and by automatic weather stations landed in Greenland and Labrador.\n\nThe final design of the A10 booster was approximately in height. Powered by a thrust rocket burning diesel oil and nitric acid, during its 50-second burn it would have propelled its A9 second stage to a speed of about . The A-9 would then ignite and accelerate an additional 3600 miles per hour, reaching a speed of 6300 miles per hour, a peak altitude of 35 miles, and covering 2500 miles in about 35 minutes. The spent A-10 would descend by brake flaps and parachute to be recovered in the sea and reused.\n\nThe A11 (\"Japan Rakete\") was a design concept which would have acted as the first stage of a three-stage rocket, the other two stages being the A9 and A10.\n\nThe A11 design was shown by von Braun to US officers in Garmisch-Partenkirchen; the drawing was later published in 1946 by the US Army. The A11 was shown as using six of the large single-chamber engines proposed for the A10 stage, with a modified A10 second stage nested within the A11. The design also showed the winged A9, indicating a gliding landing or bombing mission. To achieve orbit, either a new \"kick stage\" would have been required, or the A9 would have to have been lightened. In either case, only a payload of approximately could have been placed in a low earth orbit.\n\nThe A12 design was a true orbital rocket. It was proposed as a four-stage vehicle, comprising A12, A11, A10 and A9 stages. Calculations suggested it could place as much as 10 tonnes payload in low Earth orbit.\n\nThe A12 stage itself would have weighed around 3,500 tonnes fully fuelled, and would have stood high. It was to have been propelled by 50 A10 engines, fuelled by liquid oxygen and alcohol.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1812300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812300", "title": "Tromakton", "text": "Tromakton\n\nTromakton () is a Greek dance that usually precedes or follows a Tik. It is a fast dance which has a distinct double bounce which becomes more vigorous as the dance goes on. It is usually played before Atsiapat or Serra, because it has similar steps and it is like an introduction for these dances.\n\n"}
{"id": "1812303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812303", "title": "1,2-Wittig rearrangement", "text": "1,2-Wittig rearrangement\n\nA 1,2-Wittig rearrangement is a categorization of chemical reactions in organic chemistry, and consists of a 1,2-rearrangement of an ether with an alkyllithium compound. The reaction is named for Nobel Prize winning chemist Georg Wittig.\n\nThe intermediate product is an alkoxy lithium salt and the final product an alcohol. When R\" is a good leaving group and electron withdrawing functional group such as a cyanide (CN) group, this group is eliminated and the corresponding ketone is formed.\n\nThe reaction mechanism centers on the formation of a free radical pair with lithium migrating from the carbon atom to the oxygen atom. The R radical then recombines with the ketyl.\n\nThe alkyl group migrates in the order of thermodynamical stability methyl < primary alkyl < secondary alkyl < tertiary alkyl in this is line with the radical mechanism. The radical-ketyl pair is short lived and due to a solvent cage effect some isomerizations take place with retention of configuration.\n\nWith certain allyl aryl ethers a competing reaction mechanism takes place. The reaction of \"allyl phenyl ether\" 1 with \"sec-butyllithium\" at −78 °C gives the lithiated intermediate 2 which on heating to −25 °C only shows the rearranged product 5 but not 4 after trapping the lithium alkoxide with trimethylsilyl chloride. This result rules out a radical-ketyl intermediate 3a in favor of the Meisenheimer complex 3b. Additional evidence for this mechanism is provided by the finding that with a para tert-butyl substituent the reaction is retarded.\n\nThe reaction is a formal dyotropic reaction.\n\n"}
{"id": "1812304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812304", "title": "Discounted utility", "text": "Discounted utility\n\nIn economics, discounted utility is the utility (desirability) of some future event, such as consuming a certain amount of a good, as perceived at the present time as opposed to at the time of its occurrence. It is calculated as the present discounted value of future utility, and for people with time preference for sooner rather than later gratification, it is less than the future utility. The utility of an event \"x\" occurring at future time \"t\" under utility function \"u\", discounted back to the present (time 0) using discount factor formula_1 Is\n\nSince more distant events are less liked, formula_3\n\nDiscounted utility calculations made for events at various points in the future as well as at the present take the form \n\nwhere formula_5 is the utility of some choice formula_6 at time formula_7 and \"T\" is the time of the most distant future satisfaction event. Here, since utility comparisons are being made across time when the utilities are combined in a single evaluation, the utility function is necessarily cardinal in nature.\n\nIn a typical intertemporal consumption model, the above summation of utilities discounted from various future times would be maximized with respect to the amounts \"x\" consumed in each period, subject to an intertemporal budget constraint that says that the present value of current and future expenditures does not exceed the present value of financial resources available for spending.\n\nThe interpretation of formula_8 is not straightforward. Sometimes it is explained as the degree of a person's patience. Given the interpretation of economic agents as rational, this exempts time-valuations from rationality judgments, so that someone who spends and borrows voraciously is just as rational as someone who spends and saves moderately, or as someone who hoards his wealth and never spends it: different people have different rates of time preference.\n\nSome formulations treat formula_8 not as a constant, but as a function formula_10 that itself varies over time, for example in models which use the concept of hyperbolic discounting. This view is consistent with empirical observations that humans display inconsistent time preferences. For example, experiments by Tversky and Kahneman showed that the same people who would choose 1 candy bar now over 2 candy bars tomorrow, would choose 2 candy bars 101 days from now over 1 candy bar 100 days from now. (This is inconsistent because if the same question were posed 100 days from now, the person would ostensibly again choose 1 candy bar immediately instead of 2 candy bars the next day.)\n\nDespite arguments about how formula_8 should be interpreted, the basic idea is that all other things equal, the agent prefers to have something now as opposed to later (hence formula_12).\n\n"}
{"id": "1812323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812323", "title": "Alfredo d'Escragnolle Taunay, Viscount of Taunay", "text": "Alfredo d'Escragnolle Taunay, Viscount of Taunay\n\nAlfredo Maria Adriano d'Escragnolle Taunay, Viscount of Taunay (February 22, 1843 – January 25, 1899), was a French Brazilian writer, musician, professor, military engineer, historian, politician, sociologist and nobleman. He is famous for the Regionalist novel \"Inocência\", considered a major forerunner of Naturalism in Brazil, and for \"A Retirada da Laguna\" (1874; originally written in 1872 in French as \"Le retraite de Laguna\"), an account of an episode in the war against Paraguay. The Brazilianist Leslie Bethell has described it as \"the one undoubted literary masterpiece produced by the Paraguayan War\".\n\nHe founded and occupied the 13th chair of the Brazilian Academy of Letters from 1897 until his death in 1899.\n\nTaunay was born in Rio de Janeiro, in 1843. His father was Félix Taunay, a painter, professor and headmaster of the Escola Nacional de Belas Artes; his mother, Gabriela Hermínia Robert d'Escragnolle Taunay, was one of the sisters of Gastão d'Escragnolle, the Baron d'Escragnolle; and his grandfather was the famous French painter Nicolas-Antoine Taunay. Growing up in a cultured environment, Taunay studied Literature and Humanities at the Colégio Pedro II, graduating in 1858. He would study Physics and Mathematics in what is now the Academia Militar das Agulhas Negras. An Ensign in 1862, bachelor in Mathematics in 1863 and an Artillery Lieutenant in 1864, he was matriculated in the second year of military engineering course, but he did not finish it because of the Paraguayan War. From his experiences at the war, he wrote the memoir \"Cenas de Viagem\" in 1868 and the famous historic account \"La Retraite de Laguna\" (French for \"The Retreat of Laguna\") in 1872, translating it to Portuguese two years later.\n\nTaunay wrote and published his first romance, \"Mocidade de Trajano\" (\"Trajan's Youth\"), in 1871, under the pen name Sílvio Dinarte. Appointed by the future Viscount of Rio Branco José Maria da Silva Paranhos, Sr., he became the general deputy of Goiás from 1872 to 1875, a Major in 1875 and the governor of Santa Catarina from 1876 to 1877. In 1885, he would ask for his demission of the Major post.\n\nTaunay married Cristina Teixeira Leite, daughter of Francisco José Teixeira Leite (Baron of Vassouras), granddaughter of Francisco José Teixeira (1st Baron of Itambé) and grandniece of Custódio Ferreira Leite (Baron of Aiuruoca). They would have one son, future historian Afonso d'Escragnolle Taunay (1876–1958).\n\nTaunay was a member of the Conservative Party, but when the party fell, in 1878, he travelled to Europe, returning only in 1880.\n\nFrom 1881 to 1884, he was the deputy of Santa Catarina. He candidated himself to the post of deputy of Rio de Janeiro, but was defeated in the elections. From 1885 to 1886, he was the governor of Paraná. One of Taunay's most famous deeds as governor of Paraná was the inauguration of the famous in the capital Curitiba, in 1886.\n\nIn 1889, Emperor Pedro II gave him the title of Viscount of Taunay. However, when Brazil became a Republic, the nobility ranks were all abolished. Taunay, disgusted, abandoned his political career, since he was a monarchist.\n\nHe died in 1899, due to diabetes.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1812326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812326", "title": "Dino Crisis (video game)", "text": "Dino Crisis (video game)\n\nInstead of the pre-rendered backgrounds of the \"Resident Evil\" games that preceded it, \"Dino Crisis\" uses an original real-time engine with 3D environments. Gameplay features traditional survival horror mechanics including action and puzzles, and it was developed to have more consistent visceral terror with the dinosaurs being quick, intelligent, and violent. Capcom would later market the game as \"panic horror\" as opposed to \"survival horror\" due to these design changes. The team used carnivorous animals as references for animating the dinosaurs and programming their behaviors. Mikami's vision for the game was not completely fulfilled, as he wanted to develop more complex dinosaur artificial intelligence. However, he did believe the team was able to create sufficiently detailed environments despite hardware limitations.\n\n\"Dino Crisis\" was a critical and commercial success, with the PlayStation version selling over 2.4 million copies. Critics drew heavy comparisons to \"Resident Evil\", with some describing it as \"\"Resident Evil\" with dinosaurs.\" They also praised the game's intensity, graphics, and gameplay. Some criticism was directed towards the lack of dinosaur variety, repetitive environments, and tedious puzzles. \"Dino Crisis\" was ported to the Sega Dreamcast and Microsoft Windows in 2000, and was re-released for the PlayStation Network in 2006. Two different versions for the Game Boy Color were in development, but both were cancelled.\n\n\"Dino Crisis\" features survival horror gameplay that is very similar to Capcom's early \"Resident Evil\" titles. Regina can walk, run, turn, backpedal, push and climb objects, and perform a 180-degree turn. A map is available which will show Regina's location, destination, save points, and locked doors. Save points are rooms which will prompt the player to save upon exiting them. Some doors are locked by a D.D.K. (digital disk key) device. To open these doors, the player will need both a code disc and input disc which can then be used to decipher a code and unlock the door. There are also force fields of red beams throughout the complex which can be activated to block access to intruders.\n\nRegina's inventory may include key items, weapons, ammo, and medical supplies—the latter two of which she can only hold a limited amount. She can also mix certain items in order to upgrade them or make completely new ones, such as anesthetic darts. These items can be stored in \"emergency boxes\", which need be unlocked with special items called \"plugs\" before they are usable. Each emergency box is color coded as either red, green, or yellow. Each box can access the contents of any other unlocked box of the same color.\n\nThe player can move with weapons drawn and use automatic targeting functions. Enemies can knock Regina's weapon out of her hand, at which point she'll have to retrieve it. Sometimes \"DANGER\" may flash on the screen in perilous situations, at which point the player should push all the controller buttons as rapidly as possible to survive. If Regina becomes injured, she will hold her arm or struggle to walk. Med Paks can be used to heal Regina's health. Sometimes a trail of blood may appear, indicating that Regina is bleeding and will continue to lose health. Hemostats can be used to stop bleeding injuries. Two types of medical supplies are available in the game: Med Paks, which heals player health, and Hemostats, which stop bleeding injuries. If Regina dies, the player may continue from the room she died in. After five \"Continues\" are exhausted, the player must continue from their last save point.\n\nIn 2009, the Secret Operation Raid Team (SORT) sends an agent, Tom, to investigate a research facility on Ibis Island. He learns that Dr. Edward Kirk, a world-renowned scientist who was reported dead three years ago, is leading a secret weapons project within the facility. SORT sends four agents (Regina, Gail, Rick, and Cooper) to acquire Kirk and return him to custody. The team arrives on the island under cover of darkness, dropping in via parachute. Cooper is blown off course and lands in the jungle away from the others. Lost in the dark, he is chased down by a \"Tyrannosaurus rex\" and eaten. The other three agents, unaware of his death, proceed with the mission.\n\nOnce inside the base, the agents discover the eviscerated and partially devoured corpses of security personnel and scientists. After splitting up to restore power to the facility, Gail goes missing. Whilst searching for him, Regina is confronted by a \"Velociraptor\". Re-uniting with Rick, the two determine it was the dinosaurs that caused the bloodbath at the base. Although their mission to recover Dr. Kirk still stands, it is now more important to signal for a rescue. Regina sets out to activate the main antenna to contact their airlift. On her way, she is attacked by another \"Velociraptor\" and is rescued by Gail, who then leaves to continue searching for Dr. Kirk. After restoring communications, Regina heads back to the control room and they receive a signal on their communicators. Believing it might be Cooper or Tom in trouble, Rick wants to investigate. Gail shoots down the idea, wanting to follow up on a closed-circuit television sighting that might have been Kirk. The player must choose which course of action to follow.\n\nIf the player follows Gail, they go after an unknown man, but end up losing him. Rick then tells Regina that Tom's dead. If the player follows Rick, they come across Tom, badly injured and near death. Rick takes him to the medical room, however a \"Velociraptor\" attacks them, but Tom sacrifices himself to kill it and save Rick. Later, Regina and the team manage to locate Kirk and apprehend him. As they are preparing to leave via helicopter, the \"T. rex\" returns and destroys the helicopter, forcing them to flee back into the base while Kirk manages to escape. Regina and Rick flee into the facility and locate keys to a watercraft, but find a vortex in the way of getting to it. Rick speculates this is the spacetime distortion that brought the dinosaurs back. The two split up to find an alternate route off the island, and Regina ends up being held at gunpoint by Dr. Kirk. He is about to kill her when the gun is shot out of his hand by Gail, and they arrest him again.\n\nKirk reveals that the dinosaurs were brought to their time by an experiment he was running using his Third Energy technology. A rift in space was created and a pocket of the island from their time was exchanged with the same from the past, bringing dinosaurs back into their time. Kirk then tells them that if the reactors are set to overload, the energy coming from them and the vortex should cancel each other out if they come into contact. After Regina gets the stabilizer and initializer and uses them to overload the reactors, the energy shakes the base, causing a vent to fall on Gail allowing Kirk to get free again. The team heads towards the waterway to escape the blast, but Gail says they still need to capture the doctor. He starts to hobble away on his gun to go after Kirk, and orders Regina and Rick to leave without him if he does not return in thirty minutes. Regina is given the choice to either go after Dr. Kirk with Gail, or escape with Rick.\n\nDifferent endings are possible based on the choice the player makes. The endings all involve a battle with the \"T. rex\" and escaping the island via a watercraft or helicopter. If Regina chases Kirk, Gail reveals that the whole mission was a front and the government did not want Kirk, but instead wanted the Third Energy to use in warfare. After giving Regina a disk containing all the data for Third Energy, Gail dies from his injuries. Regina, Rick and Dr. Kirk then escape the island. Another ending sees Regina knocking out Gail and leaving instead of chasing Dr. Kirk, allowing him to escape. In the game's best ending, Regina knocks out Gail and chases Kirk by herself, resulting in his capture and the team escaping by helicopter. Regina, regardless of ending, summarizes the fate of all the characters in an email to her superiors, then declaring herself ready for her next assignment.\n\n\"Dino Crisis\" was directed and produced by Shinji Mikami, and developed by a team dubbed Capcom Production Studio 4. It is a pseudo-sequel to Mikami's popular \"Resident Evil\" series, which Mikami and his team wanted to move away from the fantasy elements of and make something more real. He cited \"\" and \"Aliens\" as influences, and liked dinosaurs because they were large, strong, fearsome, and violent. The game was developed and marketed as \"panic horror\" as opposed to the \"survival horror\" branding of \"Resident Evil\". It was made to have more consistent fright, with the dinosaurs being more intelligent, quick, and able to chase the player room-to-room. Mikami described \"Resident Evil\" as \"horror in the fun house\" and \"Dino Crisis\" as more visceral horror akin to riding a roller coaster.\n\n\"Dino Crisis\" utilizes an original 3D engine with real-time environments, as opposed to the pre-rendered backgrounds of the \"Resident Evil\" series. Mikami chose a real-time engine to enable better cinematic action and more dramatic character depictions that would otherwise be impossible. However, with the real-time engine came the challenge of hardware limitations, making it difficult for the team to create detailed environments. The team had to forego a jungle scene because of this issue. Mikami did however believe the team was able to create sufficiently detailed environments despite the hardware's polygon limitations. Like \"Resident Evil\", the game takes place indoors in an enclosed environment. Mikami wanted to keep the claustrophobic feelings, thinking it was better to build fear.\n\nSince it is unknown how dinosaurs moved in real life, the team had to use their imagination and animals such as crocodiles and dogs as reference. The animators first scanned in drawings, then used animation tools to see what was possible to animate. The dinosaur artificial intelligence was based on lions, tigers, and other carnivores that are not afraid of humans. Mikami's vision for the dinosaurs was not completely fulfilled. He wanted to include more complex dinosaur artificial intelligence, with the dinosaurs each having individual personalities that could understand the player's condition and ambush them. The dinosaur animations and cries also did not turn out as he originally envisioned them. The number of dinosaurs in the North American version was increased from the Japanese version, although the number of species remained the same.\n\n\"Dino Crisis\" was first revealed at the 1999 Spring Tokyo Game Show. The game was initially released in Japan in July 1999, two months before \"\". Ports were released for the Sega Dreamcast console and Microsoft Windows platform in 2000. A top-down interpretation of \"Dino Crisis\" was in development by UK company M4 for the Game Boy Color, but was cancelled. M4 would later develop \"Resident Evil Gaiden\" for the system instead. Another UK firm called Fluid Studios was also developing a version of the game for the Game Boy Color. It would have contained all four characters from the original version, as well as seven maps, a hundred different rooms, and five types of dinosaurs. However, this game was also canceled.\n\n\"Dino Crisis\" was met with mostly positive reviews. Critics compared \"Dino Crisis\" to the \"Resident Evil\" series while also drawing comparisons to \"Jurassic Park\" and describing the game as \"\"Resident Evil\" with dinosaurs\". Despite these similarities, reviewers found the game \"enhances and alters\" the \"Resident Evil\" formula with \"strength of its own merits.\" The game was a commercial success, being a bestseller in Japan. During its debut week in Japan, \"Dino Crisis\" achieved sales above 300,000 units, making it the country's best-selling game from July 14 through July 21. The PlayStation version of the game ultimately sold 2.4 million copies worldwide, and is listed as Capcom \"Platinum Title\".\n\nCritics generally praised the action and intensity of the game, which was heightened by the real-time engine and soundtrack. \"GamePro\" found the game to have a great mix of action and strategy, with dinosaur AI that keeps the action fresh. IGN described the game as \"vicious, flesh-tearing fright,\" noting the fast-paced gameplay during action sequences. Some praise was directed towards the realism of the game, with the dinosaur behaviors and bleeding mechanics noted. The real-time graphics were generally liked, with critics describing them as \"sharp\", \"sterile\", and \"clean\". GameSpot praised the character models, lighting effects, and found \"the use of polygonal backgrounds enhances the feeling of fear even more than Resident Evil.\" The dinosaurs were a consistent point of discussion among critics. \"GamePro\" found the dinosaurs \"imbued with an excellent AI that keeps the action fresh and exciting\", although some found the variety of dinosaurs to be lacking. Despite the game being \"90% Raptors\", which IGN found not as scary as monsters from \"Resident Evil\", they found the dinosaur sound effects to be well done.\n\nGame Revolution had a more critical review of \"Dino Crisis\" than others, saying the game expanded on the worse elements of \"Resident Evil\" while also ruining the good elements. They were impressed by the graphics but thought the environments looked too similar and got boring after a short time. Overall, they believed the game to be worse than \"Resident Evil 2\", pointing out the game's shorter length, more tedious puzzles, weaker action, and lesser scare factor.\n\nThe Dreamcast and Windows ports received mixed reviews from multiple sources, criticized for adding very little enhancements to take advantage of their superior hardware. The graphics were viewed as dated on Windows, with IGN calling it \"choppy\" and pointing out the poor resolution upscaling. The Dreamcast port was essentially identical to the PlayStation version, with a graphical advantage of not suffering from the texture-distortion effect produced by the PlayStation. On the Dreamcast, \"\", another Capcom survival horror game, was viewed as a superior experience.\n\nAn action-shooter sequel titled \"Dino Crisis 2\" was released for the PlayStation in 2000 to positive reception. In 2002, Capcom released \"Dino Stalker\", a lightgun game for the PlayStation 2 to mixed reviews. Finally, an action-based game, \"Dino Crisis 3\", was released in 2003 for the Xbox to mixed reviews. The protagonist of \"Dino Crisis\", Regina, has been featured as a playable character in the tactical role-playing game \"Namco x Capcom\" for the PlayStation 2. Her outfit is also available to wear in \"\" and in \"Dead Rising 3\" via downloadable content.\n\n"}
{"id": "1812329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812329", "title": "The Atlantic Paranormal Society", "text": "The Atlantic Paranormal Society\n\nThe Atlantic Paranormal Society (TAPS) is an organization that investigates reported paranormal activity. Based in Warwick, Rhode Island, TAPS was founded in 1990 by Jason Hawes and Grant Wilson. In 2004, the organization itself became the subject of \"Ghost Hunters\", a popular weekly American paranormal reality television series on the Syfy channel. The show ran for eleven seasons on Syfy in the US. The show aired in the UK nine months after the US premier on \"Living It\".\n\nIn 1990, Hawes began the \"Rhode Island Paranormal Society\", after having a personal experience with spirits. After RIPS began investigating cases throughout the New England area, Jason met up with Grant Wilson in 1995 and renamed it \"The Atlantic Paranormal Society.\" Wilson had also had a personal experience. Neither man talks about it in public. The group was originally run out of Jason's basement, and at that time consisted only of Jason and Grant. They pioneered investigative techniques that many other paranormal investigators use. In 2003 they were approached by Pilgrim Films and taped ten episodes of \"Ghost Hunters\" for the Sci Fi (now SyFy) channel.\n\nStarting in 2007, Jason and Grant began releasing a series of books related to their work and experiences in the paranormal as well as several fiction books.\n\nTAPS publishes a bi-monthly publication called \"TAPS Paramagazine\" (also known as \"TAPS Para Mag\"), which features articles written by group members and information pertaining to the paranormal. Hawes stated in an interview on the skeptical podcast 'Audiomartini' that the magazine is marketed primarily in an attempt to \"fund the TAPS operation.\" The magazine itself states that \"TAPS Para Magazine is a financial sponsor of The Atlantic Paranormal Society.\" The average issue is approximately 39 pages in length and in 2006 was marketed by offering a behind-the-scenes DVD of the show to new subscribers.\n\nIn April 2007, \"Beyond Reality Radio\", a radio talk show that featured TAPS co-founders and \"Ghost Hunters\" stars Jason Hawes and Grant Wilson, began broadcasting on select radio stations in the New England area. Airing Saturdays from 7-10 PM, Jason and Grant interviewed guests about the Paranormal and allowed listeners to call in to contribute to the discussion. The show was produced by Amy Bruni, with help from Dave Gardiner. During the show listeners could visit the official TAPS website and chat about the show or any other subjects in a moderated chat room. In 2012, Grant Wilson left \"Ghost Hunters\" and \"Beyond Reality Radio\". Later on, the publisher/editor of \"TAPS Para-magazine\", JV Johnson took on the role of co-host. \"Beyond Reality Radio\" is currently on the air Monday through Thursday, midnight-2am ET. \n\nIn July 2006 TAPS began releasing podcasts, \"TAPS Para-Radio\", featuring Hawes and Wilson, on a sporadic basis.\n\nOn December 1, 2007, TAPS released a video game in conjunction with Star Mountain Studios called \"Apparitions: Red Reef Inn\". Available online for PC & Mac, TAPS co-founder Grant Wilson claims that this game is just the start of larger efforts in the interactive media space from TAPS in the future. In January 2010 TAPS and Star Mountain Studios released a hidden object game entitled \"Apparitions: Kotsmine Hills\".\n\nTAPS sends a group of 3 to 8 members to perform an 8- to 16-hour investigation, covering multiple nights, employing a number of infrared and digital video cameras, thermal camera devices, EMF (electromagnetic field) detectors, digital thermometers and other equipment throughout the site in question. While at a site, the members of the team often find common explanations for the claims of the occupants. In conclusion, the team will report on its findings, and express their opinion that a site is \"haunted\" or \"not haunted.\" They distinguish themselves from other paranormal groups by going into a case by claiming they wish to disprove a haunting. TAPS does not charge their clients for the investigations or consulting.\n\nAccording to investigator Benjamin Radford most ghost hunting groups including TAPS make many methodological mistakes. \"After watching episodes of \"Ghost Hunters\" and other similar programs, it quickly becomes clear to anyone with a background in science that the methods used are both illogical and unscientific\". Anyone can be a ghost investigator, \"failing to consider alternative explanations for anomalous ... phenomena\", considering emotions and feelings as \"evidence of ghostly encounters\". \"Improper and unscientific investigation methods\" for example \"using unproven tools and equipment\", \"sampling errors\", \"ineffectively using recording devices\" and \"focusing on the history of the location...and not the phenomena\". In his article for \"Skeptical Inquirer\" Radford concludes that ghost hunters should care about doing a truly scientific investigation: \"I believe that if ghosts exist, they are important and deserve to be taken seriously. Most of the efforts to investigate ghosts so far have been badly flawed and unscientific --- and, not surprisingly, fruitless.\"\n\nIn 2006, a website called \"SAPS\" (\"Skeptical Analysis of the Paranormal Society\") conducted an investigation into the status and legitimacy of the TAPS non-profit status. In several places on their website it stated that they were non-profit and did investigations free of charge, however did accept donations and held a raffle to win various branded merchandise. The site claimed that repeated attempts to clarify the subject was met with negative responses. It broadened its investigation by searching for its status both federally and at the state level and found no evidence that they were a registered non-profit organization. They also found that the raffle was in violation of the state's gambling laws as it allowed those that could be under the age of 18 to participate.\n\nIn February 2007, TAPS issued a statement regarding the status. It stated that they, \"...by no means meant to give the appearance that we had non-profit status. By this, we meant that we do not make any profit at all from investigating. We couldn't simply say 'TAPS makes no money whatsoever' because TAPS does gather meager funds from the occasional donation and membership dues. The money that comes in does NOT come from the client in direct relation to a case, nor does it go into anyone's pocket. So, therefore we used the term non-profit.\"\n\nThey have since changed non-profit to \"free volunteer organization\" to clear up any misconceptions and have been working on filing for the appropriate status but claim that it is very difficult for a paranormal group to do in Rhode Island.\n\nMembers of TAPS can be found worldwide. TAPS has also made honorary members of some celebrities who have participated in investigations filmed for the \"Ghost Hunters\" TV series, several of whom, such as Tapping and The Miz, appear in programming produced by the show's parent network, Syfy. They include the following people.\n\nMany paranormal investigation groups network and assist similar member groups across the nation and around the world. TAPS invites paranormal research organizations into its own network, and may refer cases to them. These organizations are part of a network called the TAPS Family. Member organizations put a \"TAPS Family Member\" banner on their websites, which link to The Atlantic Paranormal Society's web page. A list of member organizations is available at the TAPS Family Website.\n\n"}
{"id": "1812330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812330", "title": "Vehicle registration plates of Idaho", "text": "Vehicle registration plates of Idaho\n\nThe U.S. state of Idaho first required its residents to register their motor vehicles and display license plates in 1913. Plates are currently issued by the Division of Motor Vehicles (DMV) of the Idaho Transportation Department. Front and rear plates are required on all vehicles except for motorcycles and trailers.\n\nIn 1956, the United States, Canada, and Mexico came to an agreement with the American Association of Motor Vehicle Administrators, the Automobile Manufacturers Association and the National Safety Council that standardized the size for license plates for vehicles (except those for motorcycles) at in height by in width, with standardized mounting holes. The 1956 (dated 1957) issue was the first Idaho license plate that fully complied with these standards: the issues from 1952 through 1955 (dated 1953 through 1956) were all six inches in height by twelve inches in width, but had non-standard mounting holes.\n\nThe current county-coding system on standard-issue Idaho license plates has been in use since 1945. The naming convention is the order of the county in an alphabetical list followed by the first letter of the county name. For example, codice_1 indicates the second county beginning with codice_2 in an alphabetical list, or Twin Falls County. If only one county begins with a particular letter, the letter alone serves as the county code. Specialty and vanity license plates do not use county codes; some non-passenger types are county-coded, while others are not.\n\n"}
{"id": "1812350", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812350", "title": "Meenakshi", "text": "Meenakshi\n\nMeenakshi (also known as Meenatchi and Tadadakai), is a Hindu goddess and tutelary deity of Madurai who is considered an avatar of the Goddess Parvati. She is the divine consort of Sundareswarar, a form of Shiva. She finds mention in literatures as the princess or queen of the ancient Pandya kingdom who elevates to godhood. The goddess is also extolled by Adi Shankara as Shri Vidya.\n\nShe is mainly worshipped in South India where she has a major temple devoted to her known as the Meenakshi Temple in Madurai, Tamil Nadu.\n\n\"Meenakshi\" is a Tamil-Sanskrit term meaning \"fish-eyed\", derived from the words \"mina\" (\"fish\") and \"akshi\" (\"eyes\"). She was earlier known by the Tamil name \"Tadadakai\" (\"fish-eyed one\")\",\" mentioned in early historical account as a fierce, unmarried and meat-eating goddess which was later sanskritised as Meenakshi. She is also known by the Tamil name \"Angayarkanni\" or \"Ankayarkannammai\" (literally, \"the mother with the beautiful fish eyes\"). According to another theory, the name of the goddess literally means \"rule of the fish\", derived from the Tamil words \"meen\" (fish) and \"aatchi\" (rule).\n\nVarious meanings of this appellation have been suggested, including that she was originally a goddess of the fisher-folk, that her eyes are \"large and brilliant\" like that of a fish, or that she has \"long and slender\" eyes shaped like the body of a fish. Another interpretation is that the name is based on the belief that the fish never close their eyes: the goddess similarly never stops watching over her devotees. Yet another interpretation states that the name is based on the ancient belief that the fish feed their young by merely looking at them; the goddess supposedly supports here devotees by merely glancing at them.\n\nSeveral great hymns on the goddess were composed in the early modern period by many saints and scholars, including the famous Neelakanta Dikshitar. The stotram Meenakshi Pancharatnam (Five Jewels of Meenakshi), composed by Adi Sankaracharya (8th century AD), is an incantation to her. Meenakshi does not directly appear in the stotram Lalita Sahasranama, though there is a reference to her in the line \"Vakthra lakshmi parivaha chalan meenabha lochana\" (She who has auspiciousness and glory of Lakshmi and has beautiful eyes which look like fish in the pond of her face).\n\nOne Tamil poem/song (Tamilpillai) portrays Meenakshi as the intersection of domesticity and divinity and as a global icon for all who deal with \"impossible\" children or husbands:The great Shiva with the metel flower / Wanders through the courtyard of space / Destroying your work again and again / And then he comes before you. // You never get angry. / Every day you just pick up the vessels.\n\nThe 13th century Tamil text \"Tiruvilaiyatarpuranam\", mentions king Malayadhwaja Pandya and his wife Kanchanamalai who performed a yajna seeking a son for succession. Instead a daughter is born who is already 3 year old and has three breasts. Shiva intervenes and says that the parents should treat her like a son, and when she meets her husband, she will lose the third breast. They follow the advice. The girl grows up, the king crowns her as the successor and when she meets Shiva, his words come true, she takes her true form of Meenakshi. According to Harman, this may reflect the matrilineal traditions in South India and the regional belief that \"penultimate [spiritual] powers rest with the women\", gods listen to their spouse, and that the fate of kingdoms rest with the women. According to Susan Bayly, the reverence for Meenakshi is a part of the Hindu goddess tradition that integrates with the Dravidian Hindu society where the \"woman is the lynchpin of the system\" of social relationships. Her eyes are fabled to bring life to the unborn.\n\nThe temple complex at Madurai, Tamil Nadu in India is dedicated to Meenakshi as the primary deity. It is also referred to as Meenakshi Amman or Minakshi-Sundareshwara Temple. Meenakshi's shrine is next to that of her consort \"Sundareswar\", a form of Shiva.\n\nThough the temple has historic roots, most of the present campus structure was rebuilt after the 14th century CE, further repaired, renovated and expanded in the 17th century by Tirumala Nayaka. In early 14th century, the armies of Delhi Sultanate led by Muslim Commander Malik Kafur plundered the temple, looted it of its valuables and destroyed the Madurai temple town along with many other temple towns of South India. The contemporary temple is the result of rebuilding efforts started by the Vijayanagara Empire rulers who rebuilt the core and reopened the temple. In the 16th century, the temple complex was further expanded and fortified. The restored complex houses 14 \"gopurams\" (gateway towers), each above in height. The complex has numerous sculpted pillared halls such as Ayirakkal (1,000 pillar hall), Kilikoondu-mandapam, Golu-mandapam and Pudu-mandapam. Its shrines are dedicated to Hindu deities and Shaivism scholars, with the \"vimanas\" above the \"garbhagrihas\" (sanctums) of Meenakshi and Sundaresvara gilded with gold.\n\nThe temple is a major pilgrimage destination within the Shaivism tradition, dedicated to Meenakshi Devi and Shiva. However, the temple includes Vishnu in many narratives, sculptures and rituals as he is considered to be Meenakshi's brother. This has made this temple and Madurai as the \"southern Mathura\", one included in Vaishnava texts. The large temple complex is the most prominent landmark in Madurai and attracts tens of thousands visitors a day. The temple attracts over a million pilgrims and visitors during the annual 10-day Meenakshi Tirukalyanam festival, celebrated with much festivities and a \"ratha\" (chariot) procession during the Tamil month of Chittirai (overlaps with April–May in Georgian calendar, Chaitra in North India).\n\n"}
{"id": "1812351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812351", "title": "Mindwalk", "text": "Mindwalk\n\nMindwalk is a 1990 feature film directed by Bernt Amadeus Capra, adapted from his short story based on \"The Turning Point\", a non-fiction book by his brother Fritjof Capra, who also authored \"The Tao of Physics\".\n\nThe movie portrays a wide-ranging conversation among three characters: Sonia, a Norwegian physicist who abandoned a lucrative career after discovering that elements of her work were being applied to weapons development, Jack, an American politician attempting to make sense of his recent defeat as a presidential candidate, and Tom, a poet, Jack's close friend, and a disillusioned former political speechwriter, while they wander around Mont Saint-Michel, France. The movie introduces systems theory and systems thinking, along with insights into modern physical theories such as quantum mechanics and particle physics. \n\nPolitical and social problems, and alternative solutions, are a focus of the film. However, the specific problems and solutions are not the primary concern; rather, different perspectives are presented through which these problems can be viewed and considered. Sonia Hoffman's perspective is referred to as the holistic, or systems theory, perspective. Thomas Harriman, the poet, recites the poem \"Enigmas\" by Pablo Neruda (based on the translation by Robert Bly) at the end of the movie, concluding the core discussion.\n\nThe movie was filmed on site at the Mont Saint-Michel and has views of (and scenes conceptually based around) many structures and features there, including the approach over the tidal flats, the cathedral, the walkways, a torture chamber, and a giant, ancient clock mechanism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1812364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812364", "title": "Eumycetoma", "text": "Eumycetoma\n\nEumycetoma is a chronic granulomatous fungal disease of humans, affecting mainly the limbs, and sometimes the abdominal and chest walls or the head. \"Mycetoma pedis\" (mycetoma of the foot), the most common form of mycetoma, is known widely as the Madura foot. The infection is endemic in Africa, India and Central and South America. The disease is also found in other areas but not on an endemic scale.\n\nThe initial lesion is a small subcutaneous swelling following minor trauma. Later, sinuses that discharge purulent and seropurulent exudates containing grains which are fungal colonies are formed. Destruction of deeper tissues, and deformity and loss of function in the affected limbs may occur in later stages.\n\nMycetoma may be caused by bacteria from the phylum Actinomycetes, or by fungi (Eumycetes) where it is called eumycetoma. Bacterial and fungal species that can cause mycetoma are listed below under their characteristic colours of discharge from infected wounds:\n\nRed discharge\n\nWhite or yellow discharge\n\nBlack discharge\n\nSome species of the bacterial genus \"Nocardia\" (including \"Nocardia asteroides\" and \"Nocardia brasiliensis\") which can cause mycetoma produce a yellow discharge, and those of the bacterial genus \"Streptomyces\" (including \"Streptomyces somaliensis\") produce a yellow or red discharge.\n\nThe disease is usually seen in field workers like farmers, and generally affects men between 20 and 40 years. The disease is acquired by inoculation of grains of fungal spores from the soil through a breach in the skin produced by minor trauma like a thorn prick. The disease then spreads to deeper tissues and also forms sinus tracts leading to skin surface. Mature lesions are characterised by a grainy discharge from these sinuses. These discharges contain fungal colonies and are infective. Spread of infection internally through blood or lymph is uncommon.\n\nInfections that produce a black discharge mainly spread subcutaneously. In the red and yellow varieties deep spread occurs early, infiltrating muscles and bones but sparing nerves and tendons, which are highly resistant to the invasion.\n\nBotryomycosis, also known as bacterial pseudomycosis, produces a similar clinical picture and is caused usually by \"Staphylococcus aureus\". Other bacteria may also cause botryomycosis.\n\nDiagnosis of mycetoma is usually established clinically in endemic areas. \nX rays and ultrasonography may be employed in evaluating the extent of the disease. X rays findings are extremely variable. The disease is most often observed at an advanced stage that exhibits extensive destruction of all bones of the foot. Rarely, a single lesion may be seen in the tibia where the picture is identical with chronic osteomyelitis. Cytology of fine needle aspirate or pus from the lesion, and tissue biopsy may be undertaken sometimes. Some publications have claimed a \"dot in a circle sign\" as a characteristic MRI feature for this condition (this feature has also been described on ultrasound).\n\nThe following clinical conditions may be considered before diagnosing a patient with mycetoma:\n\nNo vaccine is available. Simple hygienic precautions like wearing shoes or sandals while working in fields, and washing hands and feet at regular intervals may help prevent the disease.\n\nDrugs like ketoconazole,\nvoriconazole, and itraconazole are generally employed in treating the infection. Actinomycetes usually respond well to medical treatment, but the eumycetes are generally resistant and may require surgical interventions including salvage procedures as bone resection or even the more radical amputation.\n\nThe disease is endemic in tropical and subtropical regions. The exact incidence and geographical distribution of mycetoma throughout the world is not known as the disease is usually painless, slowly progressive and presented to health centres only in late stages by majority of patients. Mycetoma has an uneven worldwide distribution.\n\nMadura foot or maduromycosis or maduramycosis is described in ancient writings of India as \"Padavalmika\", which, translated means \"Foot anthill\". The first modern description of Madura foot was made in 1842 from Madurai (the city after which the disease was named \"Madura\" mycosis) in India, by Gill. The fungal cause of the disease was established in 1860 by Carter.\n"}
{"id": "1812371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812371", "title": "Nicole Parker", "text": "Nicole Parker\n\nNicole Frances Parker (born February 21, 1978) is an American actress, comedian, writer, and singer. She is best known for her work on Fox's sketch comedy show \"Mad TV\" (2003–2009, 2016). In July 2009, she concluded her run as Elphaba in the Broadway production of \"Wicked\", a role that she reprised on tour across North America. Since 2017, Parker has voiced Penelope Pitstop in the \"Wacky Races\" animated series. She has also appeared in the parody films \"Meet the Spartans\" (2008) and \"Disaster Movie\" (2008).\n\nIn her hometown of Irvine, California, she performed at South Coast Repertory and Laguna Playhouse. She also studied Theatre and Voice at Indiana University and performed in an improv troupe called Full Frontal Comedy. After college, Parker performed at the Edinburgh Fringe Festival, the Second City in Chicago, Bloemendaal, Unhinged Academy and Groningen. In addition, she and some college friends formed a theater company in New York City called Waterwell Productions. Parker moved to Amsterdam for two years, where she performed in the comedy show Boom Chicago alongside \"MADtv\" alumni Ike Barinholtz and Jordan Peele.\n\nIn 2003, Parker joined the Season 9 cast of \"Mad TV\". She was a featured performer, until Season 10, when she was promoted to cast member. Parker left the show in November 2008, but appeared in sketches until the series finale in 2009.\n\nParker's most notable characters include Pat-Beth LaMontrose and the Disney Girl. She also had impersonated many notable celebrities, mostly singers such as Britney Spears, Ashlee and Jessica Simpson, Julie Andrews, James Blunt, and Judy Garland.\n\n\n\nIn 2004, Parker was nominated for a Jeff Award for her performance in \"The People vs. Friar Laurence, The Man Who Killed Romeo and Juliet\".\n\nFrom July 2006 to January 2007, Parker performed in the comedy musical \"\".\n\nIn 2009, Parker replaced Marcie Dodd in the role of Elphaba in the Broadway production of the musical \"Wicked\", from January 16. She starred opposite Alli Mauzey as Glinda. She exited on July 19 at the end of her six-month contract, and was replaced by Dee Roscioli.\n\nParker starred in the new musical \"The People in the Picture\", which began performances at Studio 54 on April 1, 2011 and officially opened on April 28, 2011.\n\nParker again starred as Elphaba in \"Wicked\" on the show's first North American tour. She reunited with Mauzey beginning performances in Denver, Colorado May 18, 2012. She replaced Mamie Parris. She later left the production on September 24, 2012.\n\nParker frequently guest performs in the improvisational comedy show \"Cookin' With Gas\" at The Groundlings Theatre in Hollywood, California.\n\n"}
{"id": "1812373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812373", "title": "Maronite Church", "text": "Maronite Church\n\nThe Maronite Church is an Eastern Catholic \"sui iuris\" particular church in full communion with the pope and the worldwide Catholic Church, with self-governance under the Code of Canons of the Eastern Churches. It is headed by Patriarch Bechara Boutros al-Rahi since 2011, seated in Bkerke north of Beirut, Lebanon. Officially known as the Syriac Maronite Church of Antioch, it is part of Syriac Christianity by liturgy and heritage.\n\nEstablishment of the Maronite Church can be divided into three periods, from the 4th to the 7th centuries. A congregation movement, with Saint Maroun from the Taurus Mountains as an inspirational leader and patron saint, marked the first period. The second began with the establishment of the Monastery of Saint Maroun on the Orontes, built after the Council of Chalcedon to defend the doctrines of the Council. This monastery was described as the \"greatest monastery\" in the region of \"Secunda Syria\", with more than 300 hermitages around it, according to ancient records. After 518, the monastery \"de facto\" administered many parishes in \"Prima Syria\", \"Cole Syria\" and \"Phoenicia\". The third period was when \"Sede Vacante\" followed the Islamic conquest of the region and bishops of the Saint Maroun Monastery elected John Maron as Patriarch around 685 AD, according to the Maronite tradition. The Greek Orthodox Church of Antioch re-established their patriarchate in 751 AD. Other centers of historical importance include Kfarhay, Yanouh, Mayfouq and Qadisha Valley.\n\nAlthough reduced in numbers today, Maronites remain one of the principal ethno-religious groups in Lebanon, with smaller minorities of Maronites in Syria, Cyprus, Israel, and Jordan. Emigration since the 19th century mean that about two-thirds of its 3,000,000 members are located outside \"The Antiochian's Range\", where they are part of the worldwide Lebanese diaspora.\n\nThe Maronite Church () is officially known as the Syriac Maronite Church of Antioch (; ; \" al-Kanīsa al-Anṭākiyya al-Suryāniyya al-Mārūniyya).\n\nSt Maroun is considered the founder of the spiritual and monastic movement now called the Maronite Church. This movement has had a profound influence in Lebanon, and to a lesser degree in Syria, Jordan and Palestine. Saint Maroun spent his life on a mountain in Syria, generally believed to be \"\"Kefar-Nabo\"\" on the mountain of \"Ol-Yambos\" in the Taurus Mountains, contemporary Turkey, becoming the cradle of the Maronite movement established in the Monastery of Saint Maron.\n\nThe six major traditions of the Catholic Church are Alexandrian, Antiochene, Armenian, Chaldean, Constantinopolitan (Byzantine), and Latin (Roman). The Maronite Church follows the Antiochene Tradition. A Roman Catholic may attend any Eastern Catholic Liturgy and fulfill his or her obligations at an Eastern Catholic Parish. That is, a Roman Catholic may join any Eastern Catholic Parish and receive any sacrament from an Eastern Catholic priest since all belong to the Catholic Church. Maronites who do not reside within a convenient distance to a local Maronite Church are permitted to attend other Catholic churches while retaining their Maronite membership.\n\nThe Maronite Patriarchal Assembly (2003–2004) identified five distinguishing marks of the Maronite Church:\n\nSaint Maron, a fourth-century monk and a contemporary and friend of St. John Chrysostom, left Antioch for the Orontes River in modern-day Syria to lead an ascetic life, following the traditions of Anthony the Great of the Desert and of Pachomius. Many of his followers also lived a monastic lifestyle.\n\nFollowing Maron's death in 410 AD, his disciples built Beth-Maron monastery at Apamea (present day Qalaat al-Madiq). This formed the nucleus of the Maronite Church. In 452, after the Council of Chalcedon, the monastery was expanded by the Byzantine emperor Marcian.\n\nThe Maronite movement reached Lebanon when St. Maron's first disciple, Abraham of Cyrrhus, who was called the \"Apostle of Lebanon\", set out to convert the non-Christians by introducing them to St. Maron.\n\nThe Maronites subscribed to the beliefs of the Council of Chalcedon in 451. Monophysites of Antioch slew 350 monks and burned the monastery, although Justinian I later restored the walls. Correspondence concerning the event brought the Maronites papal and orthodox recognition, indicated by a letter from Pope Hormisdas (514–523) dated 10 February 518. Representatives from Beth-Maron participated in the Constantinople synods of 536 and 553.\n\nAn outbreak of civil war during the reign of Emperor Phocas brought forth riots in the cities of Syria and Palestine and incursions by Persian King Khosrow II. In 609, the Patriarch of Antioch, Anastasius II, was killed either at the hands of some soldiers or locals. This left the Maronites without a leader, which continued because of the final Byzantine–Sassanid War of 602–628.\n\nIn the aftermath of the war, the Emperor Heraclius propagated a new Christological doctrine in an attempt to unify the various Christian churches of the East, who were divided over accepting the Council of Chalcedon. This doctrine, the unity of Christ's will with God's, was meant as a compromise between supporters of Chalcedon, such as the Maronites, and opponents, such as the Jacobites. The doctrine was endorsed by Pope Honorius I to win back the Monophysites but problems soon arose (see his anathematization).\n\nInstead, the unity of Christ's will with God's (\"mia\"-thelitism) was misunderstood as Monothelitism (that Christ and God have only one will) which caused even greater controversy, and was declared a heresy at the Third Council of Constantinople in 680–681. The Council condemned both Honorius and Patriarch Sergius I of Constantinople but did not mention the Maronites.\n\nContemporary Greek and Arab sources misrepresented the miathelite Maronites as having rejected the third council and accepted monothelitism, and that the miathelites in fact maintained monothelitism for centuries, only moving away from it in the time of the crusades in order to avoid being branded heretics by the crusaders. The Maronite Church, however, rejects the assertion that the Maronites were ever monothelites or apart from the Roman Catholic Church; and the question remains a matter of controversy. Elias El-Hāyek attributes much of the confusion to Eutyches of Alexandria, whose \"Annals\" contain erroneous material regarding the early Maronite Church, which was then picked up by William of Tyre and others.\n\nDuring the start of the patriarchs periods, the persecution of Christians and Arabization of the region, including the destruction of the Monastery of Saint Maron, led the majority of the Maronites to move to the barren mountains of Lebanon, especially the northern territory. They established a closed, rural, hierarchical society; re-established their communications with the Papacy during the Crusades; maintained Syriac up to the 18th century; and shifted to Lebanese Arabic as their native language. They issued many liturgical reforms, most notably during Qannoubin's council of 1580, and the Lebanese council of 1736 – which seems in many parts to be a Latinization- gained protection from the Monarchy of France for the church and its community. They organised the monastery in 1696. They played an influential role in Lebanon's political scene especially after 1770 when the Chehab dynasty joined the Maronite Church. That choice was an essential element of the creation of Greater Lebanon in 1920, seen widely by scholars as fulfillment of the Maronites' desire. However, due to mass emigration and eventually the Lebanese Civil War (1975–1990), the Maronite role in the Second Lebanese Republic declined.\n\nThe Patriarch of Antioch Anastasius II died in 609, and Constantinople began to appoint a series of titular patriarchs, who resided in Constantinople. In 685, the Maronites elected Bishop John Maron of Batroun as Patriarch of Antioch and all the East. Through him, later Maronites claimed full apostolic succession through the Patriarchal See of Antioch. While this installation of a patriarch was seen as a usurpation by the Orthodox hierarchy, John received the approval of Pope Sergius I, and became the first Maronite Patriarch of the oldest see in Christianity.\n\nIn 687, as part of an agreements with Abd al-Malik ibn Marwan, Byzantine emperor Justinian II sent 12,000 Christian Maronites from Lebanon to Armenia, in exchange for a substantial payment and half the revenues of Cyprus. There they were conscripted as rowers and marines in the Byzantine navy. Additional resettlement efforts allowed Justinian to reinforce naval forces depleted by earlier conflicts. The Maronites struggled to retain their autonomy against both imperial power and Arab incursions on the part of the Damascus Caliphate.\n\nMaron established himself in the remote Qadisha Valley in Lebanon. In 694, Justinian sent troops against the Maronites in an unsuccessful attempt to capture the Patriarch. Maron died in 707 at the Monastery of St. Maron in Lebanon. Around 749 the Maronite community, in the Lebanon mountains, built the Mar-Mama church at Ehden. Meanwhile, caught between the Byzantines and the Arabs, the monastery at Beth-Maron struggled to survive.\n\nAfter they came under Arab rule following the Muslim conquest of Syria (634–638), Maronite immigration to Lebanon, which had begun some time before, increased, intensifying under the Abbasid caliph al-Ma'mun (813–33). The Maronites experienced an improvement in their relationship with the Byzantine Empire. Emperor Constantine IV (reigned 668–685) provided direct ecclesiastical, political and military support to the Maronites. The new alliance coordinated devastating raids on Muslim forces, providing a welcome relief to besieged Christians throughout the Middle East.\n\nDuring this period the region was dominated by the Abbasids, who persecuted the Maronites. Around AD 1017, a new Muslim sect, the Druze, emerged. At that time the Maronites, as dhimmis, were required to wear black robes and black turbans and they were forbidden to ride horses.\n\nTo eliminate internal dissent, from 1289 to 1291 Egyptian Mamluk troops descended on Mount Lebanon, destroying forts and monasteries.\n\nFollowing the Muslim conquest of Eastern Christendom outside Anatolia and Europe in the 7th century and after the establishment of secured lines of demarcation between Islamic Caliphs and Byzantine Emperors, little was heard from the Maronites for 400 years. Secure in their mountain strongholds, the Maronites were re-discovered in the mountains near Tripoli, Lebanon, by Raymond of Toulouse on his way to conquer Jerusalem in the Great Crusade of 1096–1099. Raymond later returned to besiege Tripoli (1102–1109) after the conquest of Jerusalem in 1099, and relations between the Maronites and European Christianity were re-established.\n\nThe Maronites assisted the crusaders and affirmed their affiliation with the Holy See of Rome in 1182. To commemorate their communion, Maronite Patriarch Youseff Al Jirjisi received the crown and staff, marking his patriarchal authority, from Pope Paschal II in 1100 AD. In 1131, Maronite Patriarch Gregorios Al-Halati received letters from Pope Innocent II in which the Papacy recognized the authority of the Patriarchate of Antioch. Patriarch Jeremias II Al-Amshitti (1199–1230) became the first Maronite Patriarch to visit Rome when he attended the Fourth Council of the Lateran in 1215. The Patriarchate of Antioch was also represented at the Council of Ferrara in 1438.\n\nPeter Hans Kolvenbach notes, \"This contact with the Latin Church enriched the intellectual world of Europe in the Middle Ages. Maronites taught Oriental languages and literature at the universities of Italy and France.\"\n\nIn the Ottoman Empire, indigenous concentrated religious communities dealt mainly with the provincial administration. Officially, Maronites had to pay the \"jizya\" tax as non-Muslims, but sometimes the monks and clergy were exempt because they were considered to be \"poor\".\n\nFakhr-al-Din II (1572 – 1635) was a Druze prince and a leader of the Emirate of Chouf District in the governorate of Mount Lebanon. Maronite Abū Nādir al-Khāzin was one of his foremost supporters and served as Fakhr-al-Din's adjutant. Phares notes that \"The emirs prospered from the intellectual skills and trading talents of the Maronites, while the Christians gained political protection, autonomy and a local ally against the ever-present threat of direct Ottoman rule.\" In 1649, Patriarch Yuhanna al-Sufrari placed the Maronites under French protection, and the French opened a consulate in Beirut.\n\nThe Khāzin sheiks increased in power and influence. In 1662, with the mediation of Jesuit missionaries, Abū Nawfal al-Khāzin was named French consul, despite complaints by Marseille merchants that he wasn't from Marseille. The Church prospered from the protection and influence of the Khāzins, but at the expense of interference in church affairs, particularly ecclesiastical appointments, which the Khāzins saw as an extension of their political influence.\n\nIn 1610, the Maronite monks of the Monastery of Saint Anthony of Qozhaya imported one of the first printing presses in the Arabic-speaking world; however, that press printed in the Syriac language, not Arabic. The monasteries of Lebanon later became key players in the Arabic Renaissance of the late 19th century as a result of developing Arabic, as well as Syriac, printable script.\n\nBachir Chehab II was the first and last Maronite ruler of the Emirate of Mount Lebanon. A convert from Sunni Islam, his rivalry with the Druze leader Bashir Jumblatt caused tension between the two communities. In the 1822 war between Damascus and Acre, they backed opposite sides.\nThe relationship between the Druze and Christians has been characterized by harmony and coexistence, with amicable relations between the two groups prevailing throughout history, with the exception of some periods, including 1860 Mount Lebanon civil war. In the spring of 1860, war broke out between the Druze population and the Maronite Christians. The Ottoman authorities in Lebanon could not stop the violence and it spread into neighboring Syria, with the massacre of many Christians. In Damascus, the Emir Abd-el-Kadr protected the Christians there against the Muslim rioters.\nFrench emperor Napoleon III felt obliged to intervene on behalf of the Christians, despite London's opposition, which feared it would lead to a wider French presence in the Middle East. After arduous negotiations to obtain the approval of the British government, Napoleon III sent a French contingent of seven thousand men for a period of six months. The troops arrived in Beirut in August 1860 and took positions in the mountains between the Christian and Muslim communities. He then organized an international conference in Paris, where the country was placed under the rule of a Christian governor named by the Ottoman Sultan, which restored a fragile peace.\n\nMaronite orientalist Joseph Simon Assemani presided as papal legate for Pope Clement XII. The synod drafted a Code of Canons for the Maronite Church and created the first regular diocesan structure. The Council of Luwayza led to a more effective church structure and to gradual emancipation from the influence of Maronite families. Education was declared a major task. Through the joint efforts of the Church and French Jesuits, literacy became widespread.\n\nDue to closer ties with the Latin Church, the Maronite Church is among the most Latinized of the Eastern Catholic Churches, although there have been moves to return to Eastern practices.\n\nContacts between the Maronite monks and Rome date to the 5th century and were revived during the Crusades. The Maronites introduced to Eastern Churches Western devotional practices such as the rosary and the Stations of the Cross. Late in the 16th century, Pope Gregory XIII sent Jesuits to the Lebanese monasteries to ensure that their practice conformed to decisions made at the Council of Trent. The Maronite College in Rome was established by Gregory XIII in 1584. The Maronite missal (\"Qurbono\") was first printed between 1592 and 1594 in Rome, although with fewer anaphoras. The venerable Anaphora (Eucharistic Prayer) \"Sharrar\", attributed to St. Peter, was eliminated from later editions.\n\nPatriarch Stephan al-Duwayhî (1670–1704), (later declared a \"Servant of God\"), was able to find a middle ground between reformers and conservatives, and re-vitalized Maronite liturgical tradition.\n\nThe Synod of Mount Lebanon sought to incorporate both traditions. It formalized many of the Latin practices that had developed, but also attempted to preserve ancient Maronite liturgical tradition. The Synod did not sanction the exclusive use of the Roman ritual in the administration of Baptism. However, in the Eastern tradition, the oil of catechumens is blessed by the priest during the baptismal rite. This blessing was now reserved to the Chrism Mass of Holy Thursday. A practice common among all the Eastern Churches is to administer Baptism and First Communion together. As in the Latin Rite Holy Communion is to be given only to those who have attained the age of reason; priests were forbidden to give Communion to infants.\n\nIn \"Orientale lumen\", the Apostolic Letter to the Churches of the East, issued 2 May 1995, Pope John Paul II quotes \"Orientalium Ecclesiarum\", the Second Vatican Council's Decree on the Eastern Catholic Churches:It has been stressed several times that the full union of the Catholic Eastern Churches with the Church of Rome which has already been achieved must not imply a diminished awareness of their own authenticity and originality. Wherever this occurred, the Second Vatican Council has urged them to rediscover their full identity, because they have \"the right and the duty to govern themselves according to their own unique disciplines. For these are guaranteed by ancient tradition and seem to be better suited to the customs of their faithful and to the good of their souls.\"\n\nCardinal Sfeir's personal commitment accelerated liturgical reforms in the 1980s and 1990s. In 1992 he published a new Maronite Missal. This represents an attempt to return to the original form of the Antiochene Liturgy, removing the liturgical Latinization of past centuries. The Service of the Word has been described as far more enriched than in previous missals, and there are six Anaphoras.\n\nPatriarch Sfeir stated that \"Sacrosanctum concilium\" and the Roman liturgical changes following Vatican II apply to the Maronite Church. \"Sancrosanctum Concilium\" says, \"Among these principles and norms there are some which can and should be applied both to the Roman rite and also to all the other rites. The practical norms which follow, however, should be taken as applying only to the Roman rite, except for those which, in the very nature of things, affect other rites as well.\"\n\nThe head of the Maronite Church is the Patriarch of Antioch and the Whole Levant, who is elected by the Maronite bishops and resides in Bkerké, close to Jounieh, north of Beirut. He resides in the northern town of Dimane during the summer.\n\nThere are four other claimants to the Patriarchal succession of Antioch:\n\nThe Maronite Patriarch of Antioch and the Whole Levant since March 2011 is Bechara Boutros Rahi. When a new Patriarch is elected and enthroned, he requests ecclesiastical recognition by the Pope, thus maintaining communion with the Holy See. As an Eastern Catholic Patriarch, the Patriarch is usually created a Cardinal by the Pope in the rank of a Cardinal Bishop; he does however not receive a suburbicarian see (required to become Dean), even ranks below those six, but is known by the title of the patriarchate of his sui iuris Church.\n\nClerical celibacy is not strictly required for Maronite deacons and priests of parishes outside of North America; monks, however, must remain celibate, as well as bishops who are normally selected from the monasteries. Due to a long-term understanding with their Latin counterparts in North America, Maronite priests in that area have traditionally remained celibate. However, in February 2014, Wissam Akiki was ordained to the priesthood by Bishop A. Elias Zaidan of the U.S. Maronite Eparchy of Our Lady of Lebanon at St. Raymond's Maronite Cathedral in St. Louis. Deacon Akiki is the first married man to be ordained to the Maronite priesthood in North America and will not be expected to uphold a vow of celibacy.\n\nDespite the many archiepiscopates, none is a Metropolitan abstraction made of the Patriarch of Antioch, who has a single Suffragan (Jebbeh–Sarba–Jounieh) and hence an ecclesiastical province. In Latin America, two Maronite eparchies are suffragans of Latin metropolitans.\n\nThe Maronite church has twenty-six eparchies and patriarchal vicariates as follows:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe global Maronite population is not exactly known, but is estimated at more than 3 million, according to the Catholic Near East Welfare Association.\n\nAccording to the official site of the maronite church, approximately 1,062,000 Maronites live in Lebanon, where they constitute up to 22 -23 percent of the population. Syrian Maronites total 51,000, following the archdioceses of Aleppo and Damascus and the Diocese of Latakia. A Maronite community of about 10,000 lives in Cyprus that speaks Cypriot Maronite Arabic. A noticeable Maronite community exists in northern Israel (Galilee), numbering 7,504, famous for its preservation attempts of the Aramaic language and Aramean ethnic identity.\n\nImmigration of Maronite faithful from the Middle East to the United States began during the latter part of the nineteenth century. When the faithful were able to obtain a priest, communities were established as parishes under the jurisdiction of the local Latin bishops. In January 1966, Pope Paul VI established the Maronite Apostolic Exarchate for the Maronite faithful of the United States. In a decree of the Sacred Congregation for the Eastern Churches, Bishop Francis Mansour Zayek was appointed the first exarch. The see, in Detroit, Michigan, with a cathedral under the patronage of Saint Maron, was suffragan to the Archdiocese of Detroit. In 1971, Pope Paul VI elevated the Exarchate to the status of an Eparchy, with the name of Eparchy of Saint Maron of Detroit. In 1977, the see of the Eparchy of Saint Maron was transferred to Brooklyn, New York, with the cathedral under the patronage of Our Lady of Lebanon. The name of the Eparchy was modified to Eparchy of Saint Maron of Brooklyn.\n\nIn 1994, the Eparchy of Our Lady of Lebanon was established with the cathedral at Los Angeles, California, under the patronage of Our Lady of Lebanon. John George Chedid, auxiliary bishop of the Diocese of Saint Maron of Brooklyn, was ordained as the first Bishop of the Maronite Catholic Eparchy of Our Lady of Lebanon of Los Angeles at the Our Lady of Lebanon Cathedral in Los Angeles, California, where he served until he reached the mandatory retirement age of 80. In December 2000, Robert Joseph Shaheen succeeded Chedid as eparch.\n\nThe two eparchies in the United States have issued their own \"Maronite Census,\" designed to estimate the population of Maronites in the United States. Many have been assimilated into Western Catholicism absent Maronite parishes or priests. The \"Maronite Census\" was designed to locate these Maronites.\n\nEparchies operate in São Paulo in Brazil, as well as in Colombia, México, France, Australia, South Africa, Canada and Argentina.\n\nThe history of the Lebanese community in South Africa dates to the late 19th century, when the first immigrants arrived in Johannesburg, the biggest city in the Transvaal, having come from Sebhel, Mesyara, Becharre, Hadath El Jebbeh, Maghdouché and other places. It is recorded that in 1896, the first Maronite and Lebanese immigrants arrived in Durban, Cape Town, and Mozambique, and congregated around their local Catholic churches.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1812376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812376", "title": "Trần Văn Lắm", "text": "Trần Văn Lắm\n\nTrần Văn Lắm, also known as Charles Trần Văn Lắm (30 July 1913 – 6 February 2001), was Minister for Foreign Affairs for the Republic of Vietnam during the height of the Vietnam War.\n\nHe was one of of the Paris Peace Accord in 1973. He was the first Vietnamese Ambassador to Australia in the late 1950s and became the Minister for Foreign Affairs of South Vietnam in 1969. In 1973 he became the president of the Senate of South Vietnam. When Saigon fell in 1975, Trần Van Lam was required to sign an undertaking not to take part in any political activities as a condition for his entry into Australia. He moved to Canberra where he and his wife opened a coffee shop. On 6 February 2001, Charles Tran Van Lam died in his Canberra home, aged 88.\n\nThe son of a well-to-do ethnic Chinese real estate owner, Tran Van Lam was born in Saigon Cholon. He was educated at Hanoi University and trained as a pharmacist. He was the founding Secretary General of the Vietnam Pharmacists Association before his election to the Saigon City Council in 1952, near the end of French colonial rule.\n\nHe moved up to the national legislature and was speaker of the Constituent Assembly in the 1950s and the majority leader of the Assembly after that. In 1961, President Ngo Dinh Diem appointed him ambassador to Australia and New Zealand. \n\nA soft-spoken urbane diplomat fluent in French and English, he remained in the post after Diem's assassination in 1963. Mr. Lam returned to private life as chairman of the Vietnam Commercial and Industrial Bank from 1964 to 1967. In 1969 he became the Minister for Foreign Affairs of South Vietnam. \n\nAll Points of the Compass\nA Vietnamese Diaspora (2005)\nDirected by Judy Rymer, Australian Broadcasting Corporation \nCharles Trần Van Lam had the ill-fated destiny to be foreign minister of South Vietnam during the devastating war with the North. He was a patriot, committed to seeing his country emerge from its colonial history. He was also the father of nine children, who with his wife formed a seemingly privileged family, which dined together, had vacations at the beach, learned musical instruments, and were instilled with their Vietnamese identity. As the war intensified, he and his wife made provisions for the children to leave the country. The nine children were dispersed to Australia, France, the U.S. and Scotland. The hope was that they would be educated abroad and bring their talents back to their native country.\n\nThat was not to be. Trần Van Lam was betrayed by the United States, his ally against the North. While he was a delegate to the Paris peace talks, Henry Kissinger secretly arranged the pull out with the North. Fortunate to be airlifted out at the fall of Saigon, he and his wife finally emigrated to Australia with one small bag, where they ultimately opened a coffee shop.\n\nThe adult children, now in mid -career with families of their own, speak poignantly about their experience of dislocation.They each longed to be re-united as a family and had to struggle to forge a new identity in a foreign land. They were all deeply affected by their father's expectations to become accomplished and\"give back.\" Each one feels \"multicultural.\" All Points of the Compass is at once a gripping portrait of the \"immigrant experience\" and a new perspective on the American role in the Vietnam War.\nBest Documentary, ACT Film Awards, 2004\nBilan du Film Ethnographic, Paris, 2005\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1812379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812379", "title": "Isaac Boleslavsky", "text": "Isaac Boleslavsky\n\nIsaac Yefremovich Boleslavsky (, ; June 9, 1919 – February 15, 1977) was a Soviet chess player and writer.\n\nBorn in Zolotonosha, Boleslavsky taught himself chess at age nine. In 1933, he became schoolboy champion of Dnipropetrovsk. Three years later, he won third prize in the 1936 USSR All-Union Junior Championship, held in Leningrad.\n\nIn 1938, at nineteen, Boleslavsky won the Ukrainian Championship; the following year, he won the Ukraine SSR championship, qualified to play in the USSR Chess Championship at the age of 20, and gained his national chess master title. He earned a degree in philology at Sverdlovsk University.\n\nIn 1940, Boleslavsky played in the 12th USSR championship final in Moscow. He won eight of his last ten games and tied for fifth-sixth place with Mikhail Botvinnik, but lost their personal meeting. Thereafter he sought revenge. Later, Boleslavsky as an ambitious 27-year-old master recalled the plans he had hatched: I decided that by systematic work on myself I could win. \"The devil is not so terrible as he is painted.\" Losses to Botvinnik in both games in a match tournament in 1941 and in our game in the XIV national championship four years later did not sober me. It seemed to me that I understood Botvinnik's game and saw its strengths and weaknesses. I began to prepare for a meeting with him. I understood, of course, it was a completely different style of player than my style in those years. But I thought I had a chance to win.\n\nAt the end of 1940 he won the Ukrainian Championship for the third consecutive year. In March 1941, he took part in the match-tournament for the title of Absolute Champion of the USSR, finishing fourth of six participants. On the eve of the match-tournament, he had to pass an examination at the University, and his preparation for the chess event proved to be inadequate.\n\nIn 1945 he took second place in the 14th USSR championship, behind Mikhail Botvinnik. He won nine games, drew six, and lost two. He was awarded the Grandmaster title in the USSR. He made his international debut on third board of the USSR–USA radio match. He drew his first game with Reuben Fine and defeated him in the second game, winning a prize for the best game of the match. Boleslavsky secured a clear advantage in the opening thanks to his superior pawn structure and won without allowing Fine much counterplay. The Soviets regarded Fine as possibly the strongest American player, based on his international results in the pre-World War II era.\n\nIn 1946, his daughter Tatiana was born; she later married David Bronstein. Boleslavsky and Bronstein had become friends in the late 1930s, and remained so throughout their lives. In 1946, Boleslavsky played abroad in an international tournament for the first time in Groningen and tied for sixth-seventh place.\n\nIn 1950 Boleslavsky was one of the inaugural recipients of the International Grandmaster title from FIDE.\n\nIn the 1951 World Championship cycle, Boleslavsky qualified from the first-ever Interzonal at Saltsjöbaden 1948 into the Candidates Tournament two years later in Budapest. In the Candidates tournament—the winner of which would play a World Chess Championship match against Mikhail Botvinnik—he was the only undefeated player, and led for most of the tournament, but in the last round he was caught by Bronstein, who later won a playoff in Moscow later that same year (+3−2=9).\n\nThis turned out to be Boleslavsky's last chance as a serious contender for the world championship. In 1953, he participated in the Candidates' tournament in Zürich, but finished in 10th–11th places, and never qualified for subsequent world championship cycles.\n\nIn 1951, Boleslavsky was Bronstein's second during his match with Botvinnik for the world championship, which wound up drawn after 24 games. In 1952, he scored 7 out of 8 at the Helsinki Olympiad, helping the Soviet team to the gold medals. This was the only Olympiad he would play in his career, but he attended several others to provide support for the Soviet team.\n\nIn 1951 Boleslavsky moved to Minsk and that same year became the champion of this city (he repeated his victory in 1953/54). He won the Belarusian Championship in 1952 (joint) and 1964.\n\nIn 1961, he played in his last USSR Championship final. He took first place at an international tournament in Debrecen. He was world champion Tigran Petrosian's assistant from 1963 to 1969.\n\nIn 1968 he captained the USSR students' team, which won the World Championship at Ybbs. His last tournament appearance was in Minsk in 1971, at age 52. Boleslavsky was the chief trainer of the USSR Chess Federation in the 1960s, and he remained until his death a very well respected analyst and chess writer, particularly in opening theory.\n\nHe died in Minsk on February 15, 1977, at the age of 57, after falling on an icy sidewalk, fracturing his hip and contracting a fatal infection while in hospital.\n\nOne of Boleslavsky's main contributions to opening theory is the Boleslavsky Variation in the Sicilian Defence (1.e4 c5 2.Nf3 d6 3.d4 cxd4 4.Nxd4 Nf6 5.Nc3 Nc6 6.Be2 e5). A feature of the pawn structure in this line called the Boleslavsky hole is named after him.\n\nBoleslavsky, together with fellow Ukrainians Bronstein, Efim Geller, and Alexander Konstantinopolsky, beginning in the late 1930s, turned the King's Indian Defence from a suspect variation into one of the most popular defences today. Hans Kmoch in his book \"Pawn Power in Chess\" calls the King's Indian configuration of black pawns on c6 and d6 (especially if the d-pawn is on a semi-open file) \"the Boleslavsky Wall\".\n\nLev Polugaevsky said of him: I am convinced that any player, even the very strongest, can and should learn from his games (especially the Sicilians!). As regards his depth of penetration into the mysteries of the Sicilian Defence, for both sides moreover, it is doubtful if anyone could compare with Boleslavsky. He had a virtuoso feeling for the dynamics of the opening, and always aimed for a complicated and double-edged struggle, although by nature he was one of the most modest grandmasters with whom I have had the pleasure of rubbing shoulders.\n\nOne of his friends and disciples, Grandmaster Alexey Suetin, wrote in the magazine : Boleslavsky was a man of exceptional modesty and great culture. If it is difficult to imagine Boleslavsky without chess, it is simply impossible to imagine him without books. He perfectly knew history, classical literature, poetry ... a truly innovative man, proven by his remarkable debut of systems in the Sicilian and King's Indian, his research enriched a number of other current openings. Deep in book, his witty analyses in chess periodicals have long made Isaac Boleslavsky one of the leading theorists in the world.\n\nA book of his best games, published in 1990, won the prize as the best chess book published in Great Britain that year.\n\nIn the Sicilian, a certain pawn structure is named after him called the Boleslavsky hole. This is where Black elects to play ...e5 leaving a backward pawn on d6 and also creating a 'hole' on the d5-square which could potentially become an outpost for a white knight at some stage in the game and is therefore seen as a potential weakness for the black side. This kind of formation is a well known structural feature in the Najdorf (cf. the \"English attack\" in the classical sense), but it can be contrasted against related but different Sicilians where Black chooses to play e6 instead of the e5 move; this avoids creating a 'hole' on d5 and the position instead transposes into a Scheveningen type of setup. It is not the case that ...e5 is considered a weaker move to play than the slightly more timid ...e6, but it could possibly be considered to be in the spirit of a less cautious, more aggressive, playing style. Despite the potential drawbacks of e5, it serves the positive function of \"kicking\" the centralized white knight on d4 back to a more passive location either on Nb3 or (less commonly) where it was originally positioned on Nf3; it can also go to e2 and happens here in Adams' attack. It is also worth mentioning that the backward pawn on d6 is not so easily targeted by the white pieces due to the fact that it is usually well protected by Black's dark squared bishop occupying the e7-square. Another positive role of playing ...e5 in one move is that it stakes a claim on one of the central squares. Obviously enough, it is possible to play ...e6 to get to the Scheveningen type of pawn structure and play ...e5 afterwards, so in this sense through loss of one tempo there can be a transposition from one type of pawn structure into another. According to Andrew Soltis, after a Boleslavsky hole is created, the idea is not to keep the pawn on d6 backwards; at some stage in the game, if Black is permitted to play a ...d6–d5 pawn advance this will free his dark squared bishop, releasing the position and freeing his game. In the famous Bg5 Najdorf Sicilian, the pawn advance e5 is rarely ever played at the top level because the white knight can hop into the f5-square with good practical chances for securing an advantage.\n\nBoleslavsky had a plus record against Mikhail Tal (+2−0=3). He even beat Tal with the black pieces in Riga in 1958.\n\nBibliography\n\n"}
{"id": "1812385", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812385", "title": "Grant Wilson", "text": "Grant Wilson\n\nGrant Steven Wilson (born July 3, 1974) is an Art Director and Developer for Rather Dashing Games (now a division of Kalmbach Publishing), a game company he founded with Michael Richie, and the co-founder of The Atlantic Paranormal Society (TAPS), which is based in Warwick, Rhode Island. He is also the star and co-producer of the cable television reality series, \"Ghost Hunters\". He left the show in 2014 and returned for the 2019 revival.\n\nWilson and his wife Reanna have three sons. After an early career in web design, Wilson became a plumber and worked for Roto-Rooter, a large plumbing service company based in Cincinnati, Ohio. His hobbies include writing and illustrating fantasy and role-playing game characters as well as playing and composing music on various instruments including guitar and piano. He is an avid Star Wars fan.\n\nWilson is a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Wilson served an LDS Mission in Italy.\n\nWilson first met TAPS co-founder, Jason Hawes, after offering to redesign the website of the Rhode Island Paranormal Society (RIPS), a support group Hawes had formed for people who had paranormal experiences. Wilson subsequently admitted that the real reason he wanted to meet Hawes was that he had undergone an intense, recurring paranormal experience beginning at the age of fifteen. Hawes and Wilson went on to found TAPS together. According to his own account, Wilson's recurring experience involved seeing an unidentified entity in the Rhode Island woods on a regular basis.\n\nWilson and Hawes are longtime co-workers as plumbers for Roto-Rooter. It was Hawes who brought Wilson into the plumbing business. The two are former co-owners of the Spalding Inn, based in Whitefield, New Hampshire. Wilson, Hawes, and other members of the paranormal community frequently give lectures at schools and paranormal-related conventions. Wilson is also available for hire for private ghost hunting trips, and along with Hawes has used public ghost hunting events and personal appearances to raise money for various charities such as the Cure Kids Cancer and the masonic-affiliated Shriners Hospitals for Children.\n\nHawes and Wilson also participate in ghost hunting events created specifically for the paying public. More recently TAPS has offered an event solely hosted by the TAPS members. The personal ghost hunting events have gained more and more popularity over the years with television celebrity guests. TAPS co-hosts events locations such as the Stanley Hotel in Colorado, RMS \"Queen Mary\" ocean liner in California, and the Buffalo Central Terminal in Buffalo, New York.\n\nOn the 13th mid-season opener for \"South Park\", Grant and Jason were both parodied and portrayed as easily frightened, going as far as to wet and poop their pants. However, neither the real-life Grant Wilson or Jason Hawes were offended, and Grant made a post on Twitter.\n\nOn the February 15, 2012, edition of \"Ghost Hunters\", Wilson announced that he would be leaving the \"Ghost Hunters\" show for personal reasons, including working on his own projects. The May 16, 2012, episode of \"Ghost Hunters\" was Wilson's last episode. He is now the Vice-President of Rather Dashing Games.\n\nIn the coming attractions for the tenth season of \"Ghost Hunters\", premiering on October 8, 2014, Grant Wilson is seen as returning to the show for the two-hour 200th episode, which was aired on October 22, 2014.\n\nIn a recent interview on British radio, Grant Wilson described some of the scariest cases he had to deal with on \"Ghost Hunters\", including being held by a whole town that practiced Black Magic. He also discussed life after \"Ghost Hunters\", including his band Carpetshark and his forthcoming high-fantasy novels.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1812390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812390", "title": "Jarvis Collegiate Institute", "text": "Jarvis Collegiate Institute\n\nJarvis Collegiate Institute is a high school in Toronto, Ontario, Canada. It is named after Jarvis Street where it is located. It is a part of the Toronto District School Board (TDSB). Prior to 1998, it was within the Toronto Board of Education (TBE).\n\nFounded in 1807, it is the second oldest high school in Ontario after the Kingston Collegiate and Vocational Institute (c. 1792), and the oldest high school in Toronto.\n\nJarvis Collegiate was founded as a private school in 1797. In 1807 the government of Ontario, then known as the British colony of Upper Canada, took over the school and incorporated it in a network of eight new, public grammar schools (secondary schools), one for each of the eight districts of Upper Canada. Of the eight were four key schools:\n\n\nThese were the early days of Toronto, when the first parliament buildings were established and the first church and jail were constructed. In fact, it was only fourteen years earlier that Governor John Grave Simcoe arrived at the location on Lake Ontario, home to Mississauga communities and site of important Indigenous trade routes, to lay out the design of the new town he named York.\n\nAfter the early period 1807-1811, enrollment started at five, rose to twenty, then fell to four - the school gained momentum in 1812 when the redoubtable John Strachan took over as headmaster. In 1839, Strachan became the first Anglican bishop of Toronto, living grandly in a home known as the \"Palace\" and signing his name (following the \"first name / diocese\" format customary for Anglican bishops) \"John Toronto\". He also founded Trinity College.\n\nThe original 1807 school building was a shed attached to the headmaster's house. Strachan raised funds for a new two-storey building, completed in 1816 on College Square, a lot north of St. James' Cathedral, bounded by Richmond, Adelaide, Church and Jarvis Streets. In 1825 the school was renamed the Royal Grammar School. Later the name was changed to Toronto High School. In 1829 it moved to the corner of Jarvis and Lombard Streets. When Upper Canada College was founded in 1829 it shared a building with the Grammar School and for several years the two organizations were essentially unified. UCC eventually moved to its own facilities.By 1864 the three rooms of the schoolhouse were inadequate for the 150 students, so a new building was constructed on Dalhousie Street, just north of Gould Street, near present-day Ryerson University. This was also the year of the founding of the Toronto Grammar School Mental Improvement Society, the predecessor to all school clubs. Later known in schools as \"the Lit,\" the club was a literary and debating society. Originally exclusively for boys, the club began admitting girls in 1893. It was also around this time that the first debates between schools were held in Toronto, the competing schools being Parkdale Collegiate Institute and Harbord Collegiate Institute. In the following decade, once again growing enrollment necessitated a new building. As the school underwent construction between 1870 and 1871, classes were held in a vacant insane asylum at Queen's Park, where the east wing of the legislative buildings are located today.\n\nIn 1871 the new building opened at 361 Jarvis Street, just south of College Street, directly in front of Allan Gardens. In 1889, the annexation of Parkdale brought a second high school (Parkdale Collegiate Institute) to the board, precipitating yet another name change from Toronto High School to Jarvis Street High School. The school was given its current name, Jarvis Collegiate Institute, in 1890. In 1924 it moved to its current Collegiate Gothic building designed by architect Charles Edmund Cyril Dyson.\n\nJarvis Collegiate celebrated its 200th anniversary in 2007.\n\nThe 2013 remake of Stephen King's novel, \"Carrie\", was filmed at Jarvis Collegiate Institute as well as Northern Secondary School.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1812404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812404", "title": "Jason Hawes", "text": "Jason Hawes\n\nJason Conrad Hawes (born December 27, 1971) is an American plumber and the co-founder of The Atlantic Paranormal Society (TAPS), which is based in Warwick, Rhode Island. He is also one of the stars and co-producers of Syfy's \"Ghost Hunters\", which ended after its eleventh season on October 26, 2016, but was later renewed for a 12th season by A&E with new episodes premiering in August 2019. TAPS co-founder and former lead investigator Grant Wilson leads a new team. Hawes, though absent from the revival of \"Ghost Hunters\", leads his own show with \"Ghost Hunters\" alumni Dave Tango and Steve Gonsalves in \"Ghost Nation\", which has been airing on the Travel Channel since October 2019.\n\nHawes was born in Canandaigua, New York and moved to Warwick, Rhode Island in 1971. According to his own account, Hawes began to see apparitions at the age of twenty after a girlfriend who practiced Reiki manipulated his life force energy. Paranormal researcher John Zaffis told Hawes that he was becoming sensitive to paranormal phenomena. Hawes founded the Rhode Island Paranormal Society (RIPS) in 1990 as a support group for people who had paranormal experiences. When Hawes was twenty-two, Hawes went on to found TAPS/The Atlantic Paranormal Society and co-create the major hit \"Ghost Hunters\". \"Ghost Hunters\" became the flagship show of the Syfy Channel and made it one of the top watched channels on cable.\n\nHawes has written two books on the paranormal and four sci-fi/thriller screenplays. He and fellow TAPS founder Grant Wilson are longtime co-workers at their day job as plumbers for Roto-Rooter. It was Hawes who brought Wilson into the plumbing business. The two are former co-owners of the Spalding Inn, based in Whitefield, New Hampshire.They finally sold the Inn in the summer of 2014.\n\nHawes has used public ghost hunting events and personal appearances to raise money for various charities, such as the Shriners Hospitals for Children and Cure Kids Cancer.\n\nIn March 2005, Barry Clinton Eckstrom, 51, of Upper St. Clair, Pennsylvania, began to send threatening e-mails to Jason Hawes, founder of TAPS. Hawes alerted the FBI in Providence. When the e-mails began to include threats against then President George W. Bush, the Secret Service became involved. Eckstrom also used Hawes's name to send e-mails to some female members of TAPS, in which he threatened to rape and murder them. While under surveillance by federal agents, Eckstrom used a Bethel Park, Pennsylvania library computer to send an e-mail in Hawes' name to Roto Rooter's Cincinnati headquarters, threatening to shoot employees there. Next, Eckstrom typed a message threatening to kill President Bush, again in Hawes' name, using the Department of Homeland Security's website. Before he could send the message, he was arrested. Because of these activities, Eckstrom was sentenced to two years in federal prison in January 2006.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1812409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812409", "title": "Maria Louisa", "text": "Maria Louisa\n\nMaria Louisa may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1812422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812422", "title": "St. Lazare, Manitoba", "text": "St. Lazare, Manitoba\n\nSt. Lazare is an unincorporated community recognized as a local urban district in the Rural Municipality of Ellice – Archie within the Canadian province of Manitoba that held village status prior to January 1, 2015. The community has a population of 257 inhabitants in the 2016 census.\n\nCKSB-2 860 AM first went on the air as a rebroadcast transmitter on March 12, 1969.\n\n"}
{"id": "1812425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812425", "title": "Arkivoc", "text": "Arkivoc\n\nArkivoc (\"Archive for Organic Chemistry\") is a peer-reviewed open access scientific journal covering all aspects of organic chemistry. It is published by the non-profit organization Arkat USA, which was established in 2000 through a personal donation from Alan R. Katritzky and Linde Katritzky. \"Arkivoc\" is the primary publication of Arkat USA. According to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", the journal has a 2014 impact factor of 1.165, ranking it 37th out of 57 journals in the category \"Chemistry, Organic\".\n\nAccording to the Journal Citation Reports, the journal has a 2018 impact factor of 1.253. The journal is indexed in Web of Science: Science Citation Index Expanded.\n"}
{"id": "1812426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812426", "title": "Gires–Tournois etalon", "text": "Gires–Tournois etalon\n\nIn optics, a Gires–Tournois etalon is a transparent plate with two reflecting surfaces, one of which has very high reflectivity, ideally unity. Due to multiple-beam interference, light incident on a Gires–Tournois etalon is (almost) completely reflected, but has an effective phase shift that depends strongly on the wavelength of the light.\n\nThe complex amplitude reflectivity of a Gires–Tournois etalon is given by\n\nwhere \"r\" is the complex amplitude reflectivity of the first surface,<br>\n\nSuppose that formula_3 is real. Then formula_4, independent of formula_5. This indicates that all the incident energy is reflected and intensity is uniform. However, the multiple reflection causes a nonlinear phase shift formula_6. \n\nTo show this effect, we assume formula_3 is real and formula_8, where formula_9 is the intensity reflectivity of the first surface. Define the effective phase shift formula_6 through\n\nOne obtains\n\nFor \"R\" = 0, no reflection from the first surface and the resultant nonlinear phase shift is equal to the round-trip phase change (formula_13) – linear response. However, as can be seen, when \"R\" is increased, the nonlinear phase shift formula_6 gives the nonlinear response to formula_5 and shows step-like behavior. Gires–Tournois etalon has applications for laser pulse compression and nonlinear Michelson interferometer.\n\nGires–Tournois etalons are closely related to Fabry–Pérot etalons. This can be seen by examining the total reflectivity of a Gires-Tournois etalon when the reflectivity of its second surface becomes smaller than 1. In these conditions the property formula_4is not observed anymore: the reflectivity starts exhibiting a resonant behavior which is characteristic of Fabry-Pérot etalons.\n\n"}
{"id": "1812431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812431", "title": "Wing Scout", "text": "Wing Scout\n\nThe Wing Scout Program was a popular older girl Girl Scout program begun in 1941 for girls \"interested in flying and wanting to learn enough about aviation to serve their country.\"\n\nLike the Mariner Scout program, the Wing Scout program began as a \"Senior Girl Scout Mobilist Project\" with limited expectations, but by July 1942 twenty-nine troop leaders from fifteen states met in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, to take Wing Scout leadership training. These leaders returned to their councils and began setting up Wing Scout troops.\n\nOnce the United States entered into World War II, the Wing Scout program took on a new importance.\n\nThe first formal printed information on the Wing Scout program was a packet described in the publication Senior Girl Scouting in War Time. A 4-page pamphlet was produced in 1944, and a 16-page booklet was issued in 1945. A 20-page \"Wing Scout Manual\" was published in 1945. That same year the first of three Piper Cub training planes were presented to Girl Scouts by William T. Piper, President of Piper Aircraft (August 17, 1945).\n\nGirl Scouting was already offering an Aviation badge in 1916, but it is unknown as to whether any Girl Scouts earned the badge during the time it was offered between 1916 and 1920. It was reintroduced in 1947 for both the Intermediate Girl Scout and Cadette Girl Scout program.\n\nIn the beginning, there was no official insignia for Wing Scouts. In 1955 that changed and a Girl Scout could be designated Wing Scout Analyst and earn her silver wings. Chevrons in the form of gold stitching on dark green felt, were earned at each level: Wing Scout Traveler, one chevron; Wing Scout Navigator, two chevron; Wing Scout Technician, three chevrons; and Wing Scout Pilot, a propeller above the chevrons. A Wing Scout Pilot had to earn her pilot's certification and/or serve as an Assistant Leader in a Wing Scout Troop.\n\nIn 1959, Girl Scout Council in North San Mateo County was presented with an offer from United Airlines San Francisco Management Club President J. L. Burnside to start an aviation program for Senior Girl Scouts.\n\nAt that time, the council had been in search of a program that would challenge the interest of Senior Girl Scouts.\n\nWe felt this high caliber type program assistance merited more than our own local girls, so we invited girls from surrounding councils to join us. This afforded us the opportunity of working not only with the Central San Mateo County Council with whom were about to merge; but also San Carlos, Redwood City, San Francisco, and Alameda. ... When girls from Fremont, Livermore, Walnut Creek, Pinole, and Sacramento came -- we felt very rewarded; and that our far reaching goals were justified and had been reached. The program received recognition Nationally, in the Leader Magazine. As a result, we received inquiries from many Councils, including one from a Council just outside of Washington D.C., concerning our procedure plans. — \nOne of the highlights of the Wing Scout program was the courtesy flight provide to Senior Girl Scouts using United Airlines' jets. For many of the girls, this was the first time they had flown in a plane.\n\nThe Wing Scout program was not for show, participating girls took it very seriously. As a result of their proficient training and ability, Senior Girl Scouts who had been in the program for three years were given the opportunity to take over the controls during flight in a small aircraft. The program in the Bay Area continued into the 1980s when it was discontinued after United Airlines experienced financial setbacks.\n\nThe San Diego area was also home to Wing Scout Troop #489, sponsored by The San Diego Chapter of the Ninety-Nines, Inc, International Organization of Women Pilots. Members of the San Diego 99s mentored the Scouts. A few were also flight instructors who would provide the scouts flight instruction.\n"}
{"id": "1812440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812440", "title": "Fingers Inc.", "text": "Fingers Inc.\n\nFingers, Inc. was a Chicago house music group consisting of producer and arranger Larry Heard (\"Mr. Fingers\"), and vocalists Robert Owens and Ron Wilson. \n\nThe group is best known for their pioneering deep house records released in the mid-1980s, including the 1988 album \"Another Side\" (1988) and the singles \"A Path\", \" It's Over\", \"Mystery Of Love\", \"Can You Feel It?\" and \"Bring Down The Walls\", all of which have appeared on numerous house music compilation albums. Some Fingers Inc. tracks appear on albums credited to Larry Heard or Mr. Fingers. Ron Wilson is also known for his work with the Chicago house group in the mid-1980s, and popular solo tracks produced by Larry Heard such as \"Prove It To Me\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1812443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812443", "title": "Brighton Kemptown (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Brighton Kemptown (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nBrighton Kemptown, informally known usually as Brighton Kemptown and Peacehaven, is a constituency represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament since 2017 by Lloyd Russell-Moyle, a Labour and Co-operative MP.\n\nThe constituency covers the eastern portion of the city of Brighton and Hove including Kemptown and part of the Lewes District.\n\n1950–1983: The County Borough of Brighton wards of Elm Grove, Hanover, King's Cliff, Lewes Road, Moulsecoomb, Pier, Queen's Park, Rottingdean, and St John's.\n\n1983–1997: The Borough of Brighton wards of Hanover, King's Cliff, Marine, Moulsecoomb, Queen's Park, Rottingdean, Tenantry, and Woodingdean.\n\n1997–2010: The Borough of Brighton wards of King's Cliff, Marine, Moulsecoomb, Queen's Park, Rottingdean, Tenantry, and Woodingdean, and the District of Lewes wards of East Saltdean, Peacehaven East, Peacehaven North, Peacehaven West, and Telscombe Cliffs.\n\n2010–present: The City of Brighton and Hove wards of East Brighton, Moulsecoomb and Bevendean, Queen's Park, Rottingdean Coastal, and Woodingdean, and the District of Lewes wards of East Saltdean and Telscombe Cliffs, Peacehaven East, Peacehaven North, and Peacehaven West.\n\nThe constituency takes in the eastern part of Brighton and semi-rural suburbs and villages stretching out to the east. From west to east it includes Queen's Park; Kemptown, the centre of Brighton's vibrant gay community; the council estates of Whitehawk and Moulsecoomb; and beyond the racecourse affluent and genteel coastal villages like Rottingdean, Woodingdean, Saltdean and the town of Peacehaven.\n\nThis constituency was created in 1950 when the two-member constituency of Brighton was split into three single-member seats.\n\nBoundary changes for the 1997 general election moved Peacehaven, a semi-rural area, into the constituency. This added a ward where the Conservatives had been favoured, but Labour gained the seat at its landslide victory. Des Turner held it until 2010, when Simon Kirby of the Conservative Party won it.\n\nFor a total of 48 years since the seat's creation, it has been Conservative-controlled (1950–1964; 1970–1997; 2010–2017). The only other party to hold the seat since its creation has been the Labour Party.\n\nLabour first won Kemptown in 1964, with a narrow majority of just seven votes. Dennis Hobden, the first Labour MP to ever be elected in Sussex, increased his majority in 1966, but lost the seat in 1970, and another Labour MP was not returned until 1997. The seat was a national bellwether constituency from 1979-2015, but in 2017 elected a Labour MP when the country as a whole returned a hung parliament with the Conservatives being the largest party by a margin of 56 MPs.\n\nLiberal Democrats and their two predecessor parties following national trends formed the third-largest party in the constituency, 1950–2010 inclusive. The 2010 general election result for the party can be seen as 0.6% behind \"its\" highest, at 18.6%, if including its SDP forerunner. The Liberal Democrat vote share collapsed to 3% in 2015 (behind UKIP and Green Party candidates) and remained at the 3% level in 2017 despite the absence of UKIP and Green candidates for the seat at that election.\n\nThe Green Party candidate finished in fourth place at the 2005, 2010 and 2015 elections, retaining their deposit each time, with vote shares ranging from 5.5% to 7.0%. The Greens did not field a candidate in 2017 in a tactical effort to assist the Labour Party unseat the sitting Conservative MP, Simon Kirby, who had held the seat for Conservatives in 2015 on a reduced majority. This worked, as Labour's Lloyd Russell-Moyle won the seat with a majority of 9,868 votes or 20.0% (the largest Labour has ever held in Brighton Kemptown), while achieving a 19.2% increase in Labour's vote share.\n\nThe 2015 general election result had made the seat the tenth-most marginal majority of the Conservative Party's 331 seats by percentage of majority.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1812455", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812455", "title": "Volta Redonda FC", "text": "Volta Redonda FC\n\nVolta Redonda Futebol Clube, Volta Redonda or simply by its nickname Voltaço, as they are usually called, is a Brazilian football team from Volta Redonda in Rio de Janeiro, founded on February 9, 1976.\n\nHome stadium is the General Sílvio Raulino de Oliveira stadium, capacity 21,000.\n\nIn 1975, the only professional team of the city of Volta Redonda was Clube de Regatas do Flamengo of Volta Redonda (not be confused with Clube de Regatas do Flamengo of Rio de Janeiro city), commonly known as Flamenguinho. In the same year, the states of Rio de Janeiro and Guanabara fused. Because of the fusion of the two states, the Federação Carioca de Futebol (\"Carioca Football Federation\", Rio de Janeiro city football federation) and Federação Fluminense de Desportos (\"Fluminense Sporting Federation\", federation of the interior cities of today's Rio de Janeiro state) also fused.\n\nAt a meeting between the president of Companhia Siderúrgica Nacional (CSN), Volta Redonda city mayor Nelson Gonçalves, Doctor Guanayr and Admiral Heleno Nunes (president of CBD, Confederação Brasileira de Desportos, \"Brazilian Sporting Confederation\"), Doctor Guanayr defended the idea that Flamenguinho should represent the city in Campeonato Carioca, but Admiral Heleno Nunes decided that the new team should be named Volta Redonda Futebol Clube and the team colors should be the same colors of Volta Redonda Municipality: black, yellow and white.\n\nOn February 9, 1976, Volta Redonda Futebol Clube was founded at the meeting room of the Federação Carioca de Futebol, with the presence of the board of directors of Clube de Regatas Flamengo of Volta Redonda, of Associação Atlética Comercial and representatives of the City Hall of the city of Volta Redonda.\n\nVolta Redonda, newly promoted to the first division of Campeonato Carioca surprised the football fans and the press, and won the traditional and prestigious Taça Guanabara (the first turn of Campeonato Carioca), after defeating strong teams such as Vasco da Gama. This title qualified the team to play in the finals of Campeonato Carioca. Fluminense won Taça Rio (the second turn of Campeonato Carioca). The Campeonato Carioca final between Volta Redonda and Fluminense was played in two matches, both at Maracanã stadium. In the first match, Volta Redonda beat Fluminense by 4–3, needing only a draw in the second match to win the competition. However, the second match ended 3–1 to Fluminense. Volta Redonda finished the competition as runner-up of Campeonato Carioca.\n\nIn 2006, Volta Redonda reached the quarterfinals of Copa do Brasil. In the first stage, the club beat América Mineiro. In the second stage, Volta Redonda defeated first division club Atlético Paranaense. In the third stage, 15 de Novembro of Campo Bom was beaten by Volta Redonda. On May 4, at Estádio São Januário, Volta Redonda was defeated by Vasco da Gama 2–1 and eliminated of the competition. In the first leg, played on April 27, Volta Redonda and Vasco drew 0–0.\n\nIn 2016, Volta Redonda rose with one of the most impressive campaigns in the Série D, beating Fluminense de Feira twice, thus gaining access to the 2017 Série C. In the finals, they beat CSA 4-0.\n\nVolta Redonda's stadium is Estádio Raulino de Oliveira, built in 1976, with a maximum capacity of 21,000 people.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1812460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812460", "title": "Écoles Sans Frontières", "text": "Écoles Sans Frontières\n\nÉcoles Sans Frontières (\"Schools Without Borders\") is a French non-governmental organisation (NGO) with volunteers and offices throughout the world who endeavour to:\n\nThe motto of the organisation is \"L'instruction, c'est l'espoir\" (\"Education is hope\").\nESF volunteers work to help underprivileged in refugee camps throughout South East Asia, Haiti and Guatemala.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1812463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812463", "title": "Portsmouth South (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Portsmouth South (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nPortsmouth South is a constituency represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament since 2017 by Stephen Morgan of the Labour Party. Morgan is the first Labour MP to represent the seat.\n\n1918–1950: The County Borough of Portsmouth wards of Havelock, Highland, St Paul, St Simon, and St Thomas.\n\n1950–1955: The County Borough of Portsmouth wards of Havelock, Highland, Kingston, St Paul, St Simon, and St Thomas.\n\n1955–1974: The County Borough of Portsmouth wards of Havelock, Highland, Kingston, St Jude, St Simon, and St Thomas.\n\n1974–1983: The County Borough of Portsmouth wards of Buckland, Fratton, Havelock, Highland, Kingston, St Jude, St Simon, and St Thomas.\n\n1983–2010: The City of Portsmouth wards of Charles Dickens, Fratton, Havelock, Highland, Milton, St Jude, and St Thomas.\n\n2010–present: The City of Portsmouth wards of Central Southsea, Charles Dickens, Eastney and Craneswater, Fratton, Milton, St Jude, and St Thomas.\n\nThe constituency covers the southern part of the city of Portsmouth in Hampshire, including Fratton, the seaside resort of Southsea and HMNB Portsmouth (Portsmouth Naval Dockyard) within the city bounds. The northern part is represented by Portsmouth North.\n\nThis constituency is marginally less affluent than its neighbour, with in December 2012 slightly higher unemployment, but considerably below the national average of all constituencies in terms of the claimant count. Notwithstanding this, following the Second World War the city has a large proportion of flats, increasingly in a more aesthetic apartment style, some being affordable social housing and brutalist tower blocks; however, the majority of the city is of semi-detached and terraced nature with a mixture of incomes centred around the national average and excellent amenities.\n\nThe constituency was created in 1918 when the larger Portsmouth constituency was split into three divisions: Central, North and South. The Portsmouth Central constituency was abolished in 1950.\n\nDuring the 2010 general election campaign, independent candidate Les Cummings distributed a leaflet claiming that sitting MP Mike Hancock was a paedophile, which was later proven in court to be false. Cummings was subsequently convicted under the Representation of the People Act 1983 for distributing material which was known to be false with the intention of smearing or defaming to affect the return of a Member of Parliament, and was fined £500 as a result.\n\nStephen Morgan won the seat at the 2017 general election, the first time ever that the Labour Party have held the seat. Morgan's win was one of 30 net gains made by Labour at that election.\n\n\nNotes\n\nReferences\n"}
{"id": "1812466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812466", "title": "Šid", "text": "Šid\n\nŠid (, ) is a town and municipality located in the Srem District of the autonomous province of Vojvodina, Serbia. It has a population of 14,893, while the municipality has 34,188 inhabitants.\n\nIn Serbian, the town is known as \"Šid\" (Шид), in Hungarian as \"Sid\", in German as \"Schid\", in Slovak as \"Šíd\", and in Rusyn as Шид.\n\nŠid was firstly mentioned in 1702. At first, settlement was part of Danubian Military Frontier, but since the middle of the 18th century, it was part of the Syrmia County of the Habsburg Kingdom of Slavonia. In 1848-1849, Šid was part of Serbian Vojvodina, and in 1849-1860 part of Voivodeship of Serbia and Banat of Temeschwar. After the abolishment of the voivodeship in 1860, Šid was again incorporated into Syrmia County of the Kingdom of Slavonia. In 1868, Kingdom of Slavonia was joined with the Kingdom of Croatia into the Kingdom of Croatia-Slavonia, which was part of the Kingdom of Hungary and Austria-Hungary. Šid was a district center within Syrmia County. In 1910, ethnic Serbs were in absolute majority in the town, while other sizable ethnic groups included Rusyns, Slovaks and Croats.\n\nIn 1918, the town first became part of the State of Slovenes, Croats and Serbs, then part of the Kingdom of Serbia and finally part of the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes. From 1918 to 1922, Šid was part of the Syrmia county, from 1922 to 1929 part of the Syrmia oblast, from 1929 to 1931 part of the Drina Banovina, from 1931 to 1939 part of the Danube Banovina, and from 1939 to 1941 part of the Banovina of Croatia. During World War II, from 1941 to 1944, the town was occupied by Axis troops and was included into the Pavelić's Independent State of Croatia. The fascist Ustashe regime systematically murdered Serbs (as part of the Genocide of the Serbs), Jews (The Holocaust), Roma (The Porajmos), and some political dissidents. On August 1942, following the joint military anti-partisan operation in the Syrmia by the Ustashe and German Wehrmacht, it turned into a massacre by the Ustasha militia that left up to 7,000 Serbs dead. Among those killed was the prominent painter Sava Šumanović, who was arrested along with 150 residents of Šid. In 1944, Šid was liberated by Yugoslav Partisans and until April 1945, a number of battles of the Syrmian Front campaign were fought near the town. The Yugoslav Partisans mined the local Catholic church during the offensive in late 1944. Since 1944, the town is part of Vojvodina, which (from 1945) was an autonomous province of Serbia and Yugoslavia.\n\nOn 5 November 1991, the Serbian government accused Croatian forces of firing 15 artillery rockets into the city, killing four people and wounding 12 in what became the first attack on Serbian soil during the Yugoslav Wars. In 2009, Šid was declared mine-free after demining actions to remove explosives dating from the conflict.\n\nThe municipality of Šid encompasses of town of Šid, and the following villages:\n\n\n\nAccording to the 2011 census results, the municipality of Šid has 34,188 inhabitants.\n\nMost of the settlements in the municipality have an ethnic Serb majority. The settlement with Slovak ethnic majority is Ljuba. Ethnically mixed settlements are Bikić Do (with relative Rusyn majority) and Sot (with relative Serb majority).\n\nThe ethnic composition of the municipality:\nNear the Privina Glava village is Privina Glava Monastery. According to the legend, the monastery was founded by the squire Priva in the 12th century.\n\nIn Šid, there is a museum dedicated to an important Serbian artist Sava Šumanović, and a museum of naïve art \"Ilijanum\" consisting of more than 300 works of fine art, mainly paintings.\n\nThe following table gives a preview of total number of registered people employed in legal entities per their core activity (as of 2018):\nThere are three official sister cities of Šid:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1812468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812468", "title": "Kula, Serbia", "text": "Kula, Serbia\n\nKula () is a town and municipality located in the West Bačka District of the autonomous province of Vojvodina, Serbia. The town has a population of 17,866, while the municipality has a population of 43,101.\n\nIn Serbian, the town is known as \"Kula\" (Кула); in Rusyn as Кула, in Hungarian as \"Kúla\", in Croatian as \"Kula\", in German as \"Kula\" or \"Wolfsburg\", and in Turkish as \"Kula\".\n\nThe name \"Kule\" means \"tower\" in Turkish and Serbian. In the 16th-17th century, a tower with Ottoman military garrison existed at this location, hence the name of the town. However it cannot be said for sure whether Ottoman Turks or local Serbs gave this name to the town.\n\nIn the middle of the 17th century, during Ottoman administration, two settlements with this name were mentioned - \"Gornja Kula\" and \"Donja Kula\". These settlements were part of the Ottoman Sanjak of Segedin and were populated by ethnic Serbs. From the end of the 17th century, the region was under administration of the Habsburg Monarchy and two settlements were mentioned as \"Mala Kula\" and \"Velika Kula\" and were unpopulated. In 1714, there was a record about single settlement named Kula that had 14 houses. In 1733, the population of the settlement numbered 251 houses and its inhabitants were Serbs. Hungarians started to settle there in 1740 and Germans in 1780-85.\n\nUntil the middle of the 19th century, the settlement was part of the Batsch-Bodrog County within the Habsburg Kingdom of Hungary. In 1848-49 it was part of the autonomous Serbian Vojvodina and from 1849-60 it was part of the Voivodeship of Serbia and Banat of Temeschwar, a separate Habsburg crownland. After abolishment of the voivodeship in 1860, the settlement was again included into Batsch-Bodrog County. In the second half of the 19th century some Rusyns were settled here as well. \n\nAfter 1867, colonization of Hungarians was intensified, and until the beginning of the 20th century they replaced Serbs as largest ethnic group in Kula. According to the 1910 census the population of Kula was ethnically mixed: from the total population of 9,119 there was 3,679 speakers of Hungarian, 2,510 speakers of Serbian, 2,425 speakers of German, and 456 speakers of Rusyn.\n\nAfter 1918, the settlement was part of the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes (later renamed to Kingdom of Yugoslavia). In 1918-19, it was part of the Banat, Bačka and Baranja region, and also (from 1918-22) part of the Novi Sad County. From 1922-29, it was part of the Bačka Oblast, and from 1929-41 part of the Danube Banovina. During World War II, From 1941-44, Kula was under Axis occupation and was attached to the Horthy's Hungary. \n\nIn 1944, the Soviet Red Army and Yugoslav partisans expelled Axis troops from the region and Kula was included into autonomous province of Vojvodina within new socialist Yugoslavia. Since 1945, Vojvodina is part of the People's Republic of Serbia within Yugoslavia. \n\nAccording to 1953 census, Hungarians were the largest ethnic group in the town, while subsequent censuses recorded Serb ethnic plurality. The German community left Kula at the end of World War II, while a sizable number of Serb Montenegrins from Montenegro settled there instead of Germans. After the breakup of Yugoslavia (1991-1992) and Serbia and Montenegro (2006), the town became part of an independent Republic of Serbia. Today the Serbs are the largest ethnic group in the town.\n\nThe Kula municipality includes the towns of Kula and Crvenka, and also the following villages:\n\nAccording to the last official census done in 2011, the municipality of Kula has 43,101 inhabitants.\n\n\nSettlements with a Serb ethnic majority are: Lipar, Nova Crvenka, Sivac, and Crvenka. The settlement with a Rusyn ethnic majority is Ruski Krstur. Ethnically mixed settlements are: Kula (with a relative Serb majority) and Kruščić (with a relative Montenegrin majority).\n\nThe town of Kula has a total of 26,867 inhabitants, including:\n\n\n77% of the inhabitants of the Kula municipality declared Serbian as their mother language in a 2002 census.\n\nKula is a home to prominent Serbian confectionary products manufacturer Jaffa Crvenka.\n\nThe following table gives a preview of total number of registered people employed in legal entities per their core activity (as of 2018):\nThere is an initiative among the inhabitants of Crvenka and Ruski Krstur that these two settlements become their own municipalities, completely separate from Kula.\n\nThere is a football club named Hajduk Kula in the town. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1812471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812471", "title": "Obstetrical bleeding", "text": "Obstetrical bleeding\n\nObstetrical bleeding is bleeding in pregnancy that occurs before, during, or after childbirth. Bleeding before childbirth is that which occurs after 24 weeks of pregnancy. Bleeding may be vaginal or less commonly into the abdominal cavity. Bleeding which occurs before 24 weeks is known as early pregnancy bleeding.\nCauses of bleeding before and during childbirth include cervicitis, placenta previa, placental abruption and uterine rupture. Causes of bleeding after childbirth include poor contraction of the uterus, retained products of conception, and bleeding disorders.\nAbout 8.7 million cases of severe maternal bleeding occurred in 2015 resulting in 83,000 death. Between 2003 and 2009, bleeding accounted for 27% of maternal deaths globally.\n\nAntepartum bleeding (APH), also prepartum hemorrhage, is bleeding during pregnancy from the 24th week (sometimes defined as from the 20th week) gestational age up to the birth of the baby. The primary consideration is the presence of a placenta previa which is a low lying placenta at or very near to the internal cervical os. This condition occurs in roughly 4 out of 1000 pregnancies and usually needs to be resolved by delivering the baby via cesarean section. Also a placental abruption (in which there is premature separation of the placenta) can lead to obstetrical hemorrhage, sometimes concealed. This pathology is of important consideration after maternal trauma such as a motor vehicle accident or fall.\n\nOther considerations to include when assessing antepartum bleeding are: sterile vaginal exams that are performed in order to assess dilation of the patient when the 40th week is approaching. As well as cervical insufficiency defined as a midtrimester (14th-26th week) dilation of the cervix which may need medical intervention to assist in keeping the pregnancy sustainable.\n\nBesides placenta previa and placental abruption, uterine rupture can occur, which is a very serious condition leading to internal or external bleeding. Bleeding from the fetus is rare, but may occur with two conditions called vasa previa and velamentous umbilical cord insertion where the fetal blood vessels lie near the placental insertion site unprotected by Wharton's jelly of the cord. Occasionally this condition can be diagnosed by ultrasound. There are also tests to differentiate maternal blood from fetal blood which can help in determining the source of the bleed.\n\nAbnormal bleeding after delivery, or postpartum hemorrhage, is the loss of greater than 500 ml of blood following vaginal delivery, or 1000 ml of blood following cesarean section. Other definitions of excessive postpartum bleeding are hemodynamic instability, drop of hemoglobin of more than 10%, or requiring blood transfusion. In the literature, primary postpartum hemorrhage is defined as uncontrolled bleeding that occurs in the first 24 hours after delivery while secondary hemorrhage occurs between 24 hours and six weeks.\n\nIn rare cases, inherited bleeding disorders, like hemophilia, von Willebrand disease (vWD), or factor IX or XI deficiency, may cause severe postpartum hemorrhage, with an increased risk of death particularly in the postpartum period. The risk of postpartum hemorrhage in patients with vWD and carriers of hemophilia has been found to be 18.5% and 22% respectively. This pathology occurs due to the normal physiological drop in maternal clotting factors after delivery which greatly increases the risk of secondary postpartum hemorrhage.\nAnother bleeding risk factor is thrombocytopenia, or decreased platelet levels, which is the most common hematological change associated with pregnancy induced hypertension. If platelet counts drop less than 100,000 per microliter the patient will be at a severe risk for inability to clot during and after delivery.\n\nIf a small amount of bleeding is seen in early pregnancy a physician may request:\nFor bleeding seen in later pregnancy tests may include:\n\nPregnant patients may have bleeding from the reproductive tract due to trauma, including sexual trauma, neoplasm, most commonly cervical cancer, and hematologic disorders. Molar pregnancy (also called hydatiform mole) is a type of pregnancy where the sperm and the egg have joined within the uterus, but the result is a cyst resembling a grape-like cluster rather than an embryo. Bleeding can be an early sign of this tumor developing.\n\n"}
{"id": "1812481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812481", "title": "Arthur Fields", "text": "Arthur Fields\n\nArthur Fields (August 6, 1884 – March 29, 1953) was an American singer (baritone) and songwriter.\n\nHe was born Abraham Finkelstein in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, but grew up mainly in Utica, New York. He became a professional singer as a youngster. \n\nAround 1908, he toured with Guy Brother's Minstrel Show, and helped form a vaudeville act \"Weston, Fields and Carroll\".\n\nHis first hit as a songwriter was \"On the Mississippi\" (1912), which he wrote the music for with Harry Carroll and Ballard MacDonald supplied the lyrics. In 1914 he wrote the lyrics to \"Aba Daba Honeymoon\", which was revived for the 1950 M.G.M. film \"Two Weeks With Love\" and thus got a renewed popularity which brought Fields large royalty incomes during his last two years.\n\nFrom 1914 onward, he recorded with many bands and for many labels and had a varied career in the recording industry. In 1918, he was popular for his performance of his \"Hunting the Hun\" war song. His 1919 recordings with bandleader Ford Dabney may be the very first recordings of a white singer backed by a black band. For a period Fields also formed a vocal trio with brothers Jack and Irving Kaufman, billing themselves as \"The Three Kaufields\". Fields also often appeared on records under pseudonyms, for example as \"Mr X.\" on Grey Gull Records and related labels. In 1926 he recorded with Oreste Migliaccio & His Queensland Orchestra. His last records were made in the early 1940s.\n\nAmong Field's most prolific partnerships was the one with band leader and pianist Fred Hall, with whom Fields made plenty of records and co-wrote several songs, often with comic titles like \"The Shoes We Have Left Are All Right\", \"You're My Little Rhapsody in Blue\", and \"I Can't Sleep in the Movies Anymore\". Hall and Fields also broadcast together as Rex Cole's Mountaineers.\n\nRetiring to Florida in 1946 he also worked in radio on WKAT Miami. \n\nHe suffered a stroke early in 1953 and was killed in a fire at Littlefield Nursing Home in Largo, Florida a little later the same year.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1812482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812482", "title": "Jesuit High School (Tampa)", "text": "Jesuit High School (Tampa)\n\nJesuit High School is a private, Catholic, all-male high school located in Tampa, Florida. Established in 1899, it operates independently of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Saint Petersburg. The school teaches a college preparatory curriculum and has been named a Blue Ribbon School of Excellence.\n\nThe Jesuit motto is \"Ad Majoram Dei Gloriam\" which means \"For the Greater Glory of God.\" The school encourages its students to be \"Men For Others,\" which is a student model derived from a famous 1973 speech given by Jesuit Father General Pedro Arrupe. Fr. Arrupe led the Jesuits in the transitional years after Vatican II, from 1965 to 1983, when the Jesuit order incorporated that Council's vision into its institutions.\n\nJesuit High School was founded in 1899 as \"Sacred Heart College\" and affiliated with Sacred Heart Parish, then a Jesuit-run parish. This was in downtown Tampa at the corner of Florida Avenue and Madison Street.\n\nBy the mid-1950s enrollment had exceeded the capacity of the original facility. Father Michael Kennelly, S.J., who served as the school's president and rector from 1953 until 1959, spearheaded a $600,000 capital campaign and the purchase of 80 acres of rural grazing land on Himes Avenue in West Tampa, where the school moved in 1956. Kennelly had obtained the necessary permits and designed the new campus, which he centered around St. Anthony's Chapel.\n\nJesuit High School had an enrollment of 245 students at the time of its relocation in 1956, and as of August 2015 had approximately 775 students. Jesuit has been rated first among all-boys schools in Florida and second among Catholic schools.\nJesuit's curriculum includes studies in mathematics, sciences, fine arts, language arts, foreign language, social studies, physical education, and, for all students, four years of theology. Of the more than 75 members of the faculty, five are Jesuit priests. The Jesuits serve in administration, teaching, and campus ministry. Daily Masses are in the Jesuit chapel at 7:30 AM and 5:00 PM and a monthly all-school Mass in the newly-built Chapel of the Holy Cross. School years begin with the traditional Mass of the Holy Spirit. Those who are not Catholic or not Christian are welcome among the student body.\n\nThe school won the FHSAA Boys' Athletic Program of the Year award in 1997–1998, and had the most state championships and places at state events in 1998–1999, 2000–2001, and 2005–2006. The school won the \"Tampa Tribune\" Athletic Program of the Year award in 2003–2004, and the \"St. Petersburg Times\" Athletic Program of the Year award in 2004–2005. Over the years the baseball, basketball, cross-country, football, soccer, and track teams have combined for a total of 19 state championships, with all but four of these titles occurring since the mid-1990s.\n\nJesuit also has a history of fielding strong wrestling and swimming teams, with numerous individual state champions in both sports, and most recently back-to-back, team state championships in swimming in 2017 and 2018. The school also won the \"Tampa Bay Times\" and the FHSAA Class 5A All-Sports Award for 2013–2014.\nThe Jesuit Tigers have also won two High School National Championships; baseball in 1997 and soccer in 2001. The baseball team has won five state championships and the basketball team three.\n\nJesuit has a tradition of talented coaches who have led their teams to post-season play and championships. These victorious coaches include \"Wild\" Bill Minahan, Dominick Ciao, Paul Straub, John Crumbley, Mike Boza, \"Big\" John Szponar, Bob Bauman, Neal Goldman, and Eric Sims. \n\nJesuit's baseball stadium, Paul Straub Field at Hyer Family Park, was declared the best high school baseball field in the country by the National High School Baseball Coaches Association in 2011. The school's chief sports rival is the Crusaders of nearby Tampa Catholic High School.\n\nIn 2013–14 Jesuit students gave more than 44,000 hours of community service as part of their mandatory service requirement.\n\nThe Speech and Debate Club has sent seven members to Chicago and a policy team to district nationals twice. Other clubs include SADD, National Honor Society, language honor societies, an award-winning Key Club, religious service group Agmen Christi, Don't Feed the Artists, \"Jesuit Masque\" drama troupe, and the \"Tiger\" newspaper and yearbook. There is a very active school spirit club, Blue Tide.\n\nTo the north of the chapel are the cafeteria, fine arts building, and Jesuit residence. Classroom buildings surround the remaining sides of the chapel. The \"Tiger Palace\" can accommodate an audience of 1,400. The southeast portion of the campus is the home of the renovated athletic center, which was dedicated to alumnus and Major League Baseball Hall of Famer Al López, and the library dedicated to Fr. Richard Hartnett, S.J. Recently, the chapel has been replaced by a larger one and plans are complete for a comprehensive multipurpose building with cafeteria and arts and theater rooms, in a $35 million project.\n\nJesuit has graduated many political leaders, priests, teachers, physicians, journalists, scientists, attorneys, professional athletes, writers, scholars, actors, painters, engineers, entrepreneurs, and, according to Nick Suszynski, Director of Development, 15 judges. The Alumni Association commonly refers to the high school as \"Tampa's largest fraternity.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1812483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812483", "title": "List of cemeteries in Budapest", "text": "List of cemeteries in Budapest\n\nThis is a list of cemeteries in Budapest, Hungary. The most famous of them is \"Kerepesi Cemetery\", one of the biggest national pantheons in Europe, where several Hungarian notables are buried in ornate monuments. The second most significant may be \"Farkasréti Cemetery\", including the graves of further illustrious people.\n\nThe largest cemetery in Budapest (and one of the largest ones in Europe) is \"Új köztemető\" (New Public Cemetery); it comprises an area of about 2.07 km².\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1812491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812491", "title": "Nicola Ventola", "text": "Nicola Ventola\n\nNicola Ventola (born 24 May 1978) is a retired Italian footballer who played as a forward. Ventola played for several clubs in Italy throughout his career, and also had a loan spell with English side Crystal Palace. At international level, he was a member of the Italian under-23 squad at the 2000 Summer Olympics in Sydney; he received his only senior call-up for Italy in 1998, although he did not come off the bench. At youth level, he also represented the Italy under-21 side, and was a member of the team that won the 2000 UEFA European Under-21 Championship, also winning a gold medal at the 1997 Mediterranean Games with the under-23 side. He retired from football in February 2011.\n\nBorn in Grumo Appula, Bari, Nicola Ventola's career began with Bari in 1994 as a youth player. He made his Serie A debut on 6 November 1994 against ACF Fiorentina, at the age of 16 and 166 days. He left the club in 1998 after three more seasons (one in Serie B, winning the 1996–97 title, and two in Serie A), after scoring 12 goals in 45 appearances with the club (10 of which were scored in Serie B and 2 in Serie A).\n\nVentola signed for Inter Milan during the 1998–99 season, making 21 appearances in the league, and scoring 6 goals, playing alongside other notable forwards, such as Ronaldo, Roberto Baggio, Iván Zamorano, Andrea Pirlo, and Youri Djorkaeff, albeit mainly as a substitute. During the season, he showed real star potential for his young age, scoring 11 goals in all competitions, as well as a goal against eventual European Cup winners Manchester United in the quarter-finals of the 1998–99 UEFA Champions League. However, exactly a year later he was signed on a co-ownership deal with Bologna (after Christian Vieri's £32 million transfer to Inter Milan from Lazio) and later Atalanta during the next two seasons, in a swap deal with Corrado Colombo. During his loan period with Bologna, he made 14 appearances in Serie A, without scoring a goal, although he managed 4 goals in 7 appearances in the 1999–2000 Coppa Italia and the 1999–2000 UEFA Cup. With Atalanta, he had a more successful league season, scoring 10 goals in 28 Serie A appearances during the 2000–01 season.\n\nVentola returned to Inter in 2001, but he suffered from several injuries that season, only making 16 appearances and scoring 4 goals in Serie A, as Inter narrowly missed out on the Serie A title; however, he bagged an impressive 5 goals in 9 appearances in Europe, as Inter reached the semi-finals of the UEFA Cup, and finished the season with a total of 10 goals in all competitions. The following season, he was not picked regularly for the first team, and he went on loan once again to Siena in 2003, where he made 28 appearances, scoring 4 goals during the 2003–04 season. Premier League side Crystal Palace signed him on transfer deadline day in August 2004 on a season-long loan but this was wrecked by injury and he only made a handful of appearances. He did however score against Southampton on the penultimate day of the season; in total he made 3 appearances and scored 1 goal during the 2004–05 season.\n\nIn July 2005 Ventola signed a two-year contract with Atalanta. In his first season back at the club, he helped his team to win the 2005–06 Serie B title with his decisive goalscoring performances, scoring 15 goals in 35 appearances. He scored six goals in 29 games during the 2006–07 Serie A season, but he later became excluded from the club and his contract was not renewed. In total he scored 35 goals for the club in 101 appearances between league and Coppa Italia matches over three seasons (two in Serie A and one in Serie B).\n\nIn June 2007 he joined Torino F.C. on a two-year contract. With Torino, he made 21 appearances, scoring 4 goals during his first season; during his second season he received less playing time, scoring 2 goals in 14 appearances. In Torino's 3–1 home loss against Lazio, he replaced Sereni in goal, who had been sent off, as Torino had already made three substitutions, failing to stop a Mauro Zárate penalty. At the end of the season, Torino were relegated to Serie B, and Ventola's contract was not renewed.\n\nVentola subsequently moved to Lega Pro team Novara, making his debut for the team on 9 November 2009, in a 3–0 win over Lecco. He scored his first goal on 17 January 2010, in a draw against Como. On 25 April, he scored a brace in a 3–3 draw against Cremonese, which allowed Novara to win promotion to Serie B. He retired on 27 January 2011, at the age of 33, due to persisting physical problems. In total he score 90 career goals in 342 appearances in official competitions.\n\nVentola played his first competitive international match for the Italy national under-17 football team (made up of players born in and after 1977), in a 1994 UEFA European Under-16 Championship qualifying fixture; in total, he scored 1 goal in 2 appearances for the under-17 side, featuring as a substitute for Ivano Montanaro, and as a starter respectively. He also scored 1 goal in the group stage of the 1996 UEFA European Under-18 Championship for the Italy national under-19 football team, serving as the team's captain. After the team was eliminated, Ventola was immediately promoted to the Italy national under-21 football team as one of their youngest players. He made his debut for the Italy under-21 side on 3 October 1996, at the age of 18, in a 1998 UEFA European Under-21 Championship qualifying match, coming on as a substitute for .\n\nVentola made 25 appearances with the Italy Under-21 and Under-23 sides, scoring 12 goals, winning the 1997 Mediterranean Games and the 2000 UEFA Under-21 European Championship with the team; he also represented Italy at the 2000 Summer Olympics, where they were eliminated in the quarter-finals of the tournament by eventual runners-up Spain.\n\nAlthough he was never capped at senior level, he was called up by manager Dino Zoff to the Italian senior side for a Euro 2000 qualifying match against Switzerland, at the Stadio Friuli of Udine, on 10 October 1998, but remained on the bench as an unused substitute in the eventual 2–0 win.\n\nAn agile and talented right-footed player, with good technique, Ventola was considered one of Bari's and Italy's most promising prospects in his youth, although he suffered many injuries throughout his career. His main attributes as a striker were his speed, power, heading ability, positional sense, eye for goal, and ability to provide depth to his team with his runs. Although he usually played as a central striker, he was also capable of playing in a deeper role as a second striker, due to his ability to link up with and create chances for his teammates.\n\nVentola has a son, Kelian (b. 22 September 2003), with his wife, Swiss-Brazilian model Kartika Luyet. In 2013, Erick Thohir, Inter Milan's president at the time, stated that Ventola is his all-time favorite Inter player. Ventola currently lives in Dubai, where he works as a pundit for Abu Dhabi Media. His nephew Danilo Giacinto Ventola is now a professional footballer.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1812499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812499", "title": "Treaty of Accession 2005", "text": "Treaty of Accession 2005\n\nThe Treaty of Accession 2005 is an agreement between the member states of European Union and Bulgaria and Romania. It entered into force on 1 January 2007. The Treaty arranged accession of Bulgaria and Romania to the EU and amended earlier Treaties of the European Union. As such it is an integral part of the constitutional basis of the European Union.\n\nThe full official name of the Treaty is:\n\nFollowing successful completion of accession negotiations European Council concluded on 17 December 2004 that Bulgaria and Romania were ready to become members of the European Union. A request for assent (C6‑0085/2005) was submitted to the European Parliament.\n\nOn 22 February, the 2005 European Commission delivered a favourable opinion on the accession to the European Union of Bulgaria and Romania. As a result, on 13 April 2005 the European Parliament gave assent to the applications of Bulgaria and Romania to become members of the European Union. The parliament voted in favour of Romania with 497 positive votes, 93 negative votes and 71 abstentions, while Bulgaria received 522 votes in favour, 70 votes against and 69 abstentions. On 25 April 2005 Council of the European Union accepted the applications for admission of Bulgaria and Romania.\n\nThe treaty was signed on 25 April 2005, in Neumünster Abbey, Luxembourg. In addition to the Treaty of Accession a Final Act was signed. The Final Act registers the results of the accession negotiations, including any declarations made by the parties. It also laid down arrangements for the period between signing and entry into force of the treaty. Ratification of the Treaty of Accession is summarized in the table below. The process was completed on 20 December 2006.\nThe default date for entry into force of the Treaty was 1 January 2007. Provisions were made for the postponement of the accession of one or both countries until 1 January 2008. Such a decision could have been taken by the Council of the European Union acting upon recommendation of the European Commission. In its 16 May 2006 monitoring report, the Commission delivered the final recommendation about the date of accession, but requested further progress from Bulgaria and Romania.\nThe 26 September 2006 monitoring report concluded that both countries were sufficiently prepared to meet the political, economic and acquis criteria. It recommended against postponement of accession (instead of delaying membership it was decided to address the shortcomings through a subsequent cooperation and verification mechanism). The treaty entered into force on 1 January 2007.\n\nThe Treaty itself consists of six articles.\n\nArticle 1 arranges the accession of Republic of Bulgaria and Romania to the European Union.\n\nParagraph 1 makes Republic of Bulgaria and Romania full members of the European Union.\n\nParagraph 2 makes both countries parties to the Treaty establishing a Constitution for Europe and to the Treaty establishing the European Atomic Energy Community. Thus Bulgaria and Romania does not have to ratify the Treaty establishing a Constitution for Europe separately.\n\nParagraph 3 makes Protocol that sets the conditions and arrangements for admission and its annexes integral part of the Treaty itself.\n\nParagraph 4 annexes the above-mentioned Protocol to the Treaty establishing a Constitution for Europe and to the Treaty establishing the European Atomic Energy Community and makes its provisions integral part of these treaties.\n\nArticle 2 provides for the situation when the Treaty itself enters into force before the Treaty establishing a Constitution for Europe. Thus it will provide the legal basis of the membership Bulgaria and Romania from 1 January 2007 until the Constitution of Europe is finally implemented in its present form (if ever).\n\nParagraph 1 states that both countries become parties to the Treaties on which the European Union is founded. Provisions of Article 1, paragraphs 2-4 will be applicable only from the date of the entry into force of the Constitution of Europe.\n\nParagraph 2 states that until the above-mentioned event the conditions of admission and the adjustments to the Treaties on which the Union is founded will be provided by the Act annexed to the Treaty, which forms integral part of the Treaty itself.\n\nParagraph 3 arranges substitution of the Act with the Protocol upon the entry into force of the Constitution of Europe and legal consequences of this switch.\n\nArticle 3 defines all member states of European union, including Bulgaria and Romania as equal in respect of all Treaties of the Union, including this one.\n\nArticle 4 is about ratification and entry into force of the Treaty.\n\nParagraph 1 stipulates that the Treaty should be ratified by all parties by 31 December 2006 and ratification instruments should be deposited with the Italian government.\n\nParagraph 2 and 3 define the data from which the Treaty enters into force, mechanism for eventual postponement in respect of one or both of the acceding states, and provides for the situation when one or more country have ratified the Treaty, but have failed to deposit the ratification instruments by 1 January 2007. The ratification procedures were completed in time and the Treaty entered into force on 1 January 2007 on the territory of all member states.\n\nArticle 5 stipulates that the Treaty establishing a Constitution for Europe drawn up in the Bulgarian and Romanian languages shall be annexed to this Treaty and they will be authentic under the same conditions as the texts in all other official languages of the European union.\n\nArticle 6 states that the Treaty exists as a single original drawn in all official languages of the European Union. Each of these texts is equally authentic and the original will be deposited with the Italian government, while all parties will receive certified copies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1812503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812503", "title": "Jabez Bryce", "text": "Jabez Bryce\n\nJabez Leslie Bryce (January 1935 – February 11, 2010) was a Tongan-born Anglican bishop. He was the Bishop of Polynesia in the Province of New Zealand, which includes most of the South Pacific. He served from 1975 until his death in 2010. He was elevated to Archepiscopacy of the diocese in 2006.\n\nBryce was the first Pacific Islander to become an Anglican bishop. At the time of his death in 2010, he was the longest serving bishop in the worldwide Anglican Communion.\n\nBryce was born in Vavaʻu, Tonga. He was raised in Samoa and trained for the Anglican ministry in Auckland, New Zealand.\n\nHe was named the Bishop of the Diocese of Polynesia in 1975 and consecrated a bishop, presented and installed on 11 May 1975. He was based in Suva, Fiji, where he lived for more than 50 years.\n\nAs bishop, Bryce advocated for a number of causes affecting the Pacific Islands region. During the 1970s, Bryce became a leading opponent of French nuclear testing in Mururoa Atoll, French Polynesia. More recently, Bryce spoke out strongly against both the 2000 and 2006 coups.\n\nHe was a member of the Pacific Conference of Churches. He also served within the World Council of Churches as the president of the Pacificregion. Bryce became the Archbishop and Co-presiding Bishop from 2006. In 2008, he became the Primate, or Tikanga Pasefika, of the Anglican Church in Aotearoa, New Zealand and Polynesia.\n\nBryce died on 11 February 2010, in Suva, Fiji, after a short illness. He was survived by his wife Tilisi and two children.\n"}
{"id": "1812510", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812510", "title": "Inverness (provincial electoral district)", "text": "Inverness (provincial electoral district)\n\nInverness is a provincial electoral district on Cape Breton Island, Nova Scotia, Canada, that elects one member of the Nova Scotia House of Assembly.\n\nInitially created with the name \"Juste-au-Corps\", the electoral district of Inverness has existed in various forms since 1836. The name was changed to Inverness after lobbying by William Young. It existed continuously as Inverness County until 1981 when it was divided into Inverness North and Inverness South. It was re-formed in 1993.\n\nFollowing the 2012 redistribution, the district lost the Town of Port Hawkesbury to the new district of Cape Breton-Richmond.\n\nInverness have elected the following Members of the Legislative Assembly:\n\nInverness returned two members from 1867-1981.\n\n \n\n \n\n"}
{"id": "1812512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812512", "title": "Neutron star spin-up", "text": "Neutron star spin-up\n\nNeutron star spin up is the name given to the increase in rotational speed over time first noted in Cen X-3 and Her X-1 but now observed in other X-ray pulsars. In the case of Cen X-3, the pulse period is decreasing over a timescale of 3.4·10 years (defined as formula_1, where formula_2 is the rotation period and formula_3 is the rate of change in the rotation period).\n\nEver since the detection of the first millisecond pulsar (MSP), it has been theorized that MSPs are neutron stars that have been spun up by accretion in a close binary system. The change in rotational period of the neutron star comes from the transition region between the magnetosphere and the plasma flow from the companion star. In this context the magnetosphere is defined as the region of space surrounding the neutron star, in which the magnetic field determines the motion of the plasma. Inside the magnetic field, the plasma will eventually co-rotate with the neutron star while in the transition region, angular momentum from the accretion disk will be transferred via the magnetic field to the neutron star, leading to the spin-up.\n\nStellar spin-down\n"}
{"id": "1812529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812529", "title": "Antigonish (provincial electoral district)", "text": "Antigonish (provincial electoral district)\n\nAntigonish is a provincial electoral district in Nova Scotia, Canada, that elects one member of the Nova Scotia House of Assembly. It has existed since 1867 and is one of only four Nova Scotian districts that has existed continuously since Canadian Confederation.\n\nThe district includes the community of Antigonish, and the surrounding Antigonish County. It is bordered by Pictou East to the west, Guysborough-Sheet Harbour to its south, the Strait of Canso to the east, and the Northumberland Strait to the north.\n\nWith the electoral boundary changes announced on September 12, 2012, the area east of Tracadie River is moved to the new riding of Guysborough–Eastern Shore–Tracadie.\n\nIts Member of the Legislative Assembly since 2013 is Randy Delorey of the Nova Scotia Liberal Party.\n\nThis riding has elected the following Members of the Legislative Assembly:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1812530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812530", "title": "KBCW (TV)", "text": "KBCW (TV)\n\nKBCW, virtual channel 44 (UHF digital channel 45), is a CW owned-and-operated television station licensed to San Francisco, California, United States, serving the San Francisco Bay Area as the network's West Coast flagship outlet. The station is owned by the CBS Television Stations subsidiary of ViacomCBS, as part of a duopoly with CBS owned-and-operated station KPIX-TV (channel 5), also licensed to San Francisco. The two stations share studios at Broadway and Battery Street, just north of San Francisco's Financial District; KBCW's transmitter is located atop Sutro Tower. The station is available on channel 12 on most cable providers in the Bay Area and has equally promoted this channel placement in its branding for decades. There is no separate website for KBCW; instead, it is integrated with that of sister station KPIX-TV.\n\nThe station first signed on the air on January 2, 1968, as KBHK-TV (standing for Kaiser Broadcasting/Henry Kaiser); it was originally owned by Kaiser Broadcasting (established by steel/aluminum and shipbuilding industrialist Henry J. Kaiser [1882-1967]) and which owned other UHF independent stations in Los Angeles, Detroit, Philadelphia, Boston, Chicago and Cleveland. KBHK-TV was the third independent station in the San Francisco Bay area behind San Jose-based KGSC-TV (channel 36, now KICU-TV) and Oakland-based KTVU (channel 2), and the first independent licensed to San Francisco.\n\nThe station was originally based in studios located at 650 California Street. Several key scenes from the Robert Redford-starring political election intrigue movie \"The Candidate\" (1970) were filmed in KBHK's studio at 420 Taylor Street (originally NBC \"Red Network\" Radio Studios). Many of KBHK's technicians appeared in the movie as themselves. Kaiser Broadcasting later merged with Chicago-based Field Communications (Marshall Field, (1834–1906, founder of empire including famous department store chain and later descendants branching into media with broadcasting flagship TV station WFLD among others, and daily newspaper, the \"Chicago Sun-Times\" and defunct tabloid \"Chicago Daily News\") in 1973 as part of a joint venture between the companies. In 1977, Kaiser sold its interest in the stations to Field, making Field the sole owner of KBHK. Field later put its stations up for sale in 1982, and KBHK was sold to United Television in 1983. KBHK maintained a general entertainment program schedule that included morning and afternoon children's blocks, off-network sitcoms (such as \"The Brady Bunch\"), feature films, and public affairs programming. At one point, KBHK advertised itself as the \"Bay Area's Movie Station\" and aired a movie in prime time six nights a week. At various times during the 1970s and 1980s, KBHK was the flagship TV affiliate of the Oakland Athletics, pre-empting regular programming to telecast the baseball games.\n\nSeveral local programs produced at KBHK were syndicated nationally including \"Leonard Nimoy's Star Trek Memories\" (distributed by Paramount Television) and \"The Twilight Zone Special\" (distributed by Viacom). In 1993, the station began carrying programs from the Prime Time Entertainment Network programming service (which was owned jointly by Chris-Craft/United Television and Warner Bros. Entertainment) which it carried until January 1995.\n\nIn 1994, Chris-Craft/United Television partnered with Paramount Television to launch the United Paramount Network (UPN). As a result of Chris-Craft/United's interest in the network, UPN signed affiliation deals with both the company's independent stations (along with those owned by the Paramount Stations Group) to become charter owned-and-operated stations of the network. KBHK joined UPN when it launched on January 16, 1995. The station continued with its programming format, essentially continuing to program similarly to an independent as UPN would not expand to five nights a week of programming until 1998. The older sitcoms and cartoons (such as \"The Real Adventures of Jonny Quest\" and \"Sailor Moon\") were gradually replaced during the late 1990s and early 2000s with more recent sitcoms, talk shows, game shows, court shows and reality shows.\n\nIn 2000, Viacom bought Chris-Craft's 50% ownership interest in UPN (which Chris-Craft had wholly owned, until Viacom acquired a stake in the network in 1996), stripping KBHK's status as an O&O. On August 12 of that year, Chris-Craft sold its UPN stations to the Fox Television Stations subsidiary of News Corporation for $5.5 billion; the deal that was finalized on July 31, 2001. Fox subsequently traded KBHK-TV to Viacom in exchange for KTXH in Houston and WDCA in Washington, D.C., thus returning KBHK's status as an O&O. Viacom had purchased CBS a year earlier, resulting in the creation of a duopoly between KBHK and CBS O&O KPIX.\n\nSince News Corporation also owned the Fox network at the time (the company split in two in 2013; the company that now owns the network is Fox Corporation); the trade protected the former Cox-owned KTVU as the Bay Area's Fox affiliate (Fox would later purchase KTVU and sister station KICU in exchange for their Boston station WFXT and Memphis station WHBQ-TV in October 2014). The Viacom purchase also reunited KBHK with Detroit's WKBD, which had been purchased by Paramount Stations Group (which was in the process of being sold to Viacom, through that company's acquisition of Paramount) in 1993. After its purchase by Viacom was finalized, KBHK moved from its original longtime studios on California Street in the Nob Hill area and integrated its operations with KPIX at their studios on Battery Street.\n\nOn January 24, 2006, the Warner Bros. unit of Time Warner and CBS Corporation announced that the two companies would shut down The WB and UPN and combine the networks' respective programming to create a new \"fifth\" network called The CW. On the day of the announcement, the network signed a ten-year affiliation deal with 11 of CBS Corporation's 15 UPN stations, including KBHK. However, it is likely that KBHK would have been chosen even without the affiliation deal. Network representatives were on record as preferring the \"strongest\" WB and UPN affiliates in terms of viewership, and KBHK had been well ahead of WB affiliate KBWB-TV (channel 20, now KOFY-TV) in the ratings for virtually all of UPN's run.\n\nKBCW holds the distinction of being The CW's West Coast flagship station, even though this position is normally assigned to a Los Angeles station; CBS Corporation does not own a CW station in that market—the company owns KCAL-TV, which it runs as an independent station, while L.A.'s CW affiliate KTLA (owned by Nexstar Media Group) serves as its largest station in the West Coast (in terms of market size). With the launch of The CW, KBCW became the Bay Area's only major English-language network (and network-owned) station on the UHF dial. To reflect the new affiliation, KBHK officially changed its call letters to KBCW on July 1, 2006. In June 2013, the station changed its logo from the generic design used since The CW's launch to a version utilizing the station's call letters (also being utilized by The CW's Des Moines, Iowa affiliate KCWI).\n\nOn December 4, 2019, CBS Corporation and Viacom remerged into ViacomCBS.\n\nThe station's digital signal is multiplexed:\nKBCW shut down its analog signal, over UHF channel 44, on June 12, 2009, as part of the federally mandated transition from analog to digital television. The station's digital signal remained on its pre-transition UHF channel 45, using PSIP to display KBCW's virtual channel as 44 on digital television receivers (KTVU, virtual channel 2, now utilizes UHF channel 44 for its post-transition digital signal). \n\nIn the first years of the existence of digital television (pre-dating the 2004 establishment of the PSIP standard), the station promoted both its analog and digital channel positions with equal weight within its logo, having been among the first digital television stations in the nation (and by that virtue among the first to carry UPN programming in HD), and launching service in 1998.\n\nIn addition to the CW network schedule, syndicated programming on KBCW includes \"The Goldbergs\", \"The People's Court\", \"2 Broke Girls\", \"Two and a Half Men\" and \"Family Feud\" among others. The station is considered an alternate CBS affiliate, and as such, KBCW may air CBS network programs as time permits in the event that KPIX is unable to in the event of extended breaking news coverage or special event programming, such as San Francisco 49ers preseason games; the \"CBS Dream Team\" Saturday morning children's block, for example, airs on KBCW due to live CBS Sports coverage on KPIX that airs on the network in the early afternoon in the Eastern Time Zone (the \"Dream Team\" block would itself pre-empt The CW's \"One Magnificent Morning\" block). KBCW also airs rebroadcasts of CBS News programs \"Face the Nation\" and \"CBS Sunday Morning\", and local programs produced by KPIX such as \"Eye on the Bay\" and the \"Last Honest Sports Show\".\n\nOver the years at various times, KBHK served as the television home of Major League Baseball's Oakland Athletics, the NBA's Golden State Warriors, the now-defunct California Golden Seals NHL franchise and preseason games from the NFL's San Francisco 49ers. In 2020, the station began to broadcast the home games of the Oakland Panthers of the Indoor Football League.\n\nThe station attempted to produce a nightly newscast in the 1970s, only to eventually cancel the program due to low ratings. On March 3, 2008, KPIX began producing a nightly half-hour primetime newscast at 10:00 p.m. for KBCW; this program competes against KTVU's longer-established and hour-long newscast, whose viewership is generally the largest among all the market's late newscasts from 10:00–11:35 p.m. The KBCW program has been produced in high definition since its debut. In July 2014, the weeknight newscast was renamed \"Bay Area Nightbeat\" while the weekend newscast stayed as \"KPIX 5 News,\" while the newscast came to an end on December 6, 2019, the station now provides an hour of CBSN Bay Area weeknights at 10. In January 2012, KPIX-TV began producing an hour-long extension of its weekend morning newscast for KBCW airing on Sundays at 8:30 a.m. In early 2015, KBCW began to simulcast \"Good Day\" from Sacramento sister CW station KMAX on weekdays from 7 to 10 a.m. and weekends from 8 to 11 a.m.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1812532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812532", "title": "Annapolis (provincial electoral district)", "text": "Annapolis (provincial electoral district)\n\nAnnapolis is a provincial electoral district in Nova Scotia, Canada, that elects one member of the Nova Scotia House of Assembly.\n\nThe district was created in 1867 and was abolished in 1953 when it was re-distributed into Annapolis East and Annapolis West. The district was re-formed in 1993 and its boundaries were changed following the 2012 electoral reform commission to include the portion of Digby-Annapolis within Annapolis County north of Maitland Bridge.\n\nThe district includes the entirety of Annapolis County including the municipalities of Annapolis Royal and Middleton.\n\nSince 2003, the district has been represented by Stephen McNeil who is the 28th Premier of Nova Scotia and Leader of the Liberal Party of Nova Scotia.\n\nThe electoral district has been represented by the following Members of the Legislative Assembly:\n\n \n\n} \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1812544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812544", "title": "Lucius Cornelius Balbus", "text": "Lucius Cornelius Balbus\n\nLucius Cornelius Balbus may refer to:\n"}
{"id": "1812545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812545", "title": "Birtle", "text": "Birtle\n\nBirtle may refer to:\n"}
{"id": "1812551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812551", "title": "Totally Hair Barbie", "text": "Totally Hair Barbie\n\nTotally Hair Barbie (also known as Ultra Hair Barbie in Europe) was released in 1992. The doll's extra-long hair reached all the way to her toes. More than ten million Totally Hair Barbie dolls were sold worldwide, making Totally Hair Barbie the best-selling Barbie doll in Mattel's history. Totally Hair Barbie was a hit with children between 1992 and around 1995, holding a record for the world's longest successful toy sale. In 2017, Mattel rereleased the doll for her 25th anniversary, and it is faithful to the original, with some minor changes.\n"}
{"id": "1812566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812566", "title": "Manuel Aznar Zubigaray", "text": "Manuel Aznar Zubigaray\n\nManuel Aznar Zubigaray (Etxalar, Navarre, 1893 – Madrid, 1975) was a diplomat in the Francoist government and one of the most important journalists of the 20th century in Spain.\n\nHe was Director of some of the most important Spanish newspapers of the time, like \"El Sol\" and \"La Vanguardia Española\", the latter in Francoist Spain. He participated in many literary projects with his friend, Manuel Halcón, Marquis of Villar del Tajo. He also was director and one of the founders of the news agency EFE, President of the Madrid Journalist Association, Plenipotentiary Minister in the United States of America, and Spanish Ambassador to the UN, Morocco, and some countries in Latin America such as Argentina and the Dominican Republic. Besides his career in diplomacy and journalism, thanks to his close friendship with Juan Lladó y Sánchez-Blanco, he worked in the management of Banco Urquijo (now Banco Sabadell-Urquijo) being an executive of the bank during the presidency of his friend.\n\nHe was married to Mercedes Gómez-Acedo y Villanueva (sister of the footballer Domingo Acedo) in Hendaye and had five sons. His grandson José María Aznar served as Prime Minister of Spain between 1996 and 2004.\n\nAs a young man he was a firm supporter of Basque nationalism, a contributor to the radical newspaper \"La Tradición Navarra\" and the editor of \"Euzkadi\". In 1914, he staged his \"El jardín del mayorazgo\" theatre play, which is not accessible nowadays, and that his rival Indalecio Prieto described as strongly anti-Spanish.\n\nAznar Zubigaray joined the Basque Nationalist Party in 1916, later he said before that he never supported the radical thesis that later took over the party. Since 1914, he had worked as a correspondent from World War I frontlines, which earned him the position of editor-in-chief at the central \"El Sol\" newspaper. During his time as director, he incorporated many of the most prestigious intellectuals of his time like Fernando de los Ríos, Américo Castro, Ramón Basterra, Ramón J. Sender, Miguel de Unamuno or Azorín. With 22 years he was the Director of one of the most important Spanish newspapers of all time and the rumors of him being the better paid journalist of Spain arose.\n\nIn 1922, he and his family left for Cuba, where Manuel Aznar Zubigaray worked for several local newspapers. He directed El Diario de la Marina and El País of Cuba, returning with the proclamation of the Second Spanish Republic (1931). Nonetheless, he still had ties with Latin America, thus being correspondent in Madrid for the Cuban, Diario de la Marina and the argentinian, La Nación. His article: \"Cuba, lecciones de una derrota\" was awarded the Spanish \"Premio Juan Palomo\" for the best article of the year.\n\nDuring the Republican period, he was part of the establishment and supported conservative politicians such as Miguel Maura, moving later to the centrist Democratic Centre Party of Portela Valladares. With this Centrist Party he tried being elected to the Spanish Parliament but he was unsuccessful. In 1936, with the start of the Spanish Civil War, Aznar Zubigaray left for Burgos and offered his services to the Nationalist army and the Falange. Having directed the liberal and regenerationist \"El Sol\" caused him problems and at first he was sentenced to death by both sides of the Civil War. Throughout the war, he was an important author of chronicles of the main military events. In 1940-1943, Aznar wrote his most important works, the \"Historia militar de la Guerra de España (1936–1939)\" (\"Military History of the Spanish War\") and \"Historia de la Cruzada\" (\"History of the Crusade\").\n\nBetween 1964 and 1967 he was Spain's ambassador to the United Nations. He also served this role in Morocco, Argentina and the Dominican Republic.\n\nHe received many Spanish and international awards. Most of its international awards came because of his pro-allies views during the First World War. The United Kingdom, the Netherlands and France honored him by making him Knight of their Civil Orders. As well as this, Syria named him Knight of its Merit Order. Spain named him Knight of the Order of Charles III, the most important civil decoration in the country, as well as other Civil and Military awards.\n\nJuan Luis Cebrián, director of El País, underlined the importance of Manuel Aznar saying that he promoted the importance of journalism to promote and restore democracy.\n\nHe is still a controversial person in Spain with critics such as Gregorio Morán, Iñaki Anasagasti or his socialist rival Indalecio Prieto and supporters such as the Count of Rodas, the lawyer Antonio Garrigues Díaz-Cabañate, The Arab League or Manuel Fraga that praised him when he died as a great diplomat and journalist.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1812594", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812594", "title": "Lunenburg West", "text": "Lunenburg West\n\nLunenburg West is a provincial electoral district in Nova Scotia, Canada, that elects one member of the Nova Scotia House of Assembly. It was created in 1956 from the riding of Lunenburg County.\n\nThe riding includes the town of Bridgewater, LaHave, and Hebbville.\n\nThis riding has elected the following Members of the Legislative Assembly:\n\n \n\n \n\n \n\n \n\n \n\n \n\n \n\n"}
{"id": "1812595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812595", "title": "Kingdom of Burundi", "text": "Kingdom of Burundi\n\nThe Kingdom of Burundi () or Kingdom of Urundi (\"Royaume d'Urundi\") was a polity ruled by a traditional monarch in modern-day Republic of Burundi in the Great Lakes region of East Africa. The kingdom, majority ethnic Hutu, was ruled by a monarch from the Tutsi ethnic group with the title of \"mwami\". Created in the 17th century, the kingdom was preserved under European colonial rule in the late 19th and early 20th century and was an independent state between 1962 and 1966.\n\nThe date of the foundation of the Kingdom of Burundi is unknown but probably dates back to the 17th century when the Tutsi ethnic group gained dominance over the larger ethnic Hutu population of the region. Under \"mwami\" Ntare I (1675–1705), the kingdom expanded and annexed a number of surrounding polities. Although ruled by the \"mwami\", the kingdom was extensively decentralised and local sub-rulers had wide independence. Before the arrival of European colonists, succession struggles were also common.\n\nIn 1890, Burundi became part of the German colonial empire as part of German East Africa but was not effectively occupied or controlled by the colonial power. During World War I, Belgian troops from the neighbouring Belgian Congo invaded the region and occupied it. The Belgians were awarded Burundi, together with the neighbouring Kingdom of Rwanda, as an international mandate by the League of Nations. The Belgians, however, preserved many of the kingdom's institutions intact.\n\nWhereas the similar Rwandan monarchy was abolished in a revolution between 1959 and 1961, the Burundian monarchy succeeded in surviving into the post-colonial period. In 1962, the Kingdom of Burundi regained its independence as a constitutional monarchy in which the \"mwami\" held executive power and legislative power was given to the parliament. By late 1963, the Burundian government allowed Congolese revolutionary Gaston Soumialot to recruit thousands of fighters along the Burundian-Congolese border. Soumialot and his troops consequently participated in the Simba rebellion.\n\nEthnic violence between the Hutu majority and the Tutsi minority rose between 1963 and 1965 and culminated with a failed coup d'état against the monarchy of Mwambutsa IV in 1965. Mwambutsa's son, Ntare V, deposed his father in a July 1966 coup d'état, but was himself ousted from power in a November 1966 coup d'état by his Prime Minister, Michel Micombero, who abolished the monarchy.\n\nMost members of the royal house live in exile in France today. In the 2005 elections, Princess Esther Kamatari ran for president for the Party for the Restoration of Monarchy and Dialogue in Burundi (Abahuza). Supporters believe that a restoration of a constitutional monarchy could help to ease the country's ethnic tensions.\n\nThe flag of the kingdom contained a \"karyenda\" in the center as a symbol of royal authority.\n\n"}
{"id": "1812596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812596", "title": "Tittybong, Victoria", "text": "Tittybong, Victoria\n\nTittybong is a locality in the northwest of Victoria, Australia, within the Shires of Gannawarra and Buloke. Tittybong is located west of Kerang and east of the Calder Highway. It is south of Swan Hill, Tittybong's nearest large town. At the 2016 Census, Tittybong had a population of 3.\n\nThe Tittybong Post Office opened on 1 January 1884 and closed in 1968.\n"}
{"id": "1812604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812604", "title": "WWLP", "text": "WWLP\n\nWWLP, virtual channel 22 (VHF digital channel 11), is a dual NBC/CW+-affiliated television station licensed to Springfield, Massachusetts, United States, serving the Pioneer Valley of Western Massachusetts. The station is owned by Nexstar Media Group. WWLP's studios are located at Broadcast Center in the Sandy Hill section of Chicopee at the northwest corner of the I-391/MA 116/Chicopee Street interchange, and its transmitter is located on Provin Mountain in the Feeding Hills section of Agawam.\n\nWWLP operates a full-time low-power digital repeater, WFXQ-CD (UHF channel 28, also mapped to virtual channel 22 via PSIP), whose transmitter is located at the top of the old Mount Tom Ski Area in Holyoke. WFXQ-CD allows viewers in the core of the Springfield market UHF access to WWLP's signal, as VHF antennas have some issues with reception in the digital age, and with all other Springfield stations carried on UHF channels, it allows those viewers to use one type of antenna rather than two.\n\nDue to the close proximity of the Springfield–Holyoke and Hartford–New Haven markets, many stations in Connecticut can be viewed in the Southern Pioneer Valley. Since WWLP's transmitter on Provin Mountain is not far from the state line, its signal can be picked up in northern areas of the state. WVIT (channel 30), which serves as the NBC station for all of Connecticut except Fairfield County (which is served by network flagship WNBC in New York City), is currently the only Hartford–New Haven big three station offered on Comcast Xfinity's basic tier. Charter Spectrum customers in the Pioneer Valley have access to WVIT, but only with a digital set top box.\n\nWWLP serves as the master control hub for most of Nexstar Media Group's northeastern U.S. stations.\n\nWWLP began broadcasting on March 17, 1953 one month before rival WGGB-TV (then known as WHYN-TV). The station aired an analog signal on UHF channel 61 and was an NBC affiliate from the start. At its sign-on, WWLP had the distinction of being one of the first UHF television stations in the United States after the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) opened the UHF band as well as Massachusetts' oldest station outside of Boston. It was founded by William L. Putnam and his company, Springfield Television. WWLP's original studios were at the transmitter site on Provin Mountain in Feeding Hills.\n\nIt switched frequencies to UHF channel 22 on July 2, 1955. The previous analog allotment would remain unused until the second WTIC-TV signed-on from Hartford in 1984. From its beginnings, the Springfield–Holyoke market was designated as a \"UHF island\" because it was too close to Boston, Hartford–New Haven, and the Capital District of New York State for VHF analog service. As a result of technical limitations UHF stations faced in the 1950s, WWLP's signal was not viewable in much of the northern portion of the market (which at the time included Brattleboro, Vermont and Keene, New Hampshire). The station would sign-on two full-time satellites to solve that problem and extend its broadcasting radius (see below). WWLP was also at a disadvantage in its early years, as UHF stations could not be viewed without the use of an expensive external converter that received UHF signals (it wasn't until the passing of the All-Channel Receiver Act in 1962 that all TVs were required to have them built in). From 1975 until 1979, the station aired nationally syndicated National Hockey League games from The NHL Network (not to be confused with the present-day cable network of the same name).\n\nAfter three decades, Putnam retired from broadcasting in 1984 by selling his company and its three stations (WWLP, KSTU-TV, and WKEF) to Adams Communications. Adams ran into financial trouble and began breaking up the Springfield Television group in 1987 with the sale of KSTU to MWT Ltd. Adams sold WKEF to KT Communications in 1989 before selling WWLP to Brisette Broadcasting in 1991. However, Brisette himself ran into trouble and merged his group with Benedek Broadcasting at the end of 1995. LIN TV Corporation acquired WWLP in 2000 by swapping KAKE-TV in Wichita, Kansas and WOWT-TV in Omaha, Nebrask to Benedek. This was a result of Chronicle Broadcasting, which owned the latter two, being liquidated. The sale could be seen as the ultimate undoing for Benedek which in 2002 declared bankruptcy and sold most of their stations (including WOWT and KAKE) to Gray Television.\n\nIn early 2000, the station's studios and offices moved to their current home in the Sandy Hill area of Chicopee. However, its transmitter remained in Feeding Hills. Shortly after the change, then-pending owner LIN TV constructed an addition at WWLP's new facilities which would serve as a master control hub for company-owned stations in the Northeast. At this location, room for future expansion was made in the event LIN TV expanded their Northeast properties. That eventually became the case with sister stations WTNH, WCTX, WPRI-TV (LIN TV flagship), and WNAC-TV having master control and some internal operations currently located at the Chicopee studios.\n\nWWLP was well known for producing \"As Schools Match Wits\", one of American television's earliest and longest-running high school quiz programs. The program first aired in October 1961. In September 2006, the show was canceled by the station because of the costs associated with new FCC regulations requiring all over-the-air television programming in the United States to be closed-captioned for the deaf and hard of hearing. The show returned to the air in January 2007, airing now on the area's PBS member station WGBY-TV (channel 57) and co-produced with Westfield State College.\n\nOn May 18, 2007, LIN TV announced that it was exploring strategic alternatives including the sale of the company. On March 21, 2014, Media General announced that it would purchase LIN Media and its stations, including WWLP and WFXQ-CD, in a $1.6 billion merger. The merger was completed on December 19.\n\nOn September 8, 2015, Media General announced that it would acquire the Meredith Corporation for $2.4 billion, with the combined group to be renamed Meredith Media General once the sale was finalized. Because Meredith already owns WGGB-TV, and the Springfield–Holyoke market does not have enough full-power television stations to legally allow a duopoly in any event (WGGB-TV and WWLP are the only full-power licenses assigned to the market), the companies would have been required to sell either WGGB-TV or WWLP to comply with FCC ownership rules as well as recent changes to those rules regarding same-market television stations that restrict sharing agreements had the sale gone through. Meredith-owned CBS affiliate WSHM-LD (channel 3) was the only one of the three stations affected by the merger that could legally be acquired by Meredith Media General, as FCC rules permit common ownership of full-power and low-power stations regardless of the number of stations within a single market. On January 27, 2016, however, Nexstar Broadcasting Group announced that it had reached an agreement to acquire Media General, who subsequently abandoned its plans to purchase Meredith.\n\nIn 1957, WRLP in Greenfield signed-on as a full-time satellite of WWLP. WRLP served the northern portion of the Pioneer Valley market, where WWLP's signal was marginal at best due to the area's rugged and mountainous terrain. From a transmitter on Gunn Mountain in Winchester, New Hampshire (one of the highest points in the region), WRLP could also be seen in Springfield as well, creating a strong combined signal with over 50 percent overlap.\n\nIn 1958, Putnam purchased a defunct station in Worcester, WWOR-TV (no relation to the current Secaucus, New Jersey/Tri-State station with the same callsign), and returned it to the air as a second full-time satellite of WWLP. However, Worcester is part of the Boston market, and WWLP was forced to limit WWOR's broadcast day to only six hours in order to protect the interests of WBZ-TV, then Boston's NBC affiliate. In 1964, WWOR changed its calls to WJZB-TV and became an independent station while continuing to simulcast some programming from WWLP.\n\nWRLP and WJZB eventually went off the air due to financial difficulties, with WJZB going dark in 1969 followed by WRLP in 1978. Almost immediately after WRLP left the air, its transmitter was shipped to Salt Lake City, Utah in order to launch KSTU, an independent sister station on UHF channel 20. That station eventually became a Fox affiliate on analog VHF channel 13 operating under a different owner.\n\nWWLP-DT2, branded on air as The CW Springfield, is the CW+-affiliated second digital subchannel of WWLP, broadcasting in 720p high definition on VHF channel 11.2 (or virtual channel 22.2 via PSIP). On cable, the subchannel is available on Xfinity channel 5 and Spectrum channel 13 to viewers in Hampden, Hampshire, and Franklin counties.\n\nWhat is now WWLP-DT2 began its life in September 1998 as WBQT, a cable-only affiliate of The WB through the national WB 100+ service. Since it was only available on cable, the call sign was fictional in nature solely for the purposes of electronic program guide and rating diary identification, and thus not officially recognized by the FCC. As a WB 100+ station, it was one of the few in the group that was not aligned with an established over-the-air station in the market. WBQT did not initially replace out-of-market WB affiliates (such as WPIX from New York City, WBNE from Hartford, which was later replaced with WTXX, and WLVI from Boston) on local cable systems.\n\nIn 1999, WBQT was taken off of AT&T Broadband systems serving the majority of the Springfield–Holyoke market. When Comcast took over AT&T's cable system in 2001, the company began a push to expand WBQT's reach. In late 2001, it replaced out-of-market WB affiliates on most systems with near total replacement taking place by 2003 (mainly taking the cable channel positions formerly held by WTXX, following a pattern where WSHM-LP replaced Hartford CBS affiliate WFSB on channel 3 and new Fox affiliate WGGB-DT2 replaced WTIC-TV on channel 6 in the Springfield market upon their launches). Throughout the station's affiliation with The WB, it was known on-air as \"Pioneer Valley's WB 16\" (named after its channel location) and had its own logo.\n\nOn January 24, 2006, The WB and UPN announced the two networks would shut down and merge into a new network, The CW. The next few months saw uncertainty about The CW's place in Springfield due to a lack of broadcast stations in the market and The CW's preference for over-the-air affiliates, along with cable providers then not being receptive to picking up digital subchannels. UPN service was provided by New Haven's WCTX via cable in the Springfield market, but WTXX, being Tribune-owned, was named a charter affiliate in The CW's launch announcement, shutting out WCTX from the CW affiliation entirely. As WBQT had no web presence or communications department as a WB 100+ affiliate, there was no word about it becoming the Springfield affiliate for The CW, nor of a return of WTXX to market cable systems.\n\nThere was an early-2006 sign-on of low-powered W28CT broadcasting from the summit of the old Mount Tom Ski Area in Holyoke. After a short period of time, the station's call letters were changed to WXCW-CA in anticipation of it becoming an affiliate of that network. In August 2006, the call letters changed again to WFXQ-CA after word was confirmed that WBQT would continue operations as Springfield's CW affiliate. The station (now WFXQ-CD) eventually became a full-time repeater of WWLP.\n\nAs it joined The CW, WBQT also became part of The CW Plus, a similar operation to The WB 100+. The station began airing promotions of the new network, with WBQT's branding becoming \"Pioneer Valley CW\". The network launched on September 18 with proper on-air changes on WBQT, along with a website on The CW Plus's web presence with schedule information. It branded solely by its listed branding, discounting its varied market channel positions (Comcast 16 and Charter 13). During its cable-exclusive period with The WB and The CW, the station did not have an actual owner and had a signal provided to cable companies through a closed circuit satellite feed.\n\nWWLP-DT2 originally signed on in 2007, airing a live feed of its weather radar, with no background audio. As a byproduct of an affiliation agreement between LIN TV and TheCoolTV to carry the music video network on LIN's stations, WWLP affiliated with the network on its second digital subchannel in 2010. The network was dropped on July 15, 2013, with the subchannel remaining dark for the next 20 months.\n\nOn December 23, 2014, as part of a long-term affiliation renewal with the network, Media General announced that WWLP and WFXQ-CD would affiliate their respective second digital subchannels with The CW, allowing the former cable-exclusive \"WBQT\" channel serving the market to have an over-the-air presence. On January 1, 2015, WWLP took over promotional and advertising responsibilities of WBQT from the area's cable companies. As a result, the service was added to the second subchannel of WWLP in order to offer over-the-air viewers access to The CW for the first time. The main station launched a prime time newscast at 10:00 p.m. on this CW subchannel on April 13, 2015. It also started replaying WWLP's weekday morning lifestyle show, \"Mass Appeal\", at 1:00 p.m., and as of April 1, WBQT \"Pioneer Valley CW\" was re-branded as \"The CW Springfield\" as well.\n\nXfinity began carrying the subchannel's high definition feed on digital channel 820 on April 1, 2015, with Charter adding the feed on digital channel 788 in mid-April 2015 (for viewers in Hampden, Hampshire, and Franklin counties), making CW programming available in HD in the Pioneer Valley for the first time.\n\nWWLP-DT3 is the Ion Television-affiliated third digital subchannel of WWLP, broadcasting in standard definition on VHF channel 11.3 (or virtual channel 22.3 via PSIP).\n\nOn November 5, 2015, WWLP soft-launched a standard definition feed of Ion Television's main signal over subchannel 22.3 as part of Media General's carriage agreement of the network in markets without a dedicated Ion affiliate. New London, Connecticut-based WHPX-TV has served as the market's nominal affiliate for years with some cable coverage; until its move to a tower in Farmington in 2019, it transmitted from Montville closer to New London in southeastern Connecticut, assuring poor over Pioneer Valley reception, thus the national feed has mainly been offered by local providers who carry the network.\n\nIn April 2017, Charter Communications was forced to drop WWLP in Berkshire County, due to new terms in NBC's retransmission consent agreements which require that only the station assigned to that community can be carried on a cable system. As Berkshire County is a part of the Albany–Schenectady–Troy, New York media market, Charter was thus required to black out WWLP's non-local programming in preference to Albany's WNYT (channel 13); the provider thus chose to drop fully WWLP instead in order to reduce the hassle of maintaining a 'clean feed' of WWLP on its own. Other Springfield stations, along with Boston's WCVB-TV, were also dropped due to the same concerns.\n\nBecause of this, viewers in Berkshire County had little to no access to Massachusetts-specific news on their cable systems outside of the regional cable news channel, NECN, and complained to their government representatives, including the state's congressional delegation, to restore some kind of access to stations in their own state. The offices of Senators Elizabeth Warren and Ed Markey, along with Congressperson Richard E. Neal, pressured Charter and WWLP's owner, Nexstar, to restore the station's newscasts in some manner. This came at the end of February 2020, when Nexstar and Charter announced they would authorize a return of WWLP to Berkshire County systems, which was launched on March 31, 2020 on SD channels 14/16 (dependent on location), and 1204 in HD. Charter had also launched a local branch of their regional cable news channel, Spectrum News, early in 2020, in order to address the issues brought up by Berkshire residents.\n\nNexstar provides the secondary feed to Spectrum for those systems, and it features only WWLP's local news programming and other local programming without any of the station's syndicated and NBC programming, nor WWLP's subchannels; during network and syndicated programming times, repeats of that programming, including WWLP newscasts, are seen instead.\n\nThe station's digital signal is multiplexed:\nWWLP discontinued regular programming on its analog signal, over UHF channel 22, on February 17, 2009, the original target date in which full-power television stations in the United States were to transition from analog to digital broadcasts under federal mandate (but was ordered by the FCC to continue transmitting emergency bulletins, local news broadcasts, and information on digital transition on its analog channel for an additional sixty days as part of the \"nightlighting\" service; the target date was moved to June 12). The station's digital signal remained on its pre-transition VHF channel 11, using PSIP to display the station's virtual channel as its former UHF analog channel 22.\n\nSyndicated programming on the station includes \"Jeopardy!\", \"Wheel of Fortune\", \"Dr. Phil\", \"Judge Judy\" and \"Hot Bench\". WWLP also serves as the Western Massachusetts affiliate for the New England Patriots' preseason television network, carrying the team's games not nationally broadcast.\n\nEver since its sign-on, WWLP has consistently had the most watched newscasts in the Pioneer Valley. This has been achieved (most of the time) by beating rival ABC affiliate WGGB-TV (channel 40) in the local Nielsen ratings since both stations went on-the-air. There have been some brief periods when WGGB-TV was on top and there have also been extended times where the stations were basically neck-and-neck with WWLP having a slight edge. However, WWLP consistently outpaced WGGB-TV after the Sinclair Broadcast Group acquired that station in 1998 with a sizable margin in this channel's favor for most shows.\n\nWhile operating as full-time satellites of WWLP, WRLP and WWOR/WJZB simulcasted local news from this station. However, when WRLP converted to a separate Independent channel in 1974, its own newscasts were established tailored toward the Northern Pioneer Valley as well as Brattleboro and Keene.\n\nAfter WGGB-TV recently became locally owned (bought by John J. Gormally who publishes the Business West magazine), there was a chance the ratings could change. However, as of the July 2008 sweeps period, WWLP continues its longtime dominance with WGGB-TV stabilizing to a strong second. Although low-powered CBS affiliate WSHM-LP established its own news department in October 2005, it initially did not compete on the same level as WWLP and WGGB-TV. However, its ratings grew substantially across the board during the May 2009 sweeps period to within decimal points of WGGB-TV in several key demographics.\n\nIn addition to their main studios, WWLP operates a Hampshire County Bureau on Main Street/MA 9/MA 10 in downtown Northampton as part of Thornes Market (location established in November 2010), and a Franklin County Bureau in Greenfield. NBC O&O WBTS-CD, along with NECN in Boston, share their resources with WWLP for news coverage of Eastern Massachusetts. In turn, WWLP does the same for events from western areas of the state. Although it operates its own weather radar at the transmitter site on Provin Mountain, it is not seen on-air or online. During weather segments, the station does feature live NOAA National Weather Service radar data from several regional sites presented on-screen in a system known as \"ESP: Live Doppler\" (with \"ESP\" meaning Exclusive Storm Prediction). The station uses the \"Tower V.4\" news music package from 615 Music. The station's anchors dually serve as field reporters outside of their anchoring assignments.\n\nOn January 8, 2012, WWLP became the second station in the Springfield/Holyoke market to broadcast local news in high definition. Rival station WGGB-TV was the first to broadcast in HD in September 2011. The April 2015 move of The CW to WWLP-DT2 saw the station launch a half-hour 10 p.m. newscast, competing with WGGB's Fox subchannel in the timeslot.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1812610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812610", "title": "Vættir", "text": "Vættir\n\nThe Vættir (Old Norse; singular Vættr) are spirits in Norse mythology. The term can be used to refer to the full cosmos of supernatural beings, including the Álfar (elves), Dvergar (dwarves), Jötnar (giants), and gods (the Æsir and Vanir). Vættir can also refer more specifically to Landvættir (nature spirits), Fjallvættir (mountain spirits), Sjóvættir (sea spirits), Skogvættir (forest spirits), Vatnavættir (guardians of the specific waters), or Húsvættir (house spirits).\n\nThe Old Norse term \"véttr/vættr\" and its English cognate \"wight\" are descended from Proto-Germanic \"*wihtiz\" (thing, creature), from Proto-Indo-European \"*wekti-\" (\"object, thing\"). Vættr and wight normally refer to supernatural 'being', especially landvættr (land spirit), but can refer to any creature. The Norwegian \"vette\" is used much in the same way as the Old Norse \"vættr\", as are the corresponding Swedish cognate \"vätte\" (dialect form vätter - Old Swedish vætter) and the Danish \"vætte\". A related form in the Slavic languages can be seen in Old Church Slavonic \"вєшть\", (veštĭ), meaning thing, matter, or subject.\n\nLandvættir (nature spirits) are chthonic guardians of specific grounds, such as wild places or farms. When Vikings approached land, they reportedly removed their carved dragon heads from the bows of their longships, so as not to frighten and thus provoke the \"landvættir\" to attack, thereby incur bad luck from them. Icelandic culture continues to celebrate the supernatural protection over the island, and four \"landvættr\" can still be seen in the Icelandic coat-of-arms: a troll-bull, troll-eagle, dragon, and handsome giant. The troll-animals are actually Jötunn who shape shifted into the form (and mentality) of an animal, and such animals are supernaturally strong.\n\nHúsvættir is a collective term for keepers of the household, like the English brownie and the Swedish \"tomte\". The \"tomte\" or \"nisse\" is a solitary vätte, living on the farmstead. He is usually benevolent and helpful, which can not be said about an innately mischievous \"illvätte\". However, a \"nisse\" can cause a lot of damage if he is displeased or angry, including killing of livestock or causing serious accidents.\nScandinavian folklore features a class of beings similar to the Old Norse \"landvættir\". They are known by many names, although the most common are \"vättar\" in southern Sweden (singular: vätte), \"vittra\" in northern Sweden and \"huldrefolk\" in Norway (although the singular \"vittra\" and \"huldra\", respectively, refer to a solitary and quite different being).\n\nDuring the 19th century, Peter Christen Asbjørnsen and Jørgen Moe compiled Norwegian folk tales. These stories often reflected the animistic 'folk belief' that preserved earlier elements deriving from the Viking Age but strongly influenced by the medieval Biblical cosmology. Prominent are stories that reflect later views of the Vættir, usually called the Huldrefolk (from Old Norse Huldufólk), meaning 'concealed people' and referring to their other worldliness or their power of invisibility.\n\nThe English surname 'Wightman' retains the meaning of the word 'wight' and could be transliterated as 'Elf-friend'.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1812615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812615", "title": "Nine Muses", "text": "Nine Muses\n\nNine Muses may refer to:\n"}
{"id": "1812619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812619", "title": "Littleport railway station", "text": "Littleport railway station\n\nLittleport railway station is on the Fen line in the east of England, serving the village of Littleport, Cambridgeshire. It is measured from London Liverpool Street and is situated between and stations. Its three-letter station code is LTP.\n\nThe station and most trains calling are operated by Great Northern (with service to and from ), with some additional peak services being operated by Greater Anglia (to and from London Liverpool Street).\n\nOutside peak hours, there is one train per hour in each direction between London King's Cross and . These services typically use Class 387 or Class 365 electrical multiple units.\nThe limited Abellio Greater Anglia services that call here typically use Class 379s \n"}
{"id": "1812624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812624", "title": "Ronaldsay", "text": "Ronaldsay\n\nTwo of the Orkney Islands in the British Isles are named Ronaldsay:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1812634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812634", "title": "Waterbeach railway station", "text": "Waterbeach railway station\n\nWaterbeach railway station is on the Fen line in the east of England, serving the village of Waterbeach, Cambridgeshire. It is measured from London Liverpool Street and from ; it is situated between and stations. Its three-letter station code is WBC.\n\nThe station and most trains calling are operated by Great Northern, with limited peak services being operated by Greater Anglia.\n\nWaterbeach station is unstaffed, and has only basic waiting shelters on each of the two platforms. All the station buildings have been demolished. The platforms are staggered on each side of a half barrier level crossing. Until electrification and the automation of the crossing, the platforms were located opposite each other.\n\nBefore electrification, British Rail services often did not stop at Waterbeach; or if they did, stops would be unofficial. However, since electrification, virtually all King's Lynn/Ely - Cambridge/London services have stopped there (the present timetable shows only three Monday - Friday in both directions not stopping there) passenger numbers surged, with people all across the area north of Cambridge in South Cambridgeshire using it as their primary station. As a result, passenger numbers are nearly as high as Downham Market, and the station sees a lot of parking problems.\n\nPlans to develop a New Town of 8,000 to 9,000 homes on the former Waterbeach Barracks site have been outlined by South Cambridgeshire District Council. As part of the proposal, there are plans to relocate the station to a new site and extend the platforms to accommodate 12 car trains.\n\nWaterbeach is served by two train operating companies, Great Northern and Greater Anglia, and therefore has service to different London terminals.\n\nGreat Northern serves Waterbeach on its \"Cambridge Cruiser\" services inbound to London King's Cross and outbound to King's Lynn. Services are usually operated by Class 387s or, on occasion, Class 365s.\n\nInbound trains call at Cambridge North and Cambridge, then run non-stop to King's Cross. During off-peak hours there is service every hour with supplementary trains every 30 minutes during peak hours, taking 58 minutes to arrive at King's Cross at an average of .\n\nOutbound trains to King's Lynn operate every hour during off-peak times with trains every 30 minutes during peak hours. Trains call at all stations and take 42 minutes to arrive at King's Lynn, operating at an average of .\n\nGreater Anglia also provides peak services with trains running to Liverpool Street station in London and north to Ely and King's Lynn. These are operated by Class 379s.\n\n"}
{"id": "1812639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812639", "title": "New Serbia (historical province)", "text": "New Serbia (historical province)\n\nNew Serbia, or Novoserbia (, , or , ; , , or , ; / , or / ; Slavo-Serbian: Нова Сербія, \"Nova Serbiya\", or Ново-Сербія, \"Novo-Serbiya\"; ), was a military frontier of Imperial Russia from 1752 to 1764 subordinated directly to the Senat and Military Collegium. The founder of New Serbia was Jovan Horvat.\n\nIt was mostly located in the territory of present-day Kirovohrad Oblast of Ukraine, although some of its parts were located in the territory of present-day Cherkasy Oblast, Poltava Oblast and Dnipropetrovsk Oblast. The administrative centre of New Serbia was Novomirgorod (literally \"New Mirgorod\"), which is now Novomyrhorod, Ukraine.\n\nThe region was named after Serbs, who migrated in 1752 to the Russian Empire from the Military Frontier of the Habsburg Monarchy. Russian authorities gave these Serbian settlers a land, which thus acquired its name, New Serbia soon after the War of the Austrian Succession. As the Pannonian Frontier, New Serbia was also organized into military province located on the Russian-Polish border and on the land of Buhogard palanka, Zaporizhian Sich. The purpose of the polity was protection of southern borders of the Russian empire as well as participation in Russian military operations near that region. Commandant of New Serbia was Jovan Horvat who vouched for his subordinates the Austrian Grenz infantry.\n\nBefore the formation of New Serbia, its territory was mostly populated by Ukrainians and included 3,710 houses of settlers from the Hetmanate, Slobozhanshchina and Zaporizhia, 643 houses of native inhabitants and 195 houses of Ukrainian settlers from Poland and Moldavia. When New Serbia was formed, the Russian senate ordered that all these settlers, except native inhabitants, must return to the places where they had previously lived.\n\nAfter the formation of New Serbia, its initial new settlers were Serbs, but also many Moldavians and other Romanians (\"\" from Transylvania), Ukrainians, Bulgarians and others settled in the area.\n\nSome of the original Ukrainian settlers who left the territory of New Serbia settled in the southern regions of modern-day Ukraine. In 1745, before the formation of New Serbia, its territory was populated by 9,660 inhabitants, while in 1754, the number of inhabitants was 3,989.\n\nBecause of the large number of Moldavian settlers, the largest ethnic group in the province in 1757 were not Serbs, but Moldavians. In 1757, the population of New Serbia numbered 5,482 inhabitants, including:\n\nIn their new home, Serbs established new places, and consequently gave them same names such as the names of the places in their old home in the Pannonian Plain (in modern-day Serbia, Croatia, Romania and Hungary). Serbs also changed names of some older settlements, giving them Serb names. Of the 41 settlements that existed in New Serbia, 26 were founded before arrival of the Serbs.\n\nNotes:\n\nPlaces in New Serbia whose names can be also found in the territory of the Pannonian Plain (mostly in Vojvodina and Pomorišje) include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1812640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812640", "title": "Odžaci", "text": "Odžaci\n\nOdžaci (, ) is a town and municipality located in the West Bačka District of the autonomous province of Vojvodina, Serbia. The town of Odžaci has a population of 8,795 people, while the population of the municipality of Odžaci is 30,196 people (2011 census).\n\nThe name \"Odžaci\" / Оџаци means \"chimneys\" in Serbian. Formerly, the settlement was also known as \"Odžak\" / Оџак (\"chimney\"). The Slavic/Serbian word \"odžak\" (or plural \"odžaci\") is a modification of the Turkish word \"Ocak\" (bearing the same pronunciation), meaning \"fireplace\".\n\nIn Croatian, the town is also known as \"Odžaci\", in Hungarian as \"Hódság\", and in German as \"Hodschag\".\n\nThe old Hungarian name of the settlement was \"Kéménd\", first mentioned in 1522, and meaning \"with chimney\". Derived from the aforementioned Serbian word \"Odžak\" was the new Hungarian name \"Hódság\" (also later called \"Hódsági Járás\" (Hódsági district)), as well as the German name \"Hodschag\".\n\nMunicipality of Odžaci is located in the west part of Bačka, on the left coast of the river Danube in length of 9.5 km.\nThe territory belongs to the West-Bačka district, AP Vojvodina, Republic of Serbia. It is surrounded by the municipalities of Apatin, Sombor, Kula, Vrbas, Bačka Palanka, Bač and on Danube is bordered with Republic of Croatia.\n\nThe territory of municipality of Odžaci covers an area of 41.115,89 hectares. It consists of 9 Cadastral municipalities: Odžaci, Bački Gračac, Bački Brestovac, Srpski Miletić, Bogojevo, Karavukovo, Deronje, Ratkovo and Lalić, which are at the same time settlements.\n\nBy size of the territory, municipality of Odžaci is one of the smallest municipalities in the scope of Vojvodina.\nThe municipality center, settlement Odžaci, is located in the middle of the municipality's territory, whereas the other settlements are radially staggered around the municipality's center.\n\nOdzaci municipality region is characterized by vast and wide plain land. The ground is below the sea level near the Danube whose great hydrological activity created numerous depressions and bogs. The area between Srpski Miletic and Bogojevo is made up of “slatina” or saline soil, and a certain number of protected plants have found their home on the solonetz soil. Because of its overall importance it is expected that the whole area will be proclaimed as protected.\n\nClimate in Odzaci municipality can be described as moderate-continental. The average annual temperature is 10.9 °C. The coldest month is January with -0.3 °C, while July is the warmest with 21.4 °C. The total insolation per year is 2014 hours. Warm springs and summers provide favorable conditions for sports and recreation, including water sports and many other outdoor activities.\n\nHydrological features of this region were created both by the activity of the Danube River and human work throughout the past and present. The part of the river that runs through Odzaci municipality is 10 km long and is its most valuable natural resource. Between the mighty Danube and a lowland forest, in the place where the river is bridged on its way towards Erdut in the neighboring Croatia, there are dozens of vacation homes. There is a small harbor with a number of river boats that can be used for sightseeing this beautiful area.\n\nFurther away from the Danube towards Bogojevo, a natural process of major flooding took place in the early twentieth century creating Strand Lake. Surrounded by tall poplars and sandy beaches, the lake is a local bathing resort and a picnic area. The formation of the lake is linked to the catastrophic flooding of 1926 when floodwater did not retreat. Smaller lakes surrounding Strand Lake do not have any affluents or offshoots that would provide clean water for swimming and recreational activities. Visitors have 2 ha of beach at their disposal.\n\nThe length of the canal network Danube-Tisa-Danube within municipal boundaries is 43 km. The canals are connected to the Danube and navigable, being especially suitable for vessels with a capacity of 10-20 passengers. Small boats allow far easier and quicker maneuvering, docking at various locations, and even relatively easy transfer over short distances, or participation in various sports and recreational events. The water of the canal network is significantly purer compared to other parts of Backa.\n\nThe wetland area called Bogojevacki Rit comprises a number of marshes, lakes and canals. One of the most beautiful is Holzer bog, surrounded by reeds, poplars and willows, a habitat of harmony and tranquility for its wealth of biodiversity. Bogojevački Rit is suitable for recreational activities, ecology and photography classes.\n\nNatural unit called Kamariste, which heavily relies on the Danube, provides a hunting ground of the same name. The habitat is favourable to deer and wild boar as well as many types of small game. The Hunting Lodge, famous for its distinctive architecture, is always at service to individuals interested in the natural resources of the area. Provala Lake, The Ziva Rivulet, Golic Islet and giant oak trees are just some of the natural features of Kamariste.\n\nBranched canal network of the Danube-Tisa-Danube Chnanel, approximately 40 km long, is an indispensable part of the hydrological system of Odzaci municipality. Calm water sailing and popular fishing (carp, pike, catfish, perch, carp, tench, etc.) reveal the true picture of natural resources of Odzaci municipality.\n\nOdžaci was first time mentioned in the year 1557 or 1558. It was mentioned as a settlement in Bačka established by the Turks in time of war operations which took place in south Hungary. There are a lot of theories of the name origin, one of them is that it originates from the name of the Turkish military unit which stayed there, another theory is that the name originates from the Turkish word for chimney ( because of the chimneys which were protruding from the dugout of the first settlement), and also that Odžaci got its name by the Bosnian Odžaci from where 7 Serbian families arrived in the 16th century. In the 17th century Odžaci was deserted, the population was under pressure of impost, charged for military and war needs, and it mainly moved up north. During the 18th century the settlement was restored and then in Odžaci lived about one hundred Serbian and families of Šokci. The Austro-Hungarian authorities decided to colonize this area with German colonists, which resulted with forced emigration of the indigenous population (Serbs and Šokci).\n\nThe colonization of Odžaci with German inhabitants started in 1755 when a decision for settling 300 German families was brought. The Austro-Hungarian authorities gave the German colonists land for building houses, as much land as they could cultivate, seed etc. Besides that, they got status of free imperial citizens, so the serfs among them were freed from their obligations. The colonists who inhabited Odžaci were mainly from the German areas: Baden, Schwarzwald, Alsace, Lorene, Hessen etc. They were arriving in their new habitat through Danube, with ships known by the name \"Ulm boxes\" they were sailing through Vienna and Budapest to Apatin where they were discharged. The first colonists arrived in 1756; among them was baron Kotman, property owner.\n\nThe main occupation of the colonists was agriculture. With their arrival a massive cultivation of hemp started, although by some Turkish notebooks the cultivation of hemp was mentioned even when they ruled with these areas. The land in Odžaci and around was ideal for growing these plants, with the help of the river Mostonoga that was frequently casting and flooding the surrounding area. Also, Mostonoga was ideal for plunging the hemp. The production was initiated by baron Kotman who informed Vienna that the hemp succeeds well on the territory of the new colonist settlements. He gathered the hemp producers, he provided them with work means and obliged to purchase from them 5000 cubits of fabric annually. The production got more massive and Odžaci became one of the biggest centers for hemp production in Europe. In 1779 hemp fair was held for the first time and eventually became more significant. In 1907 a factory for cultivation of hemp and production of ropes was open by the members of a wealthy family Ertl (Franc and Johan) by the example of a similar factory in Segedin. The factory had initial 200 workers but it advanced rapidly and in 1929 reached a number of 800 employed. Eventually the production expanded so besides ropes they produced: carpets, and since 1933 wool and silk fabric.\n\nWith the immigration of the first colonists the vertiginous economic development of Odžaci which mostly relied on hemp production, was followed by social development of the area. In 1762 the first school on German language was established. The first church was built in 1764, but no trace was preserved. In 1818 a celebration was held with regard to laying the foundations of a new church which was finished in 1821. In 1813 Odžaci got the privilege to hold a weekly fair and two yearly trade fairs and it gained status of a marketplace. In 1871 the District Court was established, in 1879 the Property Registration Office, in 1884 the Office of Prince (First prince of Odžaci was Jozef Visi). The first printing office was established in 1887. In Odžaci in that period worked two money bureaus: Odžaci savings bank and Odžaci mutual aid cash, and in 1897 the IRS was established. In 1895 the construction of the railway Novi Sad-Baja which traverses Odžaci, was finished and in the same year the first train passed. In 1899 within the monastery in Odžaci, the first kinder garden was built and later was moved in a new modern building built by the owner of Hemp and cordage factory, Johan Ertl. In 1906 the firm \"Ertl & Shverer\" ( also partly owned by the family Ertl) opened the first power station for their mill needs and that brought to electrification of the area. In 1911 a fund for building secondary schools was founded and 70. 000 crown was collected, but the school construction was postponed due to the World War I. In 1917 another 300.000 crown was collected and the school started working, primarily in the house of the family Kraus, and later in the house of the family Bruner so that could finally be moved in a new building designed by architect Jozef Shver.\n\nDuring World War I a military lazaretto was opened in Odžaci in the elementary school where the wounded people from the front were treated. In World War I 162 people of Odžaci were killed. After the liberation Odžaci became part of the Kingdom of SCS and later part of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia.\n\nIn 1920 Kulturbund, a German nationalist organization was founded. The organization was banned two times, first in 1924, and second during the January dictatorship. The first branch of Kulturbund was formed in Bačka in 1920 in Parabuć (Ratkovo). In 1930 the work of Kulurband was allowed. The action in Kulturbund was radicalized and national-socialistic ideas were accepted in the organization when Adolf Hitler started to govern in Germany. From year to year the number of members increased, especially after 1939 and the beginning of World War II. During the war the organization got stronger and became main organizer of the social life in German areas in Bačka, including Odžaci as well. It also organized the departure of young Germans to Wehrmacht and SS units. After the invasion of forces of the Third Reich on Yugoslavia, the territory of Bačka was occupied by the Hungarian army. During the occupation the Hungarian army and gendarmerie did a systematic persecution : Serbs, Jews, Gypsies and political opponents of all nationalities.\n\nThe liberation finally came on October 22, 1944. Odžaci was liberated by the brigades of Vojvodina together with a unit of the Red army. More serious battles with the Hungarian gendarmes were led by the Bačkopalanački unit on October 17 between Parabuć (Ratkovo) and Odžaci. On the day of liberation there was no resistance or reception for the liberators since the area was inhabited by Germans who mainly withdrawn together with the German army and left the country. The first convoy departed on October 9. A number of Germans stayed; they were interned in camps, and afterwards they left the country and moved mainly into Austria and Germany.\n\nAfter the liberation of these areas, the Battle of Batina started which was the biggest battle in this region where soldiers of the Red army and the brigades of Vojvodina commanded by the lieutenant Sreta Savić, managed to defeat German forces numbering 60,000 soldiers, crossed Danube and liberated Darda and Beli Manastir, which resulted with suppressing the German forces on the territory of Hungary.\nAfter the end of World War II the population in the less developed areas in Vojvodina was colonized so that the areas where German national minority lived could be populated. In municipality of Odžaci colonists from south Serbia settled and they were mainly from: Vranje, Leskovac, Pirot, Niš and Toplice district. In Karavukovo colonists from Vranjska kotlina and Gornja Pčinja settled, in Ratkovo from Toplice and vicinity of Leskovac, in Srpski Miletić from Jablanica, Vlasotinac and Suva Reka, in Deronje from vicinity of Pirot, and in Odžaci from vicinity of Pirot and Niš. In Bački Brestovac and Bački Gračac colonists from Bosnia and Lika settled.\n\nWith the liberation the number of population was constantly increasing. Soon a new school was opened, State high school, later known as High school \"Jovan Jovanović Zmaj\". After the war the industry in Odžaci was developing very fast. Odžaci became local and municipal center of west Bačka. The following industries were developed: food, textile, metal, chemical, construction and graphic industry. \"Cordage\" factory was nationalized and got a new name: \"Lola Ribar\". The work of the factory was expanded and modernized so in 1960 production of woven carpets, pvc flooring etc. was started.\n\nIn 1971 the processing of polypropylene for production of embroidery and foil was started, and in 1979 the factory expanded with the opening of a new section for production of yarn based on: polypropylene, polyester, polyacrylic and fibers. On October 10, 1955 the first textile Secondary Technical School of fiber was opened in Odžaci, at the instance of the jointed textile professions of Yugoslavia, which contributed for the further development of textile industry in the municipality. The cultural life of the municipality became richer and diverse.\n\nAside from the town of Odžaci, the municipality includes the following settlements:\n\nAccording to the last official census done in 2011, the municipality of Odžaci has 30,154 inhabitants.\n\nEthnically, the municipality is mixed, with 25,077 Serbs (83.16%) being the majority, followed by 1,188 Hungarians (3.94%), 1,035 Romani (3.43%), 835 Slovaks (2.77%) and others. Settlements with Serb ethnic majority are: Odžaci, Bački Brestovac, Bački Gračac, Deronje, Karavukovo, Ratkovo, and Srpski Miletić. The settlement with Hungarian ethnic majority is Bogojevo. Ethnically mixed settlement with relative Slovak majority is Lalić.\n\nThe ethnic composition of the municipality:\nThe textile industry, chemical industry and agricultural machine industry are developed in Odžaci.\n\nThe following table gives a preview of total number of registered people employed in legal entities per their core activity (as of 2018):\nThe annual International Multimedial Art Festival (IMAF) is held in Odžaci since 1998.\n\nThe first football team in Odžaci was founded in 1919 by the name \"Odžaci sport club\", and in 1928 a tennis club was founded which was one of the favorites in the tennis competitions then in the country. The tennis club had 5 tennis courts. Between the two wars the Falcon society part of Falcons Kingdom of Yugoslavia worked in Odžaci and a Falcon rally was held.\nOdžaci has two football clubs Tekstilac Ites and OFK Odžaci. Tekstilac is formed in 1919, and stadion of Tekstilac is named \"Ivo Lola Ribar\" as a Yugoslav hero. OFK Odžaci is formed in 1969 and named Trgovački then lately changed its name to OFK Odžaci. Odžaci also has a tennis club, basketball club KK Odžaci and karate club Mladost\n\n"}
{"id": "1812646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812646", "title": "North and South Foreland", "text": "North and South Foreland\n\nNorth Foreland (TR 39860 69616 ) and South Foreland (TR 35909 43307 ) are two chalk headlands on the Kent coast of southeast England. \n\nSee:\n"}
{"id": "1812648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812648", "title": "South Foreland", "text": "South Foreland\n\nSouth Foreland is a chalk headland on the Kent coast of southeast England. It presents a bold cliff to the sea, and commands views over the Strait of Dover. It is centred northeast of Dover and 15 miles south of North Foreland. It includes the closest point on the British mainland to the European continent at a distance of .\n\nThis proximity gives it military significance and during the Second World War its coastal battery was built and a radar station. Lying between the busy Port of Dover and the remote and hazardous Goodwin Sands sandbank, its two lighthouses were important for navigation before their disuse. Much of the area is now owned by the National Trust and is open to the public; it is traversed by the Saxon Shore Way, the Kent coastal walk.\n\nTwo lighthouses are on South Foreland: the lower light disused since 1910 and the upper light, a National Trust asset, disused since 1988.\n\nSouth Foreland marks the south-western limit of St Margaret's Bay (named after the village of St Margaret's at Cliffe). It is the geological counterpart of Cap Blanc Nez ( cape white nose), at the northern extremity of the Boulonnais in the French \"département\" of Pas-de-Calais. The two are the landward ends of the fiercely cleft Strait of Dover land bridge and their chalk geological stratum dictates the route of the Channel Tunnel. Geologists have theorised that much of the erosion was river erosion from the extended Rhine and numerous southern North Sea channels discharging through the Strait of Dover.\n\nDuring the Second World War South Foreland carried a Chain Home radar station similar to the still-extant towers at Swingate, east of Dover.\n\nThis was a coastal artillery battery with four Mark X 9.2 inch guns and a network of bunkers and ammunition stores, northeast of the lighthouse on the road to St Margaret's. The site was cleared after World War II leaving traces, heavily since overgrown. The heavily reinforced positions were hewn into the cliff in the three months from 28 December 1940. The first gun arrived on 25 March 1941. No. 4 gun was test fired on 28 November 1941. On 12 February 1942, the light battleships \"Gneisenau\", \"Scharnhorst\" and the heavy cruiser \"Prinz Eugen\" attempted the Channel Dash from Brest, France to Germany. The Foreland's K-band radar started to track the ships of the Brest Group coming up the Channel towards Cap Gris Nez. At 12:19, the first salvo was fired; maximum visibility was five miles, there was no observation of fall of shot by sight. The blips of the radar showed zig-zagging of the ships prompting full battery salvo firing. 33 rounds were fired at the German ships, which were moving out of range at . The Germans revealed that all had missed.\n\nBy the end of the war the four guns had fired 2,248 shells most in the months before and after the Normandy landings. 28 enemy ships were sunk by the coastal batteries around Dover, which loss deterred use of the Channel dash by the German surface fleet.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1812649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812649", "title": "North Foreland", "text": "North Foreland\n\nNorth Foreland is a chalk headland on the Kent coast of southeast England.\n\nNorth Foreland forms the eastern end of the Isle of Thanet. It presents a bold cliff to the sea, and commands views over the southern North Sea.\n\nThere was probably some sort of a beacon at an earlier period but the first distinct intimation concerning a lighthouse on the North Foreland is in the year 1636 when Charles I by letters-patent granted to Sir John Meldrum licence to continue and renew the lighthouses erected on the North and South Forelands.\n\nIt seems that the lighthouse erected by Sir John consisted merely of a house built with timber lath and plaster on the top of which a light was kept in a large glass lantern for the purpose of directing ships in their course. This house was burnt down by accident in the year 1683 after which for some years use was made of a sort of beacon on which a light was hoisted. But near the end of the same century a strong octagonal structure of flint was erected on the top of which was an iron grate quite open to the air in which a good fire of coals was kept blazing at night. In 1719 ownership of both the North and South Foreland lights passed by will to the Trustees of Greenwich Hospital.\n\nAbout the year 1732 the top of this lighthouse was covered with a sort of lantern with large sash windows and the fire was kept bright by bellows with which the attendants blew throughout the night. This contrivance is said to have been for the purpose of saving coals but it would seem more probable that it was in order to preserve the fire from being extinguished by rain. However the plan did not work well and great injury resulted to navigation as many vessels were lost on the sands from not seeing the light and so little was it visible at sea that mariners asserted that they had often in hazy weather seen the Foreland before they could discover the light. They added that before the lantern was placed there and when the fire was kept in the open air the wind kept the fire in a constant blaze which was seen in the air far above the lighthouse. Complaints of this sort were so loud and frequent that the governors of Greenwich Hospital sent Sir John Thomson to examine and make arrangements on the subject. He ordered the lantern to be taken away and things to be restored to nearly their former state the light to continue burning all the night until daylight.\n\nTowards the end of the 18th century the North Foreland Lighthouse underwent some considerable alterations and repairs. In 1792, under the supervision of John Yenn (Surveyor to Greenwich Hospital), two stories of brick were built on the original structure which raised it to the height of 100 feet including the lantern room at the top in which the lights were kept. (To prevent accidents from fire the lantern room was coated with copper as was also the gallery around it; this gallery used to be much frequented by the visitors to Margate on account of the extensive views.) At the same time oil lamps were installed in the tower, together with a new optical system designed by Thomas Rogers (who had previously installed a similar system in the lower lighthouse at Portland): it consisted of two rows of nine lamps and reflectors arranged in a convex curve, placed behind a row of solid glass convex lenses which were incorporated within the glazing around the lantern room.\n\nIn 1832 Trinity House purchased the North and South Foreland lighthouses from Greenwich Hospital and two years later the lenses were removed. In 1860 under the supervision of engineer Henry Norris a new multi-wick oil burner was installed together with a large (first-order) fixed catadioptric optic manufactured by Sautter & Co. of Paris, replacing the previous catoptric apparatus of 18 Argand lamps & reflectors. At the same time the two keepers cottages added. These works coincided with the successful experiments carried out in 1857–60 at the South Foreland lighthouse by Professor Frederick Hale Holmes with an alternating current electric arc light which were the subject of a lecture by Michael Faraday at the Royal Institution and paved the way for the construction a decade later of the world's first lighthouse designed for such a light, Souter Lighthouse.\nIn June 1860 a red sector was added to the light, which shone northwards 'to enable vessels at night to keep to the eastward of Margate Sand'. In 1880 the light characteristic was changed from fixed to occulting (being eclipsed for five seconds every half minute); In 1884 the lighthouse was restored and improved: the interior of the tower (which had previously contained rooms on several storeys) was completely gutted and an inner circular brick wall was constructed, which supported a new cantilevered stone staircase leading from ground level to the service room, immediately below the lantern. In 1890 a new lantern room was added.\n\nAn improved incandescent oil lamp was installed in the tower in 1905. When the lamp was electrified in 1930 it was given its current flashing characteristic.\n\nDuring the Second World War a number of radar stations were set up by German forces in France and the Netherlands to detect allied aircraft flying across the English Channel and a chain of top secret radar jamming stations were set up by British scientists along the south east coast of Britain. An array of transmitters was set out around the gallery of the lighthouse controlled by equipment in the lower lantern as part of this chain.\nNorth Foreland lighthouse was the last manned lighthouse in the UK but was automated in a ceremony presided over by the Duke of Edinburgh in 1998. Dermot Cronin and Tony Homewood were the last Principal Lighthouse Keepers that manned North Foreland lighthouse.\n\nThe lighthouse remains operational and is monitored and controlled by Trinity House from its Planning Centre at Harwich. The 1860 optic is still in use with a modern light source displaying a group-flashing characteristic.\n\nA painting of the lighthouse by Elwin Hawthorne is in the Russell-Cotes Art Gallery & Museum.\n\nCurrently, the cottages around the lighthouse can be rented as holiday accommodation.\n\nTwo naval battles of the Anglo-Dutch Wars are called the Battle of the North Foreland after the cape:\n\nA coastal radio station was established adjacent to the light house in 1901. Its call sign was 'GNF'. The transmitting function was later moved about a mile inland, although the medium wave receiving aerial remained operational until closure in 1991.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1812654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812654", "title": "Transmissions from Eville", "text": "Transmissions from Eville\n\nTransmissions from Eville (1994) is the first album by Acumen Nation. The original version was released under the name Acumen on Robot Records in 1994. The record was later re-released, in a significantly altered form, by Fifth Colvmn Records on February 14, 1995, then re-released again by Conscience Records on May 12, 1998.\n\n\"Ultraviolent\" is not on the track listing. \"Frozen Shallow\" later appears on the Iron Lung Corp. album \"Big Shiny Spears\".\n\n\nTracks 12-14 are available only on the Conscience Records re-release. \"Ultraviolent\" is taken from the original demo. \"The Worms\" is misspelled as \"The Words\" on the re-release.\n\nAll songs written and arranged by Jason Novak, except tracks 4 & 6, music co-written by Ethan Novak.\n\n"}
{"id": "1812658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812658", "title": "WOAI-TV", "text": "WOAI-TV\n\nWOAI-TV, virtual channel 4 (UHF digital channel 28), is an NBC-affiliated television station licensed to San Antonio, Texas, United States. The station is owned by the Sinclair Broadcast Group, as part of a duopoly with Fox affiliate KABB (channel 29, also licensed to San Antonio); Sinclair also operates Kerrville-licensed CW affiliate KMYS (channel 35) under joint sales and shared services agreements (JSA/SSA) with owner Deerfield Media. The three stations share studios between Babcock Road and Sovereign Drive (off Loop 410) in northwest San Antonio; WOAI-TV's transmitter is located off of Route 181 in northwest Wilson County (northeast of Elmendorf).\n\nOn cable, the station is available on Charter Spectrum channel 3, Grande Communications channel 11, and AT&T U-verse channel 4, and in high definition on Spectrum digital channel 1203, Grande channel 804, and U-verse channel 1004.\n\nThe station first signed on the air on December 11, 1949 as WOAI-TV. It was the first television station in the San Antonio market, owned by Southland Industries along with AM 1200 WOAI. WOAI-TV and WOAI radio are among the few broadcast stations located west of the Mississippi River that have a call sign beginning with \"W.\" In the early days of broadcasting, most Central Time Zone states were in the \"W\" territory. In 1923, the dividing line was changed to the Mississippi River. Since WOAI Radio was already on the air, it kept its W call letters and when it put a TV station on the air, it shared that call sign. \n\nWOAI-TV has been an NBC affiliate since its sign-on, due to WOAI (AM)'s longtime affiliation with the NBC Red Network. But at first, it also carried programming from the three other major networks of the time: CBS, ABC and DuMont. WOAI lost the CBS and DuMont affiliations to KEYL (channel 5, now KENS) when that station signed on in February 1950. The two stations continued to share ABC programming until KONO-TV (channel 12, now KSAT-TV) signed on in January 1957.\n\nIn 1965, WOAI-AM-TV were bought by Crosley Broadcasting, which changed its name to Avco Broadcasting in 1968. Avco began to exit from broadcasting in 1974. WOAI-TV was one of the first Crosley-owned television stations to end up being sold. In 1974, it was acquired by United Television (at the time, a subsidiary of 20th Century Fox). On December 11, 1974, coinciding with the station's 25th anniversary, WOAI-TV changed its call letters to KMOL-TV. (The change was brought on by an FCC regulation in place at that time that prohibited TV and radio stations in the same market, but with different owners from sharing the same call letters.) At that time, the AM station, which retained the WOAI call sign, became one of the founding stations of its current owner, iHeartMedia (then known as Clear Channel Communications). Chris-Craft Industries gained majority ownership of United in 1981, merging the group with BHC Communications (the owners of KCOP in Los Angeles and KPTV in Portland, Oregon).\n\nWhen KRRT (channel 35, now KMYS) dropped its affiliation with the United Paramount Network (UPN) to join The WB in January 1998, KMOL began carrying UPN programming during the overnight hours. At the time, Chris-Craft had owned a 50% interest in UPN. The UPN affiliation later moved to Fredericksburg-licensed KBEJ (channel 2, now MyNetworkTV affiliate KCWX), which signed on the air in August 2000.\n\nOn August 12, 2000, Chris-Craft Industries sold its television stations to the Fox Television Stations subsidiary of News Corporation for $5.5 billion. The deal was finalized on July 31, 2001. News Corporation then traded KMOL and sister station KTVX in Salt Lake City to Clear Channel in exchange for WFTC in Minneapolis. This tradeoff protected future sister station KABB (channel 29) from losing its Fox affiliation. Not only did the purchase reunite KMOL-TV with WOAI Radio, but channel 4 also became the television flagship of the San Antonio-based conglomerate. Speculation immediately began that Clear Channel would restore the heritage WOAI-TV call sign to channel 4. This officially occurred on September 1, 2002. Although Clear Channel's San Antonio radio cluster is located in Northwest San Antonio, off I-10, WOAI-TV remained based in its downtown studios on Navarro Street.\nOn November 16, 2006, after being bought by private equity firms, Clear Channel announced that it would sell all of its television stations. On April 20, 2007, Clear Channel sold its entire television group to Providence Equity Partners-controlled holding company Newport Television; the group deal was finalized on March 14, 2008. However, channel 4 continued a news partnership with its former radio sister, and the two stations continued to share a website for two years afterward.\n\nIn May 2008, Newport Television agreed to sell WOAI-TV and five other stations to High Plains Broadcasting because of ownership conflicts. Providence Equity Partners also holds a 19% ownership stake in Univision Communications, the owner of Univision owned-and-operated station KWEX-TV (channel 41) and Telefutura station KNIC-TV (channel 17). In the case of San Antonio, it would have given Providence Equity control of three stations in the market. Even without KNIC in the picture, both WOAI and KWEX were among the four highest-rated stations in the San Antonio market at the time of the Clear Channel sale (and remain so today). The FCC normally does not allow two of the four highest-rated stations to be owned by a single entity. The sale was finalized on September 15, 2008. However, the sale to High Plains Broadcasting was in name only. Newport continued to operate the station under a shared services agreement, with High Plains only holding the FCC assets of the station (including the license). This effectively made High Plains Broadcasting a front company for Newport Television in a relationship similar to that between Mission Broadcasting and Nexstar Broadcasting Group as well as between Cunningham Broadcasting (and later Deerfield Media) and the Sinclair Broadcast Group. On December 17, 2007, WOAI debuted a slightly altered logo.\n\nOn July 19, 2012, Newport Television/High Plains Broadcasting reached a deal to sell 22 of the company's 27 stations to Sinclair, Nexstar and Cox Media Group. WOAI-TV was among the six that would be sold to Sinclair, making it a sister station to Fox affiliate KABB (channel 29) and CW affiliate KMYS (channel 35). Since FCC duopoly regulations forbid common ownership of more than two full-power stations in a single market from being under the same ownership, Sinclair spun off KMYS to Deerfield Media; however, Sinclair retained control of KMYS through a shared services agreement. In addition, while FCC rules disallow ownership of two of the four highest-rated stations in the same market, which normally precludes duopolies involving two \"Big Four\" network affiliates, Sinclair cited in its FCC purchase application that WOAI ranked as the fourth highest-rated station (behind KWEX-DT) and KABB the fifth-rated station in the San Antonio market in total day viewership. The Sinclair and Deerfield Media deals were consummated on December 3, 2012. KTVX, which had been a sister station to WOAI-TV since United Television acquired both stations in 1975, was sold to Nexstar, resulting in the two stations coming under entirely separate ownership and management for the first time in over 37 years.\n\nThe operations of KABB and KMYS initially remained separate from WOAI-TV, with the two stations retaining competing news operations. On the morning on March 19, 2013, a fire started in offices located on the second floor of WOAI-TV's studios, which resulted in the evacuation of the station's staff and forcing channel 4 to carry the papal inauguration of Pope Francis from Vatican City for about six hours; with WOAI-TV unable to broadcast from the building, the station used a makeshift set in a nearby parking lot for that day's late afternoon newscasts, before temporarily moving to KABB/KMYS' facility on Babcock Road. Station and San Antonio Fire Department representatives cited an electrical short for causing the blaze. WOAI-TV moved back to the downtown facility on March 24. In October 2013, the \"San Antonio Express-News\" reported that Sinclair planned to move WOAI-TV's sales, promotions and executive offices from its Navarro Street studios to a new building adjacent to KABB and KMYS' shared facility; the transition of WOAI-TV employees to the KABB/KMYS complex was finalized in the summer of 2014, with the completion of a shared newsroom on the second floor of the building that accommodates both WOAI-TV and KABB's respective news staffs.\n\nThe station's digital signal is multiplexed:\n\nWOAI moved from RF channel 48 to RF channel 28 on June 21, 2019.\n\nWOAI-TV discontinued regular programming on its analog signal, over VHF channel 4, on June 12, 2009, the official date in which full-power television stations in the United States transitioned from analog to digital broadcasts under federal mandate. The station moved its digital signal from its pre-transition UHF channel 58, which was among the high band UHF channels (52-69) that were removed from broadcasting use as a result of the transition, to UHF channel 48, using PSIP to display the station's virtual channel as its former VHF analog channel 4.\n\nWOAI-TV carries the entire NBC programming schedule. However, the station airs several of the network's programs out of pattern: the fourth hour of \"Today\" airs on a one-hour delay from 11:00 a.m. to noon, \"Late Night With Seth Meyers\" airs on a half-hour delay (starting at 12:07 a.m.), and \"A Little Late with Lilly Singh\" airs on a one-hour delay (starting at 1:37 a.m.); syndicated programs (as well as \"San Antonio Living\") fill those programs' network-designated timeslots. Syndicated programs broadcast on WOAI-TV include \"Judge Judy\", \"The Dr. Oz Show\" and \"Access Hollywood\" among others.\n\nThe station also produces the hour-long daytime talk show \"San Antonio Living\", which airs weekday mornings at 10:00 a.m. On August 22, 2010, WOAI-TV announced that it would replace \"Live! with Regis and Kelly\" with \"Rachael Ray\" on September 13 in an effort to boost ratings for \"San Antonio Living\". The announcement sparked controversy with many loyal viewers as \"Live\" had connections with San Antonio as original co-host Regis Philbin was a fan of the San Antonio Spurs NBA franchise and San Antonio was showcased during the Fiesta event in a 1991 episode. What is now \"Live with Kelly and Ryan\" returned to the market on KSAT in September 2011.\n\nThe station has aired any San Antonio Spurs games through NBC's broadcast rights with the NBA from 1990 to 2002. This includes the team's 1999 NBA Finals championship victory.\n\nWOAI-TV presently broadcasts 27 hours, 25 minutes of locally produced newscasts each week (with 5 hours, 5 minutes each weekday and one hour each on Saturdays and Sundays); in addition, the station produces the half-hour sports highlight program \"Sports Sunday\", which airs Sundays at 10:30 p.m. The station is branded as \"News 4 San Antonio\", with the largest TV news operation in the city.\n\nOn September 16, 2009, WOAI-TV became the third television station in the San Antonio market (after KSAT and KENS) to begin broadcasting its local newscasts in high definition; with the change, the station introduced a new set for its newscasts as well as a modified version of its \"big 4\" logo (which was altered to a red, white and black color scheme). It was the first (and presently, the only) television station in the market to provide news video from the field in true high definition, as WOAI upgraded its ENG vehicles, satellite truck, studio and field cameras and other equipment in order to broadcast news footage from the field in high definition, in addition to segments broadcast from the main studio.\n\nOn September 6, 2010, WOAI-TV expanded its 6:00 p.m. newscast to one hour, with the addition of a half-hour extension at 6:30 p.m. In 2011, the station's chief meteorologist, John Gerard (who announced his departure from WOAI in April 2014, to become the weekend meteorologist at CBS owned-and-operated station WFOR-TV in Miami), developed the \"4-Zone Forecast\"—a zonal forecast for four specific sub-regions of south Texas, compared to the broader regional forecasts for the area that are used by other local stations. In February 2012, WOAI introduced a storm chasing vehicle provided by Ancira, which is used during severe weather situations affecting south Texas. On January 25, 2016, WOAI debuted a half-hour noon newscast, which has now extended to a full hour.\n\n"}
{"id": "1812667", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812667", "title": "Downham Market railway station", "text": "Downham Market railway station\n\nDownham Market railway station is on the Fen line in the east of England, serving the town of Downham Market, Norfolk. It is measured from London Liverpool Street and is situated between and stations. Its three-letter station code is DOW.\n\nThe station and most trains calling are operated by Great Northern (with service to and from ), with some additional peak services being operated by Greater Anglia (to and from London Liverpool Street).\n\nThe station building of 1846, built of carrstone with pale brick dressings, is a Grade II listed building.\n\nThe Lynn & Ely Railway Bill received the Royal Assent on 30 June 1845. Work started on the line in 1846 and the line and its stations were opened on 27 October 1846. Downham Station opened with the line and was situated south of Stow Station and was a temporary end of the line. The line was completed to Ely in 1847. On New Year's Day Downham station ceased to be a temporary terminus when the line was opened through to Denver Road Gate.\n\nThe new line connected King's Lynn and its harbour with Ely and trains to London.\n\nThe wooden signal box, built for the Great Eastern Railway in 1881, was listed Grade II in 2013.\n\nIn early 2017, the station was redecorated to commemorate Network SouthEast, the British Rail division that operated services across England's south east 30 years previously. With assistance from the Railway Heritage Trust, paintwork and signage has been returned to a style that mimics that of the late 1980s.\n\nOutside of peak hours there is one train per hour between London King's Cross and King's Lynn. These services typically use Class 387 electric multiple units.\n\nThe station is also served by the Greater Anglia service between King's Lynn and London Liverpool Street service using Class 317 or Class 379 electric multiple units as part of its extended peak service timetable.\n\nOn 10 August 2009 Network Rail submitted a planning application for a new £1.5 million footbridge, describing the current foot crossing as 'one of the most dangerous in the country'. The plan was supported by then station operator First Capital Connect, with an intended completion date of summer 2011. The initial application was withdrawn following consultation with local councils, English Heritage and the Railway Heritage Trust and a revised plan submitted in December 2009 following changes to improve the appearance of the bridge. However, this proposal was rejected by King's Lynn and West Norfolk Council in April 2010, citing the lack of accessibility for disabled passengers and the effect of the bridge on the Grade II listed station building.\n\nThe foot crossing has since been closed and passengers must now use the nearby road level crossing to switch between platforms.\n"}
{"id": "1812675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812675", "title": "Gateshead East and Washington West (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Gateshead East and Washington West (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nGateshead East and Washington West was a parliamentary constituency represented in the House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It elected a Member of Parliament (MP) by the first past the post electoral system.\n\nThe constituency was created in 1997 from Gateshead East and Houghton and Washington, and was replaced in 2010 by new constituencies of Gateshead and Washington and Sunderland West, while two wards were transferred to the Jarrow seat.\n\nThe Metropolitan Borough of Gateshead wards of Chowdene, Felling, High Fell, Leam, Low Fell, and Pelaw and Heworth, and the City of Sunderland wards of Washington South and Washington West.\n\n"}
{"id": "1812676", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812676", "title": "Houghton and Washington East (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Houghton and Washington East (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nHoughton and Washington East was, from 1997 until 2010, a constituency represented in the House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It elected one Member of Parliament (MP) by the first past the post system of election. A seat with similar boundaries, Houghton and Washington, existed from 1983 until 1997.\n\n1983–1997: The Metropolitan Borough of Sunderland wards of Eppleton, Hetton, Houghton, Shiney Row, Washington East, Washington North, Washington South, and Washington West.\n\n1997–2010: The City of Sunderland wards of Eppleton, Hetton, Houghton, Ryhope, Shiney Row, Washington East, and Washington North.\n\nHoughton and Washington East contained much of the City of Sunderland. The seat included the eastern half of the new town of Washington, and the older communities of Houghton-le-Spring, Hetton-le-Hole, Penshaw, Shiney Row, Ryhope, and Herrington.\n\nFollowing their review of parliamentary representation in Tyne and Wear, the Boundary Commission for England reduced the number of seats in the county from 13 to 12, taking effect at the 2010 general election. In particular, the constituencies in the City of Sunderland were reorganised: Washington is covered by the Washington and Sunderland West constituency, while the Houghton-le-Spring area lies within the Houghton and Sunderland South constituency.\n\n"}
{"id": "1812677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812677", "title": "Simone Angel", "text": "Simone Angel\n\nSimone Angel (born Simone Engeln, 25 December 1971) is a Dutch TV host.\n\nBorn in Woerden, Netherlands, Angel moved from there to London, UK, when she was 18. Here she was hired by MTV Europe, becoming the youngest VJ and, after working for nine years, she also became one of the longest serving VJs for MTV. Angel was the host of many different programmes broadcast from various parts of the world, and was also the host of the MTV programme \"Party Zone\", where she presented dance music videos.\n\nAngel released four singles, some in various versions. In the United Kingdom, Angel was signed to Bros/East 17 manager Tom Watkins' Atomic record label, alongside the band Nitro.\n\n\nAs well as hosting shows on MTV, Simone has also hosted various awards shows, such as the Webby Awards and some Extreme Sports Awards. She was also on the jury on the German TV show \"Popstars\". Angel and Andy Hunt, former professional football player, own the Belize resort, 'Jungle Dome'. Angel is also working with a charity through the Jaden Foundation, aimed at improving the education for the children of Belize.\n\nOn 8 December 2005, Angel and Hunt were married. They continue to run the Belize Jungle Dome and have two children together, named Lucas and Aidan.\n\n"}
{"id": "1812683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812683", "title": "Watlington railway station", "text": "Watlington railway station\n\nWatlington railway station is on the Fen line in the east of England, serving the village of Watlington, Norfolk. It is measured from London Liverpool Street and is situated between and stations. Its three-letter station code is WTG.\n\nThe station and most trains calling are operated by Great Northern (with service to and from ), with some additional peak services being operated by Abellio Greater Anglia (to and from London Liverpool Street).\n\nThe Bill for the Lynn and Ely Railway received Royal Assent on 30 June 1845. Work started on the line in 1846 and the line and its stations were opened on 27 October 1846. Watlington station opened with the line and was, as it is now, situated South of Lynn station (now King's Lynn). The station to the south was St Germain's station. The line ran from Ely to Downham, the eventual destination being Ely.\n\nWatlington station, from 1847 part of the East Anglian Railway, became part of the Great Eastern Railway in 1862, and was renamed Magdalen Road in 1875 (a name which, perhaps, better reflects its lonely rural location in the middle of the flatlands of the East Anglian Fens). From 1848 onwards, Watlington was a junction, as the line once branched off from there to Wisbech. The branch, along with Magdalen Road station, was closed in 1968.\n\nDue to local efforts, however, Magdalen Road station was reopened in 1975, and in 1989 returned to its original title of Watlington. The signal box at the station, in active use today, still bears a Network SouthEast sign with its post-1875 name. The current southbound platform, behind the signal box, dates from the early 1990s; the original station buildings on the southbound side have since been converted into a private residence. The original wooden waiting room on the northbound platform was replaced around the same time, though the original platform still survives as part of an extended platform.\n\nBefore electrification, services were normally operated by InterCity (latterly Network SouthEast) locomotive-hauled trains, normally pulling British Rail Mark 2b coaches (many services featured restaurant cars). The locomotives were usually Class 37 diesel-electrics, sometimes Class 31s or 47s. Off-peak links were often provided by Metro-Cammell diesel multiple units.\n\nThe station is mentioned by author Lisa St Aubin de Teran in a memoir as being the station closest to her Norfolk home - she reminisced about conversations with the train guard who was checking tickets, where she requested that the train stop at the station (for many years, most trains only called at the station if a passenger requested it, rather than it being a regular timetabled stop).\n\nThe station is served by Great Northern as part of their 'Fen Line' service from London King's Cross to King's Lynn. Outside peak hours the services run non-stop between London and Cambridge as part of the half-hourly \"Cambridge Cruiser\" service. These services are operated by Class 387 electrical multiple units, but they previously used Class 317 units (these are still used on peak-hour services operated by Abellio Greater Anglia into London Liverpool Street).\n\n"}
{"id": "1812684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812684", "title": "Jarrow (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Jarrow (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nJarrow is a constituency represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament since 2019 by Kate Osborne of the Labour Party.\n\nThe seat was created in the Redistribution of Seats Act 1885. The last Liberal to serve the seat lost his seat at the 1922 general election and the last Conservative to serve the seat held it from 1931-1935, since which it has been served by MPs from the Labour Party.\n\nSince 1935, just four people have served as MP for Jarrow; the first, Ellen Wilkinson, served as Labour's first Minister of Education during the first Attlee government. While the seat has been loyally Labour by comfortable margins since 1935, it has seen unusual swings a number of times; in the 1983 Conservative landslide, incumbent MP Don Dixon actually increased his majority; in the close 1992 election his majority fell somewhat despite the general swing to Labour; and in 2001 his successor Stephen Hepburn managed to increase his majority to 51.1% (incidentally the biggest any candidate has ever held in the seat).\n\n1885–1918: The Boroughs of Jarrow and South Shields, the Sessional Division of South Shields, and part of the parish of Heworth.\n\n1918–1950: The Borough of Jarrow, and the Urban Districts of Felling and Hebburn.\n\n1950–1955: The Borough of Jarrow, and the Urban Districts of Boldon, Felling, and Hebburn.\n\n1955–1983: The Borough of Jarrow, and the Urban Districts of Boldon and Hebburn.\n\n1983–1997: The Metropolitan Borough of South Tyneside wards of Bede, Biddick Hall, Boldon Colliery, Cleadon and East Boldon, Fellgate and Hedworth, Hebburn Quay, Hebburn South, Monkton, Primrose, and Whitburn and Marsden.\n\n1997–2010: The Metropolitan Borough of South Tyneside wards of Bede, Boldon Colliery, Cleadon and East Boldon, Fellgate and Hedworth, Hebburn Quay, Hebburn South, Monkton, Primrose, and Whitburn and Marsden, and the Metropolitan Borough of Gateshead ward of Wrekendyke.\n\n2010–present: The Metropolitan Borough of South Tyneside wards of Bede, Boldon Colliery, Cleadon and East Boldon, Fellgate and Hedworth, Hebburn North, Hebburn South, Monkton, and Primrose, and the Metropolitan Borough of Gateshead wards of Pelaw and Heworth, and Wardley and Leam Lane.\n\nFollowing boundary changes taking effect at the 2010 general election, the constituency consists of part of the metropolitan district of South Tyneside, including the settlements of Jarrow, Boldon, Cleadon and Hebburn, as well as two wards from the adjacent Metropolitan Borough of Gateshead, covering Pelaw and Wardley.\n\nIn 2005 \"The Guardian\" described the constituency as:\n\n = \"N/A\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1812685", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812685", "title": "Newcastle upon Tyne Central (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Newcastle upon Tyne Central (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nNewcastle upon Tyne Central is a constituency represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament since 2010 by Chi Onwurah from Labour, the former Head of Telecoms Technology at Ofcom. At the 2017 and 2019 general elections, the constituency beat Houghton and Sunderland South, which had declared first in 2010 and 2015 (as did its predecessor Sunderland South in the four preceding general elections), to be the first constituency to declare a result.\n\nParliament created this seat under the Representation of the People Act 1918 for the general election later that year. From its creation, the constituency has been represented by only members of the Labour and Conservative parties. Since 1987, the seat has been represented by Labour.\n\n1918–1950: The County Borough of Newcastle wards of All Saints, St John's, St Nicholas, Stephenson, and Westgate.\n\n1950–1983: The County Borough of Newcastle wards of Armstrong, Byker, St Anthony's, St Nicholas, and Stephenson, and the Rural District of Newcastle.\n\n1983–1997: The City of Newcastle wards of Blakelaw, Fenham, Jesmond, Kenton, Moorside, South Gosforth, and Wingrove.\n\n1997–2010: The City of Newcastle wards of Blakelaw, Fenham, Jesmond, Kenton, Moorside, Sandyford, South Gosforth, and Wingrove.\n\n2010–present: The City of Newcastle wards of Benwell and Scotswood, Blakelaw, Elswick, Fenham, Kenton, Westgate, West Gosforth, and Wingrove.\n\nThe constituency covers the central part of Newcastle upon Tyne, being one of three constituencies in the city. Between 1983 and 2010, the seat did not actually include the city's commercial centre, being instead part of the now-abolished Tyne Bridge constituency.\n\nThe constituency is mostly the urban city itself, which has seen end its once export-leading shipbuilding industry, its adult population has mostly a middle or low income, however with modern advanced engineering, learning, design, graphics, production company headquarters and tourism the city forms is a bellwether for the North East region's economy firmly in the British forefront of a determined return to increasing national output. In November 2012 total unemployment (based on the more up-to-date claimant statistics) placed the City of Newcastle in joint 17th place of 29 constituencies in the region, above, for example the City of Durham at the bottom of the list, with just 3.4% claimants whereas Newcastle had 6.0% claimants, identical to Sunderland Central.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1812686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812686", "title": "The Suicide Twins", "text": "The Suicide Twins\n\nThe Suicide Twins was a rock band, set up by Andy McCoy and Nasty Suicide (here credited as Nasty Superstar) after the break-up of Hanoi Rocks. The band managed to record only one album, \"Silver Missiles And Nightingales\". This was done with acoustic guitars, with the two sharing vocal duties along with the late René Berg. The band filmed a video for the single \"Sweet Pretending\" which features Nasty lip-synching as the song features Rene on lead vocals. The album was issued on CD by Castle Communications and is considered a classic by many. The song \"The Best Is Yet To Come\" was later covered by Samantha Fox. The album was actually recorded the same time as the EP's by the Cherry Bombz.\n"}
{"id": "1812687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812687", "title": "Newcastle upon Tyne East and Wallsend (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Newcastle upon Tyne East and Wallsend (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nNewcastle upon Tyne East and Wallsend was, from 1997 until 2010, a constituency represented in the House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It elected one Member of Parliament (MP) by the first past the post system of election.\n\nThe constituency was created in 1997 by the merger of the former seats of Newcastle upon Tyne East and Wallsend. It was represented throughout its existence by Nick Brown of the Labour Party, who served as Government Chief Whip from 1997 to 1998 and again from 2008 to 2010.\n\nThe City of Newcastle wards of Byker, Dene, Heaton, Monkchester, Walker, and Walkergate, and the Borough of North Tyneside wards of Northumberland and Wallsend.\n\nAs would be inferred from the name, the constituency consisted of the eastern parts of the City of Newcastle upon Tyne plus Wallsend and the surrounding area.\n\nFollowing their review of parliamentary representation in Tyne and Wear, reducing the number of seats in the county from 13 to 12, the Boundary Commission for England revived the constituency of Newcastle upon Tyne East in 2010. The Wallsend area was transferred to the adjacent North Tyneside constituency.\n\n"}
{"id": "1812689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812689", "title": "Newcastle upon Tyne North (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Newcastle upon Tyne North (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nNewcastle upon Tyne North is a constituency represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament since 2010 by Catherine McKinnell of the Labour Party.\n\n1918–1950: The County Borough of Newcastle wards of Dene, Heaton, Jesmond, St Andrew's, and St Thomas.\n\n1950–1983: The County Borough of Newcastle wards of Arthur's Hill, Elswick, Jesmond, Sandyford, and Westgate.\n\n1983–2010: The City of Newcastle wards of Castle, Denton, Fawdon, Grange, Lemington, Newburn, Westerhope, and Woolsington.\n\n2010–present: The City of Newcastle wards of Castle, Denton, East Gosforth, Fawdon, Lemington, Newburn, Parklands, Westerhope, and Woolsington.\n\nThe constituency included Newcastle city centre from 1950 to 1983 - this despite the fact that the Newcastle Central constituency was retained, albeit with redrawn boundaries.\n\nFrom its creation out of the old Newcastle-upon-Tyne constituency in 1918, the seat was a safe Conservative Party seat— including six years of representation by Gwilym Lloyd George, who was aligned to the National Liberal Party but served as Home Secretary for almost three years until 1957 in a Conservative government. This continued until the 1983 general election, when major boundary changes resulted in a constituency composed entirely of wards that did not form part of the pre-1983 Newcastle North. The majority of the old Newcastle North wards moved to Newcastle Central, which the Conservatives won in 1983, while the new Newcastle North became a safe Labour seat, although in 1983 Labour's majority was just over 2,500 votes in a relatively close three way race. Labour won the seat in the first election under the new boundaries despite a landslide defeat on the national scale, and have held the seat ever since, with the Liberal Democrats being the greatest challengers in 2005 and 2010, and the Conservatives finishing in second place in 2015, 2017 and 2019.\n\nThe 1983 result is classed as a hold for Labour, rather than a gain from the Conservatives, because the pre-1983 Newcastle-upon-Tyne North constituency, which was a Conservative-held seat, covered a substantially different area, so, aside from the name, the two seats are essentially entirely different. The constituency which replaced the pre-1983 Newcastle-upon-Tyne North constituency, Newcastle-upon-Tyne Central, was won by the Conservatives and is classed as a hold for the Conservatives, as they were incumbent party in the pre-1983 Newcastle-upon-Tyne North seat.\n\n"}
{"id": "1812694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812694", "title": "South Shields (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "South Shields (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nSouth Shields is a borough constituency represented in the House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It elects one Member of Parliament (MP) by the first past the post system of election. It has been represented by Emma Lewell-Buck of the Labour Party since 2013.\n\n1918–1950: The County Borough of South Shields.\n\n1950–1955: As prior but with redrawn boundaries.\n\n1955–1983: As prior but with redrawn boundaries.\n\n1983–1997: The Metropolitan Borough of South Tyneside wards of All Saints, Beacon and Bents, Cleadon Park, Harton, Horsley Hill, Rekendyke, Tyne Dock and Simonside, Westoe, West Park, and Whiteleas.\n\n1997–2010: The Metropolitan Borough of South Tyneside wards of All Saints, Beacon and Bents, Biddick Hall, Cleadon Park, Harton, Horsley Hill, Rekendyke, Tyne Dock and Simonside, Westoe, West Park, and Whiteleas.\n\n2010–present: The Metropolitan Borough of South Tyneside wards of Beacon and Bents, Biddick and All Saints, Cleadon Park, Harton, Horsley Hill, Simonside and Rekendyke, Westoe, West Park, Whitburn and Marsden, and Whiteleas.\n\nThe current constituency covers the area of South Shields in the South Tyneside district of Tyne and Wear. Boundary changes at the 2010 general election transferred the community of Whitburn into the South Shields constituency from the neighbouring Jarrow seat.\n\nThe seat was held from 2001 to 2013 by David Miliband, who served as Foreign Secretary from 2007 until Labour's general election defeat of 2010. On 26 March 2013 Miliband announced his resignation from Parliament in order to take up a post as the head of the International Rescue Committee in New York City.\n\nWith two exceptions (Arthur Blenkinsop and Emma Lewell-Buck) every South Shields MP since 1929 has been a cabinet member at some point in their career. Lewell-Buck has however been a shadow minister. Two of them, Chuter Ede (Home Secretary) and Miliband (Foreign Secretary), have held one of the great offices of state while MP for South Shields.\n\n\nCraig, F. W. S. (1983). British parliamentary election results 1918–1949 (3 ed.). Chichester: Parliamentary Research Services. .\n"}
{"id": "1812697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812697", "title": "Stockton South (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Stockton South (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nStockton South is a constituency represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament since December 2019 by Matt Vickers, a Conservative MP.\n\n1983–1997: The Borough of Stockton-on-Tees wards of Bishopsgarth, Egglescliffe, Fairfield, Grangefield, Hartburn, Ingleby Barwick, Mandale, Parkfield, Preston, Stainsby, Victoria, Village, and Yarm, and the Borough of Middlesbrough wards of Ayresome, Brookfield, and Kader.\n\n1997–2010: The Borough of Stockton-on-Tees wards of Bishopsgarth, Egglescliffe, Elm Tree, Fairfield, Grangefield, Hartburn, Ingleby Barwick, Mandale, Parkfield, Preston, Stainsby, Victoria, Village, and Yarm. \"The three Middlesbrough wards were transferred to the redrawn Middlesbrough constituency.\"\n\n2010–present: The Borough of Stockton-on-Tees wards of Bishopsgarth and Elm Tree, Eaglescliffe, Fairfield, Grangefield, Hartburn, Ingleby Barwick East, Ingleby Barwick West, Mandale and Victoria, Parkfield and Oxbridge, Stainsby Hill, Thornaby-on-Tees, and Yarm.\n\nStockton South consists of the south-western half of Stockton-on-Tees and on the same bank, upstream, the town of Eaglescliffe – on the southern bank of the River Tees are the towns of Thornaby-on-Tees, Yarm, and Ingleby Barwick.\n\nThe seat was formed from a combination of Stockton-on-Tees and Thornaby in 1983, predominantly as a replacement to the latter seat.\n\nMore \"middle-class\" than neighbouring Stockton North, and first held by the former SDP-Liberal Alliance very narrowly in 1983 after the Conservative candidate's nomination was withdrawn when he was revealed to have been in the National Front, then by a Conservative from 1987 for the next ten years, the seat acted as a bellwether in Labour's landslide in 1997 and its member Dari Taylor retained it until the 2010 general election when the Conservative, James Wharton narrowly won the seat. It was the Conservative Party's only gain in the North East, with Wharton substantially increasing his majority in the 2015 general election. However, Labour's victory in the seat in 2017 saw the seat's 30 year status as a bellwether constituency come to an end. In 2019, the Conservatives took it back in line with the general swing in their favour in multiple north-east Red wall seats which had previously looked impossible for them.\n\nBased on ONS data, workless claimants and registered jobseekers, were in May 2017 lower than the North East average of 5.9% and also lower than the national average of 4.6%, at 3.4% of the population.\n\nOn 11 December 2019, the day before the election, Devlin endorsed his Labour rival, the incumbent Williams, urging people to vote tactically. However, as nominations closed in November, Devlin still appeared on the ballot paper and therefore still received votes. \n\n"}
{"id": "1812703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812703", "title": "Sunderland North (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Sunderland North (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nSunderland North was a borough constituency represented in the House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It elected one Member of Parliament (MP) by the first past the post system of election.\n\nThe constituency was created in 1950 and abolished in 2010. It was considered to be a safe seat for the Labour Party throughout its existence.\n\n1950–1974: The County Borough of Sunderland wards of Bridge, Central, Colliery, Deptford, Fulwell, Monkwearmouth, Monkwearmouth Shore, Roker, and Southwick.\n\n1974–1983: The County Borough of Sunderland wards of Castletown, Central, Colliery, Deptford, Downhill, Ford, Fulwell, Hylton Castle, Monkwearmouth, Pallion, Roker, and Southwick.\n\n1983–1997: The Metropolitan Borough of Sunderland wards of Castletown, Central, Colliery, Fulwell, Pallion, St Peter's, South Hylton, Southwick, and Town End Farm.\n\n1997–2010: The City of Sunderland wards of Castletown, Central, Colliery, Fulwell, Pallion, St Peter's, Southwick, and Town End Farm.\n\nSunderland North, as can be inferred from the name, formed the northern part of the City of Sunderland. At the 2010 general election, it was replaced largely by the new constituency of Sunderland Central.\n\n"}
{"id": "1812706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812706", "title": "Sunderland South (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Sunderland South (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nSunderland South was, from 1950 until 2010, a constituency represented in the House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It elected one Member of Parliament (MP) by the first past the post system of election.\n\nThe constituency was well known for trying to be the first seat to declare its results, doing so in the general elections of 1992, 1997, 2001 and 2005.\n\nHaving been a Labour-Conservative marginal in the 1950s and 60s, Sunderland South was held by the Labour Party from 1964 until 2010, being represented by the politician and author Chris Mullin from 1987 until its abolition in 2010. Mullin did not contest the 2010 general election.\n\nThe constituency was well known for trying to be the first seat to declare its results, doing so in the general elections of 1992, 1997, 2001 and 2005.\n\n1950–1955: The County Borough of Sunderland wards of Bishopwearmouth, Hendon, Humbledon, Pallion, Park, St Michael's, Sunderland East, Thornhill, and West.\n\n1955–1974: The County Borough of Sunderland wards of Bishopwearmouth, Hendon, Humbledon, Pallion, Park, Pennywell, St Michael's, Thorney Close, and Thornhill.\n\n1974–1983: The County Borough of Sunderland wards of Bishopwearmouth, Hendon, Humbledon, Pennywell, Ryhope, St Chad's, St Michael's, Silksworth, Thorney Close, and Thornhill.\n\n1983–1997: The Metropolitan Borough of Sunderland wards of Grindon, Hendon, Ryhope, St Chad's, St Michael's, Silksworth, Thorney Close, and Thornholme.\n\n1997–2010: The City of Sunderland wards of Grindon, Hendon, St Chad's, St Michael's, Silksworth, South Hylton, Thorney Close, and Thornholme.\n\nThe constituency, as can be inferred from the name, formed the southern part of the City of Sunderland.\n\nFollowing their review of parliamentary representation in Tyne and Wear, the Boundary Commission for England divided Sunderland South between two new constituencies, Houghton and Sunderland South and Sunderland Central. These new constituencies were first contested in 2010.\n\n"}
{"id": "1812707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812707", "title": "Tyne Bridge (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Tyne Bridge (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nTyne Bridge was a parliamentary constituency in the north east of England, represented in the House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom, from 1983 until 2010. It elected one Member of Parliament (MP) by the first past the post system of election.\n\nTyne Bridge contained some of the UK's most deprived areas, and was a safe seat for the Labour Party throughout its existence.\n\n1983–1997: The City of Newcastle wards of Benwell, Elswick, Scotswood, and West City, and the Metropolitan Borough of Gateshead wards of Bede, Bensham, Dunston, and Teams.\n\n1997–2010: The City of Newcastle wards of Benwell, Elswick, Scotswood, and West City, and the Metropolitan Borough of Gateshead wards of Bede, Bensham, Deckham, Dunston, Saltwell, and Teams. \"Deckham and Saltwell wards were added to the seat from the abolished Gateshead East constituency.\"\n\nThe constituency covered central Tyneside in Tyne and Wear, with part of the constituency being north of the River Tyne in Newcastle, and the other part being south of the river, in Gateshead. It is named after the Tyne Bridge that crosses the river. It included Newcastle city centre; before 1983, this area was in the Newcastle-upon-Tyne North seat.\n\nFollowing a review of parliamentary representation in Tyne and Wear, the Boundary Commission for England abolished the Tyne Bridge constituency. At the 2010 general election it was replaced by the new constituency of Gateshead south of the River Tyne, and by the Newcastle-upon-Tyne Central constituency to the north.\n\n"}
{"id": "1812709", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812709", "title": "Tynemouth (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Tynemouth (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nTynemouth is a constituency represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament since 1997 by Alan Campbell, a member of the Labour Party.\n\n1918–1950: The County Borough of Tynemouth.\n\n1950–1983: The County Borough of Tynemouth, and the Urban District of Whitley Bay.\n\n1983–1997: The Borough of North Tyneside wards of Chirton, Collingwood, Cullercoats, Monkseaton, North Shields, Riverside, St Mary's, Seatonville, Tynemouth, and Whitley Bay.\n\n1997–2010: The Borough of North Tyneside wards of Chirton, Collingwood, Cullercoats, Monkseaton, North Shields, St Mary's, Seatonville, Tynemouth, and Whitley Bay.\n\n2010–present: The Borough of North Tyneside wards of Chirton, Collingwood, Cullercoats, Monkseaton North, Monkseaton South, Preston, St Mary's, Tynemouth, Valley, and Whitley Bay.\n\nThe seat covers Tynemouth, North Shields, Whitley Bay, Cullercoats, Monkseaton, and since 2010 Shiremoor and Backworth.\n\nThe constituency was created under the Redistribution of Seats Act 1885.\n\nThe seat has historically shown the highest level of support for the Conservative Party in the Tyne and Wear area, with the Conservatives holding the seat for 47 years from 1950-1997; though sometimes with only narrow majorities. However, since the 1997 general election, it has been represented by Alan Campbell of the Labour Party\n\nThe present member, Alan Campbell reached the level of government below a Minister of State in 2008, as a Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for the Home Office.\n\nA coastal seat on the northern bank of the River Tyne. North Shields and the communities along the Tyne itself tend to be more industrial and working-class, once dominated by coal mining and shipbuilding. The coastal towns to the north, such as Whitley Bay, tend to be more middle-class dormitory towns for Newcastle commuters.\n\nThis has tended to be one of the more Conservative-leaning seats in the North East of England, where the party has traditionally struggled against the Labour Party. As a relatively middle-class area, it returned Conservative MPs from 1950-1997; albeit often on narrow majorities. It has been represented by Labour since 1997, though the Conservatives remain strong at a local level. Similar to Sefton Central on Merseyside, despite being a traditionally strong Conservative area in a Labour-dominated county, the area has swung significantly to Labour during the twenty-first century, and has been won by semi-marginal to safe margins by Labour candidates at every general election since 1997, with significant swings to Labour seen in both 2015 and 2017.\n\nWorkless claimants, registered jobseekers, were in November 2012 close to the national average of 3.8%, at 3.9% of the population based on a statistical compilation by \"The Guardian\", lower than the regional average by 0.5%.\n\n\nFor the 2010 election, this was the primary target seat for the Conservatives in North East England following impressive local council victories since 2006 and the recent marginality of Alan Campbell's 2005 re-election. However, they failed to take the seat and any of its surrounding seats, which remained Labour.\n\nMichael McIntyre was councillor for the Whitley Bay Ward at the time of polling. The Conservatives hoped to snatch the seat, but could only diminish Alan Campbell's majority. In the Mayoral election held on the same day, Mayor Linda Arkley (Conservative) narrowly lost re-election.\n\nLabour MP Alan Campbell was returned in 2001 with smaller majority on the back of Tony Blair's second landslide.\n\nIn 1997 Labour won their largest Tynemouth majority ever. The Conservatives chose Gateshead Councillor Martin Callanan as their candidate to replace the retiring Neville Trotter. He would latterly become a North East MEP.\n\nIn 1992 Neville Trotter narrowly won his final term as the Labour candidate's fourth attempt failed. Many council seats were also unexpectedly won on the back of John Major's victory such as Whitley Bay and Monkseaton.\n\n\"1983: Neville Trotter's biggest majority on the back of Mrs. Thatcher's landslide.\"\n\n\"1979: Patrick 'Paddy' Cosgrove's first of four attempts to win the seat. Cosgrove was the Labour councillor for Whitley Bay Ward.\"\n\n\"February 1974: Neville Trotter, a Newcastle City Councillor and Chartered Accountant, becomes MP.\"\n\n\"1970: Jeremy Beecham would later become leader of Newcastle City Council and a Peer.\"\n\n\"1966: Gordon Adam would latterly become a North East MEP and make a failed bid to become Elected Mayor of North Tyneside in 2001.\"\n\n\"1918: Dixon Scott was the founder of Newcastle's 'News Cinema', the modern 'Tyneside Cinema'.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1812710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812710", "title": "King's Lynn railway station", "text": "King's Lynn railway station\n\nKing's Lynn railway station is the northern terminus of the Fen line in the east of England, serving the town of King's Lynn, Norfolk. It is from and measured from London Liverpool Street.\n\nThe station and most trains calling are operated by Great Northern (with service to and from ), with some additional peak services being operated by Greater Anglia (to and from London Liverpool Street).\n\nIt has been the only station in the town since the closure of South Lynn railway station in 1959.\n\nThe Bill for the Lynn and Ely Railway received Royal Assent on 30 June 1845. Work started on the line in 1846 and so the railway arrived at Lynn on 27 October 1846. The original line ran South to Downham with the first station after Lynn being St Germain's. It took another two years to reach Ely. Great Eastern Railway. Lynn, when opened was a Joint station (Lynn & Ely and Lynn & Dereham). However, on 22 July 1847 the Lynn & Ely and Lynn & Dereham were amalgamated to form the East Anglian Railway. A spur connecting the harbour was opened in 1849, and at one point was a complicated network of lines, boasting two swing bridges, serving premises on and around the town's South Quay. Another short branch, about three-quarters of a mile (1200 m) long, connecting the docks was opened in 1862 by the King's Lynn Docks & Railway Company. The railway was initially not welcomed by the port authorities in King's Lynn; they predicted that sea-bound trade would decline, and were later proved correct when through-trains to London ended up carrying the majority of freight to the capital.\n\nLynn opened as a junction station. The Lynn & Dereham Railway Act of 21 July 1845, authorised a line which weaved a route to Dereham. The line opened to Narborough, on 27 October 1846, the same day the Lynn & Ely opened to Downham. The line was extended to Swaffham, on 10 August 1847, opening in stages between 1846 and 1848. The line ran out of Lynn in a South-Easterly direction with Middleton being the first station after Lynn. this later became part of the Great Eastern Railway.\n\nExpansion followed with the opening of several branches. A line running north to the seaside resort of Hunstanton was opened in 1862, a journey celebrated by former Poet Laureate John Betjeman in a short BBC film about the line.\n\nThe Hunstanton line included Wolferton station, which served the Royal Family's Sandringham House, and so became the route of hundreds of Royal Trains. Since Royal services to London had to first pass through King's Lynn before heading south to King's Cross, crowds on King's Lynn station cheering the Royal Train became one of the town's cherished and memorable traditions.\n\nKing's Lynn also received services from the Midland and Great Northern Joint Railway system, whose main station serving the town was in nearby South Lynn; a short shuttle service ran from King's Lynn to South Lynn as often as twenty times a day. The station opened in 1886, serving Sutton Bridge and Spalding to the west. Prior to the opening of South Lynn station, there had been a simple single platform station serving West Lynn, on the west bank of the River Ouse. An early constituent of the M&GN, the Lynn & Fakenham Railway, had used King's Lynn station, but ran into it from the north, via Gaywood Junction. This line was abandoned on the opening of the station at South Lynn. The \"Lynn Avoiding\" line was the last link in the chain which brought the eastern lines, which had reached Norwich in 1882, and Cromer in 1887, in direct contact with the lines west of Lynn.\n\nKing's Lynn's original station building was replaced by the current building by the builder Robert Skipper of Dereham in 1871-72, and was significantly extended in 1910; the original of 1846 was a somewhat rudimentary timber building on the site of the goods yards of the time.\n\nRestoration work began in April 2013 as a station rewire which quickly grew into a heritage inspired project. The view taken was to restore the station to a 1949 state with British Rail branding and reminisces of the GER and LNER railways. The paint scheme was based upon a GER steam unit which had blue red and gold. GER cast iron benches were made locally by East Coast Castings in Wotton and BR style totems were hand-made alongside LNER station clocks. Platforms were resurfaced and LED lighting installed throughout public areas along with new CCTV. A Norfolk county flagpole was installed to replace the old one and canopies and roof restored and or replaced. The overall cost was under £1.1million. The project was jointly funded by First Capital Connect and Network Rail. The project's completion was marked with Michael Portillo unveiling a plaque in the booking hall area on 22 July 2014.\n\nAt their peak, the railways in and around King's Lynn employed hundreds of people, but Britain's extensive railway cutbacks in the late 1950s and the following decades badly affected King's Lynn's railway services. The 1959 closure of the former M&GN's lines resulted in the closure of South Lynn railway station on 28 February that year, depriving King's Lynn of services to Norwich and Spalding. The dubious safety of a bridge over the Ouse, a very short way north-west of South Lynn station, was allegedly a significant factor in the closure of the whole route, and was demolished later that year. A section of this line about half a mile (800 m) long was left open for freight into the 1990s, transporting materials like oil and limestone to the sugar beet factory (since closed).\n\nOther services suffered a similar fate in the following years. Passenger services to Hunstanton were discontinued in 1969, services to Wisbech (via Magdalen Road) ended in 1968, and the line to Dereham was closed in the same year, save for a three-mile section for sand freight from King's Lynn to Middleton. The closure of these services left only one passenger route in operation—services to Ely and Cambridge on the Fen Line.\n\nFreight services to King's Lynn were less swiftly, but even more extensively, affected by cutbacks. Campbell's made heavy use of rail transport after opening its factory in Lynn in 1959, its curtain-sided wagons being one of the more distinctive sights on the Fen Line; but with the withdrawal of Speedlink services in the early 1990s, this traffic was lost to road transport. The branch to the harbour was progressively shortened before its final closure at around the same time, and the line to the docks closed as well (except for a short stub allowing the aforementioned freight trains from Middleton to change direction), the last train passing over the line in June 1994. The station's once-extensive goods yard suffered the same fate, the site being taken over by the station's car park and two large shops.\n\nAs of late 2013 the main station entrance and booking hall were closed due to extensive repairs being required to the ticket office floor and the replacement of the station's glazed roof. This enabled a Georgian wire glass to be put back in place and various lime mortar repairs and the flagpole being replaced with one of GRP and stainless steel.\n\nBefore electrification in 1992, InterCity (latterly Network SouthEast) locomotives operated most services, normally hauling British Rail Mark 2b coaches. Many of these services featured full-service restaurant cars. The locomotives were usually Class 37 diesel-electrics, Freight services were operated by a similar array of diesel locomotives, as well as Class 20s, Class 31s, and the occasional Class 08 shunter. Off-peak links were often provided by Metro-Cammell diesel multiple units, such as the Class 101.\n\nFor many years after electrification, and the consequent removal of diesel locomotives from passenger services, Class 317 electrical multiple units operated all services out of King's Lynn. While they were not as comfortable as the previous fleet of locomotive-hauled coaches, they quickly developed a reputation for reliability. Today's services are mostly operated by Class 387s. Greater Anglia operate weekday peak-hour services between King's Lynn and London Liverpool Street using Class 379s.\nThe only freight activity around King's Lynn today is the sand trains which run from the Middleton Towers branch to either Goole, Barnsley or Doncaster. These are usually operated by GB Railfreight, using Class 66 locomotives. Occasionally, enthusiast railtours operate on this branch as well.\n\nThe station is primarily served by Great Northern as part of its service from King's Cross. Outside peak hours, services run non-stop between London and Cambridge as part of a half-hourly Cambridge service; one train per hour then continues beyond Cambridge, stopping at all stations on the Fen Line to King's Lynn. A small number of services, operated by Greater Anglia during weekday peak hours, travel to Liverpool Street instead. In the past, through-trains from London always started from Liverpool Street, but services were shifted to King's Cross in the 1990s.\n\nOn 9 November 2010, the Railway Cafe celebrated the centenary of its opening.\n\nTicket barriers were installed in 2012.\n\nIt was originally intended that King's Lynn would be included in the Thameslink Programme, so that most trains for London from King's Lynn would be diverted on to the Thameslink route and on to St Pancras, Farringdon rather than terminating at King's Cross. However, this did not occur and King's Lynn trains continue to provide the fast service from Cambridge to Kings Cross.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1812713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812713", "title": "North Tyneside (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "North Tyneside (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nNorth Tyneside is a constituency represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament since 2010 by Mary Glindon of the Labour Party.\n\nThis seat was represented from its creation in 1997 by Stephen Byers of the Labour Party, who before that election represented the abolished seat of Wallsend from 1992. Byers stood down at the 2010 general election and his party selected local councillor Mary Glindon as their new candidate for the general election, which she won with a majority of 12,884.\n\nThis constituency forms north-east suburbs to the largest city in the region, Newcastle. At the end of 2010, unemployment still reflected a slightly less strong economy than in the city's shipbuilding heyday and stood in this seat alone at 5.7% by claimant count, compared to a regional average of 5.5%, significantly lower than South Shields' 7.7%. As to the male only claimant total, this amounted to 7.8%, just part of a significant region-wide disparity but significantly lower than Middlesbrough's 12.8%, however both sets of figures were a little higher than the national average — Greater London saw an average of 4.1% and for men a proportion of 4.9%.\n\n1997–2010: The Borough of North Tyneside wards of Battle Hill, Benton, Camperdown, Holystone, Howdon, Longbenton, Riverside, Valley, and Weetslade.\n\n2010–present: The Borough of North Tyneside wards of Battle Hill, Benton, Camperdown, Howdon, Killingworth, Longbenton, Northumberland, Riverside, Wallsend, and Weetslade.\n\nThe seat contains Wallsend, which has been moved from Newcastle upon Tyne East and Wallsend. As a consequence of 2010 changes, Newcastle East becomes a constituency in its own right.\n\n\"2010: At this election Mary Glindon was Councillor for Battle Hill Ward, David Ord was Councillor for Northumberland Ward and Gagan Mohindra was District Councillor in Epping Forest, Essex.\"\n\n\"2005: Duncan McLellan was Councillor for Weetslade Ward 2005-2012.\"\n\n\"1997: Michael McIntyre was Councillor for Whitley Bay Ward 1992-2012.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1812723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812723", "title": "AverStar", "text": "AverStar\n\nAverStar (formerly Intermetrics, Inc.) was a software company founded in Cambridge, Massachusetts in 1969 by several veterans of M.I.T.'s Instrumentation Laboratory who had worked on the software for NASA's Apollo Program including the Apollo Guidance Computer.\n\nThe company specialized in compiler technology. It was responsible for the design and implementation of the HAL/S programming language, used to write the Space Shuttle PASS (Primary Avionics Software System). It participated in the design effort leading to the Ada programming language, designed the Red language, one of the finalists in the design competition, and wrote one of the first production-quality Ada compilers. The large-scale Ada 95 revision of the language was designed at Intermetrics.\nIntermetrics merged with Whitesmiths Ltd. in December 1988. In 1997, Intermetrics merged with computer game developer Looking Glass Studios . In 1998, Intermetrics acquired Pacer Infotec, and changed its name to 'AverStar'. AverStar merged with the Titan Corporation in March, 2000; Titan was acquired by L-3 Communications in 2005.\n\n"}
{"id": "1812736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812736", "title": "Galang (song)", "text": "Galang (song)\n\n\"Galang\" is a song by British musician M.I.A. from her debut album \"Arular\". It was released on Showbiz Records in 2003 as her first single, which pressed 500 vinyl copies, gaining immediate international recognition via radio airplay, fashion shows, club rotations and internet filesharing. \"Galang\" was re-released on 1 November 2004 via XL Recordings as the second single from the album released by the label and was released for a third time as \"Galang '05\" on 11 October 2005 by the label and in the US by Interscope Records. It is written by Maya \"M.I.A.\" Arulpragasam, Justine Frischmann, Ross Orton and Steve Mackey. It first appeared on M.I.A.'s six song demo tape in 2003, her official MySpace account on 9 June 2004 and was later reworked slightly by Orton and Mackey who received production credit for the song. \"Galang\" was the second song M.I.A. wrote on her Roland MC-505, intending for the piece to be performed by Frischmann's band Elastica. Inspired by her experiences and observations of life in London, M.I.A. wrote the song to encourage her friends in the band to continue to make music. However, after cowriting the song, Frischmann convinced M.I.A. to record \"Galang\" herself, complimenting the piece's lyrical narrative and music direction.\n\nMusically, \"Galang\" is a dance-oriented midtempo song, combining elements of dancehall, electro, jungle, and world music. M.I.A.'s voice is heard in a whooping chant-like rap over polyrhythmic Roland MC-505 arrangements of beats, drums, claps and synths along the song's bassline. The word 'galang' comes from Caribbean slang word for 'go along'. The lyrics of the song are ambiguous, and could be interpreted differently by listeners, containing hidden innuendo to cannabis use, sex, and violence and acknowledgement of songs such as \"London Calling\". The song comments on a weed smoking young character in Iraq War/post 9/11 period London, caught in street battles, paranoid and chased by police while looking for work in the city. \"Galang\" was a major critical success amongst contemporary and older critics, who frequently hail its sound and lyrics as novel, reflective and ahead of their time. It charted in the UK and Canada and reached number 11 on the US \"Billboard\" Hot Dance Singles Sales.\n\nThe song's accompanying music video, directed by Ruben Fleischer and art directed by M.I.A. portrays the singer in several costumes roaming and dancing amidst stencils of her single artwork and images from her 2001 Alternative Turner Prize nominated exhibition, animated in the background. With the video, scholars note that multiple M.I.A.s appear against a backdrop of militaristic animated graffiti, utilising symbolism of urban Britain and war, tiger imagery and Tamil script stencils. The video was given vitality by the bold use of day-glo colour and her distinct design technique in the art, her costumes and music, triggering the new rave revolution upon its release. \"Galang\" appeared on several publications' lists of the best song of the year, decade and of all time. The song's rapid international propagation through radio, fashion shows and the internet along with \"Sunshowers\" made it one of the first viral phenomena in the modern age, and affirmed M.I.A as one of the first popstars of the digital age.\n\n\"Galang\" has been covered by jazz pianist Vijay Iyer and is officially remixed by Serj Tankian and Dave Kelly, both appearing on the B-side of its 2005 reedition. The song has appeared in the feature film \"Pride and Glory\", a commercial for Honda Civic and the television series \"Sherlock\" and \"Entourage.\" M.I.A. performed the song on \"Sen kväll med Luuk\" and \"Late Night with Conan O'Brien\" and performs the song on her concert tours, first on her Arular Tour and most recently the /\\/\\ /\\ Y /\\ Tour where it was well appreciated by fans. Hailed as one of M.I.A.'s defining tracks, her persona in the song has influenced numerous artists worldwide, led to M.I.A.'s acceptance by a generation who emulated her music, style and fashion, and cemented her position as a global indie cultural icon.\n\nFollowing her work as a photographer/graphic designer and music video director for the band Elastica, M.I.A. decided to video document the band's last tour together in 2001 to direct the music video for their single \"Mad Dog God Dam\". On the tour, she was introduced to the Roland MC-505 sequencer/drum machine by electroclash artist Peaches, whose minimalistic approach to music inspired her. She found Peaches' decision to perform without additional instrumentation to be brave and liberating and felt that it emphasised the artist. While vacationing together in Bequia in the Caribbean, M.I.A. began experimenting with Elastica singer Justine Frischmann's 505, having unexpectedly gaining access to it in London. She adopted her stage name, \"M.I.A.\", standing for \"Missing In Acton\" during this time, following from her documentary film in Jaffna and her art exhibition of the same name. M.I.A. used the 505 to make demo recordings in her bedroom. She initially planned to work as a producer. Composed as a song for Elastica to encourage the band to continue making music, Frischmann convinced M.I.A to record music herself instead after co-writing the composition. M.I.A. lacked confidence in making music and to this end, she approached Caribbean girls in clubs to see if they would provide vocals for the songs, but without success. She chose to perform the vocals herself, saying \"I just quietly got on with it ... I didn't wanna convince anyone it was good. I felt it was much better to prove that I could be an individual.\"\n\n\"Galang\" is a moderately fast song, with a tempo of 101 beats per minute. It combines dancehall, jungle, electroclash and worldbeat with folk style chants, and is set in common time. The song features sparse instrumentation throughout, consisting primarily of minimal \"jarring\" polyrhythm beats written with a drum machine and \"blaring\" Moog synthesiser sounds as the song's riff. Its rhythms are influenced by traditional Sri Lankan songs, and feature beeps, bloops and electronic loops. It is in verse-chorus form before the fourth and final chorus and a vocal coda. Composed in London using a second-hand 4-track tape machine, the Roland MC-505, and a radio microphone, M.I.A. recorded \"Galang\" in the same vein as the rest of \"Arular\", the song eventually becoming part of a six song demo tape that included \"Lady Killa\", and her first ever composition \"M.I.A.\" Having produced rough tracks via trial and error, she honed the finished songs in collaboration with other writer-producers. Through these collaborations, she sought to produce a diverse style and \"drag [her collaborators] out of their boxes, musically\". Steve Mackey and Ross Orton, under the name Cavemen, worked further on \"Galang\" with M.I.A in a professional studio, where she added a bass line and new vocals to give the song a more analogue sound than was possible with the 505. The track was co-written by Frischmann, whose input M.I.A. described as \"refreshing\" due to Frischmann's experimental approach to lyrical themes. Speaking openly about the lyrical origins of the song, she said \"This was only the second track I ever wrote, so I was still experimenting. I just wanted to put down all the advice everyone had said to me about how to survive in London.\"\n\nThe single/demo was the first release for Jonathan Dickins' Showbiz Records, a label that operated through Dicken's uncle's record label Instant Karma. Upon pressing 500 12-inch vinyl copies of the single and demo, it made an immediate impact in dance clubs, college radio, fashion shows and record labels. On the vinyl, \"Galang\" appeared alongside acapella and instrumental versions of the song. \"Galang\" became popular with BBC Radio 1 DJs Gilles Peterson and Pete Tong, the latter including the song as part of his \"Essential Selection\" radio set in 2003. The success of the song led to a signing with XL Recordings and M.I.A. requesting Dickens to work as her manager, beginning Dickens career in music industry management. M.I.A. wanted to sign to XL due to the label office's proximity to her house, and her respect for label owner Richard Russell and his pioneering involvement with the rave scene in 1990s London that the singer was a fan of. Uploading the song and others she had recorded onto music sharing website MySpace in June 2004 paralleled the file-sharing and fast propagation of \"Galang\" and \"Sunshowers\" around the Internet by word-of-mouth, increasing the songs' international listenership. This led to wide acclaim for the singer, who is hailed as one of the first artists to build a large fanbase exclusively via these channels and as someone who could be studied to reexamine the internet's impact on how listeners are exposed to new music. Malik Meer of \"The Guardian\" notes how the spread of \"Galang\" across the web confirmed M.I.A's status as one of the first popstars of the digital age, while Gary Shteyngart, writing for GQ, commented on how the song went viral across the internet \"before anyone was even using the word \"viral\".\n\n\"Galang\" was released in Australia by Remote Control Records on 25 October 2004 and rereleased on 1 November 2004 by XL Recordings as the second official single from the album, in two CD formats and a 12-inch vinyl format. On the first CD a remix by Cavemen appeared on the B-side, while on the second the same remix and an instrumental version appeared on the B-side alongside a remix by South Rakkas. \"Galang\" was released again in October 2005 following her signing to Interscope Records in the US, under the title \"Galang '05\", with one remix by Dave Kelly featuring the singer Cham, and another by Serj Tankian.\n\nJazz pianist Vijay Iyer recorded an acoustic jazz version of Galang with his trio for the album \"Historicity\". M.I.A. performed the song on 5 November 2004 on \"Sen kväll med Luuk\" and on 27 May 2005 on \"Late Night with Conan O'Brien\". \"Galang\" was featured in an advertisement for the Honda Civic, and was also used in the episode \"\" from season 2 on \"Entourage.\" The song featured on the 2008 video game \"Dancing Stage Universe 2.\" The song featured in the 2008 film \"Pride and Glory.\" \"Galang\" appears on the video game Dance Central released in 2011.\n\n\"Galang\" has featured on the setlist of the Arular Tour, Kala Tour, People Vs. Money Tour and Maya Tour, all major concert tours that M.I.A has undertaken. She ended her set in the Gobi tent at the 2005 Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival with the song, leading to an encore in response to crowd enthusiasm, a rarity for the festival and the first tent encore at Coachella. Describing the performance she said, \"When I played three years ago, it was such a crazy moment. It was my first festival and I had only done about five shows in my entire life...They dismantled the stage and had to put it back together because all the people started going, 'M.I.A! M.I.A!' I don't think I'd ever be able to do something like that again, because it was my moment.\"\n\nThe rapper performed \"Galang\" and a cover of the rock band Kaiser Chiefs' \"Everyday I Love You Less and Less\" on Jo Whiley's BBC Radio 1 Live Lounge, on 6 September 2005, the day of the 2005 Mercury Music Prize ceremony.\n\n\"Galang\" earned massive critical success upon its release, with its novelty, genre amalgamation and lyrics highlighted as positive features of the song, and typical of the compositions on \"Arular\". Michaelangelo Matos in the \"Seattle Weekly\" described the words \"London calling, speak the slang now/Boys say wha' gwan, girls say wha' wha',\" as \"tempting\" taunts \"from the top,\" whilst appreciating the \"jump-rope skip abetted with a flat-four stomp at the end of the second bar, great groaning wowing synth-bass, post-Diwali hand claps, and what sound like tuned bottles clinking along every so often.\" He continued \"The lift-up-and-over moment comes at 2:30, when the beat subsides and an a cappella \"Ya-ya-hey! Whoa-yay-oh-yay-ohhh!\" so simultaneously plainspoken and transported you can feel the concrete beneath their sneakers and see the clear skies beyond the council flats.\" \"Spin\" noted that the rapper \"kicks fierce digitized double Dutch rhymes in a room full of bug zappers\" before declaring the song to be \"more addictive than online poker.\" Sasha Frere-Jones, writing in \"The New Yorker,\" appreciated the track's lyrics, feeling the track's \"'Ya ya heeey, woy oy ee he hay yo' wasn't a pop chorus, or any sound that you'd hear on American radio, even if the station were playing, you know, world music. It's a voice from a place where kids throw rocks at tanks, where people pull down walls with their bare hands. It could be the sound of a carnival, or a riot.\" \"i-D\" called the song \"massive,\" while \"Dazed & Confused\" described the song as a \"nagging electro bashment monster.\" \"NME\" described the song as \"100 per cent ersatz: Sri Lanka imagined from a Shoreditch loft, Jamaican riddim conjured up from a GameBoy memory card.\" The reviewer implored listeners to not \"be fooled by the sweetness of Maya's singalong patois, though\", concluding that \"‘Galang’ secretes a martial edge under its seductive exterior; this is a song that advances on you, knife between clenched teeth\" and that the single as a whole was effortlessly brilliant. It was also named \"Rough Trade's\" \"Single of the Year.\" \"Galang\" placed highly in \"Best of Year\" and \"Best of decade/Alltime\" lists in several publications in various countries.\n\nThe critical success of \"Galang\" was cemented after its appearance on several publications' Best of the Year Lists in 2004. The song has frequently been named one of the best compositions released in the 2000s decade and of all time. Blender positioned the song at number thirty nine on its list of the songs of the year, while it was named the seventh best single of the year on the \"Eye Weekly\" Canadian Critics Poll of 2004. Pitchforkmedia ranked \"Galang\" as the fourth best song the same year on their \"Singles of the Year\" list, while \"Rolling Stone\" (USA) – named it the tenth best on their \"Singles of the Year\" list. \"Galang\" positioned twelfth on \"Stylus\" magazine's \"Singles of the Year\" list while in the same year, it appeared eighth on the \"Village Voice\" list of the tops songs of 2004. German radio network 1LIVE named the song the twenty third best single on their 2004 list, while named it the forty fourth best song of the year. \"Iguana\" music magazine named it the ninety third best single of the year while \"Zündfunk\" of Germany named it the top single of 2004.\n\nOn its list of the \"Top 500 Songs of the 80s–00s\" period, \"Blender\" ranked \"Galang\" eighty one. Pitchforkmedia named the song the twentieth best song in their list \"The 100 Best Singles of 2000–2004.\" \"Porcys\" of Poland named it the eleventh best song on their \"100 Singles 2000–2004\" list. The song appears at number forty one on \"Stylus magazine's\" list \"The 50 Best Singles of 2000–2004\". \"Galang\" is listed on The Pitchfork 500, a 2008 published book on the Pitchfork's \"Guide to the Greatest Songs from Punk to the Present\" in the 2003–2006 release period section. Swedish music magazine \"\" positioned the song at forty three on their \"The 50 Best Songs of the 21st Century\" list. \"Rolling Stone\" (Spain) named \"Galang\" the sixth best song on their list \"The 100 Best Songs of the 21st Century\". In 2010, \"Slant\" named the music video for \"Galang\" the forty-eighth \"Best Music Video of the 2000s Decade\".\n\nThe accompanying video for \"Galang\", featuring multiple M.I.A.s amid a backdrop of her graffiti artwork animated, was directed by Ruben Fleischer and art directed by M.I.A. M.I.A. told Negar Azimi of \"Bidoun\" she had collaborated with Steve Loveridge to spray paint her original artwork for the video, who worked in a car park while it rained. Fleischer animated her artwork to provide a backdrop for M.I.A.'s floppy, energetic, endearing dance stylings. Bright colors pop, a tiger streaks in the background, and rainbow-colored Tamil script adorns the stencils. M.I.A. sings and dances across the screen through the verses and chroruses, before the camera pans out to multiple M.I.A.s during the song's coda.\n\nThe musician decided to wear her own designs on the video, and collaborated with designer Carri Mundane on a tracksuit for the shoot. \"Galang\" received some airplay on MTV2's \"Subterranean,\" and was also shown when she appeared as a guest on the show on 29 May 2005. Ranjani Gopalarathinam of \"Coolhunting\" notes that M.I.A.'s personal style \"might be a little harder to imitate but believe me I will try – the b-girl vacations in the tropics, but won’t ever forsake her kicks for a pair of thongs (cuz she's gotta dance)\", concluding \"When you see the video you feel familiar with the visuals, but that's just because you WISH.\"\n\nThe visual artwork in the video, as Jason Jenkins of \"The Japan Times\" notes, shares the dichotomy present between M.I.A.'s music and lyrics; tanks, grenades and burning palm trees figure prominently in her work, but are presented in the video in bright, kaleidoscopic colours using stencils and Day-Glo spray paint. Rob Wheaton, writing in PopMatters noted that M.I.A.'s approach was an artistic risk, given the \"superficial, ephermeral\" nature of her chosen media – graffiti stencil art and popular music. He felt that her style was the opposite of radical artists like Fernando Solanas and Octavio Gettino, who followed Frantz Fanon in calling for an art that documented resistance while breaking down the barriers between spectator and artist, stating that \"M.I.A.'s art and music, by contrast, are all spectacle. The two-dimensional stencils and the catchy hooks can only subvert the audience's role after their immediate appeal has worn off, and they lack the breadth to contain a full alternative program.\" However, he argued, this made sense to him, given that \"the realm of the image is what M.I.A. is most determined to contest\" including media role models promoted on MTV and the conformity of mainstream popular culture. Critics from \"Slant\" noted that against a backdrop of graffitied third-world signifiers—tigers, cell phones, palm trees, tanks, bombs—that pulsated along to the song's beats, M.I.A. \"simply, and coyly,\" performs a silly little-girl dance, setting up what would become her multimedia M.O. for years to come.\n\nAmy Phillips of Pitchforkmedia noted, following M.I.A's performance of \"Galang\" mashed up with \"Lip Gloss\" by Lil' Mama at the Terminal 5 club, CMJ Music Marathon, KALA Tour, how \"Galang\" served as a reminder of how much the mainstream pop, dance, rap musical landscape had shifted since M.I.A first appeared in 2004 with songs from \"Arular\", highlighting megahits such as Fergie's \"London Bridge\" as having come to resemble M.I.A's sound. Steve Yates of \"The Guardian\" highlights the similarity between the latter and \"Galang\", which the head of Interscope Records Jimmy Iovine described as another case of M.I.A inspiring other artists. Resemblances between \"Galang\" and Beck's 2005 track \"Clap Hands\" have been noted by music critics, as have similarities between the video and artwork to that of Rihanna's 2010 hit \"Rude Boy\".\n\nThe uploading of \"Galang\" on social networking site MySpace in 2004 and its video's subsequent release and propagation led to the song and \"Sunshowers\" becoming the web's first viral successes and have contributed towards M.I.A's reputation as being \"several miles\" ahead of the pack in the music industry. Described as a new raver \"before it was old\", she is often praised for having triggered the genre and aesthetic into music in the mid-2000s. Hattie Collins of \"The Guardian\" noted how the songs of the album showcased M.I.A as a quirky female singer/rapper \"before the Mini Allens had worked out how to log on to MySpace.\" When asked by Craig McLean of \"Spin\" about how she felt towards paving the way for Lily Allen's success, the singer was quoted as saying \"she works with the same sort of sound, similar vibes to it, you just make a template. Of course, if you're the first one to do it it's really hard\" but added that her familiarity with being an outsider and the privilege of artists such as Allen meant she was not frustrated that others had taken her template and sold more records with it, noting \"I'm used to dealing with those situations better.\" Eddy Lawrence of \"Time Out\" commented how \"Galang\" alongside M.I.A's other releases helped make the singer a carnival queen and everyone's favourite \"grime/electro/ravehall artist – beloved of the broadsheet fashionistas yet simultaneously patron saint and pin-up for the Day-Glo nu-rave kids.\" In December 2011, \"Galang\" was ranked number 10 on \"Time Out\"s list of the \"100 best London songs\" ever released.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1812742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812742", "title": "Lucena, Córdoba", "text": "Lucena, Córdoba\n\nLucena () is a Spanish city and municipality, in the province of Córdoba, autonomous community of Andalusia, 60 km southeast of Córdoba, 85 km north of Málaga, 140 km east of Sevilla, 105 km west of Granada, and 90 km southwest of Jaén, all very important Andalusian provincial capitals.\nIts circa 42,000 people makes Lucena the second largest municipality in the province after the provincial capital, Córdoba. It is located at the conjunction of important highways in the geographical center of Andalusia. People from Lucena are called \"lucentinos\".\nThe city was originally known as \"Eliossana\", perhaps from the Hebrew \"Elí hoshanna\", \"May God save us\". The name in Arabic is \"Al-Yussana\".\n\nLucena is situated on the Lucena River, a minor tributary of the Genil, on an important crossroads at the very center of Andalusia.\n\nOver 90 percent of the population lives to the northeast of the city district (\"término municipal\").\n\nIn early times Lucena was inhabited almost exclusively by Jews who had arrived together with its founders; hence it was called \"Jews' City\", a nickname also applied to Granada and Tarragona. The Jews of Lucena, who carried on extensive trade and industries, were, according to the 11th-century Muslim geographer, Mohamed al-Edrisi, richer than those of any other city. They enjoyed the same freedom as their correligionists in the large Muslim cities. Their rabbi, who was elected by the entire community, was granted special privileges and acted as judge in the civil and criminal cases arising in the community. The Jews lived peaceably until the Almoravides came into power.\n\nAt the beginning of the 11th century, several important Jewish scholars lived in Lucena. Isaac Alfasi founded a large Talmudic academy in Lucena, and here also Isaac ibn Ghayyat, Isaac ibn Albalia, and Joseph ibn Migash were prominent.\n\nLucena was taken from the Moors in 1240 by king Ferdinand III of Castile, but it remained as frontier village for centuries. In fact, it was in the attempt to recapture it that King Boabdil of Granada was taken prisoner in 1483.\n\nThe parish church dates from the ending of the 15th century. Our Lady of Araceli is an image brought from Rome in the 16th century and is the patron of Lucena, canonically crowned in 1948.\n\nThe chief industries are the manufacture of furniture, industrial refrigerators, wine, bronze lamps and pottery, especially the large earthenware jars (tinajas) used in the past throughout Spain for the storage of oil and wine, some of which hold more than 300 gallons. Matches also used to be made there. There is considerable trade in agricultural produce. The horse fair in September was famous throughout Andalusia, but since the last decades of the 20th century there is only a fair like in most towns in Andalusia.\n\nThis town gives its name to a city of the Philippines islands Lucena City and another city at state of Paraiba in the northeast of Brazil, also called Lucena. There is a separate city in southern Brazil called \"Presidente Lucena,\" a name which came from Henrique Pereira de Lucena (born in Recife, capital of the state of Pernambuco. He later nominated Barão de Lucena (or Baron of Lucena) who governed the provinces of Pernambuco, Bahia and Rio Grande do Sul in the 19th century during the period of Brazilian Empire.\n\nAlso from Lucena (Córdoba) was Abraham of Lucena (Portuguese: Abraão de Lucena), a rabbi who founded the first synagogue in the United States.\n\nEaster, or Semana Santa, is the most important celebration taking place yearly in Lucena, just like in most parts of Spain. However, Lucena's Semana Santa, declared of Special Tourist Interest, is well known for its peculiar and unique way of porting or carrying the \"pasos\" or processions. All these \"pasos\" are formed by at least one sculpture, most of the time hundreds of years old. They are carried on shoulders as nowhere else in Andalusia, all porters uncovered (unlike the Seville way) and at the same level (unlike the Málaga way). The way processions are carried in Lucena is called \"santería\", and it is a particular trait to the city. Santería can best be appreciated on Easter Thursday (Jueves Santo) where 9 \"pasos\" take the streets. Not to be missed are the Cristo de la Columna, by most renowned sculptor Pedro Roldán, created in 1675, and the impressive Cristo de la Sangre, brought from the Spanish Americas in the beginning of the 17th century.\n\nBest Semana Santa days in Lucena are Palm Sunday (5), Tuesday (7), Thursday (9) and Saturday (1).\n\nPalm Sunday sees 5 \"pasos\" on the streets belonging to 3 different congregations and churches. They come together at a certain point creating a single procession. Palm Sunday highlights the Cristo de la Bondad and the Oración en el Huerto and the Madonna de la Estrella.\n\nMonday is all consecrated to one only congregation (cofradía), that of the Franciscan brothers. The \"pasos\" have their quarters at a very pretty Franciscan convent in downtown Lucena. Highlights this day are the \"trono\" (platform in which the sculptures are carried) of the venerated Medinaceli Christ, and the Virgen de Piedra, a Madonna like that of Michelangelo in the Vatican in Rome.\n\nTuesday sees 3 different congregations and 7 different \"pasos\" on the streets of Lucena. First one, the Carmine congregation, founded in 1606 with 3 very old, historical and peculiar \"pasos\" leaving from the Carmen church in Southern Lucena. Not to be missed the \"Virgen de los Dolores\", of the old school of Granada sculptures, as well as the \"Señor de la Humildad\". This congregation is one of the oldest in the city and have kept the same traditions as they were centuries ago.\n\nThe two other congregations have their site in the very central St. Matthew's Cathedral, in Plaza Nueva. The Servitas congregation, founded in 1724 but most important, the \"Peace & Love\" congregation, starring the \"Madonna of Peace & Love\", one of the most beautiful, balanced and prettiest \"pasos\" all week as well as the \"Christ of Peace & Love\". Tuesday is really worth a visit.\n\nWednesday is currently the poorest day in Lucena. Only one congregation, that of \"El Valle\", and 2 \"pasos\" only on the streets. But this refers only until midnight arrives and \"Jueves Santo\" begins, the most complete and traditional day in Lucena.\n\nThursday at midnight at St. Matthew's Cathedral takes place one of the most awaited moments of all week: the \"Cristo del Silencio\" comes out from church in silence and with all lights shut down. A very special moment that builds the closest link between the Andalusian Holy Week tradition and that of Castilian background. The \"Cristo del Silencio\" is the closest experience to a Castilian procession you can have in Lucena. But this is just the start. In the early afternoon, the second congregations starts its procession from the very small \"Dios Padre\" chapel in Eastern Lucena. 3 very peculiar \"pasos\" compose this congregation, 2 of which are unique to Lucena: that of the \"Holy Faith Allegory\" and also that of \"Jesus washing St Peter's feet\".\n\nAnd now we come to the most awaited moment in the whole Easter Week tradition of Lucena. The most venerated and traditional \"paso\" is about to start its procession: the \"Cristo de la Columna\", by Pedro Roldán, comes out of St. Jacques church always punctual. The way this \"paso\" comes out, the way it is particularly carried, and all the \"saetas\" (flamenco-kind prayers that are sung as a virgin or christ is being processioned in Andalusia) that are sung during the whole evening-night are by themselves a reason to pay a visit to Lucena on that day. But this is not yet finished. The \"Cristo de la Sangre\", one of the most serious, traditional, respected and historical \"paso\" there is in Lucena. Coming out of the St. Francis church in downtown Lucena. In total, there are 9 \"pasos\" on Thursday in Lucena. And best of all, they all come together in Alcaide street Las Torres (downtown) where they head for Plaza Nueva (Main Square) before taking El Peso street, where they finally separate.\n\nThursday and Good Friday traditionally come together. There are just a few hours without \"pasos\" on the street since those of Thursday come back to church at 2:30 am and the next one, Nazareno Christ comes out at 6:00 am. Nazareno congregation is composed of 6 \"pasos\". The Nazareno itself is a very old and very much venerated sculpture of Renaissance style. The congregation was founded in 1599, one of the oldest in town. It has also kept the good old flavors of the past.\n\nSaturday, there is only one congregation and one paso with it. The \"Soledad\". This congregation is the oldest one in Lucena, formed in 1564. Very pretty procession, well organized, balanced and serious.\n\nSunday, as usual, the \"Resurrection\" congregation puts an end to a whole week of celebrations.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1812750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812750", "title": "Galang Island", "text": "Galang Island\n\nGalang (Indonesian: Pulau Galang) is an island of 80 km located 25 mi (40 km) southeast of Batam, belonging to a group of three islands called Barelang (an abbreviation of Batam-Rempang-Galang). Part of the Riau Archipelago, Indonesia, Galang is located just south of Batam and Rempang which themselves are just south of Singapore and Johor. The nearest city to Galang is Tanjung Pinang on Bintan, about a 30-minute boat ride away. The island is connected by the Barelang Bridge to Rempang and Batam.\n\nThere was a UNHCR administration office established in Galang to run the Galang Refugee Camp during the 1979-1996 period. Many Vietnamese Boat People and asylum seekers were temporarily accommodated in the Galang camp during the determination of their refugee status and their subsequent resettlement in the United States, Australia, and some European countries. Many Vietnamese from their new resettled countries have come back to visit Galang.\n\nToday, Galang Island (and the former refugee area known as \"Sinam Camp\") is managed by Batam Industrial Development Authority (BIDA). In 1992 according to Indonesian Presidential Decree No. 28/1992, the expanded BIDA Working Area includes Rempang Island, Galang Island and several small nearby islands. BIDA built 6 bridges which were inaugurated on 25 January 1998. They provide a land connection between Batam Island - Tonton Island - Nipah Island - Setoko Island - Rempang Island - Galang Island - Galang Baru (New Galang) Island in order to develop all these islands.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1812756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812756", "title": "Boat of Garten", "text": "Boat of Garten\n\nBoat of Garten (; originally: Garten) is a small village and post town in Badenoch and Strathspey, Highland, Scotland. In 1951, the population was less than 400; in 1971, it was almost 500; in 1981, it was almost 700, and the same in 2001.\n\nThe name of the settlement refers to the nearby site of the old ferry over the River Spey. However, Pont's map of 1600 and Roy's map of 1750 named the location simply \"Garten\".\n\nIt is also known as \"Osprey village\" due to its significant population of Ospreys.\n\nBoat of Garten is located between Aviemore and Grantown-on-Spey. It lies to the northeast of Aviemore, just north of Auchgourish and east of Kinveachy. Grantown is away. Loch Garten lies to the southeast of the village.\n\nSituated at an altitude of above sea level, it lies from the River Spey in the Cairngorms National Park. Being close to the Cairngorm Mountains. it is in view of the Lairig Ghru and the northern Braeriach corries.\n\nThe area between Boat of Garten and Loch Garten is within the Abernethy Forest National Nature Reserve, Boat of Garten being on the forest fringe.\n\n\"Alyssum alyssoides\", \"Cerastium arvense\", \"Vaccinium vitis-idaea\" and \"Koeleria macrantha\" are found in the village, as are \"Juniperus communis\", \"Arctostaphylos uva-ursi\", \"Empetrum nigrum\" and \"Ptilium crista-castrensis\". Rare fungi include \"Amanita virosa\", \"Leucocortinarius bulbiger\", \"Pholiota spumosa\", \"Tapinella atrotomentosa\", \"Cantharellula umbonata\", \"Sarcodon imbricatus\", \"Dentipellis fragilis\" and \"Hydnellum scrobiculatum\".\n\nSt Columba's Church was built in the summer of 1900 at a cost of £820, and the church hall was added in 1934.\n\nAfter the Disruption of 1843, the men of the area engaged in a fanaticism, erecting the \"Stone of the Spey\" below Boat of Garten. The stone was inscribed by one William Grant and was erected in 1865 in memory of the wife of Patrick Grant. As it was associated with scandal, the district residents destroyed it and threw it into the river.\n\nThe village is also renowned for the nearby RSPB reserve at Loch Garten, approximately to the east.\n\nThe village features a golf course, originally designed by James Braid. Built in 1898, it was expanded in 1931. it has been ranked as one of the top 35 courses in Scotland.\n\nThe Community Company created a garden in 2002 and in 2013 two sculptures and an information hub commissioned by the community were installed in the Station Square, adjacent to the Community Garden.\n\n"}
{"id": "1812763", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812763", "title": "Non-voting stock", "text": "Non-voting stock\n\nNon-voting stock is stock that provides the shareholder very little or no vote on corporate matters, such as election of the board of directors or mergers. This type of share is usually implemented for individuals who want to invest in the company's profitability and success at the expense of voting rights in the direction of the company. Preferred stock typically has non-voting qualities.\n\nMany countries such as Germany, Russia, the United Kingdom and other commonwealth realms have laws or policies against multiple/non-voting stock. In the US, not all corporations offer voting stock and non-voting stock, nor do all stocks usually have equal voting power. Warren Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway corporation has two classes of stocks, Class A voting stock () and Class B non-voting stock (). The Class B stock carries 1/10,000th of the voting rights of the Class A stock, but 1/1,500th of the dividend.\n\nNon-voting stock may also thwart hostile takeover attempts. If the founders of a company maintain all of the voting stock and sell non-voting stock only to the public, takeover attempts are unlikely. They may occur only if the founders are willing to tender an offer by an unfriendly bidder.\n\nThere are consequences to not releasing voting rights to common shareholders; these include fewer supplicants for a friendly takeover, displeased shareholders as a result of the corporation's limited growth potential, and difficulty finding bidders for additional non-voting shares in the market. Although this is debatable, since all publicly traded companies have their common shares in the open market for anyone to purchase. Examples include Tencent buying 12% now 17% equity (non-voting stake) in Snap Inc. And Investment, and tender offers.\n\n"}
{"id": "1812774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812774", "title": "Kerepesi Cemetery", "text": "Kerepesi Cemetery\n\nKerepesi Cemetery (Hungarian: \"Kerepesi úti temető\" or \"Kerepesi temető\", official name: \"Fiumei úti nemzeti sírkert\", i.e. \"Fiume Road National Graveyard\") is the most famous cemetery in Budapest. It is one of the oldest cemeteries in Hungary which has been almost completely preserved as an entity.\n\nFounded in 1847, Kerepesi is located in outer Józsefváros, near Keleti pályaudvar (Eastern Railway Station), and can be reached via Budapest Metro line 2. It is the innermost cemetery of Budapest, although it still lies about 2 km from the downtown centre. Kerepesi is one of the biggest National Pantheons in Europe and the biggest outdoor statue park with its area of about 56 hectares. It is sometimes referred to as the Père Lachaise of Budapest.\n\nThe cemetery's first burial took place some two years after its opening, in 1849. Since then numerous Hungarian notables (statesmen, writers, sculptors, architects, artists, composers, scientists, actors and actresses etc.) have been interred there, several of them in ornate tombs or mausoleums. This was encouraged by the decision of the municipal authorities to declare Kerepesi a 'ground of honour' in 1885. The first notable burial was that of Mihály Vörösmarty in 1855.\n\nUntil the 1940s, several tombs were removed to this cemetery from others in Budapest – for example, it is the fourth resting place of the poet Attila József.\n\nThe cemetery was declared closed for burials in 1952. This was partly because it had become damaged during World War II, and partly for political reasons, as the Communist government sought to play down the graves of those who had 'exploited the working class'. At one point it was intended to build a housing estate over the cemetery. Part of the grounds were in fact handed over to a nearby rubber factory and were destroyed in 1953.\n\nIn 1958, a Mausoleum for the Labour movement was created by Olcsai-Kiss Zoltán. During the Communist period (which lasted from 1948 till 1989 in Hungary) this was the only part of the cemetery highlighted or even mentioned by the authorities. After the fall of communism, Kerepesi was still considered by some as a Communist cemetery (for example a son of Béla Bartók forbade his father's ashes to be interred there).\n\nThe cemetery, with its extended parks among the graves and monuments, is today open to the public, but interments have ceased.\n\nThe Salgotarjani Street Jewish Cemetery is actually the eastern corner of the Kerepesi Cemetery, but it is separated from it by a stone wall.\n\nIn summer 2007, some of the filming for The Boy in the Striped Pyjamas (film) was completed at the cemetery.\n\nIn 1874, a special parcel was established for those who were denied a church funeral (those who committed suicide and those executed).\n\nThe cemetery is also famous for its Arcades, built between 1908–1911, recalling the style of Northern Italian cemeteries.\n\nThe artists' sector – in which each tomb contains a notable Hungarian representative of the arts – was created in 1929.\n\nKerepesi contains three mausoleums of leading Hungarian statesmen:\n\nThere is also a notable mausoleum for Ábrahám Ganz (iron-founder, pioneer in Hungarian heavy industry), built to the plans of Miklós Ybl in 1868.\n\nOther notables include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1812783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812783", "title": "Lysis of Taras", "text": "Lysis of Taras\n\nLysis of Taras (; ; fl. c. 5th-century BC) was a Greek philosopher. His life is obscure. He was said to have been a friend and disciple of Pythagoras. After the persecution of the Pythagoreans at Croton and Metapontum he escaped and went to Thebes, where he became the teacher of Epaminondas, by whom he was held in the highest esteem. There are, however, serious chronological difficulties with his being both a disciple of Pythagoras and the teacher of Epaminondas. Some of the commentators and doxographers have failed to distinguish between the two different anti-pythagorean revolutions: the first one around -500, when Pythagoras himself died, and the second one fifty years later. This could clarify the source of the chronological incoherence.\n\nLysis was credited as the actual author of a work which was attributed to Pythagoras himself. Diogenes Laërtius quotes from an undoubtedly spurious letter from Lysis to Hippasus as an authority for some statements concerning Damo.\n"}
{"id": "1812794", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812794", "title": "Eileen Herlie", "text": "Eileen Herlie\n\nEileen Herlie (March 8, 1918 – October 8, 2008) was a Scottish-American actress.\n\nEileen Herlie was born Eileen Isobel Herlihy to an Irish Catholic father, Patrick Herlihy, and a Scottish Protestant mother, Isobel Cowden, in Glasgow, Scotland, and was one of five children. She attended Shawlands Academy, on the city's southside. Herlie was trained as a theatre actress. Among her West End London theatre successes were \"The Eagle Has Two Heads\" by Jean Cocteau. She was married twice, to Philip Barrett (m 1942) and Witold Kuncewicz (m 1951), both marriages ending in divorce. She had no children.\nIn 1955 she moved permanently to the United State, where she lived and worked for the last fifty-three years of her life.\n\nAgainst the wishes of her parents, she chose to become an actress when she joined the non-professional touring company Scottish National Players in 1938. She subsequently toured with the semi-professional Rutherglen Repertory Company. In 1942 she moved to England to work as a professional actress.\n\nHer first role in the London theatre in 1942 was as the second Mrs de Winter in Daphne du Maurier's stage adaptation of her own novel Rebecca.\n\nIn 1945, at the Shakespeare Memorial Theatre in Stratford-upon-Avon she played the role of Gertrude for the first of three times, opposite the Hamlet of Peter Glenville, who also directed the production. At 27 she was four years younger than her 31-year-old stage son.\n\nIn 1946 she made her first film appearance, playing the supporting role of Katherine in an adaptation by Daphne du Maurier of her own novel Hungry Hill.\n\nIn the same year, Sir Alexander Korda placed her under contract to his London Films company. However, she would make only two films for him: The Angel with the Trumpet in 1949 and The Story of Gilbert and Sullivan in 1952. Her remaining three British films - Isn't Life Wonderful!, shot in 1952, For Better, for Worse, shot in 1954, and She Didn't Say No, shot in 1957 - were made for the Associated British Picture Corporation (ABPC). In 1951 she made her first television appearance in the leading role of Regina in a BBC TV adaptation of Lillian Hellman's stage play The Little Foxes.\n\nHerlie's first big film break was being cast by Laurence Olivier in his screen adaptation of William Shakespeare's \"Hamlet\", shot in 1947. She played Hamlet's mother, Gertrude, for the second time. On this occasion, at 29, she was eleven years younger than her 40-year-old stage son (Olivier).\n\nHerlie played Gertrude again, for the third and final time, in the 1964 Broadway production starring Richard Burton, and also in the 1964 film version of the production. At 46 she was now older than her stage son (Burton), who was 38 - but only by eight years.\n\nHerlie's other American film appearances in the 1960s were roles in \"\" (1962), and \"The Sea Gull\" (1968), the first major film version in English of Anton Chekhov's celebrated play. (The second was her last feature film.)\n\nIn 1955, Herlie made her Broadway debut as Irene Molloy in \"The Matchmaker\" (which was later made into the musical \"Hello, Dolly!\"). In 1960, she was nominated for a Tony Award as 'Best Actress in a Musical' for \"Take Me Along\", an adaptation of Eugene O'Neill's \"Ah, Wilderness!\", in which she played opposite Jackie Gleason. In 1962, she co-starred with Ray Bolger in \"All American\", where they sang \"Once Upon a Time\". Also on Broadway, she appeared in \"Photo Finish\" (1963) and \"Halfway Up the Tree\" (1967), both written by Peter Ustinov, and \"Crown Matrimonial\", in which she played Queen Mary (1973). She had previously played Queen Mary in the 1972 made-for-television film \"The Woman I Love\", starring Richard Chamberlain as Edward VIII and Faye Dunaway as Wallis Simpson. When \"Crown Matrimonial\" was telecast on the Hallmark Hall of Fame in 1974, however, the role of Queen Mary went to film actress Greer Garson.\n\nIn 1976, Herlie made the move to television soap operas in the role of Myrtle Fargate on \"All My Children\", playing the role for virtually the rest of her life. In the 1980s, Herlie was nominated for three consecutive Daytime Emmy Awards (1984, 1985 and 1986). She became close friends with fellow cast member Louis Edmonds, and spoke at his funeral in 2001. Until the late 1990s, Herlie was one of the few actresses to portray the same character on three different soaps. In 1993, she portrayed Myrtle on the \"All My Children\" sister-soap \"Loving\". In December 2000, she began portraying Myrtle in crossover appearances on the soap opera \"One Life to Live\", where a 'Who's the Daddy?' storyline was playing out on all four ABC soaps (\"All My Children\", \"One Life to Live\", \"General Hospital\" and the now-cancelled \"Port Charles\").\n\nOn October 8, 2008, at the age of 90, Eileen Herlie died of complications from pneumonia.\n\nOn December 19, 2008, \"All My Children\" dedicated the episode to Herlie and her character Myrtle by having the characters closest to Myrtle celebrate her life in a room named after her. Toward the end, Agnes Nixon, \"All My Children's\" creator, entered and blew a kiss toward Myrtle's portrait.\n\nDaytime Emmy Award nominations\nTony Award nominations \n\n"}
{"id": "1812799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812799", "title": "Giulia Gam", "text": "Giulia Gam\n\nGiulia Daysi Gam (born December 28, 1966) is a Brazilian actress.\n\nGiulia was born in Perugia when her father, José Carlos Gam Heuss, was taking a course. She has a Danish grandfather.\n\nShe became famous in Brazil after performing the young Jocasta Silveira in the soap opera \"Mandala\" and since then started a meteoric career in television, despite being one of the most seminal thespians of Brazil.\nGiulia's biography registers a respectable stage career, from which she was chosen for her debut in Rede Globo, Giulia played the character Jocasta, when young, in the telenovela Mandala (the adult Jocasta was portrayed by actress Vera Fischer). Giulia came to the telenovela without any experience in television, other than some ads and videos made by friends from an independent film company. She carried out four years of exhaustive and obsessive work in theatre. In the stage, Giulia debuted under direction of Antunes Filho, in the Shakespeare's play Romeo and Juliet, in São Paulo, in 1984.\n\nWith Antunes Filho's company she travelled in a long tour by Australia, Europe, U.S. and Israel. After it dissolved, she travelled to Paris, where she found Peter Brook, who motivated her to go on with her stage career.\n\nIn January 1987, back to Brazil, Giulia joined the cast of the Jean Racine play Phèdre, invited by actress Fernanda Montenegro. In October of the same year, she debuted in TV, with a huge success.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1812809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812809", "title": "Pseudorandom generator", "text": "Pseudorandom generator\n\nIn theoretical computer science and cryptography, a pseudorandom generator (PRG) for a class of statistical tests is a deterministic procedure that maps a random seed to a longer pseudorandom string such that no statistical test in the class can distinguish between the output of the generator and the uniform distribution. The random seed is typically a short binary string drawn from the uniform distribution.\n\nMany different classes of statistical tests have been considered in the literature, among them the class of all Boolean circuits of a given size.\nIt is not known whether good pseudorandom generators for this class exist, but it is known that their existence is in a certain sense equivalent to (unproven) circuit lower bounds in computational complexity theory.\nHence the construction of pseudorandom generators for the class of Boolean circuits of a given size rests on currently unproven hardness assumptions.\n\nLet formula_1 be a class of functions.\nThese functions are the \"statistical tests\" that the pseudorandom generator will try to fool, and they are usually algorithms.\nSometimes the statistical tests are also called \"adversaries\" or \"distinguishers\".\n\nA function formula_2 with formula_3 is a \"pseudorandom generator\" against formula_4 with \"bias\" formula_5 if, for every formula_6 in formula_4, the statistical distance between the distributions formula_8 and formula_9 is at most formula_5, where formula_11 is the uniform distribution on formula_12.\n\nThe quantity formula_13 is called the \"seed length\" and the quantity formula_14 is called the \"stretch\" of the pseudorandom generator.\n\nA pseudorandom generator against a family of adversaries formula_15 with bias formula_16 is a family of pseudorandom generators formula_17, where formula_18 is a pseudorandom generator against formula_19 with bias formula_16 and seed length formula_21.\n\nIn most applications, the family formula_4 represents some model of computation or some set of algorithms, and one is interested in designing a pseudorandom generator with small seed length and bias, and such that the output of the generator can be computed by the same sort of algorithm.\n\nIn cryptography, the class formula_4 usually consists of all circuits of size polynomial in the input and with a single bit output, and one is interested in designing pseudorandom generators that are computable by a polynomial-time algorithm and whose bias is negligible in the circuit size.\nThese pseudorandom generators are sometimes called cryptographically secure pseudorandom generators (CSPRGs).\n\nIt is not known if cryptographically secure pseudorandom generators exist.\nProving that they exist is difficult since their existence implies P ≠ NP, which is widely believed but a famously open problem.\nThe existence of cryptographically secure pseudorandom generators is widely believed as well and they are necessary for many applications in cryptography.\n\nThe pseudorandom generator theorem shows that cryptographically secure pseudorandom generators exist if and only if one-way functions exist.\n\nPseudorandom generators have numerous applications in cryptography. For instance, pseudorandom generators provide an efficient analog of one-time pads. It is well known that in order to encrypt a message \"m\" in a way that the cipher text provides no information on the plaintext, the key \"k\" used must be random over strings of length |m|. Perfectly secure encryption is very costly in terms of key length. Key length can be significantly reduced using a pseudorandom generator if perfect security is replaced by semantic security. Common constructions of stream ciphers are based on pseudorandom generators.\n\nPseudorandom generators may also be used to construct symmetric key cryptosystems, where a large number of messages can be safely encrypted under the same key. Such a construction can be based on a pseudorandom function family, which generalizes the notion of a pseudorandom generator.\n\nIn the 1980s, simulations in physics began to use pseudorandom generators to produce sequences with billions of elements, and by the late 1980s, evidence had developed that a few common generators gave incorrect results in such cases as phase transition properties of the 3D Ising model and shapes of diffusion-limited aggregates. Then in the 1990s, various idealizations of physics simulations—based on random walks, correlation functions, localization of eigenstates, etc., were used as tests of pseudorandom generators.\n\nNIST announced SP800-22 Randomness tests to test whether a pseudorandom generator produces high quality random bits. Yongge Wang showed that NIST testing is not enough to detect weak pseudorandom generators and developed statistical distance based testing technique LILtest.\n\nA main application of pseudorandom generators lies in the derandomization of computation that relies on randomness, without corrupting the result of the computation.\nPhysical computers are deterministic machines, and obtaining true randomness can be a challenge.\nPseudorandom generators can be used to efficiently simulate randomized algorithms with using little or no randomness.\nIn such applications, the class formula_4 describes the randomized algorithm or class of randomized algorithms that one wants to simulate, and the goal is to design an \"efficiently computable\" pseudorandom generator against formula_4 whose seed length is as short as possible.\nIf a full derandomization is desired, a completely deterministic simulation proceeds by replacing the random input to the randomized algorithm with the pseudorandom string produced by the pseudorandom generator.\nThe simulation does this for all possible seeds and averages the output of the various runs of the randomized algorithm in a suitable way.\n\nA fundamental question in computational complexity theory is whether all polynomial time randomized algorithms for decision problems can be deterministically simulated in polynomial time. The existence of such a simulation would imply that BPP = P. To perform such a simulation, it is sufficient to construct pseudorandom generators against the family F of all circuits of size \"s\"(\"n\") whose inputs have length \"n\" and output a single bit, where \"s\"(\"n\") is an arbitrary polynomial, the seed length of the pseudorandom generator is O(log \"n\") and its bias is ⅓.\n\nIn 1991, Noam Nisan and Avi Wigderson provided a candidate pseudorandom generator with these properties. In 1997 Russell Impagliazzo and Avi Wigderson proved that the construction of Nisan and Wigderson is a pseudorandom generator assuming that there exists a decision problem that can be computed in time 2 on inputs of length \"n\" but requires circuits of size 2.\n\nWhile unproven assumption about circuit complexity are needed to prove that the Nisan–Wigderson generator works for time-bounded machines, it is natural to restrict the class of statistical tests further such that we need not rely on such unproven assumptions.\nOne class for which this has been done is the class of machines whose work space is bounded by formula_26.\nUsing a repeated squaring trick known as Savitch's theorem, it is easy to show that every probabilistic log-space computation can be simulated in space formula_27.\nNoam Nisan (1992) showed that this derandomization can actually be achieved with a pseudorandom generator of seed length formula_27 that fools all formula_26-space machines.\nNisan's generator has been used by Saks and Zhou (1999) to show that probabilistic log-space computation can be simulated deterministically in space formula_30.\nThis result is still the best known derandomization result for general log-space machines in 2012.\n\nWhen the statistical tests consist of all multivariate linear functions over some finite field formula_31, one speaks of epsilon-biased generators.\nThe construction of achieves a seed length of formula_32, which is optimal up to constant factors.\nPseudorandom generators for linear functions often serve as a building block for more complicated pseudorandom generators.\n\n proves that taking the sum of formula_33 small-bias generators fools polynomials of degree formula_33.\nThe seed length is formula_35.\n\nConstant depth circuits that produce a single output bit.\n\nThe pseudorandom generators used in cryptography and universal algorithmic derandomization have not been proven to exist, although their existence is widely believed. Proofs for their existence would imply proofs of lower bounds on the circuit complexity of certain explicit functions. Such circuit lower bounds cannot be proved in the framework of natural proofs assuming the existence of stronger variants of cryptographic pseudorandom generators.\n\n"}
{"id": "1812811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812811", "title": "Tappet", "text": "Tappet\n\nA tappet is most commonly a component in an internal combustion engine which converts the rotating motion of the camshaft into linear motion of the valves, either directly or indirectly. \n\nAn earlier use of the term was for part of the valve gear in Beam engines beginning in 1715. The term is also used for components in pneumatic cylinders and weaving loom.\n\nThe first recorded use of the term tappet is as part of the valve gear in the 1715 Newcomen engine, an early form of steam engine. Early versions of the Newcomen engines from 1712 had manually operated valves, but by 1715 this repetitive task had been automated through the use of tappets. The beam of the engine had a vertical 'plug rod' hung from it, alongside the cylinder. Adjustable blocks or 'tappets' were attached to this rod and as the beam moved up and down, the tappets pressed against long levers or 'horns' attached to the engine's valves, working the cycle of steam and injection water valves to operate the engine. \n\nThis operation by tappets on a plug rod continued into the early twentieth century with the Cornish engine.\n\nFrom the 19th century onwards, most steam engines used slide valves or piston valves, which do not require the use of tappets.\nIn an internal combustion engine, a tappet (also called a 'valve lifter' or 'cam follower') is the component which converts the rotation of the camshaft into vertical motion which opens and closes the intake or exhaust valve. The types of valve lifters (i.e. tappets) commonly used by automotive engines are solid lifters, hydraulic lifters and roller lifters.\n\nAn alternative to the tappet is the 'finger follower', which is a pivoting beam that is used to convert the camshaft rotation into opening and closing of a valve. Finger followers are used in some high-performance dual overhead camshaft engines (instead of bucket tappets), most commonly in motorcycles and sports cars.\n\nTo reduce wear from the rotating camshaft, the tappets were usually circular and allowed, or even encouraged, to rotate. This avoided grooves developing from the same point of the tappet always running on the same point of the camshaft. However, in some relatively small engines with many cylinders (such as the Daimler '250' V8 engine), the tappets were small and non-rotating. \n\nMost 'flat' tappets (i.e. without rollers) usually contain a slight radius which creates a subtle mushroom-shaped surface, since a perfectly flat surface leads to 'slamming' against a steep camshaft face. \n\nA common, yet imprecise, use of the term 'tappet' is the engine maintenance task referred to as \"adjusting the tappets\" in an overhead valve (OHV) engine, which was a widely used engine configuration between the 1940s and the 1990s. The task involves adjusting the clearance of tappet from the camshaft, however the adjustment is not actualy made to the tappets themselves. \n\nOn most OHV engines, the adjustment was made by turning a screw set in the end of the rocker that pressed on the end of the pushrod. With the engine rotated to give the widest gap between the camshaft and a particular tappet, the rocker screw was adjusted until this gap was at the correct spacing, as measured with the use of a feeler gauge. If the gap was too wide, this could result in an audible 'tappet rattle' from the rocker cover. If the gap was too narrow, this could result in engine damage such as bent pushrods or burnt valves. The adjusting screw was locked by a locknut. Failure of the locknut to hold the adjustment in place could cause catastrophic engine failure, which has led to fatal aircraft crashes.\n\nOn some OHV engines in the 1960s, such as the Ford Taunus V4 engine and Opel CIH engine, the tappet adjustment was done by setting the height of the rocker pivot point (rather than the typical method of a rocker-end adjustment screw). On the 1965-1970 versions of the Opel CIH engine with solid tappets, the tappet adjustment was conducted with the engine running.\n\nA hydraulic tappet, also known as a \"hydraulic lash adjuster\", contains a small hydraulic piston that becomes filled with pressurised engine oil. the piston acts as a hydraulic spring that automatically adjusts the tappet clearance according to the oil pressure. Although the movements of the piston are small and infrequent, they are sufficient to make the valve actuation self-adjusting so that there is no need to manually adjust the clearance of the tappets.\n\nHydraulic tappets depend on a supply of clean oil at the appropriate pressure. When starting a cold engine, with low oil pressure, hydraulic tappets are often noisy for a few seconds, until they position themselves correctly.\n\nEarly automotive engines used a roller at the contact point with the camshaft, however as engine speeds increased, 'flat tappets' with plain ends became far more common than tappets with rollers. Some modern high-performance automotive engines use roller tappets, in order to use a camshaft with a steeper profile.\n\nIn a sidevalve engine— a common design for car engines until the 1950s— the valves are mounted at the sides of the cylinder and face upwards. This means that the camshaft could be placed directly beneath the valves, without the need for a rocker. With lower cylinder blocks, the tappets could drive the valves directly without needing even a push rod.\n\nSidevalve engines also required regular adjustment of the tappet clearance, and in this case it was the tappets themselves that were adjusted directly. Small access plates were provided on the sides of the cylinder block, giving access to the gap between the valves and tappets. Some tappets had a threaded adjuster, but simpler engines could be adjusted by grinding down the ends of the valve stem directly. As the tappet adjustment always consisted of expanding the clearance (re-grinding valves into their valve seats during de-coking makes them sit lower, thus reducing the tappet clearance), adjustment by shortening the valve stems was a viable method. Eventually the valves would be replaced entirely, a relatively common operation for engines of this era.\n\nIn an overhead valve engine, the tappets are located down in the engine block and operate long, thin pushrods which transfer the motion (via the rocker arms) to the valves located at the top of the engine. \n\nIn a single overhead camshaft (SOHC) engine, the tappets are located at the top of the cylinder head and usually operate the valves indirectly via rocker arms.\n\nMass-production of SOHC engines for passenger cars became more common in the 1970s, in the form of crossflow cylinder heads with a overhead rockers located directly beneath a single overhead camshaft, as a more efficient design which could be cost-effectively manufactured. The 1970-2001 Ford Pinto engine was one of the first mass-production engines to use an SOHC design with a toothed cambelt. In this configuration, the rockers combined the function of sliding tappet, rocker and adjustment device. Adjustment of the valve clearance was usually by a threaded pivot stud beneath the rocker. The linear sliding tappets often had a high rate of wear and demanded careful lubrication.\n\nA relatively uncommon design of an SOHC camshaft with four valves per cylinder was first used in the 1973-1980 Triumph Dolomite Sprint inline-four engine, which used a camshaft with 8 lobes that actuated the 16 valves via a clever arrangement of rocker arms.\n\nDouble overhead camshaft (DOHC) engines were first developed as high performance aircraft and racing engines, with the camshafts mounted directly over the valves and driving them through a simple 'bucket tappet'. Most engines used a crossflow cylinder head with the valves in two rows in line with their corresponding camshaft.\n\nThe tappet clearance adjustment is typically set using a small shim, located either above or below the tappet. Shims were made in a range of standard thicknesses and a mechanic would swap them to change the tappet gap. In early DOHC engines, the engine would first be assembled with a default shim of known thickness, then the gap measured. This measurement would be used to calculate the thickness of shim that would result in the desired gap. After installation of the new shim, the gaps would then be measured again to verify that the clearance was correct. As the camshaft had to be removed to change the shims, this was an very time consuming operation (especially since the position of the camshaft could vary slightly each time it was re-installed). \n\nLater engines used an improved design where the shims were located above the tappets, which allowed each shim to be changed without removing either the tappet or camshaft. A drawback of this design is that the rubbing surface of the tappet becomes the surface of the shim, which is a difficult problem of mass-production metallurgy. The first mass production engine to use this system was the 1966-2000 Fiat Twin Cam engine, followed by engines from Volvo and the water-cooled Volkswagens.\n\nThe term 'tappet' is also used, obscurely, as a component of valve systems for other machinery, particularly as part of a bash valve in pneumatic cylinders. Where a reciprocating action is produced, such as for a pneumatic drill or jackhammer, the valve may be actuated by inertia or by the movement of the working piston. As the piston hammers back and forth, it impacts a small tappet, which in turn moves the air valve and so reverses the flow of air to the piston.\n\nIn weaving looms, a tappet is a mechanism which helps form the shed or opening in the warp threads (long direction) of the material through\nwhich the weft threads (side to side or short direction) are passed. The tappets form the basic patterns in the material such as plain weave, twill, denim, or satin weaves. Harris tweed is still woven on looms in which tappets are still used.\n"}
{"id": "1812826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812826", "title": "Selwyn House School", "text": "Selwyn House School\n\nSelwyn House School (SHS) is a private independent boys' school located in Westmount, Quebec. Boys can attend from Kindergarten through to Grade 11. The school was founded in 1908 by Englishman Captain Algernon Lucas. The school is named in honour of Selwyn College, University of Cambridge, which Algernon Lucas attended.\n\nStudents are divided into four houses, which serve intramural athletics purposes within the primary school. The houses, named after the first four headmasters of the school, are Lucas (yellow), Macaulay (red), Wanstall (green) and Speirs (blue). The Selwyn House Gryphons have fielded strong athletic teams in recent decades and their traditional rivals in sports are Lower Canada College and Loyola High School.\n\nDespite charging one of the highest tuition fees in Quebec, Selwyn House also chooses to receive subsidies from the provincial government which is available to all private schools for Grade 7 to 11. This means all students in the secondary school section must have a certificate of eligibility allowing them to attend government-funded English schools in Quebec in accordance with Bill 101.\n\nIn 1908, the English-speaking elite of Montreal were in need of a suitable preparatory school, and British Captain Algernon Lucas was seeking a teaching career in Canada. A graduate of Selwyn College, Cambridge University, he was given the job of educating seven boys. Within two years, the school had to move from Lucas' Crescent Street apartment to a larger house on Mackay Street. In 1912, Lucas turned to the business world and Colin Macaulay, who had been a classmate of Lucas at Selwyn College, replaced him as headmaster.\n\nSelwyn House quickly grew in size and relocated two more times. Its aim was to provide a solid grounding in basic subjects, and to equip boys for the boarding schools from which they would proceed to university. The school was modeled after English preparatory schools, and the staff was largely recruited from the United Kingdom. Under the leadership of Dr. Robert Speirs, headmaster from 1945 to 1971 and after whom the Speirs Medal is named, the reputation of the school grew significantly. In the 1940s, the students who attended the school were overwhelmingly Protestant with the notable exception of sons of the Bronfman family, who were Jewish.\n\nIn 1985, William Mitchell became the headmaster. The school's needs and demands for added facilities reached a point where one building was no longer sufficient. When St. Andrew's United Church across the street closed, Selwyn House purchased and renovated it, and it is now known as the Macaulay Building. In 1999, the school underwent substantial renovations in its three main buildings on campus. In 2002, the school built the Speirs Building which housed a new double-sized gym, a spacious high-tech library, numerous classrooms, offices and an agora for student assemblies and various other functions. This was followed by a massive renovation of the original Lucas Building, including converting its gymnasium into a large, modern dining hall and fully equipped auditorium, dubbed Coristine Hall.\n\nJonathan Kay, who attended the school in the 1980s, describes the student body as being predominantly white and anglophone when he was a student there with only three students of Asian descent in his grade. He also mentions the constant racial bullying of his French Canadian classmate and notes that it was more difficult back then to be a francophone than a Jewish or visible minority student. French has gradually been introduced to the school curriculum, and since 1999, elementary school students now spend 80 percent of the time learning in French from Kindergarten to Grade 2, and 50 percent from Grade 3 to 6. According to Kay, the school no longer resembles the one he attended and is now fully bilingual and racially diverse.\n\nIn January 2009, Hal Hannaford took over as the school's new headmaster after having previously served as the longtime headmaster of Royal St. George's College in Toronto. In Winter 2010, Selwyn House completed renovations of the aging Macaulay Building.\n\nIn June 2020, Hanniford will retire and be replaced by Mike Downey, a current teacher and coach at the school.\n\nIn September 2005, an alumnus of the school launched a lawsuit against Selwyn House claiming that he had been molested by a former teacher. Allegations regarding misconduct had been made in 1971, 1983, and again in 1991 when the school administration confronted the teacher. Soon after, the teacher killed his elderly father and then committed suicide. As a result, no further action on the issue was taken by the school administration.\n\nAllegations that two other former teachers, including John Aimers, had also abused students were filed as part of a class action lawsuit on February 3, 2006. The school agreed to a $5-M compensation fund in January 2009. The fund was approved by the Quebec Superior Court as a settlement for former students, their partners, and their parents. The allegations claimed that various teachers, none of whom were still present at the school, committed sexual abuse of over 30 minors during the 1970s to early 1980s.\n\nSelwyn House participates yearly in the Terry Fox Run, Shave to Save and Movember.\n\nSons of the Molson family have attended the school during every decade of Selwyn House's existence. Many members of the Bronfman family also attended the school.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1812828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812828", "title": "Powerboating", "text": "Powerboating\n\nPower boating describes activities performed in a motorized boat. Generally, a power boat has a high power-to-weight ratio and a hull design that allows for easy planing, which allows for higher speed and improved handling. Also, the shape of the actual boat is usually very streamlined, which minimizes air resistance and drag, therefore increasing speed. Power boats are used in yachting, waterskiing and wakeboarding.\n\nPowerboating is generally considered to have begun in 1863 when Frenchman Jean Lenoir used a petrol engine in the small boat. The first major race took place in 1903 across the English Channel and the sport appeared as an event in the 1908 Olympics.\n\nCurrently, P1 SuperStock is considered the most prestigious powerboat racing championship in the world.\n"}
{"id": "1812830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812830", "title": "Paul Saffo", "text": "Paul Saffo\n\nPaul Saffo (born 1954 in Los Angeles) is a technology forecaster based in Silicon Valley. A Consulting Professor in the School of Engineering at Stanford University, Saffo teaches courses on the future of engineering and the impact of technological change on the future. In 2008, Saffo was named Distinguished Visiting Scholar in the Stanford Media X research network.\n\nHe is also a board member of the Long Now Foundation. He has degrees from Harvard College, Cambridge University, and Stanford University.\n\nSaffo is the author of several books, including \"Dreams in Silicon Valley\" and \"The Road From Trinity\", and the introduction to \"E.B. White: Notes on our Times\".\n\nSaffo was a McKinsey Judge for the \"Harvard Business Review\" in 1997, and was named a \"Global Leader for Tomorrow\" by the World Economic Forum in the same year. Saffo is Chairman of the Samsung Science Board, and serves on a variety of other boards and advisory panels, including the Stanford Advisory Council on Science, Technology and Society. Paul Saffo is a member of the CuriosityStream Advisory Board.\n\nIn 2000, Saffo was elected Fellow of the Royal Swedish Academy of Engineering Sciences.\n\nPaul Saffo was initiated into the humorous \"Ancient and Honorable Order of E Clampus Vitus\" in 2009. He is the Chairman of the Most Important Committee.\n\n"}
{"id": "1812838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812838", "title": "The Thermals", "text": "The Thermals\n\nThe Thermals were an American indie rock band based in Portland, Oregon. The group was formed in 2002. With influences heavily rooted in both lo-fi, as well as standard rock, the band's songs are also known for their political and religious imagery.\n\nThe Thermals came together in 2002 with Hutch Harris and Kathy Foster, former band mates, and most notably in the folk duo Hutch & Kathy. Their first album, \"More Parts per Million\", was released in 2003 by Sub Pop Records. The album was recorded and performed entirely by Hutch Harris, who played every instrument. The first live line-up was Harris with Kathy Foster on bass, Jordan Hudson (also of M. Ward and The operacycle) on drums and Ben Barnett on guitar Their follow-up album \"Fuckin A\" was mixed by Death Cab For Cutie member Chris Walla. During that period Ben Barnett left the band and Hutch Harris took over the role as guitarist.\n\nTheir third album \"The Body, The Blood, The Machine\" won the group much recognition and acclaim, appearing on multiple top album lists for 2006 such as NPR, The AV Club and Pitchfork. Jordan Hudson dropped out of the band during the recording of their third album. Kathy Foster took over percussion duties in the recording studio, which Lorin Coleman performed on tour. The album was produced by Brendan Canty of Fugazi.\n\nThe Thermals' fourth album \"Now We Can See,\" was released on the label Kill Rock Stars and produced by John Congleton. Again, Foster worked as the percussionist on the album. Westin Glass joined the group as a drummer after the album was finished and is the current percussionist.\n\nThe Thermals fifth album, \"Personal Life\" was released September 7, 2010.\n\nThe Thermals' cover of the song \"Little Boxes\" was used as the opening song for \"Weeds\" season 8 episode 8, \"Five Miles From Yetzer Hara\" which aired on August 19, 2012, their song \"Here's Your Future\" from \"The Body, The Blood, The Machine\" having been previously used in the second episode of the third season (\"A Pool and his Money\" August 20, 2007).\n\nIn October 2012, former guitarist Joel Burrows died from complications from a car accident.\n\nOn January 31, 2013, The Thermals signed to Saddle Creek Records and planned to release their new album \"Desperate Ground\" on April 16, 2013. In March 2013, The Thermals were named one of Fuse TV's 30 must-see artists at SXSW.\n\nOn January 6, 2016, The Thermals announced the release of a new studio album titled \"We Disappear.\" It was released on March 25, 2016 via Saddle Creek records.\n\nOn April 9, 2018, the band announced that they were officially disbanding after 16 years.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1812839", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812839", "title": "Terry Hie Hie, New South Wales", "text": "Terry Hie Hie, New South Wales\n\nTerry Hie Hie is a very small farming town in the north of New South Wales, Australia within the Moree Plains Shire Council. Terry Hie Hie is south of the Gwydir Highway, east of the Newell Highway and 47 km south-east of Moree, the nearest large town.\n\nTycannah Creek also flows through the village of Terry Hie Hie. In times of flood, Tycannah Creek has been known to inundate some houses. This last happened during the November 2011 floods and the February 2012 floods. In February 2012 floods 12 people were ordered to evacuate from their homes during a large downpour in the Tycannah Creek catchment.\n\nLocal Aboriginal groups and conservationists were petitioning as recently as 2005 for a 160 square kilometre national park to be set aside and added to the schedule of Aboriginal ownership. The park would comprise seven existing State forests and one existing nature reserve. Logging ceased in the Mission State Forest during 2004. The area is seen as \"the last big bit of bush that Aboriginal people can connect with in the Moree area\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1812841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812841", "title": "Battle of Paris (1814)", "text": "Battle of Paris (1814)\n\nThe Battle of Paris was fought on March 30–31, 1814 between the Sixth Coalition, consisting of Russia, Austria, and Prussia, against the French Empire. After a day of fighting in the suburbs of Paris, the French surrendered on March 31, ending the War of the Sixth Coalition and forcing Emperor Napoleon to abdicate and go into exile.\n\nNapoleon was retreating from his failed invasion of Russia in 1812. With the Russian armies following up victory, the Sixth Coalition was formed with Russia, Austria, Prussia, Great Britain, Sweden, Spain and other nations hostile to the French Empire. Even though the French were victorious in the initial battles during their campaign in Germany, the Coalition armies eventually joined together and defeated them at the Battle of Leipzig in the autumn of 1813. After the battle, the Pro-French German Confederation of the Rhine collapsed, thereby loosening Napoleon's hold on Germany east of the Rhine. The supreme commander of the Coalition forces in the theatre and the paramount monarch among the three main Coalition monarchs, the Russian Tsar Alexander I, then ordered all Coalition forces in Germany to cross the Rhine and invade France.\n\nThe Coalition forces, numbering more than 400,000 and divided into three groups, finally entered northeastern France in January 1814. Facing them in the theatre were 70,000 Frenchmen, but they had the advantage of fighting in friendly territory, shorter supply lines, and more secure lines of communication.\n\nUtilizing his advantages, Napoleon defeated the divided Coalition forces in detail, starting with the battles at Brienne and La Rothière, but could not stop the latter's advance. He then launched his Six Days' Campaign against the Coalition army, under Blücher, threatening Paris to its northeast at the Aisne River. He successfully defeated and halted it, but Napoleon failed to seize the strategic initiative back in his favor, as Blücher's forces were still largely intact.\n\nThe Austrian emperor Francis I and King Frederick William III of Prussia felt demoralized upon hearing the setbacks brought about by Napoleon's victories since the start of the campaign. They even considered ordering a general retreat. But Tsar Alexander I was far more determined than ever to victoriously enter Paris whatever the cost, imposing his will upon Schwarzenberg and the wavering monarchs.\n\nMeanwhile, shifting his forces from the Aisne to this sector, Napoleon and his army engaged another Coalition army, under Schwarzenberg, which was also threatening Paris to its southeast near the Aube River, at the Battle of Arcis-sur-Aube on 20 March. He was successful in defeating this army, but it was not enough to halt it in time, as it later linked up with Blücher's army at Meaux on 28 March. After this, the Coalition forces advanced yet again towards Paris.\n\nUntil this battle it had been nearly 400 years since a foreign army had entered Paris, during the Hundred Years' War.\n\nSince the disaster in Russia and the start of the war, the French populace had been increasingly becoming war-weary. France had been exhausting itself at war for 25 years, and many of its men had died during the wars Napoleon had fought until then, making conscription there increasingly unpopular. Once the Coalition forces entered the country of France, the leaders were astonished and relieved upon seeing that against their expectations and fears the populace never staged a popular uprising against them, in the scale of the popular guerrilla war in Spain or Russia's patriotic resistance against the \"Grande Armée\" in 1812. Even Napoleon's own ex-foreign minister, Charles Maurice de Talleyrand, sent a letter to the Coalition monarchs stating that the Parisians were already becoming angry against their Emperor and would even welcome the Coalition armies if they were to enter the city.\n\nThe leaders of the Coalition decided that Paris, and not Napoleon himself, was now the main objective. For the plan, some generals proposed their respective plans, but one, that of the Russian general Toll, fitted precisely what Tsar Alexander I had in mind; attack Paris head-on with the main Coalition army while redirecting Napoleon as far away from the city as possible.\n\nThe Tsar intended to ride out to meet the Prussian king and Schwarzenberg. They met on a road leading directly to Paris and the Tsar proposed his intentions. He brought a map and spread it to the ground for all of them to see as they talked about the plan. The plan was for the entire main Coalition army to stop pursuing Napoleon and his army and instead march directly to Paris. The exception was Wintzingerode's 10,000-strong cavalry detachment and eight horse batteries which were to follow and mislead Napoleon that the Coalition army was still pursuing him southwards. As was usual, the king agreed as did Schwarzenberg. The main Coalition army began its march towards Paris on 28 March, and at the same day Wintzingerode's unit was now performing his task.\n\nThe deception campaign worked. While the main Coalition army attacked Paris, Wintzingerode's unit hotly pursued Napoleon and his rag-tag army to the southeast, but was later beaten back by the latter. However, by the time the emperor knew of the subterfuge, he was already too far away to the southeast of Paris, which by this time was now faced with Coalition forces. He would never reach the city in time, thus he also could not participate in the upcoming battle for the city.\n\nThe Austrian, Prussian and Russian armies were joined together and put under the command of Field Marshal Count Barclay de Tolly who would also be responsible for the taking of the city, but the driving force behind the army was the Tsar of Russia and the King of Prussia, moving with the army. The Coalition army totaled about 150,000 troops. Napoleon had left his brother Joseph Bonaparte in defense of Paris with about 23,000 regular troops under Marshal Auguste Marmont along with an additional 6,000 National Guards and a small force of the Imperial Guard under Marshals Bon Adrien Jeannot de Moncey and Édouard Mortier. Assisting the French were the incomplete trenches and other defenses in and around the city.\n\nThe Coalition army arrived outside Paris in late March. Nearing the city, Russian troops broke rank and ran forward to get their first glimpse of the city. Camping outside the city on March 29, the Coalition forces were to assault the city from its northern and eastern sides the next morning on March 30. The battle started that same morning with intense artillery bombardment from the Coalition army. Early in the morning the Coalition attack began when the Russians attacked and drove back the French skirmishers near Belleville before themselves driven back by French cavalry from the city's eastern suburbs. By 7:00 a.m. the Russians attacked the Young Guard near Romainville in the center of the French lines and after some time and hard fighting pushed them back. A few hours later the Prussians, under Blücher, attacked north of the city and carried the French position around Aubervilliers, but did not press their attack.\n\nThe Württemberg troops seized the positions at Saint-Maur to the southwest, with Austrian troops in support. The Russians attempted to press their attack but became caught up by trenches and artillery before falling back before a counterattack of the Imperial Guard. The Imperial Guard continued to hold back the Russians in the center until the Prussian forces appeared to their rear.\n\nThe Russian forces then assailed the Montmartre Heights in the city's northeast, where Joseph's headquarters had been at the beginning of the battle, which was defended by Brigadier-general Baron Christiani. Control of the heights was severely contested, and Joseph fled the city. Marmont contacted the Coalition and reached a secret agreement with them. Shortly afterwards, he marched his soldiers to a position where they were quickly surrounded by Coalition troops; Marmont then surrendered, as had been agreed.\n\nAlexander sent an envoy to meet with the French to hasten the surrender. He offered generous terms to the French and, although willing to avenge Moscow more than a year earlier, declared himself to be bringing peace to France rather than its destruction. On March 31 Talleyrand gave the key of the city to the Tsar. Later that day the Coalition armies triumphantly entered the city with the Tsar at the head of the army followed by the King of Prussia and Prince Schwarzenberg. On April 2, the Senate passed the \"Acte de déchéance de l'Empereur\", which declared Napoleon deposed.\n\nNapoleon had advanced as far as Fontainebleau when he heard that Paris had surrendered. Outraged, he wanted to march on the capital, but his marshals would not fight for him and repeatedly urged him to surrender. He abdicated in favour of his son on 4 April. The Allies rejected this out of hand, forcing Napoleon to abdicate unconditionally on April 6. The terms of his abdication, which included his exile to the Isle of Elba, were settled in the Treaty of Fontainebleau on April 11. A reluctant Napoleon ratified it two days later. The War of the Sixth Coalition was over.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1812844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812844", "title": "Murder of Erica Green", "text": "Murder of Erica Green\n\nErica Michelle Marie Green (May 15, 1997 – April 28, 2001), also known as Precious Doe, was an American three-year-old girl who was murdered in Kansas City, Missouri, in April 2001. Green's decapitated body was discovered on April 28, 2001, and her head was found nearby on May 1, and then remained unidentified until May 5, 2005. Green's murder attracted significant media and public attention due to the brutality of the crime and the lengthy period without identification.\n\nIn 2008, Green's mother and step-father were convicted for her murder.\n\nOn April 28, 2001, the decapitated body of a young African-American girl was found near Hibbs Park at 59th Street and Kensington Avenue in Kansas City, Missouri. On May 1, 2001, the young girl's head was found wrapped in a trash bag approximately 150 to 200 yards southeast of the body discovery site. Investigators determined that she had been beaten with an ashtray found with the body and kicked several times, causing brutal injuries all over her body, and then decapitated in an effort to keep police from being able to identify the body. The ashtray lacked DNA or fingerprints, and the unidentified girl was known by the multiple-use name Precious Doe, which was used in public broadcasts in an effort to identify her.\n\nThe brutality of the crime, and the fact that Green went unidentified for a long period, sparked nationwide interest in an effort to identify her. Police released sketches, computerized facial reconstructions, and at least two busts.\n\nOn May 5, 2005, Precious Doe was identified as Erica Green, a three-year-old from Oklahoma. Her mother, Michelle Johnson (also known as Michelle Pierce), and her stepfather, Harrell Johnson, were charged with her murder and extradited from Oklahoma to face charges in Missouri. Michelle Johnson's eight other children were taken into state custody or placed with relatives. On December 3, 2005, prosecutors announced that they would seek the death penalty against Erica's stepfather, Harrell Johnson.\nPolice stated that Erica had died when Johnson had used a pair of hedge clippers to sever her head after she had been brutally beaten. Johnson's cousin, Lawanda Driskell, said that Erica's mother helped Harrell dispose of the body by taking Erica from the house as if sleeping in a stroller and telling Driskell she had given Erica to the woman who had raised her while Johnson was in prison.\n\nOn October 8, 2008, Harrell Johnson was convicted of first-degree murder and sentenced to life in prison. On October 22, 2008, Michelle Johnson was sentenced to 25 years in prison, in exchange for her 2007 guilty plea to second-degree murder and testimony against her husband.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1812846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812846", "title": "Pauli Murray", "text": "Pauli Murray\n\nAnna Pauline \"Pauli\" Murray (1910–1985) was an American civil rights activist who became a lawyer, a women's rights activist, Episcopal priest, and author. Drawn to the ministry, in 1977 Murray was the first African-American woman to be ordained as an Episcopal priest, in the first year that any women were ordained by that church.\n\nBorn in Baltimore, Maryland, Murray was virtually orphaned when young, and she was raised mostly by her maternal grandparents in Durham, North Carolina. At the age of 16, she moved to New York City to attend Hunter College, and graduated with a Bachelor of Arts degree in English in 1933. In 1940, Murray sat in the whites-only section of a Virginia bus with a friend, and they were arrested for violating state segregation laws. This incident, and her subsequent involvement with the socialist Workers' Defense League, led her to pursue her career goal of working as a civil rights lawyer. She enrolled in the law school at Howard University, where she also became aware of sexism. She called it \"Jane Crow\", alluding to the Jim Crow laws that enforced racial segregation in the Southern United States. Murray graduated first in her class, but she was denied the chance to do post-graduate work at Harvard University because of her gender. She earned a master's degree in law at University of California, Berkeley, and in 1965 she became the first African American to receive a Doctor of Juridical Science degree from Yale Law School.\n\nAs a lawyer, Murray argued for civil rights and women's rights. National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) Chief Counsel Thurgood Marshall called Murray's 1950 book, \"States' Laws on Race and Color\", the \"bible\" of the civil rights movement. Murray served on the 1961–1963 Presidential Commission on the Status of Women, being appointed by John F. Kennedy. In 1966 she was a co-founder of the National Organization for Women. Ruth Bader Ginsburg named Murray as a coauthor of a brief on the 1971 case \"Reed v. Reed\", in recognition of her pioneering work on gender discrimination. This case articulated the \"failure of the courts to recognize sex discrimination for what it is and its common features with other types of arbitrary discrimination.\" Murray held faculty or administrative positions at the Ghana School of Law, Benedict College, and Brandeis University.\n\nIn 1973, Murray left academia for activities associated with the Episcopal Church. She became an ordained priest in 1977, among the first generation of women priests. Murray struggled in her adult life with issues related to her sexual and gender identity, describing herself as having an \"inverted sex instinct\". She had a brief, annulled marriage to a man and several deep relationships with women. In her younger years, she occasionally had passed as a teenage boy. A 2017 biographer retroactively classified her as transgender.\n\nIn addition to her legal and advocacy work, Murray published two well-reviewed autobiographies and a volume of poetry. Her volume of poetry, \"Dark Testament\", was republished in 2018.\n\nMurray was born in Baltimore, Maryland, on November 20, 1910. Both sides of her family were of mixed racial origins, with ancestors including black slaves, white slave owners, Native Americans, Irish, and free black people. The varied features and complexions of her family were described as a \"United Nations in miniature\". Murray's parents: schoolteacher William H. Murray and nurse Agnes (Fitzgerald) Murray, both identified as black. In 1914, Agnes died of a cerebral hemorrhage when her daughter was three. After Murray's father began to have emotional problems as a result of typhoid fever, relatives took custody of his children. Eventually William was committed to a psychiatric institution, where he received no meaningful treatment.\n\nThree-year-old Pauli Murray was sent to Durham, North Carolina, to live with her mother's family. There, she was raised by her maternal aunts, Sarah (Sallie) Fitzgerald and Pauline Fitzgerald Dame (both teachers), as well as her maternal grandparents, Robert and Cornelia (Smith) Fitzgerald. She attended St. Titus Episcopal Church with her mother's family, as had her mother before Murray was born. In 1923, her father, who had been committed to the Hospital for the Negro Insane of Maryland, died as a result of being beaten by a white guard. Murray had wanted to rescue him when she reached legal age, but was 13 when he died.\n\nMurray lived in Durham until the age of 16, at which point she moved to New York to finish high school and prepare for college. There she lived with the family of her cousin Maude. The family was passing for white in their white neighborhood. Murray's presence discomfited Maude's neighbors, however, as Murray was more visibly of partial African descent. She graduated with her second high school diploma and honors in 1927, and enrolled at Hunter College for two years.\n\nMurray married William Roy Wynn, known as Billy Wynn, in secret on November 30, 1930, but soon came to regret the decision. The historian Rosalind Rosenberg wrote:\nMurray and Wynn only spent a few months together before both leaving town. They did not see one another again before Murray contacted him to have their marriage annulled on March 26, 1949.\n\nInspired to attend Columbia University by a favorite teacher, Murray was turned away because the university did not admit women. She did not have the funds to attend its partner women's school of Barnard College. Instead she attended Hunter College, a free city university, where she was one of the few students of color. Murray was encouraged in her writing by one of her English instructors, who gave her an \"A\" for an essay about her maternal grandfather. This became the basis of her later memoir \"Proud Shoes\" (1956), about her mother's family. Murray published an article and several poems in the college paper. She graduated in 1933 with a Bachelor of Arts degree in English.\n\nJobs were difficult to find during the Great Depression. Murray took a job selling subscriptions to \"\", an academic journal of the National Urban League, a civil rights organization based in New York City. Poor health forced her to resign, and her doctor recommended that Murray seek a healthier environment.\n\nShe took a position at Camp Tera, a \"She-She-She\" conservation camp established at the urging of First Lady Eleanor Roosevelt. It was a parallel to the all-male Civilian Conservation Corps (CCC) camps formed under President Franklin D. Roosevelt's New Deal to provide employment to young adults while improving national infrastructure. During her three months at the camp, Murray's health recovered and she met Eleanor Roosevelt. Later they had correspondence that changed her life. Murray clashed with the camp's director, however. He found a Marxist book from her Hunter College course among Murray's belongings, questioned Murray's attitude during the First Lady's visit, and disapproved of her cross-racial relationship with Peg Holmes, a white counselor. Murray and Holmes left the camp in February 1935, and began traveling the country by walking, hitchhiking, and hopping freight trains. Murray later worked for the Young Women's Christian Association.\n\nMurray applied to the University of North Carolina in 1938, but was rejected because of her race. All schools and other public facilities in the state were segregated by state law, as was the case across the South. The case was broadly publicized in both white and black newspapers. Murray wrote to officials ranging from the university president to President Roosevelt, releasing their responses to the media in an attempt to embarrass them into action. The NAACP initially was interested in the case, but later declined to represent her in court, perhaps fearing that her long residence in New York state weakened her case. NAACP leader Roy Wilkins opposed representing her because Murray had already released her correspondence, which he considered \"not diplomatic\". Concerns about her sexuality also may have played a role in the decision; Murray often wore pants rather than the customary skirts of women and was open about her relationships with women.\n\nIn early 1940, Murray was walking the streets in Rhode Island, distraught after \"the disappearance of a woman friend\". She was taken into custody by police. She was transferred to Bellevue Hospital in New York City for psychiatric treatment. In March, Murray left the hospital with Adelene McBean, her roommate and girlfriend, and took a bus to Durham to visit her aunts.\n\nIn Petersburg, Virginia, the two women moved out of broken seats in the black (and back) section of the bus, where state segregation laws mandated they sit, and into the white section. Inspired by a conversation they had been having about Gandhian civil disobedience, the two women refused to return to the rear even after the police were called. They were arrested and jailed. Murray and McBean initially were defended by the NAACP, but when the pair were convicted only of disorderly conduct rather than violating segregation laws, the organization ceased to represent them. The Workers' Defense League (WDL), a socialist labor rights organization that also was beginning to take civil rights cases, paid her fine. A few months later the WDL hired Murray for its administrative committee.\n\nWith the WDL, Murray became active in the case of Odell Waller, a black Virginia sharecropper sentenced to death for killing his white landlord, Oscar Davis, during an argument. The WDL argued that Davis had cheated Waller in a settlement and as their argument grew more heated, Waller had shot Davis in legitimate fear of his life. Murray toured the country raising funds for Waller's appeal. She wrote to First Lady Eleanor Roosevelt on Waller's behalf. Roosevelt in turn wrote to Virginia Governor James Hubert Price, asking him to guarantee that the trial was fair; she later persuaded the president to privately request Price to commute the death sentence. Through this correspondence, Murray and Eleanor Roosevelt began a friendship that would last until the latter's death two decades later. Despite the efforts of the WDL and the Roosevelts, however, the governor did not commute Waller's sentence. Waller was executed on July 2, 1942.\n\nMurray's trial on charges stemming from the bus incident and her experience with the Waller case inspired a career in civil rights law. In 1941, she began attending Howard University law school. Murray was the only woman in her law school class, and she became aware of sexism at the school, which she labeled \"Jane Crow\"—alluding to Jim Crow, the system of racial discriminatory state laws oppressing African Americans. On Murray's first day of class, one professor, William Robert Ming, remarked that he did not know why women went to law school. She was infuriated.\nIn 1942, while still in law school, Murray joined the Congress of Racial Equality (CORE). That year she published an article, \"Negro Youth's Dilemma\", that challenged segregation in the US military, which continued during the Second World War. She also participated in sit-ins challenging several Washington, DC, restaurants with discriminatory seating policies. These activities preceded the more widespread sit-ins during the civil rights movement of the 1950s and 1960s.\n\nMurray was elected chief justice of the Howard Court of Peers, the highest student position at Howard, and in 1944 she graduated first in her class. Traditionally, men who were graduated first in the class were awarded Julius Rosenwald Fellowships for graduate work at Harvard University, but that university did not accept women. Murray was rejected despite a letter of support from President Franklin D. Roosevelt. She wrote in response, \"I would gladly change my sex to meet your requirements, but since the way to such change has not been revealed to me, I have no recourse but to appeal to you to change your minds. Are you to tell me that one is as difficult as the other?\"\n\nShe did post-graduate work at Boalt Hall School of Law at University of California, Berkeley. Her thesis for her master's degree was entitled \"The Right to Equal Opportunity in Employment\", which argued that \"the right to work is an inalienable right\". It was published in the \"California Law Review\" produced by the school.\n\nAfter passing the California bar exam in 1945, Murray was hired as the state's first black deputy attorney general in January of the following year. That year, the National Council of Negro Women named her its \"Woman of the Year\" and \"Mademoiselle\" magazine did the same in 1947.\n\nIn 1950, Murray published \"States' Laws on Race and Color\", an examination and critique of state segregation laws throughout the nation. She drew on psychological and sociological evidence as well as legal, an innovative discussion technique for which she had previously been criticized by Howard professors. Murray argued for civil rights lawyers to challenge state segregation laws as unconstitutional directly, rather than trying to prove the inequality of so-called \"separate but equal\" facilities, as was argued in some challenges.\n\nThurgood Marshall, then NAACP chief counsel and a future supreme court justice, called Murray's book the \"bible\" of the civil rights movement. Her approach was influential to the NAACP arguments in \"Brown v. Board of Education\" (1954), by which they drew from psychological studies assessing the effects of segregation on students in school. The US Supreme Court ruled that segregated public schools were unconstitutional.\n\nMurray lived in Ghana from 1960 to 1961, serving on the faculty of the Ghana School of Law. She returned to the US and studied at Yale Law School, in 1965 becoming the first African American to receive a Doctor of the Science of Law degree from the school. She taught at Brandeis University from 1968 to 1973, where she received tenure as full professor in American studies.\n\nAt the front of the civil rights movement, alongside such leaders as Martin Luther King Jr. and Rosa Parks, but lesser known, was Pauli Murray, an outspoken woman who protested discrimination on the basis of race and sex. She coined the term \"Jane Crow\", which demonstrated Murray's belief that Jim Crow laws also negatively affected African-American women. She was determined to work with other activists to put a halt to both racism and sexism. Murray's speech, \"Jim Crow and Jane Crow\", delivered in Washington, DC, in 1964, sheds light on the long struggle of African-American women for racial equality and their later fight for equality among the sexes. As she put it, \"Not only have they stood ... with Negro men in every phase of the battle, but they have also continued to stand when their men were destroyed by it.\" The black women decided to \"...continue ... [standing] ...\" for their freedom and liberty even when \"...their men ...\" began to experience exhaustion from a long struggle for civil rights. These women were unafraid to stand up for what they believed in and refused to back down from the long and tedious \"battle\". Murray continued her praise for black women when she stated that \"...one cannot help asking: would the Negro struggle have come this far without the indomitable determination of its women?\" The \"Negro struggle\" was able to progress partly because of \"...the indomitable determination of its women.\"\n\nUS President John F. Kennedy appointed Murray to the Presidential Commission on the Status of Women in 1961. She prepared a memo entitled \"A Proposal to Reexamine the Applicability of the Fourteenth Amendment to State Laws and Practices Which Discriminate on the Basis of Sex Per Se\", which argued that the Fourteenth Amendment forbade sex discrimination as well as racial discrimination.\n\nIn 1963 she became one of the first to criticize the sexism of the civil rights movement, in her speech \"The Negro Woman in the Quest for Equality\". In a letter to civil rights leader A. Philip Randolph, she criticized the fact that in the 1963 March on Washington no women were invited to make one of the major speeches or to be part of its delegation of leaders who went to the White House, among other grievances. She wrote:\nI have been increasingly perturbed over the blatant disparity between the major role which Negro women have played and are playing in the crucial grassroots levels of our struggle and the minor role of leadership they have been assigned in the national policy-making decisions. It is indefensible to call a national march on Washington and send out a call which contains the name of not a single woman leader.\n\nIn 1965 Murray published her landmark article (coauthored by Mary Eastwood), \"Jane Crow and the Law: Sex Discrimination and Title VII\", in the \"George Washington Law Review\". The article discussed Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 as it applied to women, and drew comparisons between discriminatory laws against women and Jim Crow laws. In 1966 she was a cofounder of the National Organization for Women (NOW), which she hoped could act as an NAACP for women's rights. In March of that year, Murray wrote to Commissioner Richard Alton Graham that the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission was not fulfilling its duty in upholding the gendered portion of its mission, leaving only half the black population protected. Later in 1966 she and Dorothy Kenyon successfully argued \"White v. Crook\", a case in which the US Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit ruled that women have an equal right to serve on juries. When the lawyer and future supreme court justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg wrote her brief for \"Reed v. Reed\"—a 1971 supreme court case that, for the first time extended the Fourteenth Amendment's Equal Protection Clause to women—she added Murray and Kenyon as coauthors in recognition of her debt to their work.\n\nMurray served as vice president of Benedict College from 1967 to 1968. She left Benedict to become a professor at Brandeis University, where she remained until 1973. In addition to teaching law, Murray introduced classes on African-American studies and women's studies, both firsts for the university. Murray later wrote that her time at Brandeis was \"the most exciting, tormenting, satisfying, embattled, frustrated, and at times triumphant period of my secular career\".\n\nIncreasingly inspired by her connections with other women in the Episcopal Church, Murray, then more than sixty years old, left Brandeis to attend the seminary. She was ordained to the diaconate in 1976 and, after three years of study, in 1977 she became the first African-American woman ordained as an Episcopal priest and was among the first generation of Episcopal women priests. That year she celebrated her first Eucharist by invitation and preached her first sermon at Chapel of the Cross. That was the first time a woman celebrated the Eucharist at an Episcopal church in North Carolina. In 1978 she preached in her home town of Durham, North Carolina, on Mother's Day at St. Philip's Episcopal Church, where her mother and grandparents had attended in the 19th century. She announced her mission of reconciliation. For the next seven years, Murray worked in a parish in Washington, DC, focusing particularly on ministry to the sick.\n\nOn July 1, 1985, Pauli Murray died of pancreatic cancer in the house she owned with lifelong friend, Maida Springer Kemp, in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.\n\nIn 2012 the General Convention of the Episcopal Church voted to honor Murray as one of its \"Holy Women, Holy Men\", to be commemorated on July 1, the anniversary of her death, along with fellow writer Harriet Beecher Stowe. Bishop Michael Curry of the Diocese of North Carolina said this recognition honors \"people whose lives have exemplified what it means to follow in the footsteps of Jesus and make a difference in the world.\"\n\nIn 2015 the National Trust for Historic Preservation designated the childhood home of Murray (on Carroll Street in Durham, North Carolina's West End neighborhood) as a National Treasure.\n\nIn April 2016, Yale University announced that it had selected Murray as the namesake of one of two new residential colleges (Pauli Murray College) to be completed in 2017; the other was to be named after Benjamin Franklin.\n\nIn December 2016 the Pauli Murray Family Home was designated as a National Historic Landmark by the US Department of Interior.\n\nIn 2018 Murray was chosen by the National Women's History Project as one of its honorees for Women's History Month in the United States.\n\nAlso in 2018, Murray was made a permanent part of the Episcopal Church's calendar of saints (she is commemorated on July 2). Thurgood Marshall and Florence Li Tim-Oi were also added permanently to the calendar.\n\nMurray struggled with her sexual and gender identity through much of her life. Her marriage as a teenager ended almost immediately with the realization that \"when men try to make love to me, something in me fights\". Although acknowledging the term \"homosexual\" in describing others, Murray preferred to describe herself as having an \"inverted sex instinct\" that caused her to behave as a man attracted to women would. She wanted a \"monogamous married life\", but one in which she was the man. The majority of her relationships were with women whom she described as \"extremely feminine and heterosexual\". In her younger years, Murray often was devastated by the end of these relationships, to the extent that she was hospitalized for psychiatric treatment twice, in 1937 and in 1940.\n\nMurray wore her hair short and preferred pants to skirts; due to her slight build, there was a time in her life when she was often able to pass as a teenage boy. In her twenties, she shortened her name from Pauline to the more androgynous Pauli. At the time of her arrest for the bus segregation protest in 1940, she gave her name as \"Oliver\" to the arresting officers. Murray pursued hormone treatments in the 1940s to correct what she saw as a personal imbalance and even requested abdominal surgery to test if she had \"submerged\" male sex organs. Writing about Murray's understanding of their gender, Rosalind Rosenberg, author of \"Jane Crow: The Life of Pauli Murray\", categorized Murray as a transgender man. When asked about her understanding of Murray's gender in a 2017 interview with the African American Intellectual History Society, Rosenberg states, \"(During Pauli's early life) These were years when the term transgender did not exist and there was no social movement to support or help make sense of the trans experience. Murray’s papers helped me to understand how her struggle with gender identity shaped her life as a civil rights pioneer, legal scholar, and feminist.\"\n\nIn an essay entitled \"Pauli Murray and the Pronominal Problem\", the philosopher, activist, and transgender scholar Naomi Simmons-Thorne lends support behind the emerging view of Murray as an early transgender figure in U.S. history. In her essay, she calls upon historians and scholars to complement this growing interpretation through the use of masculine pronouns to reflect Murray's masculine perception of self. Simmons-Thorne is not the first academic to draw attention to the issue of Murray’s pronouns however. Historian Simon D. Elin Fisher has also challenged the historical and textual practices of assigning Murray female pronouns through their pronominal use of ‘s/he’ in some of their writings. Simmons-Thorne however makes exclusive use of \"he-him-his\" pronouns in reference to Murray. She conceives of the practice as one of many “de-essentialist\" trans historiographical methods capable of \"interrupt[ing] the logic of biological determinism\" and \"the constraints of cissexism operating historically.\" Her view is a radical departure from biographers and scholars like Rosenberg (often cisgender), and conventional practices more broadly, which generally refer to Murray through the use of \"she-her-hers\" pronouns.\n\nIn addition to her legal work, Murray wrote two volumes of autobiography and a collection of poetry. Her first autobiographical book, \"Proud Shoes\" (1956), traces her family's complicated racial origins, particularly focusing on her maternal grandparents, Robert and Cornelia Fitzgerald. Cornelia was the daughter of a slave who had been raped by her white owner and his brother. Born into slavery, the mixed-race girl was raised by her owner's sister and educated. Robert was a free black man from Pennsylvania, also of mixed racial ancestry; he moved to the South to teach during the Reconstruction Era. Newspapers, including \"The New York Times\", gave the book very positive reviews. \"The New York Herald Tribune\" stated that \"Proud Shoes\" is \"a personal memoir, it is history, it is biography, and it is also a story that, at its best, is dramatic enough to satisfy the demands of fiction. It is written in anger, but without hatred; in affection, but without pathos and tears; and in humor that never becomes extravagant.\"\n\nMurray published a collection of her poetry, \"Dark Testament and Other Poems\", in 1970. The volume contains what critic Christina G. Bucher calls a number of \"conflicted love poems\", as well as those exploring economic and racial injustice. The collection has received little critical attention, and as of 2007, was out of print. It was republished in 2018, following publication of a new biography about Murray in 2017.\n\nA follow-up volume to \"Proud Shoes\", her memoir \"Song in a Weary Throat: An American Pilgrimage\", was published posthumously in 1987. \"Song\" focused on Murray's own life, particularly her struggles with both gender and racial discrimination. It received the Robert F. Kennedy Book Award, the Christopher Award, and the Lillian Smith Book Award.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1812851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812851", "title": "Lycaonia", "text": "Lycaonia\n\nLycaonia (; , \"Lykaonia\", ) was a large region in the interior of Asia Minor, north of the Taurus Mountains. It was bounded on the east by Cappadocia, on the north by Galatia, on the west by Phrygia and Pisidia, while to the south it extended to the chain of Mount Taurus, where it bordered on the country popularly called in earlier times Cilicia and in the Byzantine period Isauria; but its boundaries varied greatly at different times. The name is not found in Herodotus, but Lycaonia is mentioned by Xenophon as traversed by Cyrus the Younger on his march through Asia. That author describes Iconium as the last city of Phrygia; and in Acts 14:6 Paul, after leaving Iconium, crossed the frontier and came to Lystra in Lycaonia. Ptolemy, on the other hand, includes Lycaonia as a part of the province of Cappadocia, with which it was associated by the Romans for administrative purposes; but the two countries are clearly distinguished both by Strabo and Xenophon and by authorities generally.\n\nThere is a theory that the name \"Lycaonia\" is a Greek-adapted version (influenced by the Greek masculine name Lycaon) of an original \"Lukkawanna\", which would mean \"the land of the Lukka people\" in an old Anatolian language related to Hittite.\n\nLycaonia is described by Strabo as a cold region of elevated plains, affording pasture to wild asses and to sheep; and at the present day sheep abound, but asses are practically unknown. Amyntas, king of Galatia, to whom the district was for a time subject, maintained there not less than three hundred flocks. It forms part of the interior tableland of Asia Minor, and has an elevation of more than 1000 meters. It suffers from want of water, aggravated in some parts by abundance of salt in the soil, so that the northern portion, extending from near Iconium to the salt lake of Tatta and the frontiers of Galatia, is almost wholly barren, only small patches being cultivated near Iconium and the large villages. The soil, where water is supplied, is productive. In ancient times great attention was paid to storing and distributing the water, so that much land now barren was formerly cultivated and supported a large number of cities.\n\nThe plain is interrupted by some minor groups of mountains, of volcanic character, of which the Kara Dagh in the south, a few miles north of Karaman, rises to 2288 meters, while the Karadja Dagh, north-east of it, though of inferior elevation, presents a striking range of volcanic cones. The mountains in the north-west, near Iconium and Laodicea Combusta, are the termination of the Sultan Dagh range, which traverses a large part of Phrygia.\n\nThe Lycaonians appear to have been in early times to a great extent independent of the Persian empire, and were like their neighbors the Isaurians a wild and lawless race of freebooters; but their country was traversed by one of the great natural lines of high road through Asia Minor, from Sardis and Ephesus to the Cilician gates, and a few considerable towns grew up along or near this line. The most important was Iconium, in the most fertile spot in the country, of which it was always regarded by the Romans as the capital, although ethnologically it was Phrygian. It is still called Konya, and it was the capital of the Seljuk Turkish sultane for several centuries. A little farther north, immediately on the frontier of Phrygia, stood Laodicea Combusta (Ladik), surnamed \"Combusta\", to distinguish it from the Phrygian city of that name; and in the south, near the foot of Mount Taurus, was Laranda, now called Karaman, which has given name to the province of Karamania. Derbe and Lystra, which appear from the Acts of the Apostles to have been considerable towns, were between Iconium and Laranda. There were many other towns, which became bishoprics in Byzantine times. Lycaonia was Christianized very early; and its ecclesiastical system was more completely organized in its final form during the 4th century than that of any other region of Asia Minor.\n\nAfter the defeat of Antiochus the Great, Lycaonia was given by the Romans to Eumenes II, king of Pergamon. About 160 BC, part of it, the Tetrarchy of Lycaonia, was added to Galatia; and in 129 BC the eastern half (usually called during the following 200 years Lycaonia proper) was given to Cappadocia as an eleventh strategia. In the readjustment of the Provinces, 64 BC, by Pompey after the Mithridatic Wars, he gave the northern part of the tetrarchy to Galatia and the eastern part of the eleventh strategia to Cappadocia. The remainder was attached to Cilicia. Its administration and grouping changed often under the Romans. In 371, Lycaonia was first formed into a separate province.\n\nThe ancient coinage of Lycaonia is quite limited. Judging from the number of types/issues known, coins appear to have been struck sporadically and perhaps mostly for prestige or some important occasion (like a visit by the Emperor).\n\nThe Lycaonians appear to have retained a distinct nationality in the time of Strabo, but their ethnical affinities are unknown. The mention of the Lycaonian language in the Acts of the Apostles (14:11) shows that the native language was spoken by the common people at Lystra about 50; and probably it was only later and under Christian influence that Greek took its place. It is notable though that in the Acts of the Apostles Barnabas was called Zeus, and Paul was thought to be Hermes by Lycaonians, and this makes some other researchers to believe that Lycaonian language was actually a Greek dialect, the remnant of which can still be found in the Cappadocian Greek language which is classified as a distinct Greek dialect.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1812852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812852", "title": "Comprehensive Plan of Action", "text": "Comprehensive Plan of Action\n\nThe Comprehensive Plan of Action (CPA) is a program adopted in June 1989 at a conference in Geneva held by The Steering Committee of the International Conference on Indo-Chinese Refugees. It was designed to deter and to stop the continuing influx of Indochinese boat people and to cope with an increasing reluctance by third countries to maintain resettlement opportunities for every Vietnamese or Laotian exile, with the threat of countries of first asylum in Southeast Asia to push back asylum seekers.\n\nBy changing UNHCR policy toward the Boat people. Those who arrived at the camps after the so-called cut-off dates as follows:\n\n\nwould no longer automatically be considered as prima facie refugees, but only asylum seekers and would have to be screened to qualify for refugee status (Screening procedure or procedure to determine refugee status). Those who were screened-out would be sent back to Vietnam and Laos, under an orderly and monitored repatriation program. \n\nWhen the Steering Committee first met, in 1989, hundreds of thousands of people were escaping out of Viet Nam and Laos by land and boat. Faced with the continuing exodus, and increasing reluctance by third countries to maintain resettlement opportunities for every exile, countries of first asylum in South-East Asia threatened push-backs of the asylum seekers. \n\nThe Conference on Indo-Chinese Refugees wanted Viet Nam and the Lao People's Democratic Republic to be involved in the solution for this problem, as well as first-asylum countries, (Indonesia, Malaysia, The Philippines, Hong Kong, Thailand) and resettlement countries, to share responsibility for the asylum seekers and guarantee asylum to all refugees.\n\nThe Conference also demanded that every asylum seeker would receive refuge in first-asylum countries and not be pushed back, when the process of determination of his or her refugee claim was pending. Screening procedures (or procedure to determine refugee status) were adopted to examine every individual's claim to refugee status. Recognized refugees were to receive resettlement opportunities. Rejected asylum seekers were to return to their home countries, whose governments agreed to refrain from any discrimination, harassment, persecution or unfair treatment. \n\nUnder the Plan, the UNHCR provided humanitarian assistance to the asylum seekers and countries of first asylum. Extensive monitoring procedures were also established in the countries of origin, and financial assistance was provided to the returnees and to the communities which agreed to accept them back. \n\nAfter 7 years, the plan was declared ended on March 6, 1996. At that time, all the refugee camps for Indochinese boat people in South East Asia, such as Galang Refugee Camp in Indonesia, were effectively closed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1812875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812875", "title": "Miles Gurtu", "text": "Miles Gurtu\n\nMiles_Gurtu is the fourth studio album by Robert Miles, the second he independently recorded and produced. The record was released on February 10, 2004. Robert Miles and Indian jazz percussionist Trilok Gurtu met while recording Miles's last solo album, \"Organik\", where Gurtu played percussion on three of the tracks. The result of the current collaboration is a mix of both musicians' very disparate styles. \"Miles_Gurtu\" expanded Robert Miles's \"new style\" started in \"Organik\" (2001), this time in a much more jazzy way.\n\n\nComposed and improvised by Robert Miles and Trilok Gurtu.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1812879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812879", "title": "Jorie Graham", "text": "Jorie Graham\n\nJorie Graham (born May 9, 1950) is an American poet. The Poetry Foundation called Graham \"one of the most celebrated poets of the American post-war generation.\" She replaced poet Seamus Heaney as Boylston Professor at Harvard, becoming the first woman to be appointed to this position. She won the Pulitzer Prize for Poetry (1996) for \"The Dream of the Unified Field: Selected Poems 1974-1994\" and was chancellor of the Academy of American Poets from 1997 to 2003.\n\nJorie Graham is the author of numerous collections of poetry, including notable volumes like \"The End of Beauty\", \"The Dream of the Unified Field: Selected Poems 1974-1994\", and \"P L A C E\". She has also edited two anthologies, \"Earth Took of Earth: 100 Great Poems of the English Language\" (1996) and \"The Best American Poetry 1990\". She is widely anthologized and her poetry is the subject of many essays, including \"Jorie Graham: Essays on the Poetry\" (2005). The Poetry Foundation considers Graham's third book, \"The End of Beauty\" (1987), to have been a \"watershed\" book in which Graham first used the longer verse line for which she is best known. Graham's many honors include a Whiting Award (1985), the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Fellowship, an Ingram Merrill Fellowship, The Morton Dauwen Zabel Award from The American Academy and Institute of Arts and Letters and the Whiting Award. \"The Dream of the Unified Field: Selected Poems 1974-1994\" won the 1996 Pulitzer Prize for Poetry. Her collection of poetry \"P L A C E\" won the 2012 Forward Poetry Prize for best collection, becoming the first American woman ever to win one of the UK's most prestigious poetry accolades. \"P L A C E\" was also shortlisted for the 2012 T S Eliot Prize. In 2013, Graham became only the third American to win the International Nonino Prize. In 2015, \"From the New World: Selected Poems 1976-2014\"—a collection from all prior eleven volumes plus new work—was published by HarperCollins/Ecco Press. In 2016 \"From the New World\" won the \"LA Times Book Award\" for poetry\".\"\n\nIn 2017, Graham received the Wallace Stevens Award from the Academy of American Poets. Given annually to recognize outstanding and proven mastery in the art of poetry, recipients are nominated and elected by a majority vote of the Academy's Board of Chancellors. She won the 2018 Bobbitt National Prize for Poetry for \"Fast\".\n\nAbout Jorie Graham, Academy of American Poets Chancellor Claudia Rankine said: \"Jorie Graham's masterful poems traverse almost four decades of inquiry into what it means to be in relation. Her work pulls forward our mythical, historical, environmental, and personal narratives in order to inhabit our most ordinary and collective experiences. Hers is the patience of the return; repetition in her work unearths the nuances of fundamental desires to live, to love, to be. Clear-eyed and with a scope that encompasses what is both known and unknown, her fifteen collections have built towards a brilliant insistence on presence.\"\n\nShe served as a Chancellor of The Academy of American Poets from 1997 to 2003, and she currently sits on the contributing editorial board to the literary journal \"Conjunctions\".\n\nJorie Graham was born in New York City in 1950 to Curtis Bill Pepper, a war correspondent and the head of the Rome bureau for \"Newsweek\" magazine, and the sculptor Beverly Stoll Pepper. She and her brother John Randolph Pepper were raised in Rome, Italy. She studied philosophy at the Sorbonne, but was expelled for participating in student protests. She completed her undergraduate work as a film major at New York University, and became interested in poetry during that time. (She claims that her interest was sparked while walking past M.L. Rosenthal's classroom and overhearing the last couplet of \"The Love Song of J. Alfred Prufrock\" ). After working as a secretary, she later went on to receive her Master of Fine Arts from the famed Iowa Writers' Workshop at the University of Iowa.\n\nGraham has held a longtime faculty position at the Iowa Writers' Workshop, and has held an appointment at Harvard University since 1999. Graham replaced Nobel Laureate and poet Seamus Heaney as Boylston professor in Harvard's Department of English and American Literature and Language. She became the first woman to be awarded this position.\n\nGraham was married to and divorced from publishing heir William Graham, brother of Donald E. Graham, the former publisher of \"The Washington Post\". She then married the poet James Galvin in 1983 and they divorced in 1999. She married poet and painter Peter M. Sacks, a colleague at Harvard, in 2000.\n\nIn January 1999, she judged the University of Georgia Contemporary Poetry series contest, which selected the manuscript \"O Wheel\" from Peter Sacks, her future husband, as the first-place winner. Graham noted that at that time she was not married to Sacks, and that while she had \"felt awkward\" about giving the award to her then-boyfriend, she had first cleared it with the series editor, Bin Ramke. As a result of the critical media coverage Ramke resigned from the editorship of the series. Graham subsequently announced that she would no longer serve as a judge in contests although she continued to do so after 2008. Throughout the course of the contest, Ramke had insisted that judges of the contest be kept secret, and until Foetry.com obtained the names of judges via The Open Records Act, the conflict of interest had been undisclosed. A statement now adopted in the rules of many competitions (including the University of Georgia Contest) to prevent judges from selecting students is often referred to as the \"Jorie Graham rule\".\n\nThe Foetry site also contended that Graham, as a judge at Georgia and other contests, had awarded prizes to at least five of her former students from the Iowa Writers' Workshop, including Joshua Clover, Mark Levine, and Geoffrey Nutter. Graham's reply to this was that over years of teaching she has had over 1400 students, many of whom went on to continue writing poetry, that no rules had prohibited her from awarding prizes to former students, and that in each case she claims to have selected the strongest work.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1812884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812884", "title": "Arkansas Arts Center", "text": "Arkansas Arts Center\n\nThe Arkansas Arts Center is on the corner of 9th and Commerce streets in MacArthur Park, Little Rock, Arkansas, USA. The Arkansas Arts Center was founded in 1960, but the idea began in 1914 when the Fine Arts Club of Arkansas formed. The group included supporters and volunteers who contributed to the realization of the Museum of Fine Arts in 1937 in Little Rock's MacArthur Park. The center features a permanent collection of art along with occasional special exhibitions. Other parts of the center include a research library and rooms for several art education classes for a variety of age groups. The center also includes the restaurant \"Canvas\" and a gift shop. Many of the facilities such as the main atrium and the lecture hall can be rented for special events.\n\nThe museum is a member of the North American Reciprocal Museums program. In 2011 it was named as one of the top 10 attractions in the state of Arkansas by Arkansas.com.\n\nThe museum's permanent collection is focused on drawings, which the AAC defines as any unique work on paper, and contemporary craft objects. The collection holds objects from such historically recognized artists such as Rembrandt, Pablo Picasso, Odilon Redon, Andrew Wyeth, and Edgar Degas. The collection also represents numerous important late 20th century and contemporary artists such as Susan Hauptman, Gregory Gillespie, John Connell, William Beckman, Enrique Chagoya, Jane Frank, John Stuart Ingle, Tim Lowly, and Odd Nerdrum. One of the highlights of the Arts Center's collection is a collection of Paul Signac drawings and watercolours; many are on public display in a gallery dedicated to the Signac collection. Much of the Arkansas Art Center's permanent collection can be viewed through its Web Kiosk.\n\nThe Arkansas Arts Center hosts the \"Annual\" \"Delta Exhibition\", a juried exhibition of artist from Arkansas and its border states, Louisiana, Mississippi, Missouri, Oklahoma, Tennessee and Texas. The exhibition was founded in 1958 to feature contemporary work by artists born in or currently living in the Mississippi Delta region.\n\nThe Arts Center also host an \"Annual Collectors Show & Sale\". The curators of the museum bring in works—principally drawings—from a variety of galleries from New York and around the country. This gives local collectors access to works they wouldn't normally see and the general public to see the works of a number of contemporary artists.\n\nA competitive show of works from local school children is held annually as well. The \"Young Arkansas Artists\" show displays works from grades K-12 and awards prizes and honorable mentions for outstanding work. Schools with winning entries receive monetary awards to help promote their art programs.\n\nThe Arkansas Arts Center also organizes their \"National Drawing Invitational\" on a semi-regular basis. The show was designed to enhance to medium of drawing and to further awareness of draftsmanship as a contemporary art.\n\nRecognized by The Drama League as one of the best regional theater companies in America, the Arkansas Arts Center Children's Theatre is the only professional company in Arkansas that produces children's literary works for the stage. The Children's Theater is a very popular attraction featuring plays of classic children's stories. The Children's Theater gives children both the opportunity to witness live performances and to participate in stage productions.\n\nThe Arts Center's Museum School offers courses in a variety of media. Classes in life drawing, Ceramics, photography, woodworking, and jewelry, as well as workshops by visiting artists and children's classes are available. The school holds a sale of student work the Saturday before Thanksgiving each year.\n\nThe gift shop in the museum includes many ceramics and hand blown glass objects. Other available items include books on various artists, including Paul signac and Viula Frey. Also included are bronze sculptures and other sculpted items\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1812887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812887", "title": "Lightbulb Sun", "text": "Lightbulb Sun\n\nLightbulb Sun is the sixth studio album by British progressive rock band Porcupine Tree, first released in May 2000, and later reissued in 2008 on CD, DVD-A surround sound, and vinyl.\n\nThis album, along with their prior album \"Stupid Dream\", is considered to have a more commercial, poppier sound, as opposed to the abstract instrumental sound of their prior albums, or the heavier metal sound in their subsequent albums of the 2000s. The album is divided into two parts between \"Rest Will Flow\" and \"Hatesong\". The first part concentrates more on melodic, pop elements of Porcupine Tree's style, while the second has a more experimental character.\n\nFrontman Steven Wilson remarked that album was \"the quickest album we ever made\" (in 3 months flat) and yet still \"our best work to date\" shortly after the album was completed, and was released a mere 14 months after their previous album, \"Stupid Dream\". Lyrically, Wilson had tired of writing about abstract concepts like war or religion, and felt he had the confidence to write more personal and emotional lyrics, leading to some especially negative lyrics being displayed in tracks such as \"Hatesong\" and \"Feel So Low\".\n\nMusically, Wilson stated he wanted to bring back some of the experimental aspects they had moved away from on \"Stupid Dream\", stating \"Richard [Barbieri] and I worked on creating some unique keyboard sounds for the album – e.g. the 'fairground' on 'How is Your Life Today?' and the 'insects' at the end of 'Russia On Ice. He also spoke of the influence of metal music on the album, stating, \"... part of the beauty of the guitar solo on 'Where We Would Be' comes from the fact that it was played relatively straight but then fed through so many distortion and lo-fi processes that it began to fizz and disintegrate. The riffing guitars on 'Russia On Ice' are pure metal and one of the solos of 'Hatesong' I call my 'Korn solo' on account of the fact that the bottom strings on the guitar are tuned down so low that the notes can be bent several tones\". Conversely, the band added more unconventional instruments to the compositions as well, such as the banjo, hammered dulcimers, and more string sections. String sections in \"Lightbulb Sun\" were arranged and produced by Dave Gregory from alternative rock band XTC at Christchurch Studios, Clifton, Bristol in January 2000, recorded by John Waterhouse.\n\nWilson describes the album as more organic sounding than his previous albums, stating that, \"In a song like 'Winding Shot' [the name for the first half of the track 'Last Chance to Evacuate Planet Earth ...'] there are shades of Crosby, Stills, Nash and Young and Nick Drake, although the end result is hopefully pure Porcupine Tree. This effect is accentuated by the fact that many of the instruments and vocals on the album are much more up front and given less of a sheen than on \"Stupid Dream\" ... Organic is the word I like to use.\"\n\nRichard Barbieri described his approach to his keyboard playing, saying that \"... Much of my keyboard experimenting took place on tracks like 'Russia On Ice', 'Last Chance to Evacuate Planet Earth ...', 'Feel So Low' and '4 Chords That Made a Million', while other tracks didn't seem to need a great deal of keyboards. I'm not one for playing all over a track if I can't see a genuine need for it.\"\n\nMany songs from \"Lightbulb Sun\" and \"Stupid Dream\" recording sessions, that were left off their respective albums, were later released on the B-side compilations album \"Recordings\" in 2001.\n\nWilson states that, while there is no unifying theme or concept behind the album, \"There are at least four or five songs on that record which I call the divorce songs, the relationship songs, which are all about various stages of the splitting up a relationship, of dissolving a relationship. Russia On Ice, How Is Your Life Today, Shesmovedon, Feel So Low, I mean, the last track of the album. The period in a relationship, where the relationship is kind of... still exists, but it's in that period where, really, there is nothing left but hatred and despise - Hatesong is the other one. But then on the other hand, there are groups of songs on the album which are all about various childhood... nostalgic childhood reminisces, Lightbulb Sun and the first part of Last Chance To Evacuate Planet Earth, Where We Would Be. So there are kind of groups of songs. And then there's a couple of songs that don't have any relation to anything else. Four Chords That Made A Million doesn't have any relation to anything else on the album, or anything else I've ever written. It's just that.\"\n\nThe tracks \"Four Chords That Made a Million\", \"Where We Would Be\" and \"Russia on Ice\" were premiered during the \"Stupid Dream\" tour in 1999, several months before Lightbulb Sun's release.\n\nThe track \"Last Chance to Evacuate Planet Earth Before It Is Recycled\" features a speech by the leader of the Heaven's Gate religious cult. This U.S. cult believed that they were from another planet and only visiting Earth. In order to return to their own \"dimension\" before Earth was \"recycled\", such extraterrestrial entities must find each other and commit mass suicide. The words are taken from the video they made before killing themselves to explain to the rest of the world why they had done it.\n\nThe track \"The Rest Will Flow\" is slower on the remaster, due to having been sped up from its originally recorded speed in the original master in order to make it more \"radio-friendly\". It originally was in danger of being left off the album altogether, as some band members questioned if it fit in with the rest of the album, but Wilson ultimately kept it on, arguing that it had \"single potential\". The song was in fact intended to be the album's third single, scheduled for October 2000 release, but it was cancelled for undisclosed reasons.\n\nThe song \"Feel So Low\" was re-recorded in 2004 by Blackfield, which is a project that consists of Porcupine Tree's Steven Wilson and Israeli singer/songwriter Aviv Geffen. The first verse of that version was sung in Hebrew by Geffen. This version only made it to the vinyl edition of the first Blackfield album. Later live renditions of this track by Blackfield were sung entirely in English but differed significantly from the Porcupine Tree original, as they added a long, heavy instrumental section at the end.\n\nWilson believes that the track \"Buying New Soul\", which was later only released on the b-side compilation \"Recordings\" and the 2008 reissue of the album, probably would have been included on the original release of the album had it been written and completed a few months earlier.\n\nAll tracks by Wilson except \"Hatesong\" (Edwin, Wilson) and \"Russia on Ice\" (Barbieri, Edwin, Maitland, Wilson). Arrangements by Porcupine Tree.\n\nA reissue of \"Lightbulb Sun\" was released on 21 April 2008 through Kscope as 2 disc set; or a 3 disc set for the first 5,000 pre-ordered copies. Disc one is a CD containing a remastered version of the original album, while disc two is a DVD-A containing the album remixed into 5.1 surround sound. Disc 2 also contains three bonus tracks at the end: \"Disappear\", \"Buying New Soul\", and \"Cure for Optimism\", which were recorded during the same sessions. A limited edition third disc contains two instrumental tracks: \"Novak\", the b-side to the original 7\" \"Shesmovedon\" single; and \"Buying New Soul (Instrumental Backing Track)\", the original version of \"Buying New Soul\", with 4 minutes more music that were cut at the same time as the vocals were overdubbed.\n\nA double vinyl edition of the remaster was released through Tonefloat on 8 July 2008, in memory of Michael Piper, a member of the Porcupine Tree crew, founder of the Gates Of Dawn record label, who died in April 2008. It was available in a limited run of 1,000 numbered copies on 180 grams coloured vinyl in gatefold picture sleeve and a regular edition on 180 grams black vinyl in gatefold picture sleeve.\n\nReception for the album has been largely positive. \"Classic Rock\" magazine described the album as \"an album of stunning songs and startling musicianship… breathtaking.\" \"Allmusic\" praised the album's quality and its more commercial direction, and called the tracks \"Feel So Low\" and \"The Rest Will Flow\" \"flat out two of Wilson's best tunes anywhere.\" \"ArtistDirect\" warned that while it is different than later Porcupine Tree releases such as \"Fear of a Blank Planet\", and conventional progressive rock in general, \"Porcupine Tree achieves something altogether more enjoyable here. And, while audiophiles may find the dense harmonies and musical arrangements intriguing in surround sound, the strength of Lightbulb Sun is in melancholic melodies that would sound every bit as good in mono.\" \"The Real Musician\" music website echoed similar sentiments, and considered it to be \"the last 'old' Porcupine Tree cd\" (prior to their move into a more metal direction with 2002's \"In Absentia\"), and continued \"Out of that old band, Lightbulb Sun is the very best album they created\".\n\nMany reviewers felt the album sounded similar to the work of Pink Floyd. The album has also been praised for being more accessible than most progressive rock, with Bill Kopp of \"Musoscribe\" stating \"\"Lightbulb Sun\" is, like all (Porcupine Tree), really, very accessible stuff. In many ways, Porcupine Tree can serve as a listener's entree into a heretofore unexplored genre: if you're a rock fan but not so into prog, (it) can ease you in gently. If...you're no metal fan, the band ... can show you the benefits of that genre without going all Metallica on you.\"\n\nIn October 2011, it was awarded a gold certification from the Independent Music Companies Association (IMPALA), which indicated sales in excess of 75,000 copies throughout Europe.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1812906", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812906", "title": "Giacometti (surname)", "text": "Giacometti (surname)\n\nGiacometti is an Italian language surname derived from the name Giacomo.\n\nThe surname may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1812919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812919", "title": "David Turpin", "text": "David Turpin\n\nDavid Turpin may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1812924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812924", "title": "Solomon Gursky Was Here", "text": "Solomon Gursky Was Here\n\nSolomon Gursky Was Here is a novel by Canadian author Mordecai Richler first published by Viking Canada in 1989.\n\nThe novel tells of several generations of the fictional Gursky family, who are connected to several disparate events in the history of Canada, including the Franklin Expedition and rum-running. Some fans and critics have cited this as Mordecai Richler's best book, and in terms of scope and style it is unmatched by his other works. The parallels between the Gursky family and the Bronfmans are such that the novel \"may be seen as a thinly disguised account of the [Bronfman] family\". While Richler himself denied any similarities, \"one longtime Bronfman associate put it, 'I don't know why Mordecai bothered to change the names.'\"\n\nThe tale centres on Moses Berger, an alcoholic failed writer who is obsessed with Solomon Gursky, the brother of Bernard and Morrie and absent from the family empire after a fatal plane crash. It is implied that it is disappointment with his own father, the failed poet L. B. Berger, with whom Moses has a deeply dysfunctional relationship that put him on the trail of Solomon, a character as strong-willed as he was mysterious.\n\n\"Solomon Gursky\" is told in a non-linear fashion, jumping around in both Moses' personal timeline as well as through four generations of the legendary Gursky family. Though much of the story is told from Moses' perspective, parts are also told from the perspectives of different members of the family and the people attached to them, creating a much more ambiguous picture of the Gurskys.\n"}
{"id": "1812937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812937", "title": "Louis Alexandre, Count of Toulouse", "text": "Louis Alexandre, Count of Toulouse\n\nLouis Alexandre de Bourbon, \"comte de Toulouse\" (1681), \"duc de Penthièvre\" (1697), (1711), (6 June 1678 – 1 December 1737), a legitimated prince of the blood royal, was the son of Louis XIV and of his mistress Françoise-Athénaïs, marquise de Montespan. At the age of five, he became grand admiral of France\" (Grand Admiral of France).\n\nBorn at the Château de Clagny in Versailles, Louis Alexandre de Bourbon was the third son and youngest child of Louis XIV born out-of-wedlock with Madame de Montespan. At birth, he was put in the care of Madame de Montchevreuil along with his older sister Françoise-Marie de Bourbon.\n\nLouis Alexandre was created Count of Toulouse in 1681 at the time of his legitimation, and, in 1683, at the age of five, grand admiral. In February 1684, he became colonel of an infantry regiment named after him and in 1693 \"mestre de camp\" of a cavalry regiment. During the War of Spanish Succession, he was given the task of defending Sicily. In January 1689, he was named governor of Guyenne, a title which he exchanged for that of governor of Brittany six years later. On 3 January 1696, he was created a marshal of France, becoming commander of the royal armies the following year. During the War of the Spanish Succession he commanded the French fleet at the Battle of Vélez-Málaga in 1704.\n\nThough his father had legitimated him and his three surviving siblings, and even declared his two sons by Madame de Montespan fit to eventually succeed him to the throne of France, this was not to be, as immediately after Louis XIV's death the Parlement of Paris reversed the king's will.\n\nUnlike his brother, Louis Auguste, Duke of Maine, who was barred from the regency council, Toulouse was not kept from a political role, and soon after, he was named (minister of the Navy), inheriting a seasoned staff headed by Joseph Pellerin. He remained in this capacity until being succeeded by Joseph Fleuriau d'Armenonville in 1722, the same Fleuriau d'Armenonville who had sold him the castle of Rambouillet in 1706.\n\nThe proposal of his marriage to Charlotte de Lorraine, \"Mademoiselle d'Armagnac\", member of a cadet branch of the House of Guise had met with the categorical refusal of Louis XIV.\n\nOn 2 February 1723, the comte de Toulouse married Marie Victoire de Noailles, a daughter of the Anne Jules, duc de Noailles, in a private ceremony in Paris. She was the widow of Louis de Pardaillan de Gondrin (1688-1712), his nephew, son of his half-brother Louis Antoine de Pardaillan de Gondrin, whose mother was \"Madame de Montespan\". The marriage was kept secret until the death of the regent. The couple had one son:\n\n\nHe and his sisters tried to avoid the court and the intrigues of their brother, the duc du Maine, and his wife Anne Louise Bénédicte de Bourbon, the duchess, at the Château de Sceaux.\n\nShortly before his death in 1715, Louis XIV added a codicil to his will stating that if all legitimate members of the House of Bourbon, both those descended from Louis and more distant kinsmen, died out, the throne of France could be inherited by the duc du Maine and the comte de Toulouse. The decision was reversed after the death of Louis XIV when Louis Alexandre's cousin, Philippe II, Duke of Orléans, as the new regent, had the \"Parlement de Paris\" void that portion of the will.\n\nThe comte de Toulouse died at the Château de Rambouillet on 1 December 1737. He was buried in the village 12th century Saint-Lubin church. On 30 September 1766, the countess died at the Hôtel de Toulouse, the Parisian mansion not far from the Louvre which the count had bought from Phélypeaux, marquis de La Vrillière, in 1712. She too was buried in the family crypt in the Rambouillet church.\n\nUpon the count's death, the duc de Penthièvre, succeeded his father in his posts and titles. Because of the marriage of \"Mademoisellle de Penthièvre\" to Louis Philippe II, Duke of Orléans, the comte de Toulouse is an ancestor of the modern House of Orléans, which also descends from Toulouse's two surviving full sisters.\n\n"}
{"id": "1812940", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812940", "title": "Anna's Taqueria", "text": "Anna's Taqueria\n\nAnna's Taqueria is a chain of fast-service Mexican-fusion restaurants in the Boston area.\n\nAnna's is modeled after U.S. West Coast style Mexican cuisine, specifically the Mission-style burrito of San Francisco. Its menu offers only four core items: burritos, tacos, quesadillas and Mexican plates, and has been described as \"the best burritos for next to nothing\". The food is made using an assembly line-style process. The chain currently has six stores in operation, including two in Cambridge.\n\nIn April 2009, Anna's Taqueria was recipient of the \"Boston Phoenix's\" 'Best of Boston' Award for best fast food, while the company has won \"Boston Magazine\"'s 'Best of Boston' award multiple times.\n\nThe first Anna's Taqueria was founded by Michael Kamio and located in Brookline's Coolidge Corner in 1995 after a disagreement with his sister Mariko Kamio, who owns the competing Boca Grande chain. Since then, a second Brookline restaurant was opened in addition to the locations in Porter and Davis Squares, and restaurants were opened at MIT's Stratton Student Center and on Cambridge St. in Boston across from the Massachusetts General Hospital.\n\nIn 2004, Anna's Taqueria was made to pay $206,918 in back-wages to 127 employees. The Labor Department Wage and Hour Division found that the four stores had been employing individual employees at multiple locations and not paying the requisite time-and-a-half wages for time worked in excess of 40 hours between the months of January 2001 and January 2003.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1812950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812950", "title": "Louis Jean Marie de Bourbon, Duke of Penthièvre", "text": "Louis Jean Marie de Bourbon, Duke of Penthièvre\n\nLouis Jean Marie de Bourbon (16 November 1725 – 4 March 1793) was the son of Louis Alexandre de Bourbon and his wife Marie Victoire de Noailles. He was therefore a grandson of Louis XIV of France and his mistress, Madame de Montespan. From birth he was known as the Duke of Penthièvre. He also possessed the following titles: Prince of Lamballe (given later as a courtesy title to the duke's only surviving son); Prince of Carignano; Duke of Rambouillet; Duke of Aumale (1775); Duke of Gisors; Duke of Châteauvillain; Duke of Arc-en-Barrois; Duke of Amboise; Count of Eu; Count of Guingamp. He was the father in law of \"Philippe Égalité\".\n\nLouis Jean Marie de Bourbon was born at the Château de Rambouillet, the son of Louis XIV's youngest legitimised son with Madame de Montespan, the Count of Toulouse, and his wife, Marie Victoire de Noailles, one of the daughters of Anne Jules de Noailles, \"Duke of Noailles\". Since his mother acted as a surrogate parent to the young, orphaned Louis XV, the duke formed a close relationship with the young monarch, who was his godfather.\n\nAt the age of twelve, upon his father's death, he succeeded to his father's military posts and titles:\n\nOn 2 July 1733 at the age of eight, he was made a \"maréchal de camp\" (field marshal) and the next year, a \"lieutenant général\" (lieutenant general). In 1740, he received the \"Ordre de la Toison d'or\" from his Bourbon cousin, the King of Spain. In 1742, King Louis XV conferred upon him the \"Order of the Holy Spirit\". He served in the military under his maternal uncle, the maréchal-duc de Noailles, and fought brilliantly at Dettingen in 1743 and Fontenoy in 1745.\n\nAs the possessor of one of the largest fortunes in Europe, Louis Jean Marie was a very attractive marriage candidate, especially considering his close links with the French royal family.\n\nA suggestion was made that he marry his cousin, Louise Henriette de Bourbon, the eldest granddaughter of his paternal aunt, Louise-Françoise de Bourbon. This idea, however, was abandoned as Louise Henriette's mother wished her daughter to marry Louis Philippe d'Orléans, the heir of the House of Orléans.\n\nIn 1744, at the age of nineteen, Penthièvre married Princess Maria Teresa Felicitas of Modena, (1726-1754), the daughter of Francesco III d'Este, the sovereign Duke of Modena and Reggio, and his first cousin, Charlotte Aglaé d'Orléans. The young couple occupied a suite of apartments at Versailles which had previously been occupied by their joint ancestor Madame de Montespan. These apartments were used by the duke and his family until the reign of Louis XVI of France when the space was given to \"Mesdames\", the new king's spinster aunts, Louis XV's unmarried daughters. \n\nThe couple had seven children, only two of whom survived infancy:\n\nThe Duchess of Penthièvre died in childbirth in 1754, at the age of 28, her last child surviving her only a few hours. Inconsolable at the loss of his young wife, the duke never married again.\n\nAfter his wife's death, the duke lived increasingly away from the court at Versailles, dividing his time between two of his many country residences, the Château de Rambouillet and the Château de Sceaux. He devoted the majority of the rest of his life to dispensing charity. During the French Revolution, he gave refuge in Sceaux to the poet Jean Pierre Claris de Florian, who had formerly been one of his pages and his secretary at the Château d'Anet and the Hôtel de Toulouse (seat of the Banque de France since 1811) in Paris.\n\nIn 1791, he moved to the \"Château de Bizy\", at Vernon in Normandy, where his daughter joined him in April of that year after leaving her husband, the Duke of Orléans (\"Philippe Égalité\" during the French Revolution). Respected by the people because of his philanthropy, the duke was never bothered by the radicals as the French Revolution progressed. Others of his immediate family, however, were not spared. On 3 September 1792, his daughter-in-law, the princesse de Lamballe, was savagely murdered, and on 21 January 1793, his cousin Louis XVI was executed. He never saw the arrest of his daughter in April 1793, as he died on 4 March 1793 at Bizy. On the night of 6 to 7 March, his body was brought clandestinely to Dreux, where it was buried in the family crypt at the \"Collégiale Saint-Étienne\". Nine months later, on the afternoon of 21 November 1793 a group of Jacobin radicals and their workmen broke into the chapel, with the excuse of searching for lead and destroying feudal symbols, which had recently been outlawed. They smashed the armorial decorations, uprooted the coffins, and treated the remains of the royally-connected Penthievre family to a common pauper's burial, in a quicklime-coated pit in the nearby canons' cemetery. Similar treatment had recently been given to the remains of the duc's executed cousin King Louis XVI in Paris, and to their ancestors at the royal necropolis of St.Denis. The raid had yielded 1,252 pounds of lead for reuse as ammunition \"to fire at the enemies of the Revolution\". In 1798 the remains of the chapel were put up for auction, and demolished as recyclable building materials by the successful bidder, a timber merchant from Chartres.\n\nDuring his lifetime, the duc de Penthièvre had had one passion, that of collecting watches.\n\nPenthièvre was one of the wealthiest men of his day and probably the richest in France. He was known to be very charitable. Most of his vast riches derived from the fortune of \"La Grande Mademoiselle\", the first cousin of King Louis XIV.\n\nIn 1681, Louis XIV had given his consent that his cousin marry the duc de Lauzun, the only man she ever loved, on the condition she make the Duke of Maine, the newly legitimised son of the king and Mme de Montespan, her heir. All she could be made to accept, against her will, was to give the young duke the county of Eu and the principality of Dombes. Upon which, untrue to his word, Louis XIV refused to let her marry Lauzun.\n\nDu Maine's fortune was enlarged with many expensive gifts from his adoring father. His two sons inherited his fortune and when they both died childless, the duc de Penthièvre was the sole heir to du Maine's wealth. The châteaux at Sceaux, Anet, Aumale, Dreux and Gisors were part of this huge inheritance.\n\nIn addition, being his only child, the duc de Penthièvre was the only heir of the comte de Toulouse from whom he inherited the Hôtel de Toulouse in Paris, and the château de Rambouillet surrounded by the game-rich Rambouillet forest. The \"Hôtel de Toulouse\" was the family's residence in Paris. The duc de Penthièvre willed it to his daughter, Louise Marie Adélaïde de Bourbon. It was located opposite the Palais-Royal.\n\nOver the years, the duc de Penthièvre also acquired other estates:\n\n\nBecause his male heir, the prince de Lamballe, predeceased him in 1768, his only surviving child, his daughter, became the sole heir to his fortune. In 1769, she had married the Duke of Chartres, future duc d'Orléans, known to history as Philippe Égalité. As a result, what she managed (after the Bourbon Restoration) to recuperate of her fortune confiscated during the French Revolution, passed, upon her death in 1821, into the possession of the House of Orléans.\n\nThe lands of the \"Comté de Dreux\" (County of Dreux), had been given to the duc de Penthièvre by his cousin Louis XVI. In November 1783, after having sold to Louis XVI the château de Rambouillet and the immense rich-game forest attached to the estate - the latter being the main reason of the sale - Penthièvre transferred the nine bodies of his family (his parents, his wife and six of his seven children) from the 12th century Saint-Lubin church in the village of Rambouillet to the Collégiale Saint-Étienne de Dreux, where he himself was buried in March 1793. On November 1793, a revolutionary mob desecrated the family crypt and threw the ten bodies in a mass grave in the \"Collégiale\" cemetery (\"cimetière des Chanoines\"). In 1816, his daughter, Louise Marie Adélaïde de Bourbon, \"duchesse douairière d'Orléans\", had a new chapel built on the site of that grave, as the final resting place for the members of the \"House of Bourbon-Toulouse-Penthièvre\". After the accession to the throne of her son, Louis-Philippe, King of the French, the chapel was named Chapelle Royale de Dreux, and became the necropolis of the royal Orléans family. It contains the remains of 75 members of the Bourbon and Orléans families.\n\nA street in Paris near the Avenue des Champs Élysées is named for the duc de Penthièvre. At the site of n° 11 rue de Penthièvre, an \"hôtel particulier\" of the First French Empire period with a large garden, is believed to have once been the residence of the duc de Penthièvre's grandson, the future King of the French, Louis-Philippe, in his youth. In the late 19th century, n° 11 housed the American Embassy. This address became famous in the early 20th century as the \"salon de couture\" of the British designer, \"Lucile\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1812954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812954", "title": "Linda Thompson (actress)", "text": "Linda Thompson (actress)\n\nLinda Diane Thompson (born May 23, 1950) is an American songwriter/lyricist, former actress and beauty pageant winner; but she is perhaps best known as a cast member of \"Hee Haw\" as one of the \"Hee Haw Honeys.\" She was a longtime girlfriend of Elvis Presley before marrying Olympic decathlon champion Bruce Jenner, and legendary music producer David Foster.\n\nThompson was born and raised in Memphis, Tennessee, the daughter of Margie (née White) and Sanford Abel Thompson. Her older brother, Sam, was one of Elvis Presley's bodyguards.\n\nThompson was Miss Shelby County (1969) In September 1970, she was named \"Miss Mid-South Fair\" in Memphis. Some of her other titles are, \"Miss Liberty Bowl\", \"Memphis State's Golf Queen\", \"Miss Okra\" (Bells, Tennessee), and MSU's Homecoming Court. \nIn 1970, Thompson was named \"Miss Memphis State University\" and was third runner-up in the 1970 Miss Tennessee pageant (which is the state preliminary to the Miss America pageant).\n\nThompson was Miss Tennessee Universe in 1972, which is also known as Miss Tennessee USA and under the Miss USA and Miss Universe umbrella:\nJeanne LeMay Dumas, Thompson's best friend, recounts this first meeting with Elvis in an interview for her book, \"Elvis, Linda and Me\"\" and later became Elvis' personal secretary. Dumas said:\n\nIn 1977, Thompson became a regular on the television series \"Hee Haw\". She later had small one-episode roles in such television series as \"CHiPs\", \"Starsky & Hutch\", \"Vega$\", \"Fantasy Island\", \"The Fall Guy\" and \"Beverly Hills, 90210\".\n\nThompson starred in several television pilots, including \"Mars Base One\" and \"Two for Two\". She appeared in several films, including \"Three on a Meathook\" (1972), \"Rabbit Test\" (1978) and \"Original Intent\" (1991). She had a small role in \"The Bodyguard\" (1992).\n\nShe appeared as Linda Jenner in a workout video by then-husband Bruce Jenner (now known as Caitlyn Jenner), four documentaries about Elvis Presley between 1997 and 2004, and in the short-lived \"Princes of Malibu\", a reality series about then-husband David Foster's efforts to improve her two sons and herself.\n\nShe began her career as a lyricist with the Kenny Rogers single \"Our Perfect Song\" from his album \"The Heart of the Matter\" (1985). Thompson collaborated with composer Richard Marx on Josh Groban's first hit record, \"To Where You Are\", with composer Steve Dorff on the Celine Dion hit \"Miracle\", with Andreas Carlsson for \"Drowning\" by the Backstreet Boys, and composer David Foster on several compositions, including \"No Explanation\" for the film \"Pretty Woman\" (1990), and \"I Have Nothing\" for the film \"The Bodyguard\" (1992), for which they were nominated both for the Academy Award for Best Song in 1993 and the Grammy Award for Best Song Written Specifically for a Motion Picture or for Television in 1994, and \"Grown-Up Christmas List\". \n\nIn 1999, Linda Thompson, Clint Eastwood and Carole Bayer Sager wrote \"Why Should I Care\" for the film \"True Crime\". In 2001, she wrote \"Drowning\" for the American boyband Backstreet Boys. In 2011, Thompson, Foster and Jackie Evancho collaborated on the title track for Evancho's album \"Dream With Me\".\n\nThompson and Foster received the 2003 Emmy Award for Outstanding Music and Lyrics for \"Aren't They All Our Children\" for \"The Concert for World Children's Day\", which aired November 14, 2002.\n\n\"A Little Thing Called Life: From Elvis's Graceland to Bruce Jenner's Caitlyn & Songs in Between Hardcover\" – May 3, 2016\n\nOn July 6, 1972, Thompson attended a private movie screening hosted by Elvis Presley at the Memphian Theater in Memphis. She and Elvis hit it off and subsequently dated for 4 years before breaking up around Christmas 1976. They broke up because she wanted a \"normal\" life which was not possible with Elvis. However, they broke up on good terms and remained good friends until Elvis' death.\n\nIn 1980, Thompson began a relationship with former Olympic Gold Medal decathlete Bruce Jenner (now known as Caitlyn Jenner). The couple married on January 5, 1981 in Oahu, Hawaii. They have two sons together, Brandon and Sam Brody, known as Brody. The couple separated in 1986 and divorced thereafter.\n\nOn June 22, 1991, Thompson married Canadian composer and record producer David Foster; they divorced in 2005.\n\nThompson won a BMI Film & TV Award in 1994 for Most Performed Song from a Film (\"I Have Nothing\"), composed by Thompson and David Foster for the soundtrack for \"The Bodyguard.\" She shared Special Recognition Awards in 1997 and 2004 with several others for work related to the Olympics, including lyrics for the official 1996 Olympic theme song, \"The Power of the Dream\", sung by Celine Dion.\n"}
{"id": "1812961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812961", "title": "Breckland line", "text": "Breckland line\n\nThe Breckland line is a secondary railway line in the east of England that links in the west to in the east. The line runs through three counties: Cambridgeshire, Suffolk and Norfolk. It takes its name from the Breckland region of Norfolk, and passes through Thetford Forest.\n\nThe line is in length from where it branches off the Fen line north of to where it joins the Great Eastern Main Line south of Norwich. There are 12 stations on the line including the termini.\n\nThe line is part of the Network Rail Strategic Route 5, SRS 05.09 and part of SRS 05.05. It is classified as a secondary line, except between Cambridge and , which is classified as a London and South East commuter line. Passenger services on the Breckland line are operated by Greater Anglia (which manages all of the stations), CrossCountry, East Midlands Railway, and Great Northern.\n\nFollowing the successful opening of the Yarmouth and Norwich Railway, the Norwich & Brandon Railway was incorporated in 1844 to build a line between those two places. The Eastern Counties Railway was at the same time building a route from Newport in Essex through Cambridge via Ely to . This route would be the first route between Norwich and London.\n\nA month before opening the Yarmouth and Norwich Railway and the Norwich & Brandon Railway merged to become the Norfolk Railway.\n\nThe two lines opened on the same day, 30 July 1845, although the line only opened to a temporary station at Wensum, pending the completion of the Trowse swing bridge which was achieved in December 1845. Through services from Shoreditch (later known as ) to Norwich Thorpe station started on 15 December 1845.\n\nAlthough it was expected that locomotive changes would take place between the two companies at Brandon where an engine house had been built, the Norfolk Railway in fact operated trains to Ely. The ECR and its rival the Eastern Union Railway (EUR) were both sizing up the NR to acquire and expand their railway empire. The ECR trumped the EUR by taking over the NR, and became responsible for operating the services from 8 May 1848.\n\nBy the 1860s the railways in East Anglia were in financial trouble, and most were leased to the Eastern Counties Railway, which wished to amalgamate formally but could not obtain government agreement for this until an Act of Parliament on 7 August 1862, when the Great Eastern Railway (GER) was formed by the amalgamation.\n\nThe system settled down for the next six decades, apart from the disruption of the First World War. The difficult economic circumstances after the war led the Government to pass the Railways Act 1921 which led to the creation of the Big Four railway companies. The GER amalgamated with other railways to create the London and North Eastern Railway (LNER) on 1 January 1923.\n\nIn 1948 the line came under the British Railways Eastern Region.\n\n\n\nThe line is double-track throughout but is only electrified between Cambridge and Ely, and also between Norwich and Trowse Junction, at 25 kV AC. It has a loading gauge of W8, except for the section connecting the Ipswich–Ely line to the Ely–Peterborough line, which is W10. The line speed ranges between 40 and 90 mph.\n\nUntil 2012 the line retained its historic characteristics, with well preserved stations, semaphore signalling and, until spring 2009, lineside telegraph poles, along with sections of jointed rail on wooden sleepers. However, the two-stage Ely–Norwich re-signalling programme in August and December 2012 involved the closure of the nine local mechanical signal boxes and removal of the seven sets of manually-operated wooden gates at level crossings. The Cambridge signal box now controls the modern electronic interlockings which operate the lightweight LED signals, while the level crossings have been fully automated with barriers and warning lights.\n\nThe places served by the route are listed below, with Ordnance Survey grid references for the stations:\n\nPrickwillow station, between Ely and Shippea Hill stations, closed in 1850.\n\nSome of the stations on the Breckland line see just one stopping train in each direction per day, mostly in the Norwich direction in the morning and in the Cambridge direction in the afternoon or evening. Three stations on the line are request stops only: , , and . Harling Road and Eccles Road have 'peak hour' only services - 2 in each direction each day, Monday to Saturday (2 in the morning to Norwich, 2 westbound in the evening, one of which is operated by East Midlands Railway on weekdays only).\n\nPassenger services are operated by several companies:\n"}
{"id": "1812978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812978", "title": "Ratzlaff", "text": "Ratzlaff\n\nRatzlaff is a surname of German origin derived from the Slavic given name Ratislav, which is composed of the elements \"rad\" \"joyful\" and \"slav\" \"glory\" or \"praise\". The name may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1812992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812992", "title": "Bagdad, Tasmania", "text": "Bagdad, Tasmania\n\nBagdad is a small town north of Hobart, Tasmania. It is in the Southern Midlands Council.\n\nIn the days of the horse and buggy, Bagdad was an important rest area and horse-changing place for those continuing their journey up Constitution Hill. It is now an area of orchards and small mixed farms and a commuter settlement.\n\nThe town was named by the explorer Hugh Germain, a private in the Royal Marines. He was said by James Backhouse in his book \"A Narrative of a Visit to the Australian Colonies\", published in 1901, to carry two books in his saddlebags while traveling: the Bible and the \"Arabian Nights\", which he used as inspiration when he named places.\n\nBagdad Post Office opened on 1 December 1878.\n\nA railway line connected the town with Hobart from 1891 until 1947.\n\nIn April 2003, during the early part of the Iraq war, the town's website was bombarded by confused internet users from around the world trying to contact Iraqis.\n\nThe 2006 Census by the Australian Bureau of Statistics counted 996 persons in Bagdad on census night. Of these, 51.7% were male and 48.3% were female.\n\nThe majority of residents (86.9%) are of Australian birth, with another 2.6% from England.\n\nThe age distribution of Bagdad residents is comparable to that of the greater Australian population. 62.8% of residents were over 25 years in 2006, compared to the Australian average of 66.5%; and 37.2% were younger than 25 years, compared to the Australian average of 33.5%.\n\nBagdad Primary School was established on 14 January 1867 with a total of 22 students.\n\nFire destroyed the school's three classrooms on 26 January 1954, forcing the pupils to attend temporary schooling at the Bagdad Community Hall. The original headmaster's house survives as a classroom for kindergarten students.\n\nBagdad is located on the Midland Highway, which connects Hobart and Launceston.\n\n"}
{"id": "1812993", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812993", "title": "Galang Refugee Camp", "text": "Galang Refugee Camp\n\nGalang Refugee Camp accommodated Indochinese refugees from 1979 to 1996 on Galang Island in the Riau Islands of Indonesia. It is estimated that around 250,000 refugees passed through Galang during this period.\n\nGalang camp had two sections.\n\n\nPolicing was provided by the Indonesian police, while caseworkers and legal officers from participating countries and the United Nations came in on a less regular basis as needed. Relations between the internees and Indonesian police supervisors were not always easy. From time to time there were reports of considerable friction over social and administrative conditions in the camp.\n\nThe largest refugee movements were to the United States and Canada. Australia took a significant number, and was sometimes preferred by refugees with American family because Australia had shorter waiting periods and less red tape. Australia also took professionals with special skills, while the United States focused on family reunification, in keeping with its overall immigration and national vision. Denmark and Switzerland occasionally took refugees with special health needs for which their governments had infrastructure. Japan and Germany provided money and material.\n\nAn independent German charitable organization ran a boat, the 'Cap Anamur', which rescued refugees floundering at sea; Germany (then the Federal Republic of, or West, Germany) accepted these individuals for resettlement, but with strict limitations on family reunification. This put some Galang refugees in the difficult emotional situation of rejoicing to learn that a loved one had been saved at sea—even while being informed that the family member would not be able to live in the same country for many years.\n\nMany individuals and families lived long periods of time in one or both of the camps at Galang. Babies were born, and some people died, although there was a basic but adequate hospital. Of special note were the many young single men, mostly Vietnamese, who had emigrated to establish a better life for their families. Not only were they trapped with nothing to do but women were in short supply and usually enjoyed family protection. The protection of young women in the camps, particularly, was a difficult issue for the UNHCR staff whose job included monitoring social conditions in the camp. There were many reports of ill-treatment of young women in the camp.\n\nNevertheless, many refugees established such amenities as gardens and coffee houses. Informal social networks provided some degree of support, especially for women. The more fortunate in the camp were able to trade items sent to them by family or friends from outside. Despite such apparent comforts, the boredom and uncertainty, as well as normal rivalries and tensions common to any small town, put an undertone of unhappiness into camp life. Disturbances occurred within the camp from time to time, and in 1994 there was prolonged rioting amongst discontented detainees.\n\nRefugees left the camp after they had been assigned locations for resettlement and sponsors had agreed to provide financial assistance. Upon approval, the refugees gathered at the dock clutching plastic bags with their few possessions. First, usually at night, they boarded a ferry boat to Singapore. For many, particularly Cambodians, when the modern skyline came into view, exubaration gave way to apprehension. For those who had never flown, concern about the new country was amplified by concern about the airplanes. For others, the time in Singapore was a pleasant reminder of urban pleasures once enjoyed and soon to be restored. After a day or two in the small Singapore camp, the emigres were loaded onto planes chartered by ICM (International Committee for Migration) for the flight to Oakland, California or other destinations.\n\nGalang camp was closed in 1996 seven years after the Comprehensive Plan of Action for Indo-Chinese Refugees was adopted. All the Vietnamese refugees had been repatriated by the UNHCR. The transfer of the camp (technically, \"Sinam Camp\") from the UNHCR to the Indonesian Batam Industrial Development Authority (BIDA) took place officially in 1997. Most boat people who arrived in Galang were transferred from other islands like Natuna, Tarempa, Anambas.\n\nGalang camp had many facilities and offices such as a camp administration office, PMI (\"Palang Merah Indonesia\" or Indonesian Red Cross Hospital) and UNHCR offices/staff premises. Many non-government organisations such as Save the Children and Écoles Sans Frontières also operated schools in the camp. Most refugees stayed in wooden long houses or makeshift accommodation. Their main activities in the camp were to study English and other languages, or learn vocational skills, while waiting for the results of their applications to determine their refugees status and resettlement in other countries.\n\nToday, Galang Island is managed by the Batam Industrial Development Authority (BIDA). In 1992, according to Presidential Decree No. 28/1992, the expansion of BIDA Working Area included Rempang Island, Galang Island and small islands nearby. BIDA built 6 bridges which were inaugurated on 25 January 1998. The bridges connect Batam Island - Tonton Island - Nipah Island - Setoko Island - Rempang Island - Galang Island - Galang Baru (New Galang) Island in order to develop all these islands.\n\nIndonesia is not a signatory to the 1951 United Nations Convention on Refugees so Indonesia's international legal obligations are somewhat different from countries which have signed the Convention.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1813004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813004", "title": "West Ham (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "West Ham (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nWest Ham is a constituency created in 1997 and represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament since 2005 by Lyn Brown, a member of the Labour Party.\n\n1997–2010: The London Borough of Newham wards of Bemersyde, Forest Gate, Hudsons, New Town, Park, Plaistow, Plashet, Stratford, Upton, and West Ham.\n\n2010–present: The London Borough of Newham wards of Canning Town North, Canning Town South, Custom House, Forest Gate North, Forest Gate South, Green Street West, Plaistow North, Plaistow South, Stratford and New Town, and West Ham.\n\nThe constituency covers the western half of Newham stretching from the Thames just east of Canary Wharf to Stratford. The boundary changes that took effect for the 2010 general election expanded the constituency by adding Canning Town from the abolished Poplar and Canning Town constituency, whilst losing Silvertown to the redrawn East Ham. The boundary with the East Ham constituency was modified to align with local government ward boundaries.\n\nThe seat was created in 1997 by the fourth periodic review (following the first such review in 1945), undertaken by the Boundary Commission, from portions of the Newham North West and Newham South seats.\n\nThe area's elections to date, including both forerunner seats have returned safe majorities for the Labour Party since the last Conservative for the smaller, denser divisions from 1931-1934; going back further, West Ham South had in 1892 sent Keir Hardie to the Commons who co-founded the party.\n\nBanks held this seat at the 2001 general election with nearly 70% of the vote and a local record majority of 53.5% of the vote.\n\nThe 2010 result, not only on the notional result, accommodating boundary changes, but also on predecessor-successor seat analysis shows that the main beneficiary of the runner-up Respect vote, as they did not have a candidate in that year, was the Labour candidate. The 2015 result made the seat the 14th safest of Labour's 232 seats by percentage of majority.\n\nThe first member Tony Banks served the main predecessor seat, Newham North West from 1983 until his retirement in 2005, and was Minister for Sport (1997-1999).\n\nHelped by proximity to the City of London and exporting businesses in areas such as Hackney, Shoreditch and the Thames Gateway, the area is only gradually recovering in terms of employment rates from the deep East End decline, particularly decline of the dockers' industry here of the 1950s to the 1980s, with an immediate boost from the 2010 creation of the London Olympic Village and Park. In November 2012, workless claimants who were registered jobseekers were significantly higher than the national average of 3.8%, at 7.7% of the population based on a statistical compilation by \"The Guardian\", though not the highest in London. Within this figure is a skew toward male unemployment which was at 9.8%\n\nNow that the Olympic stadium has become West Ham United's home the club is located in the constituency that shares its name; their previous ground at Upton Park was actually in the neighbouring East Ham seat.\n\nIn the 1991 census just over 43% of residents were non-white. By the time of the 2001 census, people who identified as white made up 44.1% of the population and 35.3% of residents were born outside the UK, and in the 2011 census the borough saw an increase in those of mixed colour ethnicity, at 4.6% and saw the lowest proportion of people of solely white ethnicity at 29.0%, the figure for those of black ethnicity had fallen to 19.6%, and those of South Asian ethnicity had risen to 43.5% of the population.\n\nIn terms of religion the British Asian population is more than 50% Muslim in this constituency. By the time of the 2005 general election, only seven of the 646 constituencies had more Muslims than West Ham. Respect fielded a candidate for the 2005 election, hoping to benefit from opposition to the Iraq war; in the end this was not enough to unseat Labour's replacement for Banks, Lyn Brown, but Respect managed to take nearly 20% of the vote.\n\nThe Green Party originally selected Jane Lithgow as their candidate for the 2010 election.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1813005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813005", "title": "Xiantiandao", "text": "Xiantiandao\n\nThe Xiantiandao (, or \"Way of the Primordial\"; Vietnamese: ', Japanese: '), also simply Tiandao (; Vietnamese: ', Japanese: ') is one of the most productive currents of Chinese folk religious sects such as the White Lotus Sect, characterised by representing the principle of divinity as feminine and by a concern for salvation (moral completion) of mankind.\n\nXiantiandao was founded in Jiangxi in the 17th century Qing dynasty as an offshoot of the Venerable Officials' teaching of fasting (), a branch of the Dacheng ( \"Great Vehicle\") or Yuandun ( \"Sudden Stillness\") eastern proliferation of Luoism. It has also been traced to the earlier \"Wugongdao\" ( \"Way of the Five Lords\"), a Yuan dynasty offshoot of the White Lotus tradition.\n\nThe Xiantiandao religions were considered heterodox and suppressed throughout the history of China; they are still mostly forbidden in Mainland China, yet they thrive in Taiwan where at least 7% of the population adheres to some sect derived from the Xiantiandao.\n\nThe Xiantiandao movement is not limited only to Chinese-speaking countries, with at least one sect, the , active in Japan. In Vietnam, \"Tiên Thiên Đạo\" doctrines ultimately influenced the rise of the \"Minh Đạo\" sects since the 17th century and subsequently of Caodaism in the 20th century.\n\nSects that are or have been considered as part of the Xiantiandao stream are:\n\nThe sect can be traced back to the Yuan dynasty (1271-1368). It has been associated to the White Lotus tradition, a rebellious sect of that time, especially by anti-sect political centers and religious antagonists.\n\nThe differentiation of the Xiantiandao subtradition out of the general field of Chinese popular sects is commonly attributed to the so-called ninth patriarch Huang Dehui (1684-1750). The Yiguandao and the Tongshanshe sects legitimize themselves by tracing their patriarchal lines through Huang Dehui to the mythical patriarchs of early Chinese history.\n\nThe patriarchal lines of these two sects are largely identical down to the thirteenth patriarch Yang Shouyi (1796-1828), after whom the lines split and ultimately lead to the development of the Yiguandao and the Tongshanshe as separate sects. The other groups maintain a different model of linear patriarchal succession.\nXiantiandao doctrine holds that the origin of the universe is Wusheng Laomu (), creatrix of all living beings. These children went astray and ended up in the earthly world where they forgot their divine origin. The wheel of reincarnation started and the return to Heaven was no longer possible.\n\nFor this reason, the Mother sent a range of enlightened beings to bring Her children back to Heaven. The Dīpankara Buddha () was the first salvage. Gautama Buddha afterwards was the second enlightened. The remaining beings will be saved by the Buddha of the future, Maitreya.\n\nThe individual Xiantiandao sects all see themselves as carrying out the Mother's intentions by converting people and guiding them on a path of cultivation and reform that will ultimately lead them back to Heaven. The cultivation urged on members is divided into \"inner\" and \"outer\" work (\"nèigōng\", \"wàigōng\"), that is, meditation and good deeds, so as to accumulate merits and purify the mind.\n\nAs the focus is on a primordial deity superior to all other gods, Xiantiandao sects claim to represent a Way (Dào) that transcends, comes before, and thus overcomes all existing religions. Consequently, a syncretism of features is noticeable in some groups. Most Xiantiandao groups rely heavily on automatic writing as a means of communicating with the Mother and lower-ranking deities.\n\nAlong with the written works of the founding patriarchs, spirit-writing provides a distinct corpus of scriptures for each individual sect, that develops the shared themes in different directions and serves to differentiate the individual group from related sects. The variations on the central theme are many: for example, different sects use different names for the supreme deity, the Yiguandao and the Tongshanshe calling her \"Venerable Mother of Limitless Pole\" (\"Wuji Laomu\") and the Yaochidao the \"Mother of the Jasper Lake\" (\"Yaochimu\").\n\nThe Daoyuan diverges from the common maternal pattern by describing the supreme deity as male, naming him \"Holiest Venerable Patriarch of the Primordial Heaven\" (\"Zhisheng Xiantian Laozu\"). Despite these and many other differences in liturgy, organization, and doctrine, ultimately each Xiantiandao sect represents a variation on a central theme. Other movements have significantly departed: the Tiandi teachings movements have shifted to a focus on the Tian, while Caodaism gives centrality to the Cao Đài (\"Highest Power\").\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1813007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813007", "title": "Public holidays in the Republic of the Congo", "text": "Public holidays in the Republic of the Congo\n\nThe following holidays are public holidays but the date on which each occurs varies, according to its corresponding calendar, and thus has no set date. In order in which they occur:\n\nNew Year's Day, Easter, Labor Day, Independence Day, All Saints' Day and Christmas Day are widely recognized and celebrated holidays. The other holidays listed are officially recognized by the government's Department of Labor (Direction Départementale du Travail) and are granted to government workers; the government requires that businesses operating in the country also recognize them, though employees, if even familiar with them, tend to prefer working as usual (with government-mandated overtime wages) on those days.\n\n"}
{"id": "1813019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813019", "title": "District of Peć", "text": "District of Peć\n\nThe District of Peć or District of Peja (; or \"Pećki okrug\") is one of the seven districts (the higher-level administrative divisions) of Kosovo. It has its seat in the city of Peć.\n\nThe district has three municipalities and 118 other settlements \n\nIn the 2011 census, Albanians ranked as the most populous group in the district, making up 92.6% of the population. All municipalities in the district have Albanian majority. In the 2011 census, Albanians are the majority in: Peć (91.21%), Klina (96.7%), and Istok (92.02%).\n\nEthnic groups in 2011 census:\nAccording to the 1991 census, the population of the Peć municipality included 75.46% Albanians, 11.56% Serbs and Montenegrins, and 7.73% Muslims by nationality. The population of the Istok municipality included 76.68% Albanians, 12.70% Serbs and Montenegrins, and 7.11% Muslims by nationality. The population of the Klina municipality included 85.93% Albanians, and 9.16% Serbs and Montenegrins.\n\n"}
{"id": "1813021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813021", "title": "A Stroll in the Pork", "text": "A Stroll in the Pork\n\nA Stroll in the Pork is a 1992 EP released by Raymond Watts (as PIG) Originally released in the United States by Concrete Records and in the United Kingdom by Contempo Records. Re-released in 1998 in Japan by Blue Noise Records.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1813022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813022", "title": "Evangelical Lutheran Free Church (Germany)", "text": "Evangelical Lutheran Free Church (Germany)\n\nThe Evangelical Lutheran Free Church (German: \"Evangelisch-Lutherische Freikirche\") is a confessional Lutheran denomination based in Germany and Austria. It currently consists of 1,470 members in 15 congregations, primarily located in former East Germany. It also maintains a seminary for the training of pastors in the city of Leipzig.\n\nThe Evangelical Lutheran Free Church is a member of the Confessional Evangelical Lutheran Conference, a worldwide organization of Lutheran church bodies of the same beliefs. It is independent of the Evangelical Church in Germany and can be classified as a free church as it is an independent denomination.\n\nThe ELFK (acronym based on its German name) formed in 1876 in reaction to the perceived deviations from Scripture and the Lutheran Confessions by some of the German state churches. In its early years many ELFK pastors were trained in Lutheran Church–Missouri Synod seminaries in the U.S., until a seminary was established in Leipzig in 1921. The ELFK maintained strong relations with the LCMS until 1987, when fellowship was suspended on account of the LCMS's refusal to break fellowship with the less-conservative West German-based Independent Evangelical-Lutheran Church. In 1993 the ELFK joined with the strongly confessional Wisconsin Evangelical Lutheran Synod and others in forming the Confessional Evangelical Lutheran Conference.\n\nThe Evangelical Lutheran Free Church teaches that the Bible is the only authoritative source for doctrine. It subscribes to the Lutheran Confessions (the Book of Concord, 1580) as accurate presentations of what Scripture teaches, that Jesus is the center of Scripture and the only way to eternal salvation, and that the Holy Spirit uses the gospel alone in Word and Sacraments (Baptism and Holy Communion) to bring people to faith in Jesus as Savior and keep them in that faith, strengthening them in their daily life of sanctification.\n\nFellowship between the Evangelical Lutheran Free Church and other church groups is established only upon investigation and confirmation that both church groups hold complete unity in scriptural doctrine and practice.\n\nThe Evangelical Lutheran Free Church is in fellowship with the members of the Confessional Evangelical Lutheran Conference, all of which meet this requirement. It is also a member of said organization.\n\nThe Lutheran Theological Seminary is a seminary of the Evangelical Lutheran Free Church in Leipzig, Germany. The seminary trains students to become pastors for the Evangelical Lutheran Free Church or for member church bodies of the Confessional Evangelical Lutheran Conference.\n\n"}
{"id": "1813036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813036", "title": "Mid Dorset and North Poole (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Mid Dorset and North Poole (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nMid Dorset and North Poole is a constituency represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament since 2015 by Michael Tomlinson, a Conservative.\n\n1997–2010: The District of Purbeck wards of Bere Regis, Lytchett Matravers, Lytchett Minster, St Martin, and Wareham, the District of East Dorset wards of Corfe Mullen Central, Corfe Mullen North, and Corfe Mullen South, and the Borough of Poole wards of Alderney, Broadstone, Canford Heath, Canford Magna, and Creekmoor.\n\n2010–present: The District of Purbeck wards of Bere Regis, Lytchett Matravers, Lytchett Minster and Upton East, Lytchett Minster and Upton West, St Martin, and Wareham, the District of East Dorset wards of Colehill East, Colehill West, Corfe Mullen Central, Corfe Mullen North, Corfe Mullen South, and Wimborne Minster, and the Borough of Poole wards of Broadstone, Canford Heath East, Canford Heath West, and Merley and Bearwood.\n\nThe constituency was created in 1997 from parts of the seats of North Dorset (Corfe Mullen Central, Corfe Mullen North, Corfe Mullen South, Lytchett Matravers, and Lytchett Minster wards), Poole (Broadstone, Canford Heath, Canford Magna, and Creekmoor wards), South Dorset (Bere Regis, St Martin, and Wareham wards), and Bournemouth West (Alderney ward). In 2010, Colehill and Wimborne Minster were added to the seat from North Dorset, Alderney was moved back to Bournemouth West, and Creekmoor back to Poole.\n\nIn September 2016, the Boundary Commission suggested abolishing Mid Dorset and North Poole. Parts of the constituency would form part of new Blandford & Wimborne and Broadstone, Ferndown & Kinson constituencies, whilst south-westerly parts of the constituency would be included in the updated boundaries of the South Dorset constituency.\n\nThis area includes the north of the Purbeck Hills Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty and two touristic high-end towns, namely Wimborne Minster with its traditional tearooms, towering inland Minster Church and Wareham at one end of Poole Harbour. Income levels are close to the national average, taking into account the high proportion of pensioners living across the area. and levels of rented and social housing are below the national average, particularly levels seen in cities.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1813037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813037", "title": "Arkansas State Capitol", "text": "Arkansas State Capitol\n\nThe Arkansas State Capitol, often called the Capitol Building, is the home of the Arkansas General Assembly, and the seat of the Arkansas state government that sits atop Capitol Hill at the eastern end of the Capitol Mall in Little Rock, Arkansas.\n\nIn 1899, the St. Louis architect George R. Mann visited the governor of Arkansas Daniel W. Jones, and presented his drawings of his winning competition design from 1896 for the Montana State Capitol, which had not yet been built in their state capital of Helena. They were hung on the walls of the old Capitol to generate interest in a new building. The drawings' attractiveness eased the passage of the appropriation bills for the new building, and also drew attention to the architect. In 1899, Mann was selected as architect by a seven-member commission that included future governor George W. Donaghey. Donaghey opposed Mann's selection and advocated a national design competition, but the majority of the commission voted for Mann. After Donaghey was elected governor in 1908, he forced Mann off the project and selected Cass Gilbert to finish the Capitol.\n\nConstruction took 16 years, from 1899 to 1915. The Capitol was built on the site of the state penitentiary and prisoners helped construct the building. They lived in a dormitory that was left on the Capitol grounds while construction was taking place.\n\nThe Capitol foundations were aligned incorrectly by their original builder, future Governor George Donaghey. He centered the building on the centerline of Fifth Street (now Capitol Avenue), but he aligned the building north-south using the still-standing penitentiary walls as a guide without recognizing that Fifth Street was not aligned east-west; like other \"east-west\" downtown Little Rock streets, it runs parallel to the Arkansas River at a slight angle off true east-west. Therefore, the structure is in a north-south manner from end-to-end, which does not fit the grid street pattern of Little Rock's downtown. This also led to a slight S-curve in the formal entrance walkway between the foot of Capitol Avenue and the front steps of the Capitol.\n\nBecause of its monumental dome, the State Capitol has served as a filming location to stand in for the United States Capitol in Washington, D.C.\n\n\nThe exterior of the Capitol is made of limestone, which was quarried in Batesville, Arkansas. Though it was initially stipulated a total cost for the envisioned capitol would not to exceed $1 million, total construction cost eventually was $2.2 million (or $320 million in 2014 dollars). The front entrance doors are made of bronze, which are 10 feet (3 metres) tall, four inches (10 cm) thick and were purchased from Tiffany & Company in New York for $10,000. The cupola/dome is covered in 24 karat gold leaf. The government was formerly located in the Old State House. The structure also used Yule marble.\n\nThe Arkansas State Capitol grounds has multiple monuments and memorials representing various parts of the state's past and present. They include the Monument to Confederate Soldiers, Liberty Bell replica, Bauxite and Granite Boulders, Confederate War Prisoners Memorial, Law Enforcement Officers Memorial, Vietnam Veterans Memorial, Arkansas Medal of Honor Memorial, Memorial Fountain, Monument to Confederate Women, and \"Little Rock Nine\" Civil Rights Memorial.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1813050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813050", "title": "Toba Kakar Range", "text": "Toba Kakar Range\n\nThe Toba Kakar Mountains (Pashto توبه کاکړۍ) Urdu: توبہ کاکڑ) are a southern offshoot of the Himalayas in the Balochistan region of Pakistan, near the border with Afghanistan. The historical route through the mountains is known as the Bolan Pass.\nThe mountains originally received media attention in August 1979; when evidence emerged that Pakistan may be using them as a potential workspace towards development of nuclear weapons. Again in April 1981, the United States government raised concerns, this time with Senator Alan Cranston referring specifically to a nuclear test site, built into the side of the mountains, 40 kilometres from Afghanistan. As a result of this, Congress amended existing legislation that would terminate financial assistance to Pakistan in the event of any nuclear test, so that it could not be waived by the president.\n\nIn late 2004, John Lehman announced that the United States now had the whereabouts of Osama bin Laden narrowed down to a 16-square kilometre area in the Toba Kakar mountains; though they were hesitant to enter the area, Lehman using the reference that it would be \"another Vietnam\". Pakistan's Major General Shaukat Sultan commented the claims of bin Laden being in that mountain range were \"ridiculous\" and without basis.\n\n"}
{"id": "1813054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813054", "title": "List of Power Rangers characters", "text": "List of Power Rangers characters\n\nThis is a list of characters from the Power Rangers universe – both Rangers and supporting characters. Minor characters (including Monsters, foot soldiers, cross-over characters, and spin-off characters) may not be listed.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1813059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813059", "title": "The Ruffian on the Stair", "text": "The Ruffian on the Stair\n\nThe Ruffian On the Stair is a play by British playwright Joe Orton which was first broadcast on BBC Radio in 1964, in a production by John Tydeman. It is an unsympathetic yet comedic one-act portrayal of working class England, as played out by a couple and a mysterious young man who toys with their lives. It was based on \"The Boy Hairdresser\", a novel by Orton and his lover Kenneth Halliwell. The title and play are based on a few lines from poet and dramatist William Ernest Henley: \"Madam Life's a piece in bloom, / Death goes dogging everywhere: / She's the tenant of the room, / He's the ruffian on the stair.\" \"Ruffian\" is not as renowned as other works such as \"Loot\" and \"What the Butler Saw\", but it is still staged on occasion. \n\nJoyce: \"Have you got an appointment today?\"\n\nMike: \"Yes, I’m to be at King’s Cross station at eleven. I’m meeting a man in the toilet.\"\n\nJoyce: \"You always go to such interesting places.\"\n\nMike and Joyce are a poor London couple living in a bedsit. Mike is a self-described \"derelict\", ex-boxer Roman Catholic thug from Donegal, who—despite claiming the dole—has a sideline as a proto-white van man, running people down for cash. Joyce is an ex-prostitute, and a Protestant from London. \n\nOne day while Joyce is alone, a young and attractive man named Wilson arrives, asking for a room. During the conversation, he terrifies and threatens her, demanding to know where Mike's gun is. It becomes clear that he has been watching the flat for some time. Nevertheless, he leaves without harming her, despite having found and aimed the gun at her head. Mike returns, and a distraught Joyce relates the story. Typically, Mike tells Joyce she's overreacting and actually sympathizes with the young man, much to Joyce's astonishment and aggravation. The next day, when Joyce is left alone with her thoughts, a series of sudden, violent noises emanate from the stairs outside their apartment door and the rest of the building (including broken windows, a broken lock, and the sound of a man urinating on the floorboards). She pleads loudly for the perpetrator to stop, which they finally do by the end of the scene but not after a prolonged aural torture for Joyce. Naturally, she assumes it is Wilson, and, upon relating this incident to Mike, she is met with a similar lack of support. \n\nWhen Wilson does turn up again, he charms Mike using a claimed Irish ancestry, religious conviction, and his own considerable personal charms. During the conversation, the audience learns that Mike's last \"job\" was to kill Wilson's beloved elder brother Frank, with whom Wilson had been engaged in an incestuous affair. Wilson is damaged, grief-stricken, and after revenge; an unusual revenge, however, as he seeks to be shot by Mike (\"I don't wanna be injured. I want to be dead\") in order to rejoin Frank. To goad Mike into the killing, he claims to be having sex with Joyce, and to have known her since her days as a prostitute; in fact, it was Frank who had sex with Joyce (and other women) during his relationship with Wilson. The following day, Mike leaves the flat wracked with jealousy, despite Joyce's protestations of innocence. Wilson arrives again, removing his trousers and wedging the door shut, in order that Mike—upon his return—will think that he's having sex with Joyce. As Joyce points out, the situation is absurd; Wilson is \"only a little boy\" (the script suggests he's 18), and to make the situation more ridiculous, Mike doesn't come home when expected. Wilson sadly concludes that he's failed at this just like everything else, and moves to get dressed; moved, however, Joyce puts her arms around him. \n\nIt's at this point that Mike returns. Enraged, he shoots twice, killing Wilson with the second shot. Wilson survives long enough to reiterate his wish to be buried with Frank, then collapses. Mike and Joyce are both horrified by what has happened, but Joyce recovers quickly, planning what they'll tell the police. Suddenly, they notice that the first shot from Mike's gun knocked over Joyce's goldfish bowl, killing the fish inside. Both of them are far more upset about the goldfish than the dead boy, and thus the play ends.\n\n\nPeter Gill directed the play on stage at the Royal Court Theatre on 21 August 1966.\n\n\nTogether with \"The Erpingham Camp\", the play was then performed the following year at the Royal Court, also directed by Gill, in a double bill, \"Crimes of Passion\".\n\n\nIn 1973, \"ITV Sunday Night Theatre\" broadcast a production of the play directed by David Cunliffe, starring Judy Cornwell as Joyce, Michael Bryant as Mike, and Billy Hamon as Wilson.\n"}
{"id": "1813062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813062", "title": "The Swining", "text": "The Swining\n\nThe Swining is a 1993 album released by Raymond Watts (as PIG). It was released exclusively in Japan, being re-released in the United States by Cleopatra Records in 1999 as part of \"The Swining/Red Raw & Sore\". Music videos for the songs \"The Fountain of Miracles\" and \"The Seven Veils\" were filmed but remain unreleased outside Japan. They exist in bootleg form around the internet and YouTube.\n\n\nAll songs were written by Raymond Watts.\n\n"}
{"id": "1813070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813070", "title": "Helmuth Hübener", "text": "Helmuth Hübener\n\nHelmuth Günther Guddat Hübener (8 January 1925 – 27 October 1942), was the youngest opponent of the Third Reich to be sentenced to death by the Special People's Court (\"Volksgerichtshof\") and executed.\n\nHübener came from an apolitical, religious family in Hamburg, Germany. He belonged to The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church), as did his mother and grandparents. His adoptive father, Hugo, a Nazi sympathizer, gave him the name Hübener.\n\nSince early childhood, Hübener had been a member of the Boy Scouts, an organization strongly supported by the LDS Church, but in 1935 the national socialists banned scouting from Germany. He then joined the Hitler Youth, as required by the government, but would later disapprove of \"Kristallnacht\", when the Nazis, including the Hitler Youth, destroyed Jewish businesses and homes.\n\nWhen one of the leaders in his local congregation, a new convert of under two years, undertook to ban Jews from attending its religious services, Hübener found himself at odds with the new policy, but continued to attend services with like-minded friends as the Latter-day Saints locally debated the issue. His friend and fellow resistance fighter Rudolf \"Rudi\" Wobbe would later report that of the two thousand Latter-day Saints in the Hamburg area, seven were pro-Nazi, but five of them happened to be in his and Hübener's St. Georg Branch (congregation), thus stirring controversy with the majority who were non- or anti-Nazis.\n\nAfter Hübener finished middle school in 1941, he began an apprenticeship in administration at the Hamburg Social Authority (\"Sozialbehörde\"). He met other apprentices there, one of whom, Gerhard Düwer, he would later recruit into his resistance movement. At a bathhouse, he met new friends, one of whom had a communist family background and, as a result, he began listening to enemy radio broadcasts. Listening to these was then strictly forbidden in Nazi Germany, being considered a form of treason. In the summer of that same year, Hübener discovered his older half-brother Gerhard's shortwave radio in a hallway closet. It had been given to Gerhard early that year by a soldier returning from service in France. Helmuth began listening to the BBC on his own, and he used what he heard to compose various anti-national socialist texts and anti-war leaflets, of which he also made many copies. The leaflets were designed to bring to people's attention how skewed the official reports about World War II from Berlin were, as well as to point out Adolf Hitler's, Joseph Goebbels's, and other leading Nazis' criminal behaviour. Other themes covered by Hübener's writings were the war's futility and Germany's looming defeat. He also mentioned the mistreatment sometimes meted out in the Hitler Youth.\n\nIn one of his pamphlets, for example, he wrote:\nIn late 1941, his listening involved three friends: Karl-Heinz Schnibbe and Rudi Wobbe, who were fellow Latter-day Saints, and later Gerhard Düwer. Hübener had them help him distribute about 60 different pamphlets, all containing typewritten material from the British broadcasts. They distributed them throughout Hamburg, using such methods as surreptitiously pinning them on bulletin boards, inserting them into letterboxes, and stuffing them in coat pockets.\n\nOn 5 February 1942, Helmuth Hübener was arrested by the Gestapo at his workplace, the Hamburg Social Authority in the Bieberhaus in Hamburg. While trying to translate the pamphlets into French and have them distributed among prisoners of war, he had been noticed by co-worker and Nazi Party member Heinrich Mohn, who denounced him.\n\nOn 11 August 1942, at age 17, Hübener was tried as an adult by the Special People's Court (\"Volksgerichtshof\") in Berlin, who were in charge of matters of treason. Hübener was sentenced to death. After the sentence was read, Hübener faced the judges and said, \"Now I must die, even though I have committed no crime. So now it's my turn, but your turn will come.\" He hoped his confrontational tactics would focus the judge's wrath on him and spare his companions. \n\nAs stated in the proclamation, Hübener was found guilty of conspiracy to commit high treason and treasonous furthering of the enemy's cause. He was sentenced not only to death, but also to permanent loss of his civil rights, which meant the prison guards were allowed to torture and abuse him, and he was not allowed bedding or blankets in his cold cell.\n\nIt was highly unusual for the Nazis to try an underaged defendant, much less sentence him to death, but the court stated that Hübener had shown more than average intelligence for a boy his age. This, along with his general and political knowledge, and his behaviour before the court, made Hübener, in the court's eyes, a boy with a far more developed mind than was usually to be found in someone of his age. For this reason, the court stated, Hübener was to be punished as an adult.\n\nHübener's lawyers, his mother, and the Berlin Gestapo appealed for clemency in his case, hoping to have his sentence commuted to life imprisonment. In their eyes, the fact that Hübener had confessed fully and shown himself to be still morally uncorrupted were points in his favour. The Reich Youth Leadership (\"Reichsjugendführung\") disagreed, however, and stated that the danger posed by Hübener's activities to the German people's war effort made the death penalty necessary. On 27 October 1942, the Nazi Ministry of Justice upheld the Special People's Court verdict. Hübener was only told of the Ministry's decision at 1:05 p.m. on the scheduled day of execution.\n\nOn 27 October, at the age of 17, he was beheaded by guillotine in the execution room at Plötzensee Prison in Berlin at 8:13 p.m.. His two friends, Schnibbe and Wobbe, who had also been arrested, were given prison sentences of five and ten years respectively.\n\nIn 1937, the president of the LDS Church, Heber J. Grant, had visited Germany and urged the members to remain, get along, and not cause trouble. Consequently, some church members saw Hübener as a troublemaker who made things difficult for other Latter-day Saints in Germany. This recommendation did not change after \"Kristallnacht\", which occurred the year following Grant's visit, after which he evacuated all non-German Latter-day Saint missionaries.\n\nLocal Latter-day Saint branch president, Arthur Zander, was a supporter of the Nazi Party, and had affixed a notice to the meetinghouse entrance stating \"Jews not welcome\". Ten days after the arrest of Hübener, on 15 February 1942, Zander excommunicated the young man demonstratively, without consulting his church superiors or holding the church court normally prerequisite for excommunication or other discipline.\n\nThe day of his execution, Hübener wrote to a fellow branch member, \"I know that God lives and He will be the Just Judge in this matter… I look forward to seeing you in a better world!\" (Excerpt from a letter written by Hübener, the only one believed to still exist.)\n\nIn 1946, four years later and after the war, Hübener was posthumously reinstated into the LDS Church by new mission president, Max Zimmer, saying the excommunication was not carried through with the proper procedures. He was also posthumously rebaptized, ordained an elder, and endowed in 1948.\n\nA youth centre, school and a pathway in Hamburg are named after Helmuth Hübener. The latter runs between Greifswalder Straße and Kirchenweg in Sankt Georg. At the former Plötzensee Prison in Berlin, an exhibit about young Helmuth Hübener's resistance, trial, and execution was located in the former guillotine chamber that has since been changed to highlight other victims. Floral tributes are often placed in memory of Hübener and others put to death by the Nazis there.\n\nHübener's story has been the subject of various literary, dramatic, and cinematic works. In 1970, German author Günter Grass published the book \"Local Anaesthetic\", about the Hübener group.\n\nIn 1979 Thomas F. Rogers, a university teacher at Brigham Young University, wrote a play titled \"Huebener\", which has had several runs in various venues. The Hübener's two co-accused friends, Karl-Heinz Schnibbe and Rudi Wobbe, attended some of the performances, albeit in different circumstances. Wobbe died of cancer in 1992; Schnibbe died in 2010. In February 2014, \"Huebener\" made its high school premiere in St. George, Utah.\n\nIn 1995, the first-hand account \"When Truth Was Treason\" was published, narrated by Karl-Heinz Schnibbe and written by Blair R. Holmes, a professional historian, and Alan F. Keele, a German-language specialist. A newer edition was published in 2003 (see ).\n\nThe book \"Hübener Vs. Hitler\" by Richard Lloyd , is, in this revised and expanded edition, a biography written in a popular-historical style. It includes interviews with all then-living friends and close relatives of Hübener. It also utilizes primary investigative documents from the Nazi era.\n\nRudolf Gustav Wobbe (Hübener's other co-resistance fighter) wrote the book \"Before the Blood Tribunal\". Published in 1989, the book provides a personal account of his own trial before the Special People's court of Nazi Germany where he was sentenced to 10 years in prison for his participation in anti-Nazi resistance. Rudi, as he was known, also describes events leading up to the trials of the three German youths and his own experience as a prisoner. This book was later republished as \"Three Against Hitler\".\n\nThe 2008 juvenile novel \"The Boy Who Dared\" by Susan Campbell Bartoletti, while fictional, is based on Hübener's life. Bartoletti's earlier Newbery Honor book, \"\", also covers Hübener's story.\n\nHübener's story was documented in the 2003 documentary \"Truth & Conviction,\" written and directed by Rick McFarland and Matt Whitaker.\n\nThe story was also depicted in \"Resistance Movement\", an independent 2012 film.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1813071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813071", "title": "Saffo", "text": "Saffo\n\nSaffo may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1813072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813072", "title": "Theology of Pope Benedict XVI", "text": "Theology of Pope Benedict XVI\n\nThe theology of Pope Benedict XVI, as promulgated during his pontificate, consists mainly of three encyclical letters on love (2005), hope (2007), and \"charity in truth\" (2009), as well as apostolic documents and various speeches and interviews. Benedict's theology underwent developments over the years, many of which were characterized by his leadership position in the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith, which is entrusted with preserving the Catholic faith in its entirety. \n\nHis theology originated in the view that God speaks to us through the Church today and not just through the Bible. The Bible does not teach natural science but rather it is a testimonial to God’s revelation.\n\nBenedict spoke as a theologian and as prefect of the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith long before he became Pope. It is in his three encyclicals and other papal letters that we see his evolving theology combined with his authority as Pope.\n\nIn his first Encyclical as Pope, \"Deus caritas est\", Benedict XVI describes God as love, and talks about the love which God lavishes upon us and which we in turn must share with others through acts of charity.\n\nHis letter has two parts. A theological speculative part, in which he describes \"the intrinsic link between that Love and the reality of human love\". The second part deals with practical aspects, and calls the world to new energy and commitment in its response to God's love.\n\nBenedict writes about love of God, and considers this important and significant, because we live in a time in which \"the name of God is sometimes associated with vengeance or even a duty of hatred and violence\":\n\nBenedict develops a positive view of sex and \"eros\" in this first encyclical, which would do away with the Victorian view of the human body. Love between man and woman is a gift of God, which should not be exploited:\n\nNowadays Christianity of the past is often criticized as having been opposed to the body; and it is quite true that tendencies of this sort have always existed. \"...\" but ... \"eros\", reduced to pure \"sex\", has become a commodity, a mere \"thing\" to be bought and sold, or rather, man himself becomes a commodity. This is hardly man's great \"yes\" to the body. On the contrary, he now considers his body and his sexuality as the purely material part of himself, to be used and exploited at will.\"\"\n\nIn the encyclical Benedict avoids condemnations which characterized his writing as prefect of the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith and also corrects a view of sex as purely for procreation. \n\nIn his second encyclical, \"Spe Salvi\", Benedict XVI explains the concept of faith-based hope in the New Testament and the early Church. He suggests a redirection of often short-sighted hopes. Real hope must be based on faith in God who is love. Christ, the most manifest expression of God's love, dies on the cross not to end slavery, miseries or other temporal problems.\n\nBenedict argues in his letter against two mistaken notions of hope: 1.) Christians who may have focused their hopes too much on their own eternal salvation, and 2.) those who have placed their hope exclusively on science, rationality, freedom and justice for all, thus excluding any notion of God and eternity. Christians find lasting hope by finding their loving God, and this has real consequences for everyday life. In his commentary on slavery, Benedict takes the attitude of Christians in the Roman Empire:\n\nBenedict refers to St. Paul who wrote from prison \"Paul is sending the slave back to the master from whom he had fled, not ordering but asking: 'I appeal to you for my child ... whose father I have become in my imprisonment ... I am sending him back to you, sending my very heart ... perhaps this is why he was parted from you for a while, that you might have him back for ever, no longer as a slave but more than a slave, as a beloved brother'\" (Philem 10–16). He refers then to the Letter to the Hebrews, which says that Christians here on earth do not have a permanent homeland, but seek one which lies in the future (cf. Heb 11:13–16; Phil 3:20).\n\nTo Benedict, this does not mean for one moment that they lived only for the future: present society is recognized by Christians as an exile; they belong to a new society which is the goal of their common pilgrimage and which is anticipated in the course of that pilgrimage. A Christian has a present and future, because of the hope for Jesus Christ, which is life changing. All serious and upright human conduct is hope in action. This hope gives a realistic perspective to understanding suffering and helping others: We can try to limit suffering, to fight against it, but we cannot eliminate it. It is when we attempt to avoid suffering by withdrawing from anything that might involve hurt, when we try to spare ourselves the effort and pain of pursuing truth, love, and goodness, that we drift into a life of emptiness, in which there may be almost no pain, but the dark sensation of meaninglessness and abandonment is all the greater.\n\nBenedict believes that not by sidestepping or fleeing from suffering are we healed, but rather by our capacity for accepting it, maturing through it and finding meaning through union with Christ, who suffered with infinite love.\n\nIn a special letter on the Eucharist and the Church, Benedict describes the Eucharist as the causal principle of the Church.\n\nA contemplative gaze \"upon him whom they have pierced\" (Jn 19:37) leads us to reflect on the causal connection between Christ's sacrifice, the Eucharist, and the Church. The Church \"draws her life from the Eucharist\" (31). Since the Eucharist makes present Christ's redeeming sacrifice, we must start by acknowledging that \"there is a causal influence of the Eucharist at the Church's very origins.\" The Eucharist is Christ who gives himself to us and continually builds us up as his body. Hence, in the striking interplay between the Eucharist which builds up the Church, and the Church herself which \"makes\" the Eucharist, the primary causality is expressed in the first formula: the Church is able to celebrate Christ present in the Eucharist precisely because Christ first gave himself to her in the sacrifice of the Cross. The Church's ability to \"make\" the Eucharist is completely rooted in Christ's self-gift to her.\n\nWhat does this mean? According to Benedict, the Eucharist, which is union with Christ, has a profound impact on our social relations. Because \"union with Christ is also union with all those to whom he gives himself. I cannot possess Christ just for myself; I can belong to him only in union with all those who have become, or who will become, his own.\"\n\nIn an address to the faculty at the University of Regensburg, Germany, Benedict discussed the preconditions for an effective dialogue with Islam and other cultures. This requires a review of theology and science. The Pope considers the modern concept of science too narrow in the long run, because it allows the determination of \"certainty\" only from the interplay of mathematical and empirical elements. \"Anything that would claim to be science must be measured against this criterion. Hence the human sciences, such as history, psychology, sociology and philosophy, attempt to conform themselves to this canon of science.\"\n\nThis limited view of scientific method excludes the question of God, making it appear an unscientific or pre-scientific question. For philosophy and, albeit in a different way, for theology, listening to the great experiences and insights of the religious traditions of humanity, and those of the Christian faith in particular, is a source of knowledge, and to ignore it would be an unacceptable restriction of our listening and responding.\n\nBenedict acknowledges \"unreservedly\" the many positive aspects of modern science, and considers the quest for truth as essential to the Christian spirit, but he favours a broadening our narrow concept of reason and its application to include philosophical and theological experiences, not only as an aim in itself but so we may enter as a culture the dialogue with the other religions and cultures from a broader perspective:\n\nThis objective of Pope Benedict XVI has so far not been widely reviewed.\n\nRatzinger became known as a theologian through his position at the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith, which he headed from 1981 until his election to the Papacy. While a progressive during the Second Vatican Council, with developments in Germany after the council he \"transformed himself from a young, liberal theologian into an uncompromising guardian of the orthodox\". Only in the seventies did he feel that he had developed his own theological view. As head of doctrine after 1981, Ratzinger described himself as a \"watchdog\" over church teaching.\nThis \"own theological view\" has raised questions by critical liberal theologians, like Hans Küng and Karl Rahner.\n\nIt all began with the \"drama of my dissertation\", as he called it, a seemingly unimportant postdoctoral degree on Bonaventure, which he was almost denied because of serious reservations of some professors with his interpretation of divine revelation.\nRatzinger held that God reveals and revealed himself in history and throughout history and not just once to the authors of the Bible. \n\nIn 1995, Ratzinger came out with the book \"In the Beginning...\": A Catholic Understanding of the Story of Creation and the Fall.\" In it he explains that the world is not a chaos of mutually opposed forces; nor is it the dwelling of demonic powers from which human beings must protect themselves. Rather, all of this comes from one power, from God's eternal Reason, which became – in the Word – the power of creation. All of this comes from the same Word of God that we meet in the act of faith. The Bible was written to help us understand God's eternal Reason. The Holy Scripture in its entirety was not written from beginning to end like a novel or a textbook. It is, rather, the echo of God's history with his people. The theme of creation is not set down once for all in one place; rather, it accompanies Israel throughout its history, and, indeed, the whole Old Testament is a journeying with the Word of God. In this respect, the Old and New Testament belong together. Thus every individual part derives its meaning from the whole, and the whole derives its meaning from Christ.\n\nIn his theology of covenant, Ratzinger provides a unified interpretation of Scripture centered on the person and work of Jesus, with implications ranging from the Eucharist to the proper understanding of ecumenism. Benedict holds that Christology must be rooted in the covenantal theology of the New Testament, which is grounded in the unity of the entire Bible. In this covenantal theology, the Abrahamic covenant, as fulfilled by the new covenant, is seen as fundamental and enduring, whereas the Mosaic covenant is intervening (Rom. 5:20). The covenantal promises given to Abraham guarantee the continuity of salvation history, from the patriarchs to Jesus and the Church, which is open to Jews and Gentiles alike. The Last Supper served to seal the new covenant, and the Eucharist is an ongoing reenactment of this covenant renewal. Following the Letter to the Hebrews, Benedict describes Jesus death, along with the Eucharist, in which the blood of Jesus is offered to the Father, as the perfect realization of the Day of Atonement (cf. Heb. 9:11–14, 24–26).\n\nTo comprehend God's ongoing revelation is why the Church is important at all ages. Benedict's view of the church, ecclesiology, places much emphasis on the Catholic Church and its institutions, as the instrument by which God's message manifests itself on Earth: a view of the Church's universal worldwide role which tends to resist local pressure to submit to external social trends in specific countries or cultures.\n\nAs such, like all his predecessors, he does not view the search for moral truth as a dialectic and incremental process, arguing that essential matters of faith and morals are universally true and therefore must be determined at the universal level: \"the universal church ... takes precedence, ontologically and temporally, over the individual local churches.\" Accordingly, too, he was often seen as a key player in the centralization of the hierarchy under John Paul II.\n\nRatzinger comments as regards the Mass:\n\nThis Ratzinger quote on the liturgical reform of the council is symbolic for his interpretation of Vatican II. Ratzinger speaks positively about the Vatican II council, but differentiates between the council and a spirit of the council which has nothing in common with its texts and resolutions. He believed that essential elements of the Council such as the spirit of liturgy still need to materialize. He has, however, stated in books and interviews that Vatican II did not represent a radical break; a new age, but a more pastoral reformulation of old truths earlier doctrine, but applied the teachings of the Apostles and church fathers to the contemporary world.\n\nIndeed, the council documents quoted 205 times the allegedly conservative Pope Pius XII more than any other person. Benedict also spoke out against some post-conciliar innovations, especially liturgical novelties, which forget their purpose, and he continues to remind the faithful that the Council did not entirely do away with the former rite and many of its noble features.\n\nIn the pre-conclave Mass to the assembled cardinals in St. Peter's Basilica, he warned, \"We are moving toward a dictatorship of relativism which does not recognize anything as definitive and has as its highest value one's own ego and one's own desires.\" In his Christmas address to the Roman Curia, he asked that Council be interpreted not with the \"hermeneutic of discontinuity and rupture\" but with the \"hermeneutic of reform, of renewal in the continuity of the one subject-Church which the Lord has given to us.\" \n\nPope John Paul II and Ratzinger strongly opposed liberation theology as a political movement. Benedict acknowledged the good aspects of charismatic Catholicism while at the same time \"providing some cautions.\"\n\nCardinal Ratzinger's approach to ecumenical dialogue was fundamentally centered on his theology of covenant, as described in his work \"Many Religions–One Covenant: Israel, the Church, and the World\" (1999). In 2000, the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith issued a document entitled \"Dominus Iesus\", which created much controversy. Some religious groups took offense at the document because it allegedly stated that \"only in the Catholic Church is the eternal salvation.\" However this statement appears nowhere in the document. The document condemned \"relativistic theories\" of religious pluralism and described other faiths as \"gravely deficient\" in the means of salvation. The document was primarily aimed at opposing Catholic theologians like the acclaimed Jacques Dupuis, who argued that other religions could contain God-given means of salvation not found in the Church of Christ, but it offended many religious leaders. Jewish religious leaders boycotted several interfaith meetings in protest.\n\nIn \"Dominus Jesus\" authored by Ratzinger in 2000, the famous \"filioque\" clause (\"and the Son\") was omitted. It had been a source of conflict between Roman Catholic and Orthodox Church for nearly a thousand years. In this Ratzinger reached a hand across the theological/historical chasm separating Eastern and Western Churches. Then as Pope in 2007, he approved a document which stated that Orthodox churches were defective because they did not recognize the primacy of the Pope, and that other Christian denominations were not true churches because they lacked apostolic succession; a move which sparked criticism from Orthodox and Protestant denominations.\n\nPope Benedict created controversy when he said that the Church is waiting for the moment when Jews will \"say yes to Christ.\" He went on to say, \"We believe that. The fact remains, however, that our Christian conviction is that Christ is also the Messiah of Israel.\"\n\nBenedict called for Christians \"to open their arms and hearts\" to Muslim immigrants and \"to dialogue\" with them on religious issues. He also called for peaceful talk with Muslims and was against the War in Iraq. \n\nCritics remembered that in March 1997 Cardinal Ratzinger predicted that Buddhism would, over the coming century, replace Marxism as the main \"enemy\" of the Catholic Church. Some also criticized him for calling Buddhism an \"autoerotic spirituality\" that offered \"transcendence without imposing concrete religious obligations\", though that might be a mistranslation from the French \"auto-erotisme\", which more properly translates to self-absorption, or narcissism. Also the quote did not address Buddhism as such, but rather about how Buddhism \"appears\" to those Europeans who are using it to obtain some type of self-satisfying spiritual experience.\n\nBefore becoming Pope, Cardinal Ratzinger was a well-known and quite controversial figure inside and outside the Catholic Church. According to Hans Küng, \"Ratzinger's predecessor, John Paul II, launched a program of ecclesiastical and political restoration, which went against the intentions of the Second Vatican Council. ...And Ratzinger was his most loyal assistant, even at an early juncture. One could call it a period of restoration of the pre-council Roman regime. \n\nBenedict XVI's views were similar to those of his predecessor, Pope John Paul II, in maintaining the traditional positions on birth control, abortion, and homosexuality and promoting Catholic social teaching. In his biography journalist John L Allen, Jr. portrayed Cardinal Ratzinger as a figure that sometimes expressed more conservative views than Pope John Paul II. As Pope Benedict, he was noted for being less outspoken than predicted. Although teaching opposition to the death penalty, he stated that there may be among Catholics a \"legitimate diversity of opinion\" He also rejected that the divorced be allowed to remarry during their spouses' lifetime. In a 1994 letter to the bishops he said that those who do so are not in a state to receive communion. He also maintained that the Catholic Church does not possess the authority to ordain women to the priestly sacramental ministry.\n\nDuring the 1980s, as prefect of the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith, he criticized liberation theologians and twice silenced proponent Leonardo Boff.\n\nIn \"The Spirit of the Liturgy\" in 2000, Ratzinger attacked Rock and Roll as \"the expression of elemental passions\" and described some rock concerts as becoming \"a form of worship … in opposition to Christian worship.\" However, he is a great lover of classical and folk music, and included much new music in his recent pastoral visit to Cologne.\n\nThe Church under Pope John Paul II and Cardinal Ratzinger took the position based on the traditional Magisterium of the Catholic Church, that while confirming respect for individuals and showing \"great respect for these people who also suffer\", gay wedding services are not to be tolerated in the church and that Church facilities cannot be made available for them.\n\nLGBT rights advocates widely criticized his 1986 letter to the Bishops of the Church, \"On the Pastoral Care of Homosexual Persons\", in which he stated that \"although the particular inclination of the homosexual person is not a sin, it is a more or less strong tendency ordered toward an intrinsic moral evil; and thus the inclination itself must be seen as an objective disorder.\" However, then Cardinal Ratzinger also said: \"It is deplorable that homosexual persons have been and are the object of violent malice in speech or in action. Such treatment deserves condemnation from the Church's pastors wherever it occurs.\"\n\nIn a separate letter dated September 30, 1985, Ratzinger reprimanded Seattle Archbishop Raymond Hunthausen for his unorthodox views on women, homosexuals, and doctrinal issues, stating, \"The Archdiocese should withdraw all support from any group which does not unequivocally accept the teaching of the Magisterium concerning the intrinsic evil of homosexual activity.\" Archbishop Hunthausen was temporarily relieved of his authority.\n\nThe Pontiff also defended traditional Catholic views on same-sex marriage; in 2004 he said to the Italian newspaper \"La Repubblica\": \"Above all, we must have great respect for these people who also suffer and who want to find their own way of correct living (also including those who wish to try to be gay and celibate). On the other hand, to create a legal form of a kind of homosexual marriage, in reality, does not help these people.\" The Pope later described gay marriage as \"pseudo-matrimony\" and declared that \"the various forms of the dissolution of matrimony today, like free unions, trial marriages … by people of the same sex, are rather expressions of an anarchic freedom that wrongly passes for true freedom of man.\"\n\nBenedict XVI was also against gay couples adopting children; he wrote a Vatican paper concerned with the adoption of children into same-sex couples. \"Allowing children to be adopted by persons living in such unions would actually mean doing violence to these children, in the sense that their condition of dependency would be used to place them in an environment that is not conducive to their full human development.\"\n\nIn 1988 a debate arose within the Catholic Church on whether or not condoms could be used, not as contraceptives, but as a means of preventing the spread of HIV/AIDS and other sexually transmitted diseases. In 1987, the U. S. Conference of Catholic Bishops issued a document suggesting that education on the use of condoms could be an acceptable part of an anti-AIDS program. In response, Cardinal Ratzinger stated that such an approach \"would result in at least the facilitation of evil\" – not merely its toleration.\n\nDuring the 2004 presidential campaign In the United States, Cardinal Ratzinger stated that voters would be \"cooperating in evil\" if they voted for a political candidate precisely because of the candidate’s permissive stand on legalized abortion or euthanasia. He further stated, however, that voting for these candidates for other reasons of commensurate gravity in spite of their stand concerning abortion/euthanasia was justifiable in principle, a teaching picked up on by the USCCB. But Ratzinger generated controversy by supporting the denial of Holy Communion to these politicians. He did add, however, that bishops should only withhold communion after meeting with, teaching and warning politicians first.\n\nWhen he was asked about cruelty to animals in a 2002 interview, he said, \"We can see that they are given into our care, that we cannot just do whatever we want with them. Animals, too, are God's creatures. …Certainly, a sort of industrial use of creatures, so that geese are fed in such a way as to produce as large a liver as possible, or hens live so packed together that they become just caricatures of birds, this degrading of living creatures to a commodity seems to me in fact to contradict the relationship of mutuality that comes across in the Bible.\" The church teaching laid out in the Catholic Catechism is that \"animals are God’s creatures. He surrounds them with His providential care. By their mere existence they bless Him and give Him glory. Thus men owe them kindness. We should recall the gentleness with which saints like St. Francis of Assisi or St. Philip Neri treated animals. ...It is contrary to human dignity to cause animals to suffer or die needlessly.\"\n\n\"There were not sufficient reasons to unleash a war against Iraq,\" he said at a press conference in 2003. \"To say nothing of the fact that, given the new weapons that make possible destructions that go beyond the combatant groups, today we should be asking ourselves if it is still licit to admit the very existence of a 'just war'.\"\n\nAccording to CNN, Ratzinger called the Soviet Union \"a shame of our time\", and condemned unbridled capitalism by saying, \"We must coordinate the free market with the sense of responsibility of one towards the other.\" He repeatedly criticized the materialization of life and the \"greed society\".\n\nIn the spring of 2005 Benedict opposed a referendum in Italy which aimed at liberalising a restrictive law about artificial insemination and embryonic stem cell research. This was the first direct intervention in Italian politics since the collapse of the Democrazia Cristiana party. The most active person inside the Church was Cardinal Camillo Ruini, but Benedict XVI gave him clear support.\n\nIn 1990 Ratzinger commented on the Galileo affair, and quoted philosopher Paul Feyerabend as saying that the Church's verdict against Galileo had been \"rational and just\". Two years later, in 1992, Pope John Paul II expressed regret for how the Galileo affair was handled, and conceded that theologians of the time erred with their understanding that literal interpretation of scripture imposes physical understanding of the natural world. In January 2008 Ratzinger cancelled a visit to La Sapienza University in Rome, following a protest letter signed by sixty-seven academics which said he condoned the 1633 trial and conviction of Galileo for heresy.\n"}
{"id": "1813075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813075", "title": "AUI (constructed language)", "text": "AUI (constructed language)\n\naUI (IPA://) is a philosophical, a priori language created in the 1950s by W. John Weilgart, Ph.D. (March 9, 1913– January 26, 1981; born Johann Wolfgang Weixlgärtner, and also known as John W. Weilgart) a philosopher and psychoanalyst originally from Vienna, Austria. He described it as \"the Language of Space\", connoting universal communication, and published the fourth edition of the textbook in 1979; a philosophic description of each semantic element of the language was published in 1975.\n\nAs an effort toward world 'peace through understanding', it was Weilgart's goal to clarify and simplify communication. Ultimately it was his experiment in facilitating conscious thinking in that it is built from a proposed set of primitive, possibly universal elements that are designed to reflect a motivated, mnemonic relationship between symbol, sound, and meaning. In his psychotherapy work, he sometimes used client created aUI formulations to reveal possible subconscious associations to problematic concepts. aUI can also be considered an experiment in applied cognitive lexical semantics, and Weilgart claimed it could serve as an auxiliary language.\n\naUI is built upon a set of proposed universal semantic primes or elements of meaning that are combined to create miniature definitions. Weilgart found these fundamental concepts to be at such a basic level that they likely could not be defined by any simpler concepts. Linguistically speaking, aUI attempts 'oligosynthesis' in which words are synthesized or composed from a minimal number of total morphemes or units of meaning. The motivated relationship between morphology, phonology, and semantics means that if words look and sound similar, they also have similar meanings; homophonous words become synonymous. \n\naUI has 31 morpheme-phonemes each with an associated meaning, i.e. each morpheme = a phoneme = a sememe.\n\nAdditionally, short nasal vowels (marked with an asterisk) are used for numerals:\nThe phoneme , for instance, meaning \"together\", is a bilabial stop, pronounced with the lips pressed together. \"Light\" is pronounced with a short , as the brightest, highest-frequency sound, while \"sound\", is pronounced with a longer , as sound travels slower than light.\n\nEach phoneme also has an ideographic glyph or symbol that represents its meaning. The symbol for \"human\", is depicted by the two legs or arms of the human being, also suggesting his dichotomous nature. The \"human\" may be fulfilled by the whole triangular trinity of \"spirit\", a 'deep, mysterious' , (there are many possible trinities found in philosophy and religion). \"Life\", , represented by the shape of a leaf, is photosynthesis forming the basis of life on Earth. \"Feeling\", is a heart shape, blood pressure and pulse reflecting various feelings, and \"action\", a 'vibrant' , is represented by a lightning bolt, the most active phenomenon in nature.\n\nWeilgart followed Gottfried Leibniz' proposal for an alphabet of human thought that would provide a universal way to analyze ideas by breaking them down into their component pieces—to be represented by a unique \"real\" character. In the early 18th century, Leibniz outlined his \"characteristica universalis\", the basic elements of which would be pictographic characters representing a limited number of elementary concepts. René Descartes suggested that a lexicon of a universal language should consist of primitive elements. The history of this language philosophy is delineated in Umberto Eco's \"The Search for the Perfect Language\". \n\nAs a young man, Weilgart observed the pervasive and insidious effects of state planned Nazi propaganda. In particular, he was struck by how double meanings, together with similar sounds in slogans often associated unrelated words into suggestive \"stereotyped formulas\", [that would] \"arrest the attention and appeal to the hearts of the national masses\" (Hitler, \"Mein Kampf,\" 1925). For example, in one of the most repeated political slogans, \"Ein Volk, Ein Reich, Ein Führer!\" (\"One people, One empire, One leader!\") the word Volk sounds similar to \"folgt\", meaning to follow or obey; \"Reich\" also means rich; so the phrase points to a subliminal association: that the populace obeys and follows their leader, who leads them to a wealthy empire. \"Blu-Bo\" from \"Blut und Boden\" (Blood and Soil) was also a key slogan of Nazi ideology, as well as of course \"Heil Hitler!\" (Hail Hitler! - \"heil\" also meaning salvation, safe, well).\n\nBased on research in semantic conditioning from the 1950s, Weilgart theorized that whereas the conscious mind links synonyms (similar meanings), the subconscious mind associates assonance (similar sounds). That is, while we \"think\" about and distinguish similar-sounding words by their different meanings, we nonetheless \"feel\" at some level that they are (or ought to be) also related in meaning. Alliterative slogans may suggest a link in words unrelated by meaning but related by common sounds. Weilgart posited that such slogans were one of the many significant factors that could lead to war under desperate and incendiary conditions. Further, he believed that the general discrepancy between homophonous and synonymous words in conventional language would add to the disconnect with the subconscious mind.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1813077", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813077", "title": "Alliance of Nova Scotia Student Associations", "text": "Alliance of Nova Scotia Student Associations\n\nThe Alliance of Nova Scotia Student Associations (ANSSA) was the largest post-secondary student advocacy group in Nova Scotia, Canada and the largest student organization in the Atlantic Provinces. In 2012 it was renamed Students Nova Scotia. The organization historically represented 80-87% of the province's university students. It worked towards improved funding for education in Nova Scotia and the elimination of real and perceived financial barriers for university students.\n\nANSSA's member organizations were the Dalhousie Student Union, the Acadia Students' Union, the Atlantic School of Theology Students' Union, the St. Francis Xavier University Students' Union, the Saint Mary's University Students' Association, and the Cape Breton University Student Union.\n\nIn 2003 the Nova Scotia Student Advocacy Coalition (NSSAC) collapsed as a result of ideological differences between the Canadian Federation of Students and Canadian Alliance of Student Associations schools within the organization. Schools who were members of the CFS largely remained affiliated with that group's provincial wing, but the DSU, ASU, STFXSU, and SMUSA—as members of CASA—were left without a provincial lobby group.\n\nTalks between those schools led to the establishment of ANSSA in April 2004. SMUSA entered the alliance until that fall, following a successful referendum and the ASTSU that same year. CBUSU joined in 2009 after voting to leave the CFS.\n\nIn August 2012, ANSSA's board of directors voted to change their name as part of a series of larger governance reforms, and alongside an expansion of the organization's research and engagement capacities. The organization took on the new name, Students Nova Scotia.\n\n"}
{"id": "1813081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813081", "title": "Letterman Digital Arts Center", "text": "Letterman Digital Arts Center\n\nThe Letterman Digital Arts Center (LDAC), located in the Presidio, San Francisco, became the new combined home of Industrial Light & Magic, LucasArts, and Lucasfilm's marketing, online, and licensing units in 2005.\n\nOpening ceremonies were held June 25, 2005. The $350 million, 850,000 square foot (79,000 m²) center is home to 1500 employees, who began moving there in July, 2005. The grounds were designed by landscape architect Lawrence Halprin, who has also restored San Francisco's Ghirardelli Square. The design architect for the buildings was Gensler, and architect of record was HKS, Inc.\n\nThe Lobby of Building B is open to the public during regular business hours and contains a gallery of Lucasfilm memorabilia including props and costumes from the Star Wars film series. On the patio near the entrance to Building B is a fountain featuring a \"life\"-sized statue of Yoda.\n\nThe Presidio is a former U.S. Army base. The arts center takes its name from its location on the former site of the army's Letterman Army Hospital, which was named for Dr. Jonathan Letterman, medical director for the Army of the Potomac in the U.S. Civil War. \nThe building earned a LEED Gold certification. One of the reasons was the building was built from the recycled remains of the building it replaced, the Letterman Army Hospital.\n\n"}
{"id": "1813084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813084", "title": "Little Rock Zoo", "text": "Little Rock Zoo\n\nThe Little Rock Zoo was founded in 1926 and is located in Little Rock, Arkansas, United States. It is home to more than 725 animals representing over 200 species, and covers an area of . The Arkansas Zoological Foundation is a private 501 c (3) organization that raises funds for zoo development. The Little Rock Zoo is a department of the city of Little Rock. It is the largest zoo in Arkansas, and the only Arkansas zoo accredited by the Association of Zoos and Aquariums (AZA).\n\nThe Little Rock Zoo was started in 1926 with only two animals: an abandoned timber wolf and a circus-trained bear. Over the years it has grown to include 725 animals representing more than 200 species. The first buildings at the zoo were made of local stone and built by the Works Progress Administration (WPA). These buildings were built in the 1930s and were home to primates, reptiles, birds, and big cats. They are still in use, and the cat house was renovated into a restaurant with the feel of an African style lodge. The big cat exhibit was built in the 1980s along with other exhibits for great apes, crocodiles, alligators, sloth bears, and river otters.\n\nLemur island opened in the 1990s, and an African Lion Exhibit was also added at this time, as well as the Civitan Pavilion for special events and the Civitan Amphitheater for educational programming. The zoo acquired a children’s farm with an interactive contact yard and train station. In 2001 the board of directors approved a new Zoo Master Plan, which included a new African Veldt Exhibit. The newly restored Over the Jumps carousel, a fully restored antique carousel, made its home at the Little Rock Zoo in the October 2007. An African American penguin exhibit, Laura P. Nichols Penguin Pointe, opened on March 5, 2011. The Laura P. Nichols Cheetah Outpost opened on July 7, 2012. The Arkansas Heritage Farm opened on April 2, 2016.\n\nThe Little Rock Zoo is divided into themed areas where the animals can be viewed. Some exhibits are based on the animal's natural environment, while others group similar animals together.\n\nThe entrance to the zoo includes the \"Over-The-Jumps\" Carousel, the Animal Shows Amphitheater, and Lorikeet Landing, where visitors can see and feed the rainbow lorikeet.\n\nThe Great Apes exhibit includes a walkway that allows the visitors to have an eagle's eye view of the ape's enclosures. A western lowland gorilla family group can be seen on one side of the walkway and the common chimpanzee and the Bornean orangutan can be seen on the other, both in their own separate enclosures. Outside of this exhibit, various primate islands can be found that are home to the ring-tailed lemur, black-and-white ruffed lemur, blue-eyed black lemur, Madagascar teal, black-handed spider monkey, siamang, and koi.\n\nLaura P. Nichols Penguin Pointe houses the African penguin and mimics an African shoreline, specifically Boulders Beach, with viewing of the penguins both above and below the water.\n\nThe Primates, Reptiles, Birds & More building was built in 1936 and features many exotic animals from around the world, including ones from the primate, reptile, and bird families.\n\n\"Reptile House\"\n\nSnakes - red spitting cobra, Amazon tree boa, puff adder, Black pine snake, Louisiana pine snake, northern pine snake, eastern hognose snake, western hognose snake, southern copperhead, western pigmy rattlesnake, canebrake rattlesnake, eastern diamondback rattlesnake, western cottonmouth, Sonoran gopher snake, corn snake, mole snake, Asiatic rock python, green tree python, Savu python, Burmese python, Mexican burrowing python, eastern indigo snake, Sinaloan milk snake, eastern coachwhip, West African gaboon viper, rhinoceros viper, eyelash viper, Malayan pit viper, grey-banded kingsnake, , Cape cobra, and Mexican cantil.\n\n\"Other Reptiles\"\n\nAmerican alligator, northern blue-tongued skink, Madagascar giant day gecko, White line gecko, African fat-tailed gecko, leopard gecko, Standing's day gecko, tokay gecko, Nile monitor, crocodile monitor, Gila monster, eastern glass lizard, frilled lizard, Sudan plated lizard, blue spiny lizard, broadhead skink, Solomon Islands skink, Great Plains skink, panther chameleon, green iguana, green crested basilisk, common snakeneck turtle, spiny softshell turtle, African spurred tortoise, alligator snapping turtle, and the .\n\n\"Amphibians\"\n\nWhite's tree frog, axolotl, red eyed tree frog, Panamanian golden frog, blue poison dart frog, green and black poison dart frog, yellow and blue poison dart frog, yellow banded poison arrow frog, Oriental fire-bellied toad, giant marine toad, tiger salamander, western lesser siren.\n\n\"Invertebrates\"\n\nBrazilian cockroach, \"Scolopendra heros\", emperor scorpion, \"Lasiodora parahybana\", giant African millipede, \"Aphonopelma seemanni\", tailless whip scorpion, Vietnamese walking stick.\n\n\"Primate House\"\n\nCallimico, douroucouli, Geoffrey's marmoset, Geoffroy's tamarin, Wied's marmoset, lesser spot-nosed guenon, pygmy slow loris, red-capped mangabey, Angolan talapoin, southern three-banded armadillo, tufted capuchin, two-toed sloth, and the white-faced saki, Gibbon, Gorilla.\n\n\"Tropical Bird House\"\n\nroseate spoonbill, scarlet ibis, black-naped fruit dove, grey peacock pheasant, southern crowned pigeon, Nicobar pigeon, helmeted guineafowl, Mandarin duck, ruddy shelduck, Madagascar teal, Marbled teal, Catalina macaw and the green aracari.\n\nThe elephant exhibit is home to the zoo's Asian elephants. The elephant exhibit is extremely large in order to house these gigantic animals. The elephants also have a large stretch of yard to walk around in outside. There is a large viewing window for the visitors in the front and large banners on the sides that have famous quotes from notable figures citing the majesty and importance of elephants.\n\nThe Arkansas Heritage Farm exhibit features the Arkansas' Diamond Express train as well as a chicken yard for the araucana, Barred Rock, silkie, Polish crested chicken, salmon faverolles chicken, red junglefowl, wild turkey, Toulouse goose, and the Sebastopol goose. The farm's barn houses the mammals of this exhibit. The zebu, donkey, and miniature horse are located on the left side of the barn and the pygmy goat, baby doll sheep, and barn owl are located on the right. This exhibit also has a black-tailed prairie dog habitat, a butterfly garden, and a viewing area for the common vampire bat, Aldabra giant tortoise, spur-thighed tortoise, and rabbit. This exhibit is located next to the waterfowl pond where the mallard duck, black-billed whistling duck, black-bellied whistling duck, radjah shelduck, paradise shelduck, bar headed goose, Canada goose, black swan, American white pelican, and Chilean flamingo can be found.\n\nThe Small Carnivores exhibit features the red fox from North America, the serval and caracal from Africa, the fossa from Madagascar, the ocelot and capybara from South America, and the clouded leopard, Indian crested porcupine, and Reeve's muntjac from Asia. The three-toed box turtle and ornate box turtle can also be seen in the capybara enclosure.\n\nThe North American river otter and the spotted-necked otter can be seen at the entrance. Some of the bears in this exhibit are from Asia like the sun bear and the sloth bear and are separated from visitors by moats. The main attraction is the grizzly bear enclosure which has a large glass viewing window in order for people to see the grizzlies up-close. The bush dog is located at the end of the exhibit.\n\nThe African Savannah is a mixed species enclosure that features the grey crowned crane, ostrich, and the Damara zebra.\n\nThe Africa exhibit features the eastern black rhinoceros and the dromedary camel. Alpaca can also be seen opposite the camel enclosure.\n\nThe Big Cats exhibit features lions, tigers, and jaguars. Asiatic black bears currently reside in the lion enclosure after hours.\n\nThe Laura P. Nichols Cheetah Outpost exhibit educates visitors about cheetah conservation efforts and African wildlife. Along with the cheetah, Kirk's dik-dik and the blue crane can be seen in front of the outpost. Inside the outpost, the naked mole rat, Angolan python, African Bullfrog, mole snake, Sudan plated lizard, African spurred tortoise, Standing's day gecko, African fat-tailed gecko, and the crested porcupine.\n\nOn the Overlook Trail, the maned wolf, Somali wild ass, red river hog, grey-crowned crane, yellow-backed duiker, giant anteater, white-handed gibbon, Abyssinian ground hornbill, greater kudu, bald eagle, Harlan's hawk, and the common warthog can be seen.\n\nThe Little Rock Zoo participates in the AZA Species Survival Plan (SSP), and has contributed to the survival of many threatened and endangered species.\n\nThe Little Rock Zoo intends to create a zoogeographic zoo to help the public learn about the habitats and create a more natural zoo for the animals. The included renovations and additions include an Arkansas Farmstead exhibit with native species and information on the importance of agriculture to the state, the continent of Asia, which will be located where the Greats Apes exhibit is at present, with a larger elephant exhibit, orangutans, blackbuck antelope, sarus cranes, and other Asian species, the continent of Africa with a new giraffe barn, the African Veldt mixed species exhibit, a new cheetah habitat, the African forest area, and the African Outpost, a new entry complex located north of Zoo Drive complete with a new restaurant, carnival style rides, and an ice cream parlor and a New Discovery Center education center with new rooms, exhibits, and education animals.\n"}
{"id": "1813096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813096", "title": "A Grande Arte", "text": "A Grande Arte\n\nA Grande Arte (in English, \"The Great Art\"; US title: Exposure), is a 1991 Brazilian movie directed by Walter Salles Jr. and starring Peter Coyote. Loosely based on the book \"A Grande Arte\" by Brazilian Rubem Fonseca, it is one of the first theatrical works of Salles Jr. The cast includes Brazilian and international stars such as Coyote, Tchéky Karyo and Amanda Pays.\n\nPeter Mandrake (Coyote), an American photographer in Brazil, is preparing an \"in loco\" essay for his new book, about the \"Train Surfers\" (groups of boys who court danger \"surfing\" on the roof of the trains) in the city of Rio de Janeiro. A local call girl with whom he is friends is murdered, and when the police can make no progress Mandrake decides to investigate himself. Subsequently, two hired thugs break into his apartment demanding a disk, and, when he doesn't produce it because he can't do so, they rape his girlfriend and stab him, leaving him to die. Vowing revenge, Mandrake enlists the help of Hermes (Karyo), a professional knife fighter who owes Mandrake a debt, to teach him the art of knife fighting. The obsession this develops into causes Mandrake's girlfriend to leave him, wanting the whole thing to simply go away, but Mandrake refuses to let go.\n\nThe thugs are discovered to be working for an undisclosed Brazilian criminal organization closely tied with the Bolivian cocaine cartel. The head of the organization is attempting to uncover a traitor in his organization, who apparently stole a floppy disk containing important information. Mandrake allies himself with some of the organization's rivals to help them find the disk, in return for discovering who killed the call girl. The disk is ultimately found, and Mandrake learns that the organization head murdered the call girl himself, slashing her face in an act of arrogance. Hermes appears suddenly, and the head orders him to kill Mandrake, but Hermes tells him to do it himself before leaving. They violently fight, and Mandrake manages to stab his opponent to death.\n\nHowever, the fulfillment of his revenge quest leaves Mandrake feeling empty and without purpose. He wanders for a while before, on a whim, taking a picture of a couple kissing in a window. This reinvigorates his passion for photography, and, whereas he used to take pictures of violent and dangerous situations, now his work has a theme of love and simple pleasures. He heads out to the plains to see his girlfriend, who is an archaeologist working on-site. After showing her the pictures, he tells her he's been assigned to Africa, but promises to return someday.\n\nThe film explores the mysterious and hidden world of the \"Persevs\" (a portmanteau of the words \"perforate\" and \"sever\") fighters and some famous knifesmiths, such as Rex Applegate and William. E. Fairbairn, Bo Randall (whose assault knife \"Randall 14\" is a key weapon in the film) and Joe Kious.\n\nThe movie contains one of the most famous and mesmeric armorer scenes ever filmed (James Bond's \"Q\" scenes pale in comparison) wherein a world weary and softly reverent voiced combat knife purveyor lays out on display a line of famous maker's fighting knives and then proceeds to extoll each blade's virtues; an absolutely magical scene and performance by both the knife purveyor and Tcheky Karyo (in the performance that propelled Karyo's later career).\n\n\nThe movie was filmed on location on Rio de Janeiro streets (usually at night) and in the highlands of Bolivia and Pantanal. It was the first feature film directed by Walter Salles Jr., who had been known primarily for his documentaries. He later directed films such as \"Diários de Motocicleta\" (\"The Motorcycle Diaries\") and the horror remake \"Dark Water\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1813099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813099", "title": "Trover", "text": "Trover\n\nTrover () is a form of lawsuit in common-law countries for recovery of damages for wrongful taking of personal property. Trover belongs to a series of remedies for such wrongful taking, its distinctive feature being recovery only for the value of whatever was taken, not for the recovery of the property itself (see replevin).\n\nAlthough actions in trover can be traced to the time of Bracton, and later Edward I of England, it became more clearly defined later during the reign of Henry VI of England, 1422–1461 and 1470–1471. Action in trover became a mature legal doctrine during the reign of Elizabeth I of England, 1558–1603.\n\nEarly trover cases involved the keeping or taking of a bailment by the bailee (the person charged to hold the property with \"ordinary care\"). Others concerned the use of lost chattels found by another. Who was the real owner? Early on, there was difficulty in dealing with situations where chattels held by a bailee were used by a third party. Examples could be sheep, horses, farm goods, grains or other chattels left in the care of a person who was required to exercise ordinary care. If negligence led to damages, an action could be had. A third person might use the chattel, returning it in a damaged condition. The early common law had some difficulty in dealing with this kind of situation. This led to expansions of actions in trover.\n\nThe theory of trover was that the defendant, by \"converting\" the chattel to his own use, had appropriated the plaintiff's property, for which he was required to make compensation. The plaintiff was not required to accept the chattel when it was tendered back to him. He could recover damages for the full value of the chattel at the time and place of conversion. The effect was that the defendant was compelled to buy the chattel at a forced sale, carried out by means of an action in trover.\n\nTrover actions frequently concerned the finding of lost property. It could also involve cargo on ships, such as those lost at sea and later found. Trover often involved cases in which the only \"most correct\" owner could be determined. For instance, if an envelope of bank notes or currency were to be found, the court would attempt to identify the true owner, but this would often prove to be impossible. In that case, the finder would be the next best owner and be considered the rightful possessor. Trover cases have been described as \"finders keepers, losers weepers\" cases.\n\nTrover damages came to be measured by the market value of the object, not necessarily its replacement cost if it were new. Sometimes, compensation for deprivation of use and compensation for other losses naturally and proximately caused by the wrongful taking could be added. Case law results are mixed. The plaintiff could also recover interest that would have been earned by the money value of the object and any expense (except attorney's fees) incurred in attempting to recover the object. If the taker sold the object for more than its market value, the plaintiff could receive the higher price. However, selling the chattel could change the action to that of a true conversion which was a form of theft. If the taker had made improvements on the object (e.g., repainted it), the value of such improvements are not deducted from the plaintiff's recovery unless the taking was by mistake.\n\nTrespass and trover were both actions founded upon possession. For many centuries, they were alternative remedies for the wrongful taking of, or damage to chattels. There was a distinction between the actions. In the theory of trespass, the plaintiff remained the owner of the chattel, with the possession or property rights interrupted or interfered with. In this case, the plaintiff must accept the chattel back when it was tendered. Recovery was limited to any damage to the chattel, or from the interruption of property rights.\n\nIn the time of Bracton, despite the generality of the writ, the bailor of a chattel could only bring this action against the bailee of the chattel, or those who represent the bailee by testate or intestate succession. Only two actions were available. The plaintiff could claim, \"I lost the goods and you found them.\"; or \"I bailed the chattel to you.\" The first of these was called \"detinue sur trover\".\n\nThere is some evidence that the action had been used in the generation following Bracton during the reign of Edward I of England. In earlier times, the finder who did not take the witness of his neighbors that he had honestly found the chattel was at risk of an \"actio furti\".\n\nIn those days, action in \"detinue sur trover\" could not lie against a third party. If a person bailed his chattels to another, and that bailee wrongfully gave, sold or bailed the chattels to a third party, the only action was against the original bailee. Liability to the third bailee was not transferable. In later times, lawyers would talk of trover and bailment. In 1292, there was a slight tendency to regard the detainer rather than the bailment as the gist of the action, where it was stated \"it is not enough to say, 'you did not bail to me' [in defense], but one must add, 'and I do not detain it [use of the chattel] from you.'\" But there are other later cases which show that it is impossible or at least extremely difficult for the bailor to fashion any count that will avail him against the third party. The third party was called the \"third hand\".\n\nSir William Holdsworth described trover as an extension of detinue, which enabled not only a bailor and a dispossessed owner, but also a third person, to whose use goods had been bailed, to get full recognition of their interests.\n\nIn colonial America, replevin was used more often than detinue. In England the scope of replevin was usually limited to action in distress (where a chattel had been taken by a person who intended to hold it as a bargaining chip to force some action by the true owner).\n\nBy the end of the seventeenth century, the great bulk of litigation in England was conducted through the various forms of action which had developed from trespass. This remained the case until the nineteenth century, when these kinds of forms of action were abolished in succession by statute. By 1875, all remaining forms had been replaced by a single form uniform writ whereby the plaintiff endorses the statement for a claim. By that time, the change was purely procedural, but it also freed the substantive law from the old medieval forms of action. It permitted the development of broad concepts, such as liability in tort which could never have come about when confined by the old forms of action, such as trover. This served to rationalize the law. Just as forms of assumpsit replaced debt, so in the seventeenth century trover replaced detinue.\n\nIn the reign of Edward IV of England, the question arose whether a charter relating to land could be recovered by detinue in view of the fact that it had no value.\n\nDuring the fifteenth century the plea of \"detinue sur trover\" gave rise to a special form of action of detinue, which came to be distinguished from the action of trespass on the case and its companion, trespass on the case sur trover. After a time, the latter became known simply as \"trover\". Littleton called the plea \"\"per inventionem\", sur trover, a new found halliday.\" This remark by Littleton probably only applied to the simpler form of the new pleading, which made it unnecessary to allege by what means the chattel had come into the hands of the defendant. It was not really the novelty of the action, but the fact that it streamlined the old writs by-passing the details of possession by the bailee or finder of the chattel.\n\nFor a time during the fifteenth century, the common law courts seemed to draw a real distinction between the counts detinue sur trover and detinue sur bailment. A bailment occurs when there is an agreement for someone to transport or keep a chattel. The normal rule was that \"ordinary\" care was necessary to protect the chattel while it was in the custody of the bailee. The former was a wrongful detention and a tortious wrong. The latter a wrong based on the agreement between the parties.\n\nWager of law was a possible defense, at least in certain cases of detinue sur trover. Wager of law was a complicated medieval legal procedure which was used when other forms of proof were lacking. It involved the bringing forth of witnesses who would swear under oath, to God that the facts alleged in the writ or bill of complaint were true. Lacking such witnesses, the action would fail. This was locked into the old methods of proof, which were in turn, tied to the old forms of action. The records show a certain hardening of the courts toward this defense in the mid-fourteenth century. Wager of law was not used in debt on a covenant. Wager of law was abolished by statute in 1833. Prosser describes trover and wager of law in this way: Trover, as it developed, had certain definite procedural advantages over the older forms of action, not the least of which was that it avoided wager of law, a form of licensed perjury which made detinue singularly unattractive to an honest plaintiff suing a dishonest defendant.\n\nNo action could lay when a chattel was returned, but in a damaged condition. In 1478, Catesby said, \"And in the same manner I deliver my robes to you to keep for me and you wear them so that they perish, I shall have an action of detinue for in these cases the property is not altered, and afterwards an action on the case and recover damages for the loss sustained by your using the clothes.\"\n\nIt was doubtful whether detinue lay where, after bailment, a third party had destroyed the chattel bailed. This could be encountered when ships were lost at sea, or chattels being moved by wagon were destroyed by acts of nature and the like. Other cases might involve the finding or bailment of clothing which were destroyed while in the possession of a bailee. The case of a horse bailed to a smith, who bailed it to another smith who damaged, or killed the horse was encountered with some frequency. Action could not lie against the first smith. Contrary opinion is found in a ruling by Stratham.\n\nTrover has been described as an action in assumpsit which arose from the quare writs by adding the \"cum\" (Latin: \"with\") which, then could allege that the defendant undertook (\"assumpsit\", \"assumed the risk\", or \"assumed the duty\"), to do something. Another clause which followed some time later contained the allegation of trover, and deals with situations which involved neither bailment nor a trespassory taking. In Bracton's day the appeal of larceny could be changed into an action \"de re adirata\" by omitting the words of felony. By this means a chattel could be recovered against a finder. If the finder refused in court to restore the chattel as \"adirata\", the plaintiff could refile the claim (\"claims afresh\"), this time adding the word felony, indicating the action was for a real theft, and conversion.\n\nActions of this kind were common in the manorial courts, but an obscure note in a Year Book suggests that in 1294 detinue could be brought against a finder of a chattel. Cases of lost cattle had their own law, and never fit into the forms of trover. Detinue against the finder of a charter seems to have found its way into the common law by 1389.\n\nCharters, like stray cattle, had their own law with peculiar features, and these actions dealt primarily with executors who withheld the heir's title deeds which came into their hands (\"devenerunt ad manus\") with the ancestor's chattels. In 1455 Littleton explained the \"new found haliday\" which consisted in counting upon the finding (\"invencio\") instead of the traditional \"devenerunt\".\n\nThe preoccupation of detinue with the two special cases of stray cattle and lost title-deeds persisted, and the general problem of recovering chattels which had neither been stolen or bailed was only solved with a new form of writ. This was invented by adding a novel preamble to be inserted in the writ \"ostensurus quare\". This preamble alleged that the plaintiff casually lost possession of the chattel, that the defendant had found it, refused to restore it and converted it to his own use. The full development of trover and conversion is seen by 1510. A discussion of more modern cases of a bailee (holder) in possession of a title-deed is found in \"Columbia Law Review\".\n\nIn 1585, Edward Coke was reluctant to allow the principle of conversion to be extended so as to enable detinue to be largely superseded by trover on the case. Coke laid down the first principles applicable to conversion. He pointed out that the finder had acquired the goods which were in no danger of being lost, there was earlier authority for saying that an action for trespass could be sustained and that non-delivery constituted conversions. Consequently, the wrongful refusal to deliver on demand because evidence of a conversion, and this, after some vacillation is now the law. It was a rivalry between the various courts developing legal systems of the country which gave an impetus to the growth of the more modern remedies.\n\nTrover became the accepted action for all wrongs to chattels. In the case of \"Cooper v. Chitty\" (see \"infra\"), Lord Mansfield said, \"In form, trover is a fiction; in substance a remedy to recover the value of personal chattels wrongly converted by another to his own use. The form supposes a defendant may have come lawfully by the possession of the goods.\" The fiction was the allegation that the finding in trover was an accident. It was the plaintiff who wanted return of the chattel, which had been converted to the use of the defendant.\n\nDuring the reign of Edward IV of England, there were two cases indicating that there was a remedy for damage done by an intermediate bailee (sub-bailee). In 1473, the weight of opinion of the judges allowed an action for damages due to the use of a sub-bailee. In this case the plaintiff had made a bailment to the defendant to keep goods for him. The defendant's bailee had used and damaged them, This action was thought to be similar to trespass, since the bailees had no right to the use of the chattels, but it was not a trespass since there was no interference with the chattels while they were in the possession of the plaintiff. Nor was there detinue, since there was no lawful detention.\n\nIn 1479, the remedy was extended to cover the destruction of the chattel by the possessor. The court allowed the action arising out of a bailment of a box containing some silver fixtures. It was alleged that the box had been broken open and the silver converted. The plaintiff could not recover the thing bailed, because it was destroyed. This was the first known case in which the words, \"converted to his own use\" (Latin: \"\"convert a son oeps\"\") were used. Judge Brian said,\"and I take it for clear law that he could not have action on the case if he can recover the thing intself.\" Notice the similarity to the fact patterns seen in cases of \"breaking the bail\".\n\nThis is a fragmentary case from Henry VI of England which indicates that there were sacks of flour left by the plaintiff to be stored and cared for by the defendant. The plaintiff had paid the defendant for this arrangement. The sacks of flour had been carried off by a third party. Counsel for the defence argued that action on the case did not lie, because detinue lay. Judge Prisot opined it was an action on the case. An action similar to trover was allowed.\n\nIn 1510 the judges held that a bailee \"had misdemeaned himself\" where he had possession of a chattel and wrongfully sold the same to a stranger. An action on the case lay. Similar results are seen.\n\nOne of the difficulties in extending action on the case further than a supplementary remedy to detinue lay in the unwillingness of the judges before 1585 to uphold an action on a new writ where a remedy already existed, such as in detinue. In the fifteenth century some overlapping between the forms of debt, detinue, account and trespass had been recognized. Judge Paston said in 1428, that it was a bad argument that a writ of debt could not lie where trespass did; because for the same thing one may have a writ of account and a writ of debt.\n\nIn the case \"Isaac v Clark\" , it was laid down that a bailor could not maintain trover or detinue where he had pledged the goods, because the wrong was an offense against the possession of the bailee.\n\nThis principle of \"Isaac v Clark\" (see immediately \"supra\") was extended in \"Manders v. Williams\" where the court found that a bailee had a bailment for a period of time, and not merely at the will of the bailor. In other words, there had to be an agreement, similar to a contractual arrangement.\n\nCase involved twenty barrels of butter found and taken into the custody of the defendant. Plaintiff alleged the defendant's negligence had left the butter in a ruined condition. The court found that the loss arising from the negligence of an accidental finder was not allowed to constitute a cause of action, for no law compelleth him that finds a thing to keep it safely; as if a man finds a garment and suffers it to be moth eaten. It would be otherwise if there had been a misuse.\n\nIn \"Eason v Newman\" , a finder of a chattel was held liable on the ground that he had wrongfully refused to return it to the true owner. There was some judicial opposition to this ruling. It was criticized and precedent was not followed.\n\nIn \"The Case of the Chancellor of Oxford\" , a wrongful refusal to return a chattel was found to be evidence of a conversion.\n\nIn \"Holdsworth's Case\" Clayt. 151, pl. 99, 1638, an attempt to bring an action in trover for the wrongful detention of chattels by a bailee failed, because the action sounded in detinue and not trover.\n\nIn \"Strafford v. Pell\" Clayt. 151, pl. 276, 1650, a similar action in trover as in \"Holdsworth's Case\" failed against a carrier of chattels for this was a declaration of a trover, and \"supposeth a losing of goods, where the carrier hath them by delivery.\" Neither of these actions had anything to differentiate them from the old action of detinue, because both were based on a nonfeasance, before the character of conversion had been adequately realized.\n\nIn \"Sykes v Walls\" , a claim of wrongful detention by a bailee was upheld as a good claim on the ground that a refusal to deliver up constituted a \"misfeasance\". By this case, trover became virtually concurrent with detinue. When a chattel had been found, and there was a subsequent refusal to deliver it to the owner, it was taken as evidence that a conversion had occurred. Trover was a wrong against the right of possession and not against the possession itself, because possession was prima facie in the wrong-doer. Even when trover was allowed to overlap trespass and replevin, which were concerned with possession, it remained necessary to define conversion, and this extension did not really affect the definition. Conversion became any act on the part of the defendant inconsistent with the plaintiff's right to possession. This right had parts: it had to be (1) absolute and (2) immediate.\n\nThe medieval conception of wrongs to chattels was based upon a physical interference with possession. This was inherent in an age when keeping the peace was the primary concern of law, and a right of a third party was foreign to it. Originally, trover was based on an infringement of possession other than trespass. All that was necessary for the medieval judge to decide the case was to determine who had the better right to claim a chattel, not necessarily the best right.\n\n\"Armory v Delamirie\" , is a case which is frequently cited in United States Tort Law texts as the primary illustration of action in trover. A chimney sweep found a jewel while cleaning a chimney. He took it to a jeweler for evaluation. The jeweler removed the stone from the setting, with the intention of selling it to a third party. The chimney sweep was entitled to recover damages from the loss of the jewel. The case illustrates several pertinent issues with trover. First, the chimney sweep was not the primary owner of the jewel. Since the original owner could not be identified, the chimney sweep was the best owner. He had superior rights to the stone over the jeweler. The actions of the jeweler constituted a conversion. The possession by the chimney sweep was prima facie proof of ownership. A similar result was seen in \"Jeffries v Great Western Ry\" .\n\nIn \"Dockwray v Dickinson\" , it was held that where the facts indicated a conversion of a ship and cargo that the plaintiff was entitled to interest in one-sixteenth of the value of the property. It was noted that one partner could not bring an action in trover against another partner. The plaintiff was not entitled to damages for the whole ship and cargo which was converted, but only the percentage which he owned. This was one-sixteenth. Selling the ship and cargo was a different situation than one where the ship was converted and subsequently destroyed. If a joint owner of a cargo ship sell the ship and cargo with the consent of the other joint owners, there is a severance of tenancy, and upon delivery, a severance of property. The buyer may bring action in trover. If one of the partners forcibly takes the ship, and it is subsequently lost in a storm in the West Indies, it is considered a destruction of the ship. Action in trover can be allowed.\n\n\"Blainfield v March\" , allowed a plea in defense to trover brought by an administrator based on his own possession, that there was a will and an executor, whose claim would take priority to that of an administrator.\n\nIn this case, Lord Mansfield stated, \"Two things are necessary to be proved to entitle the plaintiff to recover in this kind of action (trover): first the property (i.e. ownership) in the plaintiff; and secondly, a wrongful conversion by the defendant.\"\n\n\"A bankrupt plaintiff may be met by the plea that his trustee in bankruptcy has a real title.\" Nevertheless, the right of a third party would not be a protection against an action for an interference with the actual possession, because this would be a trespass, and trover would be a substitute for trespass. The action decided the better claim to ownership, and not the final question of ownership. It was a decision of \"immediate\" ownership, and not final ownership.\n\nJudge Ashurst said that, \"in order to maintain trover the plaintiff must have a right of property in the thing (ownership) and a right of possession, and unless both these rights concur, the action (of trover) will not lie.\" Trover was not a strictly proprietary remedy.\n\nIn the case of \"Bishop v Viscountess Montague\" , the opinion was offered that the plaintiff could elect between action in trover and action in trespass as a remedy for wrongful taking.\n\nIn this case, the judges allowed action to be brought in trover where there had been a wrongful taking of a chattel. \"For the losing is but a surmise and not material, for the defendant may take it in the presence of the plaintiff.\" (Compare with the dictum of Lord Mansfield in \"Cooper v Chitty\", \"supra\".) \"Although he take it as a trespass yet the other may charge him in an action upon the case of trover.\" (The choice is left to the plaintiff to choose action in trover or action in trespass.) \n\nIn this case, it was said that action in trover was in the nature of a trespass and where goods were taken, it was in the election of the party (plaintiff) whether to bring action in trespass or trover. This rule was followed in a long line of cases into the nineteenth century.\n\nThe opinion in this case was that mere damage to a chattel was not a good claim in trover.\n\nAsportation of the chattel (illegally transporting the chattel) which was followed by the loss of a chattel, was held not to support an action in trover.\n\nIn the 1841 case of \"Fouldes v Willoughby\" , a ferryman was sued for conversion by the owner of two horses which he had put on board to be carried across a river. The ferryman subsequently refused to carry them, and when the owner declined to take them back on shore, the ferryman turned them loose on the landing place. The owner remained aboard the ferry. He made no attempt to retrieve his horses, which were subsequently lost to him. It was argued that this was an interference with the possession of the horses, and would be a trespass. It was a mere asportation without any conversion or interference with rights of ownership, since the action in putting the horses ashore had recognized the right owner. Consequently, the court held that trover was not an appropriate remedy. This was a signal case which brought into sharp distinction the alternate theories of trespass and trover. Trespass was the appropriate action, but it was not a conversion. This case was decided two years before the case of \"Johnson v Weedman\" (see \"infra\") in which Abraham Lincoln successfully argued that a bailee who rode a horse for 15 miles had not incurred enough damage to invoke an action in trover. This case was likely a precedent to \"Johnson v Weedman\".\n\nIn \"Tinker v Poole\" , Lord Mansfield overcame the technical objections (traditionally held) that a distress (holding of a chattel to induce an action from the owner) was not a disposition of goods, and that trover could be an alternative to replevin. This was a controversial opinion at the time, and was not necessarily viewed as legitimate \"stare decisis\".\n\nThe ruling and opinion of Lord Mansfield became permanent law with this case. Action in trover could be an alternative to replevin.\n\nThere are a few English cases where trover was applied to trusts. These are rare. In \"Ex P Pease\" a person who had received a bill of exchange for collection (an indorsee for collection) refused to return the bill to the person who had passed it to him (the indorser). The substitution of trover for equiatable remedy allowed in this case was anomalous.\n\nSince an action in trover depended upon the title to immediate possession an owner who was not entitled to such possession because he had hired out a chattel for a fixed period could not bring the action. Ownership of the chattel was recognized in other instances, such as transfer at death. The basis of liability was permanent injury to the \"reversion\", that is the right to receive the chattel unimpaired at some future date. The principle was mentioned in \"Tancred\", but not applied because of the fact pattern of the case. It was finally established a few years later.\n\nAs it developed, the wrong might arise from injury caused either by negligence or by an act of trespass or conversion.\n\nTrover is the name of the action which lay, at common law, for the recovery of damages for the conversion of personal property in his possession, usually involving chattels held in bailment. Although the old forms of action have been abolished or disappeared under modern civil procedure in the United States, the common law action for conversion still exists in fact, if not in form. (Extensive case law is reviewed.) \n\nA person who purchases personal property from one not authorized to sell the chattel may be held liable for the conversion of the article. This is regardless of the fact that the purchaser was honestly mistaken, or acted innocently, in good faith and without knowledge of the seller's lack of authority to make the sale. This rule also holds in cases where the purchaser takes possession of the goods, mixes them with his own property, holds them to his own use, refuses to surrender possession on demand, disposes of the goods to a third person by sale, lease or bailment or in general exercises rights of ownership as to the property purchased in denial of the real owner's rights after knowledge of the rights of the true owner.\n\nIn the 1887 case of \"Deaderick v. Oulds\", the Supreme Court of Tennessee ruled on a case of trover. The defendant, Oulds, cut 800 walnut logs, branded them with the letter \"D\", then proceeded to float them down a river with the intention of recovering them downstream. Sometime later, Oulds found an unmarked log among his other marked logs which had peculiar cracks at one end. He floated the unmarked log down the river, and it washed up on an island owned by the plaintiff, Deaderick, who then claimed the log as his in trover or replevin. The Tennessee court quoted the English case of \"Bridges v. Hawkesworth\" where the plaintiff, being in the shop of the defendant, picked up a parcel containing bank notes. The defendant, at the request of the finder, took charge of the notes, to hold for the owner. After three years, no one had come forth to claim them. The defendant shop owner refused to deliver them to the plaintiff. The court held the defendant shop owner liable in trover for the notes.\n\nThe Tennessee Supreme Court observed it is essential in cases of trover, that the property must be found; it must at the time when the finder came upon it, to have been in such a situation as to clearly indicate that it was lost. It cannot have been placed there by the original owner who lost it by carelessness or forgetfulness, where it was later found by someone else. In such cases, the owner of the premises where the property is found is treated as a quasi-bailee (i.e. he holds the property for the original owner), and he may maintain trover against the finder. Since the log was not intentionally laid by the (unknown) owner on the land of the plaintiff (Deaderick), and hence he was not a quasi-bailee for the owner, he cannot hold against the superior right of the defendant (Oulds) arising out of his prior possession and earlier finding of the log. Judgment for ownership of the log was to the defendant Oulds.\n\nIn the Georgia case of \"Berry v. Jackson\", 115 Ga. 196, , recovery of property converted may be allowed in an action of trover where such is statutorily defined.\n\nIn the case of \"Mitchell v. Georgia & A. R. Co.\" it was noted that where action in trover is allowed by statute, and defined by such, it necessarily includes all three actions of trover, detinue and replevin.\n\nThe 1843 Illinois case of \"Johnson v. Weedman\" was argued by a young Abraham Lincoln. The case was somewhat similar to the case of \"Fouldes v Willoughby\" , which had been decided two years earlier. It may have been taken as precedent in this present case. (see \"supra\"). A horse had been left in bailment for proper care. The bailee who was in possession of the horse rode it for 15 miles. There was no demonstrable damage to the horse. Lincoln convinced the court that there could be no action for damages. There was not enough evidence for the bailee to be held liable for a conversion, or for an action in trover. There had been no significant invasion of the owner's rights. The Illinois court agreed, and Lincoln won the day.\n\nIn \"Zaslow v. Kroenert\", 29 Cal.2d 541, , the California Supreme Court decided the case of quasi-trover with the following facts. Plaintiff Zaslow and defendant Kroenert owned a house as tenants in common. A dispute arose over the ownership of the house. The defendant and her agent entered the house, and changed the locks. They placed Zaslow's property in storage. Zaslow was notified of the placement of his property in storage, and its location. Plaintiff Zaslow sued and prevailed in an action of conversion. The California Supreme Court ruled that merely placing furniture in storage was not a conversion. There was no evidence that any damage had occurred to the furniture in storage. The case was remanded to the trial court to determine damages caused by the ouster and trespass of the personal property.\n\nIn \"Electric Power Co. v. Mayor of New York\", 36 App. Div. 366, 55, N. Y. S. 460, 1899, the same fact pattern as in \"Zaslow v. Kroenert\", supra, was encountered. Here, the furniture was placed in a warehouse at a distance so the plaintiff was subject to substantial inconvenience and expense in recovering. This was ruled to be a conversion. The case was similar to an 1816 British case, \"Forsdick v Collins\".\n\nIn the 1939 Texas case, the court encountered the same facts as in \"Zaslow v. Kroenert\", except the defendant stored the furniture in his own name with the intent to keep it for himself. This was ruled to be a conversion.\n\nIn \"McCurdy v. Wallblom Furniture & Carpet Co.\", 84 Minn. 326, , the Minnesota court encountered the same fact pattern as in \"Zaslow v. Kroenert\", except that while the furniture was in the warehouse, and before the plaintiff could remove it, it was destroyed by a fire. This was ruled to be a conversion.\n\nIn \"Borg & Powers Furnuture Co.\", 213 Minn. 539, , a fact pattern similar to \"Zaslow v. Kroenert\" existed, except the defendant did not notify the plaintiff. This was ruled to be a conversion.\n\nThe Penal Code of the State of Connecticut contains the offense of \"criminal trover\", in the first or second degree. It involves unauthorized use of a vehicle or other property of another person.\n\n"}
{"id": "1813100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813100", "title": "Appalachia Waltz", "text": "Appalachia Waltz\n\nAppalachia Waltz is the first album from the trio of cellist Yo-Yo Ma, double-bassist and composer Edgar Meyer, and fiddler and composer Mark O'Connor. Sony Classical released the disc in 1996. It was recorded over three days, 14 August-17 August 1995. \n\nIn its June 1997 issue, \"Bass Player\" magazine named it one of \"30 Essential Bass Albums You Must Own\", due to Meyer's exceptional work on the album. The trio followed up this album with \"Appalachian Journey\" in 2000. The album reached No. 1 on the Billboard's Top Classical Albums chart.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1813101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813101", "title": "Lewis Morley", "text": "Lewis Morley\n\nLewis Frederick Morley (16 June 1925 – 3 September 2013) was a photographer.\n\nMorley was born in Hong Kong to English and Chinese parents and interned in Stanley Internment Camp during the Japanese occupation of Hong Kong between 1941 and 1945, when he was released and emigrated to the United Kingdom with his family. He studied at Twickenham Art School for three years, and spent time as a painter in Paris in the 1950s.\n\nPerhaps best known for his photographs of Christine Keeler and Joe Orton, Morley began his career with assignments for magazines such as \"Tatler\". He was also a successful theatre photographer for over 100 West End productions. His publicity photographs for the \"Beyond The Fringe\" revue (1961) included a study of the cast Peter Cook, Dudley Moore, Alan Bennett and Jonathan Miller which was used for the best selling LP Cover of the show.\n\nMorley emigrated to Australia in 1971 with his wife Patricia and son Lewis, where he lived in the inner west of Sydney. He did studio and commercial work photographing architecture and food in magazines such as \"Belle\", and worked with interior designers and stylists such as Babette Hayes, and Charmaine Solomon until his retirement in 1987. In 1989 he collaborated with photographs curator Terence Pepper in staging his first museum retrospective at London's National Portrait Gallery and subsequently donated all the images printed for the exhibition as part of a larger archive of his work. His first autobiography \"Black and White Lies\" was published in 1992.\n\nIn the mid 1990s, Morley ventured into the gallery business when he opened The Lewis Morley Photographers Showcase. Embracing the great tradition of photographic salons, the gallery presented the work of a variety of local photographers from a range of genres.\n\nIn 1999, Lewis Morley appeared in the \"Contemporary Australian Photographers\" series. It was followed in 2003 with the release of a film about his life and an exhibition \"Myself and Eye\" at the National Portrait Gallery in Canberra.\n\nIn 2006, an extensive exhibition showcasing 50 years of Lewis Morley work was displayed at the Art Gallery of New South Wales. Titled \"Lewis Morley: 50 Years of Photography,\" the exhibition included 150 of his works covering fashion, theatre, and reportage, many of which had never been seen before.\n\nMorley died in September 2013 aged 88. His archive was subsequently donated to the National Media Museum in Bradford, England.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1813104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813104", "title": "POWER4", "text": "POWER4\n\nThe POWER4 is a microprocessor developed by International Business Machines (IBM) that implemented the 64-bit PowerPC and PowerPC AS instruction set architectures. Released in 2001, the POWER4 succeeded the POWER3 and RS64 microprocessors, and was used in RS/6000 and AS/400 computers, ending a separate development of PowerPC microprocessors for the AS/400. The POWER4 was a multicore microprocessor, with two cores on a single die, the first non-embedded microprocessor to do so. POWER4 Chip was first commercially available multiprocessor chip. The original POWER4 had a clock speed of 1.1 and 1.3 GHz, while an enhanced version, the POWER4+, reached a clock speed of 1.9 GHz. The PowerPC 970 is a derivative of the POWER4.\n\nThe POWER4 has a unified L2 cache, divided into three equal parts. Each has its own independent L2 controller which can feed 32 bytes of data per cycle. The Core Interface Unit (CIU) connects each L2 controller to either the data cache or instruction cache in either of the two processors. The Non-Cacheable (NC) Unit is responsible for handling instruction serializing functions and performing any noncacheable operations in the storage topology. There is an L3 cache controller, but the actual memory is off-chip. The GX bus controller controls I/O device communications, and there are two 4-byte wide GX buses, one incoming and the other outgoing. The Fabric Controller is the master controller for the network of buses, controlling communications for both L1/L2 controllers, communications between POWER4 chips {4-way, 8-way, 16-way, 32-way} and POWER4 MCM's. Trace-and-Debug, used for First Failure Data Capture, is provided. There is also a Built In Self Test function (BIST) and Performance Monitoring Unit (PMU). Power-on reset (POR) is supported.\n\nThe POWER4 implements a superscalar microarchitecture through high-frequency speculative out-of-order execution using eight independent execution units. They are: two floating-point units (FP1-2), two load-store units (LD1-2), two fixed-point units (FX1-2), a branch unit (BR), and a conditional-register unit (CR). These execution units can complete up to eight operations per clock (not including the BR and CR units):\n\nThe pipeline stages are:\n\n\nThe POWER4 also came in a configuration using a multi-chip module (MCM) containing four POWER4 dies in a single package, with up to 128 MB of shared L3 ECC cache per MCM.\n\nThe POWER4+, released in 2003, was an improved version of the POWER4 that ran at up to 1.9 GHz. It contained 184 million transistors, measured 267 mm, and was fabricated in a 0.13 µm SOI CMOS process with eight layers of copper interconnect.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1813105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813105", "title": "Monica Crowley", "text": "Monica Crowley\n\nMonica Crowley (born September 19, 1968) is the Assistant Secretary for Public Affairs for the U.S. Department of the Treasury. She has been a political commentator and lobbyist. She was a Fox News contributor, where she worked (with a few breaks) from 1996 to 2017. She is a former online opinion editor for \"The Washington Times\" and a member of the Council on Foreign Relations.\n\nIn December 2016, the Donald Trump administration announced that Crowley would be appointed a deputy national security advisor for the National Security Council. She withdrew a month later following reports that she had plagiarized portions of her 2012 book \"What the (Bleep) Just Happened?\" and her 2000 Ph.D. dissertation. On July 16, 2019, Trump announced Crowley's appointment as spokesperson for the Treasury Department. On July 24, 2019, she was sworn into office.\n\nCrowley was born at Fort Huachuca, an Army base located outside of Sierra Vista, Arizona, and grew up in Warren Township, New Jersey. Crowley graduated from Watchung Hills Regional High School in 1986. She holds a B.A. in political science from Colgate University and a Ph.D. in international relations from Columbia University (2000). Parts of the dissertation were plagiarized.\n\nAs a student, Crowley began writing letters to former President Richard Nixon, who hired her as a research assistant in 1990 when she was 22 years old. She was an editorial adviser and consultant on Nixon's last two books, and following Nixon's death, she published two books about him: \"Nixon off the Record: His Candid Commentary on People and Politics\" and \"Nixon in Winter\".\n\nIn the mid-1990s Crowley wrote a regular column for the \"New York Post\". She has also written for \"The New Yorker\", \"The Washington Times\", \"The Wall Street Journal\", the \"Los Angeles Times\", and the \"Baltimore Sun\".\n\nCrowley was a commentator for National Public Radio's \"Morning Edition\" in the mid-1990s. Since 2002, she has had her own nationally-syndicated radio show, \"The Monica Crowley Show\", which is also available as a podcast on iTunes, and she is a regular contributor to \"The John Batchelor Show\".\n\nIn 1996, Crowley joined Fox News Channel, where she was a foreign affairs and political analyst and occasionally substituted for Sean Hannity on Fox News Channel's \"Hannity\". In 2004, she joined MSNBC's \"\" with co-host Ron Reagan. After a nine-month run, the last show aired on December 9, 2005. Crowley has also been a recurring guest on \"Imus in the Morning\" and has hosted the MSNBC broadcast \"The Best of Imus in the Morning\". In 2007, she returned as a contributor to Fox News Channel. She was also a regular participant on \"The McLaughlin Group\" from late 2007 to 2011.\n\nCrowley is an occasional panelist on Fox News Channel's late-night satire show \"Red Eye w/ Greg Gutfeld\". Since 2009, she has been a guest host for Bill O'Reilly on \"The O'Reilly Factor\" and his subsequent podcast and appeared opposite Alan Colmes on Tuesday's \"The O'Reilly Factor\" in a segment called \"Barack and a Hard Place\". She is also an occasional guest host on the daily (5:00 pm ET) Fox opinion show, \"The Five\".\n\nCrowley appeared in the Netflix original series of \"House of Cards\", portraying herself.\n\nIn an election-day commentary in 2016 on Fox News, speaking of Republican candidate Donald Trump's impending upset victory, Crowley said, \"This is a revolt of the unprotected class against the protected elite class.\" Following the election of President Donald Trump, it was announced in December 2016 that Crowley would join the Trump administration as a deputy national security advisor. Following this announcement, Fox News terminated her contract with the network at Crowley's request.\n\nIn March 2017, Crowley joined the firm of Douglas Schoen as a part-time consultant, providing \"outreach services\" on behalf of Ukrainian industrialist and political figure Victor Pinchuk. Crowley registered as a foreign agent as required by the Foreign Agents Registration Act of 1938.\n\nOn July 16, 2019, President Trump announced Crowley's appointment as Assistant Secretary for Public Affairs in the Treasury Department. Crowley replaced Tony Sayegh, who left the position in May, as the top spokeswoman for Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin.\n\nCrowley has on multiple occasions spread conspiracy theories that President Barack Obama was a secret Muslim. In 2010, after Obama defended the right to build the Islamic community center Park51 in lower Manhattan near the World Trade Center, Crowley suggested he had dual loyalties to Islam and the United States, and asked, \"How could he...support the enemy?\" In 2013, she said that the Muslim Brotherhood had \"found an ally\" in Obama.\n\nIn 2009, she noted that Obama used his full name (Barack Hussein Obama) during his swearing in as president (which presidents typically do), had early in his presidency ordered the closure of the Guantanamo Bay detention center, and granted an interview to the media outlet Al Arabiya, saying this \"tells you where his head is and, possibly, his sympathies. Just sayin'.\"\n\nIn 2011, Crowley said that birther conspiracy theories about Obama raised legitimate concerns.\n\nIn 2015, she shared an article which described Obama as an \"Islamic community organizer\" who was \"conforming US policy to Islam and Sharia.\"\n\nIn 1999, Crowley was accused of plagiarism related to a column on Richard Nixon she wrote for \"The Wall Street Journal\" which contained \"striking similarities\" (according to the \"Journal\") to a piece written 11 years earlier by Paul Johnson. When contacted by \"The New York Times\" for comment, Crowley responded, \"I did not, nor would I ever, use material from a source without citing it.\" On January 7, 2017, CNN published a report documenting numerous instances of plagiarism in Crowley's 2012 book, \"What the (Bleep) Just Happened?\" The book includes about 50 examples of copying freely from published sources with no attribution given, including from Wikipedia. In a statement, the Trump transition team called the plagiarism report \"nothing more than a politically motivated attack\" and stood by her.\n\nTwo days later on January 9, 2017, \"Politico\" reported that a dozen additional instances of plagiarism were in Crowley's 2000 Ph.D. dissertation on international relations at Columbia University. In December 2019, an internal Columbia University investigation concluded that Crowley had engaged in “localized instances of plagiarism” but that the plagiarism did not meet the level of \"research misconduct.\"\n\nShortly after reports emerged that she plagiarized the book \"What the (Bleep) Just Happened?\", the publisher of the book, HarperCollins, announced:\n\nOn January 16, 2017, Crowley withdrew from consideration for the role of senior director of strategic communications at the National Security Council in the Trump administration. \"I have decided to remain in New York to pursue other opportunities,\" she said in a statement. \"The Washington Times\", where she served previously as online opinion editor, said the same day that it would be investigating her work at the paper for possible incidents of additional plagiarism by her.\n\nCrowley subsequently told Fox News host Sean Hannity, \"What happened to me was a despicable, straight-up, political hit job\" and said that it had been \"debunked.\" Andrew Kaczynski, the CNN reporter who first reported instances of plagiarism in Crowley's book, called her claims of innocence false and \"complete BS,\" stating: \"No one has yet to point out a single inaccuracy in our reporting or asked for a correction on it. Monica Crowley v. reality.\"\n\nCrowley grew up in central New Jersey.\n\nCrowley's brother-in-law was the late liberal political commentator Alan Colmes, who was married to Crowley's sister, Jocelyn Elise Crowley, a professor of public policy at Rutgers University.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1813108", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813108", "title": "Red Raw &amp; Sore", "text": "Red Raw &amp; Sore\n\nRed Raw & Sore is a 1994 EP released by Raymond Watts (as PIG). Released exclusively in Japan, \"Red Raw & Sore\" contains two original tracks, \"Red Raw & Sore\" and \"One Meatball\", as well as three remixes of songs from \"The Swining\", \"Rope\", \"Blades\" and \"The Fountain of Miracles\". \"Red Raw & Sore\" was re-released in the United States in 1999 by Cleopatra Records as part of \"The Swining/Red Raw & Sore\".\n\n\nAll tracks written by Raymond Watts, except track 1 written by Raymond Watts and Steve White.\n\n"}
{"id": "1813110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813110", "title": "Cambridge railway station", "text": "Cambridge railway station\n\nCambridge railway station is the principal station serving the city of Cambridge in the east of England. It stands at the end of Station Road, off Hills Road, south-east of the city centre. It is the northern terminus of the West Anglia Main Line, down the line from London Liverpool Street, the southern terminus.\n\nThe station is managed by Greater Anglia. It is one of two railway stations in the city (the other being , approximately away). Cambridge is noted for having the third-longest platform on the network in England.\n\nCambridge is also the terminus of three secondary routes: the Fen line to , the Breckland line to and the Ipswich–Ely line to . It is the thirteenth busiest station in the UK outside London.\n\nIn 1822 the first survey for a railway line in the Cambridge area was made and, in the 1820s and 1830s a number of other surveys were undertaken none of which came to fruition although the Northern and Eastern Railway had opened up a line as far as Bishop's Stortford by May 1842.\nThe financial climate in the early 1840s ensured that no further scheme got off the ground, but by 1843, Parliament had passed an act enabling the Northern and Eastern Railway to extend the line to Newport (Essex). The following year, a further act was passed, extending the rights to build a railway through to Cambridge itself. In 1844, the Northern and Eastern Railway was leased by the Eastern Counties Railway (ECR), which built the extension.\n\nThe 1844 act also covered an extension of the line north of Cambridge to Brandon in Suffolk forming an end on connection to the line through to . Robert Stephenson was appointed engineer and on 29 July 1845, the station opened with services operating from Bishopsgate station in London via Stratford and Bishops Stortford.\n\nIn the years following the opening of the main line from Cambridge through to Norwich in 1845, other railways were built to Cambridge. Initially, some of these planned to have separate stations but opposition from the university saw them all eventually using the same station. The first line to arrive was the St Ives to line which opened in 1847 and was built by the East Anglian Railway. Services to also commenced that year, with the opening of the line from via to Peterborough, which also became the main route for coal traffic into East Anglia which was built by the Eastern Counties Railway.\n\nThe following year, the Eastern Counties Railway opened a line between St Ives and March which saw some passenger services although the coal traffic (mentioned above) was then diverted onto this route.\n\nIn 1851, a branch line from Newmarket to Cambridge (Coldham Lane Junction) was opened which partly used the alignment of the Newmarket and Chesterford Railway which subsequently closed. In 1854, the Newmarket line was extended eastwards to meet the Eastern Union Railway line at , allowing through running to .\n\nA parliamentary act in 1848 was granted to the Royston and Hitchin Railway to extend their line from . Although Cambridge was its goal, Parliament sanctioned only an extension as far as Shepreth (as the Eastern Counties Railway had opposed the extension to Cambridge). The line was completed in 1851 and initially the GNR, who had leased the Royston and Hitchin Railway in the interim, ran a connecting horse-drawn omnibus service. This proved unsuccessful so in April 1852, the line was extended to join the ECR main line south of Cambridge and was leased to the Eastern Counties Railway for 14 years with a connection to enable the ECR to run trains from Cambridge to Hitchin.\n\nIn 1862, the Bedford and Cambridge Railway opened. Originally a local undertaking, it was soon acquired by the London & North Western Railway (LNWR), extended to , and saw services between and Cambridge introduced on what became known as the \"Varsity Line\".\n\nBy the 1860s, the railways in East Anglia were in financial trouble, and most were leased to the ECR; they wished to amalgamate formally, but could not obtain government agreement for this until 1862, when the Great Eastern Railway was formed by amalgamation. Thus Cambridge became a GER station in 1862.\n\nThe University of Cambridge helped block later 19th-century attempts to create a central station.\n\nThe GER opened the cross-country line from Marks Tey via Sudbury and Haverhill to Shelford in 1865 which enabled the introduction of direct services to Colchester.\n\nThe Midland Railway built a line from Kettering to Huntingdon which opened in 1866 and services ran to Cambridge using running powers over the Huntingdon to St Ives line. In 1866 the Great Northern Railway (GNR) again applied to run services from King's Cross as the lease on the line to Hitchin was ending. Initially the GER opposed this but eventually agreement was reached and from 1 April 1866 services started operating between Cambridge and King's Cross from a dedicated platform at Cambridge station.\n\nIn 1882 the Great Northern and Great Eastern Joint Railway was opened. As well as becoming the major route for coal traffic from the north east to East Anglia it saw the introduction of direct services between London, Cambridge and York. Goods trains generally passed Cambridge on dedicated goods lines to the east of the station. Between these and the station a number of carriage sidings existed.\n\nThe next line to open was in 1884 when the Fordham line opened joining the main line towards Ely at Barnwell Junction. The following year the branch to Mildenhall railway station opened and services operated direct from there to Cambridge.\n\nEach of the four companies also had its own goods facilities in the station area, and, except for the M.R., its own motive power depot. The G.E.R. maintained a special locomotive for the Royal Train here for workings between London and Sandringham.\n\nIn the 1923 Grouping, the GER amalgamated with other railways to form the London and North Eastern Railway (LNER) and Cambridge became a LNER station. The Midland and LNWR similarly amalgamated with other railways to form the London, Midland and Scottish Railway (LMS).\n\nIn around 1928 the London and North Eastern Railway re-signalled the station replacing its five signal boxes with two electrically controlled boxes, with the work carried out by the British Power Railway Signal Company.\n\nFollowing nationalization of the UK's railways Cambridge station was operated by the Eastern Region of British Railways.\n\nEast Anglia was one of the first areas in the UK where British Railways wanted to phase out steam operation in favour of diesel traction. From 1959 diesels started to take over operation of services with Cambridge engine shed closing to steam in 1962. Diesel shunters and DMUs were allocated to another shed on the opposite side of the line known as Coldham Lane.\n\nThe 1960s saw a series of closures and a number of the lines serving Cambridge were closed at this time.\n\nFirst to go was the lightly used line to Mildenhall, closed to passengers on 18 June 1962.\n\nThe Stour Valley Railway route to via Haverhill and Sudbury closed on 6 March 1967 although the Sudbury-Marks Tey section remains operational as a branch line. The Varsity Line to Oxford also saw passenger services to Bedford withdrawn during this year (on 30 December 1967) as did the line between March and St Ives.\n\nPassenger services along the Cambridge & St. Ives Branch managed to survive the Beeching Axe, but with British Rail citing heavy losses the final passenger service ran between St Ives and Cambridge on 5 October 1970. Despite campaigns to reopen the service during the 1970s, the only subsequent rail traffic on the line was a freight service to Chivers in Histon which ran until 1983 and a contract to ferry sand from ARC at Fen Drayton which continued until May 1992.\n\nThe line from to Cambridge was electrified by British Rail in 1987, enabling electric trains to operate between Liverpool Street and Cambridge.\n\nWhen the link to from opened in 1991 the Cambridge line became more important; all non-stop trains now take this route to , reducing congestion on the very busy stretch of the West Anglia Main Line between and Bishop's Stortford.\n\nThe 1993 railways act came into force on 1 April 1994. Train Operating Units initially operated the services whilst the franchises were let.\n\nA number of different train operating companies (TOCs) have operated services at Cambridge station since privatization. West Anglia Great Northern which was initially owned by Prism Rail but then bought by National Express, operated the West Anglia Great Northern franchise from January 1997 until March 2004. This covered services to both London Liverpool and King's Cross stations as well as King's Lynn. In April 2004 the Liverpool Street route became part of National Express East Anglia (NXEA) franchise whilst the Great Northern route to King's Cross remained part of WAGN until March 2006 when it became part of the First Capital Connect franchise.\n\nServices to Ipswich and Norwich were initially operated by Anglia Railways from January 1997 and these routes later became part of the NXEA franchise.\n\nServices to and from the Midlands were operated by Central Trains from March 1997.\n\nIn November 2007 the Central Trains franchise was split up with services through Cambridge becoming part of the Arriva CrossCountry network.\n\nThe First Capital Connect franchise passed to Govia Thameslink Railway in September 2014.\n\nOn 1 April 1994 Railtrack became responsible for the maintenance of the national rail infrastructure.\n\nRailtrack was succeeded by Network Rail in 2002 following financial difficulties.\n\nThe \"CB1\" area in front of the station buildings had been due for redevelopment by Ashwell Property Group. In December 2009 the developers went bankrupt and reformed under the name Brookgate. Part of the redevelopment scheme had included a £1 million contribution towards the Cambridgeshire Guided Busway scheme passing through the area.\n\nA new island platform was brought into operational use in December 2011.\n\nIn 2012 the station infrastructure was under scrutiny as it emerged passengers were forced to queue for over 40 minutes to purchase tickets.\n\nIn 2014, the station operator Abellio Greater Anglia released plans to improve the station building at Cambridge as part of the CB1 project in the area. The works include a bigger concourse, more ticket gates and machines and a bigger ticket office. These opened in January 2017.\n\nThe station building, with its long classical façade and porte-cochère (infilled during the 20th century), has been attributed to both Sancton Wood and Francis Thompson and is listed Grade II. The long platform (platforms 1 and 4) is typical of its period but was unusual in that (apart from a brief period in the mid-19th century) it was not supplemented by another through platform until platforms 7 and 8 were added in 2011. Two further platforms (9 and 10) are proposed to the east of the station to accommodate additional planned services. There were major platform lengthenings and remodellings of the main building in 1863 and 1908. The station layout was altered in 1896 by deviating the Newmarket line approaches.\n\nAt , Cambridge has the third-longest railway platform in the UK on the main railway network, after and . This platform is divided into Platforms 1 and 4 with a scissors crossover in the middle to divide it in two, which allows trains from either direction to pass those already stopped there. Bay platforms exist at both ends of the station: Platforms 2 and 3 at the southern end of the station and Platforms 5 and 6 at the northern end. Platforms 7 and 8 are located on an island platform on the eastern side of the station. These came into use in December 2011.\n\nPlatform 1 is a 12-car bi-directional through platform generally used for southbound services to London King's Cross and northbound services to King's Lynn. It is also used for some early morning northbound services to Ely and for some late evening terminating services.\n\nPlatforms 2 (10-car) and 3 (8-car) are south-facing bay platforms generally used for services to and from London King's Cross or London Liverpool Street (with some Sunday services to Stratford).\n\nPlatform 4 is a bi-directional 10-car through platform generally used for northbound services to Ely, King's Lynn and Birmingham New Street. It is also used for some early morning southbound services to London King's Cross and London Liverpool Street and for some terminating late evening services.\n\nPlatform 5 is a 6-car north-facing bay platform generally used for services to and from Norwich (and occasional services to and from Birmingham New Street).\n\nPlatform 6 is a 6-car north-facing bay platform used for services to and from Ipswich (with occasional services to and from Harwich International).\n\nPlatforms 7 and 8 are bi-directional 12-car through platforms generally used for southbound services to London King's Cross, London Liverpool Street, Stansted Airport and Brighton via London St Pancras International. These platforms are also used for longer terminating trains from London Liverpool Street and London King's Cross.\n\n\nCambridge is served by several operators.\n\n\nIn 2017, a new railway station opened at Chesterton Junction Sidings on the Fen Line, 3 miles to the north in the Cambridge suburb of Chesterton, close to Cambridge Science Park. The station connects to the Cambridgeshire Guided Busway and provides an interchange with Park & Ride and local bus services. Construction commenced in July 2014 and the station became operational in May 2017.\n\nOnce the Thameslink Programme is complete (expected in May 2018), new services will be introduced from Cambridge to destinations south of central London. A proposed timetable was released in September 2016, with planned services for;\n\n\nPrior to 2016, it was proposed to run the stopping service to , however this proposal was cancelled in favour of the Maidstone East service.\n\nThameslink is also examining the possibility of extending the fast services to/from the new Cambridge North station.\n\nA new East West Rail is being developed allowing travel from Oxford to Cambridge and onto Norwich, Felixstowe without needing to go via London, which has not been possible since the Varsity line was closed in the 60s. The western section between Oxford and Bedford has already been given the go-ahead and partly built. The central section from Bedford to Cambridge is more difficult as parts of the Varsity route have been built on, for example by the guided busway. The preferred route from a new , via (new station) then across the East Coast Main Line at a new station between and to the Midland Main Line in Bedford. The government has committed £10 million of funding as part of the 2016 Autumn Statement to continue to develop the route.\n\nSeveral local bus services by Stagecoach in Cambridge and Whippet Coaches stop immediately south-west of the main station building. There are 9 stops linking the railway with the city centre and other parts of Cambridge, including Addenbrooke's Hospital, and the surrounding area. The southern section of the Cambridgeshire Guided Busway connects directly to the station, allowing buses to run from Trumpington via the station to St. Ives and Huntingdon. Buses also travel from the station out of the city to Sawston and Saffron Walden. A taxi rank is located just outside the main entrance.\n\nSince February 2016, a 3-story cycle parking facility, with up to 2,850 spaces, has been open, named Cambridge Cycle Point. It is located in a building just to the north of the main station entrance. The ground floor of Cycle Point has a cycle shop.\n\nOn 30 May 2015 the 09:14 GTR Great Northern service from London King's Cross failed to stop when entering a platform and collided at low speed with the stationary train it was due to couple with shortly after 10:00 BST. No damage was caused but three passengers were slightly injured.\n\nThe Eastern Counties Railway opened a small motive power depot at the station in 1845. This was replaced by a larger depot on the west side of the line at the north end of the station, in 1847 and this shed became a Great Eastern Railway shed in 1862. The shed was enlarged in 1913.\n\nCambridge was the principal shed of a main GE district and during World War 1 was recorded as having 101 drivers, 89 firemen under an inspector named G Dorrington. Repairs fell under a foreman fitter who had a staff of 70 men although responsibility for boiler repairs fell to the foreman boilermaker. There was also a wagon repair facility at the depot at this time led by a leading carpenter. Finally another foreman was charged with the day-to-day running of the depot as well as being responsible for the outstations such as King's Lynn, Ely, Mildenhall and seven others. A number of clerks would also have been employed at the depot.\n\nAt the end of 1922 the Great Eastern shed at Cambridge had an allocation of 178 locomotives being the second biggest shed on the Great Eastern after Stratford shed. The allocation consisted of:\n\nFurther enlargement and improvement of facilities took place in 1932. Most significantly a mechanical coaling plant was bought into use as well as the construction of a new lifting shop and modern sand dispensers.\n\nCambridge shed had two locomotives allocated for royal train workings at this time - Class D15 4-4-0s numbers 8783 and 8787 (known as the Royal Clauds) which were kept in pristine condition.\n\nFollowing nationalization in 1948 the shed was operated by British Railways Eastern Region. It was allocated shed code 31A at this time.\n\nIn the 1950s there was a dedicated pool of four drivers (known as the Royal Link) based at Cambridge who operated the two royal engines which were cleaned regularly. The locomotives were Class B2 4-6-0s numbers 61671 ‘Royal Sovereign’ and 61617 ‘Ford Castle’. The link system - which was operated throughout British Railways at this time was a career progression and at Cambridge these included Pilot Links (shunting), Branch Goods, Mainline Goods, Branch Passenger and Express links as well as route specific links to Bletchley, the GN (Hitchin) and Kettering routes.\n\nCambridge shed received its first allocation of diesels in 1958. The following year the last 2-4-0 locomotive in traffic on British Railways (Class E4 2-4-0 number 62785) was withdrawn from traffic and has been preserved in its GER guise of no 490 as part of the national collection. In 2018 it was on loan to Bressingham steam museum near Diss.\n\nThe shed closed 18 June 1962 and the demolition of Cambridge's loco shed building, repair shops and loco hoists leaving the shed offices and stores buildings took place in 1965. Some of the track in the former loco yard next to platform 6 was kept as engine sidings, while the rest was made into a car park.\n\nThe Great Eastern Railway opened a small motive power depot on the east side of the line at the south end of the station for its own and Great Northern Railway locomotives in 1879.\n\nAt the end of 1922 the Great Northern shed at Cambridge had an allocation of ten locomotives. The allocation consisted of:\n\nThis was closed by the London and North Eastern Railway in 1924, and used as a wagon works until it was demolished in 1985. The Bedfordshire and Cambridge Railway opened a small motive power depot on the west side of the line at the south end of the station in 1862. This was closed by the London Midland and Scottish Railway on 2 December 1935, but remained in use, unofficially until 1951. The building was demolished in 1964.\n\n"}
{"id": "1813114", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813114", "title": "Lake Taneycomo", "text": "Lake Taneycomo\n\nLake Taneycomo is a man-made lake or reservoir on the White River in the Ozark Mountains of Taney County, Missouri. The reservoir is named for the county in which it is located: \"Taney Co\"unty, \"MO\".\n\nLake Taneycomo originated when the White River was confined by the completion of the Powersite Dam, near Forsyth, Missouri, in 1913. From 1913 until 1958 it was a warm water lake. In the 1920s and 1930s, tourists began to be drawn to the lake and its nearby communities, Branson and Rockaway Beach. Water skiing, boating, fishing, sunning and swimming drew folks to the warm waters of Lake Taneycomo. Restaurants, lodging and amusement attractions such as bumper cars and skee ball were plentiful in the towns along the lake.\n\nThe completion of Table Rock Dam in 1958 changed the source of water to Taneycomo from that of the White River's flowing waters to the bottom tailwater of Table Rock Lake from the dam spillway and made it into a cold water lake. The clear cold waters from the deep tailwaters of Table Rock Lake pour out of the dam into Lake Taneycomo. The cold water made swimming and water sports undesirable. Tourism declined sharply in Rockaway Beach and started shifting to Branson and Table Rock Lake.\n\nAlthough tourism declined, fishermen found that the chilly water of Lake Taneycomo made it one of the top trout fishing lakes in the country. In 1957, the Missouri Department of Conservation constructed the Shepherd of the Hills Trout Hatchery. All methods of trout fishing — fly fishing, artificial bait, and live bait fishing — may be used year-round to pursue trout that inhabit the waters of Lake Taneycomo.\n\nLake Taneycomo has the characteristics of both a river and a lake. The shallow colder water, located near the Table Rock Dam, averages , resembles a river and permits wading and bank fishing for trout. The average temperature of the water gets warmer and the depth of the lake deepens to more than near the Powersite Dam in Forsyth. When Table Rock Dam is generating power its current is very strong throughout its whole length, its water temperature drops, and for all practical purposes it becomes a very deep, cold, fast running river. Exactly how deep, cold, and fast depends on how many generators are being used to generate electricity at Table Rock Dam.\n\nLake Taneycomo offers a variety of recreational activities including hiking, sightseeing, hunting, fishing, swimming, boating, and water skiing. People accessing Lake Taneycomo are able to visit area restaurants, accommodations, shopping, and shows in the Branson area.\n\n"}
{"id": "1813120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813120", "title": "Malaise trap", "text": "Malaise trap\n\nA malaise trap is a large, tent-like structure used for trapping, killing, and preserving flying insects, particularly Hymenoptera and Diptera. The trap is made of a material such as terylene netting and can be various colours. Insects fly into the tent wall and are funnelled into a collecting vessel attached to highest point. It was invented by René Malaise in 1934.\n\nMany versions of the malaise trap are used, but the basic structure consists of a tent with a large opening at the bottom for insects to fly into and a tall central wall that directs the flying insects upwards to a cylinder containing a killing agent. The chemicals vary according to purpose and access. Conventionally, cyanide was used inside the jar with an absorbent material.\n\nHowever, due to restrictions, many people use ethanol. Ethanol damages some flying insects such as lepidopterans, but most people use the malaise trap primarily for hymenopterans and dipterans. In addition, the ethanol keeps the specimens preserved for a longer period of time. Other dry killing agents including no-pest strips (dichlorvos) and ethyl acetate need to be checked more regularly.\n\nWhen choosing a malaise trap design, the types of insects to catch must be considered. The opening to the cylinder is of key importance. Typically, the opening is around , and can vary according to the size of insect desired. If using a dry agent, a smaller hole results in a faster death, limiting the amount of damage a newly caught insect can inflict on older, fragile specimens. In ethanol, this is less of a concern. Larger holes potentially allow in more butterflies, moths, and dragonflies.\n\nPlacement of the trap is very important; it should be positioned to maximize the number of flying insects that pass through the opening. This is determined by the natural features of the site. One should evaluate topography, vegetation, wind, and water. For example, if a wide corridor in a forest such as a trail is used, the trap should be oriented with its opening to the corridor. Also, places where vegetation is growing high around the opening limits the number of flying insects that enter the trap. Other ideal places may be above small streams or on edges of forests.\n\nA well-placed trap in ideal seasonal conditions can catch over 1,000 insects a day. Even in less ideal conditions, such as rain, the trap is still effective.\n\nThe malaise trap can also function as a light trap. If a lamp is placed at the end opposite of the opening, the light will attract insects into the trap. Specimens should be collected and removed at dawn and dusk to determine insects caught in daytime versus the night. Specimens should be removed from the trap at least once a week if using ethanol, or more often if using a dry killing agent.\n\nThe design of the trap catches insects that naturally fly upwards when they hit a barrier. However, some insects drop when meeting with a barrier. Addition of a pan with ethanol at the bottom of the main wall will catch specimens such as beetles that fall before reaching the top. A trap without the netting on top, but with just a preservative-filled basin under the barrier is commonly named a flight interception trap.\n\n"}
{"id": "1813122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813122", "title": "Amuse-bouche", "text": "Amuse-bouche\n\nAn amuse-bouche (; ) or amuse-gueule (, ; ) is a single, bite-sized\" hors d'œuvre\". Amuse-bouches are different from appetizers in that they are not ordered from a menu by patrons but are served free and according to the chef's selection alone. These are served both to prepare the guest for the meal and to offer a glimpse of the chef's style.\n\nThe term is French and literally means \"mouth amuser\". The plural form may be \"amuse-bouche\" or \"amuse-bouches\".\nIn France, is traditionally used in conversation and literary writing while \"amuse-bouche\" is not even listed in most dictionaries, being a euphemistic hypercorrection that appeared in the 1980s on restaurant menus and used almost only there. (In French, \"bouche\" refers to the human mouth, while \"gueule\" may mean the mouth or snout of an animal, though commonly used for \"mouth\" and derogatory only in certain expressions.)\n\nThe amuse-bouche emerged as an identifiable course during the nouvelle cuisine movement, which emphasized smaller, more intensely flavoured courses. It differs from other \"hors d'œuvres\" in that it is small, usually just one or two bites, and preselected by the chef and offered free of charge to all present at the table.\n\nThe function of the amuse-bouche could be played by rather simple offerings, such as a plate of olives or a crock of tapenade. It often becomes a showcase, however, of the artistry and showmanship of the chef, intensified by the competition among restaurants. According to Jean-Georges Vongerichten, a popular New York celebrity chef with restaurants around the world, \"The amuse-bouche is the best way for a great chef to express his or her big ideas in small bites\".\n\nAt some point, the amuse-bouche transformed from an unexpected bonus to a \"de rigueur\" offering at Michelin Guide-starred restaurants and those aspiring to that category (as recently as 1999, \"The New York Times\" provided a parenthetical explanation of the course). This in turn created a set of logistical challenges for restaurants: amuse-bouche must be prepared in sufficient quantities to serve all guests, usually just after the order is taken or between main courses. This often requires a separate cooking station devoted solely to producing the course quickly as well as a large and varied collection of specialized china for serving the amuse. Interesting plates, demitasse cups, and large Asian-style soup spoons are popular choices. In addition, the kitchen must try to accommodate guests that have an aversion or allergy to ingredients in the \"amuse\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1813124", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813124", "title": "Pension parachute", "text": "Pension parachute\n\nA pension parachute is a form of poison pill that prevents the raiding firm of a hostile takeover from utilizing the pension assets to finance the acquisition. When the target firm is threatened by an acquirer, the pension plan assets are only available to benefit the pension plan participants.\n\nIn corporate governance, the pension parachute protects the surplus cash in the pension fund of the target from unfriendly acquirers; the funds remain the property of the plan’s participants in the target company.\n\nThe law firm of Kelley Drye & Warren claims to be the pioneers of the \"pension parachute\". Their first pension parachute was implemented for Union Carbide, and its design was upheld in Union Carbide’s litigation with GAF.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1813125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813125", "title": "Fijian Association Party", "text": "Fijian Association Party\n\nThe Fijian Association Party (FAP) is a former political party in Fiji. It played a significant role in Fijian politics throughout the 1990s, but lost all of its seats in the House of Representatives in the parliamentary election of 2001.\n\nThe FAP was founded in 1994 by Josefata Kamikamica, head of the Native Land Trust Board and a former Minister of Finance. Following the parliamentary election of 1992, Kamikamica and five of his supporters had left the Soqosoqo ni Vakavulewa ni Taukei of Sitiveni Rabuka and unsuccessfully challenged him for the Prime Ministership, attempting to build a coalition government with the Indo-Fijian opposition. The party won five seats in the general election of 1994, which was called three years early because of political instability. Following Kamikamica's death from cancer in 1996, \"Ratu\" Finau Mara (the son of then-President \"Ratu Sir\" Kamisese Mara) took over the leadership. In 1998, he was replaced by \"Adi\" Kuini Speed, the widow of former Fiji Labour Party (FLP) Prime Minister Timoci Bavadra, who had been deposed in a coup led by Rabuka, then a Lieutenant Colonel in the army, in 1987. Speed joined the FAP in 1985 after falling out with her late husband's party over the direction in which Mahendra Chaudhry, the new leader, was taking it.\n\nIn the parliamentary election of 1999, the FAP joined with Chaudhry's FLP as part of the People's Coalition, an electoral alliance which also included a number of smaller parties. The FLP, supported mostly by Indo-Fijians, sought partnerships with parties led by ethnic Fijians in order to broaden its support base. The FAP won ten seats in the 71-member House of Representatives, its best result ever. The FAP initially proposed Speed for Prime Minister, saying that she would be more acceptable to indigenous Fijians than Chaudhry. President Mara, however, persuaded her to accept Chaudhry as Prime Minister, pointing out that the FLP had won a majority - 37 seats - in its own right. Towards the end of 1999, Speed survived a challenge to her leadership of the FAP in a divisive High Court case, which resulted in backbencher Ratu Tu'uakitau Cokanauto and his supporters splitting from the party.\n\nThe government of which the FAP was a part was deposed in the Fiji coup of 2000, instigated by George Speight. An election to restore democracy was held in 2001, but by this time many of its members had left to join the new Soqosoqo Duavata ni Lewenivanua of Laisenia Qarase. The FAP contested only 15 seats, on a platform of alleviating poverty through income-generating projects, reducing health costs and increasing education assistance for poor families, promoting indigenous Fijian culture, and increasing the participation rate of women at all levels of decision making. The party also attempted to make inroads into the Indo-Fijian electorate, accusing the United Fiji Party of promoting racism. The electorate was polarized to an extent not seen for more than a decade, however, with ethnic Fijians rallying behind the Soqosoqo Duavata ni Lewenivanua and its ally, the Conservative Alliance, and Indo-Fijians behind the FLP. All FAP candidates, including Speed, were defeated.\n\nIn June 2002, most members of the FAP joined with three other parties, including its former rival, the Soqosoqo ni Vakavulewa ni Taukei, to form the Fiji Democratic Party under the leadership of Filipe Bole. In April 2005, this party dissolved itself in order to merge with the newly formed National Alliance Party of Fiji, founded by \"Ratu\" Epeli Ganilau. A rump of the FAP continued for some time, under the leadership of Ratu Inoke Seru.\n"}
{"id": "1813131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813131", "title": "Luiseño language", "text": "Luiseño language\n\nThe Luiseño language is a Uto-Aztecan language of California spoken by the Luiseño, a Native American people who at the time of the first contacts with the Spanish in the 16th century inhabited the coastal area of southern California, ranging from the southern part of Los Angeles County, California, to the northern part of San Diego County, California, and inland . The people are called \"Luiseño\" owing to their proximity to the Mission San Luis Rey de Francia.\n\nThe language is highly endangered, but an active language revitalization project is underway, assisted by linguists from the University of California, Riverside. The Pechanga Indian Reservation offers classes for children, and in 2013, \"the tribe ... began funding a graduate-level Cal State San Bernardino Luiseño class, one of the few for-credit university indigenous-language courses in the country.\"\n\nAs of 2012, a Luiseño video game for the Nintendo DS is being used to teach the language to young people.\n\nThe dialect spoken by the Juaneño people is extinct.\n\nLuiseño is an agglutinative language, where words use suffix complexes for a variety of purposes with several morphemes strung together.\n\nLuiseño has five vowel phonemes. \nFor some native speakers recorded in \"The Sparkman Grammar of Luiseño\", the allophones and are free variants of and respectively. However, other speakers do not use these variants. Sparkman records fewer than 25 Luiseño words with either or . For one of these words (\"ixíla\" \"a cough\") the pronunciations and are both recorded.\n\nUnstressed freely varies with . Likewise, unstressed and are free variants.\n\nVowels are often syncopated when attaching certain affixes, notably the possessive prefixes \"no-\" \"my\", \"cham-\" \"our\", etc. Hence \"polóv\" \"good\", but \"o-plovi\" \"your goodness\"; \"kichum\" \"houses\" (nominative case), but \"kichmi\" \"houses\" (accusative case).\n\nLuiseño distinguishes vowel length quantitatively. Luiseño vowels have three lengths.\n\n\nOverlong vowels are rare in Luiseño, typically reserved for absolutes, such as interjections, e.g. \" aaashisha\", roughly \"haha!\" (more accurately an exclamation of praise, joy or laughter).\n\nA stress accent regularly falls on the first syllable of a word. In Luiseño, stress is fixed and is not contrastive.\n\nMany orthographies mark irregular stress with an acute accent on the stressed syllable's vowel, e.g. \"chilúy\" \"speak Spanish\". In these systems, irregularly stressed long vowels either carry a written accent on both vowels or the first vowel only, e.g. \"koyóówut\" or \"koyóowut\" \"whale\". Also, stress is not visually represented when it falls on the first syllable, e.g. \"hiicha\" \"what\".\n\nAnother convention is to mark stress by underlining accented vowels, e.g. \"koyoowut\" \"whale\".\n\nAs a rule, the possessive prefixes are unstressed. The accent remains on the first syllable of the root word, e.g. \"nokaamay\" \"my son\" and never\" *nokaamay\". One rare exception is the word \" pó-ha\" \"alone\" (< \"po-\" \"his/her/its\" + \"ha\" \"self\"), whose invariable prefix and fixed accent suggests that it is now considered a single lexical item (compare \"noha \"\"myself\", \"poha \"\"him/herself\", etc.).\n\nLuiseño has a fairly rich consonant inventory.\n\n\nAlong with an extensive oral tradition, Luiseño has a written tradition that stretches back to the Spanish settlement of San Diego. Pablo Tac (1822–1841), a native Luiseño speaker and Mission Indian, was the first to develop an orthography for his native language while studying in Rome to be a Catholic priest. His orthography leaned heavily on Spanish, which he learned in his youth.\n\nAlthough Luiseño has no standard orthography, a commonly accepted spelling is implemented in reservation classrooms and college campuses in San Diego where the language is taught. The various orthographies that have been used for writing the language show influences from Spanish, English and Americanist phonetic notation.\n\nThe Lord's Prayer (or the Our Father) in Luiseño, as recorded in \"The Sparkman Grammar of Luiseño\":\n\nLinguist John Peabody Harrington made a series of recordings of speakers of Luiseño in the 1930s. Those recordings, made on aluminum disks, were deposited in the United States National Archives. They have since been digitized and made available over the internet by the Smithsonian Institution.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1813144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813144", "title": "Painiac", "text": "Painiac\n\nPainiac is a 1995 EP released by Raymond Watts (as PIG). \"Painiac\" has only ever been released in Japan. The version of the song that appears on this single is that of an earlier recording than the version that appears on Sinsation. \n\n\nAll tracks written by Raymond Watts.\n\n"}
{"id": "1813146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813146", "title": "Jackal (video game)", "text": "Jackal (video game)\n\nThe Jackal unit is an elite group of four soldiers that have undergone a harsh training regiment to survive in any environment. The team is composed of Colonel Decker, Lieutenant Bob, Sergeant Quint and Corporal Grey. They have been given a mission to drive two armed jeeps into hostile territory in order to rescue and extract POWs.\n\n\"Jackal\" can be played by up to two players simultaneously. A second player can join in during play anytime and the two jeeps are numbered on their hoods to indicate which player is controlling it. The controls consists of an eight way joystick and two attack buttons. The first button fires the jeep's machine gun turret (which always shoots northward), while the second button is used to launch grenades towards the direction the jeep is facing. The grenade launcher can be upgraded into a missile launcher, which can be further upgraded up to three times, giving it a longer reach and then allowing it to fire shrapnel rounds that spreads in to two or four directions. The machine gun has weaker firepower but a faster firing rate, while the grenade/missile launcher can destroy most enemy vehicles and artillery in one shot, as well as destroy gates and buildings.\n\nThe game starts with a pair of transport helicopters dropping player's jeep into the coast of the enemy territory, followed by a plane which drops the jeep's driver and gunner. The main objective is to penetrate the enemy's main headquarters and destroy their ultimate weapon. Along the way, the player will proceed through numerous internment camps where the POWs are being held. Prisoners held in solitary camps will upgrade the jeep's grenade/missile launcher by one level. The player's jeep can only carry up to eight prisoners and once it is filled, the player must drive to the nearest heliport where an extraction chopper awaits to retrieve them. The player receives more points if he extracts prisoners in succession. If the player successfully extracts eight prisoners in a row into the chopper, the jeep's missile launcher will be upgraded to the next level. \"Jackal\" does not have a traditional stage structure, instead the entire game takes place in one long continuous level. The player will go through a variety of different areas throughout the course of the mission such as an ancient ruins, a lake, a hill and a mountain before reaching the enemy headquarters. The background music changes the further the players goes into the game.\n\nThe player's jeep can run over foot soldiers, but will be destroyed if it gets shot by a projectile or collides with an enemy vehicle. When the player's jeep is destroyed, a replacement jeep will appear and the missile launcher that will be downgraded by one level. If the previous jeep was carrying POWs, the survivors will spread themselves out from the wreckage, waiting to be picked up again. An extra jeep can be obtained by obtaining a certain number of points. The game ends when the player accomplishes his mission or runs out of replacement jeeps. A map is shown at the game over screen showing how far the player has progressed. While \"Jackal\" does feature a continue feature, the player can \"cheat\" the game by using the join-in feature and switch to the other control panel before being taken to the game over screen.\n\n\"Jackal\" was originally designed to be played with rotary joysticks similar to the ones used by SNK in some of their games at the time such as \"TNK III\" and \"Ikari Warriors\". The rotary joystick allowed the player to not only maneuver the jeep, but also control the direction of where the machine gun turret is aimed, allowing the player to shoot in any of eight directions. A version of \"Jackal\" with this control scheme was market tested, but didn't receive wide distribution. The wide releases of the game use a standard eight way joystick instead.\n\nThe game was distributed as \"Tokushu Butai Jackal\" in Japan, \"Top Gunner\" in North America and simply as \"Jackal\" in Europe, Oceania and Asia. The Japanese version of the game differs from the other releases in which the player's jeep shoots at the direction it faces instead of always shooting northward, affecting the kind of tactics that the player must employ in order to proceed through the mission. Aside from the title, the \"Top Gunner\" variant of the game is almost identical to the international version of \"Jackal\", but has a slight cosmetic difference: the yellow and blue flags that adorned the player jeeps in \"Jackal\" have each been replaced by a U.S. flag.\n\n\"Jackal\" was released for the Nintendo Entertainment System (NES) on September 1988 in North America. Despite the fact that the arcade game was distributed in the U.S. under the title of \"Top Gunner\", Konami decided to release the NES version under a different title to avoid confusion with their video game adaptation of \"Top Gun\". The NES \"Jackal\" has the following differences from the arcade version.\nA Japanese version was released for the Family Computer Disk System (FDS) a few months earlier on May 2, 1988 under the title of This earlier version lacks some of the content that were later added to its NES counterpart due to the fact that it was released in disk card format rather than on a ROM cartridge. Namely, the stages in the FDS versions scrolls vertically only, have different layouts and are much shorter as a result. The beach stage is not featured in the FDS version and thus, the ruins (Stage 2 in the NES version) serves as the introductory stage instead.\n\nIn Europe, Konami released ports of \"Jackal\" for the ZX Spectrum, Amstrad CPC and Commodore 64 in 1988. An MS-DOS version was released in North America in 1989 alongside a different Commodore 64 port. These versions were roughly based on the arcade game. A ROM image of the NES \"Jackal\" is included in the Windows PC compilation \"Konami Collector's Series: Castlevania & Contra\" released in 2002 in North America. However, the game is inaccessible by legitimate means and can only be found by extracting it from the executable. The game is virtually identical to the original NES release, aside from the updated copyrights date.\n\nOn July 29, 2009, Konami released a mobile version of \"Akai Yōsai\" for feature phones through their service. This version features the added content from the NES version of \"Jackal\", as well as improved graphics much closer in quality to the arcade version. An unrelated mobile version of \"Jackal\" (also based on the NES game) was released by Konami for the Chinese market on August 5, 2010.\n\nThe arcade version of \"Jackal\" was released for the Game Room service on October 27, 2010.\n\n"}
{"id": "1813149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813149", "title": "Table Rock Lake", "text": "Table Rock Lake\n\nTable Rock Lake is an artificial lake or reservoir in the Ozarks of southwestern Missouri and northwestern Arkansas. The lake is impounded by Table Rock Dam (located ), constructed from 1954 to 1958 on the White River by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers.\n\nIt is a popular attraction for the town of Shell Knob, Missouri and the nearby town of Branson, Missouri. There are several commercial marinas along the lake, and Table Rock State Park is located on the east side, both north and south of Table Rock Dam. Downstream from the dam, the Missouri Department of Conservation operates a fish hatchery, which is used to stock trout in Lake Taneycomo. The cold water discharged from the dam creates a trout fishing environment in the lake.\n\nThe lake derives its name from a rock formation resembling a table at the small community of Table Rock, Missouri on Highway 165 about a mile and a half downstream from where the dam was built.\n\n\"The lake area temperature varies according to season\":\n\n\"Dam and Outlet Measurements\"\n\n\n\"Dam elevations above mean sea level\"\n\"Lake elevations above mean sea level\"\n\"Surface area of lake\"\n\n\"Maximum storage capacity\"\n\"Shoreline length\"\n\"Other\"\n\"Power generating data\"\n\nThe original purpose of the reservoir was for flood control on the White River. The dam had been authorized a month earlier under the Flood Control Act of September 3, 1943. The reservoir has a fluctuation of . When the reservoir is above the maximum flood pool, excess water goes over the auxiliary overflow spillway at the north end of the dam.\n\nTable Rock Dam’s spillway capacity was evaluated as a result of a dam safety program in the 1990s. Using improved weather data and more modern technology and safety requirements, engineers determined that the lake would rise ten feet higher during the worst-case flood than previously calculated. An event of this magnitude would overtop the earthen embankment and destroy Table Rock Dam with catastrophic losses in downstream areas, including Branson. To prevent the potential loss of life and property damages, congress approved and authorized construction of the Dam Safety Project. After considering several options and gathering considerable public input, an auxiliary spillway was determined to be the best solution. The auxiliary spillway was completed in 2005 at a cost of approximately $65,000,000.\n\nAt elevation 931 Table Rock Lake is at full flood capacity or flood pool. Water may begin to splash over the top of the closed Tainter gates and some of them usually begin to be slightly opened to accommodate additional lake inflow from the White River Basin including the James River and Beaver Lake discharge. If the Tainter Gates are not opened to release water via the dam spillway, water from the lake will begin to spill over those closed gates by approximately 933 feet.\n\nAt elevation 937 Table Rock Lake is 6 feet above flood capacity. All ten Tainter gates are opened wider in an effort to stabilize reservoir rise. Outflow from the Lake under these circumstances will be nearing 200-300 thousand cubic feet per second (CFS).\n\nAt elevation 942 Table Rock Lake is 11 feet above flood capacity and at its \"design pool\", or the maximum elevation that the reservoir is engineered to reach, under \"probable maximum flood\" scenarios. The dam’s ten Tainter gates will be fully raised to their maximum height of approximately 30 feet letting loose 550 thousand CFS into Lake Taneycomo. \n\nThis scenario would effectively submerge and destroy the powerhouse, power transmission grid, hatchery, and wreak serious destruction down stream.\n\nAt elevation 947 Table Rock Dam would be at its maximum capacity and water would be at the very top of the dam. The auxiliary spillway would be brought online, in concert with Table Rock’s fully opened floodgates. \n\nThis catastrophic or \"last resort\" protocol releases 1 million CFS of lake waters into Taneycomo and deals dreadful destruction to Branson, Hollister, Point Lookout and possibly the Powersite Dam. \n\nAt this point there is a danger of water overtopping the concrete dam and breaching the earthen structure, which imminently leads to cataclysmic structural failure and the uncontrolled release of the Table Rock Lake impoundment—nearly 3 million CFS of water.\n\nTable Rock Lake has a record crest of 935.47 feet, which occurred on April 27, 2011.\n\nIn December 2015, the dam released 72,000 CFS at its peak. This is the highest amount ever released.\n\nTable Rock State Park provides public access to the lake. Six miles from Branson and located just south of the dam and outlet, facilities include a boat launch and full service marina (including cafe, boat rental and scuba dive shop), campground (including full RV hookups and a yurt), fishing access, swimming access (no beach), picnic area, amphitheater, hiking and mountain bike trails, and dump station.\n\nArea71 is a recreational vehicle (RV) resort, restaurant, and general store on Table Rock Lake in Shell Knob, Missouri. The store and restaurant were completely rebuilt in 2016 with an expanded menu and bait shop. The RV park features views of Table Rock Lake with long term site rental agreements.\n"}
{"id": "1813150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813150", "title": "Pinaka", "text": "Pinaka\n\nPinaka may refer to:\n"}
{"id": "1813153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813153", "title": "Brand alliances", "text": "Brand alliances\n\nBrand alliances is a branding strategy used in a business alliance. Brand alliances are divided into three types.\n\nCobrands are the usage of two or more brands on one certain product. For example, Dell computers carry three brands on their packages and cases: Dell, Microsoft Windows, and Intel. A visible example of cobranding is combining two or more of their restaurants under one roof. In many places, it is not unusual to see a Taco Bell and KFC or a Pizza Hut and WingStreet combined.\n\nBrand licenses are a contractual agreement where a company lets another organization use its brand on other products in exchange for a licensing fee. An example of brand licensing is seen in the Walt Disney Company's relationship to Tokyo Disneyland. The theme park is owned by The Oriental Land Company, which licenses the theme from The Walt Disney Company.\n\nCross marketing is an agreement for mutual promotion between two companies. One company for instance will include coupons for another company in its parcels to its clients if the other company will agree to include a promotion from the other company in its direct mails to its client base.\n"}
{"id": "1813165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813165", "title": "USS Orizaba", "text": "USS Orizaba\n\nUSS \"Orizaba\" (ID-1536/AP-24) was a transport ship for the United States Navy in both World War I and World War II. She was the sister ship of but the two were not part of a ship class. In her varied career, she was also known as USAT \"Orizaba in service for the United States Army, and as SS \"Orizaba in interwar civilian service for the Ward Line, and as \"Duque de Caxias\" (U-11) as an auxiliary in the Brazilian Navy after World War II.\n\n\"Orizaba\" made 15 transatlantic voyages for the navy carrying troops to and from Europe in World War I with the second-shortest average in-port turnaround time of all navy transports. The ship was turned over to the War Department in 1919 for use as army transport USAT \"Orizaba\". After her service in World War I ended, \"Orizaba\" reverted to the Ward Line, her previous owners. The ship was briefly engaged in transatlantic service to Spain and then engaged in New York–Cuba–Mexico service until 1939, when the ship was chartered to United States Lines. While \"Orizaba\" was in her Ward Line service, American poet Hart Crane leapt to his death from the rear deck of the liner off Florida in April 1932.\n\nIn World War II the ship was requisitioned by the War Shipping Administration and again assigned to the War Department as USAT \"Orizaba\". After completing one voyage as an Army transport, the ship was transferred to the U.S. Navy, where she was re-commissioned as USS \"Orizaba\" (AP-24). The ship made several transatlantic runs, was damaged in an air attack in the Allied invasion of Sicily, and made trips to South America. The transport also served in the Pacific Theatre, making several transpacific voyages, and one to the Aleutians.\n\nIn June 1945, \"Orizaba\" was transferred under Lend-Lease to the Brazilian Navy where she served as \"Duque de Caxias\" (U-11). In August 1945, \"Duque de Caxis\" carried parts of the Brazilian Expeditionary Force from Naples back to Rio de Janeiro. The ship was badly damaged by a fire in 1947, but was repaired and remained in service. Permanently transferred to Brazil in 1953, \"Duque de Caxias\" was decommissioned in 1959 and scrapped in 1963.\n\n\"Orizaba\" was long between perpendiculars, with a beam of . She had a depth of and a draft of . Propulsion was four steam turbines of 1,908 nhp driving twin screw propellers through single reduction gearing. She was fitted with of refrigerated cargo space. The refrigerant was brine and insulation was by means of cork.\n\n\"Orizaba\"—named after the town of Orizaba, Veracruz, Mexico—was laid down for the Ward Line by William Cramp & Sons Ship and Engine Building Company of Philadelphia and launched in February 1917. In mid-1917 the United States Shipping Board (USSB) commandeered and received title to all private shipbuilding projects in progress, including the still-incomplete \"Orizaba\" and her sister ship \"Siboney\". Plans for both ships were modified for troop-carrying duties. Upon \"Orizaba\"'s completion, the USSB delivered her to the US Navy for transport duty on 11 April 1918, and she was commissioned as USS \"Orizaba\" (ID-1536) on 27 May.\nAssigned to the Atlantic Transport Service, \"Orizaba\" carried over 15,000 troops in six convoy trips to France before the end of World War I. In one such voyage, \"Orizabas executive officer, ordnance expert William Price Williamson, worked closely with Commander Richard Drace White—\"Orizabas commanding officer, himself an ordnance expert—to develop a workable depth charge launcher which would provide the transport with a measure of protection from enemy submarines. Williamson set about modifying a Lyle gun into a depth charge launcher, and successfully tested it on 16 August 1918. While attempting another test with an increased propellant charge the following day, a defective fuse exploded the depth charge prematurely, killing Williamson and three other sailors. White, four other officers, and twenty-two enlisted men were also wounded in the blast.\n\nFour days later on 21 August at 08:30, \"Orizaba\", traveling with \"Siboney\", spotted a submarine in the act of submerging. \"Orizaba\" attempted to ram the sub and dropped depth charges, but there was no indication that the attack was successful.\n\nIn December 1918, she was temporarily assigned to assist the French government in repatriating French, Belgian, and Italian prisoners of war. Detached from that duty on 10 January 1919, she joined the Cruiser and Transport Force at Brest, and in nine voyages returned over 31,700 troops to the United States. After the completion of transport duty service in the summer of 1919, she was decommissioned on 4 September and subsequently turned over to the Army for further transport service as USAT \"Orizaba\". The boat served in that capacity until returned to the Ward Line in 1920.\n\nAccording to the Statistical Department of the US Navy, \"Orizaba\" had the second-shortest average in-port turnaround time out of 37 US Navy transports used in World War I. The ship completed 15 round trips with an average turn-around time of just over 30 days per trip, while the overall Navy average was 39.8 days.\n\nAfter \"Orizaba\" and \"Siboney\" were reacquired by the Ward Line, \"Orizaba\" was registered as a merchant vessel. Her port of registry was New York, and United States Official Number 216294 and Code Letters LJKM were allocated to her. \"Orizaba\" and \"Siboney\" were placed in transatlantic service on New York–Cuba–Spain routes in 1920, with \"Orizaba\" calling at Corunna, Santander, and Bilbao in Spain. The two ships accommodated 306 first-class, 60 second-class, and 64 third-class passengers, with each ship making several trips on the route, but a lack of passengers (along with the grounding of \"Siboney\" at Vigo in September 1920) led to the abandonment of the route.\n\nBy October 1921, \"Orizaba\" was placed in New York–Cuba–Mexico service, where business thrived, in part because of Prohibition in the United States. Ward Line cruises to Havana were one of the quickest and least expensive ways to what one author called \"alcohol-enriched vacations\". Three years later, the ship underwent a major refit that, among other things, lengthened her funnels. A typical voyage at this time sailed from New York and called at Nassau, Havana, Progreso, Veracruz and Tampico.\n\nBy the early 1930s, \"Orizaba\"'s typical route had remained virtually the same, though Nassau and Tampico were dropped as ports of call. It was in this period that American poet Hart Crane leapt to his death from \"Orizaba\". At around noon on 27 April 1932, while the ship was headed to New York—some north of Havana and off the Florida coast—Crane, clad in pajamas and overcoat, climbed the rail at the stern of the ship and plunged into the ocean. The captain of \"Orizaba\" immediately stopped the ship and launched four lifeboats that searched in vain for two hours, but no trace of the poet was ever found. Before he jumped, Crane had been drinking and, the night before, had been the victim of violence after a unwanted pick-up attempt of a crewman ended with a severe beating.\nIn 1934, \"Orizaba\" was allocated the Code Letters WECX. In April 1934, American actress Katharine Hepburn sailed from New York on \"Orizaba\", eventually ending up in Mérida, Yucatán. After her arrival there on 22 April, she filed for divorce from businessman Ludlow (\"Luddy\") Ogden Smith, whom she had married in December 1928. After the divorce was finalized she and her travel companion, Laura Harding, planned to spend a week in Havana and return to New York on the Ward Line ship . Other notable passengers on \"Orizaba\" in the 1930s included Ecuadorean diplomat Gonzalo Zaldumbide and Cuban president Fulgencio Batista. Zaldumbide, the Ecuadorean Minister to the United States, sailed to Mexico for his new posting as Minister to Mexico in August 1932. In February 1939, \"Orizaba\" carried Cuban leader Fulgencio Batista back to Havana after a two-week goodwill visit to Mexico.\n\nBeginning in the mid-1930s, \"Orizaba\" often carried gold and silver bars from Veracruz to New York for the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, Chase National Bank, or for later transshipment to London. In October 1933 three short tons (2.7 tonnes) of gold bars and coins were shipped on \"Orizaba\" for eventual delivery to London, prompting some to believe that gold was being smuggled into Mexico to take advantage of its policy of not charging duties on gold. In July 1934 \"Orizaba\" brought in 16 cases of Mexican gold, and in January 1935, 20 cases; in both instances, for delivery to Chase National Bank. Twice in 1935, the Ward liner delivered over 1,000 bars of silver for the Federal Reserve Bank, bringing 1,390 bars in March, and 1,933 bars in July. Mexico was not the only place from which \"Orizaba\" delivered precious metals. In March 1934, she delivered 12 cases of gold—consisting of 84 bars, and worth $1,624,000—from Havana for Chase.\n\nIn mid-1939, \"Orizaba\" was chartered to United States Lines as one of five ships added to increase what was perceived as a slow rate of return of US citizens fleeing war-torn Europe. In September, the ship was diverted to Galway to pick up American survivors of , torpedoed by \"U-30\" on 3 September; \"Orizaba\" returned with 240 of the survivors later that month. After completing evacuation service, the ship was laid up in New York in the summer of 1940, and subsequently purchased by the Maritime Commission on behalf of the Army on 27 February 1941.\n\nAfter her reacquisition by the War Department, \"Orizaba\" completed one round trip to the Panama Canal Zone. On her return she put in for a refit by the Bethlehem Steel Company at New York. After she was transferred to the Navy on 4 June 1941, she was commissioned as \"Orizaba\" (AP-24) on 15 June 1941.\n\nFollowing several months of coastal operations, \"Orizaba\", now armed with two  guns and four  guns, departed New York in April 1942 on the first transatlantic run of her Second World War. Sailing via Iceland, she steamed to England, Cape Town, Recife, and Norfolk, Virginia, from which she got underway for Bermuda and Puerto Rico. Returning to Norfolk in January 1943, she plied the eastern seaboard for a month, then took up transatlantic duties again. Until July she traversed the ocean to Oran, Algeria, carrying troops over and prisoners of war back to New York.\n\nOn 5 July she left Oran in Task Force (TF) 81. The next day, she rendezvoused with TF 85 and on 9 July stood off Gela, Sicily, disembarking troops into landing craft. On 11 July, she sustained slight damage in an enemy air attack and retired to Algeria the next day with casualties and prisoners on board. She returned to Sicily at the end of the month to discharge troops and cargo at Palermo and then, on the night of 1 August, weighed anchor and stood out for home.\n\nArriving at New York on 22 August 1943, she underwent an overhaul, then took on runs to Brazil and the Caribbean. At the end of the year she left the east coast, passed through the Panama Canal, and sailed on to the southwestern Pacific. After calls at Samoa, Nouméa, Brisbane, and Milne Bay, she returned to the west coast in March 1944, only to leave again for another central Pacific run. Back at San Francisco in June, she underwent repairs; completed a run to the Marshalls and Marianas; and then sailed north to the Aleutians. Completing her northern run at Seattle, Washington, on 1 December, she carried men and supplies to Hawaii, then returned to San Francisco, later sailing to New Guinea, the Philippines, and Ulithi to add men and materiel to forces gathering for the Battle of Okinawa.\n\nFrom Ulithi, \"Orizaba\" sailed east, passed through the Panama Canal again, and, as the battle for Okinawa raged, arrived at Tampa, Florida. Decommissioned on 23 April, she underwent an overhaul and on 16 July 1945 she was transferred to Brazil under the terms of Lend-Lease. The ship was permanently transferred to Brazil in June 1953 and struck from the US Naval Vessel Register on 20 July of that same year. \"Orizaba\" received one battle star for her US Navy service in World War II.\n\nAssuming control of the vessel at Tampa on 16 July 1945, the Brazilian Navy renamed the veteran transport \"Duque de Caxias\" (U-11), the second ship of that navy named in honor of Luís Alves de Lima e Silva, Duke of Caxias, the patron of the Brazilian Army.\n\n\"Duque de Caxias\" headed to Naples and on 28 August 1945 left there with elements of the returning Brazilian Expeditionary Force. The ship arrived at Rio de Janeiro for the first time on 17 September 1945. The ship then loaded American military stores from US bases in Brazil and sailed for New York, arriving on 10 November 1945, with plans to repatriate wounded Brazilian soldiers who had been recuperating in the US.\n\nOn 31 July 1947, a day after sailing from Rio de Janeiro for Europe, oil spilled on the ship's boilers, causing an engine-room fire that quickly spread through the first class cabins and killed 27. The ship was towed from its position off Cabo Frio into Rio de Janeiro on 1 August 1947. The ship had been carrying 1,060 passengers bound for Lisbon, Naples, and Marseille, along with 500 crew members, and had been scheduled to carry Italian refugees on its return voyage.\n\nIn 1953, \"Duque de Caxias\" was converted into a training ship, and in August of that year began a European and Mediterranean training cruise, which included a 12-day visit to New York in March 1954 as part of its homeward leg. The ship visited the United States again in December 1955, with midshipmen aboard who were touring the United States Naval Academy and who were honored at a cocktail party by the Brazilian Ambassador, João Carlos Muniz, at the Brazilian Embassy in Washington, D.C. In October the following year, \"Duque de Caxias\" called at Philadelphia, and the new Brazilian Ambassador Ernani do Amaral Peixoto—also an Admiral in the Brazilian Navy—and his wife sponsored a tea dance in honor of Captain Antonio Andrade, other officers of the ship, and the midshipmen aboard the ship; Peixoto had traveled to Philadelphia to greet Andrade, a former naval attaché at the embassy. The ship was decommissioned 13 April 1959, and finally scrapped in 1963.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1813168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813168", "title": "Guildford (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Guildford (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nGuildford is a constituency in Surrey represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament since 2019 by Angela Richardson, a Conservative.\n\nFrom the first Commons in the Model Parliament of 1295 Guildford was a parliamentary borough sending two members to Parliament until 1868 and one until 1885. In the latter years of sending two members a bloc vote system of elections was used. Until 1885 the electorate in the town of Guildford elected the member(s) of parliament, which expanded in 1885 into a county division under the Redistribution of Seats Act 1885.\n\nThe seat elected between 1868 and 2001 Conservatives. Exceptions in this period took place when the two-then-three main British parties' policies were beginning to coalesce. The first was a continuation of the centuries-old representation of Guildford by influential members of the Earl of Onslow's family, including a single member winning three widely spaced elections, before being defeated by a further member of the same family in its minor Sussex and British Indian branch, then the majority of the seat's voters were again swayed toward the Liberal landslide of the 1906 general election.\n\nSuccessive elections in 2001 and 2005 saw marginal majorities of under 2% of the vote - in favour of a Liberal Democrat and then a Conservative. The 2015 result brought the incumbent MP a conservative majority of more than 41%, up from 14% in 2010.\n\n1885–1918: The Boroughs of Guildford and Godalming, the Sessional Division of Farnham, and part of the Sessional Division of Guildford.\n\n1918–1950: The Boroughs of Guildford and Godalming, the Urban District of Haslemere, the Rural District of Hambledon, and the Rural District of Guildford except the civil parish of Pirbright.\n\n1950–1983: The Borough of Guildford, in the Rural District of Guildford the parishes of Artington, Compton, Puttenham, Shackleford, Shalford, Wanborough, and Worplesdon, and in the Rural District of Hambledon the parishes of Alfold, Bramley, Busbridge, Cranleigh, Dunsfold, Ewhurst, Hambledon, Hascombe, and Wonersh.\n\n1983–1997: The Borough of Guildford wards of Christchurch, Friary and St Nicolas, Holy Trinity, Merrow and Burpham, Onslow, Pilgrims, Shalford, Stoke, Stoughton, Tongham, Westborough, and Worplesdon, and the District of Waverley wards of Blackheath and Wonersh, Bramley, Cranleigh East, Cranleigh West, Ewhurst, and Shamley Green.\n\n1997–2010: As above less Tongham ward.\n\n2010–present: The Borough of Guildford wards of Burpham, Christchurch, Friary and St Nicolas, Holy Trinity, Merrow, Onslow, Pilgrims, Shalford, Stoke, Stoughton, Westborough, and Worplesdon, and the Borough of Waverley wards of Alfold, Blackheath and Wonersh, Cranleigh East, Cranleigh Rural and Ellens Green, Cranleigh West, Ewhurst, and Shamley Green and Cranleigh North.\n\nThe seat, at greatest limits from 1885-1918, still comprises Guildford and nearby parts of Surrey.\n\n\"prior to 1868 the constituency was jointly represented by two MPs\"\n\nThis constituency underwent boundary changes between the 1992 and 1997 general elections and thus change in share of vote is based on a notional calculation.\n\nBoundaries were redrawn in time for the 1950 general election. From 1918 to 1950 the three parts of western Surrey are set out at the 1918 results below. The next change saw an additional seat duty carved out, to be Woking. As a result, Guildford, now oversized, shrank considerably in area and population. To the south the areas of Godalming, Elstead, Thursley, Whitley, Haslemere and Chiddingford were added to the Farnham seat. To the east Send, Ripley, Wisley, Ockham, St Martha, Albury, Shere, Clandon and Horsley were added to Dorking.\n\nThese boundaries centred on the town of Guildford plus an area southwards towards Cranleigh, became, with small changes in later reviews, form the basic shape for Guildford until present.\n\nFrom 1885 to 1918 the west part of Surrey had been represented by two seats - in the north the seat of Chertsey, in the south that of Guildford. Boundaries were redrawn for proper apportionment in time for the 1918 general election such that the same area saw three seats - Farnham in the west, Chertsey in the north east and Guildford in the south east.\n\nAs a result the seat lost the areas of Ash, Normandy, Seale, Frensham and Farnham, towards its west, but to the east gained the areas of Merrow, Send, Ripley, Ockham, Wisley, Clandon and Horsley from Chertsey.\n\nConstituency boundaries were redrawn in time for the 1885 general election. From 1868 to 1885 the west part of Surrey had been represented by two constituencies, one known as Guildford (which consisted of the town centre of Guildford and little else) and one constituency known as Surrey Western, which comprised the rest of that part of the county of Surrey. The Guildford constituency was both geographically and in size of electorate significantly smaller than the Surrey Western constituency. The 1885 to 1918 constituency boundaries saw the area of west Surrey divided into two constituencies more equal in size of population and land area. The north part of west Surrey was given the constituency name Chertsey, the south part Guildford.\n\nConstituency boundaries were redrawn in time for the 1868 election.\n\nPrior to the 1868 general election, the constituency of Guildford was represented by two Members of Parliament. That was reduced to one from 1868 onwards.\n\nThe 1868 to 1885 constituency known as Guildford was geographically limited to an area around the current centre of Guildford town. This is in marked contrast to the various post-1885 versions of the constituency known as Guildford all of which have had a much greater geographical area. The 1868 constituency was, at its maximum, little over one mile east to west, and just over one mile north to south. (Most of the area which is in the modern constituency of Guildford would in 1868 have been part of the Surrey Western Constituency, rather than the Guildford Constituency.)\n\nThe 17 December 1866 by-election was caused by Bovill resigning as an MP following his appointment to judicial office, namely Chief Justice of the Court of Common Pleas.\n\nThe 11 July 1866 by-election resulted from the need of Bovill to seek re-election upon his appointment as Solicitor General for England and Wales. Long withdrew from the contest before polling.\n\nParty designations for many candidates during the 1830s, 1840s and 1850s can be problematic as party ties were not as strong as those that developed, in Britain, in the late 19th century. Therefore, for the 1830s to 1850s election results, listed below, the term Liberal includes Whigs and Radicals; and the term Conservative includes Tories and Peelites, unless otherwise specified.\n\nThe 22 October 1858 by-election was caused by RD Mangles resigning as an MP following his appointment as Member of the Council of India.\n\nConstituency boundaries were redrawn in time for the 1832 general election.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1813169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813169", "title": "God (male deity)", "text": "God (male deity)\n\nA god is a male deity, in contrast with a goddess, a female deity. While the term \"goddess\" specifically refers to a female deity, the plural \"gods\" can be applied to deities collectively, regardless of gender. The Greek and Roman pantheons were ruled by Zeus, and Jupiter.\n\n"}
{"id": "1813171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813171", "title": "Carmine Coppola", "text": "Carmine Coppola\n\nCarmine Valentino Coppola (; June 11, 1910 – April 26, 1991) was an American composer, flautist, pianist, and songwriter who contributed original music to \"The Godfather\", \"The Godfather Part II\", \"Apocalypse Now\", \"The Outsiders\", and \"The Godfather Part III\", all directed by his son Francis Ford Coppola. In the course of his career, he won both Academy Award for Best Original Score and Golden Globe Award for Best Original Score, with BAFTA Award and Grammy Award nominations.\n\nCoppola was born in New York City, the son of Maria (née Zasa) and Agostino Coppola, who came to the United States from Bernalda, Basilicata. His brother was opera conductor and composer Anton Coppola. He was the father of August Coppola, Francis Ford Coppola, and Talia Shire, and grandfather of Nicolas Cage, Sofia Coppola, Roman Coppola, Jason Schwartzman and Robert Schwartzman.\n\nHis wife, Italia, died in 2004 in Los Angeles. Coppola died in Northridge, California at the age of 80. Both Coppola and his wife are buried at San Fernando Mission Cemetery.\n\nCoppola played the flute. He studied at Juilliard, later at the Manhattan School of Music and privately with Joseph Schillinger. During the 1940s, Coppola worked under Arturo Toscanini with the NBC Symphony Orchestra. Then in 1951, Coppola left the Orchestra to pursue his dream of composing music. During that time he mostly worked as an orchestra conductor on Broadway and elsewhere, working with his son, filmmaker Francis Ford Coppola, on additional music for his \"Finian's Rainbow\".\n\nCarmine contributed to the music performed in the wedding scene in \"The Godfather\" (1972). Later, his son called on him to compose additional music for the score of \"The Godfather Part II\" (1974), in which he and his father received an in-movie tribute with the characters Agostino and Carmine Coppola, who appear in a deleted scene from the young Vito Corleone flashback segments. Principal score composer Nino Rota and Carmine together won Oscars for Best Score for the film. He also composed most of the score for \"The Godfather Part III\" (1990). He made cameo appearances in all three \"Godfather\" films as a conductor.\n\nCarmine and Francis together scored \"Apocalypse Now\" (1979), for which they won a Golden Globe Award for best original score. He also composed a three-and-a-half-hour score for Francis' 1981 reconstruction of Abel Gance's 1927 epic \"Napoléon\". Carmine composed the music for \"The Black Stallion\" (1979), on which Francis was executive producer, and four other films directed by his son in the 1980s. In his audio commentary on \"The Godfather Part III\" DVD, Francis said that his father missed a cue during the shooting of that film's opening wedding reception—something he never did in his prime. At that point, Francis realized that his father had little time left. As it turned out, Carmine died less than four months after \"Part III\" premiered, of a stroke. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1813173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813173", "title": "Ex nihilo", "text": "Ex nihilo\n\n\"Ex nihilo nihil fit\" means that nothing comes from nothing.\nIn ancient creation myths the universe is formed from eternal formless matter, namely the dark and still primordial ocean of chaos. In Sumerian myth this cosmic ocean is personified as the goddess Nammu \"who gave birth to heaven and earth\" and had existed forever; in the Babylonian creation epic Enuma Elish pre-existent chaos is made up of fresh-water Apsu and salt-water Tiamat, and from Tiamat the god Marduk created Heaven and Earth; in Egyptian creation myths a pre-existent watery chaos personified as the god Nun and associated with darkness, gave birth to the primeval hill (or in some versions a primeval lotus flower, or in others a celestial cow); and in Greek traditions the ultimate origin of the universe, depending on the source, is sometimes Okeanos (a river that circles the Earth), Night, or water. \n\nTo these can be added the account of the Book of Genesis, which opens with God separating and restraining the waters, not creating the waters themselves out of nothing. The Hebrew sentence which opens Genesis, \"Bereshit bara Elohim et hashamayim ve'et ha'aretz\", can be translated into English in at least three ways:\n\nIt has been known since the Middle Ages that on strictly linguistic and exegetical grounds option 1 is not the preferred translation. Our society sees the origin of matter as a question of crucial importance, but for ancient cultures this was not the case, and the authors of Genesis wrote of creation they were concerned with God bringing the cosmos into operation by assigning roles and functions. This was still the situation in the early 2nd century CE, but by that time Christian scholars were beginning to see a tension between the idea of world-formation and the omnipotence of God, and by the beginning of the 3rd century the tension was resolved, world-formation was overcome, and creation \"ex nihilo\" had become a fundamental tenet of Christian theology.\n\n\"Creatio ex nihilo\", in contrast to \"ex nihilo nihil fit\", is the idea that matter is not eternal but was created by God at the initial cosmic moment. The concept is sometimes claimed to be present in a 2nd century BCE Jewish work called Second Maccabees, or in the 1st century CE Jewish philosopher Philo of Alexandria, but it seems to have originated around 200 CE in disputes between Christians, gnostics, and neo-Platonists, and by the 3rd century creation \"ex nihilo\" had become a fundamental tenet of Christian theology.\n\nMost modern biblical scholars are aware that scripture does not support \"ex nihilo\" creation, and consequently find other reasons for continuing to hold it. Some argue that it is indeed implied in scripture, even if never actually stated; others that it gains validity from having been held by so many for so long; and others find support in modern cosmological theories surrounding the Big Bang. Some examine alternatives to \"creatio ex nihilo\", such as the idea that God created from his own self or from Christ, but this seems to imply that the world is more or less identical with God; or that God created from pre-existent matter, which at least has biblical support, but this implies that the world does not depend on God for its existence.\n\nA major argument for \"creatio ex nihilo\", the cosmological argument, states in summary:\n\nAn expansion of the first cause argument is the Kalam cosmological argument, which also requires \"creatio ex nihilo\":\n\nIn \"The Book of the Articles of Faith and Doctrines of Dogma\" (\"Kitāb al-Amānāt wa l-Iʿtiqādāt\", \"Emunoth ve-Deoth\", completed 933) written by Saadia Gaon (c. 882−942) the metaphysical problems of the creation of the world and the unity of the Creator are discussed. In this book, Saadia Gaon gives four proofs for the doctrine of the creation of the world \"ex nihilo\" (\"yesh me-ayin\").\n\nTo harmonize the biblical statement of the creation \"ex nihilo\" with the doctrine of the primordial elements, the \"Sefer Yetzirah\" assumes a double creation, one ideal and the other real.\nIn introducing \"Sefer Yetzirah's\" theory of creation Saadia Gaon makes a distinction between the Biblical account of creation \"ex nihilo\", in which no process of creation is described, and \"matter formed by speech\" as described in \"Sefer Yetzirah\". The cosmogony of \"Sefer Yetzirah\" is even omitted from the discussion of creation in his magnum opus \"Emunoth ve-Deoth\".\n\nIslam shares with Christianity and Judaism the concept that God is both First Cause and absolute creator; he did not create the world from pre-existing matter, and al-Ghazali condemned those philosophers who supposed the world to be eternal, for this would run counter to God's role as its creator and First Cause.\n\nIn theology, \"ex nihilo\" creation states that there was a beginning to the universe (including therefore, to each person's existence), and anything that has a beginning has a cause. This idea of a \"required beginning\" appears to contradict the proposed creator who existed \"without a beginning\". In other words, people are considered to be contingent beings, and their existence depends upon a non-contingent being. However, if non-contingency is possible, then there is no basis for arguing that contingency is required for existence, nor can it be logically concluded that the number of non-contingent beings or non-contingent things is limited to one single substance or one single Being.\n\nDavid Ray Griffin expressed his thoughts on this as follows: \"No special philosophical problems are raised by this view: If it is intelligible to hold that the existence of God requires no explanation, since something must exist necessarily and \"of itself,\" then it is not unintelligible to hold that that which exists necessarily is God \"and\" a realm of non-divine actualities.\"\n\nBruce K. Waltke wrote an extensive Biblical study of creation theology in which he argues for creation from chaos rather than from nothing - based on the Hebrew Torah and the New Testament texts. The Western Conservative Baptist Seminary published this work in 1974 and again in 1981. On a historical basis, many scholars agree that the doctrine of \"creatio ex nihilo\" was not the original intent of the Biblical authors, but instead a change in the \"interpretation\" of the texts that began to evolve in the mid-second century AD in the atmosphere of Hellenistic philosophy. The idea solidified around 200AD in arguments and in response to the Gnostics, Stoics, and Middle Platonists.\n\nThomas Jay Oord, a Christian philosopher and theologian, argues that Christians should abandon the doctrine of creation \"ex nihilo\". Oord points to the work of biblical scholars such as Jon D. Levenson, who points out that the doctrine of \"creatio ex nihilo\" does not appear in Genesis. Oord speculates that God created our particular universe billions of years ago from primordial chaos. This chaos, however, did not predate God, for God would have created the chaotic elements as well. Oord suggests that God can create all things without creating from absolute nothingness.\n\nOord offers nine objections to \"creatio ex nihilo\":\n\nProcess theologians argue that humans have always related a God to some \"world\" or another. They also claim that rejecting \"creatio ex nihilo\" provides the opportunity to affirm that God has everlastingly created and related with some realm of non-divine actualities or another (compare continuous creation). According to this alternative God-world theory, no non-divine thing exists without the creative activity of God, and nothing can terminate God's necessary existence.\n\nSome non-trinitarian Christian churches do not teach the \"ex nihilo\" doctrine:\n\nThe Vedanta schools of Hinduism reject the concept of creation \"ex nihilo\" for several reasons, for example:\n\nThe \"Bhagavad Gita\" (BG) states the eternality of matter and its transformability clearly and succinctly: \"Material nature and the living entities should be understood to be beginningless. Their transformations and the modes of matter are products of material nature.\" The opening words of Krishna in BG2.12-13 also imply this, as do the doctrines referred to in BG16.8 as explained by the commentator Vadiraja Tirtha.\n\nMost philosophical schools in Hinduism maintain that material creation started with some minute particle (or seed) which had to be co-eternal or a part of ultimate reality (Brahman). This minute starting point is also the point into which all creation contracts at the end of each cycle. This concept varies between various traditions, such as the Vishishtadvaita tradition (which asserts that the Universe forms a part of God, created from some aspect of His divinity) and Tamil Shaiva Siddhanta traditions (which state that the minute initial particle (shuddha Maya) has always existed and was never created).\n\nCreation \"ex nihilo\" is essentially a metaphysical concept, a biblically-based theistic answer to cosomogenesis (the question of how the universe comes to exist): the Big Bang theory, by contrast, offers no explanation of cosmic existence but only a description of the first few moments of that existence.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1813180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813180", "title": "St. Patrick's High School (Halifax)", "text": "St. Patrick's High School (Halifax)\n\nSt. Patrick's High School (St. Pat's) was a non-denominational school centrally located on Quinpool Road in Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada. Historically a Roman Catholic public school, St. Pat's opened in 1954 less than one block from its rival non-denominational public school, Queen Elizabeth High (QEH). St. Patrick's closed in 2007, merging with QEH to form Citadel High School. The school building was demolished in 2015.\n\nThe Roman Catholics of St. Patrick's Parish petitioned the government in 1846 for aid in educating their children, since most parents could not afford to pay school fees. However, free education did not come to Nova Scotia until the 1865 passage of the Nova Scotia Education Act. Classes for Catholics were subsequently established in the basement of St. Patrick's Church.\n\nConditions in the basement were poor and a dedicated Saint Patrick's School opened on Lockman Street (now part of Barrington Street) in 1872. It contained ten classrooms supporting about 786 pupils. The high school was opened in the same overcrowded building in 1884, in response to an amendment of the Education Act that provided for high school education. The high school was moved to the Worrall Building, at the corner of Barrington Street and Proctor's Lane, in 1886.\n\nThe Saint Patrick's Girls' School opened in 1888 nearby on Brunswick Street to help relieve overcrowding. It was a two-storey brick building with eleven classrooms, and had the highest enrolment in the province, at 1,033 students. The Lockman Street school suffered a serious fire in 1898. The girls' school was dangerously overcrowded, and a new Saint Patrick's Girls' High School opened on Brunswick Street in 1907.\n\nThe Saint Patrick's Boys' School on Lockman Street was condemned by the fire marshall in 1916. Land was obtained to build a new school, but construction was delayed by the outbreak of World War I. The Halifax Explosion of December 1917 heavily damaged all three Saint Patrick's Schools. The buildings were subsequently repaired at a cost of $44,641. A new fireproof Boys' School opened in 1921 on Brunswick Street, and the original Saint Patrick's School was turned into a spice factory. Enrolment rose steadily during the early 20th century and various building extensions and annex buildings were used to accommodate the student population.\n\nIn 1944, the \"Post War Planning Committee\" of the school board placed a high priority on building a Roman Catholic high school in the city. The board moved to obtain the property of the old Saint Mary's College at Quinpool Road and Windsor Street, after Saint Mary's moved to Robie Street. The high school students moved to the former Saint Mary's buildings while the new high school building was constructed on the former football field next door. Graduation ceremonies were temporarily held in the auditorium of nearby Queen Elizabeth High School.\n\nThe new Saint Patrick's High School opened in September 1954 and a foundation stone was unveiled by Premier Harold Connolly. At the time of opening, it was hailed in the \"Halifax Mail-Star\" as a \"model high school\" and in a national magazine as one of \"the most modern and best-equipped schools\" in the country, and was the largest school in the country. The boys' and girls' high schools moved from their outdated premises, on Windsor Street and Brunswick Street respectively, into the modern new school. The library collection remained temporarily in the old Saint Mary's College building, and the new library did not open until 1955.\n\nThe school building was designed by Downie, Baker and Ahern Architects-Engineers in a modernist style. The school auditorium had a full stage and seating for 1,060. The school was a strict Catholic institution in the early years, with boys and girls segregated and directed by separate principals. On 29 February 1968 the city purchased the former Saint Mary's College building, which was being rented out by the Maritime Conservatory of Music, for expansion of Saint Patrick's. The Saint Mary's building was demolished and Saint Patrick's was expanded to the rear with an addition that opened in 1969.\n\nThe 1992 documentary film \"Speak It! From the Heart of Black Nova Scotia\", produced by the National Film Board and directed by Halifax filmmaker Sylvia Hamilton, profiled a group of black students at St. Patrick's as they explored their heritage and tried to build self-esteem. The students in the film discuss racism in the community and confront hateful graffiti in the school washrooms. They form a cultural awareness group and attend a provincial conference to promote leadership in the black community. The film was critically acclaimed and won several awards.\n\nSt. Pat's was traditionally known for its football, basketball, and soccer teams, musicals and music programs, and debating club. In 2005-06, St. Pat's celebrated their sole provincial sports victory in Girls' Curling. This was the first provincial Girls' Curling win for St. Pat's since 1976, when Colleen Jones played skip for the team. Also, the Girls Basketball team won the 2005/06, provincial girls championship. The St. Pat's football team won a provincial championship in 2001. first title in 30 years. In January 2007, St. Pat's won the Dalhousie Debating Tournament.\n\nWhile the school once had a population of 2,300 students, at which time students enjoying free periods would sometimes be forced onto the street to make room for lessons, it fell dramatically in population to less than 400 housed in an oversized building of . St. Pat's High School was merged with QEH, beginning September 2007, to form Citadel High School, at the former site of the Halifax Nova Scotia Community College campus.\n\nIn preparation for the merge of QEH and St. Pat's into Citadel High School, many of the music programs were combined to include members from both schools. These programs include the string orchestra, concert band, and Schola/Jazz chamber choir.\n\nAfter the high school closed, the St. Patrick's building was renamed Quinpool Education Centre, housing the Halifax All-City Music Centre and other educational and community programs. The underused building cost $400,000 a year to run at this time, and was called a \"poster child for wasteful inaction by local government\" by the \"Chronicle Herald\" in July 2014. The building was vacated in December 2013 and turned over to the city in preparation for demolition.\n\nOn early March 27, 2015, a 500 square foot area of the roof of the 1960s section of the school building collapsed under the weight of snow and ice. The precast concrete exterior walls buckled, prompting the city to demolish a section of the walls to prevent another collapse. The tender to demolish the school was scheduled to close on April 7, but was extended so bidders could address any issues caused by the roof collapse.\n\nDemolition of the school began in August 2015. It was complicated by the surprise discovery of asbestos that was not detected through pre-demolition testing.\n\nIn 2006, St. Pat's Vice Principal Wade Smith, an African-Canadian, stirred up some controversy with his suggestion to establish an Africentric school in Nova Scotia. While the comment was initially an off-the-cuff remark, it was widely debated and generated strong feelings from both sides of the argument. His remark was made under questioning in an interview with CBC News, and reported on by other media outlets. To some, such a move would represent a return to segregation and the Jim Crow laws of the southern United States. Smith has indicated that this would not be the intent, saying that such a school would not exclude other races or ethnicities, but would simply focus on African-Canadian studies. He suggested that a change is needed because the current system is failing black students, many of whom receive low grades and are at increased risk of dropping out of school. He believed that an environment designed to cater to the special needs of African-Canadians would improve these results. Both the Halifax Regional School Board and the Department of Education very quickly dismissed the concept.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1813186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813186", "title": "Nurse education", "text": "Nurse education\n\nNurse education consists of the theoretical and practical training provided to nurses with the purpose to prepare them for their duties as nursing care professionals. This education is provided to nursing students by experienced nurses and other medical professionals who have qualified or experienced for educational tasks. Most countries offer nurse education courses that can be relevant to general nursing or to specialized areas including mental health nursing, pediatric nursing and post-operatory nursing. Courses leading to autonomous registration as a nurse typically last four years. Nurse education also provides post-qualification courses in specialist subjects within nursing.\n\nDuring past decades, the changes in education have replaced the more practically focused, but often ritualistic, training structure of conventional preparation. Nurse education integrates today a broader awareness of other disciplines allied to medicine, often involving inter-professional education, and the utilization of research when making clinical and managerial decisions. Orthodox training can be argued to have offered a more intense practical skills base, but emphasized the handmaiden relationship with the physician. This is now outmoded, and the impact of nurse education is to develop a confident, inquiring graduate who contributes to the care team as an equal. In some countries, not all qualification courses have graduate status.\n\nTraditionally, from the times prior to Florence Nightingale, nursing was seen as an apprenticeship, often undertaken in religious institutes such as convents by young women, although there has always been a proportion of male nurses, especially in mental health services. In 1860 Nightingale set up the first nurse training school at St Thomas' Hospital, London. Nightingale's curriculum was largely based around nursing practice, with instruction focused upon the need for hygiene and task competence. Her methods are reflected in her \"Notes on Nursing\" (1898).\n\nSome other nurses at that time, notably Ethel Gordon Fenwick, were in favor of formalized nursing registration and curricula that were formally based in higher education and not within the confines of hospitals.\n\nNurse education in the United States is conducted within university schools, although it is unclear who offered the first degree level program. So far as known Yale School of Nursing became the first autonomous school of nursing in the United States in 1923.\n\nIn November 1955, a World Health Organization (WHO) study group on the education of nurses met in Brussels and made several recommendations, including that \"At least one experimental school of nursing be set up in each country.\" In the UK, the first department of Nursing Studies at the University of Edinburgh was established in 1956, with a five-year integrated degree programme introduced in 1960. Several other universities across the UK during the 1960s. In 1974 La Trobe University commenced the very first nursing course in Australia.\n\nThere are multiple entry levels into nursing. This has led to confusion for the public, as well as other healthcare professionals. The earliest schools of nursing offered a Diploma in Nursing and not an actual academic degree. Community colleges began offering an Associate of Science in Nursing degree, and some diploma programs switched to this model. Universities then began to offer Bachelor of Science in Nursing and Bachelor of Nursing degrees, followed by Master of Science in Nursing degrees, and Doctor of Nursing Practice degrees. A Doctor of Philosophy Degree in Nursing (PhD) is also available, although this degree tends to focuses more on research than hands-on patient care.\n\nPre-registration nurse training and education in the UK is now via a bachelor's degree (a UK Level 6 qualification) following the phasing-out of the Diploma of Higher Education (a UK Level 5 qualification) in Nursing which was previously offered at universities and colleges.\n\nTo become a student nurse, individuals must apply through the University and Colleges Admissions Service (commonly referred to as \"UCAS\") to their nursing degree choices, choosing from one of the four nursing fields: Adult, Children, Mental Health and Learning Disabilities. Requirements for entry to a pre-reg nursing degree are usually five GCSEs (including mathematics, English language and at least one science subject) at Grade C or above, along with three A-Level subjects (preferably but not essentially science-based) at Grade C or above, although the majority of universities will seek higher grades due to the competition for places. Key Skills courses are generally no-longer accepted as an alternative to GCSEs, however science or healthcare-based BTEC Level 3 Extended Diplomas and Access courses are most oftem accepted in lieu of A-Level qualifications.\n\nIf successful following interview, the student will study a \"core\" first year, learning basic nursing competencies essential to all four of the above fields. It is then from second year and onwards that the degree will begin to focus on the student's chosen field. Following completion of the degree, the applicant will be registered with the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) as a Registered Nurse in their field of practice, using the post-nominal RNA, RNC, RNMH or RNLD as appropriate to their degree qualification.\n\nThere are two specific pathways individuals can take if they wish to become a nurse in Western Australia (WA). They can decide to study at university to become a registered nurse (RN), alternatively they can study at Technical and Further Education (TAFE) to become an enrolled nurse (EN). Both pathways require a variety of entry requirements whether it be passing year 12 Maths, English and Human Biology along with receiving a specific Australian Tertiary Admission Rank (ATAR) also known as a score for university or providing prior learning experiences and legal clearances for TAFE. Either way individuals need to be aware these requirements can vary year to year and that is why they are recommended to contact each university or institute to find out entry requirements.\n\nIn WA there are four universities where individuals can choose to attend if they are wanting to complete a nursing degree.\n\nEdith Cowan University (ECU) is located at Joondalup and South West (Bunbury) campus. ECU offers the Bachelor of Science (Nursing) degree which individuals can choose to study for three years full time or six years part time both on campus.\n\nCurtin University is located in Bently, WA. This university offers an Undergraduate Nursing degree additionally referred to as Bachelor of Science (Nursing). This degree runs on campus for three and a half years full time however, students can request to study this degree part time.\n\nMurdoch University also offers offer a Bachelor of Nursing degree with a three year completion date. The university offers this degree at Peel or South Street campus in Murdoch, WA.\n\nThe final university that offers a nursing degree in WA is located throughout Fremantle and is known as the University of Notre Dame. This university offer a Bachelor of Nursing degree which will take three years to achieve.\n\nWhen students graduate from one of the four universities listed above they will be fully qualified as an RN and have a wide variety of job opportunities available. However, if individuals discover that university is not for them or can not gain entry into university, it is not the end of the world because there are alternative pathways available.\n\nAttending TAFE is an alternative career pathway for individuals that still wish to pursue this profession. There are six institutes spread across WA which offer a Diploma of Nursing (Enrolled-Division 2 Nursing). These institutes include C.Y.O’Connor Institute, Great Southern Institute of Technology, Goldfields Institute of Technology, Pilbara Institute, South West Institute of Technology and West Coast Institute of Training. All institutes in WA roughly take eighteen months to complete the diploma when studying full time. Once a student successfully graduates from the Diploma of Nursing (Enrolled-Division 2 Nursing) they will be qualified as an EN.\n\nOverall, there are alternative pathways available however an RN holds higher qualifications than an EN. There are key similarities of an RN and an EN as they both desire to fulfil their dreams of becoming a nurse and they must be registered with the Nursing and Midwifery Board of Australia, by complying with the Board’s registration standards.\n\nNursing education includes instruction in topic areas. These are nursing assessment, nursing diagnosis, and nursing care planning. \nIn the United States, nursing students learn through traditional classroom and lab instruction. Nursing education also involves clinical rotations and simulation, throughout their schooling, to develop care planning and clinical reasoning. At the end of schooling, nursing students in the US and Canada, must take and pass the NCLEX, National Council of Licensure Examination to practice.\n\nThere are a variety of areas where nurses can specialise in and they may decide they want to be qualified in one or several specialities over the course of their career. Here are an array of some of the nursing specialty fields available:\n\nAmong nurse educators, arguments continue about the ideal balance of practical preparation and the need to educate the future practitioner to manage healthcare and to have a broader view of the practice. To meet both requirements, nurse education aims to develop a lifelong learner who can adapt effectively to changes in both the theory and practice of nursing.\n\nWhile it is clear that the use of Medical simulation in nursing education is important for improving practice, patient safety, and interprofessional team skills, the balance of simulation to clinical time remains in the hands of the institutions.\n\n"}
{"id": "1813187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813187", "title": "Lake of the Ozarks", "text": "Lake of the Ozarks\n\nLake of the Ozarks is a reservoir created by impounding the Osage River in the northern part of the Ozarks in central Missouri. Parts of three smaller tributaries to the Osage are included in the impoundment: the Niangua River, Grandglaize Creek, and Gravois Creek. The lake has a surface area of and of shoreline. The main channel of the Osage Arm stretches from end to end. The total drainage area is over . The lake's serpentine shape has earned it the nickname \"Puff The Magic Dragon\", which has in turn inspired the names of local institutions such as The Magic Dragon Street Meet.\n\nA hydroelectric power plant on the Osage River was first pursued by Kansas City developer Ralph Street in 1912. He put together the initial funding and began building roads, railroads, and infrastructure necessary to begin construction of a dam, with a plan to impound a much smaller lake. In the mid-1920s, Street's funding dried up, and he abandoned the effort.\n\nThe lake was created by the construction of the long Bagnell Dam by the Union Electric Company of St. Louis, Missouri. The principal engineering firm was Stone and Webster. Construction began August 8, 1929, was completed in April 1931 and reached spillway elevation on May 20, 1931. During construction, the lake was referred to as Osage Reservoir or Lake Osage. The Missouri General Assembly officially named it Lake Benton after Senator Thomas Hart Benton. None of the names stuck, as it was popularly referred to by its location at the northern edge of the Ozarks. The electric generating station, however, is still referred to by the utility company as the \"Osage Hydroelectric Plant.\" While some sources indicate that more than 20 towns, villages and settlements were permanently flooded to create the lake, subsequent research indicates that the actual number was closer to eight, while several other sites had been previously abandoned, were relocated to make way for the lake, or were on high enough ground that the creation of the lake did not affect them.\n\nAt the time of construction, the Lake of the Ozarks was the largest man-made lake in the United States and one of the largest in the world. It was created to provide hydroelectric power for customers of Union Electric, but it quickly became a significant tourist destination. Most of its shoreline is privately owned, unlike many flood-control lakes in the region that were constructed by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. The relatively stable surface elevation has created conditions suitable for private development within a few feet of the shoreline. There are over 70,000 homes along the lake, many of which are vacation homes. The lake is now a major resort area, and more than 5 million people visit annually.\n\nIn 2011, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) renewed the lease for the power plant operated by Ameren Missouri. In the process, FERC determined that numerous homes and structures were encroaching on utility land in violation of federal regulations. According to the Boston \"Globe\", this issue \"has triggered panic in the area's lakefront communities and led to a growing battle among regulators, a utility company, land attorneys, and the state's congressional delegation.\"\nThe Lake of the Ozarks is located within the Ozark Mountains with the dam (Bagnell Dam) lying at an elevation of . It lies in central Missouri on the Salem Plateau of the Ozarks. The lake extends across four Missouri counties, from Benton County in the west through Camden and Morgan counties to Miller County in the east.\n\nThe reservoir is impounded at its northeastern end by Bagnell Dam, and the Osage River is both its primary inflow and outflow. Long and winding in shape, the lake consists of the main, Osage River channel as well as several arms, each fed by a different tributary. The southwestern arm is fed by the Niangua and Little Niangua rivers, the southeastern arm by Grandglaize Creek, and the northern arm by several streams including Gravois, Indian, and Little Gravois creeks. Many smaller tributaries also drain into the lake, creating numerous small coves and indentations in its shore. As a result, the lake has approximately of shoreline.\n\nU.S. Route 54 runs east-west across the reservoir's southwestern arm and then generally northeast-southwest along its eastern shoreline, crossing the southeastern arm at Osage Beach. Missouri Route 5 runs generally north-south along the lake's western shoreline, crossing the main channel at Hurricane Deck. Missouri Route 7 runs generally northwest-southeast to the lake's southwest, crossing the southwestern arm. Missouri Route 134 runs southeast from U.S. 54 north of Osage Beach to its southern terminus in Lake of the Ozarks State Park. In addition, a network of supplemental state routes provides access to various points along the lake shore.\n\nNumerous settlements are located near or on the Lake of the Ozarks. With a population of 4,570, the largest city is Osage Beach which sits where the lake's southeastern arm joins the main channel. The second largest is the city of Camdenton, located a few miles east of the southwestern arm. Lake Ozark lies immediately north of Osage Beach and just south of Bagnell Dam. Other, smaller communities along or near the lake include (from east to west): Kaiser, Lakeside, Linn Creek, Village of Four Seasons, Rocky Mount, Sunrise Beach, Hurricane Deck, Gravois Mills, Laurie, and Lakeview Heights.\n\nThe Lake of the Ozarks has a storage capacity of approximately . When filled to that volume, it has a surface elevation of and occupies a surface area of approximately . The lake rarely varies in surface elevation by more than . As it was constructed for power generation, not flood control, the lake has only limited flood control capacity.\n\nDue to its large volume and surface area, various sources identify the Lake of the Ozarks as either the largest reservoir in Missouri or the second-largest after Truman Reservoir.\n\nIn November 2018 the Lake Ozark Fire District acquired a $500,000 fireboat.\n\nBridges formerly on the lake include the following:\n\nBagnell Dam is operated and maintained by Ameren Missouri, the successor of Union Electric, under the authority of a permit issued by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. Ameren Missouri is also responsible for managing both the shoreline and water levels of the lake. All land surrounding the lake that is within the project boundary defined by the FERC is under the company's jurisdiction. Any improvements to the shoreline including docks, seawalls, and other structures require permission from Ameren Missouri prior to construction.\n\nDuring the process of land acquisition for the lake during the 1920s, of land were set aside for a national park along the Grand Glaize Arm of the lake. In 1946, this land was acquired by the State of Missouri for Lake of the Ozarks State Park, the largest State Park in Missouri. Another state park on the shores of the lake is Ha Ha Tonka State Park on the Niangua Arm of the lake. \n\nLake of the Ozarks State Park is home to Party Cove, a gathering spot that a New York \"Times\" writer called the \"oldest established permanent floating bacchanal in the country.\" The Missouri State Water Patrol has estimated that the cove attracts up to 3,000 boats during the Fourth of July weekend.\n\nDuring the 2020 COVID-19 pandemic the Lake of the Ozarks gained notoriety when on Memorial Day (May 25, 2020) a large crowd congregated at the lake.\n\n\"AquaPolooza\" takes place each July. Attendees gather on rafts and inflatable tubes. Live music is usually played from noon to 5pm as boaters link up their boats to one another.\n\nAt the end of every summer, the Lake of the Ozarks holds an event called \"The Shootout\". It is the biggest powerboat racing event of the year at the lake, and runs over a three-mile course.\n\n"}
{"id": "1813193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813193", "title": "Maximum entropy probability distribution", "text": "Maximum entropy probability distribution\n\nIn statistics and information theory, a maximum entropy probability distribution has entropy that is at least as great as that of all other members of a specified class of probability distributions. According to the principle of maximum entropy, if nothing is known about a distribution except that it belongs to a certain class (usually defined in terms of specified properties or measures), then the distribution with the largest entropy should be chosen as the least-informative default. The motivation is twofold: first, maximizing entropy minimizes the amount of prior information built into the distribution; second, many physical systems tend to move towards maximal entropy configurations over time.\n\nIf \"X\" is a discrete random variable with distribution given by\nthen the entropy of \"X\" is defined as\n\nIf \"X\" is a continuous random variable with probability density \"p\"(\"x\"), then the differential entropy of \"X\" is defined as\n\nThe quantity is understood to be zero whenever .\n\nThis is a special case of more general forms described in the articles Entropy (information theory), Principle of maximum entropy, and differential entropy. In connection with maximum entropy distributions, this is the only one needed, because maximizing formula_4 will also maximize the more general forms.\n\nThe base of the logarithm is not important as long as the same one is used consistently: change of base merely results in a rescaling of the entropy. Information theorists may prefer to use base 2 in order to express the entropy in bits; mathematicians and physicists will often prefer the natural logarithm, resulting in a unit of nats for the entropy.\n\nThe choice of the measure formula_5 is however crucial in determining the entropy and the resulting maximum entropy distribution, even though the usual recourse to the Lebesgue measure is often defended as \"natural\"\n\nMany statistical distributions of applicable interest are those for which the moments or other measurable quantities are constrained to be constants. The following theorem by Ludwig Boltzmann gives the form of the probability density under these constraints.\n\nSuppose \"S\" is a closed subset of the real numbers R and we choose to specify \"n\" measurable functions \"f\"...,\"f\" and \"n\" numbers \"a\"...,\"a\". We consider the class \"C\" of all real-valued random variables which are supported on \"S\" \n(i.e. whose density function is zero outside of \"S\") and which satisfy \nthe \"n\" moment conditions: \nIf there is a member in \"C\" whose density function is positive everywhere in \"S\", and if there exists a maximal entropy distribution for \"C\", then its probability density \"p\"(\"x\") has the following shape:\nwhere we assume that formula_8. The constant formula_9 and the \"n\" Lagrange multipliers formula_10 solve the constrained optimization problem with formula_11 (this condition ensures that formula_12 integrates to unity):\n\nUsing the Karush–Kuhn–Tucker conditions, it can be shown that the optimization problem has a unique solution, because the objective function in the optimization is concave in formula_14.\n\nNote that if the moment conditions are equalities (instead of inequalities), that is, \nthen the constraint condition formula_16 is dropped, making the optimization over the Lagrange multipliers unconstrained.\n\nSuppose \"S\" = {\"x\",\"x\"...} is a (finite or infinite) discrete subset of the reals and we choose to specify \"n\" functions \"f\"...,\"f\" and \"n\" numbers \"a\"...,\"a\". We consider the class \"C\" of all discrete random variables \"X\" which are supported on \"S\" and which satisfy the \"n\" moment conditions \n\nIf there exists a member of \"C\" which assigns positive probability to all members of \"S\" and if there exists a maximum entropy distribution for \"C\", then this distribution has the following shape:\nwhere we assume that formula_19 and the constants formula_20 solve the constrained optimization problem with formula_11:\nAgain, if the moment conditions are equalities (instead of inequalities), then the constraint condition formula_16 is not present in the optimization.\n\nIn the case of equality constraints, this theorem is proved with the calculus of variations and Lagrange multipliers. The constraints can be written as\n\nWe consider the functional\n\nwhere formula_26 and formula_27 are the Lagrange multipliers. The zeroth constraint ensures the second axiom of probability. The other constraints are that the measurements of the function are given constants up to order formula_28. The entropy attains an extremum when the functional derivative is equal to zero:\n\nIt is an exercise for the reader that this extremum is indeed a maximum. Therefore, the maximum entropy probability distribution in this case must be of the form (formula_30)\n\nThe proof of the discrete version is essentially the same.\n\nSuppose formula_32, formula_33 are distributions satisfying the expectation-constraints. Letting formula_34 and considering the distribution formula_35 it is clear that this distribution satisfies the expectation-constraints and furthermore has as support formula_36. From basic facts about entropy, it holds that formula_37. Taking limits formula_38 and formula_39 respectively yields formula_40.\n\nIt follows that a distribution satisfying the expectation-constraints and maximising entropy must necessarily have full support — \"i. e.\" the distribution is almost everywhere positive. It follows that the maximising distribution must be an internal point in the space of distributions satisfying the expectation-constraints, that is, it must be a local extreme. Thus it suffices to show that the local extreme is unique, in order to show both that the entropy-maximising distribution is unique (and this also shows that the local extreme is the global maximum).\n\nSuppose formula_41 are local extremes. Reformulating the above computations these are characterised by parameters formula_42 via formula_43 and similarly for formula_33, where formula_45. We now note a series of identities: Via the satisfaction of the expectation-constraints and utilising gradients/directional derivatives, one has formula_46 and similarly for formula_47. Letting formula_48 one obtains:\n\nwhere formula_50 for some formula_51. Computing further one has\n\nwhere formula_53 is similar to the distribution above, only parameterised by formula_54. \"Assuming\" that no non-trivial linear combination of the observables is almost everywhere (a.e.) constant, (which \"e.g.\" holds if the observables are independent and not a.e. constant), it holds that formula_55 has non-zero variance, unless formula_56. By the above equation it is thus clear, that the latter must be the case. Hence formula_57, so the parameters characterising the local extrema formula_41 are identical, which means that the distributions themselves are identical. Thus, the local extreme is unique and by the above discussion, the maximum is unique—provided a local extreme actually exists.\n\nNote that not all classes of distributions contain a maximum entropy distribution. It is possible that a class contain distributions of arbitrarily large entropy (e.g. the class of all continuous distributions on R with mean 0 but arbitrary standard deviation), or that the entropies are bounded above but there is no distribution which attains the maximal entropy. It is also possible that the expected value restrictions for the class \"C\" force the probability distribution to be zero in certain subsets of \"S\". In that case our theorem doesn't apply, but one can work around this by shrinking the set \"S\".\n\nEvery probability distribution is trivially a maximum entropy probability distribution under the constraint that the distribution have its own entropy. To see this, rewrite the density as formula_59 and compare to the expression of the theorem above. By choosing formula_60 to be the measurable function and\n\nto be the constant, formula_62 is the maximum entropy probability distribution under the constraint\n\nNontrivial examples are distributions that are subject to multiple constraints that are different from the assignment of the entropy. These are often found by starting with the same procedure formula_60 and finding that formula_65 can be separated into parts.\n\nA table of examples of maximum entropy distributions is given in Lisman (1972) and Park & Bera (2009)\n\nThe uniform distribution on the interval [\"a\",\"b\"] is the maximum entropy distribution among all continuous distributions which are supported in the interval [\"a\", \"b\"], and thus the probability density is 0 outside of the interval. This uniform density can be related to Laplace's principle of indifference, sometimes called the principle of insufficient reason. More generally, if we're given a subdivision \"a\"=\"a\" < \"a\" < ... < \"a\" = \"b\" of the interval [\"a\",\"b\"] and probabilities \"p\"...,\"p\" which add up to one, then we can consider the class of all continuous distributions such that\nThe density of the maximum entropy distribution for this class is constant on each of the intervals [\"a\",\"a\"). The uniform distribution on the finite set {\"x\"...,\"x\"} (which assigns a probability of 1/\"n\" to each of these values) is the maximum entropy distribution among all discrete distributions supported on this set.\n\nThe exponential distribution, for which the density function is\n\nis the maximum entropy distribution among all continuous distributions supported in [0,∞) that have a specified mean of 1/λ.\n\nThe normal distribution N(μ,σ), for which the density function is\n\nhas maximum entropy among all real-valued distributions supported on (-∞,∞) with a specified variance \"σ\" (a particular moment). Therefore, the assumption of normality imposes the minimal prior structural constraint beyond this moment. (See the differential entropy article for a derivation.)\n\nIn the case of distributions supported on [0,∞), the maximum entropy distribution depends on relationships between the first and second moments. In specific cases, it may be the exponential distribution, or may be another distribution, or may be undefinable.\n\nAmong all the discrete distributions supported on the set {\"x\"...,\"x\"} with a specified mean μ, the maximum entropy distribution has the following shape:\nwhere the positive constants \"C\" and \"r\" can be determined by the requirements that the sum of all the probabilities must be 1 and the expected value must be μ.\n\nFor example, if a large number \"N\" of dice are thrown, and you are told that the sum of all the shown numbers is \"S\". Based on this information alone, what would be a reasonable assumption for the number of dice showing 1, 2, ..., 6? This is an instance of the situation considered above, with {\"x\"...,\"x\"} = {1...,6} and μ = \"S\"/\"N\".\n\nFinally, among all the discrete distributions supported on the infinite set {\"x\",\"x\"...} with mean μ, the maximum entropy distribution has the shape:\nwhere again the constants \"C\" and \"r\" were determined by the requirements that the sum of all the probabilities must be 1 and the expected value must be μ. For example, in the case that \"x = k\", this gives\n\nsuch that respective maximum entropy distribution is the geometric distribution.\n\nFor a continuous random variable formula_72 distributed about the unit circle, the Von Mises distribution maximizes the entropy when the real and imaginary parts of the first circular moment are specified or, equivalently, the circular mean and circular variance are specified.\n\nWhen the mean and variance of the angles formula_72 modulo formula_74 are specified, the wrapped normal distribution maximizes the entropy.\n\nThere exists an upper bound on the entropy of continuous random variables on formula_75 with a specified mean, variance, and skew. However, there is \"no distribution which achieves this upper bound\", because formula_76 is unbounded except when formula_77 (see Cover & Thomas (2006: chapter 12)).\n\nHowever, the maximum entropy is -achievable: a distribution's entropy can be arbitrarily close to the upper bound. Start with a normal distribution of the specified mean and variance. To introduce a positive skew, perturb the normal distribution upward by a small amount at a value many larger than the mean. The skewness, being proportional to the third moment, will be affected more than the lower order moments.\n\nEvery distribution with log-concave density is a maximal entropy distribution with specified mean \"μ\" and Deviation risk measure \"D\".\n\nIn particular, the maximal entropy distribution with specified mean formula_78 and deviation formula_79 is:\n\n\nIn the table below, each listed distribution maximizes the entropy for a particular set of functional constraints listed in the third column, and the constraint that x be included in the support of the probability density, which is listed in the fourth column. Several examples (Bernoulli, geometric, exponential, Laplace, Pareto) listed are trivially true because their associated constraints are equivalent to the assignment of their entropy. They are included anyway because their constraint is related to a common or easily measured quantity. For reference, formula_86 is the gamma function, formula_87 is the digamma function, formula_88 is the beta function, and is the Euler-Mascheroni constant.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1813199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813199", "title": "Arkansas Museum of Discovery", "text": "Arkansas Museum of Discovery\n\nThe Museum of Discovery is located in downtown Little Rock, Arkansas. The museum is housed in a historic building in the River Market District on the Arkansas River. The Clinton Presidential Center is within walking distance.\n\nProlific writer and prohibitionist, Bernie Babcock, established The Arkansas Museum of Natural History and Antiquities in 1927 in response to criticism from H.L. Mencken that Arkansans were \"bumpkins\" who lacked cultural centers. Babcock first opened her museum in a downtown storefront on Main Street. Her museum had several sensational exhibits, such as the supposed head of a Chicago criminal and the King Crowley, now considered the greatest archaeological fake in Arkansas history. Her collection also included taxidermy specimens from other museums, \"primitive art,\" and multicultural dolls. To secure the continued existence of her museum, Babcock gave the museum to the city of Little Rock as a Christmas gift in 1929 and it then moved to city hall. In 1942, the Tower Building of the Little Rock Arsenal was renovated due to the efforts of the Aesthetic Club, Little Rock philanthropist Frederick W. Allsop, and the Works Progress Administration. It would become the new home of The Arkansas Museum of Natural History and Antiquities, and remain there for some fifty-five years. \n\nThe museum continued to grow and acquire more and better artifacts and exhibits. The museum was one of three state organizations to receive a mold of the \"Arkansaurus fridayi\" fossil - \"The Arkansas Dinosaur\" - and also had a statue of it. It became the Museum of Science and Natural History in 1964, and the Arkansas Museum of Science and History in 1983. The increasing professionalism of the staff and museum led to accreditation from the American Alliance of Museums in 1993.\n\nIn 1997/98, the museum became the Museum of Discovery: Arkansas' Museum of Science and History, relocating to the River Market. The Children's Museum of Arkansas, located in Union Station merged with the Museum of Discovery in 2003. In 2008 the Donald W. Reynolds Foundation awarded a $9.2 million grant to the Museum of Discovery in Little Rock for expansion and renovations. These would include three new interactive exhibits and, construction of a new entrance from Clinton Avenue (the entrance was from the lobby of the Museum Center, an office building that has a number of other tenants including the museum).\n\nFollowing renovations, the Museum of Discovery reopened in January 2012 with a new focus of STEM (science, technology, engineering, math) education. All of the exhibits are interactive and the museum features a large live animal collection.\n\nIn 2014, the Museum of Discovery's Visitor Experience Director Kevin Delaney became \"The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon\"'s science expert. Delany makes appearances throughout the year and performs several science demonstrations with Fallon during each appearance.\n\nOn July 4, 2015, the Museum of Discovery debuted a Guinness World Record musical bi-polar tesla coil. The tesla coil – named after its inventor Nikola Tesla, the developer of the alternating current system of electricity used today – is a device that creates high-voltage electricity at a high frequency visible to the eye. The Museum of Discovery’s coil will emit electrical discharges to a variety of songs and will share the record for the world’s largest bi-polar tesla coil with the coil at the Hands On! Regional Museum in Johnson City, Tennessee. The device, which can produce 200,000 volts of electricity, is being built by Goodchild Engineering in Arizona and donated to the Museum of Discovery by Richard Mathias, founder and president of Tesla Coil Museum Exhibit Program, LLC, through a matching grant program from the General Electric Foundation.\n\nIn April 2019, the Museum of Discovery partnered with a local silicone manufacturer to create a brightly colored hands-on display to benefit children in Arkansas on the autism spectrum. The traveling playground is set to launch in the summer of 2019. \n\n"}
{"id": "1813200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813200", "title": "Wilhelmina Cooper", "text": "Wilhelmina Cooper\n\nWilhelmina Gertrud Frieda Cooper (née. Behmenburg, 1 May 1939 – 1 March 1980) was a Dutch-American model who began with Ford Models, and at the peak of her success, founded her own agency, Wilhelmina Models, in New York City in 1967.\n\nWilhelmina Gertrud Frieda Behmenburg was born on 1 May 1939 in Culemborg, the daughter of Wilhelm Robert Karl Behmenburg (1901–1977), who was a butcher, and Klasina van der Straten (1909–1992). Some sources list her name as being Gertrude Wilhelmina Behmenburg or Willy Gertruida Frieda Behmenburg.\n\nShe had a younger brother, Walter Günther Behmenburg (1941–1945), who died in a car accident at 3 years old. The family moved to Utrecht in 1942, where they lived until 1944. After World War II, they moved to Oldenburg, Germany. \n\nThe family immigrated to Chicago, Illinois, in 1954. Wilhelmina became one of the most famous models of the 1950s and 1960s, and during her career, she appeared on the cover of 255 magazines. She also modeled in Europe, and in France, she worked for both Coco Chanel and Christian Dior. She also holds the record for most covers on American \"Vogue\", appearing 27 or 28 times.\n\nAccording to her obituary in \"Time\":\n\nDuring her cover-girl days, Wilhelmina boasted that she was \"one of the few high-fashion models built like a woman.\" And she was. With her 5 ft. 11 in., 38-24-36 frame, doe eyes, delicate cheekbones, and mane of high-piled dark hair, she epitomized the classical, aristocratic look that she helped to make the style standard of the 1950s and '60s...\nOn 5 February 1965, she married Victor Bruce Cooper, former executive producer of \"The Tonight Show Starring Johnny Carson\". They had two children together; Melissa Wilhelmina Cooper and Jason S. Cooper.\n\nIn 1967, they founded Wilhelmina Models, which became the other leading model agency alongside Ford Models, years before Elite Model Management and other agencies began.\n\nOn 1 March 1980, Cooper died of lung cancer at the age of 40 in Greenwich Hospital, Greenwich, Connecticut.\n\nCooper was portrayed by Faye Dunaway in the 1998 movie \"Gia\", which tells the story of Gia Carangi, a model who was discovered by Cooper and later died of AIDS.\n\nIn American sitcom \"Ugly Betty\", adapted from Colombian telenovela \"Betty La Fea\", the antagonist Wilhelmina Slater (Vanessa L. Williams) is named as a tribute to Cooper. Her nickname, Willy, and the fact that she became a successful businesswoman in fashion after being a model were attached directly to the character.\n\n"}
{"id": "1813203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813203", "title": "Campeonato Amapaense", "text": "Campeonato Amapaense\n\nThe Campeonato Amapaense is the football league of the state of Amapá, Brazil.\n\nFirst Stage\n\nSecond Stage\n\nThird stage (if necessary)\n\nIf a team wins both stages (first and second) it is crowned the champion. If not, the third stage is disputed, and the winner is crowned the champion.\n\nThe two teams last placed overall are relegated.\n\nAs in any other Brazilian soccer championship, the format can change every year.\n\nFirst Division 2006\n\n\nOthers\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1813204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813204", "title": "Electric Doom Synthesis", "text": "Electric Doom Synthesis\n\nElectric Doom Synthesis is Beherit's third studio album and second dark ambient album. It features ritualistic music, pitchshifted spoken word, and occasional guitars, all much in the spirit of black metal.\n\nAll songs written and performed by Marko Laiho.\n\n"}
{"id": "1813220", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813220", "title": "Grace Toronto Church", "text": "Grace Toronto Church\n\nGrace Toronto Church is a Presbyterian Church in America congregation worshipping in the historic St. Andrews Church building in Toronto, Ontario, Canada.\n\nThe church was originally built as Old St. Andrew's Presbyterian Church. St. Andrew's Church, (Church of Scotland) had dated back to 1830 when Toronto was still the Town of York. This congregation had split in 1874 over whether it should move west from the corner of Adelaide and Church Streets. The majority erected a new church in 1876 at King and Simcoe that became known as \"New St. Andrew's\", and it remains there to this day. The church was renovated by Henry Langley in 1877-78. Those who wished to stay in the area stayed in \"Old St. Andrew's\". There was, however, a need for a new building, and in 1878, they moved northeastward into this building at the corner of Jarvis and Carlton Streets.\n\nThe Soviet invasion of the Baltic regions had produced an influx of refugees into Toronto. At the same time, the United Church of Canada, which Old St. Andrew's had joined in 1925, was in relative decline within the downtown core of Toronto.\n\nIn 1950, Old St. Andrew's had joined with \"Westminster-Central\" to become St. Andrew's United Church near the corner of Bloor East and Yonge Streets, and by 1951, the Old St. Andrew's building was sold, and it became the main church of Toronto's Latvian and Estonian worshippers. Saint Andrew, as a renowned saint of the Christian Church, was retained by the congregations.\n\nUntil September 30, 2015, the church remained home to two congregations of both the Estonian Evangelical Lutheran and Latvian Evangelical Lutheran Churches.\n\nAs of October 1, 2015, St. Andrew's became the new home for Grace Toronto Church. The historic building became home of a Presbyterian church again.\n\nGrace Toronto Church was founded in 1992 by Stephen Beck. During this time the church flourished. In 2002, Beck and his family left to become missionaries in Germany, and attendance at Grace began to dwindle. In 2004, Reverend Dan MacDonald became pastor of the church. The church was reduced to a handful of people in 2004, so Dan and Sue, under the guidance of the denomination, re-planted the church. The congregation was reduced to 10 people. In 2006 there were 25 regular attenders. Since 2006 the congregation has grown exponentially.\n\n\nSt. Andrew's Church was built by Langley & Burk in 1878 for \"Rev. M.G. Milligan\" and the congregation of the original \"St. Andrew's Church\". The building is designed in a gothic style with a linear orientation on an East-West axis, with towers dominating the western side where the main entrances are located. The facade is a simple-yet-elegant design featuring groupings of stained-glass windows on the north, east and south sides of the building, to allow maximum light exposure during the morning hours when service would take place. The materials used in the construction are brick, wood, stone and stained-glass. The exterior shows mainly the brick and stone elements, while the interior reveals more of the warm wood texture complemented by the intimate lighting from the stained-glass windows. The approximate dimensions of the building are 36 meters by 25 meters for the body of the building, and 17 meters high to the top of the pitched roof, and 46 meters and 25 meters to the tops of the two steeples.\n\n"}
{"id": "1813221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813221", "title": "Paul Clifford", "text": "Paul Clifford\n\nPaul Clifford is a novel published in 1830 by English author Edward Bulwer-Lytton. It tells the life of Paul Clifford, a man who leads a dual life as both a criminal and an upscale gentleman. The book was successful upon its release. It is known for its opening phrase \"It was a dark and stormy night...\".\n\n\"Paul Clifford\" tells the story of a chivalrous highwayman in the time of the French Revolution. Brought up not knowing his origins, he falls in with a gang of highwaymen. While disguised as a gentleman for the purposes of a confidence trick, he meets and falls in love with Lucy Brandon. Clifford is arrested for a highway robbery and brought before her uncle, Judge Brandon, for trial, where it is unexpectedly revealed that Clifford is Brandon's son.\n\nThat revelation complicates the trial, but Clifford is convicted and Judge Brandon condemns him to death. The sentence is commuted to transportation. Clifford escapes from the penal colony, and he and Lucy make their way to America together.\n\nAlthough \"Paul Clifford\" is rarely read among the general reading public today, it contains one of the most widely known incipits in English literary history: \"It was a dark and stormy night...\" It is frequently invoked for its atmospheric and neo-Gothic description, often in the mystery, detective, horror and thriller genres. Because of its Romantic qualities, it has likewise become a textbook example of purple prose.\n\n\"It was a dark and stormy night\" is only the beginning of the full first sentence:\n\nIt was a dark and stormy night; the rain fell in torrents—except at occasional intervals, when it was checked by a violent gust of wind which swept up the streets (for it is in London that our scene lies), rattling along the housetops, and fiercely agitating the scanty flame of the lamps that struggled against the darkness.\n\n (Second edition (1840))\n"}
{"id": "1813232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813232", "title": "Hasameli", "text": "Hasameli\n\nHasameli (also Hašamili) was the Hittite god of metalworkers and craftsmen. Associated with smoke, he is called on by Mursili II in his Annals to encircle and cloak him that he be concealed from his enemy in a covert assault. He may be related with the Greek Hephaestus.\n\n"}
{"id": "1813234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813234", "title": "Gautrain", "text": "Gautrain\n\nGautrain is an commuter rail system in Gauteng, South Africa, which links Johannesburg, Pretoria, Ekurhuleni and OR Tambo International Airport. The service offers a fast, convenient, safe and efficient public transport service.  It takes 15 minutes to travel from Sandton to OR Tambo International Airport on the Gautrain and 35 minutes from Pretoria in Tshwane to Park Station in Johannesburg.  Buses, shuttles and midibus services are available to transport passengers to and from all stations excluding the OR Tambo International Airport Station. \n\nA cash-free ticketing system and the use of reloadable smart cards, the Gautrain Card makes travelling on the Gautrain quick and convenient.  Passengers can buy their Gautrain Cards at any Gautrain Station as well as approved service outlets. Europay, Mastercard and Visa contactless cards are also usable on Gautrain\n\nGautrain connects people, places of interest and business and creates a seamless connection between economic nodes and public transport corridors.\n\nThe Gautrain is mainly aimed at providing and optimising an integrated, innovative public transport system that enables and promotes the long-term sustainable economic growth of Gauteng. It is also part of a broader vision to industrialise and modernise the region, including a commitment towards creating and sustaining an integrated culture of public transport use. The Gautrain is implemented as a PPP in terms of Treasury Regulation 16 of the PFMA. The Gauteng Provincial Government (GPG) is the public partner and the primary promoter of the Project. The Concessionaire is the Bombela Concession Company (Pty) Ltd, which holds a 19½ year concession for the construction, operation and maintenance of the Gautrain. \n\nAs a PPP, the Gautrain has two main entities responsible for keeping its wheels rolling. These are the GPG through the GMA and the Bombela Concession Company (BCC).\n\nBCC is responsible in terms of the Concession Agreement (CA) for the design, build and part-finance of the Gautrain. The concession also includes the operations of the Gautrain and the Concessionaire is responsible for delivering all the services as defined in the CA to specified levels of performance. These include the services related to the train and buses, safety, stations, revenue collection, marketing and passenger communication. The Concessionaire also takes responsibility for the management and maintenance of all the System assets. It does so in accordance with international good practice and its own corporate governance regime. It is a private, ring-fenced company with three shareholder:-\n\n\n, there are three Gautraun lines in operation.\nThe project was announced in 2000, before South Africa won the rights to host the 2010 FIFA World Cup.\n\nThe Gauteng Department of Transport obtained environmental authorisation and conducted an Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) for this purpose. Authorisation was granted on 25 April 2004. On 7 December 2005 the South African government gave the go-ahead for the project, expected to cost more than 24 billion Rand.\n\nIn February 2006, Finance Minister Trevor Manuel announced the allocation of R7.1 billion from the National Fiscus for Gautrain. On 16 February 2006 then Gauteng Premier Mbhazima Shilowa announced that the Gauteng Province had reached commercial close with the Bombela Consortium, the preferred bidder, and that negotiations to reach financial close commenced.\n\nIn 2006 the Province signed a 20‑year PPP contract with the Bombela Concession Company, which included Murray and Roberts, empowerment organisation Strategic Partners Group, Bombardier, Bouygues, and various minority shareholders.\n\nConstruction started on 28 September 2006, and investors, developers, small businesses, and entrepreneurs are starting new ventures such as office blocks, shopping malls, entertainment, and residential developments along Gautrain’s network. The demand for land as well as property prices in these areas increased dramatically.\n\nThe rail system was built by Bombela Concession Company, a partnership between Bombardier Transportation, Bouygues Travaux Publics, Murray and Roberts, the Strategic Partners Group and RATP Group, the J&J Group, and Absa Bank.\n\nInitial civil works for the Gautrain started in May 2006 and construction commenced after the signing of the Concession Agreement between the GPG and the Bombela Concession Company on 28 September 2006. The main civils contractor was Murray and Roberts Construction (now known as Concor Construction).\n\nThe project was constructed simultaneously in two phases. The first phase involved the section between OR Tambo International Airport, Sandton and Midrand, the second the remainder. The construction of the first phase was scheduled to take 45 months, the second was for 54 months, with completion in 2010 and 2011.\n\nBy the end of May 2008, nearly a third of tunnelling was completed, and excavation of the tunnels was completed on 11 September 2009.\n\nA mixed-face Earth Pressure Balance Shield Tunnel Boring Machine (TBM) was designed and built in Germany by Herrenknecht specifically to cope with complex underground conditions and was the first such machine employed in South Africa. The TBM, named \"Imbokodo\" (meaning \"rock\"), installs pre-cast concrete tunnel lining segments behind it as it moves forward. It leaves behind a watertight and smooth lining to the 6.8 m (22 ft 4 in) diameter tunnel.\n\nThe first public passenger trip was made on 3 February 2009 by 150 people on a 3 km (2 mi) test track at the depot.\n\nThe first part of the System, between Sandton and OR Tambo International Airport, opened to the public on 8 June 2010, in time for the 2010 FIFA World Cup. The route from Rosebank to Pretoria and Hatfield commenced operations on 2 August 2011, while the remaining section from Rosebank South to Johannesburg Park Station opened on 7 June 2012, due to higher than anticipated underground water ingress into the railway tunnel.\n\nFor the first time ever since its opening to the public in 2010, the Gautrain system had been put to halt since 27 March 2020 as part of the lockdown measures taken by the South African government during the Covid-19 pandemic. Passenger services have started to progressively resume on 4 May 2020.\n\nTotal route length - (including underground)<br>\nOff-peak frequency – 1 train per 20 min <br>\nPeak frequency – 1 train per 10 min\n\nAlthough the national railway network in South Africa uses the 1,067 mm (3 ft 6 in) Cape gauge, Gautrain is built with the more expensive international standard gauge of 1,435 mm (4 ft 8 ⁄ in). According to the Gautrain planning and implementation study, this is done for several reasons, including that broader gauge is safer and more comfortable to passengers. The rolling stock is also easier, quicker and less expensive to obtain than Cape gauge rolling stock, and is also less expensive to maintain, as it is more tolerant of track imperfections than Cape Gauge. The 1435 mm gauge allows for travel at Gautrain's required speed of 160 km/h (99 mph). The overhead line voltage is 25 kV alternating current (AC) as is standard in many countries.\n\nAlthough increased flexibility could be obtained by keeping the system interoperable with the South African railway system, a strong case exists for keeping Gautrain separate from the existing network. According to the Gautrain planning and implementation study, an interoperable network may impact service delivery, increase the operating cost and tarnish Gautrain's image.\n\nThe rail network is 80 kilometres long and is connected to other forms of public transport like taxis, buses and the Metrorail public train system. Commuters can also use several Gautrain buses and midibuses to destinations within a 15 kilometre radius.\n\nTravelling at up to 160 kilometres per hour, Gautrain takes 35 minutes to travel between Johannesburg and Pretoria. From Sandton to the OR Tambo International Airport takes 15 minutes, and provision has been made for air passengers to remotely check in at Sandton Station in future.\n\nFares on the Johannesburg/Pretoria route vary according to the peak, shoulder peak and off-peak times, depending on distance. The fare on the Gautrain Bus Link for a rail user varies from is R9 during peak and R2 during off-peak times; for the midibuses, the fare is a standard R10 per trip.   The method of payment on Gautrain buses uses the same personalized electronic ticket as for train travel, requiring a minimum balance of R20.00 for boarding a bus. To board the midibuses, tickets are bought at the midibus counter at the station. Special discounts apply on the purchase of weekly and monthly passes as well as the use of the train during off-peak periods. Tickets can only be purchased at stations and selected retail outlets and not on any bus.   Commuters can now use contactless bank cards to tag in and out of the Gautrain Stations.\n\nSecurity cameras are operational and security guards patrol all the stations and parking areas. Only passengers who have an electronic ticket have access to Gautrain’s stations and the parking areas. Motorists can travel to the stations and leave their cars at the safe parking bays that are next to the train stations. Parking at the stations costs R24 a day for a rail user, however if a passenger does not remove their vehicle within an hour after arriving at the station, they will be charged R100. Car rental offices are also planned at stations.\n\nTen stations are in operation:\n\n\nVarious South African and international engineering disciplines and engineering firms collaborated in the design of the System as a whole. Midrand, Centurion and Pretoria stations were designed by Terry Farrell of England. Each platform is 160 metres in length. Marlboro, Rhodesfield and OR Tambo International Airport Station’s internal fitout and platform envelope were designed by Jaco Groenewald (architect) and GAJV team. The OR Tambo International Airport Station envelope was designed by Izi Martinez (architect) during the OR Tambo International Airport upgrade. Rosebank and Johannesburg Park stations were designed by Atkins - Urban Edge architects joint venture.\n\nBombardier Transportation's Electrostar, a model of train common in South-East England, was selected for the system. Fifteen cars were manufactured and were assembled by Bombardier's Derby Litchurch Lane Works in England, with the remaining cars assembled by the Union Carriage & Wagon in South Africa using structural components made in England. Gautrain has 24 trains, each made up with four cars: 19 trains service the commuter network and five the airport link; the latter consists of forward rail cars specially adapted for the airport link; with storage area for luggage and more luxurious seating.\n\nOn 8 July 2008 the first train was handed over to the Gauteng Premier, Mbhazima Shilowa, in a ceremony in Derby. The last was delivered in December 2010.\n\nThere are currently plans for the acquisition of additional trains.   The project entails the development of new depot facilities and the upgrading of the existing Gautrain signaling system.  The additional train project is expected to have a significant and positive socio-economic impact in the Province as the Gauteng Provincial Government will insist on at least 65 percent local content by the successful bidder. \n\nThe project is expected to sustain 10 000 jobs in Gauteng and total government revenue is to increase by an estimated R542 million in nominal terms between 2019 and 2023. \n\nMuch of the criticism is that money is being spent on the rich at the expense of the poor. Critics contend that it does not serve any of the townships of Gauteng where the transport problem is severe and where the majority of the people live. However, supporters maintain that the train was never meant to be an alternative to mass public transport; instead, it was intended to reduce pressure on Johannesburg's overloaded highway system. Figures released by the Gauteng provincial government in 2003 indicated that the project would do little to relieve traffic on the over-used Ben Schoeman Highway (one of the major motivations for the project), as traffic volumes would be higher when the Gautrain was completed and operating at full capacity in 2010. Leftist political groupings like the SACP and labour movements like COSATU branded the Gautrain as a \"train for the rich\" and called on government not to proceed with the project. A national parliamentary oversight body, the Transport Portfolio Committee, held public hearings in November 2005 and subsequently advised Cabinet to scrap or postpone the project. However, National Cabinet decided on 7 December 2005 to financially support Gautrain.\n\nCritics have questioned ridership estimates, stating that government officials almost always overestimate ridership to gain political approval for projects, and cite numerous international examples where similar projects operate at massive losses or were aborted. However, by October 2010, passenger numbers were in line with previous predictions, and growing. Within 100 days of opening the first phase of the system for the public, 1 million passengers were recorded. As of February 2013, passenger volume was around 40 000 per day by train and 12 000 by bus. This is lower than expected in terms of passenger numbers, but this is partially offset by a longer average trip length (50 km vs the expected 30 km). Peak volumes are higher than expected, though, which can be addressed by adding more coaches during peak times, and reducing the headway between trains from 12 to 10 minutes ahead of the intended 2015 schedule. Tolling on Gauteng highways is also expected to lead to higher passenger numbers.\n\nCritics pointed out that the project would use the majority of available national and provincial transport funds in a context where massive amounts were needed to deal with widespread traffic congestion and commuter transport problems nationally and in the province. The existing railway system in the province, under national rather than provincial control, which serves the majority of the population, was severely underfunded and large-scale and violent public unrest caused by inadequate and old trains had manifested in the province. Critics alleged that options like rapid bus transit could achieve similar levels of service at a fraction of the costs, however, the estimated 62,000 daily riders requires a capacity unfeasible by BRT. These matters were never submitted to a public debate as the project was designed and launched within the confines of the Gauteng Government bureaucracy.\n\nThe environmental benefits of the project are also disputed and the environmental impact assessment (EIA) revealed that Gautrain would at best be environmentally neutral. South Africa uses coal-based electricity generation and the electricity required for Gautrain would come from outside the Gauteng region. The pollution associated with the generation of this electricity would therefore effectively be exported to the Mpumalanga region, an area already under severe strain from air pollution. According to the Gautrain's website, the Gautrain has half the carbon footprint versus a motor vehicle.\n\nIn November 2005 Dunkeld community in Johannesburg decided to contest the alignment in its suburb. Legal action launched by the Muckleneuk / Lukasrand Property Owners and Residents Association (MLPORA) in 2004 (Case No. 28192/04) and an urgent application launched by MLPORA in 2006 went before the High Court of South Africa on 1 August 2006. MLPORA \"inter alia\" opposed the original environmental authorisation granted and the legality of the procedures being followed to approve variant alignments proposed by Bombela. In Pretoria the Gautrain skirts the inner city and cuts through the city's second oldest suburb (Muckleneuk) and high-density residential areas and the middle of the city's educational precinct on its way to Hatfield. The alignment as proposed would result in the prevention of the future development of the cities' education precinct, an urban district with the potential to become a space of national significance. Legal action was also brought by AECI in January 2006 which had not yet gone before court. Approximately 10% of the route traverses AECI-owned land. A dispute with the Centurion Association for a Reasonable Environment (WeCARE) was settled in favour of WeCARE in March 2006. Further legal challenges were expected.\n\nCritics question the growth and job creation benefits that the project will bring. The EIA for the project determined that it is a poorly performing public sector investment project. The project sponsors have been silent on the social benefits that could be gained from alternative public sector investment programmes.\n\nOn 29 January 2006 the draft environmental reports on possible variant routes were released for public comment, without prior warning, with 30 days to comment on them. The variant alignment proposals are primarily cost-cutting measures proposed by the concessionaire, Bombela. Acceptance of these proposals will lower overall project costs and raise their profits. The released draft EIA reports were compiled by experts without public participation and are being fast tracked through the system by the Gauteng Government. Environmental management plans (EMPs) have already been compiled for these route variants. In law EMPs are meant to mitigate environmental impacts identified in consultation with affected parties. The decision to approve the released EIAs and EMPs vests with the sphere of government that is bringing the project application, namely the Gauteng Government. The process followed raised serious questions regarding the audi alteram principle and the protection of the environmental rights of the public. The thirty-day window is, critics believe, not enough time to make a comprehensive response to the highly technical draft environmental reports.\n\nThe proposed route variants were in Hatfield, Centurion, Salvokop, Marlboro and Sandton.\n\nThe project is the largest and costliest transport infrastructure project ever proposed by the provincial government but was never discussed in the Gauteng Provincial Legislature or submitted to any significant public debate before it was approved and put out to tender. Initial cost estimates came in at some R3.5 - 4 billion in 2000 when the project was announced by Premier Shilowa. This figure was revised upwards to R 7 billion for the purposes of the EIA process in 2003 and was finally revealed as being R20 billion (US$3.7 billion) in 2005, after the successful bidder for the project was announced and a contract came into existence. National and provincial government will contribute R20 billion in equal proportions and Bombela will contribute the balance of direct project costs. Loan funding will constitute a large part of these amounts but the financing costs involved have not been stated. The sunk costs for the project will be more than R20 billion. In March 2008, Jeremy Cronin, chairman of the National Assembly's transport portfolio committee and deputy secretary-general of the SACP, complained that the cost had apparently quietly crept up to R35 billion. Cronin has long opposed the project and told the SA Parliament's lower house during a budget debate that his information was that the project's cost was escalating “quietly and below the radar screen”, though MPs “were told, hand on heart, here in Parliament just a few years ago, what the written-in-stone absolute upper limit was [R20 billion]\".\nThe Gautrain management agency CEO, Jack van der Merwe, has subsequently denied this, stating that the project is a fixed-price, fixed-scope and fixed-period contract, and that the price will only increase if the consumer price index increased above the South African Reserve Bank's prediction, if the Gauteng Province were in breach of contract, or if the project's scope were to change.\n\n"}
{"id": "1813235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813235", "title": "The woman question", "text": "The woman question\n\nThe woman question, which is translated from the French term \"querelle des femmes\" (literally, 'dispute of women') refers both to an intellectual debate from the 1400s to the 1700s on the nature of women and feminist campaigns for social change after the 1700s.\n\nWhile the French phrase \"querelle des femmes\" deals specifically with the Renaissance period, 'the woman question' in English (or in corresponding languages) is a phrase usually used in connection with a social change in the later half of the 19th century, which questioned the fundamental roles of women in Western industrialized countries such as the United Kingdom, the United States of America, Canada, and Russia. Issues of women's suffrage, reproductive rights, bodily autonomy, property rights, legal rights, and medical rights, and marriage dominated cultural discussions in newspapers and intellectual circles. While many women were supportive of these changing roles, they did not agree unanimously. Often issues of marriage and sexual freedom were most divisive.\n\nThe \"querelle des femmes\" or 'woman question' originally referred to a broad debate from the 1400s to the 1700s in Europe regarding the nature of women, their capabilities, and whether they should be permitted to study, write, or govern in the same manner as men. Both in the scholarly and popular sphere, authors criticized and praised women's natures, arguing for or against their capacity to be educated in the same manner as men. As classical Aristotelianism held that women are incapable of reason, many argued that women's nature prevented them from higher learning. As the debate developed, some agreed that men were not naturally more intelligent than women – but argued that the female nature also prevented them from taking higher learning seriously. In addition, there was great controversy over Classical notions of women as inherently defective, in which 'defenders of women' like Christine de Pizan and Mary Wollstonecraft attempted to refute attacks against women as a whole.\n\nWhile this debate was deeply important to some of those who wrote in support of or against women, participation in the \"querelle des femmes\" was also an intellectual exercise for many authors with less personal significance.\n\nA resurgence in the debate over the nature and role of women are illustrated by the Romantic movement's exploration in fiction and drama (and opera) of the nature of 'man', of human beings as individuals and as members of society. Conflict between women's prescribed roles, their own values, and their perceptions of self are prominent in such works as \"Die Walküre\", \"Effi Briest\", \"Madame Bovary\", \"Middlemarch\", \"Anna Karenina\", \"A Doll's House\", and \"Hedda Gabler\". Each of these addresses women's emotional, social, economic, and religious lives, highlighting the ways in which 'the woman question' had disrupted notions of a static nature which all women share.\n\nThe term was first used in France: the \"querelle des femmes\" (literally, 'dispute of women'). From 1450 into the years that witnessed the beginning of the Reformation, institutions controlled by the Catholic Church, had come into question. Secular states had begun to form in early modern Europe, and the feudal system was overtaken by centralized governments. This disruption extended to the relationships between men and women, and the Renaissance created a contraction of individual freedom for women, unlike men. These changes were justified through a number of arguments which referred to the inherent nature of women as subordinate to men.\n\nOn one side of the quarrel, many argued that women were inferior to men because man was created by God first, and were therefore stronger and more important. Also, much of Christianity, throughout the ages, has viewed women as the Daughters of Eve, the original temptress responsible for humanity being expelled from the Garden of Eden. Augustine in particular understood women as having souls that were 'naturally more seductive', and emphasized their 'powerful inborn potential to corrupt'.\n\nReligious justifications were not the only sources of information regarding woman's nature. As Renaissance humanism developed, there was great interest in returning to classical Greek and Roman philosophy. Classical philosophy held that women were inferior to men at a physical level, and this physical inferiority made them intellectually inferior as well. While the extent of this inferiority was hotly debated by the likes of Christine de Pizan and Moderata Fonte, women continued to be understood as inherently subordinate to men, and this was the basis for preventing women from attending universities or participating in the public sphere.\n\nThe 'defenders of women' on one side of the debate, according to Joan Kelly, \"pointed out that the writings of the literate and the learned were distorted by what we now call sexism.\" They pointed out that accounts of women's deeds and nature were almost entirely written by men, many of whom had reasons to speak poorly of women. These writers, who were referred to as 'ladies' advocates' by the 17th and 18th centuries, promoted an empirical approach, which would measure the deeds and capabilities of women without bias. These arguments did not always insist that women were individuals, as modern feminists would argue, but often simply attempted to defend the 'nature' of women from slander.\n\nOne of the first women to answer 'the woman question' was Christine de Pizan. She published \"The Book of the City of Ladies\" in 1405, in which de Pizan narrated her learning of the value of women and their virtue. She wrote this book in response to a book called \"Romance of the Rose,\" which attacked women and the value of marriage. While de Pizan wrote this book to justify her place in the world of literature and publishing at the time, \"The Book of the City of Ladies\" can be considered one important source in early feminism.\n\nIn the 1480s, Bartolomeo Goggio argued the superiority of women in his \"\"De laudibus mulierum\"\" [On the Merits of Women], which was dedicated to Eleanor of Naples, Duchess of Ferrara.\n\nBaldassare Castiglione contributed to the \"querelle\" in \"The Courtier\" in 1527, which voiced some support for the 'gentle' side of the debate, which favored women. In 1529, Heinrich Agrippa contended that men in society did not oppress women because of some natural law, but because they wanted to keep their social power and status. Agrippa argued for the nobility of women and thought women were created better than men. He argued that in the first place, women being made better than man, received the better name. Man was called Adam, which means Earth; woman Eva, which is by interpretation Life. Man was created from the dust of the earth, while woman was made from something far purer. Agrippa's metaphysical argument was that creation itself is a circle that began when God created light and ended when he created woman. Therefore, women and light occupy adjacent points on the circle of creation and must have similar properties of purity.\n\nModerata Fonte wrote \"The Worth Of Women\" in 1600, which collected poetry and dialogues which proclaimed the value of women, arguing that their intelligence and capability to rule cannot be recognized if they are not educated. The tradition of defending women from specific attacks continued into the 1600s and 1700s:Another poet, Sarah Fyge Field Egerton, appears to have written \"The Female Advocate\" (1686) – at age 14! – in reply to the \"late satire on women\" quoted for its obscenity; Judith Drake penned \"An Essay in Defence of the Female Sex\" (1696); and women of low and high station continued the polemic in the eighteenth century. – Joan Kelly, \"Early Feminist Theory and the \"Querelle des Femmes.\"\n\nThe term \"querelle des femmes\" was used in England in the Victorian era, stimulated, for example, by the Reform Act 1832 and the Reform Act 1867. The Industrial Revolution brought hundreds of thousands of lower-class women into factory jobs, presenting a challenge to traditional ideas of a woman's place.\n\nA prime issue of contention was whether what was referred to as women's \"private virtue\" could be transported into the public arena; opponents of women's suffrage claimed that bringing women into public would dethrone them, and sully their feminine virtue.\n\nThe woman question was raised in many different social areas. For example, in the second half of the 19th century, in the context of religion, extensive discussion within the United States took place on the participation of women in church. In the Methodist Episcopal Church, the woman question was the most pressing issue in the 1896 conference.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1813236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813236", "title": "List of minerals approved by IMA (C)", "text": "List of minerals approved by IMA (C)\n\n \n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1813240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813240", "title": "Kamrušepa", "text": "Kamrušepa\n\nKamrusepa is a Hittite goddess of healing, medicine, and magic. She is a mother of Aruna. She is involved in the Telepinu Myth, about the \"missing\" vegetation god.\n\nAccording to Hittite Mythology, she enlisted the help of a human to perform a ritual to remove the anger of an angry god, Telepinu. She used the following ingredients during her ritual: ceder essence, sap, chaff, grain, sesame, figs, olives, grapes, ointment, malt, honey, cream and oil. Upon completion of the ritual she sacrificed 12 rams of the sun gods and directed Telepinu's anger into the Underworld.\n\n\nReferences \n"}
{"id": "1813241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813241", "title": "Performing Flea", "text": "Performing Flea\n\nPerforming Flea is a non-fiction book, based on a series of letters written by P. G. Wodehouse to William Townend, a friend of Wodehouse's since their schooldays together at Dulwich College. It was originally published in the United Kingdom on 9 October 1953 by Herbert Jenkins, London. The title alludes to a disparaging comment by the playwright Seán O'Casey, who, in a letter to \"The Daily Telegraph\" in July 1941, referring to Wodehouse's radio broadcasts from Berlin, wrote that \"If England has any dignity left in the way of literature, she will forget for ever the pitiful antics of English literature's performing flea\".\n\nThe letters are introduced and annotated by Townend, who had provided Wodehouse with the story that inspired his character Ukridge. The letters were, in some cases, heavily revised by Wodehouse for the collection with the goal of making them more entertaining.\n\nThe United States version of the book, titled Author! Author!, was published on 20 June 1962 by Simon & Schuster, Inc., New York. It was substantially reworked, with commentary by Wodehouse replacing much of Townend's contribution.\n\n"}
{"id": "1813245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813245", "title": "Aruna (Hinduism)", "text": "Aruna (Hinduism)\n\nAruna (IAST: Aruṇa) literally means \"red, ruddy, tawny\", and is also the name of the charioteer of Surya (Sun god) in Hinduism. He is the personification of the reddish glow of the rising Sun.\n\nAruna is also found in Buddhism and Jainism literature and arts. He is the older brother of the mythological bird Garuda. Aruna and Garuda are the sons of Vedic sage Kashyapa and his wife Vinata. Shrines dedicated to Aruna, called Wat Arun, are found in Thailand. Another Aruna is significant in the \"Ramayana\" epic, where he takes on a female avatar Aruni, and has two sons who are turned into monkey commanders named Sugriva and Vali.. In Mahabharata Surya offered Aruna and the divine chariot to his son Karna which he denied as he didn't want to rely on others to win the war like Arjuna who always depended upon Krishna. In the Upanishadic literature such as the \"Brihadaranyaka Upanishad\", a different sage is named Aruna whose son is also a Vedic sage named Uddalaka. The term is also used for those \"rishis\" in Hindu tradition who achieve liberation through self-study.\n\nAruna is found in different, inconsistent Indian mythologies. In one, he was born prematurely and partially developed from an egg. According to this version, Kashyapa Prajapati's two wives Vinata and Kadru wanted to have children. Kashyapa granted them a boon. Kadru asked for one thousand Nāga sons, while Vinata wanted two. Kashyapa blessed them, and then went away to a forest. Later, Kadru gave birth to one thousand eggs, while Vinata gave birth to two eggs. These incubated for five hundred years, upon which Kadru broke the eggs open and out came her 1,000 sons. Vinata eager for her sons, broke one of the eggs from which emerged the partially formed Aruna. From the broken egg a flash of light, Aruna, sprang forth. He was as radiant and reddish as the morning sun. But, due to the premature breaking of the egg, Aruna was not as bright as the noon sun as he was promised to be. \n\nVinata waited, and later the fully developed brother of Aruna named Garuda (vehicle of Vishnu) was born.\n\nWat Arun (\"Temple of Dawn\") is a \"Wat\" (Buddhist temple) in Yai district of Bangkok, Thailand, on the Thonburi west bank of the Chao Phraya River. The temple derives its name from the Hindu god Aruna and is among the best known of Thailand's landmarks. The first light of the morning reflects off the surface of the temple with pearly iridescence.\n\nDerived words:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1813250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813250", "title": "Noorduyn", "text": "Noorduyn\n\nNoorduyn is a Canadian manufacturer of aircraft products and accessories, specializing in high performance composites. It is headquartered in Montreal, and has offices worldwide serving the commercial, business and military aviation markets. \n\nThe company was originally established as Noorduyn Aircraft Limited, an aircraft manufacturer, by Dutch immigrant Robert B. C. Noorduyn and Walter Clayton. It was established in Montreal in 1933 and in early 1934 acquired the Curtiss-Reid factory in Cartierville, Quebec, near Montreal. In 1935 it began operating as Noorduyn Aviation.\n\nThe first aircraft built was the Noorduyn Norseman I in 1934 with its first flight in 1935.\n\nFive versions (II c. 1936, III c. 1937, IV c. 1937, V and VI) followed until early 1946, when the company was acquired by the Canadian Car & Foundry (CCF) company.\n\nDuring World War II, Noorduyn began producing T-6 Texan \"Harvard\" trainers for the Royal Canadian Air Force, production of which continued under CCF after the takeover.\n\nIn May 1953, CCF sold all rights to the Norseman to \"Noorduyn Norseman Aircraft Ltd.\", a company formed and led by Noorduyn which was sold to Norco Associates in 1982. Norco Associates does not build new aircraft but provides support to the currently operational aircraft.\n\nNoorduyn currently specializes in aircraft interior storage systems for commercial aircraft (galley carts, carriers, drawers, oven inserts, bins, bassinets, etc.) and slings and containers for military transport use.\n\n"}
{"id": "1813252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813252", "title": "Wallace Hartley", "text": "Wallace Hartley\n\nWallace Henry Hartley (2 June 1878 – 15 April 1912) was an English violinist and bandleader on the on its maiden voyage. He became famous for leading the eight-member band as the ship sank on 15 April 1912. He died in the sinking.\n\nWallace Hartley was born and raised in Colne, Lancashire, England. Hartley's father, Albion Hartley, was the choirmaster and Sunday school superintendent at Bethel Independent Methodist Chapel, on Burnley Road where the family attended worship services. Albion himself introduced the hymn \"Nearer, My God, to Thee\" to the congregation. Wallace studied at Colne's Methodist day school, sang in Bethel's choir and learned to play the violin from a fellow congregation member.\n\nAfter leaving school, Hartley started work with the Craven & Union Bank in Colne. When his family moved to Huddersfield, Hartley joined the Huddersfield Philharmonic Orchestra. In 1903, he left home to join the municipal orchestra in Bridlington, where he stayed for six years. He later moved to Dewsbury, West Yorkshire and in 1909, he joined the Cunard Line as a musician, serving on the ocean liners , and .\n\nWhilst serving on the \"Mauretania\", the employment of Cunard musicians was transferred to the music agency C.W. & F.N. Black, which supplied musicians for Cunard and the White Star Line. This transfer changed Hartley's onboard status, as he was no longer counted as a member of the crew, but rather as a passenger, albeit one accommodated in second-class accommodation at the agency's expense. It later transpired that neither the shipping company nor the music agency had insured the musicians, with each claiming it was the other's responsibility.\n\nIn April 1912, Hartley was assigned to be the bandmaster for the White Star Line ship . He was at first hesitant to again leave his fiancée, Maria Robinson, to whom he had recently proposed, but Hartley decided that working on the maiden voyage of the \"Titanic\" would give him possible contacts for future work.\n\nAfter the \"Titanic\" hit an iceberg and began to sink, Hartley and his fellow band members started playing music to help keep the passengers calm as the crew loaded the lifeboats. Many of the survivors said that he and the band continued to play until the very end. None of the band members survived the sinking, and the story of them playing to the end became a popular legend. One survivor who clambered aboard 'Collapsible A' claimed to have seen Hartley and his band standing on the boat deck, near the entrance to the grand staircase, near the base of the second funnel. He went on to say that he saw three of them washed off while the other five held on to the railing on top the Grand Staircase's deckhouse, only to be dragged down with the bow, as Hartley exclaimed, \"Gentlemen, I bid you farewell!\" A newspaper at the time reported \"the part played by the orchestra on board the Titanic in her last dreadful moments will rank among the noblest in the annals of heroism at sea.\"\n\nThough the final song played by the band is unknown, \"Nearer, My God, to Thee\" has gained popular acceptance. Former bandmates claimed that Hartley had said he would play either \"Nearer, My God, to Thee\" or \"Our God, Our Help in Ages Past\" if he were ever on a sinking ship, but Walter Lord's book \"A Night to Remember\" (1955) popularised wireless officer Harold Bride's account of hearing the song \"Autumn\". If it were \"Nearer, My God, to Thee\", it is uncertain which version Hartley used. His father used the \"Propior Deo\" version, by Arthur Sullivan, at church, and his family were certain that he would have used that version. It is this tune's opening notes that appear on Hartley's memorial and that were played at his funeral.\n\nHartley's body was recovered by the \"Mackay–Bennett\" almost two weeks after the sinking. Several press reports confirmed that Wallace was found \"fully dressed with his music case strapped to his body\".\n\nHe was transferred to the \"Arabic\" and returned to England. Hartley's father Albion met the ship at Liverpool and brought his son's body back to his home town of Colne, Lancashire. The funeral took place on 18 May 1912. One thousand people attended Hartley's funeral, while an estimated 30,000 - 40,000 lined the route of his funeral procession.\n\nHartley is buried in the Keighley Road cemetery, Colne, where a high headstone, containing a carved violin at its base, was erected in his honour.\n\nA memorial to Hartley, topped by his bust, was erected in 1915 outside what was then the town library. The memorial is inscribed: Wallace Hartley\nThis was later moved slightly to make way for the World War One memorial. Hartley's large Victorian terraced house in West Park Street, Dewsbury, West Yorkshire, bears a blue plaque to remind passers-by that this was the bandleader's home.\n\nIn 2001, Hartley's name was still being used when naming new streets and housing in the town of Colne. In 2008, the pub chain J D Wetherspoon named a newly opened pub, (the building having been the long-standing King's Head Hotel up until the mid-1990s), in Colne after the bandleader. Another Titanic memorial to the band was erected in one of the driest places on earth, Broken Hill, in north-west New South Wales. The people of Broken Hill were so moved by the bravery of the ship's bandsmen that within a few weeks they had launched a public appeal to create a memorial to them.The memorial, in the shape of a broken pillar, was unveiled in December 1913.\n\nIn March 2013, after two years of in-depth trace analysis by The Forensic Science Service on behalf of auctioneers Henry Aldridge & Son, and seven years of evidence-gathering by the Wiltshire-based auction house, it was announced that a violin found in a British man's attic inside a leather case with the initials \"W. H. H.\" was the instrument used by Hartley who, according to lore, played \"Nearer, My God, to Thee\" during the ship's last moments. The identification was helped by an engraving on the German-made violin which his fiancée (Maria Robinson) had placed on the instrument in 1910 which read: 'For Wallace on the occasion of our engagement from Maria.' Further tests by a silver expert from the Gemological Association of Great Britain confirmed that the plate on the base of the violin was original and that the metal engraving done on behalf of Maria Robinson was contemporary with those made in 1910. A CT scan enabled experts to view 3D images of the inside of the violin. The fine detail of the scan meant experts could examine the construction, interior and the glue holding the instrument together showing signs of possible restoration. While researching the origins of the violin, the auctioneers Henry Aldridge & Son and Christian Tennyson-Ekeberg, biographer of Wallace Hartley and author of \"Nearer, Our God, to Thee: The Biography of the Titanic Bandmaster\", discovered the transcript of a telegram sent to the Provincial Secretary of Nova Scotia, Canada, dated 19 July 1912 in the diary of Hartley's grieving fiancée, Ms. Robinson, in which she stated:\n\nAfter Maria Robinson's death in 1939, her sister gave the violin to the Bridlington Salvation Army and told its leader, a Major Renwick, about the instrument's association with the \"Titanic\". The violin was later passed on to a violin teacher who gave it to the current owner's mother. \"It's been in the same family for over 70 years,\" Henry Aldridge & Sons state. Craig Sopin, the owner of one of the world's largest collections of \"Titanic\" memorabilia, a leading \"Titanic\" expert, and a general skeptic of \"Titanic\" claims believes the violin is \"Hartley's violin and not a fraud\" reports ABC News.\n\nThe Hartley violin was exhibited in Northern Ireland at the shipyard where the RMS \"Titanic\" was built, \"Titanic\" Belfast, and in the United States at Titanic Branson and Titanic Pigeon Forge museums. It was sold by auction house Henry Aldridge & Son in Devizes, Wiltshire, England, on 19 October 2013 for £900,000 ($1.7 million US), as reported by BBC, NBC, and \"The Washington Post\".\n\nThe story of Wallace Hartley and his violin is the inspiration behind the song \"Titanically\" written by Canadian singer/songwriter Heather Rankin and David Tyson, with a music video directed by American-Canadian filmmaker Thom Fitzgerald. The music video was released June 2, 2017, to honour Hartley's birthday.\n\nIn popular music, a song about Wallace Hartley in his last moments, \"The Last Song For My Resting Place\", was written by Joe Bonamassa, and recorded by British-American rock band Black Country Communion on their September 2017 album \"BCCIV,\"\nand an Official Music Video was filmed in-studio.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1813255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813255", "title": "Kettering (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Kettering (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nKettering is a constituency in Northamptonshire represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament since 2005 by Philip Hollobone, a Conservative.\n\n1918–1950: The Urban Districts of Desborough, Kettering, and Rothwell, the Rural Districts of Brixworth, Kettering, and Oxendon, and in the Rural District of Northampton the parishes of Great Billing, Little Billing, and Weston Favell.\n\n1950–1974: The Municipal Borough of Kettering, the Urban Districts of Burton Latimer, Corby, Desborough, and Rothwell, and the Rural Districts of Brixworth and Kettering.\n\n1974–1983: The Municipal Borough of Kettering, the Urban Districts of Burton Latimer, Corby, Desborough, and Rothwell, and the Rural District of Kettering.\n\n1983–1997: The Borough of Kettering, and the District of Daventry wards of Boughton and Pitsford, Brixworth, Clipston, Moulton, and Overstone and Walgrave.\n\n1997–2010: The Borough of Kettering, and the District of Daventry wards of Boughton and Pitsford, Brixworth, Clipston, Guilsborough, Moulton, Overstone and Walgrave, Spratton, and Welford.\n\n2010–present: The Borough of Kettering.\n\nThe constituency covers the major town of Kettering, the smaller towns of Desborough and Rothwell, the small town of Burton Latimer and rural settlements. A semi-rural seat, the preponderance of constituents live in the towns and a minority of the wards form a wide array of rural communities that have civil parish or hamlet status.\n\nThe constituency created in 1918 included the generally (in the late 20th century) Labour-majority industrial town of Corby until the 1983 general election, when Corby gained its own constituency.\n\nThe Boundary Commission's Fifth Periodic Review of Westminster constituencies proposed an additional seat due to population growth in the county. Parliament approved its recommendations for 2010 which made way for the new constituency of South Northamptonshire therefore the constituency lost some wards in these boundary changes.\n\nEconomically, it is predominantly middle-class, well within managerial/directorial commuter zones for London and the West Midlands. Industry continues in some sectors ranging from, for example, lingerie, food production, rigid containers, abattoirs, to the Weetabix factory in Burton Latimer, but the industrial activity of the area, as with the rest of the county, is reduced whereas the wider area's headline gross value added for the area per head has been mostly consistently higher, from £11,667 in 1997 in North Northamptonshire to £17,835.\n\nIn 2005 \"The Guardian\" described it as:\nThe current member of Parliament is Philip Hollobone of the Conservative Party. He was elected in 2005 when he defeated the sitting Labour MP, Phil Sawford, in an election which nationally saw a reduced majority for the Blair Ministry.\n\nPrior to boundary changes in 1918, at least the majority of modern-day Kettering Constituency lay within the Mid Northamptonshire constituency.\n\nPrior to boundary changes in 1885, at least the majority of modern-day Kettering Constituency lay within the North Northamptonshire constituency, which elected two members to Parliament.\n\nNote: The boundary changes to the seat for the 1983 election meant that this seat would have been won by the Conservatives in 1979, as parts of the seat were moved into the newly created seat of Corby which was notionally Labour on the new boundaries and thus saw William Homewood attempt (unsuccessfully albeit) to seek re-election there.\n\nThe British Council commissioned a short film on the 1945 General Election which portrays the contest in the Kettering constituency.\n\n\nNotes \nReferences\n\n"}
{"id": "1813258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813258", "title": "Hanwasuit", "text": "Hanwasuit\n\nIn Hittite mythology, Hanwasuit was the \"throne-goddess\" of the kings. The Hittites believed that the kings derived their right to rule from Hanwasuit.\n\n"}
{"id": "1813259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813259", "title": "Todd Hollandsworth", "text": "Todd Hollandsworth\n\nTodd Mathew Hollandsworth (born April 20, 1973) is an American former professional baseball outfielder in Major League Baseball (MLB). In , he won the National League Rookie of the Year Award, setting a record as the fifth consecutive Los Angeles Dodgers rookie to do so (preceded by Eric Karros, Mike Piazza, Raúl Mondesí, and Hideo Nomo).\n\nHollandsworth was born in Dayton, Ohio, and graduated from Newport High School in Bellevue, Washington, in . He was drafted in the third round of the 1991 Major League Baseball draft by the Los Angeles Dodgers out of high school.\n\nOver four seasons in the Dodgers' farm system, Hollandsworth displayed decent power. He batted .262 with 57 home runs & 245 runs batted in, including a season with the Pacific Coast League's Albuquerque Dukes in which he clubbed nineteen home runs with 91 RBIs.\n\nA lack of outfield depth earned Hollandsworth a spot on the Dodgers opening day roster. He made just six appearances as a late inning defensive replacement for Billy Ashley in left field before breaking a bone in his right wrist. After a brief stint in Albuquerque, he returned to the Dodgers, and went 3-for-4 with two RBIs and two runs scored against the Florida Marlins in his first start on July 14. He also turned in a fine defensive play to preserve the no-hitter Dodgers pitcher Ramón Martínez hurled. On July 18, he hit his first career home run against the Houston Astros' Shane Reynolds. A few innings later, Reynolds served up his second career home run. All told, Hollandsworth batted .233 with five home runs & thirteen RBIs in 1995. He made 115 plate appearances with 103 official at bats, allowing him to go into the season with his rookie status still intact. He went hitless in the 1995 National League Division Series with the Cincinnati Reds.\n\nHollandsworth got off to a slow start in . An 0-for-3 performance against the rival San Francisco Giants on April 16 punctuated a 1-for-25 slump that saw his batting average drop to a season low .111. From there, Hollandsworth went on a tear. He went twelve for his next 25 to raise his batting average to .288. He hit his first home run of the season on May 11, and like his first home run the previous season, a second home run followed in the same game. For the season, he led all NL rookies in hits (139), doubles (26), home runs (tied with Jermaine Dye, 12), RBIs (59) & stolen bases (21) on his way to winning NL Rookie of the Year honors. While the Dodgers were swept in three games by the Atlanta Braves in the 1996 National League Division Series, Hollandsworth had an excellent series. He went 4-for-12 with three doubles.\n\nHollandsworth suffered a sophomore slump in . He was batting .232 with two home runs & eighteen RBIs when demoted to triple A on June 13. He returned at the end of the month, and batted .323 through the month of July before breaking a bone near his right elbow. He returned in September, but saw very limited use. He went 4-for-24 over the remainder of the season to end the season at .247 with four home runs & 34 RBIs. Injuries also derailed his season. He injured his leg twice during Spring training, and suffered a season ending injury in late May.\n\nDuring the off-season, the Dodgers signed free agent center fielder Devon White, prompting Hollandsworth to request a trade. His request went ungranted, and despite his undefined, limited role in , Hollandsworth put up his best numbers since his rookie season. Finding his way into the line-up in all three outfield positions, first base & designated hitter during interleague play, Hollandsworth batted .284 with nine home runs & 32 RBIs, all career highs since his rookie season.\n\nHe began the season platooning with White in center & batting lead-off. With a tight three team race going on in the National League West, Dodgers brass felt they needed to acquire more of a true lead off batter at the trade deadline. On July 31, Hollandsworth & two minor leaguers were shipped to the Colorado Rockies for former Dodger prospect center fielder Tom Goodwin.\n\nAfter a less-than stellar first month with his new club (.234 avg., 1 HR, 5 RBI), Hollandsworth turned it on in September. He batted .379 with ten home runs & eighteen RBIs. His nineteen combined home runs a new career high. Meanwhile, the Rockies, who were 50-54 at the time of Hollandsworth's acquisition, improved to 32-26 following the trade.\n\nThis production prompted the Rockies to re-sign the free agent after the season. Originally expected to play left field and occasionally spell a day off for Juan Pierre in center, Hollandsworth suffered a season ending injury in early May when he fouled a ball off his shin. He was having a career year up until that point, batting .368 with six home runs & nineteen RBIs in 33 games.\n\nHe returned healthy in , and after a slow start, batted .326 with six home runs & twenty RBIs in May. Though he still batted over .300 in both June & July, his power numbers dipped, and he was once again on the move at the trade deadline. He & Dennys Reyes, who was also a teammate with the Dodgers, were traded to the Texas Rangers for Gabe Kapler & Jason Romano though neither team was in contention. Almost immediately after joining his new club, Hollandsworth strained his left quadriceps, and went on the fifteen day disabled list. In 39 games for the Rangers, Hollandsworth batted .258 with five home runs & nineteen RBIs. His 67 combined RBIs between his two clubs were a career high.\n\nFollowing his brief stint in the American League, Hollandsworth signed a one year deal with the Florida Marlins. The Marlins got off to a slow start, and 38 games into the season, fired manager Jeff Torborg, and replaced him with Jack McKeon. For his part, Hollandsworth batted .280 with two home runs & six RBIs for Torborg. Under McKeon, his role diminished. He lost playing time when twenty year old Miguel Cabrera was called up in June. It diminished even further when the Marlins, who were now in a playoff run, acquired original Marlin & fan favorite Jeff Conine at the August 31 post season trade deadline.\n\nRegardless, the formula worked. The Marlins went 75-49 with McKeon at the helm, and captured the NL Wild Card by four games over the Houston Astros. After defeating the San Francisco Giants in the 2003 National League Division Series, the Marlins faced the Chicago Cubs in the 2003 National League Championship Series. Hollandsworth made three pinch hitting appearances, collecting a hit in all three at bats, driving in a run & scoring two.\n\nThis performance must have impressed the Cubs, as following the Marlins' triumph over the New York Yankees in the World Series, Hollandsworth signed with the Cubs as a fourth outfielder & left handed bat off the bench. He thrived in that role, going 9-for-17 with two home runs as a pinch hitter, but injuries once again derailed his season. He was batting .318 with eight home runs & 22 RBIs when he injured himself mid-at bat against the crosstown rival Chicago White Sox on June 27, , ending his season.\n\nHollandsworth returned healthy in , and with Moises Alou & Sammy Sosa both departed, had a starting job in left field. He was batting .254 with five home runs & 54 RBIs when he was acquired by the playoff bound Atlanta Braves on August 29, 2005 for minor league pitchers Todd Blackford & Angelo Burrows.\n\nHollandsworth went just 6-for-35 for a .171 batting average in his brief stint in Atlanta, and made no appearances in the post season. Following the season, he signed a minor league deal with the Cleveland Indians with a nonroster invitation to Spring training . He made the club as a back-up corner outfielder behind Jason Michaels & Casey Blake, and batted .237 with six home runs & 27 RBIs. On August 9, he cleared waivers, and was purchased by the contending Cincinnati Reds. He retired after finishing out the season with the Reds.\n\nDuring the baseball season, Todd was a regular contributor to Comcast Sports Net Chicago commenting on the Chicago Cubs baseball season. In , he was named the pre-and-post-game analyst for CSN Chicago's Cubs telecasts alongside David Kaplan, a gig he would hold until the end of the season.\n\nOn December 22, 2016, it was announced that Hollandsworth would be the color analyst for Miami Marlins games on Fox Sports Florida starting in , pairing up with play-by-play announcer Rich Waltz.\n\nTodd is married to Marci Herges, the sister of his former teammate, pitcher Matt Herges. The two were introduced to one another through Herges while both were with the Dodgers in 2000. Todd & Marci have four children.\n\n"}
{"id": "1813260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813260", "title": "List of minerals approved by IMA (A)", "text": "List of minerals approved by IMA (A)\n\n \n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1813268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813268", "title": "Rundas", "text": "Rundas\n\nRundas is the Hittite god of the hunt and of good fortune. His emblem is a double eagle with a hare in each talon.\n\n"}
{"id": "1813269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813269", "title": "JAP", "text": "JAP\n\nJap is a slur directed towards Japanese people.\n\nJap or JAP may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1813286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813286", "title": "List of minerals approved by IMA (F)", "text": "List of minerals approved by IMA (F)\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1813287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813287", "title": "Tax revenue", "text": "Tax revenue\n\nTax revenue is the income that is gained by governments through taxation. Taxation is the primary source of government revenue. Revenue may be extracted from sources such as individuals, public enterprises, trade, royalties on natural resources and/or foreign aid. An inefficient collection of taxes is greater in countries characterized by poverty, a large agricultural sector and large amounts of foreign aid.\n\nJust as there are different types of tax, the form in which tax revenue is collected also differs; furthermore, the agency that collects the tax may not be part of central government, but may be a third party licensed to collect tax which they themselves will use. For example, in the UK, the Driver and Vehicle Licensing Agency (DVLA) collects vehicle excise duty, which is then passed onto HM Treasury.\n\nTax revenues on purchases come in two forms: \"tax\" itself is a percentage of the price added to the purchase (such as sales tax in U.S. states, or VAT in the UK), while \"duties\" are a fixed amount added to the purchase price (e.g., for cigarettes). In order to calculate the total tax raised from these sales, we must work out the effective tax rate multiplied by the quantity supplied.\n\nTaxation was a key task in any country as it advances state capacity and accountability. Charles Tilly identifies taxation as a form of extraction that allows the state to execute its primary functions: \npublic policies (education, infrastructures, health care), state making, and protection. Taxation became indispensable in western Europe, when countries needed to fund wars in order to survive. This European model was later exported all around the world. Today, the level of taxation is used as an indicator of state capacity. Developed countries raise more taxes and therefore are able to provide better services. At the same time, the high taxation forces them to become accountable with their citizens, which strengthens the democracy.\n\nThe effect of a change in taxation level on total tax revenue depends on the good being investigated, and in particular on its price elasticity of demand. Where goods have a low elasticity of demand (they are price inelastic), an increase in tax or duty will lead to a small decrease in demand—not enough to offset the higher tax raised from each unit. Overall tax revenue will therefore rise. Conversely, for price-elastic goods, an increase in tax rate or duty would lead to a fall in tax revenue.\n\nThe Laffer curve theorises that, even for price-inelastic goods (such as addictive necessary items), there will be a tax revenue maximising point, beyond which total tax revenue will fall as taxes increase. This may be due to:\nThe Laffer curve, however, is not universally accepted; Paul Krugman referred to it as \"junk economics\".\n\nA limiting factor in determining the government budget is the capacity to tax. Per capita income (PCI) is the most often used measure of relative fiscal capacity. But this measure fails to base tax capacity computation on other important tax bases like the sales and property tax and corporate income taxes. A representative tax system should assess the level of personal income, the value of retail sales and the value of property to compute fiscal capacity. To do so the average tax rate for each base is computed by dividing the total revenue derived by the total value of the base. Thus, as an example, income taxes collected would be divided by total income to yield a rate of taxation.\n\nThe averages of each tax base can be used in comparison to other states or communities, that is, the average of other states or communities, to determine whether or not a government compares favorably regionally or nationally. A state or community's standing on these various bases may affect its ability to attract new industry. The resulting rates, high or low in comparison, can become targets for change. The mission of revenue administration is to provide prudent and innovative revenue, investment and risk management and to regulate the use of government capital.\n\nThere are four core responsibilities for the revenue administrator:\n\nNew real estate development may not only enhance the economic base of a state or community, and it may also expand the tax base. It is not always the case, however, that new developments, especially if not properly planned, can in the aggregate, have a negative impact on the tax base. Economic development traditionally focuses on such things as job generation, the provision of affordable housing, and the creation of retail centers. Tax base expansion focuses primarily on maintaining and enhancing real estate values within the municipality. Municipalities tend to pursue economic development with religious fervor and often do not think strategically about the overall real estate impacts of their economic development initiatives. Yet the existing tax base in almost every municipality throughout the United States is an important source of revenue for funding municipal and school expenditures.\n\nFor public sector officials it is important to recognize the potential for a conflict between these two distinct, yet overlapping areas of public policy, and to establish procedures to achieve the proper balance in this regard. For real estate investors it is important to recognize when public policy is not fully cognizant of the impact of its actions on the real estate market, because of the potential negative impact on property values.\n\nIn summary, the concept of tax base management is really one of asset management and is particularly important in U.S. states where municipalities derive much of their revenue from their real estate assessments. City officials in Concord, New Hampshire found that a five percent overall increase in the assessed value of existing property would have the same impact on the tax rate as the addition of of new industrial property or of new office/R&D development, both of which are likely to take fifteen or more years to realize.\n\nIn addition to being responsible for managing the tax base, a community should also be responsible for helping to ensure economic prosperity for its citizens. These two goals can conflict unless a long-term view is taken regarding public policy actions, and unless the impact of alternate development actions and programs and priorities are not carefully evaluated. Good tax base management may lead to even better economic development, because investors and businesses will want to be in a community. Instead of offering incentives to attract business, they may be willing to pay to come to a community because it's a good place to live, work, shop and play.\n\n"}
{"id": "1813301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813301", "title": "Great Spirit", "text": "Great Spirit\n\nThe Great Spirit is a conception of universal spiritual force, Supreme Being or God, and is known as Wakan Tanka among the Sioux, Gitche Manitou in Algonquian, and in many Native American (excluding Alaskan Natives and Native Hawaiians) and Aboriginal Canadian (specifically First Nations people). According to Lakota activist Russell Means, a more semantically accurate translation of Wakan Tanka is the Great Mystery.\n\nDue to perceived similarities between the Great Spirit and the Christian concept of God, colonial European missionaries frequently used such existing beliefs as a means of introducing indigenous Americans to Christianity and encouraging conversion.\n\nThe Great Spirit has at times been conceptualized as an \"anthropomorphic celestial deity,\" a God of creation, history and eternity, who also takes a personal interest in world affairs and might regularly intervene in the lives of human beings.\nNumerous individuals are held to have been \"speakers\" for the Great Spirit; persons believed to serve as an earthly mediator responsible for facilitating communication between humans and the Spirit, or the supernatural more generally. Such a speaker is generally considered to have an obligation to preserve the spiritual traditions of their respective lineage. The Great Spirit, by way of spiritual leaders, is looked to for guidance by individuals as well as communities at large. While belief in an entity or entities known as the Great Spirit exists across numerous indigenous American peoples, individual tribes often demonstrate varying degrees of cultural divergence, which in turn correlates with several distinct beliefs regarding humankind's relationship with the Spirit. As such, a variety of stories, parables, fables, and messages exhibiting different, sometimes contradictory themes and plot elements have been attributed to the same figure by otherwise disparate cultures.\n\n\"Wakȟáŋ Tȟáŋka\" can be interpreted as the power or the sacredness that resides in everything, resembling some animistic and pantheistic beliefs. This term describes every creature and object as \"wakȟáŋ\" (\"holy\") or having aspects that are \"wakȟáŋ\". The element \"Tanka\" or \"Tȟáŋka\" corresponds to \"Great\" or \"large\".\n\nPrior to the Christianization of indigenous Americans by European settlers and missionaries, the Lakota used \"Wakȟáŋ Tȟáŋka\" to refer to an organization or group of sacred entities whose ways were considered mysterious and beyond human understanding. It was the elaboration on these beliefs that prompted scholarly debate suggesting that the term \"Great Mystery\" could be a more accurate translation of such a concept than \"Great Spirit\". Activist Russell Means also promoted the translation \"Great Mystery\" and the view that Lakota spirituality is not originally monotheistic.\n\nChief Luther Standing Bear (1868-1939) of the Lakota Nation put it thusly:\n\nManitou, akin to the Iroquois \"orenda\", is perceived as the spiritual and fundamental life force by Algonquian peoples. It is believed by practitioners to be omnipresent; manifesting in all things, including organisms, the environment, and events both human-induced and otherwise. Manifestations of Manitou are also believed to be dualistic, and such contrasting instances are known as \"aashaa monetoo\" (\"good spirit\") and \"otshee monetoo\" (\"bad spirit\") respectively. According to legend, when the world was created, the Great Spirit, \"Aasha Monetoo\", gave the land to the indigenous peoples, the Shawnee in particular.\n\nThe Anishinaabe culture, descended from the Algonquian-speaking Abenaki and Cree, inherited the Great Spirit tradition of their predecessors. \"Gitche manitou\" (also transliterated as \"Gichi-manidoo\") is an Anishinaabe language word typically interpreted as Great Spirit, the Creator of all things and the Giver of Life, and is sometimes translated as the \"Great Mystery\". Historically, Anishinaabe people believed in a variety of spirits, whose images were placed near doorways for protection.\n\nAccording to Anishinaabe tradition, \"Michilimackinac\", later named by European settlers as Mackinac Island, in Michigan, was the home of Gitche Manitou, and some Anishinaabeg tribes would make pilgrimages there for rituals devoted to the spirit.\n\nOther Anishinaabe names for such a figure, incorporated through the process of syncretism, are \"Gizhe-manidoo\" (\"venerable \"Manidoo\"\"), \"Wenizhishid-manidoo\" (\"Fair \"Manidoo\"\") and \"Gichi-ojichaag\" (\"Great Spirit\"). While \"Gichi-manidoo\" and \"Gichi-ojichaag\" both mean \"Great Spirit\", \"Gichi-manidoo\" carried the idea of the greater spiritual connectivity while \"Gichi-ojichaag\" carried the idea of individual soul's connection to the \"Gichi-manidoo\". Consequently, Christian missionaries often used the term \"Gichi-ojichaag\" to refer to the Christian idea of a Holy Spirit.\n\n"}
{"id": "1813305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813305", "title": "Campeonato Cearense", "text": "Campeonato Cearense\n\nThe Campeonato Cearense is the football (soccer) league of the state of Ceará, Brazil.\n\nThe Campeonato Cearense has three divisions with the following division and format (as in any other Brazilian soccer championship, the format can change every year):\n\nFirst Division\n\nThe ten clubs play two legs. In each leg there are three stages:\n\n\nThe winners of the third stage are leg champions.\n\nThe two leg champions decide the state championship final in two games. If a team wins the two legs is a state champion with no championship final necessary.\n\nThe two teams last placed in all championship are relegated.\n\nSecond Division\n\nThe ten clubs play three stages.\n\n\nThe two teams last placed in all championship are relegated.\n\nThird Division\n\nThe sixteen clubs play two stages.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1813309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813309", "title": "List of minerals approved by IMA (N)", "text": "List of minerals approved by IMA (N)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1813310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813310", "title": "Pinaka multi-barrel rocket launcher", "text": "Pinaka multi-barrel rocket launcher\n\nPinaka is a multiple rocket launcher produced in India and developed by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) for the Indian Army. The system has a maximum range of 40 km for Mark-I and 75 km for Mark-II, and can fire a salvo of 12 HE rockets in 44 seconds. The system is mounted on a Tatra truck for mobility.\nPinaka saw service during the Kargil War, where it was successful in neutralising enemy positions on the mountain tops. It has since been inducted into the Indian Army in large numbers.\n\nAs of 2014, about 5,000 missiles are being produced every year while an advanced variant is under development with enhanced range and accuracy.\n\nAs of 2019, an upgraded guided missile version of the system has been test-fired, with a range of over 90 km.\n\nThe Indian Army operates the Russian BM-21 'Grad' Launchers. In 1981, in response to the Indian Army's need for a long range artillery system, the Indian Ministry of Defence sanctioned two confidence building projects. In July 1983, the Army formulated their General Staff Qualitative Requirement (GSQR) for the system, with planned induction of one Regiment per year from 1994 onwards. This system would eventually replace the Grads.\n\nDevelopment began in December 1986, with a sanctioned budget of 26.47 crore. The development was to be completed in December 1992. Armament Research and Development Establishment, a Pune-based DRDO laboratory, led the development of the system.\n\nPinaka is a complete MBRL system, each Pinaka battery consists of: six launcher vehicles, each with 12 rockets; six loader-replenishment vehicles; three replenishment vehicles; two Command Post vehicle (one stand by) with a Fire Control computer, and the DIGICORA MET radar. A battery of six launchers can neutralise an area of 1,000 m × 800 m.\n\nThe Army generally deploys a battery that has a total of 72 rockets. All of the 72 rockets can be fired in 44 seconds, taking out an area of 1 km. Each launcher can fire in a different direction too. The system has the flexibility to fire all the rockets in one go or only a few. This is made possible with a fire control computer. There is a command post linking together all the six launchers in a battery. Each launcher has an individual computer which enables it to function autonomously in case it gets separated from the other five vehicles in a war.\n\nK J Daniel, Project Director, Pinaka, calls it “a system” and explains how massive each system is. A Pinaka battery has six launchers, six loader vehicles, six replenishment vehicles, two vehicles for ferrying the command post and a vehicle for carrying the meteorological radar, which will provide data on winds.\n\nThe launcher can operate in the following modes:\n\nAutonomous mode. The launcher is fully controlled by a fire control computer (FCC). The microprocessor on the launcher automatically executes the commands received from the FCC, giving the operator the status of the system on displays and indicators.\n\nStand-alone mode: In this mode, the launcher is not linked to the FCC operator, and the operator at the console enters all the commands for laying of the launcher system and selection of firing parameters.\n\nRemote mode: In this mode, a remote control unit carried outside the cabin up to a distance of about 200 m can be used to control the launcher system, the launcher site and to unload the fired rocket pods from the launcher.\n\nManual mode: All launcher operations including laying of the system and firing are manually controlled. This mode is envisaged in the situations where the microprocessor fails or where there is no power to activate the microprocessor-based operator's console.\n\nThe Pinaka was tested in the Kargil conflict and proved its effectiveness. Since then it has been inducted into the Indian Army and series production has been ordered. The Pinaka MBRL is stated to be cheaper than other systems. It costs per system compared to the M270 which costs .\n\nSalient features\n\n\nThe Pinaka project has been a significant success for the DRDO and its development partners in developing and delivering a state of the art, high value project to the Indian Army's demanding specifications. Whilst DRDO was responsible for the overall design and development, its partners played a significant role in developing important subsystems and components. They include Tata Power SED, Larsen and Toubro to state owned Ordnance Factories Board, for the rockets as well as other private and public firms.\n\nThe first Pinaka regiment was raised on February 2000. Each regiment consists of three batteries of six Pinakas each, plus reserves. On 29 March 2006, the Indian Army awarded Tata Power SED and Larsen & Toubro's Heavy Engineering Division a contract worth , to produce 40 Pinaka MBRLs each. Tata Power SED declared that it would be delivering the first units within six months. The Indian Army has placed an intent for Pinaka Weapon System worth 1,300 crores.\n\nOn 29 October 2015, the Defence Acquisition Council chaired by the Defence Minister of India, cleared purchase of two more Pinaka regiments at a cost of . On March 18, 2016, the Cabinet Committee on Security(CCS) cleared the purchase of two additional Pinaka regiments. To supplement the earlier 4 regiments, an order for additional six regiments was cleared by the Defence Acquisition Council on 7 November 2016.\n\nThe Pinaka will be operated in conjunction with the Indian Army's Firefinder radars and Swathi Weapon Locating Radar of which 28 are on order. The Indian Army is networking all its artillery units together with the DRDO's Artillery Command & Control System (ACCS), which acts as a force multiplier. The ACCS is now in series production. The Pinaka units will also be able to make use of the Indian Army's SATA (Surveillance & Target Acquisition) Units which have been improved substantially throughout the late 1990s, with the induction of the Searcher-1, Searcher-2 and IAI Heron UAVs into the Indian Army, as well as the purchase of a large number of both Israeli made and Indian made Battle Field Surveillance radars. These have also been coupled with purchases of the Israeli LORROS Long-Range Reconnaissance and Observation System which is a combination of FLIR/CCD system for long range day/night surveillance.\n\nPresently, 2 regiments of Pinaka have now been inducted by the Army, an additional 2 are on order and the MoD has cleared a RFP for 6 more regiments. The Indian Army has plans to operate a total of 10 regiments by 2022 and increase this to 22 within the next 10 years as the older Grad MLRS regiments are retired.\n\nPinaka II, also called Guided Pinaka, is being developed by Armament Research and Development Establishment (ARDE), Pune; Research Centre Imarat (RCI), Hyderabad; and Defence Research and Development Laboratory (DRDL), Hyderabad. The Mark II version is equipped with a navigation, guidance, control kit and has considerably enhanced the range and accuracy of the missile. The accuracy of the missile is estimated to be between 60m-80m at all ranges.\n\nIt was successfully tested at the Chandipur Test Range in January 2013, and on 20 December 2013. On 20–23 May 2016, four rounds of the Pinaka Mk-II were successfully fired from the test range of Proof and Experimental Establishment (PXE) at Chandipur-on-sea for testing a new guidance system. On 12 January 2017 and 24 January 2017, two successful tests was conducted with range of 65 km and 75 km respectively from Launch Complex-III, Integrated Test Range, Chandipur. On 30 May 2018, two rounds of tests were successfully conducted from Launch Complex-III, ITR, Chandipur. Another round of tests was conducted successfully on 11 March 2019. An extended range version was tested for a range up to 90 km on 19 December 2019, followed by another test on 20 December.\n\nThe Pinaka is in the process of further improvement. Israel Military Industries teamed up with DRDO to implement its Trajectory Correction System (TCS) on the Pinaka, for further improvement of its CEP. This has been trialled and has shown excellent results. The rockets can also be guided by GPS to improve their accuracy. A wraparound microstrip antenna has been developed by DRDO for this system.\n\nWhile the Pinaka will not be developed further into a larger system, its success and the experience gained from the programme has led the ARDE and its partner organisations, to launch a project to develop a long range MRL similar to the Smerch MLRS. A 7.2-metre rocket for the Pinaka MBRL, which can reach a distance of 120 km and carry a 250 kg payload will be developed. These new rockets can be fired in 44 seconds, have a maximum speed of mach 4.7, rise to an altitude of 40 km before hitting its target at Mach 1.8. Integrating UAVs with the Pinaka is also in the pipeline, as DRDO intends to install guidance systems on these rockets to increase their accuracy. Sagem completed delivery of its Sigma 30 laser-gyro artillery navigation and pointing system to be equipped with the Pinaka multiple launch rocket system in June 2010. The Sigma 30 artillery navigation and pointing system is designed for high-precision firing at short notice.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1813312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813312", "title": "ALGOL 68C", "text": "ALGOL 68C\n\nALGOL 68C is an imperative computer programming language, a dialect of ALGOL 68, that was developed by Stephen R. Bourne and Michael Guy to program the Cambridge Algebra System (CAMAL). The initial compiler was written in the \"Princeton SYntax COmpiler\" (PSYCO, by Edgar T. Irons) that was implemented by J. H. Mathewman at Cambridge.\n\nALGOL 68C was later used for the CHAOS OS for the capability-based security CAP computer at University of Cambridge in 1971. Other early contributors were Andrew D. Birrell and Ian Walker.\n\nSubsequent work was done on the compiler after Bourne left Cambridge University in 1975. Garbage collection was added, and the code base is still running on an emulated OS/MVT using Hercules.\n\nThe ALGOL 68C compiler generated output in \"ZCODE\", a register-based intermediate language, which could then be either interpreted or compiled to a native executable. This ability to interpret or compile ZCODE encouraged the porting of ALGOL 68C to many different computing platforms. Aside from the CAP computer, the compiler was ported to systems including Conversational Monitor System (CMS), TOPS-10, and Zilog Z80.\n\nA very early predecessor of this compiler was used by Guy and Bourne to write the first Game of Life programs on the PDP-7 with a DEC 340 display.\n\nVarious \"Liverpool Software Gazette\" issues detail the Z80 implementation. The compiler required about 120 KB of memory to run; hence the Z80's 64 KB memory is actually too small to run the compiler. So ALGOL 68C programs for the Z80 had to be cross-compiled from the larger CAP computer, or an IBM System/370 mainframe computer.\n\nStephen Bourne subsequently reused ALGOL 68's codice_1, codice_2 and codice_3 clauses in the common Unix Bourne shell, but with codice_4's syntax changed, codice_5 removed, and codice_6 replaced with codice_7 (to avoid conflict with the od utility).\n\nAfter Cambridge, Bourne spent nine years at Bell Labs with the Version 7 Unix (Seventh Edition Unix) team. As well as developing the Bourne shell, he ported ALGOL 68C to Unix on the DEC PDP-11-45 and included a special option in his Unix debugger \"Advanced Debugger\" (adb) to obtain a stack backtrace for programs written in ALGOL 68C. Here is an extract from the Unix 7th edition manual pages:\n\nBelow is a sampling of some notable extensions:\n\nSeparate compilation in ALGOL 68C is done using the codice_17 and codice_18 clauses. The codice_17 saves the complete environment at the point it appears. A separate module written starting with a codice_18 clause is effectively inserted into the first module at the point the codice_17 clause appears.\n\ncodice_17 and codice_18 are useful for a \"top-down\" style of programming, in contrast to the \"bottom-up\" style implied by traditional library mechanisms.\n\nThese clauses are kind of the \"inverse\" of the #include found in the C programming language, or import found in Python. The purpose of the codice_17 mechanism is to allow a program source to be broken into manageable sized pieces. It is only necessary to parse the shared source file once, unlike a #include found in the C programming language where the include file needs to be parsed for each source file that includes it.\n\nA file called \"mylib.a68\":\nA file called \"usemylib.a68\":\n\nA translator–compiler for ALGOL 68C was available for the PDP-10, IBM System/360 and several other computers.\n\n"}
{"id": "1813325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813325", "title": "Sriracha", "text": "Sriracha\n\nSriracha (, ; or ) is a type of hot sauce or chili sauce made from a paste of chili peppers, distilled vinegar, garlic, sugar, and salt.\n\nIn Thailand, sriracha is frequently used as a dipping sauce, particularly for seafood. In Vietnamese cuisine, sriracha appears as a condiment for phở and fried noodles, as a topping for spring rolls (\"chả giò\"), and in sauces.\n\nSriracha is also eaten in soup, on eggs and burgers. Jams, lollipops, and cocktails have all been made using the sauce, and sriracha-flavored potato chips have been marketed.\n\nThe origin and history of sriracha are debated. One report has it that the sauce was first produced by a Thai woman named Thanom Chakkapak in the town of Si Racha (or Sri Racha). According to the Thai \"Chomrom Rak Si Racha\" (The Si Racha Lovers' Association) the sauce was first made in Si Racha by Burmese sawmill workers. The association interviewed 88-year-old Thawat Wiphisamakun, known locally as Ah Pae. Ah Pae's maternal grandmother had a small shop in Si Racha. The Burmese workers came to the shop to buy chilies, salt, vinegar, and sugar to pound in a mortar to make their sauce. Eventually she started making the sauce herself, both for family use and for sale to customers. Soon, another customer, Kimsua Thimkrachang, began to buy large quantities of chilies, salt, vinegar, and sugar. He was making the chili sauce for sale as Sauce Si Racha Traa Phukhao Thong (Golden Mountain Brand Si Racha Sauce) with a picture of the Golden Mountain Temple on the label. Its name was Si Racha Phanich.\n\nAnother report has it that the sauce originated in the town of Sri Racha (Sri Racha, Sriracha), Thailand in the early 1930s by La Orr Suwanprasop. La Orr was born and raised in Sri Racha and eventually met her husband who was from Bangkok. Upon getting married she and her husband moved to Bangkok where she would continually make batches of the famous chili sauce for her friends. Her friends would encourage her to make the sauce for sale which ultimately motivated her to start her sriracha sauce business. After discussion with a monk, La Orr was given the blessing to start the sriracha chili sauce business. The monk had given her the idea to name the sauce \"sriracha sauce\", after her hometown. By 1932, La Orr Suwanprasop began producing and selling her sauce in Bangkok. Over time, the rumor of her sauce began to spread and chefs all over Bangkok started using her sauce in their restaurants. La Orr and her family eventually entered their sauce into annual competitions where she was awarded several gold medals which is why their sriracha sauce is named the Gold Medal Brand. After winning various medals and recognition for their sauce, La Orr and her family eventually brought their medals to the government food department in Bangkok to establish that they are the original creators of “Sriracha Sauce”. By this time, it was very difficult for the government to prove that they were the original creators of the famous sauce as there were several other “copycat” brands but there are no records showing that the sauce was made before 1932. The food department recommended that they change their logo’s design so that it incorporates wording “Produced in 1932”, to indicate that Gold Medal was the first of the sriracha sauce brands. Today, Lakut Suwanprasop, son of La Orr Suwanprasop, still follows the traditions of his mother in creating and selling the sriracha sauce from fresh, well-inspected chilis.\n\nIn Thailand, the sauce is most often called \"sot Siracha\" () and only sometimes \"nam phrik Siracha\" (). Traditional Thai sriracha sauce tends to be tangier in taste, and runnier in texture than non-Thai versions.\n\nIn a \"Bon Appétit\" magazine interview, US Asian-foods distributor Eastland Food Corporation asserted that the Thai brand of hot sauce \"Sriraja Panich\", which Eastland distributes, is the original \"sriracha sauce\" and was created in Si Racha, Thailand, in the 1930s from the recipe of a housewife named Thanom Chakkapak.\n\nIn the United States, sriracha is associated with a sauce produced by Huy Fong Foods and is sometimes referred to as \"rooster sauce\" or \"cock sauce\" from the image of a rooster on the bottle. Other variations of sriracha have appeared in the US market, including a sriracha that is aged in whiskey barrels. The Huy Fong Foods Sriracha was first produced in the early 1980s for dishes served at American phở restaurants.\n\nVarious restaurants in the US, including Wendy's, Applebee's, P.F. Chang's, Jack in the Box, McDonald's, Subway, Taco Bell, White Castle, Gordon Biersch, Chick-fil-A, Firehouse Subs, Noodles & Company, Starbucks and Burger King have incorporated sriracha into their dishes, sometimes mixing it with mayonnaise or into dipping sauces. Blue Diamond, a leading producer of almond products, markets a sriracha flavor alongside their other flavors. The word \"sriracha\" is considered a generic term.\n\nIn 2013, American filmmaker Griffin Hammond released \"Sriracha\", a documentary about the origin and production of sriracha sauce.\n\n"}
{"id": "1813331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813331", "title": "List of minerals approved by IMA (P–Q)", "text": "List of minerals approved by IMA (P–Q)\n\n \n\n\n\n\n\n \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1813332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813332", "title": "Piscataquis River", "text": "Piscataquis River\n\nThe Piscataquis River is a major tributary of the Penobscot River, found in Piscataquis County, Maine, United States. It starts from the confluence of its East Branch and West Branch () in Blanchard. The river flows in a mostly eastern direction until it meets the Penobscot at Howland. It is approximately in length.\n\nThe United States government maintains three river flow gauges on the Piscataquis river. The first is at Blanchard () where the rivershed is . Flow here has ranged from 7,550 to . The second is near Dover-Foxcroft, Maine () where the rivershed is . Flow here has ranged from 37,300 to per second. The third is in Medford, Maine () where the rivershed is . Flow here has ranged from 60,100 to per second.\n\nThe Appalachian Trail runs along the West Branch of the Piscataquis, crossing the East Branch just upstream from their joining. The river is impounded by the Howland Dam at its confluence with the Penobscot River.\n\n"}
{"id": "1813340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813340", "title": "Assertive discipline", "text": "Assertive discipline\n\nAssertive discipline is an obedience-based discipline approach to classroom management developed by Lee and Marlene Canter. It involves a high level of teacher control in the class. It is also called the \"take-control\" approach to teaching, as the teacher controls their classroom in a firm but positive manner. The approach maintains that teachers must establish rules and directions that clearly define the limits of acceptable and unacceptable student behavior, teach these rules and directions, and ask for assistance from parents and/or administrators when support is needed in handling the behavior of students.\n\nThe underlying goal of assertive discipline is to allow teachers to engage students in the learning process uninterrupted by students' misbehaviour.\n\nAssertive discipline trains teachers to: \n\nPart of this approach is developing a clear classroom discipline plan that consists of rules which students must follow at all times, positive recognition that students will receive for following the rules, and consequences that result when students choose not to follow the rules. These consequences should escalate when a student breaks the rules more than once in the same lesson. But (except in unusual circumstances) the slate starts anew the next day.\n\nAssumptions of this approach include:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1813341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813341", "title": "Lucia Joyce", "text": "Lucia Joyce\n\nLucia Anna Joyce (26 July 1907, Trieste – 12 December 1982, Northampton) was a professional dancer and the daughter of Irish writer James Joyce and Nora Barnacle. Once treated by Swiss psychoanalyst Carl Jung, Joyce was diagnosed as schizophrenic in the mid-1930s and institutionalized at the Burghölzli psychiatric clinic in Zurich. In 1951, she was transferred to St Andrew's Hospital in Northampton, where she remained until her death in 1982.\n\nLucia Anna Joyce was born in the Ospedale Civico di Trieste on 26 July 1907. She was the second child of Irish writer James Joyce and his partner (later wife) Nora Barnacle, after her brother Giorgio. As her parents were expatriates living in Trieste, Lucia's first language was Italian. In her younger years, she trained as a dancer at the Dalcroze Institute in Paris. She studied dancing from 1925 to 1929, training first with Jacques Dalcroze, followed by Margaret Morris, and later with Raymond Duncan (brother of Isadora Duncan) at his school near Salzburg. In 1927, Joyce danced a short duet as a toy soldier in Jean Renoir’s film adaptation of Hans Christian Andersen's \"La Petite marchande d’allumettes\" (The Little Match Girl). She furthered her studies under Lois Hutton, Hélène Vanel, and Jean Borlin, lead dancer of the Ballet suédois.\n\nIn 1928, she joined \"Les Six de rythme et couleur,\" a commune of six female dancers that were soon performing at venues in France, Austria, and Germany. After a performance in La Princesse Primitive at the Vieux-Colombier theatre, the \"Paris Times\" wrote of her: \"Lucia Joyce is her father’s daughter. She has James Joyce’s enthusiasm, energy, and a not-yet-determined amount of his genius. When she reaches her full capacity for rhythmic dancing, James Joyce may yet be known as his daughter’s father.\"\n\nOn 28 May 1929, she was chosen as one of six finalists in the first international festival of dance in Paris held at the Bal Bullier. Although she did not win, the audience, which included her father and the young Samuel Beckett, championed her performance as outstanding and loudly protested the jury’s verdict. Her relationship with Samuel Beckett was one of unrequited affection. Allegedly, when Lucia was 21, she and Becket, who was her father's secretary for a short time, became lovers. Their relationship lasted only a short while and ended after Beckett, who was involved with another woman at the time, admitted that he was solely interested in having a professional relationship with James Joyce.\n\nAt the age of 22, Joyce, after years of rigorous dedication and long hours of practice, decided \"she was not physically strong enough to be a dancer of any kind\". Announcing she would become a teacher, she then \"turned down an offer to join a group in Darmstadt and effectively gave up dancing.\"\n\nHer biographer Carol Shloss, however, argues that it was her father who finally put an end to her dancing career. James reasoned that the intense physical training for ballet caused her undue stress, which in turn exacerbated the long-standing animosity between her and her mother Nora. The resulting incessant domestic squabbles prevented work on \"Finnegans Wake\". James convinced her she should turn to drawing lettrines to illustrate his prose and forgo her deep-seated artistic inclinations. To his patron Harriet Shaw Weaver, James Joyce wrote that this resulted in \"a month of tears as she thinks she has thrown away three or four years of hard work and is sacrificing a talent\".\n\nJoyce started to show signs of mental illness in 1930, a year after she began casually dating the 23-year-old Samuel Beckett, then a junior lecturer in English at the Ecole normale supérieure in Paris. In May 1930, while her parents were in Zurich, she invited Beckett to dinner, hoping \"to press him into some kind of declaration.\" He flatly rejected her, explaining that he was only interested in her father and his writing. In his biography of James Joyce, Gordon Bowker argues that the underlying reasons for the rejection were Beckett's keen awareness of the \"strong unfulfilled erotic bond between Lucia and her father\" and her need to find \"a genius father-substitute\", together with \"her predilection for unprotected sex.\"\n\nBy 1934, she had participated in several failed affairs, with her drawing teacher Alexander Calder, another expatriate artist Albert Hubbell, and Myrsine Moschos, assistant to Sylvia Beach of Shakespeare and Company. As the year wore on, her condition had deteriorated to the point that James had Carl Gustav Jung take her in as a patient. Soon after, she was diagnosed with schizophrenia at the Burghölzli psychiatric clinic in Zurich. In 1936, James consented to have his daughter undergo blood tests at St Andrew's Hospital in Northampton. After a short stay, Lucia Joyce insisted she return to Paris, the doctors explaining to her father that she could not be prevented from doing so unless he had her committed. James told his closest friends that \"he would never agree to his daughter being incarcerated among the English.\"\n\nLucia Joyce returned to stay with Maria Jolas, the wife of \"transition\" editor Eugene Jolas, in Neuilly-sur-Seine. After three weeks, her condition worsened and she was taken away in a straitjacket to the Maison de Santé Velpeau in Vésinet. Considered a danger to both staff and inmates, she was left in isolation. Two months later, she entered the \"maison de santé\" of François Achille Delmas at Ivry-sur-Seine.\n\nIn 1951, Joyce was again transferred to St Andrew's Hospital. Over the years, she received visits from Beckett, Sylvia Beach, Frank Budgen, Maria Jolas, and Harriet Shaw Weaver who acted as her guardian. In 1962, Beckett donated his share of the royalties from his 1929 contributory essay on \"Finnegans Wake\" in \"Our Exagmination Round His Factification for Incamination of Work in Progress\" to help pay for her confinement at St Andrew's.\n\nIn 1982, Joyce suffered a stroke and died on 12 December of that year. She is buried in Kingsthorpe Cemetery.\n\nEach year on Bloomsday (16 June) extracts from James Joyce's \"Ulysses\" and other readings related to his life and works are read at Lucia Anna Joyce's graveside. In 2018 on Bloomsday, \"Letters to Lucia\", a play written by Richard Rose and James Vollmar in which characters from Lucia's life, including Samuel Beckett, Kathleen Neel, Nora Barnacle/Joyce and Joyce himself appear, was performed by the Triskellion Irish Theatre Company at the graveside.\n\nHer mental state, and documentation related to it, is the subject of a 2003 study (Lucia Joyce: To Dance in the Wake) by Carol Loeb Shloss, who believes Lucia Joyce to have been her father's muse for \"Finnegans Wake\". Making heavy reference to the letters between Joyce and her father, the study became the subject of a copyright misuse suit by the James Joyce estate. On 25 March 2007, this litigation was resolved. Professor John McCourt, of the University of Macerata, a prize-winning Joyce scholar, trustee of the International James Joyce Foundation, and co-founder and director of the International James Joyce symposium held at Trieste, wrote in \"A Companion to Literary Biography\" (ed. Robert Bradford, Wiley Blackwell, 2019) that Shloss, in her \"sometimes obsessive\" book, \"seeks very deliberately to depose Nora (Joyce's wife) as Joyce's chief muse ... in doing so, it overplays its hand with exaggerated claims about Lucia's genius and about her importance to Joyce's creative process and vindictively harsh judgments on most members of the Joyce family and circle\"; the book's \"most damaging legacy is the cottage industry of derivative versions of Lucia that it has helped to spawn ... the key source for a whole series of writings about Lucia that uncomfortably mix fact and fiction.\"\n\nIn 2004, Joyce's life was the subject of \"Calico\", a West End play written by Michael Hastings, and, in 2012, of the graphic novel \"Dotter of Her Father's Eyes\" by Mary and Bryan Talbot. A play exploring her life titled \"L\" was performed to a limited audience in Concord Academy from 14 April to 16 April 2016. It was written and directed by Sophia Ginzburg. In 2016, she was the subject of a biographical novel, \"The Joyce Girl\" by Annabel Abbs; in 2018, she was the subject of a novel by Alex Pheby, titled \"Lucia\". Lucia Joyce is the protagonist of the \"Round the Bend\" chapter of Alan Moore's 2016 novel \"Jerusalem\"; set at the Northampton clinic where she spent her final years, the chapter is written in the style of her father's \"Finnegans Wake\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1813344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813344", "title": "Eastern elk", "text": "Eastern elk\n\nThe eastern elk (\"Cervus canadensis canadensis\") was a subspecies or distinct population of elk that inhabited the northern and eastern United States, and southern Canada. The last eastern elk was shot in Pennsylvania on September 1, 1877. The subspecies was declared extinct by the United States Fish and Wildlife Service in 1880. Another subspecies of elk, the Merriam's elk, also became extinct at roughly the same time.\n\nAs of 2017, the IUCN has reclassified all North American elk subspecies aside from the tule and Roosevelt elk as \"C. c. canadensis\". If this is accurate, this means that the subspecies is not extinct, and has returned to the eastern US as the Rocky Mountain elk reintroduced to the region since the 20th century.\n\nThe eastern elk was larger than its western cousins. A full-grown bull could weigh up to 1,000 pounds, stand 50-60 inches tall at the shoulder, and carry a rack of antlers six feet in length.\n\nBy the late 15th century, elk were the most widespread in North America and could be found throughout most of the continent. Eastern elk inhabited the vast forests of the Eastern Woodlands region as far west as the Mississippi River. As people continued to settle in the region over the next few centuries, elk populations decreased due to over-hunting and the loss of their dense woodland habitat. Naturalist John James Audubon reportedly mentioned that by 1851 a few elk could still be found in the Allegheny Mountains but that they were virtually gone from the remainder of their range. By the end of the 19th century the Eastern elk was completely extinct. What little is known about this race of elk has been gleaned from remains and historical references. Mitochondrial DNA studies in 2004 indicate that \"Cervus canadensis\" are a species distinct from European red deer.\n\nPrehistoric evidence of Eastern Elk from 2500 years ago has been found in Alabama and Delaware. Eastern Elk were eliminated in South Carolina in 1737. Georgia in 1770. North Carolina in 1780. Maryland and Vermont in 1800. New Jersey in 1805. Arkansas and Quebec in 1830. Indiana and Ohio in 1840. Louisiana in 1842. New York in 1847. Illinois and Kentucky in 1850. Virginia in 1855. Tennessee in 1865. Pennsylvania in 1868. Wisconsin in 1875. Michigan in 1880. Iowa in 1885. Minnesota in 1896. Missouri in 1898.\n\nNot long after the last elk was killed in Pennsylvania, federal officials, worried about mushrooming elk herds in and around Yellowstone National Park, offered the animals to anyone willing to take them. The recently formed Pennsylvania Game Commission took Yellowstone officials up on their offer, and launched a program to reintroduce elk to Pennsylvania. Starting in 1913 and ending in 1926, the Commission released 177 elk in 10 counties, including 50 animals from Yellowstone. Currently, Pennsylvania's elk herd numbers more than 800 and their range covers approximately 800 square miles.\n\nIn 1990, feasibility studies were conducted to determine if wild, free-ranging elk still had a place in some of their former eastern haunts. Once this was complete, healthy source herds of Rocky Mountain elk from Arizona, Kansas, New Mexico, North Dakota, Oregon, Utah and Alberta’s Elk Island National Park were used to introduce elk back into the former eastern elk range.\n\nSuccessful elk populations have now been introduced in Arkansas (1991), Wisconsin (1995), Ontario (2001), Kentucky, Tennessee and Great Smoky Mountains National Park in 2002, Michigan in 1919, the Missouri Ozarks (2011), and in 2012 Virginia. In late 2016, elk were reintroduced into southern West Virginia. In addition, feasibility studies have also been completed in Illinois and New York (although these have not yet resulted in any elk restorations).\n\nThere may be more remaining of the eastern elk than old skeletons. In 1905, 18 elk were introduced to Fiordland National Park in New Zealand—a gift from Theodore Roosevelt. The elk were survivors of an original shipment of 20, half of which came from Yellowstone National Park and half from an Indian game reserve in Brookfield, Massachusetts, owned by H.E. Richardson. The latter are believed to be eastern elk captured in northern Minnesota by Native Americans. The possible eastern elk bloodline might explain some unusual characteristics he has seen in New Zealand elk, such as \"bifurcated\" antlers in which the dagger, or fourth point, forks at the tip.\n\nHowever, the likelihood of a pure bloodline is very low. Even though the animal population had successfully adapted to the harsh terrain, several factors likely contributed to a dilution of the pure gene pool. To wit, removal of protection in 1935; the crossbreeding with red deer that spread into the area; the gazetting of the Fiordland region as a national park in 1952; and the resulting status of the elk and all introduced game species being relegated to that of noxious animals, or pests, by the government agencies of the time has seen the wild herd go into decline. Today, that herd is but a shadow of its former self, being comprised now only of crossbreeds of varying degree that have defied the efforts of\ngovernment agencies to exterminate or remove them from Fiordland.\n\nEastern elk could have also hung on in the extensive forests of Ontario. While evidence is sketchy, numerous people reported seeing a band of elk near Sault Ste. Marie, Ontario and Sault Ste. Marie, Michigan in the early 1980s. These elk could be of eastern origin—and could still exist in the wilds of Ontario.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1813352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813352", "title": "Al-Faw", "text": "Al-Faw\n\nAl-Fāw (; sometimes transliterated as \"Fao\") is a port town on Al-Faw Peninsula in Iraq near the Shatt al-Arab and the Persian Gulf. The Al Faw Peninsula is part of the Basra Governorate.\n\nThe town lies at the south-east end of the Al-Faw Peninsula on the right bank of the Shatt al-Arab, a few kilometres away from the Persian Gulf.\n\nThe town, as well as the whole Faw Peninsula, was the scene of armed conflict during World War I, the Iran–Iraq War, the Persian Gulf War, and the Iraq War due to its strategic position at the entrance of the Shatt al-Arab.\n\nThe city was extensively damaged during the Iraq-Iran war, but in 1989 it was rebuilt in four months to a completely new city plan.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1813354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813354", "title": "Southern New England Railway", "text": "Southern New England Railway\n\nThe Southern New England Railway was a never-finished plan by the Grand Trunk Railway (GT) to build a railroad from the GT-owned Central Vermont Railway at Palmer, Massachusetts south and east to the all-weather port of Providence, Rhode Island. Despite never being finished, large amounts of grading and construction were done, including many large concrete supports.\n\nThe railroad, conceived by GTR president Charles Melville Hays to break the near-monopoly of the New Haven Railroad in southern New England, was chartered in April 1910, and was to be built as a completely grade-separated air line, having low grades and long high bridges over valleys.\n\nHays went down with the RMS \"Titanic\" in April 1912; nevertheless, construction on the SNE commenced at full speed in May. However, all work stopped in November 1912, ostensibly due to an inability of worldwide bond markets to finance further GT expansion, although pressure from the New Haven, at the time closely allied with financier J. Pierpont Morgan, was widely suspected. Construction soon resumed in Massachusetts so that contractor John Marsch, who threatened litigation against the GT for breach of contract, could be paid for the work. However, construction in Rhode Island, being the responsibility of a different contractor, did not restart. Thus, by 1916, almost all the grading and concrete work in Massachusetts was completed, although no steelwork other than on highway overpasses was ever erected. World War I was seen as only a temporary financial setback to construction, which, however, never resumed.\n\nSeveral reasons have been given for the abandonment of the SNE project in addition to the war: bankruptcy of the GT due to overexpansion by subsidiary Grand Trunk Pacific; a desire by the reorganized railroad (Canadian National Railways) to concentrate on serving Canadian ports with existing lines rather than building new ones in the U.S.; the existence of an all-weather port in southern New England (New London) already served by the Central Vermont; the Federal control of American railroads between 1917 and 1920 and its disruptive aftermath; and the increasing influence of the motor truck and automobile (passenger service on the SNE had been contemplated along with freight).\n\nAttempts were made throughout the 1920s, and into the early 1930s by politicians and businessmen, mostly from Rhode Island, to restart the work and to get the line completed as a way to break the New Haven's stranglehold on freight traffic in Rhode Island, but the Great Depression finally put an end to their efforts. Some concrete abutments were removed for highway projects starting as early as 1929, and several washouts later compromised the right-of-way, particularly during hurricanes in 1938 and in 1955.\n\nThe construction of the SNE's gently-graded \"air line\" had its geographical costs in high fills, long trestles, and sharp curves. Also of crucial importance to the Grand Trunk was avoiding Connecticut. The company purposely had not sought a charter to build through the home state of the rival New Haven, which Charles M. Hays assumed would mount significant opposition to the SNE in the Connecticut legislature.\n\nIn climbing out of Palmer, the SNE would have crossed over the Boston and Albany Railroad twice (in addition to the CV's diamond crossing of the B&A at Palmer, still in use today). The second crossing would have been a spectacular, tall steel trestle on a hairpin turn over the B&A and the Quaboag Valley.\nIn Millville, Massachusetts, the SNE would have passed over the Blackstone River on another (straighter) high-level bridge, with both the New York and New England Railroad (now abandoned) and the Providence and Worcester Railroad (still in use) below. Several full-height supports were built as well as several partial supports in the river.\n\nThe two above trestles were built for steel; however, one major trestle was made of wood and was actually built: a 1,000-foot long, 55-foot tall \"beanpole\" trestle over the French River and the New Haven-controlled Norwich and Worcester Railroad. For reasons of cost, the trestle was intended to be permanent. Typical of railroad construction at the time, the SNE also built many semi-permanent wooden trestles, around which fill would be dumped to create embankments.\n\nThe main route would have gone through Woonsocket, Rhode Island to downtown Providence, with a branch around the west side to the docks south of downtown. The former route, leading into Providence Union Station, was planned to pass through a tunnel under Smith Hill, on which little if any construction was undertaken before cessation of work in Rhode Island.\n\nSome of the plans included a branch to Boston or a separate route to Boston from the Central Vermont, but they never reached the construction stage.\n\nAn official Massachusetts railroad map shows the entire right-of-way in the state as being of \"abandoned\" type, and of \"unknown\" ownership. Most of the grade is overgrown, rock cuts flooded, and embankments quarried out for their gravel. Many sections have passed into private ownership and have been built over by modern developments. Still, many of the old concrete bridge abutments are still visible.\n\nTwo sections of the right-of-way have been improved as a public trails open to non-motorized vehicles. The longest is a five-mile section in Sturbridge that is in the Westville Lake recreation area, it can be accessed at Westville Dam, Wallace Road, and River Street. The other 2-3/4 mile long section named the Grand Trunk Trail is in the Douglas State Forest, it crosses SW Main Street, the Streeter Trail, the Midstate Trail, Wallum Lake Road and the Southern New England Trunkline Trail.\n\nConfusingly, the Southern New England Trunkline Trail follows not the path of the SNE, but rather the abandoned right-of-way of the New York and New England Railroad.\n\n"}
{"id": "1813363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813363", "title": "List of minerals approved by IMA (S)", "text": "List of minerals approved by IMA (S)\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1813367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813367", "title": "Hart Pomerantz", "text": "Hart Pomerantz\n\nHart Pomerantz is a Canadian lawyer and television personality, best known for his collaboration with \"Saturday Night Live\" producer Lorne Michaels in \"The Hart and Lorne Terrific Hour\", and to Canadian audiences for his many appearances as a regular on \"This Is the Law\", where he brought a unique sense of irreverent humour to the show along with his legal knowledge. He also hosted the 1974 quiz show \"Double Up\" and the short-lived 1998 Prime talk show \"Grumps\".\n\nA graduate of the University of Toronto Law School, he currently resides in Toronto, Ontario. His late brother was Earl Pomerantz (February 4, 1945 – March 7, 2020) a writer, who spent almost the entirety of his career working in US television comedy.\n\n"}
{"id": "1813368", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813368", "title": "Campeonato Maranhense", "text": "Campeonato Maranhense\n\nThe Campeonato Maranhense is the football league of the state of Maranhão, Brazil.\n\nFirst Division 2014\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1813371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813371", "title": "Somerton and Frome (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Somerton and Frome (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nSomerton and Frome is a constituency represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament since 2015 by David Warburton of the Conservative Party.\n\n1983–1997: The District of Yeovil wards of Blackmoor Vale, Brue, Burrow Hill, Camelot, Cary, Curry Rivel, Islemoor, Ivelchester, Langport and Huish, Martock, Milborne Port, Northstone, Turn Hill, Wessex, and Wincanton, and the District of Mendip wards of Beacon, Beckington and Rode, Coleford, Creech, Frome Badcox, Frome Fromefield, Frome Keyford, Mells, Nordinton, Postlebury, Selwood and Berkley, Stratton, and Vale.\n\n1997–2010: The District of South Somerset wards of Blackmoor Vale, Brue, Burrow Hill, Camelot, Cary, Curry Rivel, Islemoor, Ivelchester, Langport and Huish, Martock, Milborne Port, Northstone, Turn Hill, Wessex, and Wincanton, and the District of Mendip wards of Beacon, Beckington and Rode, Coleford, Creech, Frome Badcox, Frome Fromefield, Frome Keyford, Frome Welshmill, Mells, Nordinton, Postlebury, Stratton, and Vale.\n\n2010–present: The District of South Somerset wards of Blackmoor Vale, Bruton, Burrow Hill, Camelot, Cary, Curry Rivel, Islemoor, Langport and Huish, Martock, Milborne Port, Northstone, Tower, Turn Hill, Wessex, and Wincanton, and the District of Mendip wards of Beacon, Beckington and Rode, Coleford, Creech, Frome Berkley Down, Frome Fromefield, Frome Keyford, Frome Park, Frome Welshmill, Mells, Nordinton, Postlebury, Stratton, and Vale.\n\nThe constituency was created in 1983 from parts of the seat of Wells. It covers the east of the district of Mendip and the north of the district of South Somerset.\n\nThis area has a mixed economy, including agriculture and, in November 2012, had below the national average proportion of jobseekers (3.8%) at 1.6% of the population.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1813378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813378", "title": "Zababa", "text": "Zababa\n\nZababa (Sumerian: 𒀭𒍝𒂷𒂷 za-ba-ba) (also Zamama) is a war god who was the tutelary deity of the city of Kish in ancient Mesopotamia. He is connected with the god Ninurta, and the symbol of Zababa − the eagle-headed staff − was often depicted next to Ninurta's symbol. Inanna and Baba are variously described as his wife. His sanctuary was the E-meteursag.\n\nSeveral ancient Mesopotamian kings were named in honor of Zababa, including Ur-Zababa of Kish (early patron of Sargon of Akkad, c. 2300 BCE) and Zababa-shuma-iddin (a 12th-century BCE Kassite king of Babylon).\n\nThe Hittites applied the name ZABABA to various war gods, using their Akkadian writing conventions. Among these gods were the Hattian Wurunkatte; the Hittite and Luwian Hašamili, Iyarri, and Zappana; and Hurrian Aštabi, Hešui, and Nubadig.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1813383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813383", "title": "List of minerals approved by IMA (U–V)", "text": "List of minerals approved by IMA (U–V)\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1813384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813384", "title": "Good Morning Canada", "text": "Good Morning Canada\n\nGood Morning Canada was a national weekend breakfast television show aired on the CTV Television Network in Canada from circa fall 2000 to early 2009. \n\nThe program was pre-taped during the week and aired twice each weekend, Saturday morning at 8 and Sunday morning at 7, with news inserts provided by \"CTV Newsnet\" (now known as \"CTV News Channel\"). The show's content consists mainly of feature segments originally produced for local CTV newscasts.\n\nThe show was always produced at one of the network's stations other than flagship CFTO Toronto, moving every three to six months. There was a single host at any one time, generally a personality from the then-current producing station.\n\nUnlike the weekend editions of American network morning shows, the program was separate from CTV's weekday morning program \"Canada AM\". In the early 1990s, the network carried a one-hour weekend program, \"Canada AM Weekend\", re-airing the show's best segments of the week. \"Good Morning Canada\" launched several years after \"Canada AM Weekend\" was cancelled and has no connection to the earlier program.\n\nDue to low ratings and network cutbacks, the show was discontinued. The last episode aired on February 1, 2009.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1813388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813388", "title": "Felix Hoppe-Seyler", "text": "Felix Hoppe-Seyler\n\nErnst Felix Immanuel Hoppe-Seyler (\"né\" Felix Hoppe; 26 December 1825 – 10 August 1895) was a German physiologist and chemist, and the principal founder of the disciplines of biochemistry and molecular biology.\n\nHoppe-Seyler was born in Freyburg an der Unstrut in the Province of Saxony. He originally trained to be a physician in Halle and Leipzig, and received his medical doctorate from Berlin in 1851. Afterwards, he was an assistant to Rudolf Virchow at the Pathological Institute in Berlin. Hoppe-Seyler preferred scientific research to medicine, and later held positions in anatomy, applied chemistry, and physiological chemistry in Greifswald, Tübingen and Strasbourg. At Strasbourg, he was head of the department of biochemistry, the only such institution in Germany at the time.\n\nHis work also led to advances in organic chemistry by his students and by immunologist Paul Ehrlich. Among his students and collaborators were Friedrich Miescher (1844–1895) and Nobel laureate Albrecht Kossel (1853–1927).\n\nHe was the son of the Freiburg superintendent (bishop) Ernst August Dankegott Hoppe. His mother died when he was six years old, and his father three years later. After he became an orphan, he lived for some time in the home of his older sister Klara and her husband, the Annaburg pastor Georg Seyler, a member of the noted Seyler family, a son of the pharmacist and Illuminati member Abel Seyler the Younger and a grandson of the theatre director Abel Seyler. He eventually entered the orphan asylum at Halle, where he attended the gymnasium. In 1864, he was formally adopted by Georg Seyler and added the Seyler name to his birth name.\n\nIn 1858, he married Agnes Franziska Maria Borstein, and they had one son, Georg Hoppe-Seyler, who became a professor of medicine in Kiel.\n\nFelix Hoppe-Seyler, a physiologist and chemist, became the principal founder of biochemistry. His text \"Physiological Chemistry\" became the standard text for this new branch of applied chemistry.\n\nHis numerous investigations include studies of blood, hemoglobin, pus, bile, milk, and urine. Hoppe-Seyler was the first scientist to describe the optical absorption spectrum of the red blood pigment and its two distinctive absorption bands. He also recognized the binding of oxygen to erythrocytes as a function of hemoglobin, which in turn creates the compound oxyhemoglobin. Hoppe-Seyler was able to obtain hemoglobin in crystalline form, and confirmed that it contained iron.\n\nHe became an elected member of the French Academy of Sciences, despite the unfavorable political terms between France and Germany at that time, and this helped him gain an international reputation as the keen promoter of science.\n\nHoppe-Seyler performed important studies of chlorophyll. He is also credited with the isolation of several different proteins (which he referred to as \"proteids\"). In addition, he was the first scientist to purify lecithin and establish its composition. In 1877, he founded the \"Zeitschrift für Physiologische Chemie\" (\"Journal for Physiological Chemistry\"), and was its editor until his death in 1895. He died in Wasserburg am Bodensee in the Kingdom of Bavaria.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1813389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813389", "title": "Luther Alexander Johnson", "text": "Luther Alexander Johnson\n\nLuther Alexander Johnson (October 29, 1875 – June 6, 1965) was a United States Congressman from the U.S. state of Texas\n\nLuther was born in Corsicana, Texas, where he attended the public schools. He received his L.L.B. in 1896 from Cumberland University in Lebanon, Tennessee, and was admitted to the Bar association the same year. He commenced practice in Corsicana and was attorney for Central Texas Grocery Company and The Royall Coffee Company.\n\nHe was a prosecuting attorney of Navarro County from 1898 to 1902 and district attorney of the thirteenth judicial district of Texas from 1904 to 1910.\n\nHe served as a delegate to the Democratic National Convention in 1916 and as chairman of the Democratic State convention in 1920. Johnson was elected as a Democrat to the Sixty-eighth and to the eleven succeeding Congresses and served from March 4, 1923, until his resignation on July 17, 1946.\n\nA confidential 1943 analysis of the House Foreign Affairs Committee by Isaiah Berlin for the British Foreign Office described Johnson as\n\nIn his legislative role Johnson was most famous for his part in the passage of the Radio Act of 1927, stating that\n\nJohnson was appointed by President Harry S. Truman to be a judge of the United States Tax Court, holding this office from July 1946 until his retirement in September 1956. He returned to Corsicana until his death there on June 6, 1965. He was interred in Oakwood Cemetery.\n\nLuther Alexander Johnson married Turner Read on July 19, 1899. The couple had two children. Mr. Johnson became a ruling Elder in the Westminster Presbyterian Church (USA), where the couple had lifelong membership.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1813391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813391", "title": "Buddy Dyer", "text": "Buddy Dyer\n\nJohn Hugh \"Buddy\" Dyer (born August 7, 1958) is the 32nd and current mayor of Orlando, Florida, first elected in 2003. He is a member of the Florida Democratic Party. Previously he represented Orlando in the Florida State Senate for ten years, including three years when he was the Senate Democratic leader.\n\nDyer was born in 1958 in Orlando. He grew up in nearby Kissimmee, graduating from Osceola High School. He began his political career after serving as an attorney and lawyer following his graduations from Brown University and the University of Florida College of Law.\n\nDyer's first run for political office was for Kissimmee City Council, which he lost. In 1992 for Florida's State Senate district 14, which consisted of Orlando and Sanford, Florida. Dyer had two Democratic primary opponents, Candice \"Candy\" Crawford (sister of former Florida Agriculture Commissioner Bob Crawford and political pundit Craig Crawford) and Tim Adams, a local business owner. Dyer won the primary, but failed to get the 50% needed to avoid a runoff. Dyer received 44% of the vote, while Crawford received 39%. Adams received 17% and was eliminated. The runoff between Dyer and Crawford was concentrated in Orlando's African-American communities. Dyer received the support of many of the local churches as well as the endorsement of Tim Adams and Dotti Wynn (loser of the district's Republican primary), while Crawford relied on State Representative Alzo Reddick. Dyer won the runoff 54% to 44%. He continued on to the general election where he faced Republican Steve DeMino which he won with 56% of the vote.\n\nHe was subsequently re-elected in 1996 and 2000, serving a total of ten years in the State Senate, where he was State Senate Democratic leader for three years. In 2002 he ran for the office of state attorney general, losing to then-Republican (later Democrat) Charlie Crist.\n\nDyer was elected the 32nd mayor of Orlando on February 25, 2003, in a special election after the previous mayor, Glenda Hood, was appointed Florida's Secretary of State. He was re-elected in 2004 in a regular election, narrowly avoiding a runoff with challenger Ken Mulvaney. He won re-election again on January 29, 2008, receiving 61% of the vote over challenger Mulvaney. Buddy Dyer was once again re-elected mayor in November 2015 with 62.5% of the vote for his fourth full term in office. \n\nFollowing the 2004 election, Mulvaney alleged election fraud by Dyer. An investigation into the matter by the Florida Department of Law Enforcement led a grand jury to bring charges against the mayor, his campaign manager, and an election consultant for allegedly paying someone to gather absentee ballots in Orlando's African American community. Such payments are illegal under Florida law. In March 2005, Dyer was suspended by Governor Jeb Bush in accordance with the Florida Constitution. In April 2005, the charges were dismissed and he was reinstated as mayor.\n\nIn his years as mayor of Orlando, Buddy Dyer claims progress in realizing his vision for Orlando as a \"world-class city.\" According to his re-election campaign materials, he led Orlando out of a financial crisis and made public safety a top priority. He attracted state-of-the-art health care facilities and created a regional medical area at Lake Nona, and has worked to improve all of the city's neighborhoods. During his term, Orlando has had three consecutive years of employment growth and a 2.2 percent decline in unemployment.\n\nDyer advocated a new performing arts center for Orlando and a new arena for the Orlando Magic. He worked with then-Orange County Mayor Rich Crotty to get approval for using 1.1 billion of the county's Tourist Development Tax money, collected as a surcharge on hotel rooms, to fund construction of a new arena, a new performing arts center and large-scale renovations of the Citrus Bowl. The measure received final approvals on both the city and county levels in August 2007. Later that month, local hotelier Harris Rosen launched a drive to get initiatives on the ballot to allow citizens to vote on whether they wanted public money spent on these projects.\n\nMayor Dyer has attracted criticism from homeless advocates due to his support for an Orlando ordinance (passed in July 2006) that requires permits for \"large group feedings\" in downtown parks. The Orlando group of Food Not Bombs sued Dyer and the City of Orlando over the ordinance in federal court. The court ruled in September 2008 that the ordinance was unconstitutional because it violated the group's First Amendment rights, and the city has appealed this ruling to the U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals. Many critics of Dyer's support of the ban on \"large group feedings\" claim Dyer backs the ban to appease the wealthy residents of the Lake Eola neighborhood.\n\nHe is a member of the Mayors Against Illegal Guns Coalition.\n\nDyer was one of nine mayors who established July 15 as Social Media Giving Day in 2013, encouraging citizens to support charities via social media.\n\nIn 2017, he declared July 5 as Impact Wrestling Day in the city of Orlando after joining Orlando nightclub shooting survivor Tony Marrero at an Impact event.\n\nDyer and his wife Karen Caudill got married in 1989. Together they have two sons: Trey, who graduated from American University in 2012, and Drew. Dyer filed for divorce with his wife Karen on September 1, 2017, the divorce document stated the marriage was \"irretrievably broken\".\n\nThe \"Orlando Sentinel\" named Dyer \"The most powerful person in Central Florida\" for 2008.\n\n"}
{"id": "1813394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813394", "title": "Horse mackerel", "text": "Horse mackerel\n\nHorse mackerel is a vague vernacular term for a range of species of fish throughout the English-speaking world. It is commonly applied to pelagic fishes, especially of the Carangidae (jack mackerels and scads) family, most commonly those of the genera \"Trachurus\" or \"Caranx\". Species known as \"horse mackerel\" in one English dialect or another include:\n\n"}
{"id": "1813398", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813398", "title": "Time served", "text": "Time served\n\nIn criminal law, \"time served\" describes a sentence where the defendant is credited immediately after the guilty verdict with the time spent in remand awaiting trial. The time is usually subtracted from the sentence, with only the balance being served after the verdict. For example, the final verdict in the trial of Louise Woodward was that she was guilty, and her sentence was \"time served\" (in her case, 279 days). In this case, this meant she was immediately released.\n\nIn some cases, time served may earn credit at a different rate than regular incarceration. For example, the defendant may get credit for a multiple of the amount of time spent in remand, for example, two times, so that two months in remand gives four months' credit toward the sentence.\n"}
{"id": "1813406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813406", "title": "Pirwa", "text": "Pirwa\n\nPirwa (or Peruwa) is a Hittite deity whose nature is poorly understood. They are sometimes referred to as \"queen\", though archaeologists believe they were a male god.\n\nThe name may derive from the Hittite \"peruna\" or \"cliff\", and the Pirwa worship seems to have involved horses and horse-related symbols. The deity may also be a reflex of the Proto-Indo-European deity Perkwunos.\n\n"}
{"id": "1813417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813417", "title": "Brochure", "text": "Brochure\n\nA brochure is an informative paper document (often also used for advertising) that can be folded into a template, pamphlet, or leaflet. A brochure can also be a set of related unfolded papers put into a pocket folder or packet. Brochures are promotional documents, primarily used to introduce a company, organization, products or services and inform prospective customers or members of the public of the benefits. \n\nBrochures are distributed in many different ways: as newspaper inserts, handed out personally, by mail or placed in brochure racks in high traffic locations especially in tourist precincts. They may be considered as grey literature. \nA brochure is usually folded and only includes summary information that is promotional in character.\n\nA brochure is usually folded and only includes summary information that is promotional in character. A booklet is usually several sheets of paper with a cardstock cover and bound with staples, string or plastic binding. In contrast, a single piece of unfolded paper is usually called an insert, flyer or bulletin.\n\nBrochures available in electronic format are called \"e-brochures\". This format has the added benefit of unlimited distribution and cost savings when compared to traditional paper brochures.\n\nThe most common types of single-sheet brochures are the \"bi-fold\" (a single sheet printed on both sides and folded into halves) and the \"tri-fold\" (the same, but folded into thirds). A bi-fold brochure results in four panels (two panels on each side), while a tri-fold results in six panels (three panels on each side).\n\nOther brochure fold arrangements are possible: the accordion or \"z-fold\" method, the \"c-fold\" method, etc. Larger sheets, such as those with detailed maps or expansive photo spreads, are folded into four, five, or six panels. When two card fascia are affixed to the outer panels of the z-folded brochure.\n\nBooklet brochures are made of multiple sheets most often saddle-stitched, stapled on the creased edge, or perfect bound like a paperback book, and result in eight or more panels.\n\nBrochures are often printed using four-color process on thick, glossy paper to give an impression of quality. Businesses may print small quantities of brochures on a computer printer or on a digital printer, but offset printing turns out higher quantities at a lower cost per unit.\n\nCompared with a flyer, a brochure usually uses higher-quality paper, more color, and is folded.\n\n"}
{"id": "1813418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813418", "title": "New York City Council", "text": "New York City Council\n\nThe New York City Council is the lawmaking body of the City of New York. It has 51 members from 51 council districts throughout the five boroughs.\n\nThe council serves as a check against the mayor in a mayor-council government model. The council monitors the performance of city agencies and makes land use decisions as well as legislating on a variety of other issues. The city council also has sole responsibility for approving the city budget. Members elected in or after the year 2010 are limited to two consecutive terms in office, but may run again after a four-year respite; however, members elected prior to 2010 may seek third consecutive terms.\n\nThe head of the city council is called the Speaker. The current Speaker is Corey Johnson, a Democrat. The Speaker sets the agenda and presides at meetings of the city council. Proposed legislation is submitted through the Speaker's Office. There are 48 Democratic council members led by Majority Leader Laurie Cumbo. The three Republican council members are led by Minority Leader Steven Matteo.\n\nThe council has 35 committees with oversight of various functions of the city government. Each council member sits on at least three standing, select or subcommittees (listed below). The standing committees meet at least once per month. The Speaker of the council, the majority leader, and the minority leader are all \"ex officio\" members of every committee.\n\nCouncil members are elected every four years, except for two consecutive two-year terms every twenty years to allow for redistricting between the terms due to the national census (starting in 2001 and 2003 for the 2000 Census and again in 2021 and 2023 for the 2020 Census).\n\nCouncil Members currently receive $148,500 a year in base salary, which the council increased from $112,500 in early 2016. Members receive no additional compensation for serving as a committee chairperson or other officer under the new salary raise.\n\nThe \"New York City Charter\" is the fundamental law of the government of New York City including the council. The \"New York City Administrative Code\" is the codification of the laws promulgated by the council and is composed of 29 titles. The regulations promulgated by city agencies pursuant to law are contained in the \"Rules of the City of New York\" in 71 titles.\n\nA local law has a status equivalent with a law enacted by the legislature (subject to certain exceptions and restrictions), and is superior to the older forms of municipal legislation such as ordinances, resolutions, rules and regulations. Each local government must designate a newspaper of notice to publish or describe its laws. The secretary of state is responsible for publishing local laws as a supplement to the \"Laws of New York\" (the \"session laws\" of the state), but they have not done so in recent years. The \"New York City Charter\", the \"New York City Administrative Code\", and the \"Rules of the City of New York\" are published online by the New York Legal Publishing Corp. under contract with the New York City Law Department.\n\nThe history of the New York City Council can be traced to Dutch Colonial times when New York City was known as New Amsterdam. On February 2, 1653, the town of New Amsterdam, founded on the southern tip of Manhattan Island in 1625, was incorporated as a city under a charter issued by the Dutch West India Company. A Council of Legislators sat as the local lawmaking body and as a court of inferior jurisdiction. During the 18th and 19th centuries the local legislature was called the Common Council and then the Board of Aldermen. In 1898 the amalgamation charter of the City of Greater New York renamed and revamped the council and added a New York City Board of Estimate with certain administrative and financial powers. After a number of changes through the ensuing years, the present Council was born in 1938 under a new charter which instituted the council as the sole legislative body and the New York City Board of Estimate as the chief administrative body. Certain functions of the council, however, remained subject to the approval of the board.\n\nA system of proportional representation known as Single Transferable Vote seated a 26-member Council in 1938 to serve two-year terms. The term was extended to four years in 1945 to coincide with the term of the mayor. Proportional representation was abolished in 1947, largely from pressure from Democrats, who played on fears of Communist council members being elected (two already had). It was replaced by a system of electing one Council Member from each New York State Senate district within the city. The Charter also provided for the election of two Council Members-at-large from each of the five boroughs. In June 1983, however, a federal court ruled that the 10 at-large seats violated the United States Constitution's one-person, one-vote mandate.\n\nIn 1989, the Supreme Court ruled that the Board of Estimate also violated the one-person, one-vote mandate. In response, the new Charter abolished the Board of Estimate and provided for the redrawing of the council district lines to increase minority representation on the council. It also increased the number of Council Members from 35 to 51. The council was then granted full power over the municipal budget, as well as authority over zoning, land use and franchises. In 1993 the New York City Council voted to rename the position of president of the city council to the Public Advocate. As the presiding officer, the Public Advocate was an ex officio member of all committees in the council, and in that capacity had the right to introduce and co-sponsor legislation. However the city charter revision of 2002 transferred the duties of presiding officer from the Public Advocate to the Council Speaker; the Public Advocate remains a non-voting member of the council.\n\nA two-term limit was imposed on city council members and citywide elected officials in a 1993 referendum. The movement to introduce term limits was led by Ronald Lauder, a cosmetics heir. In 1996, voters turned down a council proposal to extend term limits. Lauder spent $4 million on the two referenda.\n\nHowever, in 2008, under pressure from Mayor Michael Bloomberg (who, like many Council members, was facing the end of his two-term limit at that time), the council voted 29–22 to extend the limit to three terms; the council also defeated (by a vote of 22–28, with one abstention) a proposal to submit the issue to public referendum.\n\nLegal challenges to the extension of term limits failed in federal court. The original decision by Judge Charles Sifton of the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York (Long Island, Brooklyn, Queens and Staten Island) was upheld by a three-judge panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit (Vermont, Connecticut and New York), and a proposal in the New York State Legislature to override the extension was not passed.\n\nVoters voted to reinstate the two-term limit law in another referendum in 2010. However, according to \"The New York Times\", incumbent members of the city council who were elected prior to the 2010 referendum “will still be allowed to run for a third term. People in office before 2010 were eligible for three terms.”\n\n\nThrough several changes in title and duties, this person has been, together with the Mayor and City Comptroller, one of the three municipal officers directly elected by all of the city's voters, and also the person who—when the elected mayor resigns, dies, or otherwise loses the ability to serve—becomes acting mayor until the next special or regular election.\n\nUntil 1989, these three officers, together with the five borough presidents, constituted the New York City Board of Estimate. Political campaigns have traditionally tried to balance their candidates for these three offices to appeal as wide a range of the city's political, geographical, social, ethnic and religious constituencies as possible (and, when possible, to both genders).\n\na. Became acting mayor upon the death or resignation of the elected mayor.<br>\nb. Later won election as mayor.<br>\nc. Unsuccessful candidate for mayor in a subsequent general election.<br>\nd. Not elected by citywide popular vote (Ardolph Kline had been elected deputy president by his fellow aldermen, and then succeeded as president upon Mitchel's resignation).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1813426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813426", "title": "Palace of Culture", "text": "Palace of Culture\n\nPalace of Culture (, , \"wénhuà gōng\") or House of Culture (\"dom kultury\") was the name for major club-houses in the Soviet Union and the rest of the Eastern bloc. \n\nIt was an establishment for all kinds of recreational activities and hobbies: sports, collecting, arts, etc.; the Palace of Culture was designed to have room for multiple uses. A typical Palace contained one or several cinema halls, concert hall(s), dance studios (folk dance, ballet, ballroom dance), various do-it-yourself hobby groups, amateur-radio groups, amateur-theatre studios, amateur musical studios and bands, \"lectoriums\" (lecture halls), and many more. Groups were also subdivided by age of participants, from children to retirees. A public library may sometimes have been housed in the Palace of Culture as well. All hobby groups were free of charge until most recent times, when many hobbies with less official recognition were housed based on \"self-repayment\". A Palace of Culture was sometimes called a \"club\", but this did not mean that it was membership-based.\n\nIn official rhetoric, all these were supposed to aid the \"cultural leisure\" of Soviet workers and children and to fight \"cultureless leisure\", such as drinking and hooliganism.\n\nPalaces or Houses of Culture were introduced in the early days of the Soviet Union, inheriting the role that was earlier fulfilled by so-called \"People's Houses\". Below is an excerpt from John Dewey's \"Impressions of Soviet Russia and the revolutionary world\" (1929).\n\nThe other impression I would record came from a non-official visit to a House of Popular Culture. Here was a fine new building in the factory quarter, surrounded by recreation grounds, provided with one large theater, four smaller assembly halls, fifty rooms for club meetings, recreation and games, headquarters for trade unions, costing two million dollars, frequented daily—or rather, nightly—by five thousand persons as a daily average. Built and controlled, perhaps, by the government? No, but by the voluntary efforts of the trade unions, who tax themselves two percent of their wages to afford their collective life these facilities. The House is staffed and managed by its own elected officers. The contrast with the comparative inactivity of our own working men and with the quasi-philanthropic quality of similar enterprises in my own country left a painful impression. It is true that this House—there is already another similar one in Leningrad—has no intrinsic and necessary connection with communistic theory and practice. The like of it might exist in any large modern industrial center. But there is the fact that the like of it does not exist in the other and more highly developed industrial centers. There it is in Leningrad, as it is not there in Chicago or New York...\nThere were two basic categories of Palaces of Culture: those owned by the state and those owned by the enterprise. Every town, kolkhoz and sovkhoz had a central Palace or House of Culture. Major industrial enterprises had their own Palaces of Culture, managed by the corresponding trade unions. \n\nPalaces of Culture served another important purpose: they housed local congresses and conferences of the regional divisions of the Communist Party, the Komsomol, etc.\n\nIn smaller rural settlements similar establishments of lesser scope were known as \"clubs\", with main activities there being dance nights and cinema. \n\nIn 1988 there were over 137,000 club establishments in the Soviet Union.\n\nIn the People's Republic of China, the best-known, and most centrally located, Palace of Culture is perhaps the \"Workers' Palace of Culture\" located in the former Imperial Ancestral Temple just outside the Forbidden City in Beijing.\n\nThe concept and the name of a \"House of Culture\" also appears in (for example) France (), Belgium and Quebec.\n\nMost Palaces of Culture continue to exist after the dissolution of the Soviet Union, but their status, especially the financial one, changed significantly, for various reasons.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1813428", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813428", "title": "Thomas Steen", "text": "Thomas Steen\n\nAnders Thomas Steen (born June 8, 1960) is a Swedish former professional ice hockey player and coach. Steen is the former city councillor for the Winnipeg ward of Elmwood-East Kildonan. Steen played professional ice hockey in the Elitserien, National Hockey League and Deutsche Eishockey Liga. In his time in the NHL, he spent the entirety of his career with the original Winnipeg Jets.\n\nSteen was born in Grums, Sweden, and began his career with Grums IK (1975–76). He later played for the elite Leksands IF (1976–80) and Färjestads BK (1980–81). Swedish coach Tommy Sandlin described him as \"a particularly intelligent and competent player\". He was drafted by the Sudbury Wolves of the Ontario Hockey League in 1978, but never played for the team.\n\nSteen was drafted by the National Hockey League's Winnipeg Jets in 1979, as their fifth-round choice. He was signed two years later by John Ferguson, and went on to become one of the most prolific players in the team's history. Steen played a total of 950 regular season NHL games, scoring 264 goals and receiving 553 assists. In a 1987 interview, he said that his focus was on creating plays for others rather than scoring goals himself. A 1990 poll of NHL players named him as the league's most underrated player. Steen continued to play for the Swedish national team in World Championship games throughout his NHL career, and won silver medals at the 1981 World Championship in Gothenburg and the 1986 World Championship in Moscow.\n\nThere were discussions about Steen being traded to the Toronto Maple Leafs in early 1994, but these ultimately came to nothing. His record of playing fourteen seasons with only one team is unusual in modern North American professional sports. Steen retired in 1995, and his jersey number 25 was retired by the Jets. The number is still considered retired by the Jets' successor team, the Arizona Coyotes. A 2005 article in the \"National Post\" newspaper listed him as the second greatest player in the history of the Winnipeg Jets franchise, after Dale Hawerchuk. Unlike many professional hockey players, Steen was known throughout his career for his thoughtful responses to interview questions.\n\nSteen worked with Manitoba Entertainment Complex Inc. in 1994, when the group was attempting to find a new downtown arena for the Jets. Some players questioned his judgement in this matter: failed labour negotiations had led to NHL players being locked out, and some believed it was a conflict of interest for Steen to promote a project supported by management. Others supported Steen's decision, arguing that he was acting in the best interests of the team.\n\nHe came out of retirement in 1996, playing seven regular season and playoff games for the Frankfurt Lions of the Deutsche Eishockey Liga at the end of their season. He then played three seasons for Eisbären Berlin before retiring again in 1999. Coincidentally, he announced his retirement on the same day as Wayne Gretzky. In January 2001, he was named European pro scout for the Minnesota Wild. He moved back to Winnipeg in the mid-2000s at the behest of his employer, and scouted talent in the American Hockey League.\n\nShortly after losing a 2008 election in Manitoba (see below), Steen returned to Sweden as an assistant coach for Modo Hockey of the Elitserien. Steen, however, later did return to Winnipeg and won a seat on the city council.\n\nOne of Steen's sons, Alexander Steen, is also a professional hockey player currently playing for the St. Louis Blues, playing left wing and serving as an alternate captain.\n\nSteen oversaw charity golf tournaments during and after his hockey career, with some proceeds going to children's charities. In 1993, he helped set up an organization of five \"Junior Jets\" teams in Winnipeg for younger players. In 2006, Steen and his son Alexander established an annual golf tournament to raise money for the Children's Hospital Foundation of Manitoba.\n\nSteen and two partners purchased 50% ownership in the International Hockey League's Minnesota Moose team in 1996 and brought the franchise to Winnipeg the following year as the Manitoba Moose. He ultimately decided not to oversee the team in an ownership capacity and was appointed as director of player development. In 1997, he partnered with the team to create the Thomas Steen/Manitoba Moose Hockey School.\n\nIn 2006, Steen took part in a shareholder and creditor action against the directors of Maple Leaf Distillers and Protos International, seeking to have them repay $1.75 million invested over the last six years. The action alleged that the directors had unfairly disregarded the interests of shareholders and used company money for personal expenses. They denied the charges. Steen indicated that he felt betrayed by the directors, whom he previously considered to be personal friends. In March 2007, the presiding justice found in favour of the shareholders and creditors and ordered the directors to pay $875,000. The decision was upheld on appeal, and the Supreme Court of Canada later declined to review the case.\n\nMany of the same investors later sued the Astra Credit Union, alleging that it was part of a \"cheque-kiting\" scheme that allowed the aforementioned directors to access millions of dollars in unauthorized loans. Astra initially rejected the charges as without merit. Later, Astra launched a third-party claim against its former chief credit officer and the former directors of Maple Leaf Distillers.\n\nSteen donated an abstract painting/collage entitled \"Blood, Sweat, Tears, and A Lot of Love\" to a charity auction in Winnipeg in 2007.\n\nSteen indicated that he was considering a political career in January 2007, when he appeared at a news conference as a guest of federal Conservative cabinet minister Vic Toews. He later stood beside provincial Progressive Conservative leader Hugh McFadyen during the 2007 election, for an announcement that the PCs would bring NHL hockey back to Winnipeg if elected. The governing New Democrats described this promise as unrealistic, as did many in the local media. The New Democrats were returned with a majority government on election day. In a somewhat ironic twist, the NHL returned to Winnipeg in the final months of the NDP's 2007-11 term.\n\nSteen was a candidate for the Conservative Party of Canada in the 2008 federal election, losing to New Democrat Jim Maloway in the northeast Winnipeg riding of Elmwood—Transcona. His opponents argued that Steen, who lives in south Winnipeg, was unfamiliar with issues pertaining to the riding. He was also criticized for missing several debates, and for only reading from written briefings during a debate at Kildonan East Collegiate. One journalist, writing that Steen was \"by all accounts and appearances a lovely and honourable gentleman\", also noted that he was \"radically out of his depth, muzzled by his party and unfamiliar with the issues\".\n\nTwo years after that election (with a coaching stint in Sweden in the interim), on October 27, 2010, Steen won election to Winnipeg City Council, representing the Elmwood/East Kildonan ward, in the 2010 municipal election. He was defeated in the 2014 election by Jason Schreyer, the son of former Manitoba premier and Canadian governor general Ed Schreyer.\n\nIn May 2014, Steen was charged with assault and uttering threats in connection with an alleged domestic violence incident with a woman at a Winnipeg restaurant in May. Steen took a leave from city council and was suspended from his role with the Winnipeg Police Board while the investigation into the charges took place. He was defeated in his bid for reelection to Winnipeg city council in October later in the year.\n\nA condition put upon Steen in relation to those charges was a \"no contact\" order with relation to the alleged victim. Steen violated that condition in July 2014 and was briefly jailed as a result.\n\nIn October 2016 it was reported the charges were stayed in June of that year, meaning that though the Crown is no longer actively prosecuting the case charges can be brought back within one year if the Crown decides to pursue them again.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1813435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813435", "title": "Missile boat", "text": "Missile boat\n\nA missile boat or missile cutter is a small, fast warship armed with anti-ship missiles. Being smaller than other warships such as destroyers and frigates, missile boats are popular with nations interested in forming a navy at lower cost. They are similar in concept to the torpedo boats of World War II; in fact, the first missile boats were modified torpedo boats with the torpedo tubes replaced by missile tubes.\n\nThe doctrine behind the use of missile boats is based on the principle of mobility over defence and firepower. The advent of proper guided missile and electronic countermeasure technologies gave birth to the idea that warships could now be designed to outmaneuver their enemies and conceal themselves while carrying powerful weapons.\n\nPreviously, increasing the potency of naval artillery required larger projectiles, which required larger and heavier guns, which in turn called for larger ships to carry these guns and their ammunition and absorb their recoil. This trend culminated in the giant battleships of World War II. The ability to deploy anti-ship guided self-propelled warheads from small, maneuverable platforms partially negated the advantages provided by the earlier and larger warships.\n\nMissile boats, when equipped with sophisticated anti-ship missiles, and especially when used in a swarm, can pose a significant threat to even the largest of capital ships, and do so at much greater ranges than is possible with torpedoes.\n\nMissile boats were invented and first manufactured by the Soviet Union in the 1950s, beginning with \"Project 183R\" which developed into the Komar-class missile boat, mounting two P-15 Termit (Styx) anti-ship missiles in box launchers and a twin 25mm autocannon on a wooden hull displacing Four diesel engines gave the Komars and a top speed of around . Endurance was limited to at and the vessels had fuel and supplies for only five days at sea. 112 Komar-class vessels were produced, while over 400 examples were built of the following Osa-class missile boat, with a significant number of both types being sold to pro-Soviet nations.\n\nBeing relatively small and constructed of wood, the Komar-class boats had a very small radar cross-section. Its sophisticated radar enabled the missile boat, with its low radar reflectivity, to detect a larger enemy ship before the latter was aware of its presence, fire its missiles and speed away.\n\nSoviet naval architects had designed them with these characteristics to give the small boats this advantage against much larger American naval ships should they attempt to attack the Russian coast. The boats were designed for coastal operations, with limited endurance.\n\nThe first combat use of missile boats was by the Egyptian Navy operating Komar-class craft, which fired four Styx missiles (hitting with three) at the Israeli destroyer \"Eilat\" on October 21, 1967, shortly after the Six-Day War, sinking the \"Eilat\" with 47 dead and over a hundred wounded out of a crew of 199.\nThe Soviet-built boats prompted a NATO response, which became more intense after the sinking of \"Eilat\". The Germans and French worked together to produce their own missile boat, resulting in the La Combattante class. These were built on a hull with of MTU diesel engines driving four shafts; a common weapon loadout would have four MM-38 Exocet missiles in two sets of two box launchers, in line and offset to the right and left with a 76 mm gun forward and 40 mm twin guns aft. Built until 1974, a total of 68 Combattante IIs were launched. The design was immediately followed by the Combattante III (1975 - 1990) which added to hull length but kept the same armament (plus two twin 30mm autocannon), 43 of this type were produced. Several other countries produced their own versions of the \"Combattante\", notably Israel with the \"Sa'ar\" 3 and the \"Sa'ar\" 4 variants.\n\nDuring the Indo-Pakistani War of 1971, the Indian Navy's 25th Missile Boat Squadron, operating Vidyut-class missile boats, played a crucial role in the devastating Indian attacks on Karachi in December 1971. The two key operations in which these vessels played an active role were Operation Trident and Operation Python. Indian attacks destroyed half of the Pakistani Navy and most of Pakistan's naval fuel reserves in the port's fuel storage tanks which cleared the way for the decisive victory of the Indian Armed Forces.\n\nThe world's first naval battles between missile-armed warships occurred between Israeli \"Sa'ar\" 3-class and \"Sa'ar\" 4-class missile boats (using indigenously-developed Gabriel missiles), and Syrian Komar- and Osa-class missile boats during the October 1973 Yom Kippur War. The first of these engagements became known as the Battle of Latakia. During this and later battles, some fifty \"Gabriels\" and a similar number of \"Styx\" missiles were fired; seven Syrian ships were sunk, with zero Israeli losses.\n\nAt the Battle of Bubiyan in 1991 Iraqi missile boats were destroyed by British air-to-surface missiles.\n\nLater designs, such as the German and Finnish are equipped with surface-to-air missiles and countermeasures.\n\nThe size of missile boats has increased, with some designs now at corvette size, 800 tonnes including a helicopter, giving them extended modes of operation. In April 1996 during Israel's Operation Grapes of Wrath, IDF naval forces used Sa'ar 4 and boats to shell the Lebanese coast with 76 mm fire, in conjunction with artillery and air attacks.\n\nIran and North Korea have some of the largest numbers of missile boats in operation today. North Korea alone operates more than 300, while Iran has been developing \"swarm boats\" to be used as harassing vessels in the heavily contested littoral waters of the Persian Gulf. To counter the threat, the US Navy has been developing an ASUW Littoral Defensive Anti-Surface Warfare doctrine, along with vessels such as the littoral combat ship.\n\nThe People's Liberation Army Navy of China also has a large fleet of missile craft, which include Type 22 missile boats, Type 037IG Houxin-class missile boats and Type 037II Houjian-class missile boats, with a total of 109 units.\n\n"}
{"id": "1813437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813437", "title": "Aerosol paint", "text": "Aerosol paint\n\nAerosol paint (also called spray paint) is a type of paint that comes in a sealed pressurized container and is released in an aerosol spray when a valve button is depressed. A form of spray painting, aerosol paint leaves a smooth, evenly coated surface, unlike many traditional rolled or brushed paints. Standard sized cans are lightweight, portable, inexpensive, and easy to store. Aerosol primer can be applied directly to bare metal and many plastics.\n\nIn 1949, Edward H. Seymour, of Sycamore, IL, added paint to existing spray can technology at his wife Bonnie's suggestion. It was initially designed to demonstrate an aluminum paint he developed. His patent was awarded in 1951.\n\nMost aerosol paints also have a metal, marble, glass or plastic ball called a pea inside of the can, which is used to mix the paint when the can is shaken.\n\nAcrylic-based craft primers and vinyl dye can be used on plastics like models or miniatures.\n\nMost brands include a wide variety of paints, including primers, heat, and traffic resistant enamels, gloss and matte finishes, metallic colors, and textured paints for home decor.\n\nAerosol paint is useful for quick, semi-permanent marking on construction and surveying sites. Inverted cans for street, utility or field marking can be used upside-down with an extension pole. APWA (American Public Works Association) has standardized colors for utility and excavation markings. Hiking trails can also be marked with aerosol paint trail blazes.\n\nSmall to medium-sized repairs to automobile bodywork can be completed by enthusiasts at home using aerosol paint, though to paint an entire vehicle in this manner would be difficult and expensive. The main disadvantages, compared to a professional spray gun, include the limited quality provided by the built-in nozzle and the lack of infrared baking after applying the paint, which indicates that the paint could take several months to obtain its final hardness.\n\nFor a good finish, it is essential to prepare the surface well, sanding to provide a key and thoroughly degreasing with naphtha (panel wipe). Areas not to be painted should be masked, although for repair work it is important to avoid spraying a full coat right up to the masking tape, which will leave a hard line; it is better to fade the new paint into the existing paint, especially if the color is difficult to match. The flow of paint should be started or stopped on the masked area rather than over the area intended to be painted, as aerosols often discharge \"blobs\" of paint under these conditions. Coats should be built up lightly enough to avoid runs, but a \"dry\" finish must be avoided by spraying too thinly or from too far away. The optimum distance between the can and workpiece is around one foot (30cm). Most automotive paints will require a clear lacquer after the color coat, normally 24 hours later. The color coat should be well matted down with very fine abrasive paper before applying the lacquer.\n\nThere are also a variety of tools to assist in the dispersal of paints including spray paint handles and attachments to equalize the pressure and secure hand grip. Other customized technology such as sprayprinter can be attached to aerosol cans to partially automate the process of spray painting and allow for images to be created in a manner similar to printing.\n\nSpeed, portability, and permanence also make aerosol paint a common graffiti medium. In the late 1970s, street graffiti writers' signatures and murals became more elaborate and a unique style developed as a factor of the aerosol medium and the speed required for illicit work. Many now recognize graffiti and street art as a unique art form and specifically manufactured aerosol paints are made for the graffiti artist.\n\nGraffiti artist paints tend to be more expensive, but have a wider selection of rich colors, are thicker and less likely to drip. They are produced in standard high-pressure cans for fast, thick coverage and lower pressure cans for more control and flexibility. Most art brand paints have two or three mixing peas in a can. A wide array of actuators or caps are available, from standard \"skinny\" caps to wider \"fat\" caps, as well as caps that control the softness or crispness of the spray. Calligraphy caps create fan spray instead of the standard round.\n\nWhen aerosol paint is used, care must be taken to cover or mask areas where the paint is not wanted. A stencil can be used to protect a surface except for the specific shape that is to be painted. Stencils can be purchased as movable letters, ordered as professionally cut logos, or hand-cut by artists.\n\nStencils can be used multiple times for recognition and consistency. Official stencils can be used to quickly and clearly label objects, vehicles or locations. Graffiti writers can use stencils to quickly mark in busy places or leave recognizable tags over a large area. Stencil artists often use multiple colors, or create elaborate stencils that are works of art in themselves.\n\nUnauthorized graffiti is considered to be vandalism in most jurisdictions mainly because the work or display is done without permission of the property owner. The term 'aerosol art' is commonly used for displaying art form 'with' permission of the property owner. The UK and many cities in the United States prohibit the sale of aerosol paint to minors as part of graffiti abatement programs. While major industrial and consumer aerosol paint companies like Krylon and Rust-Oleum actively participate in anti-graffiti programs, art-brand companies are often supportive of writers and graffiti culture, though most do not endorse illegal writing.\n\nLike many household chemicals and aerosols, aerosol paint vapor and propellant can be misused as an inhalant.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1813449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813449", "title": "Selardi", "text": "Selardi\n\nSelardi (Sielardi) is a lunar goddess of Urartu. She is counterpart to the Babylonian moon god, Sin. Nicholas Adontz theorizes that \"Sielardi\" name is derived from \"Siela,\" meaning \"woman\" or \"sister,\" and \"Ardi\" which means \"sun god\" in Armenian. He states that in the ancient east, the Moon had been considered the sister of the Sun, rather than his consort.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1813450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813450", "title": "Rube Bressler", "text": "Rube Bressler\n\nRaymond Bloom \"Rube\" Bressler (October 23, 1894 – November 7, 1966) was an American left-handed pitcher in Major League Baseball for the Philadelphia Athletics from 1914 to 1916 and Cincinnati Reds from 1917 to 1920, before being converted to an outfielder and first baseman for Cincinnati from 1918 to 1927, the Brooklyn Robins from 1928 to 1931 and the Philadelphia Phillies and St. Louis Cardinals in his final year of 1931. The first two teams he played for made it to a World Series, the 1914 Philadelphia Athletics lost to the miracle Boston Braves, while the 1919 Cincinnati Reds won against the scandal-tainted Chicago White Sox.\n\nBressler was born in Coder, Pennsylvania and grew up in nearby Flemington. He played for a company team at Renovo, Pennsylvania where he worked in a railroad shop before being recruited by Earle Mack, son of Connie Mack after beating Earle's All-Stars in a local game in 1912.\n\nThe following year, Bressler pitched for Harrisburg of the Tri-State League and, the year after that, was brought to the Philadelphia club as the newest player at the end of the famous 1910–1914 dynasty. Bressler was assigned to room with future Hall of Fame pitcher Chief Bender when he made his big league debut April 24, 1914. He posted a respectable 10-4 record and 1.77 ERA for the 1914 American League champions, before dropping to a 4-17 record with a 5.20 ERA the following year. By 1916, he dropped to 0-2 with a 6.60 ERA and was sent down to the minor leagues.\n\nBut with America's entry into World War I and a shortage of qualified professional baseball players, Cincinnati of the National League brought him back. His 8-5 record and 2.46 ERA in 1918 earned him two more seasons with the club as a pitcher. He finished his pitching career in 1920 with a lifetime record of 26-32, and a 3.40 ERA\n\nThough Bressler's career as a pitcher was short-lived, he would go on to play more than a decade as an outfielder and first baseman. In his first season as a position player in 1918, Bressler appeared in only three games off the pitcher's mound. He split the next two seasons before it became apparent he would serve the team better as a slick-fielding, good-hitting position player than as an injury-prone pitcher. From 1921 onward, Bressler became a full-time position player, never pitching another game in the major leagues. He finished his career with 1170 base hits, 32 home runs, 586 RBI and a .301 batting average.\n\nBressler is one of six players since 1900 in the major leagues who started their careers as pitchers and ended up as position players while totaling more than 50 games pitched and 50 games played at other positions. The others include Babe Ruth,\nSmoky Joe Wood, Johnny Cooney, Reb Russell, and Rick Ankiel. Lefty O'Doul was also famous for having switched from pitcher to position player, however, he pitched in only 34 games for 77 total innings pitched with just two decisions.\n\nIn the final years of his life, Bressler was interviewed by writer Lawrence Ritter for Ritter's 1966 baseball classic \"The Glory of Their Times\". Bressler died in Cincinnati at age 72.\n\nBressler was inducted into the Cincinnati Reds Hall of Fame in 1963.\n"}
{"id": "1813451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813451", "title": "John Olsen (Australian artist)", "text": "John Olsen (Australian artist)\n\nJohn Henry Olsen, AO, OBE (born 21 January 1928) is an Australian artist and winner of the 2005 Archibald Prize. Olsen's primary subject of work is landscape.\n\nJohn Olsen was born in Newcastle on 21 January 1928. He moved to Bondi Beach with his family in 1935 and began a lifelong fascination with Sydney Harbour. He attended St Joseph's College, Hunters Hill. After leaving school in 1943, he went to the Datillo Rubbo Art School in 1947 and from 1950 to 1953 studied at the Julian Ashton Art School in Sydney, and Auburn School from 1950 to 1956. In 1957, a Sydney art critic raised funds for John Olsen to go to England and paint. He studied printmaking in Paris in 1957, followed by two years in Spain. Olsen returned to Sydney in 1960. He wanted to represent Australian culture in such a way that the world would see the diversity in the changing outback seasons.\n\nIn 1968, Olsen set up and ran the Bakery Art School and in 1970, he was commissioned by the Sir William Dobell Art Foundation to paint a large mural entitled, 'Salute to Five Bells', which was inspired by Kenneth Slessor's poem and completed in 1973. Olsen's work has been marked by a deep engagement with the Australian landscape and he has lived for long periods in different parts of the country and travelled widely in it. He has served on the boards of the Art Gallery of New South Wales and the National Art Gallery.\n\nHis artworks include the \"Lake Eyre and frogs\" series. He is a regular visitor to Lake Eyre, in 2011 he had been invited to be a member of the party in which Paul Lockyer and two other ABC employees died in a helicopter crash at the lake, but declined due to ill-health. He later offered a painting and a poem in memory of those killed. Andrew Taylor, \"I was meant to be on that helicopter, says Olsen\", \"Sydney Morning Herald\", 21 Aug 2011. Retrieved 8 December 2017 .\n\nMore recent works include \"Golden Summer, Clarendon\". One of Olsen's most successful murals, \"Salute to Five Bells\", is currently in the Sydney Opera House. Although he has been labelled as an abstract artist, Olsen rejects this label, stating, \"I have never painted an abstract painting in my life\". He describes his work as \"an exploration of the totality of landscape\". Olsen published his diaries, under the title 'Drawn From Life', in 1997. Olsen's book \"My Salute to Five Bells\" which contains the artist's thoughts, diary entries and his original drawing for the work, was published by the National Library of Australiain 2015.\n\nOlsen is well known for his paintings of frogs and for including frogs in many of his works. In 2013, he began work on his largest painting since \"Salute to Five Bells\". Eight metres by six metres wide, on eight panels, \"The King Sun\" was hung in Collins Square in the Melbourne Docklands. The work depicts a brilliant Australian sun (including three frogs). Olsen and his work on the mural are the subject of 2014 documentary \"The King Sun\", directed by New Zealander Tony Williams.\n\nIn Australia's New Year's Honours of 1977, Olsen was appointed an Officer of the Order of the British Empire, in 1993 he was awarded an Australian Creative Fellowship and in the Australia Day Honours of 2001 he was appointed an Officer of the Order of Australia. He was awarded the Centenary Medal on 1 January 2001. He was also awarded the Wynne Prize in both 1969 and 1985. In 1989, Olsen won the Sulman (the Sir John Sulman Prize) with his work \"Don Quixote enters the Inn\"\n\nHe won the 2005 Archibald Prize for his portrait \"Self portrait Janus Faced\".\n\nOlsen's works have been exhibited at numerous solo and group shows across Australia and Internationally. \nSelect solo exhibitions:\n\n\nJohn Olsen's work is represented in all Australian state gallery collections (the Art Gallery of New South Wales, 182 works), the National Gallery of Australia, Canberra and regional galleries Australia wide. He is also represented in institutional, corporate and private collections in Australasia, United Kingdom, Europe and the United States of America.\n\nOlsen has described his approach to painting as \"taking the line for a holiday:\" He says: \"It's really an interrogatory line, you know: I'm asking a question. The line says 'Move me this way,' and I say, 'Yes? Really? Okay. If you want to go this way, okay.' \" He waves his hand gently. \"Then it says, 'No, little bit that way.' 'All right, I'll move you that way.' 'No.' 'All right, all right. We'll participate.' \"\n\nThe Olsen family lives near Bowral, New South Wales. His son Tim is a gallery owner in Sydney and his daughter Louise designs jewellery. Daughter Jane Olsen (with first wife Mary Flower), died in 2009.\n\n"}
{"id": "1813461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813461", "title": "Trinity Evangelical Divinity School", "text": "Trinity Evangelical Divinity School\n\nTrinity Evangelical Divinity School (TEDS) is an academic divinity school founded in 1897 and located north of Chicago, Illinois. TEDS is one of the largest seminaries in the world, enrolling more than 1,200 graduate students in professional and academic programs, including more than 150 in its PhD programs. The most popular degree at the school, the Master of Divinity (MDiv) degree, prepares pastors, educators, and missionaries for many kinds of service. The school also offers a range of more focused Master of Arts programs in counseling ministries, Christian thought, New Testament, Old Testament, and other disciplines.\n\nTEDS is affiliated with the Evangelical Free Church of America and is accredited by the Association of Theological Schools in the United States and Canada. It publishes the \"Trinity Journal\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1813464", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813464", "title": "La Bonne Chanson (poetry collection)", "text": "La Bonne Chanson (poetry collection)\n\nLa Bonne Chanson is a collection of poems written by Paul Verlaine from the winter of 1869 to the spring of 1870. Twenty-one poems belong to this group, and are addressed to sixteen-year-old Mathilde Mauté de Fleurville, whom he married in the same year (1870).\n\nThe poems are a proclamation of love, using very direct terms, and some references to nature.\n\nBetween 1892 and 1894, Gabriel Fauré arranged nine of these poems as a song cycle under the same name.\n\n"}
{"id": "1813466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813466", "title": "Confucius Lives Next Door", "text": "Confucius Lives Next Door\n\nConfucius Lives Next Door: What Living in the East Teaches Us About Living in the West is a 1999 book by Washington Post writer T.R. Reid.\nReid, a sometime commentator for National Public Radio, lived with his wife, son, and two daughters in Japan for five years as Tokyo bureau chief for the Washington Post. This book draws on his experiences during that time. He argues that the Asian Dragon economies have built modern industrial societies featuring the safest streets, the best schools, and the most stable families in the world. Reid credits this success to the ethical values of Chinese philosopher Confucius, who taught the value of \"ren\" (harmony) and the Ethic of Reciprocity.\n\nUpon arriving, he reported, he and his family found themselves \"smack in the middle of a fundamental shift in world history—a basic realignment of global stature and political power... we found ourselves in the Asian century.\" They found that Asian societies dealt more successfully with issues of crime, drug use, family, education, and equality of wealth.\n\nThe reviews welcomed the book but carried on a discussion of the issues behind it. Kirkus Reviews found it a \"readable if superficial analysis of the moral basis of east Asian society.\" In the \"Washington Post\", China scholar Judith Shapiro drew on her own experience living in China to discuss Reid's emphasis on social values over individualism. Frank Gibney, a long-time Japan Hand, lauded Reid for focusing on Confucian values, but thought his view too rosy: Japan is a land where \"conformity is inbred -- no need to be enforced -- and where the ethics of social relationships become a binding morality from which there is almost no escape.\" The Japanese electorate, Gibney held, \"sold its collective soul to a corrupt, faction-ridden political party, backed by a decadent father-knows-best bureaucracy that has yet to grasp the virtues of real free enterprise.\" Another reviewer wrote that the \"so-called social miracle is a glossy caricature—psychologically, culturally,and statistically—of the very people he hopes to defend.\" It would be nice to think, he continued, that Japanese society \"thrives on an immutable culture built on loyalty, civility, and the value of a stable, hardworking community.\" But Reid neglects political structure and historical situation; the Japan that he saw was produced by war, the American Occupation, and postwar consensus building, not Confucius.\n\n"}
{"id": "1813471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813471", "title": "Mikunigaoka Station", "text": "Mikunigaoka Station\n\nMikunigaoka Station may refer to:\n"}
{"id": "1813475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813475", "title": "Ḫaldi", "text": "Ḫaldi\n\nḪaldi (\"Ḫaldi\", also known as Khaldi) was one of the three chief deities of Urartu. He was a warrior god to whom the kings of Urartu would pray for victories in battle. Ḫaldi was portrayed as a man with or without wings, standing on a lion.\n\nHis principle shrine was at Ardini (Muṣaṣir). The temples dedicated to Khaldi were adorned with weapons such as swords, spears, bows and arrows, and shields hung from the walls and were sometimes known as \"the house of weapons\".\nAccording to Urartologist Paul Zimansky, Haldi was not a native Urartian god but apparently an obscure Akkadian deity (which explains the location of the main temple of worship for Haldi in Musasir, believed to be near modern Rawandiz, Iraq). Haldi was not initially worshipped by Urartians, at least as their chief god, as his cult does not appear to have been introduced until the reign of Ishpuini.\nAccording to Michael C. Astour, Haldi could be etymologically related to the Hurrian word \"heldi\", meaning \"high\". An alternate theory postulates that the name could be of Indo-European (possibly Helleno-Armenian) or Old Armenian origin, meaning \"sun god\" (compare with Greek \"Helios\" and Latin \"Sol\"). The Urartian Kings used to erect steles dedicated to Ḫaldi in which they inscribed the successes of theimilitary campaigns, the buildings built, and also the agricultural activities that took place during their reign. \n\nAlong with Ḫaldi of Ardini, the other two chief deities of Urartu were Theispas of Kumenu, and Shivini of Tushpa. Of all the gods of the Urartian pantheon, the most inscriptions are dedicated to Ḫaldi. His wife was the goddess Arubani and/or the goddess Bagvarti.\n\nHe was the primary god of the most prominent group of Urartian tribes, which eventually evolved into the Armenian nation. Some sources claim that the legendary patriarch and founder of the Armenians, Hayk, is derived from Ḫaldi, but other theories about the etymology of \"Hayk\" are more widely accepted.\n\n"}
{"id": "1813481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813481", "title": "Theispas", "text": "Theispas\n\nTheispas (also known as Teisheba or Teišeba) of Kumenu was the Araratian (Urartian) weather-god, notably the god of storms and thunder. He was also sometimes the god of war. He formed part of a triad along with Khaldi and Shivini. The ancient Araratian cities of Teyseba and Teishebaini were named after Theispas. He is a counterpart to the Assyrian god Adad, the Vedic God Indra, and the Hurrian god, Teshub. He was often depicted as a man standing on a bull, holding a handful of thunderbolts. His wife was the goddess Huba, who was the counterpart of the Hurrian goddess Hebat.\n"}
{"id": "1813485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813485", "title": "Yer-sub", "text": "Yer-sub\n\nYer-sub (Yar-Sub also Yer-Su or Yir-sub) are a category of nature spirits in the Turkic-Mongolian belief of Tengriism. The name means \"Earth–Water\" in Turkic languages.\n\nThe word Yer-Sub had two meanings. One was the name of natural spirits, the other the visible world, the Native Land.\n\nTengrist people believe that Yer-sub spirits exist in trees, lakes, mountains, stones, and sometimes in a whole empire, and that Yer-sub spirits are the forgotten souls of ancestors. They think that, if the name of an ancestor is not mentioned any more, that ancestor's soul will become object in the nature.\n\nTengrists are required to be careful and respectful towards nature, so as not to disturb the Yer-sub spirits. They also must be thankful to them, when they take something from nature.\n\nDemons and spirits served important functions in pre-industrial Turkic societies and were considered to be very interactive in the lives and domains of humans. Some spirits were benevolent and could be helpful in human tasks, others were harmful and often destructive. These spirits were also considered to be derived from ancestors or certain deceased humans. Such spirits could appear at will in various forms including that of different animals or human form. Some of these spirits could also participate in malevolent activity to harm humans, such as drowning humans, obstructing the harvest, or sucking the blood of livestock and sometimes humans. Hence, the Turkic peoples were obliged to appease these spirits to prevent the spirits from their potential for erratic and destructive behaviour.\n\nYar-Sub or Yer-Su is mentioned together with Gök-Tengri in the Orkhon Inscriptions, under the name \"Yduk\" (Turkish: Iduk, Idık \"Sacred\") Yar-Sub (Earth-Water). One of the records states: \"Turkic Tengri and Turkic sacred Yer-Sub said in Heaven: \"Let not the Turkic people vanish! Let them be a Nation!\" The ancient Turkic people called the visible world occupied by their people Yar-Sub (Earth-Water) or Middle Earth, emphasising its central location.\n\nIn Turkic community, each boy (clan) and tribe had their territory, the boundaries of which outlined their world. This Yar-Sub (Land-Water or Earth-Aqua) was theirs, beyond which were others possessions. Their own limited Yer-Sub (Yer-Su) was not just a settled space but also a smaller version of the world. For each boy (clan), their land was the centre of the world and a focus of order and harmony. \"Native land\" was not only a geographical concept, but was also a space that could be emotionally perceived by man. It was the land of the Clan and of the Ata-Ana (Ancestors) and could never be sold or given away.\n\nThe dominant role in determining the fate of people and ulus (nations) belonged to Gök-Tengri, but natural forces yielded to Yar-Sub. Sometimes on Tengri's command, Yer-Sub punished people for their sins. But they are generally considered benevolent. To appease Yar-Sub, sacrifices were made every spring in preparation for the cattle-breeding season and before planting crops. With the disintegration of the ancient Turkic states, the rituals to Yer-Sub (Yer-Su) began to take on distinct local forms. As in ancient ages, they were conducted in the upper rivulets and on the shores of lakes. White rams were sacrificed and hung on a tree, under which a prayer was conducted. After the ritual, participants feasted and exchanged gifts.\n\n"}
{"id": "1813497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813497", "title": "Don Jail", "text": "Don Jail\n\nThe Don Jail was a jail in Toronto, Ontario, Canada, located to the east of the Don River, on Gerrard Street East in the Riverdale neighbourhood. The original building was completed in 1864 and was renovated in recent years (reopening in 2013) to serve as the administrative wing of Bridgepoint Active Healthcare, a rehabilitation hospital located adjacent to the jail. Prior to its adaptive reuse as part of a healthcare facility, the building was used as a provincial jail for remanded offenders and was officially known as the Toronto Jail. The jail originally had a capacity of 184 inmates, and it was separated into an east wing for the men and a west wing for the women.\n\nThe 'Don Gaol' was built between 1858 and 1864, with a new wing being built in the 1950s. Designed by architect William Thomas in 1852, it was constructed with a distinctive facade in the Italianate style, with a pedimented central pavilion and vermiculated columns flanking the main entrance portico. It is one of the oldest pre-Confederation structures that remains intact in Toronto.\n\nThe Don Jail is the only jail to have been officially designated the Toronto Jail, yet has rarely been referred to as such outside official circles, with the facility more commonly known as the Don Jail or 'The Don'. The first King Street Gaol, the second King Street Gaol and the Toronto Central Prison were all colloquially known as the Toronto Jail, and the Don Jail likely earned its unofficial name to distinguish it from these other facilities.\n\nIn 1952, the jail was the subject of the first ever television news report on the CBC Television English-language network when the Boyd Gang, a notorious group of bank robbers, broke out of the facility for the second time. The news anchor was future \"Bonanza\" star Lorne Greene.\nAn adjoining, modernist east wing was built in 1958. When the original Don Jail building ceased to be used for housing offenders in 1977, the east wing remained in operation as the Toronto Jail (retaining the \"Don Jail\" moniker). The east wing continued to serve as a jail until December 31, 2013, when a new facility, the Toronto South Detention Centre, was completed on the site of the former Mimico Correctional Centre.\n\nOriginally designed as a reform prison, and once dubbed the \"Palace for Prisoners\" because of its progressive approach to the wellness and living conditions of inmates, the reputation of the Don Jail soured over the years due to overcrowding and other factors. The jail's bad reputation contributed to the closure of the historic jail building in 1977.\n\nThe east wing was constructed to house 276 prisoners, but at the end of its service its \"rated capacity\" was 550, and its average prisoner load was about 620. In addition, as a \"short-term\" jail, it was not designed with adequate visitor facilities, exercise areas, telephones, lawyer meeting rooms, showers, or even laundry facilities. However, the average stay was 30–90 days, and many prisoners were kept there for months. It was often overburdened by a large number of arrested persons awaiting arraignment.\n\nCourts took judicial notice of the deplorable conditions at the Don Jail. In \"R. v. Smith\" [2003] O.J. No. 1782, Justice Richard Schneider set a precedent in this regard by crediting persons serving time in the facility awaiting trial with three days against their sentence for every day spent in the facility, as opposed to the \"2-for-1\" pre-trial custody credit typically given during criminal sentencing in Canada at the time. In \"R. v. Permesar\" [2003] O.J. No. 5420, the same judge noted that the prison failed to meet the Standard Minimum Rules for the Treatment of Prisoners set by the United Nations. These conditions were also brought to light by a controversial article appearing in the \"Toronto Star\" after journalist Linda Diebel was smuggled into the prison by Dave Levac, a sympathetic Ontario MPP. Mr. Levac faced censure by the Integrity Commissioner for bringing in the reporter, whom he led Jail officials to believe was a member of his staff, as part of his entourage.\n\nBefore capital punishment was abolished in Canada, the Toronto Jail was the site of a number of hangings. Starting with the execution of John Boyd in January 1908, hangings at the jail took place in an indoor chamber, which was a converted washroom, at the northeast corner of the old building. Previously, condemned men had been hanged on an outdoor scaffold in the jail yard. The indoor facility was seen as an improvement because outdoor executions were quasi-public (at the hanging of Fred Lee Rice in 1905, crowds had lined surrounding rooftops to see something of the spectacle) and because the condemned didn’t have to walk as far. \n\nThe best-known Canadian hangmen, such as John Radclive, Arthur Ellis and Camille Blanchard, hanged men at the Toronto Jail. The Toronto-based hangman Samuel Edwards, who worked during the Great Depression, carried out his first execution there in July 1931.\n\nTwenty-six men were hanged on the jail’s indoor gallows. The jail saw three double hangings: Roy Hotrum and William McFadden in August 1921; Leonard Jackson and Steven Suchan in December 1952; Ronald Turpin and Arthur Lucas on 11 December 1962. Turpin and Lucas had each been convicted in separate murders, and their executions were Canada's last before capital punishment was abolished.\n\nIn 2007, human remains were found on the jail's grounds during an archaeological assessment.\n\nThe Don Jail has long shared its site with a hospital. The original House of Refuge was built in 1860 on the same property as a home for \"vagrants, the dissolute, and for idiots\". The House of Refuge became the Riverdale Isolation Hospital in 1875 during a smallpox epidemic, and later evolved into a hospital for those with chronic ailments and/or needing rehabilitation.\n\nWhen the newly named Bridgepoint Health demolished the 1950s-era Riverdale Hospital building to replace it with a new 10-storey facility, the historic Don Jail building was extensively renovated to serve as the administrative wing for the hospital, a process which included the removal of \"150 years worth of grime\" from the exterior. About 20 per cent of the former jail’s heritage interior was preserved, including the centre block’s half-octagonal rotunda featuring clerestory windows, as well as original iron railings and balconies supported by griffin and serpent cast-iron brackets. The punishment and death row cells, and the former gallows tower (where an outline of the timber framing remains on the interior walls), were also preserved, to remain behind closed doors except for occasions such as Doors Open.\n\nIn 2008, the City of Toronto's heritage preservation staff and some Councillors wanted Bridgepoint Health to retain the steel bars on all of the old jail's windows. Fearing that the barred windows were incompatible with the hospital's objectives of openness and well-being, Bridgepoint Health was able to convince City Council to only require that grilles be maintained on the windows not serving patient rooms or staff offices.\n\nThe east wing was formally decommissioned on January 6, 2014, at which point it too was transferred to Bridgepoint Health and demolished in March and April of that same year. The site of the former east wing will become landscaped open space and will potentially be used for a future expansion of the hospital facilities.\n\nThe grounds of the former jail are being landscaped into a city park to be named Hubbard Park after William Peyton Hubbard. The former Don Jail Roadway has been extended and renamed Jack Layton Way after Jack Layton, the late leader of the New Democratic Party of Canada and former Member of Parliament for the area.\n\nThe prison and hospital also serve as the location of the fictional Dyad institute in the Canadian TV show \"Orphan Black\". The rotunda of the jail was also used as a set for The Cell Block bar in the movie \"Cocktail\" (1988).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1813499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813499", "title": "Christina McCall", "text": "Christina McCall\n\nChristina McCall (29 January 1935 – 27 April 2005) was a Canadian political writer.\n\nMcCall studied English at the University of Toronto then spent the next 20 years as a journalist at \"The Globe and Mail\", \"Saturday Night\" and \"Maclean's\" and as a senior editor at \"Chatelaine\", as a senior political writer and author. She later worked with, and eventually married (in 1959 and separated before 1977), Peter C. Newman. She focused on book writing in the 1980s. She had done much writing about the late Prime Minister of Canada Pierre Trudeau, and published a two volume book entitled \"Trudeau and Our Times\" which she co-authored with then husband Stephen Clarkson (m. 1978). The first volume, \"The Magnificent Obsession\", won a 1990 Governor General's Award.\n\nShe died at the age of 70 at the Providence Healthcare Centre after a long illness. She was survived by Clarkson and three children—Ashley McCall, her daughter with Newman, and Kyra Clarkson and Blaise Clarkson, Clarkson's children from his first marriage to Adrienne Clarkson.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1813508", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813508", "title": "Act II (popcorn)", "text": "Act II (popcorn)\n\nAct II is a brand of microwave popcorn in North America that is ostensibly based on the look and taste of movie theater popcorn. It is currently made and distributed by Conagra Brands. Act II was preceded in the popcorn market by Act I, an early microwave popcorn that had to be stored in the refrigerator due to its real butter content. Act I was introduced in 1981. In 1984, Act II, a shelf stable microwave popcorn was released, becoming the first mass-marketed microwave popcorn.\n\nAct II was manufactured by the Golden Valley Microwave Foods (frequently abbreviated as GVMF on the packaging) company of Edina, Minnesota. GVMF was later bought by ConAgra Foods in 1991.\n\nThe Edina facility was closed and manufacturing moved to other manufacturing plants in the USA and Mexico.\n\nThe popcorn bag used in Act II was invented by James Watkins, a former engineer for the Pillsbury Company in Minneapolis, MN and then Founder/President of Golden Valley Microwave Foods.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1813510", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813510", "title": "Ak Ana", "text": "Ak Ana\n\nAk Ana (Ağ Ana or Ak Ene), the \"White Mother\", is the primordial creator-goddess of Turkic people and the Khanty and Mansi peoples of Siberia. She is also known as the goddess of the water. She was the consort and daughter of Kayra Han.\n\nWater had been created earlier than Earth. Therefore, she was believed to be the elder sister of Earth. The beginning of the Earth emanated from Water. In ancient Turkish beliefs, Tangri (God) Kaira Khan is a pure, white goose that flies constantly over an endless expanse of water (time). But before Ak-Ana appears to urge Kaira Khan to create, he experiences a disturbance of his calm. From the bottom of the Water a \"sacred duck\" Lura lifted the sand, clay and silt, from which the Earth was created. Water was the initial state of everything in existence. Water evenly gave rise to both foreign and hostile elements. It was the possessor of spirits and the entrance into the other realm. The life, fertility and productivity of land depended on the Ak Ana.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1813514", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813514", "title": "Free-fall time", "text": "Free-fall time\n\nThe free-fall time is the characteristic time that would take a body to collapse under its own gravitational attraction, if no other forces existed to oppose the collapse. As such, it plays a fundamental role in setting the timescale for a wide variety of astrophysical processes—from star formation to helioseismology to supernovae—in which gravity plays a dominant role.\n\nIt is relatively simple to derive the free-fall time by applying nothing more than Kepler's Third Law of planetary motion to a degenerate elliptic orbit. Consider a point mass formula_1 at distance formula_2 from a point source of mass formula_3 which falls radially inward to it. Crucially, Kepler's Third Law depends only on the semi-major axis of the orbit, and does not depend on the eccentricity. A purely radial trajectory is an example of a degenerate ellipse with an eccentricity of 1 and semi-major axis formula_4. Therefore, the time it would take a body to fall inward, turn around, and return to its original position is the same as the period of a circular orbit of radius formula_4, or\n\nTo see that the semi-major axis is formula_4, we must examine properties of orbits as they become increasingly elliptical. Kepler's First Law states that an orbit is an ellipse with the center of mass as one focus. In the case of a very small mass falling toward a very large mass formula_3, the center of mass is within the larger mass. The focus of an ellipse is increasingly off-center with increasing ellipticity. In the limiting case of a degenerate ellipse with an eccentricity of 1, the orbit extends from the initial position of the infalling object (formula_2) to the point source of mass formula_3. In other words, the ellipse becomes a line of length formula_2. The semi-major axis is half the width of the ellipse along the long axis, which in the degenerate case becomes formula_4.\n\nIf the free-falling body completed a full orbit, it would begin at distance formula_2 from the point source mass formula_3, fall inward until it reached that point source, then turn around and journey back to its original position. In real systems, the point source mass isn't truly a point source and the infalling body eventually collides with some surface. Thus, it only completes half the orbit. But since the infalling part of the orbit is symmetric to the hypothetical outgoing portion of the orbit, we can simply divide the period of the full orbit by two to attain the free-fall time (the time along the infalling portion of the orbit).\n\nThis formula also follows from the formula for the falling time as a function of position.\n\nNote that formula_16 in the above equation, is the time for the mass to fall in a highly eccentric orbit, make a \"hairpin\" turn at the central mass at nearly zero radius distance, and then returns to R when it repeats the very sharp turn. This orbit corresponds to nearly linear motion back and from distance R to distance 0. As noted above, this orbit has only half as long a semimajor axis (R/2) as a circular orbit with radius R (where the semimajor axis is R), and thus the period for the shorter high-eccentricity \"orbit\" is that for one with an axis of R/2 and a total orbital pathlength of only twice the infall distance. Thus, by Kepler's third law, with half the semimajor axis radius it thus takes only (1/2) = (1/8) as long a time period, as the \"corresponding\" circular orbit that has a constant radius the same as the maximal radius of the eccentric orbit (which goes to essentially zero radius from the primary at its other extreme). \n\nThe time to traverse half the distance R, which is the infall time from R along an eccentric orbit, is the Kepler time for a circular orbit of R/2 (not R), which is (1/32) times the period P of the circular orbit at R. For example, the time for an object in the orbit of the Earth around the Sun, to fall into the Sun if it were suddenly stopped in orbit, would be formula_17, where P is one year. This is about 64.6 days.\n\nNow, consider a case where the mass formula_3 is not a point mass, but is distributed in a spherically-symmetric distribution about the center, with an average mass density of formula_19,\n\nwhere the volume of a sphere is:formula_21 \n\nLet us assume that the only force acting is gravity. Then, as first demonstrated by Newton, and can easily be demonstrated using the divergence theorem, the acceleration of gravity at any given distance formula_2 from the center of the sphere depends only upon the total mass contained within formula_2. The consequence of this result is that if one imagined breaking the sphere up into a series of concentric shells, each shell would collapse only subsequent to the shells interior to it, and no shells cross during collapse. As a result, the free-fall time of a massless particle at formula_2 can be expressed solely in terms of the total mass formula_3 interior to it. In terms of the average density interior to formula_2, the free-fall time is\n\nwhere the latter is in SI units.\n\nThis result is exactly the same as from the previous section when :formula_28.\n\nThe free-fall time is a very useful estimate of the relevant timescale for a number of astrophysical processes. To get a sense of its application, we may write\n\nHere we have estimated the numerical value for the free-fall time as roughly 35 minutes for a body of mean density 1 g/cm.\n\nFor an object falling from infinity in a capture orbit, the time it takes from a given position to fall to the central point mass is the same as the free-fall time, except for a constant formula_30 ≈ 0.42.\n\n"}
{"id": "1813522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813522", "title": "Harry Johnston (surveyor)", "text": "Harry Johnston (surveyor)\n\nHarry Frederick Johnston (1853 – June 1915) was Surveyor-General of Western Australia from 1896 to 1915.\n\nHarry Johnston was born in 1853, as a grandson of Marshall Clifton. He qualified as a surveyor. In 1884, he led a surveying expedition to the Kimberley region of Western Australia. A geologist who was attached to the group, Edward Hardman, was one of the first to discover gold in the area, and his report and maps became a valued resource in the subsequent Kimberley gold rush. In January 1885, Johnston made a claim for a reward offered by the Government of Western Australia for the discovery of the goldfield. He was widely criticised for what was seen by many as \"Mr. Johnston's attempt to filch the credit.\" However Johnston later stated \"All I wished was that my claim as a leader of the party and discoverer of new country should not be overlooked.\"\n\nHarry Johnston was appointed Surveyor-General in 1896, and held the position until his death. In June 1915, Johnston was rushed to hospital after an accident at his home in Greenmount. He died at hospital, and a bullet was found during the post-mortem. The coroner found that Johnston's death had occurred as a result of an accident during target practice.\n\nHarry Johnston's eldest son Edward Johnston had a long and distinguished political career; his second-youngest Edgar Johnston was a fighter pilot and flying ace in First World War and later one of the leaders in civil aviation in Australia.\n"}
{"id": "1813528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813528", "title": "Kudaai", "text": "Kudaai\n\nKıdaai Maqsin (Kudai Bakhsi) or Kudaai Bakhsilaan is a fire-demon in Yakut mythology. He was the first blacksmith and the originator of ironworking. He lives in an iron house surrounded by flames. \n\nK'daai is said to possess curative powers. In Yukut epics he heals the broken bones of heroes and tempers the souls of shamans.\n\nChyky, another famous Yakut smith, is not the same as K'daai. Chyky not only makes excellent weapons, but gives wise advice as well.\n\n"}
{"id": "1813530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813530", "title": "Kornblum oxidation", "text": "Kornblum oxidation\n\nThe Kornblum oxidation, named after Nathan Kornblum, is a chemical reaction of a primary halide with dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) to form an aldehyde. \n\nLike all DMSO-based oxidations, the Kornblum oxidation creates an alkoxysulfonium ion, which, in the presence of a base, such as triethylamine (EtN), will eliminate to form the desired aldehyde.\n\nThere are a number of variants and alternatives of the Kornblum oxidation. These alterations include using silver-assisted DMSO oxidations, the use of amine oxides as oxidants (occasionally called the Ganem oxidation), the use of pyridine-\"N\"-oxide or 2-picoline-\"N\"-oxide and a base, the use of metal nitrates, \"Sommelet oxidation\", and Kröhnke oxidation. The Kornblum oxidation can also be effected through the use of microwave assistance. Microwave assisted organic synthesis of the Kornblum oxidation has been shown to increase yield and decrease the reaction time through elimination of an unnecessary intermediate. The microwaves cause the solvent to reach its boiling point much sooner, possibly leading to evaporation of the dimethyl sulfide, therefore reducing any side products of the starting material reacting with the thioether. In usual heating, some aliphatic chlorides give low yields or no results at all, but with microwave assisted radiation, they can give intermediate yields.\n\n"}
{"id": "1813533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813533", "title": "Bugady Musun", "text": "Bugady Musun\n\nBugady Musun was a Siberian goddess particularly revered by the Evenki people. She was the patron of wildlife and the guardian of animals. She usually took the form of a tough older woman or a huge female elk or reindeer.\n\n"}
{"id": "1813534", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813534", "title": "Dohnányi family", "text": "Dohnányi family\n\nDohnányi is a Hungarian family name belonging to a notable family of politicians and musicians related to composer Ernő Dohnányi.\n\n"}
{"id": "1813537", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813537", "title": "POWER7", "text": "POWER7\n\nPOWER7 is a family of superscalar symmetric multiprocessors based on the Power ISA 2.06 instruction set architecture released in 2010 that succeeded the POWER6. POWER7 was developed by IBM at several sites including IBM's Rochester, MN; Austin, TX; Essex Junction, VT; T. J. Watson Research Center, NY; Bromont, QC and IBM Deutschland Research & Development GmbH, Böblingen, Germany laboratories. IBM announced servers based on POWER7 on 8 February 2010.\n\nIBM won a $244 million DARPA contract in November 2006 to develop a petascale supercomputer architecture before the end of 2010 in the HPCS project. The contract also states that the architecture shall be available commercially. IBM's proposal, PERCS (Productive, Easy-to-use, Reliable Computer System), which won them the contract, is based on the POWER7 processor, AIX operating system and General Parallel File System.\n\nOne feature that IBM and DARPA collaborated on is modifying the addressing and page table hardware to support global shared memory space for POWER7 clusters. This enables research scientists to program a cluster as if it were a single system, without using message passing. From a productivity standpoint, this is essential since some scientists are not conversant with MPI or other parallel programming techniques used in clusters.\n\nThe POWER7 superscalar symmetric multiprocessor architecture was a substantial evolution from the POWER6 design, focusing more on power efficiency through multiple cores and simultaneous multithreading (SMT). The POWER6 architecture was built from the ground up to maximize processor frequency at the cost of power efficiency. It achieved a remarkable 5 GHz. While the POWER6 features a dual-core processor, each capable of two-way simultaneous multithreading (SMT), the IBM POWER 7 processor has up to eight cores, and four threads per core, for a total capacity of 32 simultaneous threads.\n\nIBM stated at ISCA 29 that peak performance was achieved by high frequency designs with 10–20 FO4 delays per pipeline stage at the cost of power efficiency. However, the POWER6 binary floating-point unit achieves a \"6-cycle, 13-FO4 pipeline\".\nTherefore, the pipeline for the POWER7 CPU has been changed again, just as it was for the POWER5 and POWER6 designs. In some respects, this rework is similar to Intel's turn in 2005 that left the P4 7th-generation x86 microarchitecture.\n\nThe POWER7 superscalar symmetric multiprocessor is available with 4, 6, or 8 physical cores per microchip, in a 1 to 32-way design, with up to 1024 SMTs and a slightly different microarchitecture and interfaces for supporting extended/Sub-Specifications in reference to the Power ISA and/or different system architectures. For example, in the Supercomputing (HPC) System Power 775 it is packaged as a 32-way quad-chip-module (QCM) with 256 physical cores and 1024 SMTs. There is also a special TurboCore mode that can turn off half of the cores from an eight-core processor, but those 4 cores have access to all the memory controllers and L3 cache at increased clock speeds. This makes each core's performance higher which is important for workloads which require the fastest sequential performance at the cost of reduced parallel performance. TurboCore mode can reduce \"software costs in half for those applications that are licensed per core, while increasing per core performance from that software.\" The new IBM Power 780 scalable, high-end servers featuring the new TurboCore workload optimizing mode and delivering up to double performance per core of POWER6 based systems.\n\nEach core is capable of four-way simultaneous multithreading (SMT). The POWER7 has approximately 1.2 billion transistors and is 567 mm large fabricated on a 45 nm process. A notable difference from POWER6 is that the POWER7 executes instructions out-of-order instead of in-order. Despite the decrease in maximum frequency compared to POWER6 (4.25 GHz vs 5.0 GHz), each core has higher performance than the POWER6, while each processor has up to 4 times the number of cores.\n\nPOWER7 has these specifications:\n\n\"Each POWER7 processor core implements aggressive out-of-order (OoO) instruction\nexecution to drive high efficiency in the use of available execution paths. The POWER7\nprocessor has an Instruction Sequence Unit that is capable of dispatching up to six\ninstructions per cycle to a set of queues. Up to eight instructions per cycle can be issued to\nthe Instruction Execution units. The POWER7 processor has a set of twelve execution units\nas [described above]\"\n\nThis gives the following theoretical single precision (SP) performance figures (based on a 4.14 GHz 8 core implementation):\n\n\n4 64-bit SIMD units per core, and a 128-bit SIMD VMX unit per core, can do 12 Multiply-Adds per cycle, giving 24 SP FP ops per cycle. At 4.14 GHz, that gives 4.14 billion * 24 = 99.36 SP GFLOPS, and at 8 cores, 794.88 SP GFLOPS.\n\nPeak double precision (DP) performance is roughly half of peak SP performance.\n\nFor comparison, the latest microarchitecture from Intel, Haswell (that came out 3 years later than the POWER7!), can do 16 DP FLOPs or 32 SP FLOPs per cycle (8/16 DP/SP fused multiply-add spread across 2× 256-bit AVX2 FP vector units). At 3.4 GHz (i7-4770) this translates into 108.8 SP GFLOPS per core and 435.2 SP GFLOPS peak performance across the 4-core chip, giving roughly similar levels of performance per core, without taking into account the effects or benefits of Intel's Turbo Boost technology.\n\nThis theoretical peak performance comparison holds in practice too, with the POWER7 and the i7-4770 obtaining similar scores in the SPEC CPU2006 floating point benchmarks (single-threaded): 71.5 for POWER7 versus 74.0 for i7-4770.\n\nNotice that the POWER7 chip significantly outperformed (2×–5×) the i7 in some benchmarks (bwaves, cactusADM, lbm) while also being significantly slower (2x-3x) in most others. This is indicative of major architectural differences between the two chips / mainboards / memory systems etc.: they were designed with different workloads in mind.\n\nHowever, overall, in a very broad sense, one can say that the floating-point performance of the POWER7 is similar to that of the Haswell i7.\n\nIBM introduced the POWER7+ processor at the Hot Chips 24 conference in August 2012. It is an updated version with higher speeds, more cache and integrated accelerators. It is manufactured on a 32 nm fabrication process.\n\nThe first boxes to ship with the POWER7+ processors were IBM POWER 770 and 780 servers. The chips have up to 80 MB of L3 cache (10 MB/core), improved clock speeds (up to 4.4 GHz) and 20 LPARs per core.\n\n, the range of POWER7 systems includes \"Express\" models (710, 720, 730, 740 and 750), Enterprise models (770, 780 and 795) and High Performance computing models (755 and 775). Enterprise models differ in having Capacity on Demand capabilities. Maximum specifications are shown in the table below.\nIBM also offers 5 POWER7 based BladeCenters. Specifications are shown in the table below.\n\nThe following are supercomputer projects that use the POWER7 processor:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1813542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813542", "title": "Eskeri", "text": "Eskeri\n\nEskeri is the Tungus creator god. He retrieved magic mud from the primeval waters and used it to form the Earth.\n"}
{"id": "1813543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813543", "title": "Porur", "text": "Porur\n\nPorur is a residential neighbourhood of Chennai, India. It comes under Chennai Corporation (Ward no. 151 and 153 of Zone XI). \n\nPorur Lake is the major source of fresh water for suburban areas such as Iyyapanthangal, Moulivakkam and Mangadu. Porur is also known for the Ramachandra Medical College. Porur houses Mono-pulse Secondary Surveillance radar, one of the two radars in the city, which aids air-transport communication.\n\nPorur is located at 13.03° N and 80.16° E, and 52 feet (15 metres) above sea level. It is bounded on the east and south-east by the Pallavaram Hills.\n\nPorur was a little-known village administered as a part of the Saidapet taluk of the then Chengalpattu district in 1961. During that time, the Saidapet taluk adjoining Madras city, especially the Mount-Poonamallee Road, was famous for industries and chemical plants producing a variety of products.\n\nPorur village panchayat was upgraded to a Grade-I town panchayat on October 1, 1977. Later, it was upgraded to a selection grade town panchayat starting from February 24, 1982. The population of the town at the time of the 1981 census was 8,633.\n\n India census, Porur had a population of 28,782. Males constitute 52% of the population and females 48%. Porur has an average literacy rate of 79%, higher than the national average of 59.5%: male literacy is 83%, and female literacy is 76%. In Porur, 9% of the population is under 6 years of age. Population of Porur was 30,060 in 2011. The sex ratio was 938 females for every 1000 males. Porur is now administered by the Greater Chennai Corporation.\n"}
{"id": "1813546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813546", "title": "Bouy", "text": "Bouy\n\nBouy is a commune of the Marne department in northeastern France.\n\nBouy is twinned with the English village of Everton in Nottinghamshire, UK.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1813547", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813547", "title": "Martha Bullock", "text": "Martha Bullock\n\nMartha Marguerite Eccles Bullock (1851–1939) was an American pioneer woman who was the wife of Seth Bullock, one of the leading citizens in early Deadwood, South Dakota. She and Bullock were married in Salt Lake City, Utah, in 1874.\n\nMartha Bullock and daughter Margaret were sent to live with her parents in Michigan in 1876 when Bullock first left for Deadwood, then a wild lawless frontier town and no place for a family; after the town had become more orderly, largely as a result of the efforts of Bullock himself as sheriff, they joined her husband in Deadwood. She became a leading member of local society and excellently managed their household. They subsequently had another daughter, Florence, and a son, Stanley.\n\nMartha Bullock appeared as a supporting character in the HBO television series \"Deadwood\" and \"\" where she was portrayed by Anna Gunn. Several creative liberties were taken with the facts surrounding the real Martha Bullock for the show's character. Unlike her character in the TV series, she was not originally the widow of Bullock's brother, but is reported to have been his childhood sweetheart ; and similarly, rather than having a son by Bullock's brother, she and Bullock actually had a daughter, Margaret, at the time of Bullock's departure for Deadwood.\n"}
{"id": "1813550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813550", "title": "Symphony of Psalms", "text": "Symphony of Psalms\n\nThe Symphony of Psalms is a three-movement choral symphony composed by Igor Stravinsky in 1930 during his neoclassical period. The work was commissioned by Serge Koussevitzky to celebrate the 50th anniversary of the Boston Symphony Orchestra. The symphony derives its name from the use of Psalm texts in the choral parts.\n\nAccording to Stravinsky, the commission for the work came about from \"a routine suggestion\" from Koussevitzky, who was also Stravinsky's publisher, that he write something \"popular\" for orchestra without chorus. Stravinsky, however, insisted on the psalm-symphony idea, which he had had in mind for some time. The choice of Psalm 150, however, was in part because of the popularity of that text. The symphony was written in Nice, and Echarvines near Talloires, which was Stravinsky's summer home in those years. The three movements are performed without break, and the texts sung by the chorus are drawn from the Vulgate versions in Latin. Unlike many pieces composed for chorus and orchestra, Stravinsky said that “it is not a symphony in which I have included \"Psalms\" to be sung. On the contrary, it is the singing of the \"Psalms\" that I am symphonizing.”\n\nAlthough the piece was written for the Boston Symphony Orchestra, the world premiere was actually given in Brussels by the Société Philharmonique de Bruxelles on December 13, 1930, under the direction of Ernest Ansermet. The American premiere of the piece was given soon afterwards by Koussevitzky and the Boston Symphony Orchestra, with the chorus of the Cecilia Society (trained by Arthur Fiedler) on December 19, 1930. The first recording was made by Stravinsky himself with the Orchestre des Concerts Straram and the Alexis Vlassay Choir at the Théâtre des Champs-Élysées in Paris on February 17 and 18, 1931. \"The choir, throaty, full-blooded, darkly, inwardly passionate, sing with liturgical conviction and intensity in a memorable performance.\"\n\nLike many of Stravinsky's other works, including \"Petrushka\" and \"The Rite of Spring\", the \"Symphony of Psalms\" occasionally employs the octatonic scale (which alternates whole steps and half steps), the longest stretch being eleven bars between rehearsal numbers 4 and 6 in the first movement. Stravinsky stated that the root of the entire symphony is \"the sequences of two minor thirds joined by a major third... derived from the trumpet-harp motive at the beginning of the \"allegro\" in Psalm 150\".\n\nStravinsky portrays the religious nature of the text through his compositional techniques. He wrote substantial portions of the piece in fugal counterpoint, which was used widely in the church in the Renaissance and Baroque periods. He also uses the large chorus to create a ritual atmosphere like that of the Church.\n\nThe work is scored for the following instrumentation:\n\n\n\n\n\nIn the score preface, Stravinsky stated a preference for children's voices for the upper two choral parts.\n\nNotably, the score omits clarinets, violins, and violas.\n\nThe first movement of the \"Symphony of Psalms\" is marked \"Tempo = 92” and uses the text from Psalm 38, verses 13 and 14. This movement was finished on August 15, 1930, which is the feast of the Assumption in the Catholic Church and is written as a prelude to the second movement, a double fugue.\n\nThe movement is composed of flowing ostinato sections punctuated with E-minor block chords, in a voicing known as the \"Psalms chord\", which stop the constant motion.\n\n\\override Score.TimeSignature #'stencil = ##f\n</score>\n\nThe first ostinato section in measure 2, which is played in the oboe and bassoon, could be six notes from the octatonic scale starting C-D-E-F, etc., but incomplete sets such as this illustrate the controversial nature of the extent of its use. Stravinsky himself regarded this ostinato as \"the root idea of the whole symphony\", a four-note set consisting of a sequence of \"two minor thirds joined by a major third\", and stated that it initiated in the trumpet-harp motive at the beginning of the allegro section of the third movement, which was composed first.\n\n\\set Staff.midiInstrument = #\"oboe\" \\clef treble \\time 3/4 \\tempo 4 = 92 bes16\\p( d f aes g f d b aes' g d b | \\time 2/4 bes d f aes g f d b) } </score>\n\nIf a liturgical character is produced by the use of modal scales even before the chorus's entrance (in measures 12–13, the piano plays an F Dorian scale and in measures 15–16, the piano plays in the E Phrygian mode), it was not a conscious decision:\n\nThe presence of the chorus is used to create a church-like atmosphere in this piece as well as to appropriately set the Psalm. It enters with a minor-second motif, which is used both to emphasize the C/D octatonic scale and set the pleading text. The minor second motif in the chorus is continued throughout the movement. The use of the octatonic scale and the church modes pervade the sound of the movement, contributing to both the ritual feel of the piece and the plaintive setting of the text.\n\nThere are various ways of analyzing the tonal structure of the first movement. The most popular analysis is to view the movement in E minor, pronounced at the opening chord. The following arpeggios on B and G act as dominants to the other tonal centers in the next two movements, E and C respectively. However, the strong presence of G in the movement also points to another tonal center. The opening chord is orchestrated in such a way so that the third of E minor, G, is emphasized. Moreover, the movement concludes with a loud G-major chord, which becomes the dominant to C minor at the start of the second movement.\nThe second movement is a double fugue in C minor, and uses as text Psalm 39, verses 2, 3, and 4. The first fugue theme is based on the same four-note cell used in the first movement, and begins in the oboe in measure one:\n\nThe first entrance of the second theme starts in measure 29 in the soprano, followed by an entrance in the alto in measure 33 a fourth down:\n\nThe third and fourth entrances are in the tenor in measure 39 and bass in measure 43. Meanwhile, the first fugue theme can be heard in the bass instruments at the entrance of the soprano at measure 29. A stretto is heard in measure 52 based on the second fugal theme.\n\nAt measure 71, the voices sing in homophony on the text \"He hath put a new song in my mouth\". In the accompaniment, a variation of the first fugue theme is played in stretto. Finally, unison is heard in the voices in measure 84 on the text \"and shall put their trust in the Lord.\" This completes the gradual clarification of texture from counterpoint to unison.\n\nThe piece concludes with E as the tonal center. Some analyses interpret the E as being part of an inverted C-minor chord which creates a suitable transition into the third movement in C.\n\nThe third movement of the \"Symphony of Psalms\" alternates \"Tempo = 48\" and \"Tempo = 80\", and uses nearly the complete text of Psalm 150. Stravinsky wrote:\n\nThe triplets passage is:\n\nStravinsky continues by saying:\n\nThe second part of the slow opening introduction, setting the word \"Laudate Dominum\", was originally composed to the Old Slavonic words \"Gospodi Pomiluy\", and Stravinsky regarded this as his personal prayer to the Russian Ecumenical image of the Infant Christ with the scepter and the Globe.\n\nWhen writing music for Sergei Eisenstein's film \"Alexander Nevsky\", Prokofiev needed a Latin text to characterise the invading Teutonic knights. The text appears in Prokofiev's cantata, based on the film score, for the movements \"The Crusaders in Pskov\" and \"The Battle on the Ice\", and appears to have lifted words from the \"Symphony of Psalms\"—\"peregrinus\" from Stravinsky's first movement, \"expectavi\", and \"pedes meos\" from the second, and \"in cymbalis\" from the third.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1813551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813551", "title": "Mayin", "text": "Mayin\n\n\"Life-giver\"; a Tungus god of souls. Mayin was responsible for giving souls to newborn babies. When this does not happen the baby is soulless. The Tungus believe that those who live a good life would be housed in a heaven ruled by Mayin.\n\n\"Mayin\" meaning one who has the art & skill of enchantment is a Sanskrit word representing Hindu Gods 'Brahma' & 'Shiv'. 'Mayin' means - the Creator of the Universe.\n"}
