{"id": "1843670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843670", "title": "Lim Yew Hock", "text": "Lim Yew Hock\n\nHaji Omar Lim Yew Hock (born Lim Yew Hock (); 15 October 1914 – 30 November 1984) was a Singaporean and Malaysian politician of Chinese descent, who served as a Member of the Legislative Council and Assembly from 1948 to 1963, and the second Chief Minister of Singapore from 1956 to 1959.\n\nIn his early years, Lim worked as a clerk after he graduated from the Raffles Institution. Following the end of World War II, he joined the labour movement and later began his political career, joining the Progressive Party (PP) in 1947. In 1949, he became a member of the Labour Party. He founded the Labour Front (LF) with David Marshall. The Rendel Constitution was implemented in 1955 due to political instability and greater demands for independence in post-war Singapore. LF won the Legislative Assembly election, with Marshall as Chief Minister. Lim was appointed Minister for Labour and Welfare, and served as his deputy during his term of office.\n\nHowever, after talks with Government in London for self-rule failed, Marshall resigned as Chief Minister, and Lim took over. In order to gain trust from the British, Lim suppressed leftist movements. He led an all-party delegation to re-negotiate in talks for self-rule, eventually reaching an agreement with the British for a new constitution granting internal self-rule in 1959. However, Lim lost the support of the Chinese majority due to his oppression of pro-communists, especially the crackdown of teachers and students in Chinese schools for being left-wing. This led to the increase in support for the People's Action Party (PAP), then opposition, led by Lee Kuan Yew.\n\nLim's Singapore People's Alliance (SPA) was defeated by the PAP in the 1959 election, causing him to step down as Chief Minister, while Lee succeeded him as Prime Minister. After that, he was less involved in Singaporean politics and left the Assembly in 1963. He was appointed Malaysian High Commissioner in Australia by the then-Malaysian Prime Minister Tunku Abdul Rahman. However, he dropped out of Malaysian politics entirely shortly after his disappearance in 1966 during his term of office. Lim converted to Islam and led a low profile in Saudi Arabia in his late years.\n\nLim Yew Hock was born to Kimen Hokkiens in Singapore of the Straits Settlements on 15 October 1914. He part of third generation of overseas Chinese in Singapore, and son of Lim Teck Locke. Lim was the eldest son in his family and has a brother and two sisters. He attended English language schools; the Pearl's Hill School and Outram School from a young age. He obtained excellent results and received a four-year scholarship. He was admitted to the prestigious Raffles Institution and completed his secondary education in 1931.\n\nLim had planned to study Law in the United Kingdom (UK) upon graduation, and was ready to sit for Cambridge entrance examinations. However, his father's sudden death made it impossible. He was only 37 years old when he died, so the assets he left behind was put under supervision of Lim's uncle, while Lim was being mistreated. As the Great Depression greatly impacted Singapore's economy, he had to earn a living by provision of \"private tuition\" during his post- secondary education years to support his family, made up of his mother and younger siblings.\n\nSoon, he was employed as a junior clerk of the Imperial Chemical Industries in 1934, he transferred to Cold Storage as a junior clerk, which enabled him to earn a stable income. He was promoted as stenographer because of his outstanding performance in shorthand. During World War II, Japan launched the Pacific War in December 1941, leading to the fall of Singapore in February 1942. Lim lived on selling charcoal, until the end of Japanese occupation and Singapore's revert to British rule in 1945, when he returned to Cold Storage as private secretary.\n\nLim became involved in trade union activities right after the war. He resigned from Cold Storage and worked as full-time Secretary-General of the Singapore Clerical and Administrative Workers' Union (SCAWU). In March 1947, he became the first Singaporean to receive the British Council scholarship, to study local trade unions in Britain.\n\nWith his trade union background, Lim joined the newly formed Singapore Progressive Party (PP) led by Tan Chye Cheng to start off his political career. In fact, there was a major change in politics of post-war Singapore. On the one hand, there were increasing calls for independence, and on the other hand, the Straits Settlements was dissolved in 1946 by the British Government, while the Legislative Council of the Straits Settlements was restructured in 1948 as the Legislative Council of Singapore. In March 1948, Singapore held its first Legislative Council election to elect its six out of the 22 Councillors; Three out of five PP candidates won in the election. Lim did not participate in the election, but was appointed as an unofficial member in April, representing the trade union in the Council.\n\nLim left the PP in July 1949 and joined the Labour Party of Singapore (LP), whom Lim shared a similar political stand with. Later in June 1950, he was elected LP's Chairman, and was chosen to serve as Chairman of the SCAWU in July of the same year. Under support of the union, he contested in the Keppel constituency during the Legislative Council election held in April 1951, and was successfully elected as a Councillor. In this election, the number of elected seats increased from six to nine; The PP won six, LP won two, while the remaining seat was won by an independent candidate. In May 1951, Lim founded the Singapore Trades Union Congress (STUC) and appointed himself as Chairman. In the same year, he was funded by the United States Information Agency to study the labour movement in the US. However, LP's internal struggle among the different factions got worse and worse. The faction led by party's Secretary-General Peter M. Williams successfully coerced Lim to step down as Chairman. He eventually left the party.\n\nSoon after leaving the party, Lim was appointed as a member of the Rendel Commission, chaired by British diplomat Sir George Rendel, which was formed in July 1953 by Singapore's colonial government to provide advice on constitutional development in Singapore. The Commission subsequently submitted a report in February 1954 for major changes in constitutional law of Singapore, heading towards self-rule. At the same time, Lim formed the Labour Front (LF) with Francis Thomas and well-known barrister David Marshall, with Marshall as President.\n\nIn February 1955, a new constitution, the Rendel Constitution, was implemented. Singapore would create its first Legislative Assembly with majority of the seats popularly elected, to replace the existing Council. 25 out of 32 seats would be elected by the general populace, four seats would be allocated to Governor-appointed unofficial members, three seats taken by \"ex officio\" members, respectively the Chief Secretary, Attorney-General and Financial Secretary, while the remaining seat would be for the unofficial Speaker of the Assembly nominated by the Governor. Moreover, the post of the Chief Minister was added, which would be assumed by the leader of the majority party in the Assembly, sharing the responsibility with the Governor. The Governor continued to take control over areas such as external affairs, internal security, defence, broadcasting and public relations, whereas the power of policy-making for the people's welfare lied in the hands of the Chief Minister.\n\nThe existing Executive Council was replaced by the newly formed Council of Ministers, chaired by the Governor, composed of the three \"ex officio\" members (Chief Secretary, Attorney General, Financial Secretary) and the remaining six unofficial members, inclusive of the Chief Minister and five other members from the Assembly. Although the Governor presided over the Council of Ministers, the Chief Minister could lead discussions, whereas the other Council members who was also Assemblymen would also take up different ministerial posts, similar to the Westminster and parliamentary system.\n\nIn April 1955, in the subsequent Legislative Assembly election, the Marshall-led LF won in the election with 10 seats. The remaining seats were taken by the PP (four), Singapore Alliance (coalition of UMNO－MCA－SMU, three), People's Action Party (PAP, three), Democratic Party (two) and three independent candidates. After the election, Marshall became Singapore's first Chief Minister, but as the LF did not obtain absolute majority, he formed a coalition government with the Singapore Alliance, and appointed two pro-LF unofficial nominated members into the Assembly under the help of Governor Sir John Nicoll. Lim was elected as Havelock constituency's Assemblyman. He was the only popularly elected Legislative Councillor who transited over to the Legislative Assembly.\n\nAfter the election, Lim was appointed by Marshall as Minister for Labour and Welfare, while he resigned his chairmanship from the STUC. Then, workers were on strikes one after another, often escalating into civil unrest incidents, so Lim, as Labour and Welfare Minister, had to meditate and assist in subsiding such strikes. He had handled the April–May 1955 Hock Lee bus strikes, May–July 1955 Singapore Harbour Board Staff Association strikes, and also strikes from hotels, City Council of Singapore, Singapore Traction Company, etc. The Hock Lee bus strikes turned into a riot in May 1955, killing four and injuring many, including two police officers who died.\n\nSoon after, Marshall led an all-party delegation with Governor Sir Robert Black to London, UK in March 1956, to negotiate with the British for self-rule in Singapore. However, talks failed by May 1956, and in his return to Singapore, Marshall resigned as Chief Minister on 6 June. On 8 June 1956, Marshall's deputy, Lim, who was also Minister for Labour and Welfare, took over and became Singapore's second Chief Minister.\n\nLim's Council of Minister was similar to that of Marshall's. Besides continuing to serve as Labour and Welfare Minister, while the other members include his deputy Abdul Hamid bin Haji Jumat (Minister for Local Government, Lands and Housing), J. M. Jumabhoy (Minister for Commerce and Industry), Francis Thomas (Minister for Communications and Works), Chew Swee Kee (Minister for Education) and A. J. Braga (Minister for Health). Marshall, former Chief Minister, later left the LF and founded the Worker's Party. In March 1958, Lim was chosen as LF's President.\n\nAfter Lim succeeded as Chief Minister, his top priority was to achieve full self-governance for Singapore from the British Government. The British had taken to account Singapore's future early during Marshall's tenure as Chief Minister. The British had agreed to Malaya's (Malaysia's predecessor) independence, and due to the strategic value of Singapore's geography, the British wanted to continue taking control over foreign and defence affairs of Singapore. Hence, the British are inclined to granting Singapore self-governance instead of independence. Though Sir Robert Black, the then-Governor, had taken a more open and friendly approach to self-governance for Singapore, as compared to his predecessor Sir John Nicoll, he believed in gradual self-governance. If the handover of power were to be carried out too hastily, self-governing political leaders might not have sufficient experience in governing.\nWhen Marshall led a delegation in March to May 1956 to negotiate talks with the British for self-rule, Black emphasised the priority of internal security issues, while anti-colonialist LF was ineffective in suppression of the series of riots incited by the communists. As a result, talks broke down and complete self-rule was refused.\n\nTo enhance the internal security, Lim arrested the leftist trade union members, teachers and students under the Preservation of Public Security Ordinance, in September to October 1956 and August 1957 upon taking office. Some of them were deported. In addition, alleged pro-communist organisations such as the Singapore Women's Association, the Chinese Musical Gong Society and the Singapore Chinese Middle School Students Union were banned by the authorities. The series of raids prompted the teachers and students from Chinese schools in October 1956 to launch sit-in protests at Chung Cheng High School and The Chinese High School, eventually escalating into riots.\n\nUnder the support of Black, the riot police were dispatched by Lim to clear the school grounds. The Government also imposed a curfew from 26 October to 2 November, suppressing the riots effectively. However, the riots killed 13 and injured hundred more in the five days. Hundreds were arrested, including assemblymen Lim Chin Siong, Fong Swee Suan and Devan Nair, who were radicals from the opposition PAP. They were released when the PAP came to power in 1959.\n\nBritish Government was assured of Singapore's internal security due to Lim's tough stance against the communists. This allowed re-negotiations for self-rule from December 1956 to June 1958. Under Lim's leadership, a delegation of representatives from various political parties headed to London in March 1957 to commence talks with the British for self-rule. They reached a consensus in April, while Lim signed a new constitutional agreement with Secretary of State for the Colonies Alan Lennox-Boyd on behalf of Singapore. Representatives from Singapore drafted a new constitution; In August 1958, the British Parliament passed the State of Singapore Act. Based on the agreement, there would be a great increase in the number of Legislative Assembly seats to be contested in the 1959 election, where all seats would be popularly elected; Singapore would become a self-governing state, with the Chief Minister and the Council of Ministers being replaced respectively by the Prime Minister and the Cabinet of Singapore, in charge of all affairs except defence and diplomacy; The Yang di-Pertuan Negara would replace the existing Governor.\n\nMeanwhile, Lim prompted the Assembly in October 1957 to pass the Singapore Citizenship Ordinance. The Ordinance defined Singapore citizens as those who were born in Singapore, who were born outside Singapore whose fathers were born in Singapore and did not hold foreign nationality, who were born in Malaya and had been living in Singapore for at least two years, who were citizens of the United Kingdom and Colonies living in Singapore for at least two years, and who were foreigners living in Singapore for at least ten years. In recognition of his performance, the University of Malaya conferred Lim the Honorary Doctor of Laws degree in September 1957, while he was presented the rank of \"Seri Maharaja Mangku Negara\" (S.M.N) in August 1958 by Malaysian King Tuanku Abdul Rahman, therefore being granted the title of Tun.\n\nLim had taken a friendlier approach to the Nanyang University prior to the creation of a self-ruling state in June 1959, in order to gain the support of the Chinese majority. Nanyang was the first university with Chinese as its main medium of instruction, which was funded and set up by Tan Lark Sye and other Singaporean businessmen with Fujian ancestry in 1953. However, Nanyang had been disfavoured by the Government due to the latter's English-first policies and the former's alleged CPM involvement. During Marshall's rule, the-then Minister for Education Chew Swee Kee said in May 1956 that degrees conferred by Nanyang would not be recognised by the Government.\n\nEver since Lim took over as Chief Minister, the Government had taken a positive attitude to Nanyang's development despite its policies of non-recognition to Nanyang's degrees. The building of Nanyang's campus was completed in March 1958 and Sir William Goode, the-then Governor was invited to host the institute's opening ceremony. In October 1958, Lim's government announced that it would provide financial assistance to Nanyang, where half of the $840,000 (Malaya and British Borneo dollar) would be used for Nanyang's expenditures while the other half would be used for student bursaries. This was the first time Nanyang received government funding. Lim had the Assembly pass the Nanyang University Ordinance in March 1959, officially granting Nanyang university status.\n\nLim also reassessed the possibility of full acknowledgment of Nanyang's university status. He appointed the Prescott Commission in January 1959, chaired by S. L. Prescott to evaluate the standard and recognisability of Nanyang's degree. Nevertheless, in the \"Prescott Report\" submitted to the Government in March the same year, the performance of Nanyang was bitterly criticised by the Commission, which had reservations about granting full recognition to Nanyang's degrees by the Government. Lim, who did not want to lose support from the people and put his election campaign in danger, chose not to release the report immediately. The report was not made public until after the establishment of the State of Singapore in July 1959. By that time Lim had already stepped down as Chief Minister.\n\nEven though Lim had successfully achieved self-rule from the British, he lost the support of the Chinese majority due to his tough stance in the crackdown of teachers and students from Chinese schools. He had aroused negative public reaction in several other aspects; This includes the resale of Christmas Island to the Government of Australia at a low price, under the request of the British Government, and also the insistence of extending the validity of the Preservation of Public Security Ordinance. There was a rapid decline in support for the Lim's LF due to several other factors: His government was not able to crack down the rapid growth of secret societies, and gang fights occurred frequently, resulting in the deterioration of law and order; The lives of the people had not improved and there was no economic growth; The PAP exposed Chew Swee Kee, the then-Education Minister in early 1959 for being alleged of accepting large sums of money.\nConversely, under the leadership of Chairman Toh Chin Chye and Secretary-General Lee Kuan Yew, the PAP, then opposition, won the support of the people by accusing the LF as being the puppet of the British Government. After a major restructure, the City Council held its first election in 1957; The PAP won 13 out of 32 seats while the LF won only four. In the following year, the LF was defeated once again by the PAP in the Kallang by-election held in July. In November 1958, Lim founded the Singapore People's Alliance (SPA), with himself as Chairman. However, he failed in his attempts to re-gain support from the people.\n\nUnder the new constitution, the legislature was officially dissolved on 31 March 1959. An election was held on 30 May of the same year, where all 51 seats in the Assembly will be popularly elected. In this election, 43 out of 51 PAP candidates were elected; Lim-led SPA had only four out of 34 candidates elected; the United Malays National Organisation won three seats, while the remaining seat was won by an independent candidate. The Liberal Socialist Party (led by E. H. Holloway), the Workers' Party (led by David Marshall) and the LF (led by Francis Thomas) did not win any seats.\n\nOn 3 June 1959, he officially stepped down as Chief Minister. The British officially proclaimed the establishment of the State of Singapore, marking the end of British colonial rule. PAP's Secretary-General Lee Kuan Yew was sworn in on 5 June as the first Prime Minister of Singapore, where Singapore came under full internal self-governance.\n\nLim won the Cairnhill seat in the Legislative Assembly election of 1959 and despite serving as the Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly, his political influence unceasingly reduced. Lim started to lose interest in Singaporean politics; Back during his tenure as Chief Minister, he had already established friendly relations with Tunku Abdul Rahman, the Prime Minister of Malaya, and had expressed increased concern for politics in Malaya; He had also called for the merger of the State of Singapore with Malaya, so as to bring an end to British rule in Singapore.\n\nFollowing a referendum held in Singapore, the Federation of Malaysia, which comprised Malaya, Singapore, Sarawak and North Borneo, was proclaimed in September 1963. The Legislative Assembly of Singapore held an election in the same month; the SPA had formed the Singapore Alliance Party together with some other members of the Opposition back in 1961, under the support of the ruling Alliance Party in Malaysia, with the attempts of challenging the PAP once again. However, Lim did not contest in the election, while the Alliance Party did not win any seats; Lim resigned his chairmanship from the SPA, fading out of Singaporean politics. In January 1964, the then-Malaysian Prime Minister Tunku Abdul Rahman appointed Lim as Malaysian High Commissioner in Australia. When Singapore gained independence from Malaysia in August 1965, he acquired Malaysian citizenship and was issued a Malaysian passport. Remained in office as the High Commissioner, he described himself as a 'child of estranged parents', hoping for the reunification of the two states.\nDuring his term of office in Canberra, Australia, he was reported missing on 11 June 1966. A reporter in Sydney claimed to have seen Lim taking a domestic flight to Sydney, with the alias of 'Hawk'. There were also rumours that he patronised the Paradise Club in Kings Cross, New South Wales and Sandra Nelson, a 19-year-old stripper was his all-time favourite. However, Lim's exact whereabouts were unknown, and the police failed to get in touch with Nelson.\n\nThe Australian police conducted a large-scale search on Lim; the Malaysian Government deployed an envoy to Australia to find his whereabouts, while his wife and two of his daughters also flew there to aid in the search. In an interview by Australian televisions, Lim's wife, in tears, asked for her husband's early return. On the other hand, the envoy from the Malaysian Government said that Lim was probably \"wounded from stumbling upon a stone, and might be currently under care from someone with unknown identity\". While in the Malaysian capital Kuala Lumpur, Prime Minister Tunku Abdul Rahman spoke to the Australian reporters over the telephone, calling for Lim to show up; The Tunku said, \"My friend, come back, I will welcome you, and am willing to let bygones be bygones.\"\n\nAfter nine days of disappearance, Vincent Laus, a guesthouse operator drove Lim back to Canberra on 19 June 1966, where Lim was in a poor mental condition. Laus claimed that he met Lim in the Sydney streets and found him vomiting and in discomfort; he brought him back to his guesthouse to rest, only to realise several days later that he was whom the police was searching for. However, the media raised doubts about Laus' words, including why he had taken days to find out Lim's identity, and why he had not sought the police for help, instead of driving Lim personally back to Canberra. The Malaysian Government declined to comment further on his disappearance, while its envoy only described Laus as a 'Good Samaritan', filling the event with mystery.\n\nSoon after, Lim returned to Kuala Lumpur in July 1966, under his family members' accompaniment. In Malaysia, Lim was alleged for having an extramarital affair with Nelson the stripper, but Lim denied this. Nelson also spoke to the reporters in Australia; she stressed that she and Lim were just ordinary friends and that she was totally unaware of his whereabouts during his disappearance. Malaysian Parliament opposition members even invited her to Malaysia to answer queries about her relationship with Lim, which she declined; but she said that she could send a pile of photographs of her to them if they wanted.\n\nBefore his disappearance, the Foreign Ministry had scheduled for him to serve as Malaysian Ambassador to Italy. However, after the incident, the Foreign Ministry arranged for him to work as Deputy Secretary (Special Duties) to the Ministry instead. Lim resigned from the Foreign Ministry in August 1968, putting an end to his political career in Malaysia. Shortly after, the Government abruptly revoked his title as Tun in late November of the same year, making his disappearance in Australia a bewildering mystery. According to his autobiography published after his death, he chose to go missing because he had a broken relationship with his wife and he was emotionally overwhelmed.\n\nLim met with a traffic accident and was badly injured in September 1961. Despite having made a full recovery, he had occasional health problems. For instance, before his disappearance in June 1966, he had undergone two months of medical treatment earlier on. After resigning from the Malaysian Foreign Affairs Ministry, Lim initially settled in Malacca, until he met with a broken marriage with his wife, when he chose to convert to Islam and emigrated to Mecca, Saudi Arabia to start a new life. He adopted an Islamic-sounding name, Haji Omar Lim Yew Hock.\n\nIn his late years, Lim moved to Jeddah. He joined the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation and worked as a special assistant to the President of the Islamic Development Bank. He died on 30 November 1984 at his Jeddah home, at the age of 70, and was buried in Mecca that night. His autobiography, \"Reflections\", was published after his death in Kuala Lumpur in 1986.\n\nUnlike Lee Kuan Yew, David Marshall, Toh Chin Chye and other Singaporean political leaders who emerged after World War II, who received their tertiary education in prestigious UK institutions, Lim had only received local education. Despite so, he worked as a clerk at the start and joined trade unions. He later became Legislative Councillor and Assemblyman, and appointed as Chief Minister, as an influential politician in colonial Singapore.\n\nUnlike his predecessor Marshall, Lim chose to cooperate with the British. He adopted a tough stance against leftist groups, students and teachers, gaining trust from the British, leading to re-negotiations for self-rule with the British. Under his leadership, Singapore reached an agreement with Britain following a series of talks, granting full internal self-rule in 1959. However, he lost the support of the Chinese majority due to his crackdown of teachers and students in Chinese schools. Moreover, the British had gradually changed their position to support the opposition PAP and its leader Lee Kuan Yew throughout the successive self-rule talks in London, tipping Lee as the potential future leader of Singapore.\n\nDespite having achieved full internal self-rule for Singapore, he lost the support of the people, handing over the post of Prime Minister to Lee Kuan Yew. There have been views, showing that despite losing the support of the people, he had achieved full internal self-governance for Singapore and eliminated left-wing influence in the PAP, paving the way for Lee and his PAP to remain in power thereafter for a long period of time.\n\nAfter he stepped down as Chief Minister, he gradually declined in Singaporean politics. His political career in Singapore came to an end when he chose not to contest in the Legislative Assembly election in 1963. Lim got involved in politics in the Malaysian politics in the following year. However, it, too, came to an end after his disappearance in 1966 in Australia. He eventually chose to lead a low-profile life in Saudi Arabia and was no longer involved in Singaporean nor Malaysian politics. Lim made such an evaluation about himself in his autobiography published after his death:\nLim married Chia Kim Neo in 12 January 1937. They had one son and three daughters. After having been through his disappearance in 1966 and resignation from the Malaysian Government in 1968, Lim's marriage with Chia broke down. When he converted to Islam and was living in Saudi Arabia in his late years, he remarried ethnic Chinese Hajjah Hasnah Abdullah, another Muslim convert. Both of them had a daughter with the name of Hayati.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843671", "title": "Peter Woit", "text": "Peter Woit\n\nPeter Woit (; born September 11, 1957) is an American theoretical physicist. He is a senior lecturer in the Mathematics department at Columbia University. Woit, a critic of string theory, has published a book \"Not Even Wrong\" and writes a blog of the same name.\n\nWoit graduated in 1979 from Harvard University with bachelor's and master's degrees in physics. He obtained his PhD in particle physics from Princeton University in 1985, followed by postdoctoral work in theoretical physics at State University of New York at Stony Brook and mathematics at the Mathematical Sciences Research Institute (MSRI) in Berkeley. He spent four years as an assistant professor at Columbia. He now holds a permanent position in the mathematics department, as senior lecturer and as departmental computer administrator.\n\nWoit is a U.S. citizen and also has a Latvian passport. His father was born in Riga and became exiled with his own parents at the beginning of the Soviet occupation of Latvia.\n\nHe is critical of string theory on the grounds that it lacks testable predictions and is promoted with public money despite its failures so far, and has authored both scientific papers and popular polemics on this topic. His writings claim that excessive media attention and funding of this one particular mainstream endeavour, which he considers speculative, risks undermining public faith in the freedom of scientific research. His moderated weblog on string theory and other topics is titled \"Not Even Wrong\", a derogatory term for scientifically useless arguments coined by Wolfgang Pauli.\n\nA discussion in 2006 took place between University of California, Santa Barbara physicists at the Kavli Institute for Theoretical Physics and science journalist George Johnson regarding the controversy caused by Lee Smolin and Woit's books. The meeting was titled \"The String Wars\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843676", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843676", "title": "Jessie's Girl", "text": "Jessie's Girl\n\n\"Jessie's Girl\" is a song written and performed by Australian singer Rick Springfield. It was released on the album \"Working Class Dog\", which was released in February 1981. The song is about unrequited love and centers on a young man in love with his best friend's girlfriend.\n\nUpon its release in the United States in 1981, \"Jessie's Girl\" was slow to break out. It debuted on \"Billboard\"s Hot 100 chart on 28 March but took 19 weeks to hit No. 1 reaching that position on 1 August, one of the slowest climbs to No. 1 at that time. It remained in that position for two weeks and would be Springfield's only first-place hit. The song was at No. 1 when MTV launched on 1 August 1981. The song ultimately spent 32 weeks on the chart. \"Billboard\" ranked it as No. 5 for all of 1981.\n\nThe song also peaked at No. 1 in Springfield's native Australia and later won him a Grammy Award for Best Male Rock Vocal Performance.\n\n\"Jessie's Girl\" was released in the United Kingdom in March 1984 and peaked at No. 43 on the UK Singles Chart in April 1984.\n\nSpringfield recorded an acoustic version of the song for his 1999 album, \"Karma\".\n\nSpringfield was taking a stained glass class. Also in the class were a friend of his named Gary and Gary's girlfriend. Springfield initially wanted to use the actual name of his friend, but instead decided to go with a different name. He chose \"Jessie\" because he was wearing a T-shirt with the name of football player Ron Jessie on it.\n\nSpringfield says that he does not remember the name of the girlfriend, and he believes that the real woman who inspired the song has no idea that she was \"Jessie's Girl.\" He told Oprah Winfrey, \"I was never really introduced to her. It was always just, like, panting from afar.\" Springfield told Songfacts that Oprah's people tried to find her, and they got as far back as finding out that the teacher of the class had died two years previously and that his class records were thrown out one year after his death. In 2006, the song was named No. 20 on VH1's \"100 Greatest Songs of the 80s\".\n\nThe music video depicts Springfield watching a young couple with envy, desiring the girl's love. It opens with Jessie (played by Steve Antin) spray painting \"Jessie's Girl\" onto a brick wall, then leaving with his girlfriend, as Springfield watches and gives a monologue in the form of the song's first verse. Springfield runs into the couple one more time on the sidewalk, and he just stares as they walk away from him. Later, he goes home and looks in the mirror and grieves over why Jessie's girlfriend doesn't like him; he angrily smashes the mirror when an illusion of her appears in it.\n\nIn regards to the song's use in films such as \"Boogie Nights\" (1997), \"13 Going on 30\" (2004), and \"Suicide Squad\" (2016) over 20 years after its original release, Springfield said, \"I'm thrilled by it. As a writer, all you can ask is that a song has legs. It has an appeal that keeps coming back.\"\n\n\"Jessie's Girl\" was covered on \"Glee\" in the episode \"Laryngitis\" (2010). Finn Hudson (Cory Monteith) sings it to Rachel Berry (Lea Michele) to express his opinions about her relationship with her then-boyfriend, Jesse (Jonathan Groff). This version was certified gold by the Australian Recording Industry Association in 2010.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843677", "title": "Aristaloe", "text": "Aristaloe\n\nAristaloe is a genus of evergreen flowering perennial plant in the family Asphodelaceae from Southern Africa. Its sole species is Aristaloe aristata, known as guinea-fowl aloe or lace aloe.\n\nThis species is known locally as \"serelei\" (Sesotho for \"slippery one\") or \"langnaaldaalwyn\" (Afrikaans for \"lacey aloe\"). In English it is usually known as the \"lace aloe\" or \"guinea-fowl aloe\".\n\nThe species was described by Adrian Hardy Haworth. Its species name \"\"aristata\"\" comes from the Latin for \"bristly\" or \"awned\", and refers to the lacy edges of the leaves. Its generic name has the same etymology.\nRecent phylogenetic studies have demonstrated that the genus \"Aloe\" is polyphyletic and that this unusual species is not in fact an aloe, but is more closely related to \"Astroloba\" and to the four \"\"Robustipedunculares\"\" species of \"Haworthia\". It has therefore been moved to its own genus, \"Aristaloe\", to account for its separate ancestry and genetic uniqueness.\n\nIt is stemless, sawtoothed and succulent. The soft succulent leaves grow in rosettes, and are lanceolate with bristly margins.\n\nIts nectar-rich, tubular orange flowers tend to attract birds, bees, and wasps easily.\nWhen not in bloom, it is similar to and often confused with some other species, such as \"Haworthiopsis fasciata\".\n\nIt is indigenous to South Africa and Lesotho. Its natural range extends from the Karoo region of the Northern Cape and Eastern Cape Provinces of South Africa, eastwards through the Orange Free State and Lesotho, as far as the borders of Kwazulu-Natal Province.\n\nWithin such a wide range, this adaptable little species inhabits a range of environments, from the dry, sandy Nama Karoo, to the high grasslands and cold mountain slopes of Lesotho, and the shady forested valleys of KwaZulu-Natal.\n\nIt is commonly cultivated as a garden plant around the world. It prefers well-drained soils, but can tolerate a range of rainfall systems. It can also tolerate temperatures down to -7 °C, due to its adaptation to cold mountain tops. However it may need to be grown indoors or under glass in extremely cold temperate regions, to give it some winter heat. This clumping species readily produces large numbers of off-sets, which can be separated and planted as a means of propagation.\n\nIt has gained the Royal Horticultural Society's Award of Garden Merit.\n\n"}
{"id": "1843683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843683", "title": "Hulett C. Smith", "text": "Hulett C. Smith\n\nHulett Carlson Smith (October 21, 1918 – January 15, 2012) served as the 27th Governor of West Virginia from 1965 to 1969.\n\nThe son of West Virginia Congressman Joe L. Smith, Hulett C. Smith was born in Beckley, West Virginia. Smith attended public schools in Raleigh County, and graduated with honors from the University of Pennsylvania's Wharton School of Finance and Administration, where he majored in economics. Following his graduation from the Wharton School, Smith worked in the insurance business and at his family's radio station. During World War II he served in the U.S. Navy, rising to the rank of lieutenant, and ultimately became a lieutenant commander in the U.S. Naval Reserve.\n\nActive in community service and civic affairs, he served as president of The West Virginia Junior Chamber of Commerce (1949–1950). He was the chairman of the West Virginia Democratic Party from 1956 to 1962. During this time Smith co-founded Bald Knob Ski Slopes, the predecessor to Winterplace Ski Resort. He was elected governor in 1964 and served for one term. Due to term limits in place at that time, he was unable to run for a second term in 1968. After his term as governor, Smith served as a Presidential elector in 1992; he was also on the slate of George McGovern's electors in 1972.\n\nIn 1968, Smith responded to the bombing of the gymnasium at Bluefield State College by offering a $5,000 reward for information leading to conviction of the culprits.\n\nSmith died in Scottsdale, Arizona at the age of 93.\n\n"}
{"id": "1843684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843684", "title": "Gregory Winter", "text": "Gregory Winter\n\nSir Gregory Paul Winter (born 14 April 1951) is a Nobel Prize-winning British biochemist best known for his work on the therapeutic use of monoclonal antibodies. His research career has been based almost entirely at the MRC Laboratory of Molecular Biology and the MRC Centre for Protein Engineering, in Cambridge, England. \n\nHe is credited with invented techniques to both humanise (1986) and, later, to fully humanise using phage display, antibodies for therapeutic uses. Previously, antibodies had been derived from mice, which made them difficult to use in human therapeutics because the human immune system had anti-mouse reactions to them. For these developments Winter was awarded the 2018 Nobel Prize in Chemistry along with George Smith and Frances Arnold.\n\nHe is a Fellow of Trinity College, Cambridge and was appointed Master of Trinity College, Cambridge on 2 October 2012. From 2006 to 2011, he was Deputy Director of the Laboratory of Molecular Biology, Medical Research Council, acting Director from 2007 to 2008 and Head of the Division of Protein and Nucleic Acids Chemistry from 1994 to 2006. He was also Deputy Director of the MRC Centre for Protein Engineering from 1990 to its closure in 2010.\n\nWinter was educated at the Royal Grammar School, Newcastle upon Tyne. He went on to study Natural Sciences at the University of Cambridge graduating from Trinity College, Cambridge in 1973. He was awarded a PhD degree, from the MRC Laboratory of Molecular Biology, for research on the amino acid sequence of tryptophanyl tRNA synthetase from the bacterium \"Bacillus stearothermophilus\" in 1977 supervised by Brian S. Hartley. Later, Winter completed a term of post-doctoral fellowship at Imperial College London, and another at the Institute of genetics in University of Cambridge.\n\nFollowing his PhD, Winter completed postdoctoral research at the Laboratory of Molecular Biology in Cambridge. He continued to specialise in protein and nucleic acid sequencing and became a Group Leader at the MRC Laboratory of Molecular Biology in 1981. He became interested in the idea that all antibodies have the same basic structure, with only small changes making them specific for one target. Georges Köhler and César Milstein had won the 1984 Nobel Prize for their work at the Laboratory of Molecular Biology, in discovering a method to isolate and reproduce individual, or monoclonal, antibodies from among the multitude of different antibody proteins that the immune system makes to seek and destroy foreign invaders attacking the body. However, these monoclonal antibodies had limited application in human medicine, because mouse monoclonal antibodies are rapidly inactivated by the human immune response, which prevents them from providing long-term benefits.\n\nWinter then pioneered a technique to \"humanise\" mouse monoclonal antibodies; a technique that was used in the development of Campath-1H  by the Laboratory of Molecular Biology and University of Cambridge scientists. This antibody now looks promising for the treatment of multiple sclerosis. Humanised monoclonal antibodies form the majority of antibody-based drugs on the market today and include several blockbuster antibodies, such as Keytruda, which works with your immune system to help fight certain cancers.\n\nWinter founded Cambridge Antibody Technology in 1989 , and Bicycle Therapeutics.\nHe worked on the Scientific Advisory Board of \"Covagen\", (now part of Cilag) and is also the chairman of the Scientific Advisory Board for Biosceptre International Limited.\n\nIn 1989, Winter was a founder of Cambridge Antibody Technology, one of the early commercial biotech companies involved in antibody engineering. One of the most successful antibody drugs developed was HUMIRA (adalimumab), which was discovered by Cambridge Antibody Technology as D2E7, and developed and marketed by Abbott Laboratories. HUMIRA, an antibody to TNF alpha, was the world's first fully human antibody, which went on to become the world's top selling pharmaceutical with sales of over $18Bn in 2017 Cambridge Antibody Technology was acquired by AstraZeneca in 2006 for £702m.\n\nIn 2000, Winter founded Domantis to pioneer the use of domain antibodies, which use only the active portion of a full-sized antibody. Domantis was acquired by the pharmaceutical GlaxoSmithKline in December 2006 for £230 million.\n\nWinter subsequently founded another company, Bicycle Therapeutics Limited as a start up company which is developing very small protein mimics based on a covalently bonded hydrophobic core.\n\nWinter was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society (FRS) in 1990 and awarded the Royal Medal by the society in 2011 \"for his pioneering work in protein engineering and therapeutic monoclonal antibodies, and his contributions as an inventor and entrepreneur\". He was given the Scheele Award in 1994. \n\nIn 1995, Winter won several international awards including the King Faisal International Prize for Medicine (Molecular Immunology) and in 1999, the Cancer Research Institute William B. Coley Award. Winter was formerly the Joint Head of the Division of Protein and Nucleic acid Chemistry-Biotechnology, and is Deputy Director, at the Laboratory of Molecular Biology, Cambridge, an institution funded by the UK Medical Research Council. He was also Deputy Director of the MRC's Centre for Protein Engineering until its absorption into the Laboratory of Molecular Biology. He is a member of the Advisory Council for the Campaign for Science and Engineering. Winter was appointed Commander of the Order of the British Empire (CBE) in 1997 and Knight Bachelor in 2004. He served as Master of Trinity College, Cambridge from 2012 to 2019. In 2015 he received the Wilhelm Exner Medal.\n\nWinter was awarded the Nobel Prize in Chemistry on 3 October 2018 for his work on phage displays for antibodies, along with George Smith and Frances Arnold. In 2020 he was featured on \"The Times\"' 'Science Power List'.\n\n"}
{"id": "1843701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843701", "title": "Torch plant", "text": "Torch plant\n\nTorch plant is a common name for several plants and may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1843707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843707", "title": "Prince Nikolai of Denmark", "text": "Prince Nikolai of Denmark\n\nPrince Nikolai of Denmark (Nikolai William Alexander Frederik; born 28 August 1999), is a member of the Danish royal family. He is the elder son of Prince Joachim and his first wife, Alexandra, Countess of Frederiksborg. He is currently seventh in the line of succession to the Danish throne. At the time of his birth, he was third, after his uncle and father.\n\nPrince Nikolai was born at Rigshospitalet, Copenhagen University Hospital, in Copenhagen on 28 August 1999. Prince Nikolai is the oldest grandchild of Queen Margrethe II of Denmark and her husband, Prince Henrik. In addition, the prince is of Chinese descent, as he is a great-great-grandson of Mary Ho Li from Guangdong, China. He was christened in the chapel of the Fredensborg Palace on 6 November 1999 by the royal vicar Christian Thodberg. At the christening the musical work \"Lys på din vej\", composed by Frederik Magle and dedicated to Prince Nikolai, was performed for the first time.\n\nHis godparents are the Crown Prince of Denmark (paternal uncle), Nicola Baird (maternal aunt), the Earl of Wessex, Peter Steenstrup, and Camilla Flint.\n\nAfter their divorce, Prince Joachim and Alexandra had joint custody of Prince Nikolai and Prince Felix. The official Danish royal website states: \"\"Prins Joachim og Alexandra grevinde af Frederiksborg har efter skilsmissen fælles forældremyndighed over Prins Nikolai og Prins Felix\".\" This translates to: \"Prince Joachim and Alexandra Countess of Frederiksborg will have joint custody of Prince Nikolai and Prince Felix after their divorce.\"\n\nLike his father and uncle, Nikolai attended Krebs School in Copenhagen. In 2014, he attended 10th grade in Herlufsholm School at Næstved and after received his upper secondary education there as well.\n\nNikolai was confirmed on Saturday, 18 May 2013 in Fredensborg Palace Church in the presence of his immediate family and all his godparents.\n\nIn 2018, it was reported that he was working as a fashion model. He debuted at the 2018 London Fashion Week. On 28 August 2017, many members of the royal family met on the HDMY Dannebrog to celebrate Nikolai's 18th birthday. \n\nHe has been admitted to in Varde, but left the school 2 months after for personal reasons.\n\nIn July 2019, he was admitted to Copenhagen Business School to study the Bachelor in Business Administration and Service Management \n\nNikolai is styled as \"His Highness Prince Nikolai of Denmark, Count of Monpezat\". He has been Prince of Denmark since birth and Count of Monpezat since 29 April 2008, when Queen Margrethe granted the title to her male-line descendants.\n\n"}
{"id": "1843713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843713", "title": "Tropical Storm Arthur", "text": "Tropical Storm Arthur\n\nThe name Arthur has been used for seven tropical cyclones in the Atlantic Ocean.\n\nArthur has been used for three tropical cyclones in the Southern Hemisphere.\n"}
{"id": "1843714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843714", "title": "Chaat", "text": "Chaat\n\nChaat or chat (ISO: ) is a savoury snack that originated in India, typically served as an hors d'oeuvre at roadside tracks from stalls or food carts across the Indian subcontinent in India, Pakistan, Nepal, and Bangladesh. With its origins in Uttar Pradesh, India, chaat has become immensely popular in the rest of the Indian subcontinent. The word derives from Hindi \"cāṭ\" चाट (tasting, a delicacy), from \"cāṭnā\" चाटना (to lick, as in licking ones fingers while eating), from Prakrit \"caṭṭei\" चट्टेइ (to devour with relish, eat noisily).\n\nThe chaat variants are all based on fried dough, with various other ingredients. The original chaat is a mixture of potato pieces, crisp fried bread dahi vada or dahi bhalla, gram or chickpeas and tangy-salty spices, with sour Indian chili and saunth (dried ginger and tamarind sauce), fresh green coriander leaves and yogurt for garnish, but other popular variants included aloo tikkis or samosa (garnished with onion, coriander, hot spices and a dash of curd), bhel puri, dahi puri, panipuri, dahi vada, papri chaat, and sev puri.\n\nThere are common elements among these variants including dahi (yogurt); chopped onions and coriander; sev (thin dried yellow salty noodles); and chaat masala, typically consisting of amchoor (dried mango powder), cumin, kala namak (Himalayan black rock salt), coriander, dried ginger, salt, black pepper, and red pepper. The ingredients are combined and served on a small metal plate or a banana leaf, dried and formed into a bowl.\n\nMost chaats originated in some parts of Uttar Pradesh in India, but they are now eaten all across the Indian subcontinent and neighboring countries. Some are results of cultural syncretism - for instance, pav bhaji (bread/bun with cooked and mashed vegetables) originated in Mumbai but reflects a Portuguese influence, in the form of a bun, and bhel puri and sevpuri, which originated in Mumbai, Maharashtra.\n\nIn cities where chaat is popular, there are popular chaathouses or \"dhabas\", such as Mumbai's Chowpatty Beach. The chaat specialities vary from city to city. Chaat from Delhi (from where it originated in its current form), Lucknow, Prayagraj Azamgarh, Varanasi, Agra, Meerut, Muzaffarnagar, and Mathura are famous throughout India. In Hyderabad, chaat is mostly prepared by vendors hailing from Bihar, and is different in taste.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843716", "title": "Prince Felix of Denmark", "text": "Prince Felix of Denmark\n\nPrince Felix of Denmark (Felix Henrik Valdemar Christian; born 22 July 2002), is the younger son of Prince Joachim and his former wife, Alexandra, Countess of Frederiksborg.\n\nFelix is currently eighth in the line of succession to the Danish throne.\n\nPrince Felix was born at Rigshospitalet the Copenhagen University Hospital in Copenhagen on 22 July 2002. When his father met the press following the birth, he joked that the baby could be named anything from Ib to Nebuchadnezzar.\n\nHe was christened in Møgeltønder Church in Møgeltønder on 4 October 2002 by the royal vicar Christian Thodberg. His names were revealed to be Felix Henrik Valdemar Christian. His godparents are Martina Bent (maternal aunt); and friends of his parents: Count Christian Ahlefeldt-Laurvig, Oscar Davidsen Siesbye, Damian Sibley and Annick Boel. At the christening the musical work \"Dåbens Pagt\" composed by Frederik Magle, dedicated to Prince Felix, was given its first performance.\n\nIn addition, the prince is of Chinese descent, as his mother is a great-granddaughter of Mary Ho Li from Guangdong, China.\n\nAfter their divorce, Prince Joachim and Alexandra have joint custody of Prince Felix and his older brother Prince Nikolai. Felix attended pre-school at the Garnison Church in Copenhagen, and at age six, followed in the footsteps of his father, brother and uncle at Krebs School in Østerbro.\n\nFelix is styled as \"His Highness Prince Felix of Denmark, Count of Monpezat\". He has been Prince of Denmark since birth and Count of Monpezat since 29 April 2008, when Queen Margrethe granted the title to her male-line descendants.\n\n"}
{"id": "1843718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843718", "title": "Bernard Evslin", "text": "Bernard Evslin\n\nBernard Evslin (April 4, 1922 – June 4, 1993) was an American author best known for his adaptations of Greek mythology.\n\nBernard Evslin was born in New Rochelle, New York, and went on to attend Rutgers University.\n\nEvslin spent the first part of his career as a playwright and screenwriter. His comedy, \"The Geranium Hat\", opened on Broadway in 1959 and was generally well received, although his later play, \"Step on a Crack\" only held one performance before closing at the Ethel Barrymore Theater, despite starring Rita Hayworth. Evslin also wrote the screenplay for A.k.a. Cassius Clay and co-wrote the screenplay for Journey Back to Oz. In the 1960s, he switched gears to novels and short stories, the best-known of which is \"Heroes, Gods and Monsters of the Greek Myths\" which has been translated into multiple languages and sold over ten million copies across the globe. Evslin went on to author over seventy titles overall, almost half of which were geared at young adults. \n\nEvslin won many awards for his writing, including the National Education Association Award in 1961, National Education Award nomination in 1975, best television documentary on an Educational Theme Award, and the Washington Irving Children's Book Choice Award from the Westchester Library Association for his book \"Hercules\" in 1968.\n\nHe was married to author and teacher Dorothy Evslin, with whom he co-wrote two of his mythology books, \"The Greek Gods\" and \"Heroes & Monsters of Greek Myth\" alongside Ned Hoopes. Together, they had four children: Lee, who resides in Hawaii, and Tom, the former Chief Technology Officer of the State of Vermont and CEO of ITXC corporation, who lives in Seattle, as well as two daughters, Pamela and Janet.\n\nEvslin died of cardiac arrest while in his swimming pool on June 4, 1993 in Kauai, Hawaii at the age of 71.\n\nEvslin's \"Monsters of Mythology\" series, published between 1987 and 1991, retold many stories from ancient mythology, often by altering the plot of the stories. \n\nThe titles include: \n\n"}
{"id": "1843720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843720", "title": "Agusan del Sur State College of Agriculture and Technology", "text": "Agusan del Sur State College of Agriculture and Technology\n\nThe Agusan del Sur State College of Agriculture and Technology is a chartered state college in Bunawan, Agusan del Sur, Philippines through Republic Act No. 7932 approved on March 1, 1995.\n\nIn June 1908, Americans established the Manobo Industrial School (MIS) to educate the people of Agusan province to a better way of life after a group of them lead by Dean C. Worcester visited Agusan province in 1906 and determined the needs of the people. The students of MIS were sons of Manobo \"datus\" from the regions of Simulao, Adgawan, Umayam, Gibung, and Wawa-Ojot while the principal was Carlson Berger with Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Kempt, Liberato Fortun, and Ciriaco Viajar as members of the faculty. The school was situated opposite the poblacion of Bunawan along the bank of the Simulao River. Executive Order No. 52 issued by Governor-General William Cameron Forbes on June 24, 1908 granted the school site a reserved area of 41.9089 hectares (Parcel 1) and 0.1764 hectares (Parcel 2).\n\nTo improve the farming practices of the people, MIS was later on converted into Manobo Farm School (MFS). During school year 1915-1916, a Grade V class was opened with Ellsworth Maxwell as principal and George L. Broxholm, Cornelio del Rosario, and Dedicación del Rosario as teachers. Pupils lived in Bunawan with their parents or relatives otherwise pupils coming from the municipalities of Cuevas, Trento, Libertad, Veruela, La Paz, Loreto, Prosperidad, Talacogon, San Luis, Esperanza and Lianga, Surigao were accommodated in the dormitory with free clothing, bedding, and subsistence.\n\nThrough Education Act of 1927, MFS became Bunawan Agricultural High School in 1927. Under Proclamation No. 677 issued by Governor-General Frank Murphy on April 2, 1934, additional site of 280.8131 hectares was reserved for the school. The first year high school was in school year 1927–1928 and was extended to fourth year during school year 1930–1931. It was temporarily closed during World War II.\n\nThe school has the following Filipino principals before the outbreak of World War II:\n\nAfter World War II, the school was reopened and renamed Bunawan National Agricultural Junior High School by virtue of Republic Act No. 301 approved on June 17, 1948.\n\nWith the re-establishment of the high school in Bunawan, parents began to enroll their children at the Bunawan Junior Agricultural High School (BJAHS) instead of in Mampising, Davao or in Ampayon, Butuan City. Raymundo Curato, the principal of Bunawan District, was designated to open the school as Farm Manager by Mariano Manaligod, Division Superintendent of Schools for Agusan; Enrique Paller, the Farm Manager of the School in Ampayon acted as officer-in-charge (OIC) of BJAHS until Jose F. Luna came as principal.\n\nLuna arrived in September 1948 and immediately moved to provide facilities, books, equipment, working animals, food and other needs until his replacement by Domingo C. Gabertan on August 4, 1949.\n\nGabertan decided to relocate the school campus on higher ground due to the yearly flooding on the old site. The present site now along the Agusan-Davao National Highway (Daang Maharlika). RA.#948 was approved on June 20, 1953, converting the school into Bunawan National Agricultural School (BUNAS). Five ICA-NEC (FOA-Philcusa) buildings were constructed: Vocational Agricultural Buildings, Homemaking Building, Farm Shop, Farm machineries, Granary and the concrete water tower. Gabertan, however, was transferred to Negros Occidental National Agricultural School in Kabankalan on August 16, 1956, after he was sent to the United States for one year advanced studies. The faculty and students held their classes in the new site but they continue to stay at the old site which was about 2 km until the old girls' dormitory was finished in 1958.\n\nFelipe C. Galeon succeeded Gabertan as principal. During his time additional buildings were constructed like the girls' dormitory, social hall, and practice house, until his promotion to the General Office, Manila in the later part of 1960. Following Galeon as principal was Perfecto C. Boncato, who was transferred from Bilar Rural High School, Bilar, Bohol.\n\nBoncato was able to construct the Related Subjects and Home Management buildings, and laid out the school playground. When Boncato left in 1966, Arturo Cubangbang, Santiago T. Medrano, and Federico S. Zamora were temporarily designated as officers-in-charge until the transfer of Gregorio C. Alava, principal of Davao National Regional Agricultural School to BUNAS in school year 1966-1967. Alava was later replaced by Felipe C. Badua who was promoted as principal effective on June 23, 1967, and as vocational school administrator I on July 1, 1974, until his retirement on May 27, 1985.\n\nOn June 21, 1969, the Bunawan National Agricultural School (BUNAS) was converted into Southern Agusan National Agricultural College (SANAC) through Republic Act No. 5917 which was sponsored by then Congressman Jose C. Aquino of Agusan. Congressman Democrito O. Plaza during SY 1969-70 included in the General Appropriations Act for the operation of SANAC.\n\nCircular No. 8 issued by the defunct Bureau of Vocational Education (BVE) on October 4, 1974, authorized the school to offer the Revised Two-year Post-Secondary Agricultural Technician curriculum starting the second semester, school year 1974-1975. This was the result of the effort made by Gov. Valentina G. Plaza in inviting a team from BVE. One hundred thirty three students graduated from this course in five batches until it was phased out in school year 1986-1987.\n\nThe CMU (Central Mindanao University) Off-Campus Institute at SANAC started offering the first year of the four-year general collegiate academic course during the first semester of SY 1979-80 with members of the faculty who were trained at CMU, Musuan, Bukidnon, for two summers, acting as affiliate instructors. The following year, second-year subjects were offered. After the second, the CMU Off-Campus students were supposed to proceed o the CMU Main Campus for their third and fourth years, or to other colleges\\universities of their choice. This program was in operation in SANAC for four years until it was suspended at the beginning of SY 1983-1984 because the number of students who wanted to enroll did not reach the desired number as required by university authorities.\n\nOn June 23, 1987, DECS Order No. 66, series of 1987 was issued granting authority to the school to operate the ladder-type Bachelor of Agricultural Technology (B.A.T.) course. The first two years of this course admitted NCEE and non-NCEE qualifiers, leading to the Diploma in Agricultural Technology (D.A.T.), but only NCEE qualifiers can proceed to the third and fourth years leading to the Bachelor of Agricultural Technology degree.\n\nNicasio T. Domingo Jr., who replaced Badua as vocational school administrator, exerted efforts to increase students achievement by upgrading the quality of instruction; curriculum improvements; faculty and staff development; and acquisition of needed field, laboratory, and library facilities. In school year 1989-1990 there was a 100% qualification in the NCEE among the fourth-year students who took the examination; the school produced its first batch of B.A.T. graduates, a significant milestone.\n\nNicasio T. Domingo was transferred to the DECS Regional Office, Region X, Cagayan de Oro City effective September 17, 1990, and Ramona S. Nono, Administrative Officer II, was designated officer-in-charge from September 1990 to February 5, 1991. Cristeto Ra. Abrea, vocational school principal I of Kinoguitan National Agricultural School (KNAS), Misamis Oriental, was designated officer-in-charge of SANAC effective February 6, 1991.\n\nStarting the academic year 1992-93, through DECS Order No. 88 s. 1992, two academic programs were added: Bachelor of Secondary Education (BSEd) major in Technology and Home Economics, and the Bachelor of Elementary Education (BEEd) with concentration in Work Education and with the initial offering of Laboratory Grade School.\n\nIn the same year, Congressman Ceferino S. Paredes Jr. sponsored Batas Pambansa House Bill No. 1432 and supported by the Senate Bill No. 1690 of Senator Edgardo J. Angara, for the conversion of SANAC into a state college. On March 1, 1995, President Fidel V. Ramos signed RA No 7932 transforming SANAC into Agusan del Sur State College of Agriculture and Technology (ASSCAT). More degree programs were offered: Diploma in Inland Fishery Technology (DIFT) leading to Bachelor in Inland Fishery Technology (BIFT), Bachelor of Science in Agro-Forestry (BSAF), and Bachelor of Science in Agribusiness and Information Technology (BSAIT).\n\nThe DAT-BAT program was strengthened when ASSCAT was one of the four identified institutions in Mindanao which availed the support and assistance from the Australian Agency for International Development (AusAID) and Education Development Projects Implementing Task Force (EDPITAF). The project gained bilateral funding from the Philippine-Australian Agricultural Technology Education Project (PA-AGRITECH) from 1996 to 2000. The 60 million pesos grant-in-aid for ASSCAT was in the form of refurbished theory room, library, farm mechanics shop, laboratories for science, crop and food processing, nursery, and Community Outreach Center (COC). Computers, typewriters, overhead-projector, photocopier, recent editions of library books, course materials and other references were provided.\n\nCristeto Ra. Abrea served as OIC college president from 1995 to 1997 and became the first installed ASSCAT president in January 1997. Upon his retirement in January 2001, Dr. Roberto N. Padua, CHED Commissioner assumed as Chair of the Management Committee on January 13, 2001, to August 22, 2001, while Bernardino Z. Ente Jr. M.P.A. served as ASSCAT OIC president from August 22, 2001, to February 13, 2002. During the academic year 2001–2002, three curricular programs were added: Bachelor of Science in Agricultural Engineering (BSAE), Bachelor of Science in Electronics and Communications Engineering (BSECE) and Bachelor of Science in Information Technology (BSIT).\n\nThe Philippine House of Representatives received on September 19, 2018 House Bill Numbered 8263 introduced by Representative Evelyn P. Mellana converting the Agusan del Sur State College of Agriculture and Technology into a state university to be known as Agusan del Sur State University. \n\nOn January 30, 2019, the Philippine House of Representatives received a report from the House Committee on Higher and Technical Education, Appropriations, and Ways and Means recommending the approval of House Bill No. 8916 in substitution of House Bill No. 8263 converting the Agusan del Sur State College of Agriculture and Technology into a state university to be known as the Agusan del Sur State University. \n\nThe college continues to tune its baccalaureate programs to the country’s development needs. ASSCAT's agricultural programs support the provincial and regional thrusts as spelled out in the CARAGA Medium Term Development Plan. \n\nHome and Food Technology and other allied courses are offered. There is a two-year diploma in Inland Fishery Technology. Short-term computer courses are available.\n\nThe college pursues AACCUP accreditation on all degree programs. On October 25, 2011 Juarlito V. Garcines was appointed college president at CHED Central Office. nine degree programs were offered:\n\n\nThe library was a donation from the Bunawan LGU through the effort of Mayor Gilbert G. Elorde. Books and electronic resources such as VHS, CDs and transparencies worth about 4.5 million were donated by Congressman Rodolfo G. Plaza, who also assisted with the installation of the College Speech Laboratory.\n\nThe proceeds from Income Generating Projects (IGP) have augmented the services and facilities needed by the students and faculty. In particular, the amount repair of the building which is the Accreditation Center serving the three institutes came from the IGP. The oil palm, coffee and rubber plantation projects income helped for the repair and renovation of the ceilings of some old and dilapidated buildings. IGP proceeds were used for the concrete pavement on the school premises.\n\nThe amount used for the construction of the College Cafeteria was taken from IGP proceeds. The college cafeteria functions as an IGP, but it has very limited income because nutritious foods were served at minimal costs.\n\nOrganic rice farming and corn seed production are in the experimental stage. Vegetable growing is gaining popularity and prominence because of the use of organic fertilizer. Animal projects are on the break-even phase but being maintained as Students Instructional Units (SIUs) necessary for the agricultural programs.\n\nThe following courses are offered at Agusan del Sur State College of Agriculture and Technology \n\n"}
{"id": "1843722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843722", "title": "Bayezid II Mosque, Istanbul", "text": "Bayezid II Mosque, Istanbul\n\nThe Bayezid II Mosque () is an early 16th century Ottoman imperial mosque located in the Beyazıt Square area of Istanbul, Turkey, near the ruins of the Forum of Theodosius of ancient Constantinople.\n\nThe Beyazidiye Camii was commissioned by Ottoman Sultan Bayezid II, and was the second large imperial mosque complex to be erected in Istanbul after the conquest. \nAs the earliest complex, the Fatih Mosque was subsequently destroyed by earthquakes and completely rebuilt in a different style, the Beyazidiye complex is of considerable historical and architectural significance. That the architect was a nephew of the Greek architect of the Fatih Mosque (Atik Sinan or Christodoulos), is known from a grant of Bayazid II. This grant confirms the endowment by Mehmed II of the Greek orthodox Church of Saint Mary of the Mongols, the only church in Istanbul never converted into a mosque, to the mother of Christodoulos (the Bayezid II Mosque's architect's grandmother) in acknowledgment of the two architects' work. Little else is known about the architect other than that he also built a caravansary in Bursa; however, the polished style of the mosque itself indicates experience with earlier Ottoman and western architectural techniques. The surrounding \"külliye\" complex (madrasah, primary school, \"imaret\" (public kitchen) and Vezneciler Hamamı bath house), date from 1501 to 1506.\n\nThe dome was partially rebuilt after an earthquake in 1509, and Mimar Sinan conducted further repairs in 1573–74. The minarets burned separately in 1683 and 1764. An inscription above the courtyard entrance suggests that repairs were also conducted in 1767, as consequence of the earthquake which struck Istanbul one year before..\n\nThe mosque is oriented along the northwest-southeast axis with a courtyard to the northwest with an area almost equal to that of the mosque itself. the courtyard has monumental entrance portals on each side. The courtyard is a colonnaded peristyle, with twenty ancient columns of porphyry, verd antique and granite salvaged from churches and ancient ruins, roofed with 24 small domes, and with a pavement in polychrome marble.\n\nThe mosque itself is approximately square, with a diameter dome. The design is that of a central dome held by two semi-domes along the main axis and two arches running along the secondary axis. The mosque is constructed entirely of cut stone appropriating colored stones and marbles appropriated from nearby Byzantine ruins.\n\nThe interior of the mosque is patterned after the Hagia Sophia on a smaller scale. In addition to the huge central dome, semidomes to the east and west form a nave, whereas to the north and south extend side aisles, each with four small domes which extend the length of the mosque, but which are not divided into galleries. The dome is supported by huge rectangular piers, with smooth pendentives and stalactite decorations. The space is lit with twenty windows at the base of the dome and seven windows on each semi-dome, in addition to two tiers of windows on the walls.\n\nOn the west side, a broad extended corridor extends considerable beyond the main structure of the building. Originally designed as four domed rooms to serve as a hospice for wandering dervishes, the wings were integrated into the prayer hall in the sixteenth century and now consist of three consecutive rooms separated by archways. At the ends of these wings are the two minarets.\n\nBehind the mosque is a small garden, containing the \"türbe\" (tombs) of Sultan Bayezid II, his daughter Selçuk Hatun, and Grand Vizier Koca Mustafa Reşid Pasha. Below the garden is an arcade of shops whose rents were originally intended to support the mosque. This arcade was designed by Mimar Sinan in 1580 and extensively restored in the 1960s. The former public kitchens of the mosque was converted into the State Library of Istanbul by Sultan Abdulhamid II in 1882 and houses over 120,000 books and 7000 manuscripts. Likewise, the former madrasah now houses the Istanbul Municipal Library.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843725", "title": "Columbia and Cowlitz Railway", "text": "Columbia and Cowlitz Railway\n\nThe Columbia and Cowlitz Railway , is a short-line railroad owned by Patriot Rail Corporation, and is headquartered in Longview, Washington. The railroad serves an route from the Weyerhaeuser Company mill in Longview to the junction just outside the city limits of Kelso. From there, traffic is either switched to the Patriot Woods Railroad, formally known as the Weyerhaeuser Woods Railroad, where it is transported to Weyerhaeuser's Green Mountain Sawmill at Toutle or it is switched to the BNSF/Union Pacific joint main line for movement to either Portland, Oregon, or Seattle, Washington.\n\nThe railroad employs thirteen people and hauls around 12,000 carloads a year.\n\nCLC was incorporated on April 9, 1925 and the line was constructed between 1926–1928. The railway was a wholly owned subsidiary of Weyerhaeuser Company until its sale in 2010 to Patriot Rails. Patriot also purchased the Weyerhauser Woods Railroad, changing its name to Patriot Woods Railroad. The two railroads connect and work as one railroad with of track.\n\nThe railway owns a fleet of 500 freight cars including a mix of boxcars, centerbeam lumber cars, and flat cars. The Railroad utilizes seven locomotives. \n\nAll CLC freight cars are painted a navy blue color with white lettering, although some have worn a mineral red color, and the CLC's locomotives are painted navy blue with white lettering and white pinstripes across the top quarter of the bodies and across the frame sill. However, in times past, some of the locomotives also wore Weyerhaeuser's color scheme of yellow and black. The lone caboose is painted safety yellow with black lettering, Weyerhaeuser colors, and seems to be one of Weyerhaeuser's old cabooses, most likely either #1 or #2. A signature safety feature of CLC's locomotives is the blue strobe light on the roof of the locomotives. CLC chooses blue as their safety light color because of the large number of yellow and red flashing safety lights around the Weyerhaeuser mill in Longview.\n\nThe main commodities transported along the rails are newsprint, plywood chips, pulpboard, industrial waste and chemicals. Companies using the railroad services are Weyerhaeuser, Georgia-Pacific, NORPAC, Flexible Foam, Equa-Chlor, PPG Industries, Canexus and Solvay Chemicals.\n"}
{"id": "1843727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843727", "title": "Photuris (protocol)", "text": "Photuris (protocol)\n\nIn computer networking, Photuris is a session key management protocol defined in RFC 2522.\n\nPhoturis is the Latin name of a genus of fireflies native to North America that mimic the signals of other firefly species. The name was chosen as a reference to the (classified) FIREFLY key exchange protocol developed by the National Security Agency and used in the STU-III secure telephone, which is believed to operate by similar principles.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843728", "title": "Photuris (disambiguation)", "text": "Photuris (disambiguation)\n\nPhoturis may refer to:\n"}
{"id": "1843729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843729", "title": "Ogives", "text": "Ogives\n\nThe Ogives are four pieces for piano composed by Erik Satie in the late 1880s. They were published in 1889, and were the first compositions by Satie he did not publish in his father's music publishing house.\nSatie was said to have been inspired by the form of the windows of the Notre Dame Cathedral in Paris when composing the \"Ogives\". An ogive is the curve that forms the outline of a pointed gothic arch.\n\nThe calm, slow melodies of these pieces are built up from paired phrases reminiscent of plainchant. Satie wanted to evoke a large pipe organ reverberating in the depth of a cathedral, and achieved this sonority by using full harmonies, octave doubling and sharply contrasting dynamics.\n\nSatie wrote this music without bar-lines.\n\nAn arrangement of \"Ogive\" No. 2 (incorrectly titled \"Ogive number 1\") was used in William Orbit's 1999 album \"Pieces in a Modern Style\", and subsequently used in the 1999 film \"Human Traffic\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843732", "title": "Discovery Island (Bay Lake)", "text": "Discovery Island (Bay Lake)\n\nDiscovery Island is an island in Bay Lake, Florida. It is located on the property of Walt Disney World in the city of Bay Lake. Between 1974 and 1999, it was an attraction open to guests, who could observe its many species of animals and birds. Disney originally named it \"Treasure Island\", and later renamed it \"Discovery Island\". It currently sits abandoned, but can be seen by any watercraft in Bay Lake. Discovery Island is now the name of one of the lands in Disney's Animal Kingdom.\n\nFrom 1900-1937, the island was known as Raz Island, named after the family that lived there. In the late 1930s, it was purchased for $800 by a man named Delmar \"Radio Nick\" Nicholson, who renamed it \"Idle Bay Isle\" and lived there for 20 years with his wife and pet crane. It was later sold, renamed \"Riles Island,\" and used as a hunting retreat. Disney bought it in 1965 as part of its strategic property acquisitions before building the Walt Disney World Resort.\n\nDelmar lived on the island and grew exotic plants prior to the island's acquisition by Disney.\n\nThe island opened as \"Treasure Island\" on April 8, 1974, as a place to observe wildlife, and was later renamed \"Discovery Island\" when it was recognized as a zoological park. \nThe admission cost in 1995 was $10.60 for adults and $5.83 for children aged three through nine. In March 1999, admission was $12.67, 6.89 for children, including tax. The island's facilities were the home of the last known Dusky Seaside Sparrow before it died in July 1987. In 1989, Disney was accused by People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals of mistreating vultures that landed on Discovery Island. Disney confirmed some of them died while being captured by their employees. Following this allegation, State and Federal officials charged Disney with 16 counts of animal cruelty. These charges were ultimately dropped after Disney made improvements, but did not admit to wrongdoings.\n\nDiscovery Island closed to the public on April 8, 1999, exactly 25 years after its opening. but continued to operate until July 9, 1999, at which point all of its animals had been relocated to Disney's Animal Kingdom (whose Safari Village hub area was renamed Discovery Island) and other zoos. Although Disney never officially stated its reasons for closing the park, poor attendance and high maintenance costs, combined with the newer and bigger Disney's Animal Kingdom being opened a year before, are the most likely causes.\n\nSince its closing, the island has sat largely abandoned, with no signs of development. As of 2020, all original buildings and attractions remain on the island, though several have sustained major damage from hurricanes and natural decay. Disney also considered teaming up with video-game developers, so they could turn the island into a series of puzzles to solve while exploring.\n\nToday, the island can easily be seen from Walt Disney World Monorail, Disney’s Wilderness Lodge, Disney's Contemporary Resort and Disney's Fort Wilderness Resort & Campground, as well as from boat trips between them. It is adjacent to Disney's River Country, which closed in November 2001.\n\nOn April 30, 2020, a man named Richard McGuire from Mobile, Alabama was arrested for camping on Discovery Island during the COVID-19 pandemic. He was subsequently removed from the island and banned from Walt Disney property. He called the island a \"tropical paradise\", and said he did not know the area was off limits to the public.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843733", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843733", "title": "Ferrierite", "text": "Ferrierite\n\nThe ferrierite group of zeolite minerals (the FER structure) consists of three very similar species: ferrierite-Mg, ferrierite-Na, and ferrierite-K, based on the dominant cation in the A location. ferrierite-Mg and ferrierite-K are orthorhombic minerals and ferrierite-Na is monoclinic with highly variable cationic composition, (Na,K)Mg(Si,Al)O(OH)·9HO. Calcium and other ions are often also present. They are found in vitreous to pearly, often radiating, spherical aggregates of thin blade-shaped transparent to translucent crystals.\n\nFerrierite typically occurs as an alteration mineral in basaltic rocks and in tuffaceous sediments. In North America, it is found at Kamloops Lake, BC, Canada (the original type locality) and Leavitt Lake, California. Ferrierite was named for Canadian geologist and mining engineer Walter Frederick Ferrier (1865–1950).\n\nSynthetic ferrierites have even greater cation variability and have important uses as commercial filters and ion-exchange beds.\n\nFerrierite-H can be used as a catalyst in the chemical industry for the acid-catalyzed skeletal isomerization of n-butenes to isobutene, the raw material for production of methyl tert-butyl ether (MTBE).\n\nThe hydrophobic all-silica ferrierite (Si-FER) has very high selectivity in the separation of alcohol–water mixtures, due to the very restrictive shape and space constraints of the FER framework type. At high pressure, Si-FER can achieve the separation of an ethanol–water liquid mixture into supramolecular blocks of its components, namely, ethanol dimer wires and water tetramer squares.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843746", "title": "Hurricane Bertha", "text": "Hurricane Bertha\n\nThe name Bertha has been used for eight tropical cyclones in the Atlantic Ocean.\n\n"}
{"id": "1843757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843757", "title": "Tropical Storm Cristobal", "text": "Tropical Storm Cristobal\n\nThe name Cristobal has been used for three tropical cyclones in the Atlantic Ocean.\n\nThe name \"Cristobal\" replaced the name \"Cesar\" after 1996's Hurricane Cesar caused that name to be retired.\n"}
{"id": "1843758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843758", "title": "Cheong Fatt Tze Mansion", "text": "Cheong Fatt Tze Mansion\n\nThe Cheong Fatt Tze Mansion is a government gazetted heritage building located on Leith Street in George Town, Penang, Malaysia. The mansion's external decorations and indigo-blue outer walls make it a very distinctive building, and it is sometimes referred to as \"The Blue Mansion\". Built by the merchant Cheong Fatt Tze at the end of the 19th century, the mansion has 38 rooms, 5 granite-paved courtyards, 7 staircases and 220 vernacular timber louvre windows. It served as Cheong's private residence as well as the seat of his business activities in Penang.\n\nThe mansion is eclectic, but mainly reflects Chinese architectural styles of the Imperial Period. Features of the house include Gothic louvred windows, Chinese cut and paste porcelain work, Stoke-on-Trent floor tiles made of encaustic clay in geometric pieces all shaped to fit to a perfect square, Glasgow cast iron works by MacFarlane's & Co. and Art Nouveau stained glass windows. The mansion was originally built with careful attention to the principles of Feng Shui. The domestic annexe is built in front of it to prevent any road being built to create a T-junction in front of it; it has water running through a meandering network of pipes that begin from the eaves of the roof, channelled through the upper ceiling, down the walls collecting in the central courtyard before being channelled away from the property via a similar network of pipes, in this case, underneath the entire flooring system and is built with a step in the middle to create a slope (to ride on the dragon's back). The distinctive blue colour of the mansion is the result of mixing lime with natural blue dye made from the indigo plant. The blue was very popular in the Colonial period and the dye was imported from India to Penang by the British. The lime-wash was very effective in a tropical weather as it absorbed moisture and cooled the house whilst dispelling moisture without damage to the structural integrity of the walls. Though white was the most easily available colour, the indigo-blue was chosen because it was highly prized by all communities, adding stature to the mansion.\n\nThe mansion was purchased from Cheong Fatt Tze's descendants in 1989 by a group of local Penang individuals to save the edifice from encroaching development and possible demolition. The property operates as an 18 Room Hotel-cum-museum as part of the adaptive reuse of an ongoing restoration project which has won awards from UNESCO. Tours are offered in English three times a day to central parts of the house. In 2016, a restaurant called 'Indigo' opened on the first floor of the mansion. The mansion has been featured in various films including the 1993 Oscar-winning French film \"Indochine\" starring Catherine Deneuve, \"The Red Kebaya\", \"Road to Dawn\", \"3rd Generation\" and the critically acclaimed \"The Blue Mansion\" in 2009 by Singapore director Glen Goei of \"Forever Fever\" fame. The mansion has also been featured in programs broadcast on various international television channels (CNN, BCC, The History Channel, Discovery Travel & Living). Most recently the mansion served as one of the locations for the Hollywood blockbuster Crazy Rich Asians.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843771", "title": "Extensible Storage Engine", "text": "Extensible Storage Engine\n\nExtensible Storage Engine (ESE), also known as JET Blue, is an ISAM (indexed sequential access method) data storage technology from Microsoft. ESE is the core of Microsoft Exchange Server, Active Directory, and Windows Search. It's also used by a number of Windows components including Windows Update client and Help and Support Center. Its purpose is to allow applications to store and retrieve data via indexed and sequential access.\n\nESE provides transacted data update and retrieval. A crash recovery mechanism is provided so that data consistency is maintained even in the event of a system crash. Transactions in ESE are highly concurrent making ESE suitable for server applications. ESE caches data intelligently to ensure high performance access to data. In addition, ESE is lightweight making it suitable for auxiliary applications.\n\nThe ESE Runtime (ESENT.DLL) has shipped in every Windows release since Windows 2000, with native x64 version of the ESE runtime shipping with x64 versions of Windows XP and Windows Server 2003. Microsoft Exchange, up to Exchange 2003 shipped with only the 32-bit edition, as it was the only supported platform. With Exchange 2007, it ships with the 64-bit edition.\n\nA database is both a physical and logical grouping of data. An ESE database looks like a single file to Windows. Internally the database is a collection of 2, 4, 8, 16, or 32 KB pages (16 and 32 KB page options are only available in Windows 7 and Exchange 2010), arranged in a balanced B-tree structure. These pages contain meta-data to describe the data contained within the database, data itself, indexes to persist interesting orders of the data, and other information. This information is intermixed within the database file but efforts are made to keep data used together clustered together within the database. An ESE database may contain up to 2 pages, or 16 terabytes of data, for 8 kilobyte sized pages.\n\nESE databases are organized into groups called instances. Most applications use a single instance, but all applications can also use multiple instances. The importance of the instance is that it associates a single recovery log series with one or more databases. Currently, up to 6 user databases may be attached to an ESE instance at any time. Each separate process using ESE may have up to 1024 ESE instances.\n\nA database is portable in that it can be detached from one running ESE instance and later attached to the same or a different running instance. While detached, a database may be copied using standard Windows utilities. The database cannot be copied while it is being actively used since ESE opens database files exclusively. A database may physically reside on any device supported for directly addressable I/O operations by Windows.\n\nA table is a homogeneous collection of records, where each record has the same set of columns. Each table is identified by a table name, whose scope is local to the database in which the table is contained. The amount of disk space allocated to a table within a database is determined by a parameter given when the table is created with the CreateTable operation. Tables grow automatically in response to data creation.\n\nTables have one or more indexes. There must be at least one clustered index for record data. When no clustered index is defined by the application, an artificial index is used which orders and clusters records by the chronological order of record insertion. Indexes are defined to persist interesting orders of data, and allow both sequential access to records in index order, and direct access to records by index column values. Clustered indexes in ESE must also be primary, meaning that the index key must be unique.\n\nClustered and non-clustered indexes are represented using B+ trees. If an insert or update operation causes a page to overflow, the page is split: a new page is allocated and is logically chained in between the two previously adjacent pages. Since this new page is not physically adjacent to its logical neighbors, access to it is not as efficient. ESE has an on-line compaction feature that re-compacts data. If a table is expected to be frequently updated, space may be reserved for future insertions by specifying an appropriate page density when creating a table or index. This allows split operations to be avoided or postponed.\n\nA record is an associated set of column values. Records are inserted and updated via Update operations and can be deleted via Delete operations. Columns are set and retrieved via SetColumns and RetrieveColumns operations, respectively. The maximum size of a record is 8110 bytes for 8 kilobyte pages with the exception of long value columns. Column types of LongText and LongBinary do not contribute significantly to this size limitation, and records can hold data much larger than a database page size when data is stored in long value columns. When a long value reference is stored in a record, only 9 bytes of in-record data are required. These long values may themselves be up to 2 gigabytes (GB) in size.\n\nRecords are typically uniform in that each record has a set of values for the same set of columns. In ESE, it is also possible to define many columns for a table, and yet have any given record contain only a small number of non-NULL column values. In this sense, a table can also be a collection of heterogeneous records.\n\nESE supports a wide range of columns values, ranging in size from 1-bit to 2 GB. Choosing the correct column type is important because the type of a column determines many of its properties, including its ordering for indexes. The following data types are supported by ESE:\n\nEach ESE table can define up to 127 fixed length columns, 128 variable length columns and 64,993 tagged columns.\n\nFor a given table, columns fall into one of two categories: those which either occur exactly once in each of the records, with possibly a few NULL values; and those which occur rarely, or which may have multiple occurrences in a single record. Fixed and variable columns belong to the former category, while tagged columns belong to the latter. The internal representation of the two column categories is different, and it is important to understand the trade offs between the column categories. Fixed and variable columns are typically represented in every record, even when the occurrence has a NULL value. These columns can be quickly addressed via an offset table. Tagged column occurrences are preceded by a column identifier and the column is located by binary searching the set of tagged columns.\n\nColumn types of Long Text and Long Binary are large binary objects. They are stored in separate B+tree from the clustered index keyed by long value id and byte offset. ESE supports append, byte range overwrite, and set size for these columns. Also, ESE has a single instance store feature where multiple records may reference the same large binary object, as though each record had its own copy of the information, i.e. without inter-record locking conflicts. The maximum size of a Long Text or Long Binary column value is 2 GB.\n\nVersion columns are automatically incremented by ESE each time a record containing this column is modified via an Update operation. This column cannot be set by the application, but can only be read. Applications of version columns include being used to determine if an in-memory copy of a given record needs to be refreshed. If the value in a table record is greater than the value in a cached copy then the cached copy is known to be out of date. Version columns must be of type Long.\n\nAuto increment columns are automatically set by ESE such that the value contained in the column is unique for every record in the table. These columns, like version columns, cannot be set by the application. Auto increment columns are read only, and are automatically set when a new record is inserted into a table via an Update operation. The value in the column remains constant for the life of the record, and only one auto increment column is allowed per table. Auto increment columns may be of type Long or type Currency .\n\nEscrow columns can be modified via an EscrowUpdate operation. Escrowed updates are numeric delta operations. Escrow columns must be of type Long. Examples of numeric delta operations include adding 2 to a value or subtracting 1 from a value. ESE tracks the change in a value rather than the end value of an update. Multiple sessions may each have outstanding changes made via EscrowUpdate to the same value because ESE can determine the actual end value regardless of which transactions commit and which transactions rollback. This allows multiple users to concurrently update a column by making numeric delta changes. Optionally, database engine can erase records with zero value of the column. A common use for such escrow column is reference counter: many threads increment/decrement the value without locks, and when the counter reaches zero, the record automatically gets deleted.\n\nAn index is a persisted ordering of records in a table. Indexes are used for both sequential access to rows in the order defined, and for direct record navigation based on indexed column values. The order defined by an index is described in terms of an array of columns, in precedence order. This array of columns is also called the index key. Each column is called an index segment. Each index segment may be either ascending or descending, in terms of its ordering contribution. Any number of indexes may be defined for a table. ESE provides a rich set of indexing features.\n\nOne index may be specified as the clustered, or primary, index. In ESE, the clustered index must be unique and is referred to as the primary index. Other indexes are described as non-clustered, or secondary, indexes. Primary indexes are different from secondary indexes in that the index entry is the record itself, and not a logical pointer to the record. Secondary indexes have primary keys at their leaves to logically link to the record in the primary index. In other words, the table is physically clustered in primary index order. Retrieval of non-indexed record data in primary index order is generally much faster than in secondary index order. This is because a single disk access can bring into memory multiple records that will be access close together in time. The same disk access satisfies multiple record access operations. However, the insertion of a record into the middle of an index, as determined by the primary index order, may be very much slower than appending it to the end of an index. Update frequency must be carefully considered against retrieval patterns when performing table design. If no primary index is defined for a table, then an implicit primary index, called a database key (DBK) index is created. The DBK is simply a unique ascending number incremented each time a record is inserted. As a result, the physical order of records in a DBK index is chronological insertion order, and new records are always added at the end of the table. If an application wishes to cluster data on a non-unique index, this is possible by adding an autoincrement column to the end of the non-unique index definition.\n\nIndexes can be defined over multi-valued columns. Multiple entries may exist in these indexes for records with multiple values for the indexed column. Multi-valued columns may be indexed in conjunction with single valued columns. When two or more multi-valued columns are indexed together, then the multi-valued property is only honored for the first multi-value column in the index. Lower precedence columns are treated as though they were single valued.\n\nIndexes can also be defined to be sparse. Sparse indexes do not have at least one entry for each record in the table. There are a number of options in defining a sparse index. Options exist to exclude records from indexes when an entire index key is NULL, when any key segment is NULL or when just the first key segment is NULL. Indexes can also have conditional columns. These columns never appear within an index but can cause a record not to be indexed when the conditional column is either NULL or non-NULL.\n\nIndexes can also be defined to include one entry for each sub-string of a Text or Long Text column. These indexes are called tuple indexes. They are used to speed queries with sub-string matching predicates. Tuple indexes can only be defined for Text columns. For example, if a Text column value is \"“I love JET Blue”\", and the index is configured to have a minimum tuple size of 4 characters and a maximum tuple length of 10 characters, then the following sub-strings will be indexed:\n\nEven though tuple indexes can be very large, they can significantly speed queries of the form: \"find all records containing “JET Blue”\". They can be used for sub-strings longer than the maximum tuple length by dividing the search sub-string into maximum tuple length search strings and intersecting the results. They can be used for exact matches for strings as long as the maximum tuple length or as short as the minimum tuple length, with no index intersection. For more information on performing index intersection in ESE see Index Intersection. Tuple indexes cannot speed queries where the search string is shorter than the minimum tuple length.\n\nA transaction is a logical unit of processing delimited by BeginTransaction and CommitTransaction, or Rollback, operations. All updates performed during a transaction are atomic; they either all appear in the database at the same time or none appear. Any subsequent updates by other transactions are invisible to a transaction. However, a transaction can update only data that has not changed in the meantime; else the operation fails at once without waiting. Read-only transactions never need to wait, and update transactions can interfere only with one another updating transaction. Transactions which are terminated by Rollback, or by a system crash, leave no trace on the database. In general, the data state is restored on Rollback to what it was prior to BeginTransaction.\n\nTransactions may be nested up to 7 levels, with one additional level reserved for ESE internal use. This means that a part of a transaction may be rolled back, without need to roll back the entire transaction; a CommitTransaction of a nested transaction merely signifies the success of one phase of processing, and the outer transaction may yet fail. Changes are committed to the database only when the outermost transaction is committed. This is known as committing to transaction level 0. When the transaction commits to transaction level 0, data describing the transaction is synchronously flushed to the log to ensure that the transaction will be completed even in the event of a subsequent system crash. Synchronously flushing the log makes ESE transactions durable. However, in some cases application wish to order their updates, but not immediately guarantee that changes will be done. Here, applications can commit changes with JET_bitIndexLazyFlush.\n\nESE supports a concurrency control mechanism called multi-versioning. In multi-versioning, every transaction queries a consistent view of the entire database as it was at the time the transaction started. The only updates it encounters are those made by it. In this way, each transaction operates as though it was the only active transaction running on the system, except in the case of write conflicts. Since a transaction may make changes based on data read that has already been updated in another transaction, multi-versioning by itself does not guarantee serializable transactions. However, serializability can be achieved when desired by simply using explicit record read locks to lock read data that updates are based upon. Both read and write locks may be explicitly requested with the GetLock operation.\n\nIn addition, an advanced concurrency control feature known as escrow locking is supported by ESE. Escrow locking is an extremely concurrent update where a numeric value is changed in a relative fashion, i.e. by adding or subtracting another numeric value. Escrow updates are non-conflicting even with other concurrent escrow updates to the same datum. This is possible because the operations supported are commutable and can be independently committed or rolled back. As a result, they do not interfere with concurrent update transactions. This feature is often used for maintained aggregations.\n\nESE also extends transaction semantics from data manipulation operations to data definition operations. It is possible to add an index to a table and have concurrently running transactions update the same table without any transaction lock contention whatsoever. Later, when these transactions are complete, the newly created index is available to all transactions and has entries for record updates made by other transactions that could not perceive the presence of the index when the updates took place. Data definition operations may be performed with all the features expected of the transaction mechanism for record updates. Data definition operations supported in this fashion include AddColumn, DeleteColumn, CreateIndex, DeleteIndex, CreateTable and DeleteTable.\n\nA cursor is a logical pointer within a table index. The cursor may be positioned on a record, before the first record, after the last record or even between records. If a cursor is positioned before or after a record, there is no current record. It is possible to have multiple cursors into the same table index. Many record and column operations are based on the cursor position. Cursor position can be moved sequentially by Move operations or directly using index keys with Seek operations. Cursors can also be moved to a fractional position within an index. In this way, the cursor can be quickly moved to a thumb bar position. This operation is performed with the same speed as a Seek operation. No intervening data must be accessed.\n\nEach cursor has a copy buffer in order to create a new record, or modify an existing record, column by column. This is an internal buffer whose contents can be changed with SetColumns operations. Modifications of the copy buffer do not automatically change the stored data. The contents of the current record can be copied into the copy buffer using the PrepareUpdate operation, and Update operations store the contents of the copy buffer as a record. The copy buffer is implicitly cleared on a transaction commit or rollback, as well as on navigation operations. RetrieveColumns may be used to retrieve column data either from the record or from the copy buffer, if one exists.\n\nESE applications invariably query their data. This section of the document describes features and techniques for applications to write query procession logic on ESE.\n\nESE provides a sort capability in the form of temporary tables. The application inserts data records into the sort process one record at a time, and then retrieves them one record at a time in sorted order. Sorting is actually performed between the last record insertion and the first record retrieval. Temporary tables can be used for partial and complete result sets as well. These tables can offer the same features as base tables including the ability to navigate sequentially or directly to rows using index keys matching the sort definition. Temporary tables can also be updatable for computation of complex aggregates. Simple aggregates can be computed automatically with a feature similar to sorting where the desired aggregate is a natural result of the sort process.\n\nRetrieving column data directly from secondary indexes is an important performance optimization. Columns may be retrieved directly from secondary indexes, without accessing the data records, via the RetrieveFromIndex flag on the RetrieveColumns operation. It is much more efficient to retrieve columns from a secondary index, than from the record, when navigating by the index. If the column data were retrieved from the record, then an additional navigation is necessary to locate the record by the primary key. This may result in additional disk accesses. When an index provides all columns needed then it is called a covering index. Note that columns defined in the table primary index are also found in secondary indexes and can be similarly retrieved using JET_bitRetrieveFromPrimaryBookmark.\n\nIndex keys are stored in normalized form which can be, in many cases, denormalized to the original column value. Normalization is not always reversible. For example, Text and Long Text column types cannot be denormalized . In addition, index keys may be truncated when column data is very long. In cases where columns cannot be retrieved directly from secondary indexes, the record can always be accessed to retrieve the necessary data.\n\nQueries often involve a combination of restrictions on data. An efficient means of processing a restriction is to use an available index. However, if a query involves multiple restrictions then applications often process the restrictions by walking the full index range of the most restrictive predicate satisfied by a single index. Any remaining predicate, called the residual predicate, is processed by applying the predicate to the record itself. This is a simple method but has the disadvantage of potentially having to perform many disk accesses to bring records into memory to apply the residual predicate.\n\nIndex intersection is an important query mechanism in which multiple indexes are used together to more efficiently process a complex restriction. Instead using only a single index, index ranges on multiple indexes are combined to result in a much smaller number of records on which any residual predicate can be applied. ESE makes this easy by supplying an IntersectIndexes operation. This operation accepts a series of index ranges on indexes from the same table and returns a temporary table of primary keys that can be used to navigate to the base table records that satisfy all index predicates.\n\nA join is a common operation on a normalized table design, where logically related data is brought back together for use in an application. Joins can be expensive operations because many data accesses may be needed to bring related data into memory. This effort can be optimized in some cases by defining a single base table that contains data for two or more logical tables. The column set of the base table is the union of the column sets of these logical tables. Tagged columns make this possible because of their good handling of both multi-valued and sparse valued data. Since related data is stored together in the same record, it is accessed together thereby minimizing the number of disk accesses to perform the join. This process can be extended to a large number of logical tables as ESE can support up to 64,993 tagged columns. Since indexes can be defined over multi-valued columns, it is still possible to index ‘interior’ tables. However, some limitations exist and applications should consider pre-joining carefully before employing this technique.\n\nThe logging and recovery feature of ESE supports guaranteed data integrity and consistency in the event of a system crash. Logging is the process of redundantly recording database update operations in a log file. The log file structure is very robust against system crashes. Recovery is the process of using this log to restore databases to a consistent state after a system crash.\n\nTransaction operations are logged and the log is flushed to disk during each commit to transaction level 0. This allows the recovery process to redo updates made by transactions which commit to transaction level 0, and undo changes made by transactions which did not commit to transaction level 0. This type of recovery scheme is often referred to as a ‘roll-forward/roll-backward’ recovery scheme. Logs can be retained until the data is safely copied via a backup process described below, or logs can be reused in a circular fashion as soon as they are no longer needed for recovery from system crash. Circular logging minimizes the amount of disk space needed for the log but has implications on the ability to recreate a data state in the event of a media failure.\n\nLogging and recovery also play a role in protecting data from media failure. ESE supports on-line backup where one or more databases are copied, along with log files in a manner that does not affect database operations. Databases can continue to be queried and updated while the backup is being made. The backup is referred to as a ‘fuzzy backup’ because the recovery process must be run as part of backup restoration to restore a consistent set of databases. Both streaming and shadow copy backup are supported.\n\nStreaming backup is a backup method where copies of all desired database files and the necessary log files are made during the backup process. File copies may be saved directly to tape or can be made to any other storage device. No quiescing of activity of any kind is required with streamed backups. Both the database and log files are check summed to ensure that no data corruptions exist within the data set during the backup process. Streaming backups may also be incremental backups. Incremental backups are ones in which only the log files are copied and which can be restored along with a previous full backup to bring all databases to a recent state.\n\nShadow copy backups are a new high speed backup method. Shadow copy backups are dramatically faster because the copy is virtually made after a brief period of quiescing an application. As subsequent updates are made to the data, the virtual copy is materialized. In some cases, hardware support for shadow copy backups means that actually saving the virtual copies is unnecessary. Shadow copy backups are always full backups.\n\nRestore can be used to apply a single backup, or it can be used to apply a combination of a single full backup with one or more incremental backups. Further, any existing log files can be replayed as well to recreate an entire data set all the way up to the last transaction logged as committed to transaction level 0. Restoration of a backup can be made to any system capable of supporting the original application. It need not be the same machine, or even the same machine configuration. Location of files can be changed as part of the restoration process.\nWhen an ESENT database is created, the physical disk sector size is stored with the database. The physical sector size is expected to remain consistent between sessions; otherwise, an error is reported. When a physical drive is cloned or restored from a drive image to a drive that uses a different physical sector size (Advanced Format Drives), ESENT will report errors. \n\nThis is a known issue and Microsoft has hot fixes available. For Windows Vista or Windows Server 2008 see KB2470478. For Windows 7 or Windows Server 2008 R2 see KB982018.\n\nJET Blue was originally developed by Microsoft as a prospective upgrade for the JET Red database engine in Microsoft Access, but was never used in this role. Instead, it went on to be used by Exchange Server, Active Directory, File Replication Service (FRS), Security Configuration Editor, Certificate Services, Windows Internet Name Service (WINS) and a host of other Microsoft services, applications and Windows components. For years, it was a private API used by Microsoft only, but has since become a published API that anyone can use.\n\nWork began on Data Access Engine (DAE) in March 1989 when Allen Reiter joined Microsoft. Over the next year a team of four developers worked for Allen to largely complete the ISAM. Microsoft already had the BC7 ISAM (JET Red) but began the Data Access Engine (DAE) effort to build a more robust database engine as an entry in the then new client-server architecture realm. In the spring of 1990, BC7 ISAM and DAE teams were joined to become the Joint Engine Technology (JET) effort; responsible for producing two engines a v1 (JET Red) and a v2 (JET Blue) that would conform to the same API specification (JET API). DAE became JET Blue for the color of the flag of Israel. BC7 ISAM became JET Red for the color of the flag of Russia. While JET Blue and JET Red were written to the same API specification, they shared no ISAM code whatsoever. They did both support a common query processor, QJET, which later together with the BC7 ISAM became synonymous with JET Red.\n\nJET Blue first shipped in 1994 as an ISAM for WINS, DHCP, and the now defunct RPL services in Windows NT 3.5. It shipped again as the storage engine for Microsoft Exchange in 1996. Additional Windows services chose JET Blue as their storage technology and by 2000 every version of Windows began to ship with JET Blue. JET Blue was used by Active Directory and became part of a special set of Windows code called the Trusted Computing Base (TCB). The number of Microsoft applications using JET Blue continues to grow and the JET Blue API was published in 2005 to facilitate usage by an ever-increasing number of applications and services both within and beyond Windows.\n\nA Microsoft Exchange Web Blog entry stated that developers who have contributed to JET Blue include\nCheen Liao, Stephen Hecht, Matthew Bellew, Ian Jose, Edward \"Eddie\" Gilbert, Kenneth Kin Lum, Balasubramanian Sriram, Jonathan Liem, Andrew Goodsell, Laurion Burchall, Andrei Marinescu, Adam Foxman, Ivan Trindev, Spencer Low and Brett Shirley.\n\nWhile they share a common lineage, there are vast differences between JET Red and ESE.\n\n"}
{"id": "1843777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843777", "title": "Brownian bridge", "text": "Brownian bridge\n\nA Brownian bridge is a continuous-time stochastic process \"B\"(\"t\") whose probability distribution is the conditional probability distribution of a Wiener process \"W\"(\"t\") (a mathematical model of Brownian motion) subject to the condition (when standardized) that \"W\"(T) = 0, so that the process is pinned at the origin at both \"t=0\" and \"t=T\". More precisely:\n\nThe expected value of the bridge is zero, with variance formula_2, implying that the most uncertainty is in the middle of the bridge, with zero uncertainty at the nodes. The covariance of \"B\"(\"s\") and \"B\"(\"t\") is \"s\"(T − \"t\")/T if \"s\" < \"t\".\nThe increments in a Brownian bridge are not independent.\n\nIf \"W\"(\"t\") is a standard Wiener process (i.e., for \"t\" ≥ 0, \"W\"(\"t\") is normally distributed with expected value 0 and variance \"t\", and the increments are stationary and independent), then\n\nis a Brownian bridge for \"t\" ∈ [0, T]. It is independent of \"W\"(T)\n\nConversely, if \"B\"(\"t\") is a Brownian bridge and \"Z\" is a standard normal random variable independent of \"B\", then the process\n\nis a Wiener process for \"t\" ∈ [0, 1]. More generally, a Wiener process \"W\"(\"t\") for \"t\" ∈ [0, \"T\"] can be decomposed into\n\nAnother representation of the Brownian bridge based on the Brownian motion is, for \"t\" ∈ [0, T]\n\nConversely, for \"t\" ∈ [0, ∞]\n\nThe Brownian bridge may also be represented as a Fourier series with stochastic coefficients, as\n\nwhere formula_9 are independent identically distributed standard normal random variables (see the Karhunen–Loève theorem).\n\nA Brownian bridge is the result of Donsker's theorem in the area of empirical processes. It is also used in the Kolmogorov–Smirnov test in the area of statistical inference.\n\nA standard Wiener process satisfies \"W\"(0) = 0 and is therefore \"tied down\" to the origin, but other points are not restricted. In a Brownian bridge process on the other hand, not only is \"B\"(0) = 0 but we also require that \"B\"(T) = 0, that is the process is \"tied down\" at \"t\" = \"T\" as well. Just as a literal bridge is supported by pylons at both ends, a Brownian Bridge is required to satisfy conditions at both ends of the interval [0,T]. (In a slight generalization, one sometimes requires \"B\"(\"t\") = \"a\" and \"B\"(\"t\") = \"b\" where \"t\", \"t\", \"a\" and \"b\" are known constants.)\n\nSuppose we have generated a number of points \"W\"(0), \"W\"(1), \"W\"(2), \"W\"(3), etc. of a Wiener process path by computer simulation. It is now desired to fill in additional points in the interval [0,T], that is to interpolate between the already generated points \"W\"(0) and \"W\"(T). The solution is to use a Brownian bridge that is required to go through the values \"W\"(0) and \"W\"(T).\n\nFor the general case when \"B\"(\"t\") = \"a\" and \"B\"(\"t\") = \"b\", the distribution of \"B\" at time \"t\" ∈ (\"t\", \"t\") is normal, with mean\n\nand the covariance between \"B\"(\"s\") and \"B\"(\"t\"), with \"s\" < \"t\" is\n\n"}
{"id": "1843778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843778", "title": "Tropical Storm Dolly", "text": "Tropical Storm Dolly\n\nThe name Dolly has been used for eight tropical cyclones in the Northern Atlantic Ocean:\n\nThe name Dolly, despite extensive damage in Texas in 2008, was not retired and is on the list for the 2020 season. It was originally a replacement for Dora, but the name \"Dolly\" became a replacement for Diana after the 1990 season.\n\nIn the Northwestern Pacific Ocean:\n\nIn the Southeastern Indian Ocean:\n\nIn the Southwestern Indian Ocean:\n"}
{"id": "1843792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843792", "title": "Hurricane Edouard", "text": "Hurricane Edouard\n\nThe name Edouard has been used for six tropical cyclones in the Atlantic Ocean.\n\n"}
{"id": "1843802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843802", "title": "Kampong Glam", "text": "Kampong Glam\n\nKampong Glam (Malay: Kampung Gelam; Jawi alphabet: كامڤوڠ ڬلم ; ; Tamil: கம்ப்பொங் கிலாம்) is a neighbourhood and ethnic enclave in Singapore. It is located north of the Singapore River, in the planning area of Rochor, known as the Malay-Muslim quarter.\n\nThe name of the area is thought to be derived from the cajeput tree, called \"gelam\" in Malay. \"Kampong\" (modern spelling \"kampung\") simply means \"village\".\n\nPrior to colonisation by the British in 1819, the area was home to the Malay aristocracy of Singapore. It became prominent and more populous after the signing of a treaty between the British East India Company, Sultan Hussein Shah of Johor and Temenggong Abdul Rahman in 1819. The company was given the right to set up a trading post in Singapore under this treaty.\n\nDuring the colony's early history, under the Raffles Plan of 1822, the settlement was divided according to different ethnic groups which included European Town, Chinese, \"Chulia\", Arab and Bugis kampongs. Kampong Glam was designated for the Sultan and his household, as well as the Malay and Arab communities, many of whom were merchants. It was situated east of what was then the European Town.\n\nWhile the Temenggong and his followers settled in Telok Blangah, Sultan Hussein, his family and followers settled in Kampong Glam. In return, the Sultan was given large areas of land for residential use in Kampong Glam under the treaty. The land was allocated to the Malays and other Muslim immigrants to Singapore, including the Malays from Malacca, the Riau Islands and Sumatra in Indonesia. It also included the Baweanese, Banjarese, Chinese and Indians.\n\nThe second half of the nineteenth century saw the rapid growth of immigrant communities in Kampong Glam, initially from Sumatra, and later from other parts of Indonesia and Malaya. This resulted in the setting up of different kampongs, like Kampong Malacca, Kampong Java and Kampong Bugis. There were also a small but successful Arab community of traders in the area.\n\nIn the early twentieth century, commercial activities in Kampong Glam expanded as new shop houses and residential buildings were built. A multi-ethnic community soon developed there, comprising not only Malays and Arabs but also the Chinese and Indians.\n\nLater, due to an expansion of commercial activities and an increase in immigrant settlers in Kampong Glam, the Arabs moved to areas like Joo Chiat, Tanglin and Bukit Tunggal (the stretch of Dunearn Road near the junction of Balmoral Road and Chancery Lane, near Anglo-Chinese School (Barker Road) today, was called Tunggal Road).\n\nBy the early 1920s, many Malays also moved out to designated resettlement areas in Geylang Serai and Kampong Eunos.\n\nToday, Kampong Glam still retains strong ties to the Native-Malay and Muslim community and has sometimes been termed the \"Muslim Quarter\" due to its history. The Muslim population still remains a significant presence in Kampong Glam, especially in Bussorah Street. The area remains a centre for Muslim activities and the Sultan Mosque remains a major landmark and congregation point for the Singapore Muslims.\n\nLike Little India and Chinatown, Kampong Glam has been restored, refurbished and new life breathed into it, bringing back the former colour and vibrancy of the area. Rows of conserved shophouses can be found in Haji Lane, Arab Street, Baghdad Street and Bussorah Street. Many of these shophouses have new tenants such as design and IT firms, art galleries, crafts and curiosity shops, food caterers, cafes, bars and restaurants. They blend in with traditional businesses like textile and carpet shops, blacksmiths and shops selling religious items used by Muslims. It is also an area of good restaurants, from Malaysian coffee shops and bakeries to fine modern European dining, like Le Pont De Vie.\n\nOn 16 December 2006, a fire broke out at four shophouses at Sultan Gate at 2145 (SST) with the four shophouses destroyed by the fire. It nearly spread to nearby food and beverage outlets in the vicinity. Of the four shophouses destroyed, two were vacant, one was a blacksmith shop and the other a shoe shop. Firefighters controlled the fire by surrounding it as it spread through the roof. According to eyewitnesses, the fire started from the second floor of the blacksmith shop. The blacksmith shop is one of the oldest types of shophouses in Singapore which was used for educational tours. It is the last blacksmith shop in the area. \n\nBeginning from the 1959 general elections, Kampong Glam was a division of its own called Kampong Glam Single Member Constituency where the Member of Parliament (MP) seat was held by Former Deputy Prime Minister S. Rajaratnam until 1988 when Loh Meng See took over and served until 2006.\n\nHowever, after the 1991 general elections, Kampong Glam SMC along with several neighbouring wards were absorbed into the bigger Kampong Glam Group Representation Constituency which existed for only one term and the ruling party People's Action Party had won the seats on the nomination day itself.\n\nSubsequently, in the 1997 general elections, Kampong Glam GRC was disbanded and Kampong Glam's electoral division was reverted to Kampong Glam SMC with single-member representation that lasted until the 2001 general election whereby the redrawing of electoral boundaries saw it absorbed into Jalan Besar Group Representation Constituency, which includes parts of the Downtown Core.\n\nLoh has since retired from politics by 2006 general election and the current MP is Denise Phua who represents Jalan Besar GRC. In the 2011 general elections, Jalan Besar GRC was dissolved and became part of the newly created Moulmein-Kallang Group Representation Constituency; Edwin Tong has since taken over the helm. But in 2015, Jalan Besar GRC was revived and both Denise Phua and Dr Yaacob Ibrahim took over the helm of the entire GRC and Edwin Tong was transferred to Marine Parade GRC's Joo Chiat ward.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843805", "title": "Daily Yamazaki", "text": "Daily Yamazaki\n\nDaily Yamazaki is a convenience store franchise chain in Japan established on December 21, 1977. The convenience store chain is owned by Yamazaki Baking Co., Ltd, Japan's largest baking company. Daily Yamazaki sells baked goods such as bread, pastries, and other confectioneries in both traditional Japanese and Western styles. They also carry magazines, manga comic books, soft drinks, onigiri, bento, and other goods.\n\nIts top competitors are Lawson, 7-Eleven and FamilyMart.\n\n"}
{"id": "1843812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843812", "title": "Terry Sweeney", "text": "Terry Sweeney\n\nTerry Sweeney is an American artist, actor, and writer. He was a writer and cast member of \"Saturday Night Live\" in the 1980s, co-wrote the 1989 film \"Shag\", and has written for the television \"series MADtv\", \"Hype\", and \"Tripping the Rift\".\n\nTerrence (Terry) Sweeney was born on March 23, 1951 in Queens, New York and raised in Massapequa Park, New York as the younger of two children to Terrence, a butcher, and Lenore Sweeney. As a child, he was bullied and found solace in books and movie musicals as well as in performing his own Broadway plays. At a young age, his interest in the performing arts grew and he became a star of the high school talent show. He graduated Farmingdale High School in 1969 and attended Middlebury College, where he continued his studies in Spanish and Italian, and graduated in 1973 with a bachelor of arts degree.\n\nSweeney is best known for his appearances as a regular cast member of \"Saturday Night Live\" (\"SNL\") during that program's 1985–86 season. After college, Sweeney started out doing edgy performance art as various drag characters at multiple New York City venues. A rave \"New York Times\" review of \"Banned in France\" led to an audition at \"SNL\" for the series producer Lorne Michaels. Sweeney, who is not related to fellow \"SNL\" alumna Julia Sweeney, was also a sketch writer for \"SNL\" during the early 1980s under producer Jean Doumanian prior to being hired as a member of the cast.\n\nNot only was he \"SNL\"'s first openly gay male cast member but he was the first openly gay series regular on network television; Sweeney was \"out\" prior to being hired as a cast member. Sweeney's run on the show came at a time when there were few openly gay characters or actors on television, and with Danitra Vance (a lesbian of color whose sexuality wasn't known until her death in 1994), also marked the first time \"Saturday Night Live\" had two people on the LGBTQ+ spectrum as cast members. For roughly 27 years, there were no other openly gay cast members on \"SNL\", until Kate McKinnon (a former cast member of Logo's \"The Big Gay Sketch Show\") was added to the cast in April 2012.\n\nDuring his season on \"SNL\", he became known for his celebrity impersonations, particularly female impersonations of stars like Diana Ross, Patti LaBelle, Joan Collins, Brooke Shields's mother Teri Shields, and Joan Rivers, as well as Ted Kennedy (the only male celebrity he impersonated). His most notable recurring character was a portrayal of then-First Lady Nancy Reagan; While at \"SNL\", he faced many hardships from both the writers and cast because of his sexuality, especially from Chevy Chase. Sweeney was told by Ron Reagan, who hosted one of that season's episodes, that he was \"more like his mother than she is.\"\n\nSweeney has written for the FOX TV series \"MADtv\", The WB's short-lived sketch comedy series \"Hype\" (and co-created), and Sci Fi Channel's \"Tripping the Rift\", among a few others, all with his partner, Lanier Laney. Sweeney's major film credit was as the co-screenwriter for the film \"Shag\", which was released in 1989. Sweeney also performed a stand-up routine for the special \"Coming Out Party\" in 2000. He is the author of two published books. The first, \"Nancy Reagan: It's Still My Turn\" (1990) which started as performance art piece at Highways in Santa Monica, and transferred to New York's the Actor's Playhoue Off Broadway. His second book, \"Irritable Bowels and the People Who Give You Them\" (2015), is a collection of comic essays about his life in Hollywood. In 2018 he appeared in two episodes of FX's Emmy Award-winning\"\" as David Gallo.\n\n\nTerry Sweeney's husband is Lanier Laney, an artist and comedy writer who also wrote for \"SNL\" in the 1985–1986 season. According to a 2000 magazine article, they first met as members of a sketch comedy troupe called the \"Bess Truman Players\" before joining \"SNL\". Laney and Sweeney were also writing partners for \"Saturday Night Live\" during the 1985–1986 season, the film \"Shag\", and the Syfy Channel cartoon \"Tripping the Rift\". As of 2012, the couple reside in Los Angeles and Beaufort, South Carolina.\n"}
{"id": "1843814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843814", "title": "Drum major (marching band)", "text": "Drum major (marching band)\n\nA drum major or field commander is the leader of a marching band, drum and bugle corps, or pipe band, usually positioned at the head of the band or corps. The drum major is often dressed in more ornate clothing than the rest of the band or corps and is responsible for providing commands to the ensemble, leading them while marching, and directing them what to play, when to play, and what time to keep. The commands may be given verbally, through hand gestures, using a whistle or a baton, or with a mace.\n\nIn addition, they serve as the liaison between the band director and the band. Essentially, a drum major is the leader who keeps the tempo with the use of a baton or other forms of time-keeping, such as conducting. The drum major often holds the responsibility to keep the band organized and structured.\n\nThe position of drum major originated in the British Army with the Corps of Drums in 1650. Military groups performed mostly duty calls and battle signals during that period, and a fife and drum corps, directed by the drum major, would use short pieces to communicate to field units. With the arrival of military concert bands and pipe bands around the 18th century, the position of the drum major was adapted to those ensembles.\n\nTraditionally, a military drum major was responsible for:\n\nThe drum major was also given duties in the battalion at several points in history, which included the administering of military justice (flogging) to any member of the battalion, and collecting the battalion's post.\n\nIn addition to the duties above, the British Army also included a royal appointment of Drum Major General, whose duties included inspecting all other Field Music as well as (per The Drummer's Handbook) granting drummers licenses without which, one would not be recognized as a drummer. This position faded in the 18th century.\nDrum majors are responsible for knowing the music of the ensemble and conducting it appropriately. While also knowing the tempo the drum major has to know what specific pattern he or she needs to perform in order to accommodate physical stamina or musical style.\n\n\nDrum majors may each have a different style of conducting. Some may be smoother, but others are more rigid. The most commonly used pattern is called the \"Down-in-out-up\" pattern. The pattern is shown by the first beat being straight down and normal. The second beat goes down then after the focal point it goes in a 45 degree angle to the inside. The third beat is when the arm is coming back from the angle to the focal point at the angle and hits the point and goes to the outside at the same 45 degree angle. The last beat, fourth, goes from the outside angle back to the focal point. Then the process repeats. It is typical for drum majors to use smaller, simpler patterns to accommodate faster tempos for endurance and clarity, emphasizing beats 1 and 3 and minimizing beats 2 and 4.\n\nWhat is \"appropriate\" conducting has evolved over the decades. During the 1970s and prior it was not uncommon for a stationary drum major to do a high-lift mark time on the podium for an audible and visual tempo; with the arrival of increasingly higher drum major platforms and thus greater visibility this has become both dangerous and unnecessary. Current drum majors use a variety of conducting patterns and styles that suit the needs of their respective marching bands and/or drum corps.\n\nIn addition to memorizing the music (between six and nine minutes of music is typical for high school marching bands, college bands and drum corps may have that much or more, up to more than eleven minutes of music) a drum major must memorize dynamics as well as tempo in order to provide proper direction and cues, particularly in area where the drum major has some discretion, such as a ritardando or fermata.\n\nDrum majors have slightly different roles within the world of traditional show bands. Many college bands have drum majors who are very much part of the visual element of a field show. Rather than conduct as a corps-style drum major would, traditional drum majors often march on the field with the band, using a mace or baton to keep time and flourish their own movements. Drum majors in the Big Ten and HBCUs have a particularly prominent role. While most of them do not conduct as much as a corps drum major, they lead the band onto the field, often after having several seconds for a short performance by themselves (a drum major backbend is traditional in many schools). During dance routines, they often move along with the bands. As traditional drum majors have much more of a visual role than corps drum majors, there are often many more of them, sometimes up to ten drum majors to a single band.\n\nThe drum major position is one of leadership, instruction, and group representation, but usually not administrative duties. A band director or corps director assumes administrative responsibility. In the absence of the band director, the drum major often carries the authority of the director or instructor and assumes complete leadership over the band.\n\nThere are a number of specialized pieces of equipment that drum majors use to more effectively execute their duties. These include a whistle, a mace or baton, their uniform, and podium(s).\n\nIn British and European tradition, a drum major usually wears the same uniform as the rest of the band with the additional of a diagonal sash.\n\nDrum majors of marching bands in the United States often wear a uniform different from the rest of the band (which may either be a show-specific uniform, or a custom uniform based on the school's uniform or colors) and is a slight modification of the standard uniform. It can be as simple as extra shoulder decorations, a cape, different-colored plumes, or a chain on the helmet, or as complicated as a specialized chest section, and is designed to both help the drum major stand out when coming onto the field and to give distinction to the leader of the band. Some high school drum majors do not wear a different uniform, however, and are recognized by their field or parade position. It is mostly a director's discretion, and is more common only on the high school level.\n\nCivilian brass bands and pipe bands generally use a mace for giving signals and commands while marching. As marching bands in the United States have started to focus more directly on halftime shows and less on parades, the traditional use of the mace has largely vanished from high school and college marching bands, in preference of hand movements, occasionally with the use of a conductor's baton or whistle.\n\nWhen a band is not marching, the drum major may conduct the band from a stage using a baton.\n\nA marching band show (high school and college) usually begins with a hand salute from the drum major(s). Salutes range in complexity from a simple hand-gesture to complicated routines involving many members of the band. The salute is traditionally the beginning of judging in a competition, and also signals the end of a band's show. A drum major is also responsible for calling the band to attention, beginning, and conducting the show. The drum major may use a whistle, vocal, or hand commands to accomplish this. This practice goes back to the military origins of the marching or field band.\n\nA marching band review (parade) begins like a field show. Because of the street setting, there are usually no change in formations. Scoring is similar to a field show, however there is an added section specifically on the drum major's performance. The drum major is scored based on the execution of the opening routine, salute routine, beating time, vocal, whistle, and hand commands, and overall control of the band.\n\nTo see one to three drum majors in most ensembles is typical. In some ensembles, drum majors switch positions during the show to allow all individuals a chance to conduct from the central podium. Occasionally, they may also serve in other capacities such as performing a solo, in which case one or two band directors would conduct the band temporarily until the drum major(s) would finish their/his/her solo.\nA marching band or drum corps drum major (field conductor) is in charge of holding the band or corps together, and directing the entire band or corps during shows and competitions. This drum major can come from any section of the performing unit: percussion, winds, or color guard. They are chosen on their musical abilities, leadership qualities, attitude, and passion for the sport. The Drum Major is the highest-ranked band participant, usually followed by the captain(s) of the drumline, then by guard captain(s), pit captain(s) horn sergeant(s), section leaders and band officers.\n\nIn military bands, such as the Fightin' Texas Aggie Band or Highty-Tighties, drum majors are senior officers who are responsible for discipline and order of the band off the field, in addition to performance duties. They often command the band as an independent unit even off the playing field, and are treated according to their rank. In these bands, drum majors also march on the field and frequently use maces. Uniforms are in traditional military style; consequently, drum majors are distinguished by rank and unit insignia or distinguishing uniform modifications. For example, a drum major of the aforementioned Aggie Band could be recognized by his prominent wear of a whistle and chain, which is worn with the uniform even when not performing band-related duties. (Similar clothing in other bands may include sashes, unique headwear, or differently colored uniforms.) An example can be seen .\n\nBased on how large the band is, high school marching bands have anywhere from one to four drum majors who are responsible for conducting and leading the band. Drum majors are often ranked, so that the head drum major occupies the center position during the entire show, or each drum major takes turns as the 'central' drum major by standing on a platform placed on the 50-yard line, while the other two are placed on the 30-yard or 40-yard lines. Any other majors are placed on yard lines closer to the end zone, or to the rear of the band for about-turn maneuvers. A member of the on-field band may take a position as drum major temporarily if the band's movements require an additional drum major in the front or back or if the lead drum major performs. Some drum majors serve as leadership positions and can conduct, but prefer to march. These drum majors serve as replacements in case one or more of the permanent drum majors (usually older members of the band) can't make it to a performance, but still continue to practice their conducting abilities. Depending upon the region, field conducting may be done by the band director, allowing the drum major(s) to play a more important role in the performance by marching with the rest of the band.\n\nThe process of appointing high school drum majors varies based on the school, though it is recognizably up to the director's discretion as to whom to select, which is done typically through an audition process where potential drum major candidates must display their conducting skills, their ability to successfully call and execute commands, and to answer questions that demonstrate what type of leader they are and what they can bring to the band. The director may, in such cases, ask one of the previous marching season's drum majors to join him or her for the auditions to help make a decision as to whom to pick (though such an opportunity is usually brought upon the lead drum major). In addition, the opportunity to be a drum major may not be open to everyone in a band, as a potential candidate may be required to first serve as a section leader, captain, or officer. Alternatively, the opportunity may only be available to band members who are juniors or seniors.\n\nA drum major may be trained in a number of different ways depending on the resources of his or her home program and the drum major's own experience. In many schools, the band director actually refuses to personally teach the drum major conducting and leadership (because it is supposed to be the drum major's job to make that band director's job easier). Most drum majors attend drum major camps to learn to conduct and teach their band. Drum majoring is usually thought of as a leadership responsibility that cannot be taught, and the person selected for the position is ready (or the closest to ready) to take the responsibility. To be a good drum major can never be taught or fully trained to one person.\n\nThe George N. Parks Drum Major Academy (DMA) is a nationwide summer camp for high school drum majors. It was founded in 1978 by George N. Parks. The Drum Major Academy is held at various locations around the United States, by 2010 the academy drew up to 3,000 students each year. DMA provides students with marching, conducting, and leadership training in preparation for their upcoming seasons. Parks, considered a national authority on drum majoring, personally led many of these camps until his death in September 2010.\n\nSmith Walbridge Clinics (SWC) has offered a Drum Major Clinic since 1952 and claim to be the nation's first drum major camp. The clinic teaches three styles of drum majoring including traditional, corps, and mace. Other training methods include three levels of conducting, three levels of showmanship, fundamentals of drill design, verbal commands, daily individual evaluations using video tapes, leadership training, score study, teaching and cleaning drill, multi-drum major help, salutes, and mace. The clinic is hosted yearly on the campus of Eastern Illinois University in Charleston, Illinois.\n\nDuring a field show the drum major is usually evaluated by a different judge than the rest of the band. How the drum major is judged depends on the region and style of the band and personal opinions of the judge themselves. Typical captions for judging a drum major include conducting, communication between drum majors, marching, style, showmanship, and leadership. Judge's comments will often be recorded by a hand held tape recorder and supplied to the drum majors along with the rest of the band's scores and feedback from the competition.\n\nExamples of judge's evaluation sheets:\n\nIf there is an awards ceremony at a marching competition, the drum major(s) usually represent their band and accept any awards. The drum major(s) will usually prepare a separate, shorter salute in order to respectfully accept awards that their band has earned.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843820", "title": "Tropical Storm Fay", "text": "Tropical Storm Fay\n\nThe name Fay has been used for three tropical cyclones in the Atlantic Ocean since Fran was retired in the spring of 1997. Of them, only one has reached hurricane strength. Another storm Faye, was active in 1975.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843832", "title": "Tin box", "text": "Tin box\n\nA tin box is a tinplate container. Tinplate metal is primarily steel with a very thin tin coating. Tin-free steel is also used. In some cultures, these boxes or cans are referred to as \"tin boxes\" or sometimes even \"tins\". Many “tin boxes” have hinged or removable lids or covers. Some people collect tin boxes as a hobby. \n\nThese tinplate cans are often used to package breath mints, throat lozenges, instant coffee, biscuits and holiday treats. Highly decorated \"holiday tins\" are sold during the holiday season and are popular gifts, and often contain cookies, candy, or popcorn. Similar festive containers are used in Europe for sweets, biscuits, cakes and chocolates, mainly during Christmas, rather than in the summer holidays and in countries with British associations, they are usually called \"biscuit tins\". In Denmark, butter cookies in tins are produced and sold there, and are also exported to other countries. These types of smaller tin boxes are sometimes reused to store items, or to create kits, such as a survival kit. A hobby involves modifying tin boxes with decorations and embellishments.\n\nSome types of metal tins or cans have hinged covers; Others cans have removable interference fit covers or lids.\nThe lid, which sometimes is hinged to the body of the container, is often held in place when closed by friction. In other cases, two protruding lugs can pass each other only when the lid and the rest of the box are deformed slightly: pressure from the user's hands is sufficient to produce this deformation, while the parts resist this somewhat, and are flexible enough to recover their normal shape when released.\n\nSome people collect these types of tin boxes. For example, Yvette Dardenne in Belgium has amassed a collection of approximately 56,800 tin boxes over two decades.\n\nSeveral types of tinplate metal boxes are produced.\n\nSome companies also use tinplate to make gift cans and boxes, like Candle tin, Coin bank, Christmas tin box, Easter egg tin etc.\nTrunks and chests are sometimes constructed of tinplate. These large boxes often have a hinged top cover and are sometimes highly decorated.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843833", "title": "Hurricane Gustav (disambiguation)", "text": "Hurricane Gustav (disambiguation)\n\nThe name Gustav was used for five tropical cyclones in the Atlantic Ocean:\nThe name Gustav was retired in the spring of 2009 and was replaced by Gonzalo for the 2014 Atlantic hurricane season.\n"}
{"id": "1843836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843836", "title": "Tropical Storm Hanna", "text": "Tropical Storm Hanna\n\nThe names Hanna or Hannah have been used to name multiple tropical storms.\n\n\nThe name was also used for six tropical cyclones in the Pacific Ocean, and after the 1999 season, Hanna was added to PAGASA's naming list after Typhoon Imbudo or Harurot was retired.:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843839", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843839", "title": "Ferrohortonolite", "text": "Ferrohortonolite\n\nFerrohortonolite is a mineral variety in the olivine series composed of 70% to 90% fayalite and 30% to 10% forsterite or Fe/(Fe+Mg) ratio of 0.7 to 0.9. It is from the obsolete \"hortonolite\" terminology for the olivine series.\n\nIt has been reported from Mount Gillies, Queensland, Australia; the Ilimaussaq complex of west Greenland; Pantelleria Island, Sicily; and from Choc village on Saint Lucia.\n"}
{"id": "1843844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843844", "title": "Meinhardt Raabe", "text": "Meinhardt Raabe\n\nMeinhardt Frank Raabe (September 2, 1915 – April 9, 2010) was an American actor. He was one of the last surviving Munchkin-actors in \"The Wizard of Oz\", and was also the last surviving cast member with any dialogue in the film. He portrayed the coroner who certified the death of the Wicked Witch of the East.\n\nRaabe was born in Watertown, Wisconsin as a son of Heinrich Herman Raabe (1894-1979) and Ruth [Blackburn] Raabe (1906-1966). He graduated from the University of Wisconsin–Madison in 1937, with a bachelor's degree in accounting. He later went on to get his MBA at Drexel University.\n\nRaabe did not hear the words \"midget\" or \"dwarf\" until young adulthood, and for a long time believed no one else might also be like him. After visiting the Midget Village at Chicago's Century of Progress in 1933, he realized he was not alone and took a summer job with the fair the next year. After graduating from the University of Wisconsin, he was turned down for employment by one company after another until Oscar Mayer hired him as a salesman. Raabe took a leave of absence from his sales job to audition for a \"Wizard of Oz\" role.\n\nAt about , or three feet, six inches, tall, he played the role of the coroner in \"The Wizard of Oz\" in 1939. Raabe, however, was uncredited in the role, which lasted only 13 seconds. In the film, the coroner confirms the death of the Wicked Witch of the East, with Raabe's lines being:\n\nThese lines, like most of those delivered by the Munchkins, were dubbed over with the speeded-up voices of other performers. In addition to his role in the film, Raabe worked for many decades as a spokesman for Oscar Mayer, where he was known as \"Little Oscar, World's Smallest Chef\". He traveled in the first Wienermobile, which was the idea of the company founder's nephew, Carl Mayer, in 1936. Because the vehicle had little space for any passengers, Mayer realized the spokesman would have to be small, and Raabe got the job.\n\nRaabe continued to work for Oscar Mayer, and claimed to have come up with the idea to sell canned sausages. As the idea was being commercialized, the Army realized that this product would aid in feeding American soldiers in the field, and production was diverted to military consumption, as World War II was beginning for the US. Raabe joined the Civil Air Patrol during World War II. During this time, he served as a pilot, flying fire and lake patrol missions as well as serving as a ground instructor. In 1970, he earned a master's degree in business administration from Drexel University. He married a cigarette girl who was his height, Margaret Marie Raabe (1915–1997). They were married for 50 years until her death in a car accident in 1997, in which he was also injured.\n\nRaabe published an autobiography, \"Memories of a Munchkin: An Illustrated Walk Down the Yellow Brick Road\". (). As of 2007, he lived alone at the Penney Retirement Community in Penney Farms, Florida.\n\nRaabe appeared in an October 2005 episode of \"Entertainment Tonight\" with eight other surviving Munchkins, and he made a guest appearance on \"Jimmy Kimmel Live!\" on April 11, 2005. On November 21, 2007, he appeared with six other surviving Munchkin actors, including Jerry Maren, at the unveiling of a Hollywood Star for the \"Wizard of Oz\" Munchkins on the Hollywood Walk of Fame. On September 19, 2009, he appeared on National Public Radio program Weekend Edition Saturday.\n\nRaabe still made occasional appearances at \"Wizard of Oz\" conventions and celebrations across the country. In 2008 he was honored by the International Wizard of Oz Club with the organization's L. Frank Baum Memorial Award.\n\nIn later life, Raabe resided at Penney Retirement Community in Penney Farms, Florida. He died at a medical center in nearby Orange Park, Florida, on April 9, 2010, at the age of 94 after going into cardiac arrest, as verified by the local coroner. He is buried in Farmington, Wisconsin's Immanuel Evangelical Lutheran Church Cemetery.\n\nOn May 2, 2011, John Darkow, an editorial cartoonist at the Columbia Daily Tribune in Columbia, Missouri, created a cartoon using a nearly-verbatim version of the lines spoken by Raabe's coroner character to announce the death of Osama bin Laden the previous day.\n\n"}
{"id": "1843863", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843863", "title": "Hurricane Josephine", "text": "Hurricane Josephine\n\nThe name Josephine has been used for five tropical cyclones in the Atlantic Ocean.\n"}
{"id": "1843865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843865", "title": "SIMCOS", "text": "SIMCOS\n\nSIMCOS (an acronym standing for \"SIMulation of COntinuous Systems\") is a computer language and a development environment for computer simulation. In 1989 it was developed by Slovenian experts led by Borut Zupančič.\n\nThe purpose of the language is simulation of dynamic mathematical models of systems, given as set of ordinary differential equations. It is an equation oriented and compiler type of language. Despite its name it can be used for discrete simulation as well. The language suits well to the CSSL'67 standard of simulation languages so portability among other languages conforming to the same standard (e.g. Tutsim, ACSL etc.) is quite simple. It is a DOS based software occasionally it is slightly modified so it can be run under actual versions of Microsoft Windows. Apart from the simulation itself it can also perform parametrisation (a series of simulations with different values of parameters), linearisation of models and optimisation (finding such values of parameters that a criterion function is minimised).\n\nWhen a simulation scheme must be prepared it must be described in the SIMCOS language. It can be \"drawn\" (similarly as with an analogue computer) using an enclosed block library graphics tool (it contains basic elements such as integrators, amplifiers, summators, some basic input signals etc.) but more often it is entered as a program using one of text editors, e.g. Edit enclosed with DOS. Whichever form of entry of the model is used, the first phase of simulation reprocesses it into space of states form and rewrites the program into Fortran and prepares files with input parameters. This Fortran program is compiled into an executable file (.EXE) and executed. The executable program reads parameter values from input files, performs the simulation and writes requested calculated values into another file. When it terminates, SIMCOS takes control again and can display results as a graphic plot.\n\nThe \"heart\" of the executable is function INTEG which can solve differential equations using one of several numerical methods. First it reads necessary values (e.g. values of parameters, initial conditions) from files then it calls the function DERIV where the model is actually described as series of functions of its derivatives. The returned values are used at the selected numerical method. Requested calculated results are written into the file and the whole procedure is repeated until the termination condition is satisfied.\n\nContinuous simulation of dead time (its Laplace transform is formula_1) is not a trivial task and usually we use one of Padé approximations. We will simulate Padé approximation of 2nd order\nand 4th order:\nInput signal is a unit step, communication interval equals 0.01s, length simulation run is 5s, results will be compared with output of built-in discrete function \"delay\" (it requires additional array (\"del\" in our case) of appropriate size).\n\n\"y1\" is a result of simulation of Padé approximation of 2nd order, \"y2\" is a result of simulation of Padé approximation of 4th order and \"y3\" is result of the discrete function \"delay\".\n\nWhen transfer functions of both Padé approximation are developed using one of simulation schemes, the model can be described with the following program:\n\nAfter the simulation run is finished the results can be displayed as plots. It is possible to trace values of plots, select which plots to display, turning on a grid, zoom etc. \n\nIn Slovenian language:\n"}
{"id": "1843870", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843870", "title": "It Must Have Been Something I Said!", "text": "It Must Have Been Something I Said!\n\n\"It Must Have Been Something I Said!\" is the fifth comedy album from the Smothers Brothers (released April 15, 1964 on Mercury Records). It reached number 23 on the \"Billboard\" Pop Albums chart. The single \"Jenny Brown\" had peaked at #84 on the 1963 Pop Singles chart, however the recording here is a different, \"live\" version. The album was recorded at The Ice House in Pasadena, California. The cover photograph showed Dick having just smashed a guitar over Tom's head, thereby justifying the album title as a word balloon.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843877", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843877", "title": "Tropical Storm Kyle", "text": "Tropical Storm Kyle\n\nThe name Kyle has been used for three tropical cyclones in the Atlantic Ocean since 1996, the year in which Kyle replaced Klaus on the rotating six-year cycle of names used in the North Atlantic basin.\n\n\nThe name Kyle has also been used for two tropical cyclones in the Western Pacific Ocean.\n\n"}
{"id": "1843883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843883", "title": "Collins &amp; Harlan", "text": "Collins &amp; Harlan\n\nCollins & Harlan, the team of American singers Arthur Collins and Byron G. Harlan formed a popular comic duo between 1903 and 1926. They sang ragtime standards as well as what were known as \"coon songs\" – music sung by white performers in a black dialect. Their material also employed many other stereotypes of the time including Irishmen and farmers. Rival recording artist Billy Murray nicknamed them \"The Half-Ton Duo\" as both men were rather overweight. Collins and Harlan produced many number one hits with recordings of minstrel songs such as \"My Gal Irene\", \"I Know Dat I'll be Happy Til I Die\", \"Who Do You Love?\" and \"Down Among the Sugarcane\". Their song \"That Funny Jas Band from Dixieland\", recorded November 8, 1916, is among the first recorded uses of the word \"jas\" which eventually evolved to \"jass\", and to the current spelling \"jazz\".\n\n\"First Rehearsal for the Husking Bee\", \"Jerry Murphy is a Friend of Mine\", \"Two Rubes in a Tavern\",\n\"The Troubles of the Reuben and the Maid\", \"Under the Bamboo Tree\", \"Down Where the Wurtzburger Flows\"\n\n\"It Was The Dutch\", \"Parody on Hiawatha\", \"Moriarity\", \"Hurrah For Baffin's Bay\", \"They Were All Doing the Same\", \"Oh, Didn't He Ramble?\", \"He was a Sailor\", \"Strike Out McCracken\", \"Closing Time at the Country Grocery\", \"Trouble\"\n\n\"What Would the Neighbors Say?\", \"Barney\", \"Under the Anheuser Bush\", \"Goodbye, Fedora\", \"Possum Pie\", \"Down on the Brandywine\", \"Gone, Gone, Gone\", \"Village Maid\", \"Heinie\"\n\n\"Tammany\", \"Leader of the German Band\", \"Mule Song\", \"Down Where the Sweet Potatoes Grow\", \"Coax Me\", \"Oh, Oh, Sallie\", \"Jaspar, Don't You Hear Me Calling You?\", \"Murphy\", \"Farewell Mister Abner Hemingway\", \"Peter Piper\", \"Take a Car\", \"Come on, Little Girl, Come Along\", \"Hey! Mister Joshua\"\n\n\"Camp Meeting Time\", \"Nigger Loves His Possum\", \"I'm A-Dreaming of You\", \"Out in an Automobile\", \"My Lovin' Henry\", \"Central, Give Me Back My Dime\", \"Gretchen\", \"Traveling\", \"When Mose With His Nose Leads the Band\", \"It's Up to You to Move\", \"Honey, Won't You Love Me Like You Used to?\", \"Come Take a Skate With Me\", \"Susan, Kiss Me Good and Hard\", \"Won't You Leave Your Happy Home For Me?\", \"Afloat On a Five Dollar Note\", \"Anxious\"\n\n\"Arrah Wanna\", \"Good-a-Bye John\", \"I'm Thinkin' Bout You Honey All the Time\", \"Won't You Throw a Kiss To Me\", \"I'm Keeping My Love-Lamp Burning For You\", \"Lovin' Time\", \"And a Little Bit More\", \"Every Little Bit, Added to What You've Got\", \"Just Help Yourself\", \"I'm Runnin' After Nancy\", \"Who Do You Love?\", \"Bake Dat Chicken Pie\", \"I Know Dat I'll be Happy Til I Die\"\n\n\"Down in Jungle Town\", \"My Gal Irene\", \"Come on and Kiss Your Baby\", \"Nothing Hardly Ever Troubles Me\", \"Cohan's Rage Babe\", \"A High Old Time In Dixie\", \"Alexander And His Clarinet\"\n\n\"Down Among The Sugar Cane\", \"My Wife's Gone To The Country\", \"The Right Church, But the Wrong Pew\", \"Alabam\n\n\"Ain't You Coming Out Tonight?\", \"Swingin in De Sky\"\n\n\"I'm Going Back To Dixie\", \"Under the Yum Yum Tree\", \"Put Your Arms Around Me, Honey\", \"Alexander's Ragtime Band\", \"Baby Rose\", \"On Mobile Bay\"\n\n\"Hitchy-Koo\"\n\n\"When the Midnight Choo-Choo Leaves for Alabam, \"The International Rag\", \"Melinda's Wedding Day\", \"At the Levee on Revival Day\"\n\n\"Aba Daba Honeymoon\", \"I Love the Ladies\", \"It's a Very Easy Thing to Put a Ring Upon a Finger, But Try to Take it Off\"\n\n\"Alabama Jubilee\", \"Auntie Skinner's Chicken Dinner\", \"Those Charlie Chaplin Feet\"\n\n\"That Funny Jas Band From Dixieland\", \"Oh, How She Could Yacki Hacki Wicki Wachi Woo (That's Love in Honolulu)\", \"All Aboard For Chinatown\", \"At the Old Plantation Ball\", \"Come Along to Caroline\"\n\n\"Three Pickaninnies\", \"The Old Grey Mare\"\n\n\"Darktown Strutters' Ball\"\n\n\"Sipping Cider Through a Straw\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843887", "title": "Francis Barlow (artist)", "text": "Francis Barlow (artist)\n\nFrancis Barlow (c. 1626 – 1704) was an English painter, etcher, and illustrator.\n\nHe ranks among the most prolific book-illustrators and printmakers of the 17th century, working across several genres: natural history, hunting and recreation, politics, and decoration and design.\n\nBarlow is known as \"the father of British sporting painting\"; he was Britain's first wildlife painter, beginning a tradition that reached a high-point a century later, in the work of George Stubbs. He was furthermore a pioneer in the history of comics by creating \"The Horrid Hellish Popish Plot\" (1682), a picture story about the life of Titus Oates and the Popish Plot, which is told in a series of illustrated sequences where the story is written underneath them and the characters depicted on those images use speech balloons to talk. While it is not the first example of its kind in history, it is one of the oldest which is signed.\n\nBarlow was born c. 1626 in Lincolnshire.\n\nThe exact day of Barlow's death is unknown but he was buried on 11 August 1704. Joseph Strutt records that Barlow died in poverty: \"not withstanding all his excellency in design, the multitude of pictures and drawings he appears to have made, and the assistance also of a considerable sum of money, said to have been left to him by a friend, he died in indigent circumstances.\"\n\nBarlow's first major work was the illustration (via twelve plates) of poet Edward Benlowe's \"Theophila\" (1652). In Barlow's favour, Bullen said in 1885 that \"the volume [was] valued rather for the engravings than for the text.\" According to Manchester's Chetham's Library, no two copies of Benlowe's \"Theophila\" are the same, and no copy survives in good condition. The Victoria and Albert Museum holds two different copies, one of which includes an original drawing by Barlow.\n\nBarlow designed the one hundred and ten woodcuts for John Ogilby's translation of \"Aesop's Fables\", published in 1665, several of the plates of which Barlow etched himself.\n\nHugh James Rose observed in the early 19th century that Barlow's \"chief merit [. . .] as a designer, lay in his exactness in the portrayal of birds, fishes, and animals of all kinds, which are executed in a spirited, and in many instances a masterly manner.\" One example of this gift is in a set of twelve prints by Wenceslaus Hollar of engravings after drawings by Barlow, entitled \"Several Ways of Hunting, Hawking, and Fishing, invented by Francis Barlow, engraved by W. Hollar, 1671\", published by John Overton.\n\nA 2011 article in \"History Today\" explored the subtext in examples of Barlow's work: though his wildlife paintings are superb works of art in themselves, they are, at the same time, \"full of rich metaphors that shed light on the anxieties and concerns of a Britain emerging from the horrors of civil war\". A case in point is \"A Decoy\", Barlow's allegory on the threat posed to England by Roman Catholicism.\n\nIn the years leading up to the Glorious Revolution, Barlow became the prime designer of political satire in support of the Whigs; Whig MP Denzil Onslow (1642-1721) acquired or commissioned a number of paintings by Barlow, to decorate his manor house, Pyrford Court. These were more recently housed at Clandon Park, an 18th-century mansion near Guildford, Surrey, becoming one of the largest collections of Barlow's surviving work. Barlow's (and others') work \"miraculously\" survived a devastating fire at Clandon Park on 29 April 2015.\n\nExamples of Barlow's work can be seen at Ham House (in Ham, south of Richmond in London); examples are held, too, by: Tate Britain, the National Portrait Gallery, the British Museum, and the Victoria and Albert Museum.\n\nBarlow frequently signed the initials of his name, \"F.B.\", instead of inserting it at full length, sometimes enclosing the initials in a small circle.\n\nBarlow has come to be regarded as a \"surprisingly neglected artist\". Art historian Mark Hallett accounts for this by noting that Barlow's time is British art's \"forgotten era\" - one that \"has tended to be overshadowed by the achievements of earlier artists, such as Van Dyck, or those that came later, such as Hogarth\"; Hallett finds this unjust: Barlow made a significant contribution to what \"in reality [. . .] was a remarkably rich, vibrant and cosmopolitan period for the visual arts in Britain.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843893", "title": "The Ice House (comedy club)", "text": "The Ice House (comedy club)\n\nThe Ice House Comedy Club is a comedy club located at 24 Mentor Avenue in Pasadena, California.\n\nThe Ice House continues to thrive and during its many decades of operation has entertained over four million people.\n\nIt was opened in 1960 by Willard Chilcott who, soon after, took on folk music icon Bob Stane as his partner.\n\nFrom 1960 to 1978, The Ice House was a folk music club with acts coming from around the country to perform. During that same time, many comedians also appeared at the club. In 1978, the original owners were bought out by a trio of investors led by Bob Fisher who changed the format of the club to stand-up comedy.\n\nAmong performers who have recorded some of the more than 75 live albums at the club are the Smothers Brothers, Gallagher, Lily Tomlin, Pat Paulsen, Richard Jeni and George Lopez. \n\nOther comedians who have performed at the club include: Bob Newhart, George Carlin, Robin Williams, David Letterman, Jim Carrey, Jay Leno, Dennis Miller, Howie Mandel, Jerry Seinfeld, Billy Crystal, Steve Martin, Ellen DeGeneres, Garry Shandling, Sinbad, Bill Maher, Brendan Schaub, Gabe Kaplan, Paula Poundstone, Rosie O'Donnell, Cheech & Chong, Tim Allen, Paul Rodriguez, Dana Carvey, Joey Diaz, Arsenio Hall, Joe Rogan, Bill Burr, Chris D’Elia, Bert Kreischer and Ken Jeong.\n"}
{"id": "1843894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843894", "title": "Francis Barlow", "text": "Francis Barlow\n\nFrancis Barlow may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843897", "title": "Divided government in the United States", "text": "Divided government in the United States\n\nIn the United States, divided government describes a situation in which one party controls the executive branch while another party controls one or both houses of the legislative branch.\n\nDivided government is seen by different groups as a benefit or as an undesirable product of the model of governance used in the U.S. political system. Under said model, known as the separation of powers, the state is divided into different branches. Each branch has separate and independent powers and areas of responsibility so that the powers of one branch are not in conflict with the powers associated with the others. However, the degree to which the president of the United States has control of Congress often determines his political strength - such as the ability to pass sponsored legislation, ratify treaties, and have Cabinet members and judges approved.\n\nThe model can be contrasted with the fusion of powers in a parliamentary system where the executive and legislature (and sometimes parts of the judiciary) are unified. Those in favor of divided government believe that such separations encourage more policing of those in power by the opposition, as well as limiting spending and the expansion of undesirable laws. Opponents, however, argue that divided governments become lethargic, leading to many gridlocks. In the late 1980s, Terry M. Moe, a professor of political science at Stanford University, examined the issue. He concluded that divided governments lead to compromise which can be seen as beneficial, but he also noticed that divided governments subvert performance and politicize the decisions of executive agencies.\n\nEarly in the 20th century, divided government was rare, but since the 1970s it has become increasingly common.\n\nD denotes the Democratic Party and R denotes the Republican Party\n\nMany presidents' elections produced what is known as a coattail effect, in which the success of a presidential candidate also leads to electoral success for other members of his or her party. In fact, all newly elected presidents except Zachary Taylor, Richard Nixon, and George H. W. Bush were accompanied by control of at least one house of Congress.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843900", "title": "One Fine Spring Day", "text": "One Fine Spring Day\n\nOne Fine Spring Day is a South Korean feature film released by Sidus and Applause Films in 2001. Directed by Hur Jin-ho (of \"Christmas in August\"), the film is a portrait of a love affair - from its blossoming in spring, to its decline as the years pass.\n\nSound engineer Sang-woo meets local DJ Eun-soo on a recording trip in the quest for nature's voice. They succeed in capturing various sensual sounds as well as each other's tenderness. Their love flourishes as spring comes along, but Sang-woo's ever intensifying passion often reminds Eun-soo of her tragic past. She knows only too well how passion can vanish like a sound, and how love always surrenders to its end.\n\nThe character Eun-soo, portrayed by Lee Young-ae was the first to say the phrase \"Do you want to eat ramyeon?\", which later grew to exemplify a pick-up line meaning, \"Do you want to sleep with me?\". It was followed by a scene with broken hearted Sang-woo (Yoo Ji-tae), being offered soju with his ramyeon by his father.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843908", "title": "Hurricane Lili (disambiguation)", "text": "Hurricane Lili (disambiguation)\n\nThe name Lili was used for four tropical cyclones in the Atlantic Ocean, one tropical cyclone in the Australian region, and one tropical cyclone in the South Pacific Ocean. Lili is not to be confused with Lily, which was used in the Eastern Pacific Ocean.\n\nNorth Atlantic:\n\nThe name Lili was retired after the 2002 season, and was replaced by Laura in the 2008 season.\n\nAustralian region:\n\nSouth Pacific:\n"}
{"id": "1843909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843909", "title": "Arthur Collins (singer)", "text": "Arthur Collins (singer)\n\nArthur Francis Collins (February 7, 1864 – August 2, 1933) was an American baritone who was one of the most prolific and beloved of pioneer recording artists, regarded in his day as \"King of the Ragtime Singers\".\n\nHe was born in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania and moved with his family to Barnegat, New Jersey around 1879 and as a teenager worked as a volunteer lifesaver on the Jersey shore, beginning an enthusiasm for sailing that became a lifelong pursuit. However, his fine baritone voice – heard in church and in local concert appearances – convinced Collins' family to send him back to Philadelphia for formal training. After concluding his studies, Collins spent some 15 years touring with various stock companies and appearing in summer opera in St. Louis. None of these ventures turned out any long term prospects for Collins, and when he married actress and singer Anna Leah Connelly in 1895 Collins swore off show business and decided to study for a career in bookkeeping. Taking occasional roles for extra money, Collins appeared in a production given by the DeWolf Hopper Opera Company in 1898, and talent scouts for Edison Records requested Collins audition which, according to his wife, took place on May 16, 1898.\n\nWithin a few years, Collins proved one of the most productive and successful singers in the record business, and in his long career between 1898 and 1926 he worked for every record company active in the United States. He specialized in what were then called coon songs, popular African-American dialect numbers associated with vaudeville and minstrel shows. Collins also utilized an array of vocal effects and caricature voices which gave the impression that there were multiple persons at the horn on his recordings, though it was just Collins. Towards making that end of it more effective, Collins began to work in a duo format with tenor Joe Natus in 1901 and both sang in an Edison group called the Big Four Quartet. It is assumed that Collins first came into contact with tenor Byron G. Harlan within the context of the Big Four Quartet, and from then until the end of Collins' career in the early 1920s, Harlan was Collins's duet partner. Collins & Harlan were probably the most famous and popular male duo on early records.\n\nIn 1909, Collins joined John H. Meyer, Henry Burr, and Albert Campbell in the Peerless Quartet, a successful barbershop music group which toured as the Record Makers, and later as the Eight Popular Victor Artists. However, by 1917 bass Frank Croxton began to replace Collins on some records, a situation that became permanent by mid-1919 as Collins did not get along with Burr, who also served as the group's manager.\n\nDuring a personal appearance at the Princess Theater in Medina, Ohio on October 20, 1921, Collins was badly injured when he fell through an open trap door. While he recovered well enough to resume his singing and recording career, his health began to decline afterward and in 1926, Collins retired, relocating to Florida with his wife. He died at the age of 69 in Tice, Florida on August 3, 1933.\n\nArthur Collins recorded hundreds of songs, and in many cases he recorded the same song multiple times for various recording outfits. His signature song was \"The Preacher and the Bear\", which he first recorded in 1905. His rendition, widely dispersed among a variety of releases, constitutes the most popular non-operatic record made during the first decade of the twentieth century. Collins was still recording the number in 1922, and a 1908 remake of the piece for Victor remained in their catalog until 1941; at his personal appearances \"The Preacher and the Bear\" was invariably requested. His recording sold over one million copies, and was awarded a gold disc, only the second one ever presented. \n\nCollins lived up to his reputation as the \"King of Ragtime Singers\" and recorded more ragtime songs than any other singer during the era when ragtime was at its peak of popularity. Collins recorded some of Bert Williams's songs before Williams did, and even recorded some numbers associated with Williams that the latter never waxed. Collins and Harlan also made best-selling records of tunes old and new that remain well cherished and iconic even in the twenty-first century, such as \"Waiting for the Robert E. Lee\", \"Alexander's Ragtime Band\", \"Lily of the Valley\", and \"The Old Grey Mare\". Collins survived into the early years of the Jazz Age, and he and Harlan recorded the earliest record known to mention jazz, \"That Funny Jas Band from Dixieland\" (Victor 18235, recorded January 12, 1917).\n\nCollins' solo recordings as well as Collins and Harlan recordings are viewed as desirable by collectors, particularly the very early ones, and such enthusiasm about their output dates back to at least the 1940s. Given the age of these recordings and their highly specialized frame of interest, few of them were reissued in the LP era; Collins has fared better in the digital age, but still lacks a single disc anthology of his characteristic recorded work.\n\n1898\n\n1899\n\n1900\n\n1901\n\n1902\n\n1903\n\n1904\n\n1905\n\n1906\n\n1907\n\n1908\n\n1909\n\n1910\n\n1911\n\n1912\n\n1916\n\n1918\n\n1919\n\n1920\n\n† Indicates a recording that reached number one on sales charts.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843910", "title": "Byron G. Harlan", "text": "Byron G. Harlan\n\nByron George Harlan (August 29, 1861 – September 11, 1936) was an American singer from Kansas, a comic minstrel singer and balladeer who often recorded with Arthur Collins. The two together were often billed as \"Collins & Harlan\".\n\n1899 \n\n1901\n\n1903\n1904\n\n1905\n\n1906\n\n1907\n\n1908\n\n1912\n\n1917\n\n1919\n\n1921\n\n1902\n\n1903\nMeet Me Down At Luna Lena - Zon-O-Phone 194\n\n1904\n\n1905\n\n1906\n\n1907\n\n1908\n\n1909\n\n1911\n\n1912\n\n1914\n\n1915\n\n1916\n\n1918\n\n\n1919\n\n\n1922\n\n1913\n\n1909\n\n1902\n\n1904\n\n1904\n\n1905\n\n1903\n\n1904\n\n1905\n\n1913\n\n"}
{"id": "1843913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843913", "title": "Desert ecology", "text": "Desert ecology\n\nDesert ecology is the study of interactions between both biotic and abiotic components of desert environments. A desert ecosystem is defined by interactions between organism, the climate in which they live, and any other non-living influences on the habitat. Deserts are arid regions which are generally associated with warm temperatures, however cold deserts also exist. Deserts can be found in every continent, with the largest deserts located in Antarctica, the Arctic, Northern Africa, and the Middle East.\n\nDeserts experience a wide range of temperatures and weather conditions, and can be classified into four types: hot, semiarid, coastal, and cold. Hot deserts experience warm temperatures year round, and low annual precipitation. Low levels of humidity in hot deserts contribute to high daytime temperatures, and extensive nighttime heat loss. The average annual temperature in hot deserts is approximately 20 to 25 °C, however, extreme weather conditions can lead to temperatures ranging from -18 to 49 °C. \n\nRainfall generally occurs, followed by long periods of dryness. Semiarid deserts experience similar conditions to hot deserts, however, the maximum and minimum temperatures tend to be less extreme, and generally range from 10 to 38 °C. Coastal deserts are cooler than hot and semiarid deserts, with average summer temperatures ranging between 13 and 24 °C. They also feature higher total rainfall values. Cold deserts are similar in temperature to coastal deserts, however, they receive more annual precipitation in the form of snowfall. Deserts are most notable for their dry climates; usually a result from their surrounding geography. For example, rain-blocking mountain ranges, and distance from oceans are two geographic features that contribute to desert aridity. Rain-blocking mountain ranges create Rain Shadows. As air rises and cools, its relative humidity increases and some or most moisture rains out, leaving little to no water vapor to form precipitation on the other side of the mountain range.\n\nDeserts occupy one-fifth of the Earth's land surface and occur in two belts: between 15° and 35° latitude in both the southern and northern hemispheres. These bands are associated with the high solar intensities that all areas in the tropics receive, and with the dry air brought down by the descending arms of both the Hadley and Ferell atmospheric circulation cells. Dry winds hold little moisture for these areas, and also tend to evaporate any water present.\n\nMany desert ecosystems are limited by available water levels, rather than rates of radiation or temperature. Water flow in these ecosystems can be thought of as similar to energy flow; in fact, it is often useful to look at water and energy flow together when studying desert ecosystems and ecology.\n\nWater availability in deserts may also be hindered by loose sediments. Dust clouds commonly form in windy, arid climates. Scientists have previously theorised that desert dust clouds would enhance rainfall, however, some more recent studies have shown that precipitation is actually inhibited by this phenomenon by absorbing moisture from the atmosphere. This absorption of atmospheric moisture can result in a positive feedback loop, which leads to further desertification.\n\nDesert landscapes can contain a wide variety of geological features, such as oases, rock outcrops, dunes, and mountains. Dunes are structures formed by wind moving sediments into mounds. Desert dunes are generally classified based on their orientation relative to wind directly. Possibly the most recognizable dune type are transverse dunes, characterized by crests transverse to the wind direction. Many dunes are considered to be \"active\", meaning that they can travel and change over time due to the influence of the wind. However, some dunes can be anchored in place by vegetation or topography, preventing their movement. Some dunes may also be referred to as \"sticky.\" These types of dunes occur when individual grains of sand become cemented together. Sticky dunes tend to be more stable, and resistant to wind reworking than loose dunes. Barchan, and Seif dunes are among the most common of desert dunes. Barchan dunes are formed as winds continuously blow in the same direction, and are characterized by a crescent-shape atop the dune. Seif dunes are long and narrow, featuring a sharp crest, and are more common in the Sahara Desert.\n\nAnalysis of geological features in desert environments can reveal a lot about the geologic history of the area. Through observation and identification of rock deposits, geologists are able to interpret the order of events that occurred during desert formation. For example, research conducted on the surface geology of the Namib Desert allowed geologists to interpret ancient movements of the Kuiseb River based on rock ages and features identified in the area.\n\nDeserts support diverse communities of plant and animals that have evolved resistance, and circumventing methods of extreme temperatures and arid conditions. For example, desert grasslands are more humid and slightly cooler than its surrounding ecosystems. Many animals obtain energy by eating the surrounding vegetation, however, desert plants are much more difficult for organisms to consume. To avoid intense temperatures, the majority of small desert mammals are nocturnal, living in burrows to avoid the intense desert sun during the daytime. These burrows prevent overheating and dehydration as they maintain an optimal temperature for the mammal. Desert ecology is characterized by dry, alkaline soils, low net production and opportunistic feeding patterns by herbivores and carnivores. Other organisms' survival tactics are physiologically based. Such tactics include the completion of life cycles ahead of anticipated drought seasons, and storing water with the help of specialized organs.\n\nDesert climates are particularly demanding on endothermic organisms. However, endothermic organisms have adapted mechanisms to aid in water retention in habitats such as desert ecosystems which are commonly affected by drought. In environments where the external temperature is less than their body temperature, most endotherms are able to balance heat production and heat loss to maintain a comfortable temperature. However, in deserts where air and ground temperatures exceed body temperature, endotherms must be able to dissipate the large amounts of heat being absorbed in these environments. In order to cope with extreme conditions, desert endotherms have adapted through the means of avoidance, relaxation of homeostasis, and specializations. Nocturnal desert rodents, like the kangaroo rat, will spend the daytime in cool burrows deep underground, and emerge at night to seek food. Birds are much more mobile than ground-dwelling endotherms, and can therefore avoid heat-induced dehydration by flying between water sources. To prevent overheating, the body temperatures of many desert mammals have adapted to be much higher than non-desert mammals. Camels, for example, can maintain body temperatures that are about equal to typical desert air temperatures. This adaptations allows camels to retain large amounts of water for extended periods of time. Other examples of higher body temperature in desert mammals include the diurnal antelope ground squirrel, and the oryx. Certain desert endotherms have evolved very specific and unique characteristics to combat dehydration. Male sandgrouse have specialized belly feathers that are able to trap and carry water. This allows the sandgrouse to provide a source of hydration for their chicks, who do not yet have the ability to fly to water sources themselves.\n\nAlthough deserts have severe climates, some plants still manage to grow. Plants that can survive in arid deserts are called xerophytes, meaning they are able to survive long dry periods. Such plants may close their stomata during the daytime and open them again at night. During the night, temperatures are much cooler, and plants will experience less water loss, and intake larger amounts of carbon dioxide for photosynthesis.\n\nAdaptations in xerophytes include resistance to heat and water loss, increased water storage capabilities, and reduced surface area of leaves. One of the most common families of desert plants are the cacti, which are covered in sharp spines or bristles for defence against herbivory. The bristles on certain cacti also have the ability to reflect sunlight, such as those of the old man cactus. Certain xerophytes, like oleander, feature stomata that are recessed as a form of protection against hot, dry desert winds, which allows the leaves to retain water more effectively. Another unique adaptation can be found in xerophytes like ocotillo, which are \"leafless during most of the year, thereby avoiding excessive water loss\".\n\nThere are also plants called phreatophytes which have adapted to the harsh desert conditions by developing extremely long root systems, some of which are 80 ft. long; to reach the water table which ensures a water supply to the plant.\nThe harsh climate of most desert regions is a major obstacle in conducting research into these ecosystems. In the environments requiring special adaptations to survive, it is often difficult or even impossible for researchers to spend extended periods of time investigating the ecology of such regions. To overcome the limitations imposed by desert climates, some scientists have used technological advancements in the area of remote sensing and robotics. One such experiment, conducted in 1997, had a specialised robot named Nomad travel through a portion of the Atacama Desert. During this expedition, Nomad travelled over 200 kilometres and provided the researchers with many photographs of sites visited along its path.\n\n"}
{"id": "1843916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843916", "title": "Live at Wembley '86", "text": "Live at Wembley '86\n\nLive at Wembley '86 is a double live album by the British rock band Queen. It was recorded live on Saturday 12 July 1986 during the Magic Tour at Wembley Stadium in London, England. The album was released on 26 May 1992, with a companion DVD released in June 2003.\n\nThe album was remastered and re-released with bonus tracks in August 2003 in the US as Live at Wembley Stadium after the companion DVD. This name has also been used on subsequent releases elsewhere, although they lack the bonus tracks included with the US version.\n\nA remastered special edition DVD was released on 5 September 2011 in the UK (what would have been Freddie Mercury's 65th birthday), and for the first time included the Friday evening concert in addition to the Saturday night show. Snippets of the Friday show were included on earlier DVDs, but the remastered release marked the first time that the concert has been presented in full. A Deluxe Edition also included the Saturday concert in remastered CD form.\n\n\n\n\nThe original Friday concert started at 4.00pm with tickets costing £14.50. Four bands performed in the following order:\n\nAdditional Musicians\n\n"}
{"id": "1843918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843918", "title": "Chinese middle schools riots", "text": "Chinese middle schools riots\n\nThe Chinese middle schools riots were a series of riots that broke out in the Chinese Singaporean community in 1956, resulting in 13 people killed and more than 100 injured.\n\nIn 1956, after Lim Yew Hock replaced David Marshall as Chief Minister of Singapore, he began to take tough measures to suppress communist activities with the support of the British Governor and Commissioner of Police.\n\nIn September, Lim Yew Hock deregistered and banned two pro-communist organizations: the Singapore Women’s Association (SWA) and the Chinese Musical Gong Society. The Singapore Chinese Middle School Students Union (SCMSSU) was also dissolved.\n\nThe riots came about when Lim Yew Hock announced that the Singapore Chinese Middle School Students' Union would be closed due to its communist activities. The government also arrested four student leaders and expelled 142 students\n\nIn protest, students gathered and camped at Chung Cheng High School and The Chinese High School. They sat-in over the next two weeks, organizing meetings and holding demonstrations. On 24 October, the government issued an ultimatum that the schools be vacated. As the deadline approached, riots started at the Chinese High School and spread to other parts of the island.\n\nThe government decided to take action. On 26 October 1956, the police entered the schools and cleared the students using tear gas. Forced out from the schools, the students headed for the city. They overturned cars and damaged traffic lights. They also threw stones and bottles. Over the next five days, 13 people were killed and more than 100 were injured.\n\nSome nine hundred people were arrested, including Lim Chin Siong, Fong Swee Suan and Devan Nair. They were released in 1959 when the People's Action Party, led by Lee Kuan Yew, won the 1959 general election to form the government as Singapore gained self rule.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843922", "title": "Tropical Storm Cesar", "text": "Tropical Storm Cesar\n\nThe name Cesar was used for three tropical cyclones in the Atlantic Ocean.\n\nThe name Cesar was retired after the 1996 season, and was replaced by Cristobal in the 2002 season.\n"}
{"id": "1843926", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843926", "title": "Subsidiary communications authority", "text": "Subsidiary communications authority\n\nSubsidiary Communications Authorization (SCA) in the United States, and Subsidiary Communications Multiplex Operation (SCMO) in Canada, is a subcarrier on a radio station, allowing the station to broadcast additional services as part of its signal.\n\n\"Subsidiary Communications Authorization\" is the United States Federal Communications Commission's official designation for this type of service. SCA was deregulated in 1983; since then, both AM and FM licensed broadcast stations have been allowed to use subcarriers in the United States in general without requiring separate authority; authorization is only required for some uses which are still otherwise regulated, such as common carrier or Land Mobile Radio Service transmissions. The fidelity (bandwidth) of SCA channels on FM is generally quite limited compared to that of the main program material, resulting in audio quality similar to AM radio broadcasting. \n\nThe Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission (CRTC) calls this service \"Subsidiary Communications Multiplex Operation\" (SCMO). SCMO for internal uses by the radio station, such as internal monitoring and cue control, are allowed under the normal broadcasting certificate. Non-broadcasting uses are allowed when the type of use is authorized under other radio and telecommunications acts, and may require a fee.\n\nIn Australia, the service is called \"Ancillary Communications Service\" (ACS) and the Radio Data System is specifically addressed by government guidelines.\n\nSubcarrier channels falling under the description of SCA are usually on FM at 67 kHz and 92 kHz from the main carrier, and 67 kHz is the most common. Major uses of SCA include:\n\nMost programming transmitted by SCA/SCMO is usually pay/subscription-based, making unauthorized reception of such programming illegal, but programming which is not commercial in nature, such as reading services, can be received legally.\n\nCompanies in the past such as Norver, ComPol, Mani National Corporation, McMartin, & Dayton Industrial; and current companies such as Metrosonix make radios and adapters for receiving SCA/SCMO channels. It can be difficult to keep the main channel's FM stereo difference subcarrier from interfering with such SCA decoders, as the stereo signal is a much stronger signal, and distortions due to multipath can also cause problems.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843931", "title": "Luminous efficacy", "text": "Luminous efficacy\n\nLuminous efficacy is a measure of how well a light source produces visible light. It is the ratio of luminous flux to power, measured in lumens per watt in the International System of Units (SI). Depending on context, the power can be either the radiant flux of the source's output, or it can be the total power (electric power, chemical energy, or others) consumed by the source.\nWhich sense of the term is intended must usually be inferred from the context, and is sometimes unclear. The former sense is sometimes called luminous efficacy of radiation, and the latter luminous efficacy of a source or overall luminous efficacy.\n\nNot all wavelengths of light are equally visible, or equally effective at stimulating human vision, due to the spectral sensitivity of the human eye; radiation in the infrared and ultraviolet parts of the spectrum is useless for illumination. The luminous efficacy of a source is the product of how well it converts energy to electromagnetic radiation, and how well the emitted radiation is detected by the human eye.\n\nLuminous efficacy can be normalized by the maximum possible luminous efficacy to a dimensionless quantity called luminous efficiency. The distinction between \"efficacy\" and \"efficiency\" is not always carefully maintained in published sources, so it is not uncommon to see \"efficiencies\" expressed in lumens per watt, or \"efficacies\" expressed as a percentage.\n\nWavelengths of light outside of the visible spectrum are not useful for illumination because they cannot be seen by the human eye. Furthermore, the eye responds more to some wavelengths of light than others, even within the visible spectrum. This response of the eye is represented by the luminosity function. This is a standardized function which represents the response of a \"typical\" eye under bright conditions (photopic vision). One can also define a similar curve for dim conditions (scotopic vision). When neither is specified, photopic conditions are generally assumed.\n\nLuminous efficacy of radiation measures the fraction of electromagnetic power which is useful for lighting. It is obtained by dividing the luminous flux by the radiant flux. Light with wavelengths outside the visible spectrum reduces luminous efficacy, because it contributes to the radiant flux while the luminous flux of such light is zero. Wavelengths near the peak of the eye's response contribute more strongly than those near the edges.\n\nPhotopic luminous efficacy of radiation has a maximum possible value of , for the case of monochromatic light at a wavelength of approximately (green). Scotopic luminous efficacy of radiation reaches a maximum of for monochromatic light at a wavelength of .\n\nLuminous efficacy, denoted \"K\", is defined as\n\nwhere\n\nArtificial light sources are usually evaluated in terms of luminous efficacy of the source, also sometimes called \"wall-plug efficacy\". This is the ratio between the total luminous flux emitted by a device and the total amount of input power (electrical, etc.) it consumes. The luminous efficacy of the source is a measure of the efficiency of the device with the output adjusted to account for the spectral response curve (the luminosity function). When expressed in dimensionless form (for example, as a fraction of the maximum possible luminous efficacy), this value may be called \"luminous efficiency of a source\", \"overall luminous efficiency\" or \"lighting efficiency\".\n\nThe main difference between the luminous efficacy of radiation and the luminous efficacy of a source is that the latter accounts for input energy that is lost as heat or otherwise exits the source as something other than electromagnetic radiation. Luminous efficacy of radiation is a property of the radiation emitted by a source. Luminous efficacy of a source is a property of the source as a whole.\n\nThe following table lists luminous efficacy of a source and efficiency for various light sources. Note that all lamps requiring electrical/electronic ballast are unless noted (see also voltage) listed without losses for that, reducing total efficiency.\n\nSources that depend on thermal emission from a solid filament, such as incandescent light bulbs, tend to have low overall efficacy because, as explained by Donald L. Klipstein, \"An ideal thermal radiator produces visible light most efficiently at temperatures around 6300 °C (6600 K or 11,500 °F). Even at this high temperature, a lot of the radiation is either infrared or ultraviolet, and the theoretical luminous [efficacy] is 95 lumens per watt. No substance is solid and usable as a light bulb filament at temperatures anywhere close to this. The surface of the sun is not quite that hot.\" At temperatures where the tungsten filament of an ordinary light bulb remains solid (below 3683 kelvin), most of its emission is in the infrared.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843936", "title": "Tropical Storm Fran", "text": "Tropical Storm Fran\n\nThe name Fran was used for four tropical cyclones in the Atlantic Ocean.\n\nThe name Fran was retired after the 1996 season, and was replaced by Fay in the 2002 season.\n\nThe name Fran was also used for nine tropical cyclones in the Western Pacific:\n\nThe name Fran was also used for one tropical cyclone in the Southwest Pacific:\n"}
{"id": "1843942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843942", "title": "Commonwealth v. Wasson", "text": "Commonwealth v. Wasson\n\nKentucky v. Wasson, 842 S.W.2d 487 (Ky. 1992), was a 1992 Kentucky Supreme Court decision striking down that state's criminalization of consensual sodomy between same-sex partners, holding that this was a violation of both the equal protection of the laws and the right to privacy. The Kentucky case helped pave the way for many other states and eventually the United States Supreme Court to issue similar rulings.\n\nAt that time, Kentucky law criminalized consensual sexual relations between people of the same sex, even if conducted in private. Specifically, the law criminalized genital-oral (oral sex), genital-anal (anal sex), and anal-oral (rimming) sex -but only between partners of the same sex. Such sexual activities between mixed-sex (male-female) couples were legal. Such conduct was a misdemeanor punishable by up to 12 months in jail and a fine of up to $500. Solicitation of same was also a misdemeanor, punishable by up to 90 days in jail and a fine of up to $250.\n\nHistorically, Kentucky's sodomy statutes had changed over time. The 1860 sodomy statute criminalized anal penetration by a penis and applied to both male-female couples and male-male couples. Because the law focused exclusively on penile-anal penetration, consensual sex between women was technically legal in Kentucky until 1974. In fact, in 1909 the Kentucky Supreme Court issued a ruling in \"Commonwealth v. Poindexter\" involving two African-American men arrested for consensual oral sex. In this decision the court upheld that the then current sodomy law did not criminalize oral sex but only anal sex.\n\nIn 1974 Kentucky revised its statutes as part of a penal code reform advocated by the American Law Institute. While the American Law Institute urged states to decriminalize consensual sodomy and other victimless crimes, the Kentucky legislature chose to decriminalize anal sex involving male-female couples but to broaden the new statute to criminalize anal-genital, oral-genital, and oral-anal sexual contact involving same-sex couples (both male-male and female-female couples). Thus, the 1974 revised statute decriminalized consensual anal sex for mixed-sex couples but expanded criminalization of sexual acts to include both male and female same-sex couples.\n\nJeffrey Wasson, a 23-year-old nursing student, was arrested in 1986 and charged with solicitation of same-sex sodomy as the result of an undercover sting operation conducted by the Lexington police. The police selected an area and conversed with men to see if they would be solicited for sex under the 1974 statute defining fourth degree sodomy as actual or solicitation of consensual sodomy. As Wasson left The Bar Complex, a Lexington gay bar, to walk to his car, an undercover officer engaged Wasson in the parking lot and taped approximately 20 minutes of a conversation with Wasson. Near the end of the conversation Wasson invited the officer to come home with him. When prodded for details, Wasson suggested sexual activities that violated the Kentucky statute prohibiting homosexual activity. Wasson was one of 29 men arrested during this police sting. Rather than paying the fine, he sought legal representation to contest the law. In its recitation of the facts, the Kentucky Supreme Court noted that there \"was no suggestion that sexual activity would occur anyplace other than in the privacy of Wasson's home. The sexual activity was intended to have been between consenting adults. No money was offered or solicited.\"\n\nThe initial trial court, Fayette District Court, dismissed the charges holding that the law was unconstitutional. Upon appeal, the Fayette Circuit Court reached the same conclusion. The Commonwealth appealed that decision. The Kentucky Supreme Court granted a transfer, bypassing the Kentucky Court of Appeals.\n\nOn September 24, 1992, in a 4–3 ruling, the Court struck down anti-sodomy laws in effect since 1860, declaring them unconstitutional under Kentucky law with the declaration that it violated both the right to privacy and the right to equal protection under the law found in the Kentucky Constitution. Justice Charles M. Leibson authored the majority opinion, which noted:\n\nMore significantly, Kentucky has a rich and compelling tradition of recognizing and protecting individual rights from state intrusion in cases similar in nature, found in the Debates of the Kentucky Constitutional Convention of 1890 and cases from the same era when that Constitution was adopted... Kentucky cases recognized a legally protected right of privacy based on our own constitution and common law tradition long before the United States Supreme Court first took notice of whether there were any rights of privacy inherent in the Federal Bill of Rights.\n\nAsserting that \"state constitutional jurisprudence in this area is not limited by the constraints inherent in federal due process analysis\", the majority opinion held that the law as written and enforced \"infringed upon the equal protection guarantees found in the Kentucky Constitution.\"\n\nThe case was styled \"Commonwealth of Kentucky v. Jeffery Wasson\", 842 S.W.2d 487. The decision was handed down on September 24, 1992.\n\nThe case was among the early ones to strike down same-sex sodomy laws on the grounds that such laws violated the Equal Protection doctrine. Four other states preceded Kentucky in striking down same-sex sodomy laws. New York in \"New York v. Onofre\" and Pennsylvania in \"Commonwealth v. Bonadio\" did so on grounds similar to those cited by the Kentucky Supreme Court. A lower appellate court in Texas and the Wayne County Circuit Court in Michigan had also struck down same-sex sodomy laws by that time, though neither state's highest court had yet issued such a holding. Those cases were \"State v. Morales\" and \"Michigan Organization for Human Rights v. Kelley\". Citing these cases, the Kentucky court wrote: \"Thus our decision, rather than being the leading edge of change, is but a part of the moving stream.\" In time this statement was proven correct, as other states and eventually the United States Supreme Court reached the same conclusion as Kentucky had in \"Wasson\".\n\nAt the time, the decision - which was based solely on interpretation of the Kentucky Constitution - was at odds with federal case law on the same subject. The United States Supreme Court had previously held in \"Bowers v. Hardwick\" that federal constitutional protection of the right of privacy was not implicated in laws penalizing homosexual sodomy. It was not until years after the \"Wasson\" case that the United States Supreme Court revisited the issue and reversed its holding in \"Lawrence v. Texas\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843946", "title": "2005 in home video", "text": "2005 in home video\n\nThe following events occurred in the year 2005 in home video.\n\n\n\nThe following movies were released on video on the following dates:\n\nThe following television shows were released on video on the following dates:\n"}
{"id": "1843952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843952", "title": "2005 United Kingdom local elections", "text": "2005 United Kingdom local elections\n\nElections for local government were held in the England and Northern Ireland on 5 May 2005 along with the 2005 general election across the entire United Kingdom. In addition, the Isle of Wight held a local referendum on the issue of a directly elected mayor.\n\nDespite losing the general election held on the same day, the Conservatives made some gains at Labour's expense, providing some comfort to the party. Conservative leader Michael Howard resigned soon afterwards and was succeeded by David Cameron, who had a decent platform to build on in his challenge to lead the Conservatives to a general election victory; the party had increased its share of council seats and importantly its share of seats in parliament.\n\nSource: BBC local election results for England\n\nLike in 2001, many results were in line with the general election on the same day. \n\nThe Liberal Democrats gained Cornwall, whilst simultaneously winning Camborne & Falmouth from Labour, and thus holding every parliamentary seat in Cornwall. Similarly in Somerset too, where they regained Taunton from the Conservatives.\n\nThe Conservative gain in Gloucestershire coincided with their gain of Forest of Dean from Labour, the swing towards them in Cheltenham where the previous Lib Dem MP had retired and their near-miss result where Labour narrowly held on to Stroud. Worcestershire's result coincided with reduced Labour majorities in Worcester and Redditch, whilst overtaking Labour for second place in Wyre Forest. The Isle of Wight was also in line with the general election, which saw a huge increase in the Conservative majority on the island.\n\nNorthamptonshire coincided with Labour's losses in Kettering, Wellingborough and Northampton South, all of which were extremely marginal seats that the Conservatives narrowly lost in 1997 and where they failed to make any progress in 2001. Shropshire similarly coincided with 3 gains in the general elections for the Conservatives, where they took The Wrekin and Shrewsbury & Atcham from Labour and took Ludlow from the Liberal Democrats. Suffolk coincided with no actual seat gains in the general election, but swings to the Conservatives of at least 3% in all seven constituencies. The swings were larger in their own five constituencies, with a swing of almost 7% in Bury St Edmunds. \n\nThe Liberal Democrat gain in Devon, however, happened despite a mixed bag of results in the general election. They lost Devon West & Torridge to the Conservatives, and in Torbay, the Conservatives reduced their majority. There were small swings to the Lib Dems in Totnes, Teignbridge and Devon North, though a big swing away from them in Tiverton and Honiton.\n\nIn 34 shire county county council, all seats were up for re-election.\n‡ New electoral division boundaries\n\nIn two unitary authorities the whole council were up for election and one had a third of the council up for election.\n‡ New ward boundaries\n\nFour direct mayoral elections were held.\n\nAll seats were up for election in the 26 districts of Northern Ireland. The many parties and the use of the single transferable vote meant that most councils ended up in no overall control.\nThe DUP gained majority control of three councils: Ards, Ballymena, and Castlereagh.\n\nSource: ARK research and knowledge group\n\n"}
{"id": "1843955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843955", "title": "Powell v. State", "text": "Powell v. State\n\nPowell v. State of Georgia, S98A0755, 270 Ga. 327, 510 S.E. 2d 18 (1998) was a decision of the Supreme Court of Georgia. Anthony Powell was charged with a complaint in which he had performed non-consensual oral sex upon his wife's 17-year-old niece in his house. The jury acquitted him of the non-consensual portion of the complaint, but convicted him of consensual sodomy.\n\nIn its appeal, the defense argued the statute was unconstitutional; the state argued that a conviction such as this was explicitly upheld by the U.S. Supreme Court in the case of \"Bowers v. Hardwick\", 478 U.S. 186 (1986).\n\nIn \"Bowers\", the Attorney General of Georgia had conceded that the sodomy law could not be applied to married heterosexuals, given the U.S. Supreme Court's ruling in \"Griswold v. Connecticut\". Justice John Paul Stevens had observed in his \"Bowers\" dissent that \"Eisenstadt v. Baird\" had extended \"Griswold\" to unmarried heterosexuals, so the sodomy law should not apply to unmarried heterosexuals either.\n\nThe Georgia Supreme Court struck down the sodomy statute by a vote of 6–1. The Court found that the individual's right to privacy in the Georgia Constitution are stronger and broader than those in the U.S. Constitution's Fourth Amendment. The majority noted that \"privacy rights protected by the U.S. Constitution are not at issue in this case,\" while the dissenting justice cited \"Bowers\" extensively.\n\nPowell's conviction was overturned.\n\nAlthough this case involved heterosexual activity, the decision overturned the state's sodomy law and had the effect of making homosexual sexual activity legal in the State of Georgia. Sodomy laws were overturned nationwide five years later, when \"Lawrence v. Texas\" (2003) overruled \"Bowers v. Hardwick\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1843957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843957", "title": "Hurricane Hortense (disambiguation)", "text": "Hurricane Hortense (disambiguation)\n\nThe name Hortense was used for three tropical cyclones in the Atlantic Ocean.\n\nThe name Hortense was retired after the 1996 season, and will not be used again due to damage across Puerto Rico and the Dominican Republic by Hurricane Hortense in 1996; the name was replaced by Hanna in the 2002 season.\n"}
{"id": "1843962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843962", "title": "Miervaldis Polis", "text": "Miervaldis Polis\n\nMiervaldis Polis (born 23 July 1948, Riga, Latvia) is a Latvian painter and performance artist. In the early 1970s, he and Līga Purmale, his wife at the time, started a new trend of photorealism in Latvian painting. In the early 1980s, he turned to performance art, one of his most notable performances being \"The Bronze Man\", wherein he roamed the streets of Riga, Latvia, in a bronze suit, covered from head to toe in bronze paint. In the 1990s, after Latvia regained independence, Polis became known as the Latvian \"court painter,\" receiving commissions to paint the portraits of the Latvian elite, including former presidents Guntis Ulmanis and Vaira Vīķe-Freiberga.\n"}
{"id": "1843969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843969", "title": "Ella in Berlin: Mack the Knife", "text": "Ella in Berlin: Mack the Knife\n\nElla in Berlin is a 1960 live album by the American jazz singer Ella Fitzgerald. This album was inducted into the Grammy Hall of Fame in 1999, which is a special Grammy award established in 1973 to honor recordings that are at least twenty-five years old, and that have \"qualitative or historical significance.\"\nOne of Fitzgerald's most acclaimed live performances, at this concert in Berlin, Fitzgerald improvised lyrics for \"Mack the Knife\" after forgetting the original lyrics. In recognition of this, she received the Best Female Vocal Performance (Single) and the Best Vocal Performance, Female (Album) at the 3rd Annual Grammy Awards.\n\nOriginal Verve release from 1960 \"Ella in Berlin: Mack the Knife\" on MG VS-64041; featuring 9 tracks.\n\nSide One:\n\n\nSide Two:\n\n\nVerve re-issue from 1993 \"The Complete Ella in Berlin: Mack the Knife\" on Verve 314 519 564-2; featuring 13 vocal performances.\n\nThe 1993 re-issue, and all later releases, include 4 bonus tracks. Tracks 1 and 2 were recorded at the Berlin concert in January 1960 and had been rediscovered on a reel-to-reel tape of the initially recorded for radio broadcast. Tracks 7 and 8 were mistakenly identified as being part of the live recording made from the concert, both tracks had appeared on a Dutch pressing of the album in 1960. The two performances had actually been recorded in August 1956 and previously released on the 2-LP set \"Jazz at the Hollywood Bowl\" on Verve MG V 8231-2. The mistake was discovered post-production of this CD release.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843974", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843974", "title": "Héctor Babenco", "text": "Héctor Babenco\n\nHéctor Eduardo Babenco (February 7, 1946July 13, 2016) was an Argentine-Brazilian film director, screenwriter, producer and actor who worked in worked in several countries including Brazil, Argentina, and the United States. He was one of the first Brazilian filmmakers to gain international critical acclaim, through his films which often dealt with social outcasts on the fringes of society. His best-known works include \"Pixote\" (1980), \"Kiss of the Spider Woman\" (1985), \"Ironweed\" (1987), \"At Play in the Fields of the Lord\" (1990) and \"Carandiru\" (2003).\n\nBarbenco's films brought him several accolades. He was nominated three times for the Palme d'Or of the Cannes Film Festival, and was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Director for \"Kiss of the Spider Woman.\" He won the Grande Prêmio do Cinema Brasileiro twice, and the Prêmio ACIE de Cinema once.\n\nBabenco was born in Buenos Aires and raised in Mar del Plata. His mother, Janka Haberberg, was a Polish Jewish immigrant, and his father, Jaime Babenco, was an Argentine \"gaucho\" of Ukrainian Jewish origin. Babenco lived in Europe from 1964 to 1968. In 1969, he decided to stay in São Paulo, Brazil, permanently.\n\nHis first solo feature film as a director was \"O Rei da Noite\" (\"King of the Night\") (1975), starring Paulo José and Marília Pêra.\n\nBabenco had an international success with \"Pixote – A lei do mais fraco\" (1981). It concerns Brazil's abandoned children. In the words of E. Ruby Rich while it concerns \"a pair of boys who form a symbiotic sexual union\", the film cannot \"be held up as an example of how gay desire can be depicted, given its sensationalistic and sordid treatment of gay sex as accommodation, substitution, and punishment\". The film featured impressive work of young actor Fernando Ramos da Silva, 10 years old at the time, who was discovered in the suburbs of São Paulo. The film received numerous prizes.\n\nFor \"Kiss of the Spider Woman\" (1985), Babenco was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Director, the first Latin American to be nominated in this category.\n\nHe directed some of the most respected American actors of his time, including William Hurt, John Lithgow, Raul Julia, Jack Nicholson, Meryl Streep, Tom Berenger, Daryl Hannah, Aidan Quinn and Kathy Bates.\n\nIn 2012 Babenco was part of the jury in the 34th Moscow International Film Festival.\n\nHis last film was \"My Hindu Friend\" (2016), which stars Willem Dafoe. It recounts the story of a film director close to death.\n\nIn 2010, Barbenco married actress Bárbara Paz. He was previously married to Xuxa Lopes and Raquel Arnaud. He was the father of two daughters, Janka Babenco and Myra Arnaud Babenco, from his previous marriages, and also had two grandchildren. \n\nIn 1994, Babenco fell ill and had to undergo a bone marrow transplant to treat a lymphatic cancer.\n\nOn July 12, 2016, Barbenco was admitted to Hospital Sírio-Libanês to treat sinusitis. The following night, he suffered a cardiac arrest, and passed away shortly thereafter.\n\n"}
{"id": "1843975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843975", "title": "Tropical Storm Marco", "text": "Tropical Storm Marco\n\nThe name Marco has been used for three tropical cyclones in the Atlantic Ocean.\n"}
{"id": "1843980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843980", "title": "Līga Purmale", "text": "Līga Purmale\n\nLīga Purmale (born 4 October 1948 in Dundaga, Latvian SSR) is a Latvian painter. At a young age she moved to Riga from the Latvian countryside to study painting, first at the Jānis Rozentāls Art High School and then at the Latvian Academy of Art. In the 1970s she and Miervaldis Polis, who was her husband at the time, started a new trend of photorealism in Latvian painting. She currently lives and works in Riga.\n\n"}
{"id": "1843988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843988", "title": "Hurricane Nana", "text": "Hurricane Nana\n\nThe name Nana has been used for two tropical cyclones in the Atlantic ocean.\n\n"}
{"id": "1844004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844004", "title": "Débora Falabella", "text": "Débora Falabella\n\nDébora Lima Falabella (born February 22, 1979) is a Brazilian actress.\n\nDébora was born in Belo Horizonte City, the daughter of actor Rogério Falabella and the lyrical singer Maria Olympia.\n\nDuring her childhood she became interested in acting and began to participate in plays. At fifteen she released her first professional play, Flicts, written by Ziraldo.\n\nFalabella continued acting in dramas. In her teens, she was one of the protagonists of the young adult telenovela \"Chiquititas\". She lived for a time in Argentina, where the story was filmed.\n\nAfter becoming an adult, she went to college to study advertising but then abandoned her studies when she received better offers. In a casting for actors, Falabella got her entrance into the most famous Brazilian television network, Rede Globo, in one of the seasons of the young adult series \"Malhação\" in 1998.\n\nAfter that the actress returned to her hometown to continue her work in theater, and eventually made a small role in the 1999 miniseries \"Mulher\".\n\nIn 2001, Débora premiered on Rede Globo telenovela starring in \"Um Anjo Caiu do Céu\". Her talent impressed and she was called to join the main cast \"O Clone\", and despite being among big players, young actress has been attracting attention for her brilliant performance, and earned her the award for Best Actress in Domingão Faustão.\n\nFalabella also began starring in films such as \"Françoise\", for which she was awarded Best Actress at the Festivals of Gramado and Brasilia, and received an honorable mention at the BR River Festival 2001; \"Dois Perdidos numa Noite Suja\", a 2002 film directed by José Joffily, for which she won awards for best actress in Brazil and a cinema Candango trophy; 2003 Lisbela e o Prisioneiro, and in 2004 \"Cazuza\" with Daniel de Oliveira. In the same year she also starred in the romantic comedy \"A Dona da História\" with the actor Rodrigo Santoro, directed by Daniel Filho.\n\nIn the miniseries \"JK\" she played the role of Sarah Kubitschek, wife of Brazilian president Juscelino Kubitschek. In 2006 she was cast to the leading role in the Emmy -nominated telenovela \"Sinhá Moça\". In 2007, director Daniel Filho, called on her again to star in the film Primo Basílio, where again Débora excels at acting.\n\nIn 2011, she played Clarisse, one of the main characters in the Emmy winner series, \"The Invisible Woman\", and starred again with actor Rodrigo Santoro, in the films \"My Country\" and \"Homens do Bem\".\n\n2012 Falabella returned to telenovelas, starring in the most successful television production, \"Avenida Brasil\" and gets several nominations for Best Lead Actress. In 2014, should interpret Ray, girlfriend of a serial killer in series \"Dupla Identidade\", Glória Perez.\n\nFalabella has a sister, the actress Cynthia Falabella, in 2005 she married Eduardo Hipolitho (better known as Chuck), a vocalist in the group Forgotten Boys. They have a daughter named Nina, in 2010 they separated.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1844006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844006", "title": "Triazine", "text": "Triazine\n\nTriazines are a class of nitrogen-containing heterocycles. The parent molecules' molecular formula is . They exist in three isomeric forms, 1,3,5-triazines being common.\n\nThe triazines have planar six-membered benzene-like ring but with three carbons replaced by nitrogens. The three isomers of triazine are distinguished by the positions of their nitrogen atoms, and are referred to as 1,2,3-triazine, 1,2,4-triazine, and 1,3,5-triazine. \n\nOther aromatic nitrogen heterocycles are pyridines with one ring nitrogen atom, diazines with 2 nitrogen atoms in the ring, triazoles with 3 nitrogens in a 5 membered ring, and tetrazines with 4 ring nitrogen atoms.\n\nA well known triazine is melamine (2,4,6-triamino-1,3,5-triazine). With three amino substituents, melamine is a precursor to commercial resins. Guanamines are closely related to melamine, except with one amino substituent replaced by an organic group. This difference is exploited in the use of guanamines to modify the crosslinking density in melamine resins. Some commercially important guanamines are benzoguanamine and acetoguanamine.\nAnother important triazine is cyanuric chloride (2,4,6-trichloro-1,3,5-triazine). Chlorine-substituted triazines are components of reactive dyes. These compounds react through a chlorine group with hydroxyl groups present in cellulose fibres in nucleophilic substitution, the other triazine positions contain chromophores. Triazine compounds are often used as the basis for various herbicides.\n\nTriazines also have wide use in the oil and gas and petroleum processing industries as a non-regenerating sulfide removal agent; they are applied to fluid streams to remove hydrogen sulfide gas and mercaptan species, which can decrease the quality of the processed hydrocarbon and be harmful to pipeline and facility infrastructure if not removed.\n\nThe more common 1,3,5-isomers are prepared by trimerization of nitrile and cyanide compounds, although more specialized methods are known.\n\nThe 1,2,3- and 1,2,4-Triazines are more specialized methods. The former family of triazines can be synthesized by thermal rearrangement of 2-azidocyclopropenes. Also mainly of specialized interest, the 1,2,4-isomer is prepared from condensation of 1,2-dicarbonyl compounds with amidrazones. A classical synthesis is also the Bamberger triazine synthesis.\n\nAlthough triazines are aromatic compounds, their resonance energy is much lower than in benzene. Electrophilic aromatic substitution is difficult but nucleophilic aromatic substitution easier than typical chlorinated benzenes. 2,4,6-Trichloro-1,3,5-triazine is easily hydrolyzed to cyanuric acid by heating with water. 2,4,6-Tris(phenoxy)-1,3,5-triazine results when the trichloride is treated with phenol. With amines, one or more chloride is displaced. The remaining chlorides are reactive, and this theme is the basis of the large field of reactive dyes. \n\nCyanuric chloride assists in the amidation of carboxylic acids.\n\nThe 1,2,4-triazines can react with electron-rich dienophiles in an inverse electron demand Diels-Alder reaction. This forms a bicyclic intermediate which normally then extrudes a molecule of nitrogen gas to form an aromatic ring again. In this way the 1,2,4-triazines can be reacted with alkynes to form pyridine rings. An alternative to using an alkyne is to use norbornadiene which can be thought of as a masked alkyne.\n\nIn 2007, a method for synthesizing highly porous triazine-based polymers was discovered, and found to be useful (in conjunction with palladium) for the selective reduction of phenols.\n\nA series of 1,2,4-triazine derivatives known as bis-triazinyl bipyridines (BTPs) have been considered as possible extractants for use in the advanced nuclear reprocessing. BTPs are molecules containing a pyridine ring bonded to two 1,2,4-triazin-3-yl groups.\n\nTriazine-based ligands have been used to bind three dinuclear arene ruthenium (or osmium) compounds to form metallaprisms.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1844009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844009", "title": "Strangers in the Night", "text": "Strangers in the Night\n\n\"Strangers in the Night\" is a song credited to Ivo Robić and Bert Kaempfert with English lyrics by Charles Singleton and Eddie Snyder. Kaempfert originally used it under the title \"Beddy Bye\" as part of the instrumental score for the movie \"A Man Could Get Killed.\" The song was made famous in 1966 by Frank Sinatra, although it was initially given to Melina Mercouri, who thought that a man's vocals would better suit the melody and therefore declined to sing it.\n\nReaching #1 on both the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 chart and the Easy Listening chart, it was the title song for Sinatra's 1966 album \"Strangers in the Night\", which became his most commercially successful album. The song also reached No. 1 on the UK Singles Chart.\n\nSinatra's recording won him the Grammy Award for Best Male Pop Vocal Performance and the Grammy Award for Record of the Year, as well as a Grammy Award for Best Arrangement Accompanying a Vocalist or Instrumentalist for Ernie Freeman at the Grammy Awards of 1967.\n\nIn an interview, Avo Uvezian gave an account of the story behind \"Strangers in the Night\", stating that he originally composed the song for Frank Sinatra while in New York at the request of a mutual friend who wanted to introduce the two. He wrote the melody after which someone else put in the lyrics and the song was originally titled \"Broken Guitar\". He presented the song to Sinatra a week later, but Sinatra did not like the lyrics, so they were rewritten and the song was renamed and became known as \"Strangers in the Night\".\n\nWhen asked about why someone else (Kaempfert) was claiming the song, Uvezian went on to say that since Kaempfert was a friend of his and in the industry, he asked him to publish the German version in Germany so the two could split the profits, since Uvezian did not feel he would get paid for his work on the song in the US. Uvezian stated that when he gave the music to Kaempfert the song had already been renamed and lyrics revised. Uvezian also stated that Kaempfert gave him a letter acknowledging Uvezian as the composer.\n\nIt is sometimes claimed that Croatian singer Ivo Robić was the original composer of \"Strangers in the Night\", and that he sold the rights to Kaempfert after entering it without success in a song contest in Yugoslavia. This has not been substantiated. Robić—often referred to as \"Mr. Morgen\" for his 1950s charts success with \"Morgen\", created in collaboration with Bert Kaempfert—was rather the singer of the Croatian-language version of the song, called \"Stranci u noći.\" \n\nIt was published in 1966 by the Yugoslav record company Jugoton under the serial number EPY-3779. On the label of the record, Kaempfert and Marija Renota are stated as authors, wherein Renota is the author of the Croatian lyrics. The original composition of \"Strangers\" was under the title \"Beddy Bye\"—referring to the lead character William Beddoes—as an instrumental for the score of the movie \"A Man Could Get Killed.\"\n\nThe phrase \"Strangers in the Night\" was created after the composition, when New York music publishers Roosevelt Music requested that lyricists Eddie Snyder and Charles Singleton put some words to the tune. \"Stranci u noći\" is a literal translation of this phrase.\n\nIn an interview on Croatian TV with a renowned Croatian composer Stjepan Mihaljinec, Robić stated that he had composed a song \"Ta ljetna noć\" (\"That Summer Night\") and sent it to a festival in former Yugoslavia, where it was rejected. Then he sang a first few tunes from that song, identical to the first few tunes from \"Strangers in the Night\" (\"Strangers in the night, exchanging glances...\"). He added that, later, Bert Kaempfert “composed” for him that very same song, which later became known as \"Strangers in the Night\".\n\nIn 1967 French composer Michel Philippe-Gérard (more commonly known as Philippe-Gérard) established a claim that the melody of \"Strangers\" was based on his composition \"Magic Tango\", which was published in 1953 through Chappells in New York. Royalties from the song were thus frozen until a court in Paris ruled in 1971 against plagiarism, stating that many songs were based on similar constant factors.\n\nThe track was recorded on April 11, 1966, one month before the rest of the album. Hal Blaine was the drummer on the record and Glen Campbell played rhythm guitar..\n\nOne of the most memorable and recognizable features of the record is Sinatra's scat improvisation of the melody (on take two) with the syllables \"doo-be-doo-be-doo\" as the song fades to the end. For the CD \"Nothing but the Best,\" the song was remastered and the running time is 2:45 instead of the usual 2:35. The extra ten seconds is just a continuation of Sinatra's scat singing. In 1968, CBS television executive Fred Silverman was inspired by the scat whilst listening to the recording on a red-eye flight to a development meeting for a Saturday morning cartoon show and decided to rename the dog character to \"Scooby-Doo\".\n\nSinatra despised the song, calling it at one time \"a piece of shit\" and \"the worst fucking song that I have ever heard.\" He was not afraid to voice his disapproval of playing it live. In spite of his contempt for the song, for the first time in 11 years he had a #1 hit, and it remained on the charts for 15 weeks.\n\n\"Strangers in the Night\" was covered by many other artists, among them:\n\nThe song has been recorded in Spanish by several artists under the title \"Extraños en la noche\", among them: \n\n"}
{"id": "1844012", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844012", "title": "Burgage", "text": "Burgage\n\nBurgage is a medieval land term used in Great Britain and Ireland, well established by the 13th century. \n\nA burgage was a town (\"borough\" or \"burgh\") rental property (to use modern terms), owned by a king or lord. The property (\"burgage tenement\") usually, and distinctly, consisted of a house on a long and narrow plot of land (Scots: \"toft\"), with a narrow street frontage. Rental payment (\"tenure\") was usually in the form of money, but each \"burgage tenure\" arrangement was unique, and could include services. \n\nAs populations grew, \"burgage plots\" could be split into smaller additional units. (Amalgamation was not so common, until the second half of the 19th century.) \n\nBurgage tenures were usually money based, in contrast to rural tenures which were usually services based. In Saxon times the rent was called a \"landgable\" or \"hawgable\".\n\nBurgage was the basis of the right to vote in many boroughs sending members to the House of Commons before 1832. In these boroughs the right to vote was attached to the occupation of particular burgage tenements. These burgages could be freely bought and sold, and the owner of the tenement was entitled to convey the right vote, for the duration of the election, to another person, their \"nominee\", who could then vote. The vote of each person entitled to the franchise was a matter of public record. Therefore the owner could monitor their nominees' votes. By purchasing the majority of the burgages one rich person could acquire the right to elect a Member of Parliament. Such burgage boroughs were called pocket boroughs. Most of the burgage boroughs had become pocket boroughs in this way by the time of the Great Reform Act 1832. The practice was abolished by the Act, which applied a uniform voting right to all boroughs.\n\nIn medieval England and Scotland, and some parts of the Welsh Marches, burgage plots or burgage tenements were inclosed fields extending the confines of a town, established by the lord of the manor, as divisions of the 'open' manorial fields. The burgesses (equivalents of \"burghers\") to whom these tracts were allotted, as tenants of the enclosed lands, paid a cash rent instead of, as previously, feudal service. In 1207, for instance, Maurice Paynell, the Lord of the Manor of Leeds, granted a charter to 'his burgesses of Leeds' to build a 'new town', and so created the first borough of Leeds, Briggate, a street running north from the River Aire.\n\nThese burgesses had to be freemen: those who were entitled to practise a trade within the town and to participate in electing members of the town's ruling council.\n\nIn the very earliest chartered foundations, predating the Norman Conquest, the burgage plots were simply the ploughland strips of pre-existing agrarian settlements. In towns like Burford in Oxfordshire and Chipping Campden in Gloucestershire, Bromyard in Herefordshire, and Cricklade in Wiltshire, the property on the road frontage extends in a very long garden plot behind the dwelling even today, as English property boundaries have remained very stable. In South Zeal, in Devon, burgage plots were known as \"borough acres\".\n\nThe basic unit of measurement was the perch which was 5.5 yards (5.03 m) and the plots can be identified today because they are in multiples of perches: at Cricklade most were 2 by 12 perches (10.1 by 60.4 m), while at Charmouth in Dorset, a charter of the year 1320 provided plots 4 perches wide and 20 perches long (about 20 by 100 m), giving a typical plot size of half an acre (0.2 hectare), held at an annual rent of 6d.\n\nBurgage grants were also common in Ireland; for example, when the town of Wexford received its royal charter in 1418, English settlers were encouraged into the town and were given burgage plots at a rent of one shilling per year. The term was translated into Irish as \"buiríos\", and the element \"Borris\" survives in many Irish place names.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1844014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844014", "title": "Timeline of the Napoleonic era", "text": "Timeline of the Napoleonic era\n\nNapoleon Bonaparte (15 August 1769 – 5 May 1821) was a French military and political leader who rose to prominence during the latter stages of the French Revolution and the Napoleonic Wars.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1844024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844024", "title": "Tropical Storm Allison (disambiguation)", "text": "Tropical Storm Allison (disambiguation)\n\nThe name Allison was used for three tropical cyclones in the Atlantic Ocean and the alternative spelling Alison has been used for one tropical cyclone in the Southwest Pacific Ocean and three in the southern Indian Ocean.\n\nThe name Allison was retired after the 2001 season, and was replaced by Andrea. The name Allison was itself a replacement for the name Alicia, retired after 1983's Hurricane Alicia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1844030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844030", "title": "Tropical Storm Barry", "text": "Tropical Storm Barry\n\nThe name Barry has been used for seven tropical cyclones in the Atlantic Ocean.\n\n\nThe name Barry has also been used for one tropical cyclone in the Australian region.\n\n"}
{"id": "1844039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844039", "title": "Annates", "text": "Annates\n\nAnnates ( or ; , from ', \"year\") were a payment from the recipient of an ecclesiastical benefice to the ordaining authorities. Eventually, they consisted of half or the whole of the first year's profits of a benefice; after the appropriation of right of consecration by the Vatican, they were paid to the papal treasury, ostensibly as a proffered contribution to the church. They were also known as the \"First Fruits\"' ('), a concept which dates back to earlier Greek, Roman, and Hebrew religions.\n\nThis custom was only of gradual growth. At a very early period bishops who received episcopal consecration in Rome were wont to present gifts to the various ecclesiastical authorities concerned. Out of this custom there grew up a prescriptive right to such gifts.\n\nThe \"jus deportuum, annalia\" or \"annatae\", was originally the right of the bishop to claim the first year's profits of the living from a newly inducted incumbent, of which the first mention is found under Pope Honorius III (d. 1227), but which had its origin in a custom, dating from the 6th century, by which those ordained to ecclesiastical offices paid a fee or tax to the ordaining bishop. Originally, in the thirteenth and fourteenth centuries, \"annatæ\" or \"annalia\", signified only the first-fruits of those lesser benefices of which the pope had reserved the patronage to himself, and granted outside of the consistory. It was from these claims that the papal annates, in the strict sense, in course of time developed. These accrues to the Apostolic Camera (Papal treasury ).\n\nThe earliest records show the \"annata\" to have been, sometimes a privilege conceded to the bishop for a term of years, sometimes a right based on immemorial precedent. In course of time the popes, under stress of financial crises, claimed the privilege for themselves, though at first only temporarily. Thus, in 1305, Pope Clement V claimed the first-fruits of all vacant benefices in England, and in 1319 Pope John XXII those of all Christendom vacated within the next two years. In those cases the rights of the bishops were frankly usurped by the Holy See, now regarded as the ultimate source of the episcopal jurisdiction.\n\nThese annates may be divided broadly into four classes, though the chief features are common to all:\n\n\nIt must not be supposed that this system ever was worked with absolute uniformity and completeness throughout the various parts of Catholic Christendom. There were continual disagreements and disputes: the central authorities endeavoring to maintain and extend this most important of their financial schemes and the subordinate ecclesiastics doing their best to get rid of the impost altogether or to transmute it into some less objectionable form. The easy expedient of rewarding the officials of the Curia and increasing the papal revenue by \"reserving\" more and more benefices was met by repeated protests, such as that of the bishops and barons of England (the chief sufferers), headed by Robert Grosseteste of Lincoln, at the council of Lyons in 1245. The subject frequently became one of national interest, on account of the alarming amount of specie which was thus drained away, and hence numerous enactments exist in regard to it by the various national governments.\n\nIn the Kingdom of England, which included Wales after the English conquest of 1277 to 1283, the annates were originally paid for the most part to the archbishop of Canterbury, but were claimed for three years by in the early 14th century and permanently usurped by his successors. The payments were originally governed by a valuation made by Walter Suffield, the bishop of Norwich, for in 1254; this was emended by Nicholas III in 1292. In 1531 or 1532, the total payments comprised around £3,000 a year and prohibited their collection. In 1534, Thomas Cromwell obtained from parliament the Act in Restraint of Annates, which restored the annates as a payment owed to the Crown. A new valuation was established by the commissioners who wrote the \"King's Books\" () in 1535. In February 1704, they were granted by Queen Anne to the assistance of the poorer clergy, a scheme since known as \"Queen Anne's Bounty\". The 1535 valuations were still in use in 1704, and their continued use was inherent in the Act setting up Queen Anne's Bounty; consequently the 'first fruits' payments did not increase to reflect the true value of livings; by 1837, the Ecclesiastical Commissioners reported first fruits to bring in £4,000-5,000 a year whereas church income was around £3m a year and the true value of first fruits would therefore have been over £150,000 a year.\nIn Scotland, the \"annat\" or \"ann\" is half a year's stipend allowed to the executors of a minister of the Church of Scotland above what was due to him at the time of his death. This is neither assignable by the clergyman during his life nor can it be seized by his creditors.\n\nIn France, in spite of royal edicts and even denunciations of the Sorbonne, at least the custom of paying the \"servitia communia\" held its ground until the famous decree of August 4 during the French Revolution in 1789.\n\nIn Germany it was decided by the concordat of Constance, in 1418, that bishoprics and abbacies should pay the \"servitia\" according to the valuation of the Roman chancery in two half-yearly installments. Those reserved benefices only were to pay the \"annalia\" which were rated above twenty-four gold florins; and as none were so rated, whatever their annual value may have been, the annalia fell into disuse. A similar convenient fiction also led to their practical abrogation in France, Spain and Belgium. The council of Basel (1431–1443) wished to abolish the \"servitia\", but the concordat of Vienna (1448) confirmed the Constance decision, which, in spite of the efforts of the congress of Ems (1786) to alter it, still remains nominally in force. As a matter of fact, however, the revolution caused by the secularization of the ecclesiastical states in 1803 practically put an end to the system, and the \"servitia\" have either been commuted \"via gratiae\" to a moderate fixed sum under particular concordats, or are the subject of separate negotiation with each bishop on his appointment. In Prussia, where the bishops received salaries as state officials, the payment was made by the government.\n\n\nAttribution\n"}
{"id": "1844041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844041", "title": "List of prime ministers of Eswatini", "text": "List of prime ministers of Eswatini\n\nThis is a list of Prime Ministers of Eswatini () since the formation of the post of Prime Minister of Eswatini in 1967, to the present day.\n\nA total of nine people have served as Prime Minister of Eswatini (not counting six Acting Prime Ministers). Additionally, one person, Barnabas Sibusiso Dlamini, has served on two non-consecutive occasions.\n\nThe current Prime Minister of Eswatini is Ambrose Mandvulo Dlamini, since 29 October 2018.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1844051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844051", "title": "ITE College West", "text": "ITE College West\n\nITE College West (Abbreviation: ITE CW-CK) (Formerly known as ITE West Network) is an educational institution under the Institute of Technical Education. In 2010, a single campus was built in the Choa Chu Kang and replaced its five smaller network campuses as part of ITE's \"One ITE System, Three Colleges\" plan. The field of focus of College West is Hospitality & Services and Automotive Technology. It is located at Choa Chu Kang Grove within walking distance to Teck Whye LRT station.\n\nOriginally the campuses are located at Dover, Balestier, Ang Mo Kio, Bukit Batok and Clementi. All satellite have been demolished and the ITE main Headquarters has shifted to ITE College Central. The ITE at Balestier became Northlight School while the ITEs at Dover and Bukit Batok became Singapore Institute of Technology campus and SkyPeak @ Bukit Batok HDB flats respectively.\n\nIn July 2010, the new 9.54-hectare mega-campus opened, operating four schools - the School of Business and Services, School of Hospitality, School of Engineering and School of Info-Comm Technology. At this time, several of the network campuses were closed and the courses were transferred to the campus. The campus, which was built by Gammon Construction under a PPP contract, was officially opened on 18 April 2011 by Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong.\n\nStudents are to wear the prescribed uniform. Inside the collar, there is a colour that represents different courses. Students are required to be in Physical Outfit for Physical Activities, students can/will change back to school uniform after Physical Activities. The Physical Education T - Shirt is a plain white shirt with 2 strips of the course colours. The colours below represents different types of courses :\n\n\nStudents can participate in many co-curricular activities (CCA) organised by Clubs, Committees, and community service societies. Actively contributing in the CCA can help to attain a 'CCA bonus point' of 0.2, 0.15, 0.1 and 0.05 respectively, where it can help ITE graduates who are progressing to ITE Higher Nitec or Polytechnic diploma courses.\n\n\n\n\nThe College has four schools:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1844059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844059", "title": "Tropical Storm Dean", "text": "Tropical Storm Dean\n\nThe name Dean was used for five tropical cyclones in the Northern Atlantic Ocean:\n\nThe name was retired after 2007, and was replaced by \"Dorian\" in the 2013 season. \n\nIn the Southeastern Indian Ocean:\n"}
{"id": "1844070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844070", "title": "Agnano", "text": "Agnano\n\nAgnano is a suburb of Napoli, Italy, situated southwest of the city in the Campi Flegrei region. It was popular among both ancient Greeks and Romans and was famed for its hot sulphurous springs.\n\nLake Agnano formed in the Middle Ages in the volcanic crater but was drained in 1870 to increase arable land and reduce the habitat of the Anopheles mosquito, which carries the malaria parasite. The crater is now home to the Agnano hippodrome and the town.\n\nAfter World War II, Agnano was home to the U.S. Naval Support Activity consisting of the U.S. Naval Hospital, administrative offices and barracks.\n\nThe ruins of ancient thermal baths originally from the Greek period are visible although the existing structures date mainly from the Roman period of the 1st-2nd century AD. Magnificent mosaics and sculptures were discovered here. The remains are located in the grounds of the modern spa. They included an apodyterium, frigidarium, and several warm rooms (tepidaria, calidaria and laconica). The baths were probably part of a station beside the road from Neapolis and Puteoli and were fed by the Aqua Augusta (Serino aqueduct), which passed along the rim of the crater just above, as well as the local hot springs.\n\nThe Grotto of the Dog is nearby, an ancient cave, originally part of the baths, which fills with volcanic carbon dioxide which has killed animals that entered it.\n\nA group of statues of muses, including the famous \"Frankfurt Urania\", was discovered in the Roman baths and is now in the Liebieghaus museum. The figures, dating from 120-100BC, had been removed from their original location in ancient times and it is believed that they were originally from Delos near the temple of Apollo. The fine execution of the robes is especially skillful and their arrangement and textures emphasise the figures’ beautiful bodies. Although the condition of the group is somewhat fragmentary, the style is very naturalistic.\n\nFour sculptures were also found in the frigidarium during the first excavations before 1911: Venus marina, armed Aphrodite, Hermes with child Dionysus, and Ganymede, now in the Naples museum.\n"}
{"id": "1844071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844071", "title": "Hurricane Erin", "text": "Hurricane Erin\n\nThe name Erin has been used for six tropical cyclones in the Atlantic Ocean:\n"}
{"id": "1844074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844074", "title": "Big Sky Resort", "text": "Big Sky Resort\n\nBig Sky Resort is a ski resort in southwestern Montana in Madison County, an hour south of Bozeman via U.S. Highway 191 in Big Sky, Montana. It is the second-largest ski resort in the United States by acreage.\n\nBig Sky Resort, which opened in late 1973, has more than of terrain and a vertical drop of , In July 2013, Big Sky Resort acquired on Spirit Mountain, which were previously owned by Spanish Peaks, a private club. In October of the same year, Big Sky Resort acquired the terrain and facilities of Moonlight Basin, a neighboring resort that shared the northern exposure of Lone Mountain.\n\nBig Sky Resort also offers meeting space for conferences, weddings, and corporate retreats.\n\nThe resort was founded by Montana native Chet Huntley, the retired co-anchorman of \"The Huntley–Brinkley Report\" of NBC News. Big Sky opened in December 1973, with its main base area at an elevation of above sea level, on the eastern face of the Lone Mountain, the sixty-seventh highest mountain in Montana, and the seventh-highest mountain in the state outside of the Beartooth Range.\n\nThe first four lifts installed included a gondola and three chairlifts. The enclosed gondola carried four skiers per cabin, and climbed to an elevation of . The nearby \"Lone Peak\" triple chairlift provided the lift-served maximum of , unloading at the bowl beneath Lone Mountain's summit, providing a vertical drop of just under . The \"Explorer\" double chair served novice terrain just above the base, and the \"Andesite\" double climbed the north face of adjacent Andesite Mountain to . This lift was renamed \"Ram's Horn\" in 1978, and replaced with the \"Ramcharger\" high speed quad in 1990.\n\nBoyne Resorts purchased the resort in 1976, following Huntley's death from cancer in March 1974, and the decision of owner Chrysler Corporation to divest its real estate development assets.\nThe resort grew steadily over the following decades, adding lifts and more than tripling the terrain available for skiing and snowboarding. The fifth lift, a second chairlift on Andesite Mountain, was installed in the summer of 1979. The \"Mad Wolf\" double climbed Andesite's eastern face and lowered Big Sky's minimum elevation to . This increased the area's vertical drop to over . The \"Mad Wolf\" lift was replaced with the \"Thunder Wolf\" high speed quad in 1994.\n\nTwo lifts were added in the 1980s, \"Gondola Two\" was installed in parallel to the first gondola, and the \"Challenger\" double chair served upper-elevation expert terrain on the north edge of the ski area. A tow was later added above this lift. \"Gondola Two\" was replaced with a Doppelmayr high speed quad, Swift Current 4, in 1997. The eighth lift at Big Sky was the \"Southern Comfort\" on the south side of Andesite Mountain, a Heron-Poma triple chairlift acquired from Copper Mountain in Colorado, installed in 1990 and upgraded to a high speed quad for the 2004-2005 ski season.\n\nIn the fall of 1995, Big Sky installed the \"Lone Peak Tram\" to provide access to expert terrain from the Lone Mountain summit. The \"Shedhorn\" double chair was also part of this expansion, installed in 1995 on the lower south face of Lone Mountain.\n\nThe tram increased Big Sky's vertical drop to . The minimum elevation was lowered further in the fall of 1999, with the addition of a used triple chairlift from Keystone Resort in Colorado, starting at a base elevation of at Lone Moose Meadows. This increased the ski area's total vertical drop to , with the maximum continuous vertical drop increased to from the top of the tram to the main base area.\n\nIn 1990 the Shoshone Condominium Hotel and the Yellowstone Conference Center were built.\n\nIn April 2000, Boyne Resorts announced that an estimated $400 million in improvements would take place over the next ten years to the Mountain Village and the ski area. Later in 2000, the $54 million Summit Hotel was completed. In late 2007, the $25 million Village Center Complex was opened.\n\nIn 2007, Big Sky expanded the skiing opportunities on the south face of Lone Peak with the reinstallation of the original Southern Comfort triple chairlift as the Dakota chairlift on the south side of Lone Peak, providing access to the accompanying out-of-bounds sidecountry, Dakota Territory. \"Gondola One\" was retired in the summer of 2008, dismantled due to the rising cost of repairs.\n\nBig Sky's neighbor on its north boundary, Moonlight Basin, merged with Big Sky Resort in October 2013.\n\nIn 2016, Big Sky Resort installed two new Doppelmayr chairlifts as part of BigSky2025, a 10-year, $150-million project. The Lone Peak triple chairlift in the bowl was replaced with \"Powder Seeker\", a six-seat high-speed chairlift with heated seats and bubble covers. The same summer, the Challenger double chairlift, which had suffered a mechanical failure, was replaced by a triple chairlift with a conveyor load.\n\nIn 2018, as part of the Big Sky 2025 plan, Doppelmay built North America's first ever high speed eight pack in the form of the Ramcharger 8, which replaced an existing Doppelmayr high speed quad from the base area to the summit of Andesite Mountain and has many of the same features as Powder Seeker. Billed as \"the most technologically advanced lift ever built,\" it opened on December 15, 2018. That same season, the original Ramcharger high speed quad was relocated to the south side of Lone Peak where it replaced the Shedhorn double chairlift. \n\nBig Sky Resort is primarily known for its winter activities, which include skiing and snowboarding, seven terrain parks, zip-line and snowshoeing, but it has become an increasingly popular summer attraction. Several zip-lines, archery, tennis, hiking, and mountain biking trails are available on the mountain, with golf and Horseback riding available near the Meadow Village at an elevation of , between the ski area and US-191.\n\n\nThe Lone Peak Tram is an aerial tramway at the Big Sky Resort that begins at the top of the Powder Seeker chairlift and unloads at the summit of Lone Mountain at . Opened in the fall of 1995, the 15 passenger cab climbs over a distance of , with two cabs traveling in opposite directions. It provides access to the most difficult terrain at Big Sky Resort, including former Moonlight Basin terrain. Construction was completed by the high-altitude construction firm Matrix, based in Alaska.\n\nStarting in the summer 2012 season, Big Sky Resort introduced daily summer tram rides to take visitors to the top of Lone Peak, called The Lone Peak Expedition.\n\n"}
{"id": "1844082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844082", "title": "Boigu Island (Queensland)", "text": "Boigu Island (Queensland)\n\nBoigu Island (also known as Malu Kiyay or Malu Kiwai) is the most northerly inhabited island of Queensland and of Australia. It is part of the top-western group of the Torres Strait Islands, which lie in the Torres Strait separating Cape York Peninsula from the island of New Guinea. The mainland of Papua New Guinea is only away from Boigu. Boigu has an area of . Boigu is also the name of the town and Boigu Island is the name of the locality on the island within the Torres Strait Island Region.\n\nIt is the largest and only inhabited island of the Talbot Islands group of the Torres Strait Islands.\n\nThe language of Boigu is that of the Western and Central Islands of the Torres Strait. The specific dialect is Kalau Kawau Ya, also spoken on the islands of Dauan and Saibai. The people of the three islands consider themselves as one people.\n\nKala Kawaw Ya (also known as Kalaw Kawaw, KKY) is one of the languages of the Torres Strait. Kala Kawaw Ya is the traditional language owned by the Top Western islands of the Torres Strait. The Kala Kawaw Ya language region includes the landscape within the local government boundaries of the Torres Shire Council.\n\nBoigu was visited by South Sea Islander missionaries of the London Missionary Society, some time after the establishment of a mission on nearby Saibai Island in 1871.\n\nFrom the 1870s to around 1910, the Boigu, Dauan and Saibai people, along with the neighbouring Papuan peoples, were being harassed by \"thugeral\" \"warriors\" from the Marind-anim, fierce headhunters from what is now southeast West Papua. In literature dealing with the period, these people are generally termed 'Tuger' or 'Tugeri'. Sir William MacGregor, the Lieutenant-Governor of British New Guinea, noted in 1886 that the population was nearly extinct as a result of these raids. What he did not realise was that at the time the bulk of the population were staying with family on Saibai and Dauan for mutual protection.\n\nBoigu is approximately long, and low-lying. It was formed by the accumulation of alluvial sediments deposited by the discharge of nearby New Guinean rivers into the Strait. These sediments built up over time on an old coral platform which rises from the shallow continental shelf, eventually creating the island.\n\nMost of the island is subject to extensive periodic flooding, and as a result the community township has been built on the highest ground.\n\nTwo nearby smaller islands (not permanently settled) are considered as a part of Boigu island, more accurately of the Talbot Islands, these are Aubusi Island and Moimi Island.\n\nThe island is considered part of the New Guinea mangroves ecoregion, a subset of the Australasian realm.\n\nThe interior of the island is sparsely vegetated, and mainly swampland. The coast is fringed by mangroves, which act to protect against the island's sand and mud from sea erosion.\n\nIt is likely the mangrove regions harbour healthy populations of saltwater crocodile.\n\nThe waters surrounding the island are an important habitat for dugongs, a species of sea mammal listed as vulnerable by the IUCN.\n\nBoigu is predominantly inhabited by indigenous Torres Strait Islanders. According to 2004 Torres Strait Regional Authority (TSRA) figures, its resident population is approximately 340.\nCurrently there are approximately 260 people living on the island (2008).\n\nThe village of Boigu at the northern end of the island is the northernmost settlement of Australia. The northernmost island, however, is Bramble Cay, to the east.\n\nThe Torres Strait Island Regional Council operate an Indigenous Knowledge Centre at 66 Chamber Street.\n\nTagai State College - Malu Kiwai Island Campus opened on 1 January 2007. It was formerly known as Malu Kiwai State School before the amalgamation of 17 Torres Strait Island Schools to form Tagai State College.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1844087", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844087", "title": "Liu Tianhua", "text": "Liu Tianhua\n\nLiu Tianhua (; 1895–1932) was a Chinese musician and composer best known for his innovative work for the \"erhu\" (Chinese two-string fiddle).\n\nLiu's students, such as Jiang Fengzhi and Chen Zhenduo, continued to contribute to the development of the \"erhu\".\n\nHe was the younger brother of the poet Liu Bannong.\n\nTitle in pinyin (Chinese characters) year (translation of title)\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1844102", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844102", "title": "Chewing gum ban in Singapore", "text": "Chewing gum ban in Singapore\n\nThe chewing gum sales ban in Singapore has been in place since 1992. Since 2004, an exception has existed for therapeutic, dental, or nicotine chewing gum, which can be bought from a doctor or registered pharmacist. It is currently not illegal to chew gum in Singapore, merely to import it and sell it, apart from the aforementioned exceptions. \n\nIn his memoirs, Lee Kuan Yew said that in 1983, when he was Prime Minister of Singapore, a proposal for the ban was brought to him by Teh Cheang Wan, then Minister for National Development. Chewing gum was causing maintenance problems in high-rise public-housing apartments, with vandals disposing of spent gum in mailboxes, inside keyholes, and on lift buttons. Chewing gum left on the ground, stairways, and pavements in public areas increased the cost of cleaning and damaged cleaning equipment. Gum stuck on the seats of public buses was also considered a problem. However, Lee thought that a ban would be \"too drastic\".\n\nIn 1987, the $5 billion local railway system, the Mass Rapid Transit (MRT), started running. It was then the largest public project ever implemented in Singapore.\n\nIt was reported that vandals had begun sticking chewing gum on the door sensors of MRT trains, preventing doors from functioning properly and causing disruption to train services. Such incidents were rare but costly and culprits were difficult to apprehend. In January 1992, Goh Chok Tong, who had just taken over as Prime Minister, decided on a ban. The restriction on the distribution of chewing gum was enacted in Singapore Statute Chapter 57, the \"Control of Manufacture Act\", which also governs the restriction of certain alcohol and tobacco products.\n\nAfter the ban was announced, the import of chewing gum was immediately halted. After a transition period allowing shops to clear existing stock, the sale of chewing gum was completely banned.\n\nWhen first introduced, the ban caused much controversy and some open defiance. Some people took the trouble of travelling to neighbouring Johor Bahru, Malaysia, to purchase chewing gum. Offenders were publicly \"named and shamed\" by the government, to serve as a deterrent to other would-be smugglers. No black market for chewing gum in Singapore ever emerged, though some Singaporeans occasionally still manage to smuggle some chewing gum from Johor Bahru for their own consumption. The ban has been partially lifted, as some types of gum are allowable, such as gum chewed for dental health. However, the government refuses to completely lift the ban due to the risk of gum littering again.\n\nIn the mid 1990s, Singapore's laws began to receive international press coverage. US media paid great attention to the case of Michael P. Fay, an American teenager sentenced in 1994 to caning in Singapore for vandalism (using spray paint, not chewing gum). They also drew attention to some of Singapore's other laws, including the \"mandatory flushing of public toilets\" rule. Confused reporting about these issues led to the myth that the use or importation of chewing gum is itself punishable with caning. In fact, the only penalties provided under Chapter 57 are fines and imprisonment.\n\nWhen a BBC reporter suggested that such draconian laws would stifle the people's creativity, Lee Kuan Yew said: \"If you can't think because you can't chew, try a banana.\"\"\n\nIn 1999, United States President Bill Clinton and Singapore Prime Minister Goh Chok Tong agreed to initiate talks between the two countries for a bilateral free trade agreement (USS-FTA). The talks later continued under the new administration of President George W. Bush. By the final phase of negotiations in early 2003, there remained two unresolved issues: the War in Iraq and chewing gum.\n\nThe Chicago-based Wm. Wrigley Jr. Company enlisted the help of a Washington, D.C lobbyist and of Illinois Congressman Phil Crane, then-chairman of the United States House Ways and Means Subcommittee on Trade, to get chewing gum on the agenda of the United States-Singapore Free Trade Agreement. This caused a dilemma for the Singapore Government. It recognised the health benefits of certain gums, such as a brand of sugar-free gum that contains calcium lactate to strengthen tooth enamel. Sale of this newly categorised medicinal gum was allowed, provided it was sold by a dentist or pharmacist, who must take down the names of buyers.\n\nIn May 2003, the USS-FTA was signed and the ban was revised. \"They were tough,\" Crane said of the talks. Some found it surprising that Wrigley had fought hard on this battle, given the small size of Singapore's chewing market. But the company said it was worth it. \"There's many examples in our history of things that may have not made short-term financial sense but was the right thing to do in a philosophical or long-term sense,\" said Christopher Perille, Wrigley's senior director of corporate communications.\n\n"}
{"id": "1844111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844111", "title": "Edward Windsor, Lord Downpatrick", "text": "Edward Windsor, Lord Downpatrick\n\nEdward Edmund Maximilian George Windsor, Lord Downpatrick (born 2 December 1988), known professionally as Eddy Downpatrick, is an English fashion designer and former financial analyst. He is the co-founder and creative director of the British fashion label FIDIR. Lord Downpatrick is a relative of the British royal family. As second-in-line to the Dukedom of Kent, he uses one of his grandfather's subsidiary titles, Baron Downpatrick, by courtesy. He is the most senior member of the royal family to be excluded from the line of succession for being Catholic.\n\nDownpatrick was born on 2 December 1988 at St Mary's Hospital, London, and grew up in Cambridge. He is the eldest child of George Windsor, Earl of St Andrews, son and heir apparent of Prince Edward, Duke of Kent. Downpatrick's mother, Sylvana Tomaselli, is a Canadian historian of Austro-Italian and French extraction. Diana, Princess of Wales, was Downpatrick's godmother, but she died before he got to know her well.\n\nDownpatrick is close to his third cousin Princess Beatrice of York and to his younger sisters, Lady Marina and Lady Amelia Windsor, a fashion model. His great-grandmother Princess Marina, Duchess of Kent, was the British royal family's fashion icon in the post-war era.\n\nDownpatrick graduated from Eton College and enrolled at Keble College, Oxford, where he studied Modern Languages with a specialisation in French and German. At Oxford he was the president of the Bullingdon Club. He wanted to join the British Army after the university, but had not recovered from rugby injuries.\n\nDownpatrick first had the idea to launch a fashion brand while hiking in Scotland in 2009, but decided to first focus on his studies and career as a financial analyst at JP Morgan. \n\nDownpatrick left JP Morgan and began working as a fashion designer in 2016. He is a co-founder and the creative director of the fashion label FIDIR, which he launched with Justine Dalby in 2017. The brand is a collection of outdoor-wear and accessories. He designs handbags, wallets, sweatshirts, wash bags, and T-shirts. His designs are inspired by the Scottish Highlands.\n\nIn 2003, aged 15, following the example of his grandmother the Duchess of Kent and his uncle Lord Nicholas Windsor, Downpatrick, who was baptised in the Church of England, chose to be confirmed in the Roman Catholic Church. He was therefore barred from the line of succession to the British throne according to the Act of Settlement 1701. As a first cousin twice removed of Queen Elizabeth II, Downpatrick is the most senior person excluded from the line of succession for being a Roman Catholic; as of May 2019, he would have been 39th in line. He remains second in the line of succession, after his father, to the Dukedom of Kent.\n\nIn 2008, Downpatrick's sister Lady Marina followed his example and was confirmed in the Roman Catholic church.\n"}
{"id": "1844112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844112", "title": "Sydney Trades Hall", "text": "Sydney Trades Hall\n\nThe Sydney Trades Hall is a heritage-listed trade union building located at 4-10 Goulburn Street in the Sydney central business district, in the City of Sydney local government area of New South Wales, Australia. It was designed by John Smedley, with later additions Spain and Cosh and Minnett and built from 1888 to 1916. It is also known as Trades Hall Building. The building was built and owned by the Trades Hall Association, the original trade union affiliates who built the hall in 1888, and is now owned by Unions NSW. The property was added to the New South Wales State Heritage Register on 2 April 1999.\n\nThe Trades Hall was conceived on 14 December 1882 when representatives of thirteen unions met at \"The Swan with Two Necks Hotel\" in George Street. This was the original meeting place for the Union Movement. It was there that the organisation that led to the building of the Sydney Trades Hall was formed.\n\nA grant of land was made for the Trades Hall site on 13 October 1885, to the trustees: Henry Copeland (Member of the Legislative Assembly of New South Wales, MLA) of Newtown, Jacob Garrard (MLA) of Balmain, William Ferrier of Balmain (a stonemason), John Edward West of Woolloomooloo (a plumber and gasfitter), John Richard Talbot of Sydney (iron moulder), John Atkinson of Balmain (a boilermaker), Thomas Candy of Surry Hills (a draper), and Richard Mooney of Woolloomooloo (a journeyman tailor). The trustees were required to \"hold and use or allow the said land hereby granted and the buildings to be erected thereon to be at all times hereafter maintained and used as and for a Trades Hall and Literary Institute for the use of the Artificers and Operatives of Sydney aforesaid and others under and in accordance with such Regulations as shall from time to time be made by the Governor\".\n\nThe Sydney Trades Hall is linked with the history of the union movement in New South Wales, one of the first formalised union movements in the world. Similarly, the birth of the NSW Branch of the Labor Party can be traced to Trades Hall leaders sending their own representatives to Parliament following the collapse of the Maritime and Shearers Strike early that century.\n\nThe first portion of the building was designed in 1887, by architect John Smedley, one of Australia's first native born architects. Smedley won a design competition for the building, which was intended for meetings held by working men and as a place where lectures could be given and instruction in literature obtained. It also included a library and the banner room. On 28 January 1888 Lord Carrington, as State Governor (also Grand Master Freemason of the United Grand Lodge in NSW), laid the foundation stone of Sydney's Trades Hall. Due to lack of funds, it took several years for the building to be erected. Finally, the opening ceremony was performed on 26 January 1895 by the Minister for Education and the Chairman of the Land Trustees, Mr Jacob Gerrard. In his address he commented, \"The Trades of the colony will now have a home of their own\". According to Mr McIntyre, president of the Builders and Contractors Association, \"every man employed had been a unionist, and had received the full rate of pay ordered by the associated trades.\"\n\nThe subsequent major additions completed in 1900, 1912 and 1916 followed closely the Victorian Italianate Style of the original building. The architects for these additions were Spain, Cosh and Minnett.\n\nIn 1932, New South Wales Premier, Jack Lang had the State's money removed from bank accounts and taken to Trades Hall so that the Federal Government would not be able to seize it. He was subsequently dismissed from office by Governor Philip Game.\n\nA large load-bearing brick and sandstone building of four storeys and basement. An octagonal tower of five storeys at the corner of Goulburn and Dixon Streets is capped by a pitched copper roof surmounted by a sheathed square copper cupola. Although enlarged considerably at three main periods, , 1912 and 1916 the additions closely follow the original Victorian neo classical design consisting of sandstone to the ground floor, window trims grouped three to a bay, string courses, cornice and balustered parapet with face brickwork to the remainder. The original building is part of the four bays to Goulburn Street while the seven bays to Dixon Street are additions.\n\nAs at 30 September 1997, Physical condition is good. Archaeological potential is low.\n\nThe building externally has had little alteration.\n\n\nAs at 10 December 2008, The Sydney Trades Hall is important as one of the first and continuing headquarters of much of the New South Wales Trade Union Movement. It is a fitting reminder of an important part of Australia's history which was to be followed by many western countries based on Australian experience. The birth of the Labour Party may be traced to Trades Hall leaders. The building's design is by one of Australia's first native born architects, John Smedley. Its composed facades and tower contribute to the Haymarket area by retaining a nineteenth century character and provide a dominant landmark. The Trades Hall was held in high esteem by the working community and this was reinforced by Mr Jacob Gerrard's address at the official opening day. The subsequent rapid growth of the trade Union Movement earlier this century saw the original building enlarged considerably to accommodate its needs. Original records of meetings and other historical events in the life of the Trade Union Movement have been collected and are kept in the original library and banner room.\n\nSydney Trades Hall was listed on the New South Wales State Heritage Register on 2 April 1999 having satisfied the following criteria.\n\nThe place is important in demonstrating the course, or pattern, of cultural or natural history in New South Wales.\n\nThe Sydney Trades Hall is important as one of the first and continuing headquarters of much of the New South Wales Trade Union Movement. It is a fitting reminder of an important part of Australia's history which was to be followed by many western countries based on Australian experience. The birth of the Labour Party may be traced to Trades Hall leaders. The building's design is by one of Austrlai's first native born architects, John Smedley.\n\nThe place is important in demonstrating aesthetic characteristics and/or a high degree of creative or technical achievement in New South Wales.\n\nThe Sydney Trades Hall composed facades and tower contribute to the Haymarket area by retaining a nineteenth century character. In particular it provides a dominant landmark with its well crafted and extensive facades which have an almost \"civic like\" presence.\n\nThe place has a strong or special association with a particular community or cultural group in New South Wales for social, cultural or spiritual reasons.\n\nIt was held in high esteem by the working community and this was reinforced by Mr Jacob Gerrard address at the official opening day. The subsequent rapid growth of the trade Union Movement earlier this century saw the original building enlarged considerably to accommodate its needs. The provision of centralised office accommodation and meeting rooms for unions, theTrades Hall has become inseparably linked with the history of the trade Union Movement in NSW and as such is held in high regard by much of the State's workforce.\n\nThe place has potential to yield information that will contribute to an understanding of the cultural or natural history of New South Wales.\n\nOriginal records of meetings and other historical events in the life of the Trade Union Movement have been collected and are kept in the original library and banner room.\n\nThe place possesses uncommon, rare or endangered aspects of the cultural or natural history of New South Wales.\n\nThe Sydney Trades Hall is rare for the role it has played in providing a centralised place of operation for the Trade Union Movement.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1844120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844120", "title": "George King (botanist)", "text": "George King (botanist)\n\nSir George King (12 April 1840 – 12 February 1909) was a British botanist who was appointed superintendent of the Royal Botanic Garden, Calcutta in 1871, and became the first Director of the Botanical Survey of India from 1890. He was recognised for his work in the cultivation of cinchona and for setting up a system for the inexpensive distribution of quinine throughout India through the postal system.\n\nGeorge was born in Peterhead, Aberdeenshire, to Robert King and Cecilia Anderson. Robert King was a bookseller who moved to Aberdeen to partner with his brothers who were also in the book business. One brother Arthur was the founder of the Aberdeen University Press. Another brother George was an antiquarian, founder of a local liberal newspaper and a prominent writer on economic and social matters. King's parents both died from phthisis (tuberculosis), the father in November 1845 aged thirty six and the mother in 1850 at the age of forty. Orphaned at the age of ten, George was taken care of by his namesake uncle. After studying at the Aberdeen Grammar School where he was nicknamed \"Tertius\" to distinguish him from other \"King\" namesakes, a name that stuck. One of his teachers was Patrick Geddes. Although a good student, his health was poor and he was forced to leave in 1854. The family was associated with the Free church but King later favoured the Anglican church. For a while he worked in his uncle's press business but he continued to take a greater interest in natural history, an interest that had developed in his youth. He started putting together a collection in his work place, something the printer uncle despised. At the age of eighteen King decided to pursue a medical education and entered the University of Aberdeen in 1861, where he was influenced by his teachers George Dickie, Alexander Harvey and John Struthers.\n\nIn 1862 King became an assistant to Alexander Dickson. This led to an interest in cryptogamic botany and he was advised by Sir W.J. Hooker to follow the path of Hooker's son (J.D. Hooker) and join the Naval Medical Service. King however was interested in India upon reading Royle and Hooker's works. The Indian Medical Service had suspended recruitment from 1860 but recruitment restarted in April 1865. King obtained an M.B. in 1865 and joined the Indian Medical Service on 2 October, carrying with him an Ipecacuanha plant from Hooker. He left for India in March and reached Calcutta on 11 April 1866.\n\nKing was initially appointed to the General Hospital before transferring to the Medical College Hospital where he was made house surgeon. He fell ill with pneumonia and it was suggested that he transfer to a drier climate. He was posted to Agra on 4 September and was attached to the 41st Bengal Infantry. He moved to Mathura in January 1867. Bouts of illness continued and it was suggested that he should move to central India. He was posted to Guna in February 1867, taking charge of the Central India Horse. The next year he moved to Rajputana with stints at Deoli, Mount Abu and Jodhpur before moving to the Botanic Garden at Saharanpur. At the end of 1869, as his term was ending at Saharanpur, he was invited to join the Forest Department as an Assistant Conservator.\n\nIn his postings in India, he worked during his leisure time on its plants, making a study of the famine plants. He also made an ornithological survey of Guna. The posting in Dehra Dun gave him more time for study. King found that the forests of the Doon were being destroyed with a system of bribery and corruption within the Forest Department. King worked to eliminate the corrupt officials. In January 1871 King moved to the Kumaon Forest Division and prepared a report on the forests of Ranikhet. He also contributed to the botanical sections of the Gazetteers. It was recommend that he be made a permanent Deputy Conservator.\n\nIn 1869, the Superintendent of the Royal Botanic Garden, Calcutta, Thomas Anderson, fell ill (left for Europe and died in 1870) and in 1871, the Secretary of State for India selected King as a successor. King took up the position and was also a Professor of Botany in the Medical College of Bengal. King was faced by the destruction wrought by two cyclones in 1864 and 1867. King was also involved in matters associated with tea and cinchona cultivation. While on an official visit to the Nilgiris in July 1872, he developed symptoms of pulmonary phthisis(tuberculosis). He was treated in Coonoor before moving to Europe. He spent a year in the Riviera and returned to Calcutta to resume duties in November 1873. King restructured the Calcutta Botanical Gardens, raising the level of the ground, creating ponds and laying out footpaths and conservatories. A fireproof herbarium was also constructed based on plans from Kew. King also altered the garden design from one segregated linearly on the basis of taxonomy to one based on regions with combinations of species showing the natural plant associations. He began the journal, the \"Annals of the Royal Botanic Garden, Calcutta\"\n\nIn 1873 King was also associated with the creation of the Calcutta Zoological Garden. He was also associated with setting up a botanical garden at Darjeeling. King had earlier suggested that a post for a quinologist be created and the appointee C.H. Wood found a way to extract alkaloids and this helped produce a popular Cinchona Febrifuge. Wood returned in 1879 but his setup was worked by J.A. Gammie. King replaced the quinologist, studying the methods of the Dutch and went on furlough to England in 1885 to study Wood's continued work back there. Returning to India, King worked on a system for the distribution of quinine through the postal department. The system was fully operational in 1893. Village post offices in Bengal were able to sell small packets for a pice, the smallest coinage.\n\nHe also supervised the work of botanical artists and worked with Sir Joseph Hooker to help him prepare the Flora of British India. A major work was on the Annonaceae of British India. In 1891, he was appointed the first director of the Botanical Survey of India, an institution that linked the botanical officers in the different Presidencies. King also produced a work on the orchids of the eastern Himalayas, \"The Orchids of the Sikkim-Himalayas\" (1898) in the \"Annals\" along with Robert Pantling (1857–1910) who was an assistant in the Mungpoo cinchona plantations working with James Alexander Gammie. King also wrote a series of articles \"\" in the Journal of the Asiatic Society of Bengal.\n\nIn 1898 King was succeeded at the Calcutta Botanical Gardens by Sir David Prain (1857–1944).\n\nKing married Jane Anne Nicol (1845-1898) in 1868. Jane fell ill and died on the way back to England in 1898. The loss was a blow and in the following years King lost an eye due to a ruptured vessel and he increasing fell ill. He reflected on the history of botany in India at the 69th meeting of the British Association for the Advancement of Science in 1899. He died of a seizure at San Remo on 12 February 1909.\n\nHe is buried in the cemetery in San Remo but is memorialised on the grave of his wife in St Machar's Cathedral in Old Aberdeen.\n\nSpecies described by him include the climbing fig \"Ficus pantoniana\" from New Guinea and northern Australia.\n\nKing took an interest in the Asiatic Society of Bengal, was sometime president of the Agricultural and Horticultural Society of India. He also encouraged research among his friends. David Douglas Cunningham and Arthur Barclay helped him on matters of plant pathology. He received a degree of LL.D. in 1884 and was elected to the Royal Society in 1887. As a landscape gardener, he was recognised by the Royal Horticultural Society and awarded the Victoria Medal of Honour in 1901. He was awarded the Linnean Medal in 1901.\n\nFor his work on making quinine and distributing it inexpensively he was made an honorary member of the Pharmaceutical Society and given a ring of honour by Czar Alexander III. On 1 January 1890 he was invested as a Companion of the Order of the Indian Empire. In 1898 he was created K.C.I.E. A memorial was built at San Remo, where he visited every winter from 1898 until his death. There is a memorial plaque to him and his wife in St Machar's Cathedral, Old Aberdeen.\n\n"}
{"id": "1844123", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844123", "title": "Linnean Medal", "text": "Linnean Medal\n\nThe Linnean Medal of the Linnean Society of London was established in 1888, and is awarded annually to alternately a botanist or a zoologist or (as has been common since 1958) to one of each in the same year. The medal was of gold until 1976, and is for the preceding years often referred to as \"the Gold Medal of the Linnean Society\", not to be confused with the official Linnean Gold Medal which is seldom awarded.\n\nThe engraver of the medal was Charles Anderson Ferrier of Dundee, a Fellow of the Linnean Society from 1882. On the obverse of the medal is the head of Linnaeus in profile and the words \"Carolus Linnaeus\", on the reverse are the arms of the society and the legend \"\"Societas Linnaeana optime merenti\"\"; an oval space is reserved for the recipient's name.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1844136", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844136", "title": "Hong Kong-style milk tea", "text": "Hong Kong-style milk tea\n\nHong Kong-style milk tea is a tea drink made from black tea and milk (usually evaporated milk or condensed milk). It is usually part of lunch in Hong Kong tea culture. Although originating from Hong Kong, it is found overseas in restaurants serving Hong Kong cuisine and Hong Kong-style western cuisine. In the show \"Top Eat 100\" aired on 4 February 2012, Hong Kong-style milk tea is ranked number 4 in Hong Kong cuisines. Hong Kongers consume a total of 900 million glasses/cups a year. Hong Kong style milk tea is listed on the representative list of the Intangible Culture Heritage of Hong Kong in 2017 by Intangible Culture Heritage Office which under the Leisure and Culture Department.\n\nHong Kong-style milk tea originates from British colonial rule over Hong Kong. The British practice of afternoon tea, where black tea is served with milk and sugar, grew popular in Hong Kong. Milk tea is similar, except with evaporated or condensed milk instead of ordinary milk. \n\nA dai pai dong-style restaurant called Lan Fong Yuen (蘭芳園) claims both silk-stocking milk tea and Yuenyeung were invented in 1952 by its owner, a Mr. Lam. Its claim for the latter is unverified, but that for the former is on the record in the official minutes of a LegCo council meeting from 2007, lending it significant plausibility. The company now sells prepackaged milk tea internationally, but doesn't make it in Hong Kong, instead doing so 700 miles away in Huzhou, northern Zhejiang province.\n\nIt is called \"milk tea\" () to distinguish it from \"Chinese tea\" (), which is served plain. Outside of Hong Kong it is referred to as \"Hong Kong-style milk tea\". It has another name, \"silk stocking milk tea\" which originates from the appearance of the sackcloth tea leaf filter bag. In the 1950s and 1960s, the main customers of Hong Kong style milk tea were workers and labourers, who thought that the sackcloth looked like pantyhose.\n\nHong Kong-style milk tea is made of a mix of several types of black tea (in the Western sense, often Ceylon tea), possibly pu'er tea, evaporated milk, and sugar, the last of which is added by the customers themselves unless in the case of take-away. The proportion of each tea type is treated as a commercial secret by many vendors A variation uses condensed milk instead of milk and sugar, giving the tea a richer feel.\n\nTo make the tea, water and tea (about 1 to 3 teaspoons of tea a cup, depending how strong the drinker likes) are brought to a boil then simmered for about 3–6 minutes. The tea is usually put in a sackcloth bag before the water is added to the pot to filter it out or if no bag available poured through a strainer. Many people also remove the pot from the heat once it boils for about 3 minutes, then bring the pot to a boil again. This process can be repeated several times, intensifying the caffeine/flavor.\n\nThe key feature of Hong Kong-style milk tea is that a sackcloth bag is used to filter the tea leaves. However any other filter/strainer may be used to filter the tea. Sackcloth bags are not completely necessary but generally preferred. The bag, reputed to make the tea smoother, gradually develops an intense brown colour as a result of prolonged tea drenching. Together with the shape of the filter, it resembles a silk stocking, giving Hong Kong-style milk tea the nickname of \"pantyhose\" or \"silk stocking\" milk tea (). This nickname is used in Hong Kong but less so in mainland China and overseas communities.\n\nThere is some debate over the most authentic way of making milk tea, i.e. the sequence of adding each ingredient. Some have argued that milk should be added before pouring the tea, while others hold the opposite view. Though, to most people, both methods are acceptable.\n\nSome restaurants may choose to use condensed milk, where sweetness is already mixed in and cannot be changed. This creates a creamier than normal milk tea, which is also a bit thicker in viscosity. Other restaurants may use evaporated milk and allow the consumers to mix in the sugar themselves.\nMilk tea is a popular part of many Hong Kongers' daily lives, typically served as part of afternoon tea, but also at breakfast or dinner. It enjoys nearly the same ubiquitous status that coffee holds in the West. Whilst not offered by more traditional Cantonese restaurants or dim sum teahouses, milk tea is standard fare in Hong Kong-style western restaurants and \"cha chaan teng\", as well as Hong Kong's historic \"dai pai dong\", with a price between HKD$12–16 (hot, one or two dollars more for cold). A cup of hot milk tea is usually either served in a ceramic cup (often referred to as a \"coffee cup\" 咖啡杯) or a tall cylindrical plastic glass.\n\nThe first criterion of a good cup of milk tea is its \"smoothness\" (香滑); in other words, how creamy and full-bodied it is.\n\nAnother criterion for tasty milk tea (and also bubble tea) is some white frothy residue inside the lip of the cup after some of it has been drunk. This white froth means that the concentration of butterfat in the evaporated milk used is high enough.\n\nThere is also another way for locals to distinguish high quality by identifying hints of oil on top of the drink after it has been properly brewed. This is the oil remains from the extensive process through the roasting process.\n\nThe taste and texture of 'Hong Kong' style milk tea might be influenced by the milk used. For example, some Hong Kong cafés prefer using a filled milk variant, meaning it is not purely evaporated milk (as with most retail brands) but a combination of skimmed milk and soybean oil.\n\nToday, iced milk tea is usually prepared with ice cubes. However, in the old days, when machines for producing ice cubes were not popular, the iced milk tea was made by filling the hot milk tea into a glass bottle and then cooling it in a fridge. Sometimes the milk tea were filled in Vitasoy or Coca-Cola bottles, and were sold by bottle. Today this type of \"bottle milk tea\" is rare in Hong Kong. Iced milk tea in cans or plastic bottles can be found in many of the convenience stores around Hong Kong such as 7-Eleven and Circle K.\n\nIn the case of milk tea with ice cubes, the melting ice will dilute the content, thus affecting the taste of the drink; therefore, many people prefer the old way of preparing iced milk tea. Today, some \"cha chaan tengs\" serve ice-less iced milk tea, made by pouring hot milk tea into a plastic cup and then cooling it in a fridge. Another way is to place the cup/bottle into a cold water bath, which is called \"ice bath milk tea\" (). Some restaurants simply use ice cubes made of frozen milk tea. All these methods are often used as selling points.\n\"Cha jau\" () is milk tea prepared with condensed milk, instead of evaporated milk and sugar. Its taste is, as can be expected, sweeter than ordinary milk tea. In the old days, \"Cha chow\" was mostly drunk by older people who had \"congestion\" in their throats.\nAnother saying is that drinking Hong Kong Style milk tea with added sugar will induce phlegm in the throat. As a result, a request milk of tea without evaporated milk and sugar, but adding condensed milk instead. Shortening the phrase \"Milk Tea without evaporated milk and sugar\" became \"Cha Jau\", and condensed milk is automatically added. \n\nMilk tea and coffee together is called \"Yuenyeung\" (). Yeung jau is milk tea/coffee with condensed milk.\n\nA variation on \"silk stocking tea\" is \"silk stocking coffee\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1844138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844138", "title": "Spice Up Your Life", "text": "Spice Up Your Life\n\n\"Spice Up Your Life\" is a song by English girl group the Spice Girls from their second studio album, \"Spiceworld\" (1997). The group members co-wrote the song with its producers, Richard Stannard and Matt Rowe, at the same time as the group was filming scenes for their film \"Spice World\".\n\n\"Spice Up Your Life\" is a dance-pop song with Latin influences. The lyrics are inspired by Bollywood films and reflects the group desire to \"write a song for the world\". The music video, directed by Marcus Nispel, features the Spice Girls in a futuristic setting, inspired by the 1982 film \"Blade Runner\", controlling every aspect of society in a dark futuristic cityscape. The group promoted the song heavily, performing it on many television programmes and award shows.\n\nDespite the lukewarm reception from music critics, it was a commercial success. Released as the album's lead single in October 1997, it topped the UK Singles Chart on 19 October 1997 for one week, becoming the group's fifth consecutive chart-topper. This made the Spice Girls the first act to have its first five singles reach number one in the United Kingdom. It performed almost as well internationally, peaking inside the top five on the majority of the charts that it entered. In the United States, the song did not perform as well as their previous releases, peaking at number 18 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100.\n\nIn June 1997, the group began shooting scenes for their film \"Spice World\". Meanwhile, Virgin Records started the first marketing meetings for the promotional campaign for the album \"Spiceworld\", set to be released in November. No song had been written for the album at this point, so the group had to do all the songwriting and recording at the same time as they were shooting the film. Between takes and at the end of each filming day, the group usually went straight into a mobile recording studio set up in a Winnebago, which followed them between film sets. The schedule was physically arduous with logistical difficulties, as Melanie Brown commented on in her autobiography: \"doing the two full-time jobs at the same time took its toll and within a couple on weeks, exhaustion set in.\"\n\nA session with the production and songwriting duo Richard Stannard and Matt Rowe was booked to record the group's next single. During the recording of the \"Spiceworld\" tracks, the group was so busy with the filming schedule that the quality of their contributions became more erratic and piecemeal. About the writing process during the session Rowe recalls:\nI remember when they came to record 'Spice Up Your Life'. It was in the middle of the chaos. It had been booked in, that they were coming in to record their next single, and write it, with us. It was at Whitfield Street Studios and there was going to be an MTV crew there filming them as they did this, which there was. Well, how on earth can you possibly do this? You can't write and record a song in half-an-hour with a film crew watching.\nThe session was interrupted constantly, with people entering the building, phoning them, or throwing things through the window. Eventually, when the filming crew left the room, the group managed to finish the song. Stannards commented about the inspiration behind it to \"Music Week\": \"We were talking about Bollywood films, the colours and how the Spice Girls could present themselves. It was a matter of how do we get everything in to one song?\" All the writing and the vocal recording was completed in one afternoon, and instead of taking turns, the five members went inside the vocal booths and recorded the chorus together. Brown commented that for this reason the final mix sounds \"spontaneous and full of energy\".\n\n\"Spice Up Your Life\" was already finished and ready to be released, but nothing was recorded for the B-side. Every other song available had been used in the \"Spice\" album, and the group needed a new track for their next single. A session with Paul Wilson and Andy Watkins—the songwriters and production duo known as Absolute—was booked. Because of the limited time and the scarce creative inspiration at that point, Virgin told the duo to make anything they liked.\n\nThe duo created \"Spice Invaders\" by placing four microphones and telling the group to just talk about anything they wanted, the conversation was recorded and as Wilson described it, a \"hideous bubblegum\" backing track was added behind the voices. After the group left, Watkins and the mix engineer finished the track during the night.\n\n\"Spice Up Your Life\" is an uptempo dance-pop song, with influences of Latin rhythms such as salsa and samba. It is written in the key of F minor, with a time signature set on common time (4/4), and moves at a fast tempo of 126 beats per minute.\n\nThe song is constructed in a verse-pre-chorus-chorus form, with a bridge before the third and fourth chorus, and uses a simple chord progression of Fm–C. It opens with an introduction, which consists of the repeated use of the word \"la\". The first verse follows, the lyrics are an international rally cry, targeted to a global market, as Melanie Chisholm described it: \"We always wanted to do a carnival tune and write a song for the world.\" After the first verse, the group sings the pre-chorus and the chorus. The same pattern occurs, leading to the second chorus. A spoken bridge, in which the girls mention different dance styles—flamenco, lambada, hip-hop, moonwalk, foxtrot, polka, salsa and haka—precedes the third chorus. The group closes the song repeating the chorus for a fourth time.\n\n\"Spice Up Your Life\" was released in the United Kingdom on 13 October 1997, in two single versions. The first one, released in cassette and maxi single format, included the Mark Stent radio mix, the Morales radio mix, an instrumental version of the song, and the B-side \"Spice Invaders\". The second version, released on digipak format, contained three tracks: the Stent radio mix, the David Morales carnival club mix, and the Murk Cuba Libre mix. In the United States, Virgin Records sent the song to radios on 1 October 1997, and the single to record stores on 21 October 1997. The American version, released in cassette and maxi single format, featured the same track listing as the first UK version.\n\n\"Spice Up Your Life\" received mixed reviews from music critics, with many of them criticising the lyrics and the Latin-inspired music. David Browne of \"Entertainment Weekly\" described it as a \"ha-cha-cha slice of tropical-boat-cruise frivolity\". In a review of \"Spiceworld\", \"The Miami Herald\" said that \"the busy Latin-styled first single is a condescending dud\". George Varga of \"The San Diego Union-Tribune\" believed that the song \"does for Latin music what Hanson has done for death metal\", while Andy Gill of \"The Independent\" called it a \"pseudo-salsa [...] pop pastiche\". However, Scott Schinder of \"Newsday\" was pleased with the track, referring to it as a \"silly but irresistible uplift\". \"South Florida Sun-Sentinel's\" Sean Picolli described it as a \"salsa-lite hootenanny\". \"Rolling Stone\" magazine's David Wild called it \"a global call to arms and legs with a distinct carnivallike flavor and a message of Up With Spice People positivity\". Stephen Thomas Erlewine from AllMusic, commented that the song added Latin rhythms that \"consolidates and expands the group's style\".\nThe song drew comparisons to the work of other artists. The \"Contra Costa Times\" said that the song have shades of Gloria Estefan. The \"Daily Mirror\" went even further, commenting that it was a rehash of Estefan's '80s music, and called it a \"throwaway Latinstyle song\". Melissa Ruggieri of the \"Richmond Times-Dispatch\" believed that the song was a copy of Miami Sound Machine's \"Conga\", and added that it had a \"zingy mariachi-flavored rhythm and infectious chorus chant\", while Ann Powers of \"The New York Times\" said that it \"skates over Latin hip hop from Lisa Lisa to the Lambada.\" \"The Dallas Morning News\" noted influences of ABBA, Bananarama and Bow Wow Wow in the song, and added that it \"doesn't quite reach the pop heights of 'Wannabe'\".\n\nSome of the reviewers criticised the lyrics. Dele Fadele of \"NME\" called it \"the poppermost pop single ever invented\", adding that it contained \"a brilliant line in nonsense lyrics. As such it is the Spice Girls' message of peace to the world\". The \"Reading Eagle\" reviewer, David Bauder, said that it \"sounds like it was written by a focus group who told them to add a Latin flavor\". The \"Telegram & Gazette\" commented that its lyrics were \"concerned more with shaking hips than moving social consciousness\". Larry Flick of \"Billboard\" magazine was mixed on the track. Although he described it as \"insanely catchy and devilishly fun\", he also felt that it was not a real song, saying that it is \"just a festive cha-cha groove and a lyrical command to add some 'spice' to your life by way of countless dance moves. A runaway hit.\" \"The Hartford Courant\" music critic Roger Catlin believed that the song \"recognizes and embraces the group's worldwide audience with savvy Latin rhythms and a self-promoting lyric of dizzy Esperanto\". \"Chicago Sun-Times\" critic Jim DeRogatis was unimpressed with the lyrics, yet when comparing it to Aqua's \"Barbie Girl\", he found that its \"unifying sentiment is more admirable\".\n\n\"Billboard\" placed the song at number 62 on their list of 100 Greatest Girl Group Songs of All Time.\n\n\"Spice Up Your Life\" was originally going to be released in the United Kingdom on 6 October 1997, but the release date was delayed in an attempt to displace Elton John's \"Candle in the Wind 1997\"—a tribute to Princess Diana, who had died two months before—from the top position. The single was released the next week, debuting atop the UK Singles Chart on 19 October 1997 with 321,000 copies sold in its first week, making the Spice Girls the first group to reach number one with their first five singles, and the first to debut at the top of the chart four times in a row. The single was certified platinum by the British Phonographic Industry (BPI) on 17 October 1997. As of October 2017, it had sold 887,000 copies and had been streamed 4.5 million times in the UK.\n\n\"Spice Up Your Life\" was commercially successful also in the rest of Europe. On 1 November 1997 it peaked at number three on the Eurochart Hot 100 Singles, and performed similarly across the continent, peaking inside the top five in Belgium (both the Flemish and French charts), Denmark, Finland, France, Ireland, Italy, the Netherlands, Norway, Spain, Sweden, and Switzerland; and inside the top 15 in Austria and Germany. The song was released in Oceania on 6 October 1997. In New Zealand, it debuted at number two, where it stayed for four consecutive weeks, blocked by \"Candle in the Wind 1997\". In Australia, it debuted at number 17, peaking two weeks later at number eight. It spent 20 weeks on the chart, and was certified platinum by the Australian Recording Industry Association (ARIA).\n\n\"Spice Up Your Life\" had limited success in North America. In the US, the single debuted on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 at number 32 on 8 November 1997; at the time it was the group's lowest debut in the country. It peaked at number 18 in its fourth week, becoming their fourth consecutive top-20 entry on the chart. Despite peaking at number 72 on the Hot 100 Airplay chart, the CD single sold well, peaking at number 11 on the Hot 100 Singles Sales chart. It received a gold certification by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) on 13 January 1998. The song reached number four on the Hot Dance Club Play chart, but only had moderate success on other formats, reaching number 22 on the Hot Dance Singles Sales chart, number 37 on the Mainstream Top 40 chart, and number 27 on the Rhythmic Top 40 chart. \"Spice Up Your Life\" fared better on the Canadian Singles Chart, where it peaked at number two. New remixes by Ralphi Rosario were produced in 2007 in conjunction with the release of the group's \"Greatest Hits\" album, reaching number 17 on the Hot Dance Club Play chart in February 2008.\n\nThe music video for \"Spice Up Your Life\" was directed on 6 September 1997 by Marcus Nispel in a two-day shoot located in New York City. The video features the group in a futuristic setting, inspired by the 1982 film \"Blade Runner\", controlling every aspect of society in a dark futuristic post apocalyptic cityscape. Nispel came up with the concept based on a sketch that was faxed to him signed \"Ginger Spice\". He recalls: \"I looked at what Disney did to Times Square in NYC and tried to imagine how the Spice Girls would transform it, as their career seemed to have no limits—at the time.\" The group was not consulted about the concept. According to Brown's autobiography, they wanted a carnival party theme, but were too tired to fight about it with the label, and ended up with a concept linked to the theme of world domination. Brown commented: \"It wasn't right. I don't think any of us liked it much, even though we enjoyed making it. I still can't understand what's going on in it half the time.\" The video exclusively premiered on MTV in September 1997.\n\nThe video featured the group as globalising masters, in a spaceship going through a dark city, looking at themselves on various billboards, while shoots of rooms, bars and prison with televisions plays the videos for \"Say You'll Be There\" and \"Wannabe\", live footage of the girls inside the spaceship is also broadcast. The group then zoom aimlessly around the city, between buildings, on flying surfboards. The scenes are interspersed with shoots of the girls doing different things, such as Brown at a turntable with bright flashing lights and a large rotating fan, Adams (Beckham) posing on top of a platform while photographers takes pictures of her, Bunton in a room surrounded with neon-blue balloons, Chisholm winning a boxing match and Halliwell giving a speech at a press conference to a crowd of journalists. The video won the award for Best Video at the 1998 Edison Music Awards, and was nominated for Best Video at the 1998 Brit Awards. It was also nominated for Best Special Effects at the 1997 Music Video Production Association (MVPA) awards show.\n\n\"Spice Up Your Life\" had its premiere in the UK on 27 September 1997, on the BBC's National Lottery programme, which attracted more than nine million viewers. The song was subsequently performed many times on television, in both Europe and the US, including \"An Audience with...\", \"Top of the Pops\", \"All That\", \"The Jay Leno Show\", the \"Late Show with David Letterman\", and \"The Oprah Winfrey Show\". \"Spice Up Your Life\" was also performed in many award ceremonies such as the 1997 Smash Hits! Awards, the 1997 MTV Europe Music Awards, the 1997 Billboard Music Awards, the 1997 Premios Ondas, the 1997 Channel V Music Awards, and the 2000 Brit Awards. In October 1997, the group performed \"Spice Up Your Life\" as the eleventh song of their first live concert at the Abdi İpekçi Arena in Istanbul, Turkey. The performance was broadcast on Showtime in a pay-per-view concert special titled \"Spice Girls in Concert: Wild!\", and was later included in the VHS and DVD release \"Girl Power! Live in Istanbul\". The song was also used during the climax of their 1997 film, \"Spice World\". In the scene, the group performs \"Spice Up Your Life\" at London's Royal Albert Hall, surrounded by the media and thousands of fans, while the rest of the supporting cast can be seen dancing and singing during the performance.\nThe Spice Girls have performed the song on four of their tours: the Spiceworld Tour, the Christmas in Spiceworld Tour, The Return of the Spice Girls Tour and the Spice World – 2019 Tour. The performance at the Spiceworld Tour's final concert was included on the video album \"Live at Wembley Stadium\", filmed in London on 20 September 1998. After Halliwell left the group, Melanie C took over her solo line in the song in every live performance until their reunion. The group performed \"Spice Up Your Life\" as the opening song of The Return of the Spice Girls Tour (2007––2008). The show started with the screens above the stage displaying an introductory film, which featured five little girls—Spice Girls' look-alikes—opening a magic box, dancing in their bedroom and talking about their wish to be world-famous. Old headlines about the Spice Girls flash up—the last one announcing the end of the group. Then the group appeared standing motionless in five ascending platforms, dressed in tight bronze and copper coloured outfits made by Italian fashion designer Roberto Cavalli.\n\nDuring the encore, the group closed the show performing a remix version of the song, each dressed in a glittery outfit of a different bright colour. At the end, a cannon exploded showering the stage with pieces of gold, white and black paper strips, while flags from different countries flashed across the backdrop screens. As they left the stage, the words \"Mission accomplished\" appeared on the screens. The Spice Girls performed the song on 12 August 2012 at the 2012 Summer Olympics closing ceremony in London as part of a medley with the group's debut single, \"Wannabe\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\nCredits adapted from the liner notes of \"Spiceworld\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1844139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844139", "title": "Big Red (gum)", "text": "Big Red (gum)\n\nBig Red is a cinnamon flavored chewing gum introduced by the William Wrigley Jr. Company in 1975. Big Red was available in the United Kingdom and Ireland in the mid to end of the 1990s, but is no longer available there. It is a popular souvenir for visitors to the United States from Ireland, or the United Kingdom. \n\nBig Red was also released in the early to the middle of the 1980s in Australia, but was discontinued in the end of the 1980s. \n\nIt was re released in 2004, and again at the end of 2007. It is also available in Mexico, Germany, Luxembourg, Belgium, Latvia, Norway, Poland, Slovenia, New Zealand, and parts of Sweden; the gum sold in Germany, Norway and Poland is not red but white. It is meant to be hot in flavor. Despite it not being a sugarless gum, in 2003 in the United States, Wrigley's replaced some of the sugar with aspartame and Ace K, both artificial sweeteners.\n\nLike its sister product, Juicy Fruit, Big Red had its own commercial jingle, which was used from 1977 to 1998. The song was composed by Peter Cofield from Sunday Productions in New York City, and sung by Ryan Devereaux. Many of the commercials depicted couples passionately kissing in a romantic setting for an unusually long time, always including one kisser who then must chase his departing ride. \n\nThis commercial formula would later be parodied by a number of television shows, including \"Saturday Night Live\". In August 2008, Wrigley teamed with popular singer songwriter Ne-Yo to update the classic jingle. In February 2010, Verizon Wireless repurposed the classic jingle for a television campaign featuring the company's industry nickname, \"Big Red\" (a reference to the colour of the company's logo).\n\n"}
{"id": "1844153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844153", "title": "Richard Hartshorne", "text": "Richard Hartshorne\n\nRichard Hartshorne (December 12, 1899 – November 5, 1992) was a prominent American geographer, and professor at the University of Wisconsin-Madison, who specialized in economic and political geography and the philosophy of geography. He is known in particular for his methodological work \"The Nature of Geography\", published in 1939.\n\nBorn in Kittanning, Pennsylvania, Hartshorne completed his undergraduate studies at Princeton University in 1920, and his doctorate at the University of Chicago in 1924. His dissertation was titled The Lake traffic of Chicago.\n\nHartshorne taught at the University of Minnesota from 1924 to 1940, and at the University of Wisconsin-Madison from 1945 to 1970. In the war-time interruption from 1941 to 1945 he established and ran the Geography Division in the branch of Research and Analysis of the Office of Strategic Services (OSS).\n\nHartshorne was president of the Association of American Geographers in 1949. The association gave him its top award in 1960. He was also awarded a Doctor of Laws (\"honoris causa\") from Clark University, April 17, 1971, and the Victoria medal from the Royal Geographical Society in 1984.\n\nHe died of cancer at his home in Madison, Wisconsin. Among his brothers was the prominent American philosopher Charles Hartshorne.\n\nHartshorne's 1939 book \"The Nature of Geography: A Critical Survey of Current Thought in the Light of the Past\", reflected his concern that geographers, as scientists and scholars, should familiarize themselves with, and take account of, past work in their field. The book itself became a standard in the field and remained in print for decades; the seventh edition was published in 2000.\n\nIn the 1950s Hartshorne was part of a key geographical debate over the nature of the subject. Fred K. Schaefer called for the adoption of the 'scientific method' and study of spatial laws and criticised the 'old method' promoted by Hartshorne as the 'Hartshornian orthodoxy'.\n\nHis 1970 book \"The Academic Citizen: Selected Statements by Richard Hartshorne\" with introduction and notes by Mark Hoyt Ingraham, contains various statements on academic issues, authored (in some cases, co-authored) by Hartshorne, from the late 1940s through the 1960s, his pre-emeritus years at the University of Wisconsin.\n\nBooks, a selection:\n\nArticles, a selection\n\n"}
{"id": "1844155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844155", "title": "Creative class", "text": "Creative class\n\nThe creative class is a posited socioeconomic class identified by American economist and social scientist Richard Florida, a professor and head of the Martin Prosperity Institute at the Rotman School of Management at the University of Toronto. According to Florida, the creative class are a key driving force for economic development of post-industrial cities in the United States.\n\nFlorida describes the creative class as comprising 40 million workers (about 30 percent of the U.S. workforce). He breaks the class into two broad sections, derived from Standard Occupational Classification System codes:\n\nIn addition to these two main groups of creative people, the usually much smaller group of Bohemians is also included in the creative class.\n\nIn his 2002 study, Florida concluded that the creative class would be the leading force of growth in the economy expected to grow by over 10 million jobs in the next decade, which would in 2012 equal almost 40% of the population.\n\nThe social theories advanced by Florida have sparked much debate and discussion. Florida's work proposes that a new or emergent class—or demographic segment made up of knowledge workers, intellectuals and various types of artists—is an ascendant economic force, representing either a major shift away from traditional agriculture- or industry-based economies or a general restructuring into more complex economic hierarchies.\n\nThe theses developed by Florida in various publications were drawn from, among other sources, U.S. Census Bureau demographic data, focusing first on economic trends and shifts apparent in major U.S. cities, with later work expanding the focus internationally.\n\nA number of specific cities and regions (including California's Silicon Valley, Washington, DC, Baltimore, Boston's Route 128, The Triangle in North Carolina, Austin, Seattle, Bangalore, Dublin and Sweden) have come to be identified with these economic trends. In Florida's publications, the same places are also associated with large Creative Class populations.\n\nFlorida argues that the creative class is socially relevant because of its members' ability to spur regional economic growth through innovation (2002).\n\nWalter Grünzweig, professor for American Studies at Technical University of Dortmund, has shown that the origin of the term “creative class” does not lie with Florida, but instead goes back to a passage in Ralph Waldo Emerson's essay \"Power\" in his collection \"The Conduct of Life\" (1860).\n\nFlorida says that the creative class is a class of workers whose job is to create meaningful new forms (2002). It is composed of scientists and engineers, university professors, poets and architects, and also includes \"people in design, education, arts, music and entertainment, whose economic function is to create new ideas, new technology and/or creative content\" (Florida, 2002, p. 8). The designs of this group are seen as broadly transferable and useful. Another sector of the Creative Class includes positions that are knowledge intensive; these usually require a high degree of formal education (Florida, 2002). Examples of workers in this sector are health professionals and business managers, who are considered part of the sub-group called Creative Professionals. Their primary job is to think and create new approaches to problems. Creativity is becoming more valued in today's global society. Employers see creativity as a channel for self-expression and job satisfaction in their employees. About 38.3 million Americans and 30 percent of the American workforce identify themselves with the creative class. This number has increased by more than 10 percent in the past 20 years.\n\nThe creative class is also known for its departure from traditional workplace attire and behavior. Members of the creative class may set their own hours and dress codes in the workplace, often reverting to more relaxed, casual attire instead of business suits and ties. Creative class members may work for themselves and set their own hours, no longer sticking to the 9–5 standard. Independence is also highly regarded among the creative class and expected in the workplace (Florida, 2002).\n\nThe Creative Class is not a class of workers among many, but a group believed to bring economic growth to countries that can attract its members. The economic benefits conferred by the Creative Class include outcomes in new ideas, high-tech industry and regional growth. Even though the Creative Class has been around for centuries, the U.S. was the first large country to have a Creative Class dealing with information technology, in the 1960s and 1970s. In the 1960s less than five percent of the U.S. population was part of the Creative Class, a number that has risen to 26 percent. Seeing that having a strong Creative Class is vital in today's global economy, Europe is now almost equal with America's numbers for this group. Inter-city competition to attract members of the Creative Class has developed.\n\nFollowing an empirical study across 90 nations, Rindermann et al. (2009) argued that high-ability classes (or smart classes) are responsible for economic growth, stable democratic development, and positively valued political aspects (government effectiveness, rule of law, and liberty).\n\nFlorida's use of census and economic data, presented in works such as \"The Rise of the Creative Class\" (2002), \"Cities and the Creative Class\" (2004), and \"The Flight of the Creative Class\" (2007), as well as \"Bobos in Paradise\" by David Brooks (whose \"bobos\" roughly correspond to Florida's creative class), and NEO Power by Ross Honeywill, has shown that cities which attract and retain creative residents prosper, while those that do not stagnate. This research has gained traction in the business community, as well as among politicians and urban planners. Florida and other Creative Class theorists have been invited to meetings of the National Conference of Mayors and numerous economic development committees, such the Denver mayor's Task Force on Creative Spaces and Michigan governor Jennifer Granholm's Cool Cities Initiative.\n\nIn \"Cities and the Creative Class\", Florida devotes several chapters to discussion of the three main prerequisites of creative cities (though there are many additional qualities which distinguish creative magnets). For a city to attract the Creative Class, he argues, it must possess \"the three 'T's\": Talent (a highly talented/educated/skilled population), Tolerance (a diverse community, which has a 'live and let live' ethos), and Technology (the technological infrastructure necessary to fuel an entrepreneurial culture). In \"Rise of the Creative Class\", Florida argues that members of the Creative Class value meritocracy, diversity and individuality, and look for these characteristics when they relocate (2002).\n\nAs Florida demonstrates in his books, Buffalo, New Orleans and Louisville are examples of cities which have tried to attract the Creative Class but, in comparison to cities which better exemplify the \"three 'T's\", have failed. Creative Class workers have sought out cities that better accommodate their cultural, creative, and technological needs, such as Chapel Hill, San Francisco, Washington, D.C., Austin, Seattle, Toronto, Ontario and Portland, Oregon. Florida also notes that Lexington and Milwaukee, Wisconsin have the ingredients to be a \"leading city in a new economy\".\n\nThe \"Creativity Index\" is another tool that Florida uses to describe how members of the Creative Class are attracted to a city. The Creativity Index includes four elements: \"the Creative Class share of the workforce; innovation, measured as patents per capita; high tech industry, using the Milken Institute's widely accepted Tech Pole Index…; and diversity, measured by the Gay Index, a reasonable proxy for an area's openness\" (2002, pp. 244–5). Using this index, Florida rates and ranks cities in terms of innovative high-tech centers, with San Francisco being the highest ranked (2002).\n\nFlorida and others have found a strong correlation between those cities and states that provide a more tolerant atmosphere toward culturally unconventional people, such as gays, artists, and musicians (exemplified by Florida's \"Gay Index\" and \"Bohemian Index\" developed in \"The Rise of the Creative Class\"), and the numbers of Creative Class workers that live and move there (2002).\n\nResearch involving the preferences and values of this new socioeconomic class has shown that where people choose to live can no longer be predicted according to conventional industrial theories (such as \"people will go to where the jobs/factories are\"). Creative workers are no longer bound by physical products, rather working with intellectual products. Their migration to metropolitan urban areas where creative work is available is more due to the attraction of leisure life and community rather than actual work. Although the Creative Class works towards the globalization of progressive and innovative ideas and products, they can also be considered to value local community and local autonomy. Sociologists and urban theorists have noted a gradual and broad shift of values over the past decade. Creative workers are looking for cultural, social, and technological climates in which they feel they can best \"be themselves\".\n\n\"The main assumption underlying this approach is that creative workers seek creative outlets in all aspects of their lives and therefore migrate to cities that actively support their preferred lifestyles\" (Donegan et al., 2008, p. 181).\n\nEach year Florida and the Martin Prosperity Institute release the Global Creativity Index, an international study of nations, ranking countries on the 3Ts of economic development - talent, technology, and tolerance. \"The GCI is a broad-based measure for advanced economic growth and sustainable prosperity based on the 3Ts of economic development - talent, technology, and tolerance. It rates and ranks 139 nations worldwide on each of these dimensions and on our overall measure of creativity and prosperity\" (Florida et al., 2015). The GCI takes into account the diversity of geographical locations noting their openness as the means for progressive ideas to prosper. \"Tolerance and openness to diversity is part and parcel of the broad cultural shift toward post-materialist values... Tolerance—or, broadly speaking openness to diversity—provides an additional source of economic advantage that works alongside technology and talent\" (Florida, 2012, p. 233). Diversity allows these locations to attract creative individuals and therefore stimulate economic growth. The findings from the 2015 GCI measured 139 countries on their creativity and prosperity. Ranked number one on the 2015 GCI is Australia.\n\nShare of Gross National Product spent on Research and Development is constantly raising at world level. Creative activities are growing at a fast pace in most advanced countries. 60% of the products that will be sold in 2030 do not yet exist. Repetitive works are being robotized. The whole world is becoming a \"Creational Society\".\n\nThe diverse and individualistic lifestyles enjoyed by the Creative Class involve active participation in a variety of experiential activities. Florida (2002) uses the term \"Street Level Culture\" to define this kind of stimulation. Street Level Culture may include a \"teeming blend of cafes, sidewalk musicians, and small galleries and bistros, where it is hard to draw the line between participant and observer, or between creativity and its creators\" (p. 166). Members of the Creative Class enjoy a wide variety of activities (e.g., traveling, antique shopping, bike riding, and running) that highlight the collective interest in being participants and not spectators (Florida, 2002).\n\nNumerous studies have found fault with the logic or empirical claims of Florida's Creative Class theory. This body of critical empirical research demonstrates how the Creative Class thesis, and the associated creative city policy prescriptions, in fact exacerbate social and economic inequalities in cities in North America, Europe, Australia, and Asia. Jamie Peck argues that the Creative Class theory offers no causal mechanism and suffers from circular logic. John Montgomery writes that \"what Florida has devised is a set of indices which simply mirror more fundamental truths about creative milieux or dynamic cities.\" Montgomery also disagrees with the cities that Florida designates as most creative, writing that London, not Manchester and Leicester, should be one of the top in the U.K. A critique of Florida's research and theoretical framework has been developed by Matteo Pasquinelli (2006) in the context of Italian Operaismo.\n\nScholars in the disciplines of economics, geography, sociology, and related social sciences have challenged Florida's conception of the \"creative class\", particularly for the perceived fuzziness of the concept and the lack of analytical precision. A number of studies have found problems with Florida's statistical indices. Hoyman and Faricy, using Florida's own indices, find no statistical evidence that cities with higher proportions of Creative Class workers correlated with any type of economic growth from 1990–2004. By using metropolitan areas as the unit of analysis, the high degree of socio-spatial variation across the metropolitan region is ignored. Studies and popular accounts have questioned whether the creative class is more likely to live in the homogenous, low-density suburban periphery.\n\nSocial scientists have also identified problems with the occupational composition of the creative class. Economic geographer Stefan Kratke challenges the inclusion of financial and real estate professionals within the creative class on two accounts: 1) these individuals played a decisive role as the \"dealer class\" in the 2007 financial crises, and therefore cannot be considered a basis for sustainable urban and regional economic growth; and 2) the financial and real estate industries (especially in headquarter cities) are economically significant regional/urban players only because they are largely \"reliant on inflows of wealth created by productive activities in other regions.\" Moreover, Kratke argues that the \"political class\" is also ill-suited to be included within creative class, as they are, in many cases, implicated in neoliberal financial deregulation and the rise in highly unstable urban and regional growth regimes evident through real estate bubbles across the United States and in other countries. In \"Urban Development and the Politics of the Creative Class\", Ann Markusen argues that workers qualified as being in the Creative Class have no concept of group identity, nor are they in occupations that are inherently creative. Markusen also notes that the definition of the Creative Class is based largely on educational attainment, suggesting that Florida's indices become insignificant after controlling for education. Markusen argues that Florida \"does not seem to understand the nature of the occupational statistics he uses\" and calls for the major occupational groups to be disaggregated. She questions the inclusion of particular occupations within these broad categories such as claim adjusters, funeral directors, tax collectors, yet argues that \"[t]hese occupations may indeed be creative, but so too are airplane pilots, ship engineers, millwrights, and tailors – all of whom are uncreative in Florida's tally.\" Moreover, it is questioned whether human creativity can be conflated with education since \"[p]eople at all levels of education exercise considerable inventiveness.\"\n\nResearch shows that economic growth is experienced when the significance of scientifically/technologically and artistically creative workers is taken into account, but this macro-level conclusion can be drawn without Florida's creative class theory, which provides more of an \"affirmation of contemporary class relations.\" Other scholars have criticized the very basis for Florida's definition of \"creativity\" which many argue is conceived of narrowly and is only valued for the potential for financial and economic growth. Studies have too questioned Florida's argument that jobs and economic growth follow the creative class, and the migration patterns of the creative class have been challenged. Rather than validating Florida's causal logic that attracting the creative class will lead to economic growth, empirical research shows that successful regions pull and maintain human capital.\n\nThe creative class thesis—and Richard Florida himself—have been criticized for what appears to be a change in Florida's prognosis for America's ailing Rust Belt cities. Florida's message was so quickly and enthusiastically adopted by cities because he argued that any city had the potential to become a vibrant, creative city with the right infrastructure investments, policies, and consulting advice. A 2009 article, \"The Ruse of the Creative Class\", questions Florida's costly speaking engagements in struggling industrial cities in which he offered optimistic prognoses—and his more recent pronouncements that many American cities may never be saved in the wake of the Great Recession. The creative class thesis has also drawn criticisms for relying on inner city property development, gentrification, and urban labor markets reliant on low-wage service workers, particularly in the hospitality industry. Florida has called for service workers' wages to rise.\n\nCreative Class Struggle, a Toronto-based collective, has brought these criticisms outside academic circles, challenging Florida's Creative Class theories as well as their widespread adoption into urban policy. The group manages an online clearinghouse for information about creative city strategies and policies, publishes a newsletter and other materials, and works to engage the media and public in critical discussion. In June 2009, Creative Class Struggle and art magazine \"Fuse\" organized a public forum in Toronto to debate these issues.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1844156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844156", "title": "Buff, Smith and Hensman", "text": "Buff, Smith and Hensman\n\nBuff, Straub and Hensman is an architectural firm. The office has won more than 30 awards for house designs from the American Institute of Architects. The firm was known as Buff and Hensman when Cal Straub moved to Arizona and later Buff, Smith and Hensman when Dennis Smith bought the practice after Don Hensman's retirement.\n\nThe partnership, originally Buff, Straub, and Hensman, consisted of Conrad Buff III, Calvin Straub, and Donald (Don) Hensman, all of whom were American Institute of Architects (AIA) licensed architects.\n\nConrad Buff III FAIA (August 5, 1926 - 1989) was born in Eagle Rock, Los Angeles, California, to the creators of children's books Mary and Conrad Buff. His father Conrad Buff II was also a painter of the American southwest. Family acquaintances included Richard Neutra, Rudolph Schindler and opera singer Lawrence Tibbett; redesigning the Buff II garage was one of Neutra's first architectural commissions. Buff III attended local Eagle Rocks school. He graduated from U.S.C. School of Architecture in 1952. For ten years Buff was a faculty member of USC contributing design curriculum. Conrad served in the Navy in World War II at a base in Maryland, which was where he met his wife Elizabeth (Libby), a skipper's yeoman in the WAVES; film editor Conrad Buff IV is their son. After the War, Conrad decided to enroll at USC School of Architecture, where he met Donald Hensman, who had also returned from the War.\n\nDonald C. Hensman FAIA (1924, Omaha, Nebraska - 2002) grew up in Hollywood, California. He served in the navy during World War II, as a parachute rigger in the South Pacific, and entered the USC architecture program by way of the GI Bill. It was at USC that Hensman met Conrad Buff. But prior to their collaboration with Straub, Buff and Hensman were designers of tract homes for a number of regional developers. He returned to teach architecture at his alma mater, USC from 1952 to 1963. He was eventually made assistant professor within USC's design curriculum and was chairman of the joint USC/American Institute of Architects education committee. Hensman remained active in the Pasadena architectural community until his death in 2002.\n\nCalvin C. Straub FAIA (1920–1998) was born in Macon, Georgia. He studied at Texas A&M University and Pasadena City College before receiving his degree in architecture at the University of Southern California in 1945. After serving in the Navy, Straub lectured at USC from 1946 to 1961. Moving to Scottsdale, AZ in 1961 and joining the faculty at the College of Architecture at Arizona State University. Few architects and educators have had such a pervasive influence on architecture as Calvin C Straub.. He created an important body of work as the senior partner of Buff Straub and Hensmen, both previous students at USC. His work was widely published in Sunset Magazine and considered highly influential in shaping the vision iconography of the post-World War II contemporary southern Californian style. His and the firms work bridged the gap between the influences of early arts and crafts architects and the early California modernists, creating a uniquely regional architectural form. For this work and his educational contributions he was described in \"Toward a simpler way of Life\" as \"the father of California post and beam architecture\". His desert residence continued and extended the legacy of \"design with climate\" that he had begun decades again in southern California and preceded the now popular \"green movement\" in architecture by some 30 years. Until 1988 he held a professorship of design at Arizona State University in Tempe where his \"world architecture\" class attended by more than 15,000 general university students who were influenced by his contagious, jovial and animated love affair with the art of environmental design. He worked for the firm of A.B. Gallion before entering into a partnership with Conrad Buff and Donald Hensman (1956–61), and was a member of Schoneburger, Straub, Florence & Associates (1972–75). Straub also ran his own private practice in Arizona. He Received over 30 Honors and AIA awards. Apart from his work as an architect and lecturer, he also published \"Design Process and Communications\" (1978) and \"The Man-Made Environment: An Introduction to World Architecture and Design\" (1983). He retired in 1988 and died in 1998. His archives, drawings, project records, awards and project photographs many by famed Architectural photographer Julius Shulman are archived at the Arizona State University School of architecture library and archive.\n\nIn 1948, while both attending the University of Southern California (USC) School of Architecture and working together designing tract and model homes (but prior to beginning their practice), Buff and Hensman were asked by the Dean of the School of Architecture to take over the teaching duties left by the death of a senior professor. This meant that both Buff and Hensman were at the same time working professionals, students and teachers, all before being licensed or graduating. Both continued to teach and be associated with USC for many years.\n\nIn 1961 Calvin Straub left the practice to teach architecture at Arizona State University. Buff and Hensman continued their partnership as Buff, Hensman and Associates. Conrad Buff died in 1989 and Dennis Smith joined the partnership the same year to form Buff, Smith and Hensman, from which Hensman retired in 1998. Smith carries on in the practice, located in Pasadena.\n\nThe Buff, Straub, and Hensman firm's masterwork was Case Study House #20, the Saul Bass House (Altadena, 1958). It was built of factory-produced stressed skin panels and plywood vaults. Despite thorough engineering calculations, the architects were not awarded a building permit until a sample plywood vault had been temporarily erected and loaded with weights. Its open plan introduced the concept of zoning: the owner's zone with studio office, garden, master bedroom & bath; a formal zone with living and dining rooms and entry atrium; a family zone with kitchen, family room, dining terrace, two additional bedrooms and swimming pool.\n\nArchitect Calvin Straub's own post-and-beam home in Pasadena was another project that brought the practice commissions.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1844167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844167", "title": "WUBG (AM)", "text": "WUBG (AM)\n\nWUBG (1570 AM) – branded \"K-Love\" – is a non-commercial contemporary Christian radio station licensed to serve Methuen, Massachusetts. Owned by Costa-Eagle Radio Ventures Limited Partnership—a partnership between Pat Costa and \"The Eagle-Tribune\"—and operated by the Educational Media Foundation, WUBG acts as the K-Love affiliate for the northern suburbs of Greater Boston, and one of two affiliates in the market operated by EMF, Westborough-licensed WKVB being the other. In addition to a standard analog transmission, WUBG simulcasts over low-power Methuen FM translator W287CW (105.3 FM), and is available online. The WUBG transmitter is located in Andover, while W287CW's transmitter resides in Medford.\n\nThe station signed on the air as WMLO, a 500-watt radio station originally licensed to Beverly, Massachusetts, on December 22, 1963. It changed its call sign to WBVD on December 5, 1979 and to WNSH on July 1, 1984. Its studios have been located in Danvers, in Salem (at Pickering Wharf), in two different buildings at Endicott College in Beverly, and on the second floor of a hardware warehouse in Hamilton. \n\nIn 2011, Willow Farm, Inc. sold WNSH for $400,000 to Costa-Eagle Broadcasting. In March 2011, Costa-Eagle changed the station to \"Viva 1570.\" The format changed from tropical music, simulcasting Costa-Eagle sister station WNNW, to Spanish adult contemporary. On November 26, 2012, the call letters were changed to WMVX. The station switched to a Brazilian Portuguese music and talk format in July 2014. On October 8, 2014, the New England Revolution soccer team announced that WMVX would become its Portuguese-language flagship station.\n\nIn January 2013, WMVX was granted a U.S. Federal Communications Commission (FCC) construction permit to increase daytime power to 50,000 watts. Even with the anticipated increase to 50,000 watts, the maximum AM power allowed by the FCC, the permit required the station to reduce power at night to 85 watts because 1570 kHz is a Mexican clear channel frequency and WMVX must protect XERF in Ciudad Acuña, Coahuila, the Class A station on 1570. In 2016, the station switched its city of license from Beverly to Methuen with its transmitter in Andover, Massachusetts.\n\nThe station changed its call sign to WCCM on April 1, 2017. It swapped call letters with its sister station in Salem, New Hampshire. Also in 2017, the Brazilian Portuguese programming, branded \"Nossa Radio,\" was dropped from the station. Its programmer, the International Church of the Grace of God, bought WBIX the following year, to air programming for the Boston area's Brazilian and Portuguese listeners. WCCM then returned to simulcasting WNNW, and briefly ran a separate Spanish-language music format branded \"Galaxia.\"\n\nIn March 2018, the station was heard simulcasting sister station WMVX (with an FM translator at 98.9 MHz), running classic hits as \"Valley 98.9.\" On April 2, 2018, 1570 AM started broadcasting a classic hits format separate from WMVX. On April 3, the call sign was changed to WUBG.\n\nOn July 1, 2019, WUBG's classic hits format went online-only, while 1570 AM and the 105.3 translator switched to EMF's \"K-Love\" contemporary Christian format.\n\nIn addition to the main station, WUBG is relayed by an FM translator.\n\n"}
{"id": "1844169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844169", "title": "Poa flabellata", "text": "Poa flabellata\n\nPoa flabellata, commonly known as tussac grass or just tussac, is a tussock grass native to southern South America, the Falkland Islands, South Georgia and other islands in the South Atlantic. There are also two isolated records from the herbarium at the French Muséum national d'histoire naturelle for the Île Amsterdam in the Indian Ocean.\n\nIt was introduced to Shetland, Scotland for basket making in 1844, and possibly as a source of fodder because of its ability to grow in hostile conditions..\nIt grows in dense clumps, usually about high (although they can be much taller), on wet coastal land and is a dominant feature of much of the landscape.\n\nThe plant community dominated by \"P. flabellata\" is widely used by birds and mammals.\n\nBreeding colonies of southern fur seal, elephant seal, Magellanic penguin, macaroni penguin, and albatrosses are all found amongst tussac grass on South Georgia and elsewhere. The austral thrush is predominantly found in this habitat on the Falkland Islands, with tussocks being used as nesting sites. The South Georgia pipit also uses the tussocks for nesting.\n\nOn South Georgia, it is a principal food of the introduced reindeer, which has caused considerable environmental damage, including erosion and replacement of tussac grass by the introduced annual meadow-grass.\n\n"}
{"id": "1844178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844178", "title": "Vehicle registration plates of Hong Kong", "text": "Vehicle registration plates of Hong Kong\n\nIn Hong Kong, vehicle registration marks are managed by the Transport Department. The physical number plates are not provided by the government, but are made by garages to the order of the car owner.\n\nEach vehicle must display two number plates, one at the front and one at the rear of the vehicle. The front plate has black characters on a white background, and the rear plate has black characters on a yellow background. The height of the letters and numerals are not less than 8 cm (3.1 in) and not more than 11 cm (4.3 in). The plates should comply with British Standard B.S. 145a and have permanently marked on the plate the specification number \"B.S. AU 145a\".\n\nVehicles of the Chief Executive do not have registration plates. Instead, they have the Emblem of Hong Kong in front and at the rear. During British administration, the vehicle of the Governor bore the St Edward's Crown emblem.\n\nMost car numbers consist of a two-letter prefix followed by a number between 1 and 9999 without leading zeroes. Some car numbers do not have a letter prefix. The letters \"I\", \"O\" and \"Q\" are not used to avoid ambiguity.\n\nThe very first numbers allocated (1–9999) have no prefixes. \"HK\" and \"XX\" were the first two prefixes allocated, then went from \"AA\", \"AB\", \"AC\", all the way to \"AZ\", then \"BB\", \"BC\", \"BD\", all the way to \"BZ\" and then \"CA\", \"CB\", \"CC\", etc... There was no \"BA\" prefix allocated at the time because the government thought that it would get mixed up with \"AB\". \"BF\" was also skipped; however, authorities changed their minds to allocate the \"CA\" prefix after \"BZ\", and in 2003, \"BA\" and \"BF\" prefixes were available for auction.\n\nThe prefixes \"FU\", \"FV\" and \"ZM\" were also issued out of turn. \"FU\" and \"FV\" are typically issued to vehicles with primary registration abroad (Primarily in Mainland China), and \"ZM\" in Macau, and are used as their \"cross-border\" plates while in Hong Kong. Some \"DW\" and \"EW\" registration marks are also used for this purpose.\n\nShortly prior to the handover of Hong Kong on 1 July 1997, the Advanced Detachment of the People's Liberation Army entered Hong Kong. The vehicles of the Advanced Detachment were assigned a series of \"AD\" registrations for their Hong Kong registrations. These vehicles also displayed their Mainland Chinese registrations whilst in Hong Kong.\n\nSome prefixes are reserved and have special meanings.\n\nAs of May 2020, the current allocated prefix is \"WT\".\n\nAfter the exhaustion of two-digit prefixes \"ZZ\", a new scheme will be required but it has not yet been announced.\n\nFormerly, motorcycles used a different set of registration marks. Like the marks for cars, the very first numbers had no prefixes. Later, marks with a single-letter prefix were issued. For example, \"B 281\", \"C 367\".\n\nThe separate issuance system of registration marks for motorcycles has been discontinued and merged with the main system. Some registered motorcycles still bear the early marks. Hence, a unique registration mark without letter prefix could be found on two different types of vehicles.\n\n\n\n\nThese are specific car \"numbers\" with no numbers, simply letters only\n\n\nA car number is a special registration mark if\n\nAlthough unlisted above, some traditional lucky numbers may be reserved, especially numbers that contain 3 or 8, which are pronounced in Cantonese similarly to words that mean \"long life\" and \"prosperity\" respectively. For example, 168 is always a reserved number since its pronunciation in Cantonese means \"Rich all-time\".\n\nLucky numbers are allocated only after sale by public auction which takes place from time to time. The proceeds of the auction goes to the Government Lotteries Fund to be used for charitable purposes.\n\nFrom 1973, the Transport Department of the Hong Kong government conducts auctions to sell numbers. Currently, auctions are usually on Saturdays and sometimes on Sundays, and there are about two auctions per month. Numbers sold must be assigned to a car registered in the name of the buyer of the number within 12 months from the date of auction. The car can be an existing car of the buyer, or a car purchased from someone else after the auction, or a brand new car to be purchased after the auction. The Transport Department can advise whether a number has been allocated.\n\nA special registration mark obtained in an auction is not transferable, that is to say, the number can be used only on vehicles registered under the name of the buyer. Transferring a special registration mark from one vehicle to another is permitted provided that they are both owned by the same person. Sale or transfer of vehicles bearing a special registration mark to someone else would lose that special registration mark. If the buyer is assigned the special registration mark to a vehicle, and later dies, the special registration mark cannot be transferred together with the vehicle to his heirs. Therefore, it is very important to consider in whose name one should buy a special registration mark in an auction. The use of a limited liability company as the buyer gets around the non-transferable restriction because of its perpetual succession and the ability to transfer the company shares.\n\nExcept with \"AM\" , \"LC\" or \"ZG\" prefixes, any unallocated usual numbers may be reserved for auction, provided it has an earlier prefix in the sequence, or the current prefix, or the next immediate prefix. For example, if the current prefix is \"LX\", then a number with a prefix \"AA\", \"AB\", ...\"AZ\", \"BA\", ... \"LX\", or \"LY\" may be reserved for auction. Numbers having no prefix or a \"XX\" prefix may also be reserved for auction. It is doubtful whether numbers with the \"ZG\" prefix may be reserved for auction after the prefix runs to \"ZF\".\nTo reserve a non-special registration mark for auction, one needs to pay a deposit of HK$1000. The minimum price for the number is also HK$1000. If the number is successfully bid for by a person other than the person who reserved the number, their deposit is refunded. If no one else bids at the auction, the number is sold to the person who reserved the number, for HK$1000. If it is a special registration mark, there is no deposit to pay, and the minimum price will be set by the Transport Department but will be higher than HK$1000.\n\nTh Personalised Vehicle Registration Marks Scheme was adopted since 2006 to allow creation of numbers with up to 8 characters (including letters and/or numbers). The letters \"I\", \"O\" and \"Q\" are banned from use in the new scheme, with the former two letters officially recognised as numbers \"1\" and \"0\" respectively. Since \"I\" and \"O\" look identical to \"1\" and \"0\" under the standard font type used on Hong Kong plates, phrases like \"SIU SIU\" and \"I LOVE U\" can be printed on the plates, although they are officially recognised as \"S1U S1U\" and \"1 L0VE U\".\n\nThe numbers under this scheme are auctioned for a minimum of HK$5000. Although drivers are usually granted their choice of plate, obtaining a unique or easily recognised plate can be very competitive. For example, the registration \"I LOVE U\" was sold at a charity auction for HK$1.4 million. The first PVRMS auction was held on 16 September 2006.\n\nThe plate \"1\" is reserved for the Commissioner of Police, while plate numbers '2' to '10' have all been sold at auction. Some of the owners are Hong Kong celebrities. The current owners of number plates 1 to 10 are:\n\nUnlike some other countries (where diplomatic cars have special registration numbers), cars operated by foreign consulates, consular staff, and various international organisations have been given \"CC\" (consular corps) badges, with red writing on a white background. These are oval in shape, and are much smaller than the registration plate, but are affixed to the front and back of the vehicle.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1844180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844180", "title": "Escravos River", "text": "Escravos River\n\nThe Escravos River is a river in southern Nigeria. \"Escravos\" is a Portuguese word meaning \"slaves\" and the area was one of the main conduits for slave trade between Nigeria and the United States in the 18th century. The Escravos is a distributary of the Niger River, it flows for , ending at the Bight of Benin of the Gulf of Guinea where it flows into the Atlantic Ocean. Chevron, a major US oil company, has its main Nigerian oil production facility at the mouth of the Escravos River. This oil terminal pumps approximately .\n"}
{"id": "1844187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844187", "title": "Egg tart", "text": "Egg tart\n\nThe egg tart () is a kind of custard tart found in Greater China deriving from the Portuguese pastel de nata and having the influence of the English custard tart; it can also be referred as \"\"po tat\"\" (\"Portuguese tart\") in Chinese or simply \"\"daahn tāat\"\" in Cantonese. The dish consists of an outer pastry crust filled with egg custard. Egg tarts are often served at dim sum restaurants and cha chaan tengs.\n\nThe egg tart started being sold in the early 20th century in Guangdong province, Guangzhou, inspired by the pastel de nata, which was already famous in England, and the English custard tart. Guangzhou's status as the only port accessible to foreign traders led to the development of Cantonese cuisine having many outside influences. As Guangzhou's economy grew from trade and interaction with Britain, pastry chefs at the Western-style department stores in the city were asked to invent new pastries weekly to attract customers from competitors. The egg tart, featuring a lard-based puff pastry crust and a filling similar to steamed egg pudding (燉蛋), was invented by a department store for one of these \"Weekly Special\" competitions. The Zhen Guang Restaurant in Guangzhou is also credited with inventing the Chinese egg tart.\nEgg tarts were introduced to Hong Kong via Guangzhou in the 1940s but initially could only be found in higher-end Western-style restaurants. In the 1960s, cha chaan tengs began to serve egg tarts, popularizing the pastry with the working-class Hong Kong population. \n\nHong Kong egg tarts are typically smaller and served in twos or threes, in contrast to the original Guangzhou egg tarts which were larger and could be served as a single item. The custard filling may be flavored with chocolate, green tea, abalone or bird's nest, and the outer shell may be made with shortcrust pastry or puff pastry. \n\nIn June 2014, the technique of egg tart production was formally included in the Intangible Cultural Heritage Inventory of Hong Kong. \n\nIn 1989, British pharmacist Andrew Stow and his wife Margaret Wong opened Lord Stow's Bakery in Coloane, where they sold a Macau-style egg tart that attempted to recreate the pastel de nata. This variation is referred to in Chinese as \"\"po tat\"\" (\"Portuguese tart\"). In 1999, Wong sold the recipe to KFC, which then introduced the Macau-style pastel de nata to other Asian countries including Singapore and Taiwan. \n\nIn contrast to the Hong Kong-style egg tart, the Macau-style egg tart features a caramelized browned top.\n\n"}
{"id": "1844190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844190", "title": "Banner of arms", "text": "Banner of arms\n\nA banner of arms is a type of heraldic flag which has the same image as a coat of arms, \"i.e.\" the shield of a full heraldic achievement, rendered in a square or rectangular shape of the flag.\n\nThe term is derived from the terminology of heraldry but mostly used in vexillology. Examples of modern national flags which are banners of arms are the flags of Austria, Iraq, and Switzerland.\n\nThe banner of arms is sometimes simply called a banner, but a banner is in a more strict sense a one of a kind personal flag of a nobleman held in battle.\n"}
{"id": "1844197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844197", "title": "FB Tantal", "text": "FB Tantal\n\nThe \"karabinek wzór 1988\" (Carbine Model 1988) Tantal is a 5.45×39mm assault rifle designed and produced in Poland in the late 1980s.\n\nDesign work on the new rifle officially began in 1984 at the government-owned \"Ośrodek Badawczo-Rozwojowy\" (OBR) in the city of Radom at the request of the Polish Ministry of Defense (the OBR institute had already been studying a possible 5.45mm weapon since late 1980). In 1985, the weapon’s parameters were confirmed and factory tests were conducted by the end of that year. In 1986 the first batch of prototypes was fabricated for evaluation and qualification testing.\n\nThese early prototypes, initially designated wz. 1981, were modeled on the Soviet 7.62mm AKM assault rifle. As the weapon was intended to be able to launch rifle grenades, a newly designed, multi-functional muzzle device and a sturdier folding shoulder stock were used (the wire stock is a copy of the wire stock used on the East German MPi-KMS-72 rifle). Additionally, the wz. 81 was equipped with a mechanically limited burst fire mode, borrowed from the AKMS wz. 1980 prototype developed in the late 1970s by OBR.\n\nBy the end of 1987 the rifle was extensively overhauled and improved (among the changes made, a series of components were introduced that were meant to be interchangeable with the AK-74, including the bolt carrier, bolt, magazines and the burst fire mode was further refined). In January 1988, these product improved prototypes were again evaluated, and in 1989 the rifle was declared to have met its requirements, followed by an order for a pre-production batch, which was manufactured that same year. In 1990 the rifles were successfully evaluated and then transferred for final operational testing. In 1991 the rifle was introduced into service with the Polish Army as the \"5,45 mm karabinek wz. 1988\" (kbk wz. 88).\n\nThe weapon’s design was authored by the team of engineers at OBR in Radom, under the guidance of B. Szpaderski. The rifle was produced exclusively with a folding wire stock by the Łucznik Arms Factory in Radom.\n\nThe Tantal is a selective fire, gas piston operated weapon that taps expanding exhaust gases off through a port in the barrel to a gas cylinder above the barrel. The barrel is locked against its longitudinal axis by a right rotating bolt. A spring extractor is contained inside the bolt head, and a fixed ejector—inside the receiver housing.\n\nThe fire control selector, with its lever located on the left side of the receiver wall, enables fully automatic fire (lever in the “C”-marked position), semi-automatic fire (“P”) and 3-round burst fire mode (“S”). The selector can be operated with the safety either engaged or disabled. The burst mode is achieved through a ratcheting device on the left side of the receiver that interacts with the trigger group on the trigger-disconnector and hammer pins. Its location eliminates the need for an anti-pin walkout device, such as a Shepard's Crook on semi-auto AKs and extended auto sear spring on full-autos. It also has an advantage to the M16 Rifle's burst mode in that releasing the trigger in the middle of a burst (1-2 shot fired instead of full 3) causes the ratchet to reset making the next 3-round burst a new, full one instead of a continuation of the previous. The PA md. 86 achieves burst fire in a very similar manor with ratcheting device on trigger-disconnector and hammer pins though simply has a standard AK selector switch with an additional notch for burst and still retains the Rate Reducer, which the Tantal lacks.\n\nThe weapon is secured against misfires through a manually operated safety (whose lever, as in the AKM is located on the right side of the receiver), that disables the trigger bar and limits the movement of the bolt carrier. Sliding the safety selector to the top position (marked with a “Z” symbol) secures the weapon, lowering the lever down (“O” setting) disables the safety. The Tantal feeds from a double-column curved box magazine, made from a synthetic bakelite material or stamped metal, with a 30-round cartridge capacity.\n\nThe cold hammer forged barrel has a chrome-plated bore with 4 right-hand grooves at a 200 mm twist rate. It is equipped with a multifunction muzzle brake that can be used to launch rifle grenades.\n\nThe Tantal features a metal wire side-folding stock (folds to the right side), ended with a profiled shoulder pad. The rifle can also use a fixed wooden or synthetic buttstock designed for AKM or AK-74 rifles. Both the upper and lower handguard and pistol grip are fabricated from bakelite, although a limited number of Tantal-specific black polymer handguards and pistol grips have also been produced. Most handguards designed for use with the wz. 1996 Beryl assault rifle may also be installed on the Tantal.\n\nThe rifle has mechanically adjustable iron sights that consist of a notch on a sliding tangent and forward post. The rear sight’s drop arm has a range scale engraved with settings from 1 to 10 (corresponding to firing ranges from 100 to 1,000 m, graduated every 100 m) and a fixed setting “S” that is the equivalent to setting “4” on the range scale. Additionally, the sight assembly is fitted with a radium gas illuminated vial that enables use in low light and near dark conditions.\n\nEquipment supplied with the Tantal includes: three spare magazines, a 6H4 type bayonet with scabbard, bipod, four 15-round stripper clips (they enable rapid magazine charging), a stripper clip guide, cleaning kit, sling, magazine pouch and a lubricant bottle. The weapon's muzzle brake can also be replaced with a blank firing adaptor for use with blanks during training exercises.\n\nThe wz. 88 rifle fires the intermediate 5.45×39mm round with either standard, tracer or training cartridges, all produced locally by Zakłady Metalowe \"Mesko\" in the town of Skarżysko-Kamienna.\n\nThe Tantal was used to develop the Onyks carbine, the karabinek-granatnik wz. 1974 rifle/grenade launcher combination and a “night” variant of the wz. 1988, equipped with a receiver side-rail used to mount an NSP-3 night sight (or Polish PCS-5 night sight).\nKbk wz. 1990, a prototype made to fire 5.56 round, but the Polish Army wasn't interested in developing this idea.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1844203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844203", "title": "Lodger (Finnish band)", "text": "Lodger (Finnish band)\n\nLodger is a Finnish rock band, formed by Teemu Merilä in 2002. Although largely unknown outside of Finland, they have established a cult following on the Internet due to the popularity of their Flash music videos. The song \"Floozy With An Uzi\" is taken from the novel \"Vineland\" by Thomas Pynchon.\n\nIn the latter half of 2002 singer/songwriter Teemu Merilä created Lodger as a vehicle for his music, bringing together Jyri Riikonen on keyboards, Hannes Häyhä on bass, Antti Laari on drums, and London-based Richard Anderson on guitar. During the summer of 2003, the group recorded a self-financed demo of \"Hi-Fi High Lights Down Low\". Shortly thereafter, Häyhä created a Flash music video for \"Doorsteps\" featuring a hapless one-eyed stick man. That year, \"Doorsteps\" went on to win \"best flash\" in the Bradford Animation Festival, as well as winning the Oulu Music Video Festival. In fact, these \"One-Eyed Films\" would prove so popular that the group went on to adopt a one-eyed skull and crossbones as its logo.\n\nIn 2004, Anderson returned to Britain, and was replaced by guitarist Panu Riikonen. \"Hi-Fi High\" was made available for purchase within Finland and the response was overwhelmingly positive - Lodger's debut release was the best-selling album at Stupido (a Finish record retailer) for 2004. Häyhä went on to create a second One-Eyed Film, \"I Love Death\" which proved to be even more popular than \"Doorsteps\".\n\n2005 saw Lodger release two One-Eyed Films in the form of advertisements: \"God Has Rejected the Western World\" for Sabotaz spray paints, and \"24h Candy Machine\" for idea-protector.com. In September, a remastered version of \"Hi-Fi High Lights Down Low\" was made available for sale. This remastered version contained a slightly different track list than the 2004 offering; although it included \"24h Candy Machine\", \"Everyone Got to Go\" and \"Divine Right\" were conspicuously absent.\n\nIn 2007 Lodger finished work on their second album, \"How Vulgar\". \"How Vulgar\" was released in Finland, Germany, Switzerland and Austria on 14 March 2007. No other release dates have been announced.\n\nAfter almost a year of apparent hiatus, from summer of 2007 to spring of 2008, Lodger released three new songs and redesigned their website. Their third album, \"Honeymoon is Over\" was released on 19 November 2008.\n\nIn June 2009 Lodger indicated via Twitter that their next album would be titled \"Sunday of a Male Shouvinist\". However, in February 2012, the band announced a new website which stated their next album would be titled \"Low Blue Flame\" and would be available to download for free. After a while, they made two songs from the new album available for listening on their website. On 25 December 2013 the other eight songs of \"Low Blue Flame\" was made available for listening on their site. On 9 January 2014 the band put up a mastered version of \"Low Blue Flame\" for free download on their website. The band has also stated that the album would see a CD-release some time in the future.\n\nLodger's lyrics are often cynical and nihilistic; their discography includes such titles as \"I Love Death\" which details the drudgery in life of the average person and \"God Has Rejected the Western World\", an anthem decrying the superficiality of western society. Their unabashed attitude is most apparent in their music videos, which prominently features smoking, drinking, sex, masturbation, rape and death.\n\nIn \"Low Blue Flame\", the same cynical style was applied to biblical figures. For instance, \"Song of Job\" is a written monologue by the titular character from the Book of Job.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1844207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844207", "title": "Landi Kotal", "text": "Landi Kotal\n\nLanḍī Kōtal (; ) or Lwargai ( \"Lwāṛgai\") is a town in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan, and the administrative capital of Khyber District. It was one of the largest towns in the former Federally Administered Tribal Areas, and is located above sea level, on the route across the mountains to the city of Peshawar. Landi Kotal is at the western edge of the Khyber Pass that marks the entrance to the Nangarhar Province of Afghanistan, which is located just to the west.\n\nLandi Kotal is a tourist destination. It was the terminus railway station of Khyber Pass Railway. A tourist train, the Khyber train safari was run on this railway. However, the train was closed down in 2006 due to washing away of the railway track and bridges by flood.\n\nLandi Kotal is the main shopping centre for the Shalmani, Shinwari, Afridi, and Mulagori tribes of Khyber Agency.\n\nLandi Kotal was the westernmost part of the Khyber held by the British during their rule of the Indian subcontinent. In 1897 the Afridis attacked Landi Kotal and other posts in the Khyber Pass. Although the Khyber Rifles put up a stiff defence, Landi Kotal was overrun, as the Rifles lacked water. The British counter-attacked with a force of 34,500 men under Sir William Lockhart, defeating the Afridis, although the Afridis took the town again during the second Anglo-Afghan War.\n\nThe Landi Kotal fort during the period of British rule was of the ordinary type, consisting of a keep and an outer fort with accommodation for 5 British officers and 500 native officers and men. From 1899, like the other posts in the Khyber, it had been garrisoned by the Khyber Rifles, an irregular corps of militia recruited from the tribes of the Khyber Agency.\n\nIn 1925 the heavily engineered Khyber Pass Railway was opened linking Jamrud to the Landi Kotal.\n\n"}
{"id": "1844212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844212", "title": "European route E20", "text": "European route E20\n\nEuropean route E20 is a part of the United Nations International E-road network. It runs roughly west–east through Ireland, the United Kingdom, Denmark, Sweden, Estonia, and Russia. \n\nIts length is but it is not continuous; at three points, a sea crossing is required. Roll-on/roll-off ferries make the crossings from Dublin to Liverpool and from Stockholm to Tallinn. No publicly accessible ferries traverse the North Sea from Kingston-upon-Hull to Esbjerg (as of 2019), but a ferry for commercial drivers leaves Immingham for Esbjerg on most days.\n\nThe initial section of the E20 from Shannon Airport to Dublin via Limerick is approximately 228 km long and is only partially signed, along the M7/N7. The section from Shannon Airport to east of Limerick is mainly dual carriageway, with a short section of motorway as part of the Limerick Southern Ring Road. The Shannon Tunnel, opened on 16 July 2010, completed the bypass of Limerick. The section from Limerick to Naas is motorway (M7), and the final section from Naas to Dublin is dual carriageway (N7). A ferry must be used from Dublin to Liverpool.\n\nE20 follows the A5080 from Liverpool to Huyton, the M62 from Huyton to South Cave, and the A63 from South Cave to Kingston upon Hull. The route length across the UK is in total but is not signposted.\n\nThere are no ferries between Kingston upon Hull and Esbjerg. Alternative ferries were once available from Immingham, which is from Kingston upon Hull, and Harwich, which is from Kingston upon Hull. There are no longer any passenger routes operating between the UK and Scandinavia.\n\nThe closest alternative is to take the Eurotunnel Shuttle from Cheriton (Folkestone) to Calais, or take a ferry from Harwich to Hook of Holland. Both of these routes would require a detour of around 900 miles (940 miles to Esbjerg, as this route would require you to drive along the E20 to reach Esbjerg).\n\nIn Denmark, E20 is a motorway from Esbjerg to the Øresund Bridge. The length of the Danish part is .\n\nIt passes first along Jutland from Esbjerg to Kolding, then crosses the Little Belt Bridge onto Funen. E20 crosses the entirety of Funen, passing around 2km from Odense. Then, at Nyborg, E20 crosses the Great Belt Fixed Link onto Zealand. E20 follows the Vestmotorvejen until Køge, where it goes north to Copenhagen. In Copenhagen, E20 passes south of the city, crossing onto Kastrup where it meets the Copenhagen Airport. The Øresund Bridge begins as a tunnel on Kastrup.\n\nBetween Køge and Copenhagen, the road has three E-road numbers (E47 and E55).\n\nThe Great Belt Bridge and Øresund Bridge are both tolled, charging over €30 each. The road crosses the border between Denmark and Sweden on the Øresund Bridge.\n\nIn Sweden, E20 is a motorway from the Öresund Bridge in Malmö to Nääs 30 km east of Gothenburg, a long motorway. Furthermore, it is a motorway most of the route from Vretstorp (20 km (12 mi) west of Örebro) to Stockholm.\n\nThe Swedish part of E20 is long. Its extent is shared with E6 along a long stretch, with E18 along and with E4 along .\n\nThe part through Stockholm has very heavy traffic, including the most heavily trafficked road in Scandinavia, Essingeleden (160 000 vehicles/day). There is often congestion on this stretch. A new tunnel for route E20, \"Norra länken\", was built north of the city center and opened 30 November 2014. The planned Förbifart Stockholm bypass will divert traffic from Essingeleden.\n\nBetween Stockholm and Tallinn a car ferry departs daily, taking 15 hours. The port in Stockholm is located at Lilla Värtan, about 4 km northeast of the central core of the city.\n\nIn Estonia, E20 follows the route of national main road nr. 1 (Tallinn–Narva). In Tallinn to relieve traffic a bridge has been built on the intersection of the E263 and the E20. The E20 across Estonia is partially an unsigned expressway (speed limit 110 km/h in summer), for 80.7 km east of Tallinn to Aaspere along with a section near Haljala (km 87 - 90.5) and a section between Kohtla-Järve and Jõhvi (km 155.9–163.2). The remainder being single carriageway. The distance from Tallinn to the Russian border at the Narva River is 218 km.\n\nIn Russia, the route takes the Narva Highway (also listed in the Russian road numbering system as the A180 route, formerly known as the M11 route) running from Ivangorod to Saint Petersburg as a dual-lane highway. The distance from Ivangorod to Saint Petersburg is 142 km.\n\nThe border control facilities at the Estonia-Russia crossing are equipped and being operated for a limited amount of traffic on both sides of the border. The border crossing requires a reservation - despite this, waiting lines still can extend for many hours and even days.\n\n"}
{"id": "1844213", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844213", "title": "Eurotas (river)", "text": "Eurotas (river)\n\nThe Eurotas (Greek: Εὐρώτας) or Evrotas (Modern Greek: Ευρώτας) is the main river of Laconia and one of the major rivers of the Peloponnese, in Greece. The river's springs are located just northwest of the border between Laconia and Arcadia, at Skortsinos. The river is also fed by underwater springs at Pellana and by tributaries coursing down from Mt. Taygetos and Mt. Parnon, which flank the Eurotas valley to the west and east, respectively. The river is long, flowing in a north-south direction and emptying into the Laconian Gulf.\n\nThe classical Eurotas was changed to Iri in the Middle Ages and only changed back to Eurotas in recent times. Eurotas, however, is not the most ancient name of the river. It does not appear in the works of Homer, which purport to recount the stories and geography of Mycenaean Greece. In that legendary time, the Dorians are not known to have been present in the Eurotas Valley. At some time prior to being called Eurotas, the river was the Bomycas and the Himeras.\n\nOne etymology derives the word Eurōtas from the ancient Greek eurōs (εὐρώς), \"mold\". The adjective, eurōeis, \"moldy,\" is genuinely ancient, used as an epithet of Hades in Homer. It is, however, in the Ionic dialect.\n\nThe source of the Eurotas River is a surface spring called Piges Evrota (Πηγές Ευρώτα, \"Eurotas Springs\") located near the village of Skortsinos, Arcadia, by the side of the road ascending from Kyparissi. The spring is an outlet of an aquifer located in the adjacent limestone ridge at a locale called Kephalari. The ridge, a karst, is not part of the Taygetus Massif, but, like the other mountains of Arcadia, is a nappe raised by the compressional forces on the Hellenic Plate by the subduction of Africa. The spring is also called Logaras Spring.\n\nLogaras Spring supplies an anciently constructed catchment basin about the size of a pond, sometimes called a lake, which exits both to irrigation channels and to the Alpheios stream (not to be confused with the Alpheios river in the northwestern Peloponnese). The flow is copious except in times of drought. A recent study measured the outflow through the catchment exit every 15 days for 540 days in 2006-2007. It recorded a maximum of 1748 cubic m per hour and a minimum of 310.5 cubic m per hour. From the catchment at an altitude of part of the water flows into the Alpheios stream, which enters the upper Eurotas.\n\nThe Laconian Alpheios stream is unconnected with the Alpheios river in Arcadia. The identity of their names comes from an ancient geologic misunderstanding that the Eurotas and the Apheios were connected underground, which deceived even Pausanias, one of the best ancient geographers. He believed they had the same source but that the outflow stream disappeared into a chasm only to emerge at different locations as different streams. In the most exaggerated form of the myth, the Alpheios continues under the Mediterranean to Sicily or elsewhere.\n\nToday, the river is hydromorphologically far from its natural state. The main problem is anthropogenic abstraction of water, by many methods, from the shallow aquifer through which it flows. The valley contains about 7000 wells. Water is directly removed by irrigation ditches, weirs, and pumping stations. Consequently, the river is intermittent; large sections are typically dry of surface water, even though water still flows in the aquifers. Flash flooding is a problem. Through flood control, the riverbed has been widened in places and straightened, and the vegetation has been removed from its sides. The lower river runs between dikes in a long, straight course.\n\nMost of the numerous tributaries of the Eurotas are right-bank, feeding the shallow aquifer. They are, however, intermittent and ephemeral. The major ones have cut deep ravines into the Taygetus Massif. The few left-bank tributaries, receiving waters from the deep aquifer, are more substantial, but still intermittent.\n\nThe classical Oineus was changed to Kelefina in the Middle Ages and not restored to its ancient name until recent times. The current Magoulitsa was formerly the Trypiotiko.\n\nThe rich alluvial soil through which the final 10 km of the Eurotas flows was not there in antiquity. The Eurotas has aggraded the innermost bay of the gulf. The old coastline can be approximated by a line on the periphery of the plain of Elos marking the border within which prehistoric archaeological sites are not found. The line on the west follows the Skala-Gytheion road to Skala, the Skala-Molaoi road to Vlachiotis, southeast along the edge of the rising terrain to Asteri and south from there to the coast. Due to changes in sea level, some land on the flanks of the gulf has been drowned.\n\nThe current communities of Elos, Leimonas and Agioi Taxiarches have been constructed on aggraded land. As Pausanias mentions that Elos was a port city, the current Elos cannot be identified with it. Skala, on the other hand, means \"place of embarkation.\" The location of the ancient port, however, is not yet known for certain.\n\nIn Greek legend, the human ancestor of all the peoples that inhabited the Eurotas Valley was Lelex, eponymous king of the Leleges, one of the peoples of the eastern Aegean whom the classical writers saw as autochthonous; that is, indigenous and pre-Hellenic. His son or grandson was Eurotas, the last of the line. The latter had a daughter, Sparta, but no sons. An outsider married her, Lacedaemon. Although he named the state Sparta after her, his name is now known to have most likely been the name of the Mycenaean state.\n\nMycenaean, or late Bronze Age Greece is generally conceded to be Achaean Greek on the evidence of the Linear B and Hittite documents. If any Dorians were present they were not in any capacity overtly recorded by the surviving administrative records; however, most of the records have not survived, so in reality we do not know. Hypothetically, if the Leleges really were in the Eurotas valley, the time of their ascendancy would have been before Mycenaean times.\n\nUntil the late 20th century, evidence in the valley of earlier occupation seemed to be lacking. Beginning in 1968 the University of Cambridge began a survey by underwater archaeology of a drowned town between Pounta on the mainland and Elafonisos island on the eastern side of the Laconian Gulf. The town extended over the entire drowned isthmus from 60 rock-cut tombs on the Pounta shore (a beach) to the remains of walls on Pavlopetri island off Elafonisos. A subsequent survey in 2009 discovered even earlier parts of the town and recovered additional pottery. A chronological study was done on \"442 ceramic items, an iron nail and an obsidian chip.\" More research on the site is planned.\n\nThe town was apparently continuously occupied from the late Neolithic to Byzantine times when it was drowned, perhaps by an earthquake. Neolithic ceramics were only 3% of the 444 items. The town was mainly Early Bronze Age, which had 40%. The early Helladic pottery is \"standard ... some showing close links with the Cyclades, western Crete and the northeastern Aegean.\" The \"15% Middle Bronze Age\" is represented by middle Helladic and middle Minoan. This archaeological scenario is not incompatible with the Aegean distribution of the Leleges, although it is not possible to say who the early and middle Bronze Age inhabitants were.\n\nThe late Bronze Age had 25% of the items. Classical and Byzantine items were minimal, indicating a probable near abandonment of the city at the end of the late Bronze Age.\n\nArchaeology has provided a more complete story for the Mycenaean period. On the left bank of the Eurotas, across from Sparta, is a ridge on which sits a temple called the \"Menelaon\". In the 20th century a survey by the British School of Archaeology revealed that the entire ridge, located in the municipal unit of Therapnes, ancient Therapnē, had been covered by a walled Mycenaean town, dated to the late Bronze Age by the late Helladic (LH3) pottery with some middle Helladic (MH) pottery in \"pockets in the bedrock.\" The archaeologists analyzing the site recognized a building Period I, dated between LH2B–LH3A1, the latter being brought to and end about 1425 BCE by a severe earthquake. Remains of a mansion with Minoan pottery date from Period I.\n\nDuring Period IA, the hill settlement was rebuilt. The structures included kilns for smelting bronze. In Period II, dated to LH3A1, a villa-type structure was built of a terrace formed from previous building material further down to the south. It was probably two-story, megaron-type, with \"less substantial walls\" but \"a massive foundation for what could be a defense tower.\" It was connected to the top by stairs. Period III, LH3A2–LH3B2, begins with 150 years of apparent abandonment and then a limited reconstruction of a one-story structure on the terrace. The staircase was blocked. The entire ridge was intensely occupied leaving a profusion of Mycenaean pottery. The villa was burned at the end of LH3B2, leaving a destruction level. Two persons buried in the associated rubble appear to have died violently. Occupation of the hill went on through the Greek Dark Age, reduced to the Menelaon shrine in the Archaic and Classical Periods. Dedications to Menelaus and Helen are found in its vicinity starting the Archaic period.\n\nThe excavators concluded that in the \"later 15th century\" (BCE) the ridge was \"the principal settlement site in Laconia.\" The shrine and its dedications identify it as the site of Homeric Sparta, capital of a ruling couple believed by the population of the Archaic Period to have been Menelaos and Helen.\n\nThe classical-era city of Sparta was built on the west bank of the Eurotas about halfway down the valley. The Spartans made little use of the left bank of the river: Only one permanent bridge has been found that crossed to it, at Therapne just south of the city. The main traffic was southward to the port of Gytheio, which was the most convenient outlet. All others involved a trek over mountains.\n\nModern Laconia is a political subdivision of Greece covering the Eurotas Valley, the massifs on either side, the two headlands, and the enclosed Laconian Gulf with its coastal islands. Its seat is the city of Sparta, as in ancient times, at a site which dominated and still dominates the valley from its central position. However, the rich-soil plain is entirely divided into villages that practice agriculture, viticulture, and arboriculture intensely.\n\nThe main roads from Sparta form a branching network leading out radially from the city to connect other cities and towns in the valley. A web of secondary roads fills in the spaces between the main roads.\n\nIn modern times, much of the river water is used for irrigation, with the result that the Eurotas is almost dry during the summer months. The waters of the Eurotas are used to irrigate mainly citrus crops, for which Laconia is famous. The plain of Elos near the river's mouth is particularly fertile farmland.\n\nIn the winter months, the Eurotas is prone to flooding. On 24 November 2005 heavy floods damaged buildings and stranded automobiles in the streets, and harmed orchards, including the valley's famous orange and olive groves. The floods affected many villages along the valley as well as the town of Gytheio; of land was ruined.\n\nCurrently the nitrate waste from fertilizers is polluting the river, aggravated by diminished flow because of the irrigation demands on it.\n\nThe Eurotas River occupies the floor of a rift valley, or \"graben\", created by extensional forces acting over the Hellenic Plate in a northeast-southwest direction. The corresponding fault-block mountains are the Taygetus Massif on the west and the Parnon Massif on the east – both limestone ridges derived from a former sea bed. On the east side of Taygetus is the Sparta Fault, a normal fault, which strikes in a zig-zag path along the foot of the massif and dips toward the interior of the valley. The river is on the western side. From it the scarps of the footwall of the Sparta Fault are visible at the base of Tayegetus.\n\nTaygetus is transected by deep ravines through which tributaries flow into the Eurotas. At the foot of the massif is a zone of scree. To the east of that alluvial fans from Taygetus cover half the valley, making it asymmetrical. On that account it is often called the Evrotas Furrow. The Eurotas flows over a flood plain and also through a shallow aquifer of sand and gravel 10–60 m deep, graded with the deep end downstream. The gradient of the aquifer is a steep 1–3%. The highest hydraulic conductivity and transmissivity are near the junction of the Xerias and the Eurotas south of Sparti. To the east are older and finer sediments of alternating clay and marl beds, some of which are impermeable. Under the entire valley is a deep aquifer in the limestone floor, containing water permeating downward through the horsts. The Eurotas collects runoff and drains the deep aquifer on the east bank but loses water to the shallow aquifer on the west bank.\n\nAnalysis of bore holes in the valley indicate that in the Pliocene it was a lake. In classical times, according to the ancient authors, it was swampy, but the cultivatable land exposed was very fertile. Then, as now, it was used mainly for fruit trees, especially olive.\n\nGeologic analysis done in the 20th century hypothesized that the Eurotas Valley in the Late Pliocene was an inland sea over the lower and middle valley several hundred m deep at the current mouth of the river. The fault-block geology had developed earlier. During the Pleistocene the sea level dropped exposing a flat floor. Continued slippage along the Sparta Fault dropped the middle Eurotas valley further forcing the river to cut its way through the 100–250 m hills dividing the lower from the middle valley, creating Eurotas Ravine.\n\n"}
{"id": "1844221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844221", "title": "El Topo", "text": "El Topo\n\nEl Topo (, \"The Mole\") is a 1970 Mexican acid Western film written, scored, directed by and starring Alejandro Jodorowsky. Characterized by its bizarre characters and occurrences, use of maimed and dwarf performers, and heavy doses of Christian symbolism and Eastern philosophy, the film is about the eponymous character – a violent, black-clad gunfighter – and his quest for enlightenment.\n\nEl Topo is traveling through a desert on horseback with his naked young son, Hijo. They come across a town whose inhabitants have been slaughtered, and El Topo hunts down and kills the perpetrators and their leader, a fat balding Colonel. El Topo abandons his son to the monks of the settlement's mission and rides off with a woman whom the Colonel had kept as a slave. El Topo names the woman Mara, and she convinces him to defeat four great gun masters to become the greatest gunman in the land and to earn her love. Each gun master represents a particular religion or philosophy, and El Topo learns from each of them before instigating a duel. El Topo is victorious each time, not through superior skill but through trickery or luck.\n\nAfter the first duel, a black-clad woman with a male voice finds the couple and guides them to the remaining gun masters. As he kills each master, El Topo has increasing doubts about his mission, but Mara persuades him to continue. After the final gun master outsmarts El Topo by killing himself before El Topo is able to kill him, El Topo becomes ridden with guilt, destroys his own gun and revisits the places where he killed the masters, finding their graves swarming with bees. The unnamed woman confronts El Topo and shoots him several times in the manner of stigmata. Mara then betrays him and rides off with the woman, while El Topo collapses and is carried away by a group of dwarfs and mutants.\n\nEl Topo awakens many years later in a cave to find that the tribe of deformed outcasts have taken care of him and come to regard him as a God-like figure while he has been asleep and meditating on the gun masters' \"four lessons\". The outcasts dwell in a system of caves which have been blocked in — the only exit is out of their reach due to their deformities. When El Topo awakens, he is \"born again\" and decides to help the outcasts escape. He is able to reach the exit and, together with a dwarf girl who becomes his lover, performs for the depraved cultists of the neighboring town to raise money for dynamite to assist in digging a tunnel on one side of the mountain where the outcasts have effectively been kept imprisoned.\n\nHijo, now a young monk, arrives in the town to be the new priest, but is disgusted by the perverted form of religion the cultists practice – notably symbolized by the frequent display of a basic line drawing of the Eye of Providence – and their violent preoccupation with guns, from their church \"ritual\" through to the film's bloody climax. Despite El Topo's great change in appearance, Hijo recognizes him and intends to kill him on the spot, but agrees to wait until he has succeeded in freeing the outcasts. Now wearing his father's black gunfighter clothes, Hijo grows impatient at the time the project is taking, and begins to work alongside El Topo to hasten the moment when he will kill him. At the point when Hijo is ready to give up on finishing the tunnel, El Topo breaks through into the cave. The tunnel has been completed, but Hijo finds that he cannot bring himself to kill his father.\n\nThe outcasts come streaming out, but as they enter the town, they are shot down by the cultists. El Topo helplessly witnesses the community being slaughtered and is shot himself. Powering through his wounds, he massacres the town, then takes an oil lamp and immolates himself. His lover gives birth at the same time, and she and his son make a grave for his remains. This becomes a beehive like the gun masters' graves.\n\nEl Topo's son rides off with his father's lover and child on horseback.\n\n\nFollowing the release of the film, Jodorowsky courted controversy when he claimed that the rape scene was unsimulated:\n\nWhen I wanted to do the rape scene, I explained to [Mara Lorenzio] that I was going to hit her and rape her. There was no emotional relationship between us, because I had put a clause in all the women's contracts stating that they would not make love with the director. We had never talked to each other. I knew nothing about her. We went to the desert with two other people: the photographer and a technician. No one else. I said, 'I'm not going to rehearse. There will be only one take because it will be impossible to repeat. Roll the cameras only when I signal you to [...] And I really... I really... I really raped her. And she screamed.\"\n\nHe went on to state, \"Then she told me that she had been raped before. You see, for me the character is frigid until El Topo rapes her. And she has an orgasm. That's why I show a stone phallus in that scene . . . which spouts water. She has an orgasm. She accepts the male sex. And that's what happened to Mara in reality. She really had that problem. Fantastic scene. A very, very strong scene.\"\n\nIn 2019, Jodorowsky addressed his earlier comments, clarifying that it was part of a publicity stunt: \"They were words, not facts, Surrealist publicity in order to enter the world of cinema from a position of obscurity [...] I acknowledge that this statement is problematic in that it presents fictional violence against a woman as a tool for exposure, and now, fifty years later, I regret that this is being read as truth.\"\n\nOn review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes, \"El Topo\" holds an approval rating of 78%, based on 41 reviews, and an average rating of 7.07/10. Its consensus reads, \"By turns intoxicating and confounding, \"El Topo\" contains the creative multitudes that made writer-director Alejandro Jodorowsky such a singular talent.\"\n\n\"El Topo\" was selected as the Mexican entry for the Best Foreign Language Film at the 44th Academy Awards, but was not accepted as a nominee.\n\nThe visuals were the main point of contention amongst the film's critics, who debated if the sequences and montage were meaningful or merely exploitative. Concerning the symbolism within the film, Vincent Canby of \"The New York Times\" wrote, \"They're all there, in a movie that is all guts (quite literally) but that has no body to give the guts particular shape or function.\" Canby found the film to be a con. Gene Siskel of the \"Chicago Tribune\" commented on how the visuals were perceived within the framework of drug culture. Siskel's review states, \"Under the influence, \"El Topo\" becomes a violent, would-be erotic freakshow, and that, I suppose, can be very heavy. For others, it is enough to make one yawn.\"\n\nOther critics, however, remain more enthusiastic about the film. For example, Roger Ebert includes \"El Topo\" in his Great Movies series.\n\nPeter Schjeldahl, writing for \"The New York Times\", described the film as \"a very strange masterpiece\". He says, \"On first blush it might seem no more than a violent surreal fantasy, a work of fabulous but probably deranged imagination. Surreal and crazy it may be, but it is also (one realizes the second time through) as fully considered and ordered as fine clockwork.\"\n\nNoteworthy figures said to be fans of the film include directors David Lynch, Nicolas Winding Refn and Samuel Fuller; video game writer and director Suda51; actors Peter Fonda and Dennis Hopper; comedians The Mighty Boosh and Patton Oswalt; and performers Bob Dylan, Roger Waters, Marilyn Manson, Jarvis Cocker, Peter Gabriel, George Harrison, Lucia Lee, and John Lennon. Gabriel has claimed that this movie was an inspiration for the classic Genesis concept album, \"The Lamb Lies Down on Broadway\", while collaborator Jared Eckman described the film as a failed experiment. John Barham re-recorded the score for release on Apple Records at the request of John Lennon. Suda51 cited \"El Topo\" as a key inspiration for his game \"No More Heroes\". Gore Verbinski cited it as an influence on \"Rango\".\n\nThere was no original intention to show \"El Topo\" in Mexico, where it was filmed and produced. Ben Barenholtz, an owner of the Elgin Theater in New York, saw a private screening of \"El Topo\" at the Museum of Modern Art. Barenholtz recalled that despite several audience members walking out, he was fascinated by \"El Topo\". On a failing attempt to purchase the American rights to the film, Barenholtz convinced the producer to have the film shown at midnight at The Elgin. Barenholtz chose the late showings of 1 am on Friday and at midnight during the week to give audiences a sense of \"self-discovery\". The film premiered on 18 December 1970 and ran continuously seven days a week until the end of June 1971.\n\nThe film was distributed across the United States through ABKCO Films, owned by Allen Klein, manager of The Beatles. The film was shown late at night like it was at The Elgin. It has been argued that without support from people like John Lennon and Allen Klein, the film would not have found a sizeable audience.\n\nFor many years the film could only be seen at midnight screenings in arthouses and via partially censored Japanese laserdiscs and bootleg videos. Its official DVD release was on 1 May 2007. Its first Blu-ray release was on 26 April 2011.\n\nSince at least the early 1990s, Jodorowsky has been attempting to make a sequel to \"El Topo\". In 1996, a teaser poster was released, but, apparently, no shooting was actually done. The original working-title, \"The Sons of El Topo\" (\"Los hijos del Topo\"), was changed (sometime between 1996 and 2002) to \"Abelcaín\".\n\nA 2002 article in \"The Guardian\" stated that Marilyn Manson was attached to star in the film, but that Jodorowsky was having great difficulty raising money for the project. In an interview for \"The Guardian\" in November 2009, Jodorowsky stated that his next rumoured project, a \"metaphysical western\" entitled \"King Shot\", is \"not happening\" and instead he is to begin work on \"Son of El Topo\", in collaboration with \"some Russian producers\".\n\nIn 2016 the sequel was released in comic book form under the name \"Sons of El Topo\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1844224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844224", "title": "Carl Skottsberg", "text": "Carl Skottsberg\n\nCarl Johan Fredrik Skottsberg (1 December 1880 – 14 June 1963) was a Swedish botanist and explorer of Antarctica.\n\nSkottsberg was born in Karlshamn on 1 December 1880 the son of Carl Adolf Skottsberg a schoolmaster and his wife, Maria Louisa Pfeiffer.\n\nHe was educated locally then studied Sciences at Uppsala University from 1898, specialising in Botany, and receiving his doctorate (PhD) there in 1907.\n\nFrom 1901 to 1903 Skottsberg served as official botanist to the Swedish Antarctic Expedition of 1901 to 1903 on the ship \"Antarctic\". On his return to Sweden, Skottsberg published (1905) the first comprehensive phytogeographic study of the flora of southern Patagonia and Tierra del Fuego. Later he led the Swedish Magellanic Expedition to Patagonia, 1907 to 1909. Carl Skottsberg is believed to have been the last to have seen the Santalum fernandezianum tree alive when he visited the Juan Fernández Islands in 1908.\n\nHe was conservator at the Uppsala University Botanical Museum 1909 to 1914, but led the work on the new Botanical Garden in Gothenburg from 1915, and was appointed professor and director of the garden there, Göteborg Botanical Garden, in 1919.\n\nSkottsberg was a member of the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences and several other Swedish learned societies, and was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society in 1950. That same year he presided the 7th International Botanical Congress. He was awarded the Linnean Society of London's Darwin-Wallace Medal in 1958 and the Linnean Medal in 1959.\n\nHe is buried at Östra kyrkogården in Gothenburg.\n\n\nIn 1909 he married Inga Margareta Reuter.\n"}
{"id": "1844229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844229", "title": "Falémé River", "text": "Falémé River\n\nThe Falémé River is a river in West Africa. The Falémé arises in northern Guinea and flows in a north-northeast direction to Mali, forming a short portion of the border between Guinea and Senegal. It turns north and then forms a portion of the border between Mali and Senegal, before joining the Sénégal River 50 km upstream of the town of Bakel in Senegal.\n\nThe Falémé River is around 650 km in length and drains a basin of 28,900 km. Its source is in the northern part of the Fouta Djallon highlands at an altitude of 800 m. Most of the rainfall on the highlands occurs between May and October as a result of the West African Monsoon. August is normally the wettest month. The flow of the river is highly seasonal with the maximum occurring during September and very little flow between December and June. The average annual discharge of the river over the period 1904-1984 was 6.59 km.\n\nThere are iron ore deposits in Senegal near the headwaters of this river. More recently there has been a gold rush around the village of Diabougou in Senegal and very near the Mali border.\n"}
{"id": "1844230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844230", "title": "SIRIM", "text": "SIRIM\n\nSIRIM Berhad, formerly known as the Standard and Industrial Research Institute of Malaysia (SIRIM), is a corporate organisation owned wholly by the Malaysian Government, under the Minister of Finance Incorporated. It has been entrusted by the Malaysian Government to be the national organisation for standards and quality, and as a promoter of technological excellence in the Malaysian industry. The main headquarters is located in Shah Alam, Selangor.\n\nThe organization came into operation on 1 September 1996 via corporatisation scheme of standards and industrial research institute.\n\n\n\nIn 1964, the Government of Malaysia directed the Minister of Commerce and Industry to make a study of the establishment of a national standards organization. This is in response to the urgent necessity of adopting the principles of standardization in light of Malaysia's accelerating industrial development.\n\nAs a result, the Standards Institution of Malaysia (SIM) was initially established as a Government department under the Ministry of Commerce and Industry in early 1966. In October 1966, the Standards Act No: 76, 1966 was passed in Parliament making SIM the national standards body. SIM was governed by the Standards Council. The Standards Act provides the Standards Council with independent authority for the declaration of standards and the issuance of certification mark licences.\n\nIn 1974, the National Action Council decided that SIM be merged with the National Institute for Scientific and Industrial Research (NISIR) to form the Standards and Industrial Research Institute of Malaysia (SIRIM). As a result of this decision, SIRIM was established as a statutory body under the Ministry of Science, Technology and the Environment by the SIRIM (Incorporation) Act, 1975 which came into effect on 15 September 1975. \nWith this merger, SIRIM is better equipped to expand its scope of operations in line with the rapid advancement of industrialization in Malaysia.\n\nIn view of rapidly changing market needs as a result of the accelerating national industrialization and globalization of markets, there was a need to amend the SIRIM (Incorporation) Act 1975. This will provide necessary flexibility for SIRIM to respond to these changes.\n\nThe Amendments to the SIRIM (Incorporation) Act, approved by Parliament, came into effect on 24 July 1993.\n\nThe Amendments allow SIRIM to undertake commercial operations through the formation of joint-venture or wholly owned subsidiaries. Under this Amendment, the 24-member SIRIM Council was replaced by a 13-member SIRIM of which six were from the public sector and seven from the private sector. The new SIRIM Board structure enables greater accountability and efficiency, and further strengthen the linkages between SIRIM and the industry.\n\nOn 1 September 1996, SIRIM was corporatised to be known as SIRIM Berhad. SIRIM Berhad was incorporated under the Companies Act, vested with all the rights, privileges and obligations of SIRIM.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1844231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844231", "title": "Cat7", "text": "Cat7\n\nCat 7 or CAT7 may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1844244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844244", "title": "E20", "text": "E20\n\nE20 or E-20 may refer to:\n"}
{"id": "1844246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844246", "title": "Riku Hahl", "text": "Riku Hahl\n\nRiku Markus Hahl (born November 1, 1980) is a Finnish former professional ice hockey centre, who played most notably for HPK in the Finnish Liiga and the Colorado Avalanche in the National Hockey League (NHL).\n\nHahl was drafted 183rd overall in the 1999 NHL Entry Draft by the Colorado Avalanche.\n\nBefore coming to North America, Hahl played for his hometown team, HPK, in the Finnish SM-liiga, and was known for his defensive skills as a forward. In the autumn of 2000, Hahl left for Colorado, where he impressed the Avalanche coaches at training camp and was rewarded with 43 games in the NHL in the following season, including 21 playoff games. In his NHL career, Hahl played a total of 92 regular season games scoring five goals for a total of thirteen points. He also played 34 playoff games, recording two goals and four assists.\n\nDuring the 2004–05 NHL lockout Hahl played for HPK, and represented HC Davos in the Swiss NLA during the 2005–06 season. Hahl represented Finland at the 2004 World Cup of Hockey and scored his first goal on the national team in the final against Team Canada.\n\nHahl signed with Timrå IK of Elitserien in the spring of 2006, and completed a two-year deal with the Medelpad team before leaving in 2008 for Frölunda HC.\n\nAfter three seasons with Frölunda as an alternate captain, Hahl returned to Finland to play for Jokerit, signing a two-year deal on May 19, 2011.\n\nHahl played four seasons with Jokerit, including the last campaign within the Kontinental Hockey League, before opting to return to his original club in the Liiga with HPK on an optional two-year contract on July 24, 2015.\n"}
{"id": "1844251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844251", "title": "Dexter's Laboratory: Ego Trip", "text": "Dexter's Laboratory: Ego Trip\n\nDexter's Laboratory: Ego Trip is an animated television special based on the Cartoon Network animated television series \"Dexter's Laboratory\". It was produced by Hanna-Barbera Cartoons and originally aired on December 10, 1999. The special follows Dexter, the series' protagonist, as he travels forward through time and meets futuristic versions of himself and his rival Mandark.\n\nWhile made for television, the film is the directorial debut of series creator Genndy Tartakovsky and was originally intended to conclude the series. \"Ego Trip\" was the first Cartoon Network television movie produced, and is the final \"Dexter's Laboratory\" installment to be animated using traditional cel animation. \n\nAfter chasing his rival Mandark out of his lab when he tries to steal his latest invention, the Neurotomic Protocore, Dexter asks his sister Dee Dee to leave the lab, where she unintentionally enters a time machine stored near the entrance. Suddenly, Dexter is confronted with a group of red robots that have appeared from this time machine. They declare that they are here to \"destroy the one who saved the future\" and appear to make ready to attack Dexter. Dexter easily destroys them with the use of various tools and gadgets from his lab, as the robots mysteriously don't attack at all. Believing that he is \"The One Who Saved the Future\" that the robots spoke of, Dexter decides to travel through time to discover how \"cool\" he becomes.\n\nHowever, in the first time period he visits, Dexter finds a tall, skinny, weak version of himself (known only as \"Number Twelve\") working in an office designing cubicles – and Mandark is his rich, successful – and sadistically abusive – boss. The kid Dexter berates his older self for allowing Mandark to bully him around and manages to convince him to come along to see how cool they become, but unwittingly leaves the Neurotomic Protocore and its related blueprints out in his cubicle, which Mandark steals as the two Dexters move forward in time.\n\nIn the second time period, the two Dexters meet their much older self, a wizened senior citizen Dexter about the same height as the kid Dexter (and Mandark's brain in a vat who cannot do anything other than complain about his situation). All the technology from the blueprints has been implemented, creating a utopian society of science and knowledge where anything can be materialized through the power of the Core. Due to his advanced age, however, Old Man Dexter can't remember anything about how he saved the world, so they travel back in time to find out.\n\nIn this final time period, which takes place between the first and second time periods, they find a dystopic world where everyone is stupid and fire and technology are forbidden, controlled by overlord Mandark thanks to the Neurotomic Protocore. They meet action hero Dexter, who is tall, muscular and bald, fighting Mandark's evil robots. Action Hero Dexter explains that he and Mandark had been employed as corporate research scientists many years ago, where a jealous Mandark, unable to come up with the ideas Dexter could, stole them and passed them off as his own, using them to rise through the ranks and eventually take over the company in a coup – turning Dexter into the weak, cowardly, cubicle-designing Twelve.\n\nEventually, Mandark got a hold of the Neurotomic Protocore (due to Twelve's mistake in leaving it out in his cubicle) and attempted to harness its power, but set the core's positive flow to negative due to his incompetence with it, twisting his already evil mind. As the Core's now negative energies slowly swept over the world, they gradually numbed the minds of the population and allowed him to take over the world, hoarding all science and knowledge for himself. Dexter, no longer able to stand being enslaved and determined to stop Mandark, spent years digging underground to escape Mandark's tower, growing into his Action Hero persona in the process. By the time he emerged, the world was in its current state.\n\nThe four Dexters, determined to end Mandark's oppressive rule once and for all, go back to their ruined laboratory and use its resources to build a giant robot to invade his fortress. They manage to fight their way in – though the robot is destroyed in the process – and confront Overlord Mandark, now morbidly obese with brain matter, with his only form of locomotion being carried around his lair by a hook-and-winch. Outnumbered, Mandark evens the playing field by summoning his three selves from the other time periods to help him defeat the Dexters. A battle royal ensues, with each Dexter fighting the Mandark of their respective time period. Twelve eventually stands up to his Mandark who he defeats before rallying the other Dexters to reach the Core's controls.\n\nThe fight ends in a stalemate, both groups restraining each other from pressing the Core's main button; however, Dee Dee emerges from the time machine welded into the Dexter’s now-destroyed robot. Her sudden presence confuses the Dexters and distracts the Mandarks, no one able to stop her as she – driven by her habit of seeing what buttons do – presses it herself.\n\nWith the positive flow of the Neurotomic Protocore restored, the world's intelligence returns to normal and causes Mandark's three time-displaced selves to be sent back to their own time periods, his head to burst open with only his brain intact, and his fortress to collapse. The Dexters, realizing in anger that Dee Dee was \"the one who saved the future\", create a group of five robots from the rubble to get revenge on her. The kid Dexter commands them to \"destroy the one who saved the future\" before sending them back to the past – unwittingly setting the whole series of events in motion himself.\n\nThe Dexters return to their original time periods. The kid Dexter returns shortly before he originally left, and sees himself fighting the robots he just built with his other selves. Realizing the time loop he has created (or rather that he has come back too far back to before he ever left), Dexter becomes confused when he attempts to wrap his head around it all but ultimately decides to ignore it and goes to eat a sandwich. When Dee Dee – who had already used the time machine to return home after saving the future – shows up, Dexter gathers up his food and walks away, still angry. Unaware of what she did, Dee Dee is left confused.\n\n\"Ego Trip\" first aired on Cartoon Network on December 10, 1999, and re-aired on New Year's Day 2000. The special was released on VHS & VCD in Region 1 on November 7, 2000, and VHS in Region 2 on July 23, 2001. The VHS also includes the episodes \"The Justice Friends: Krunk's Date\" and \"Dial M for Monkey: Rasslor\".\n\nIn the United Kingdom it aired on \"CITV\" on April 1, 2002.\n\nMarc Bernardin of \"Entertainment Weekly\" called \"Ego Trip\" \"drawn-out\", saying that \"Dexter's Laboratory\" does not do as well in an hour-long format as it does in normal television episodes. Christine Cavanaugh, the voice actor for Dexter, received an Annie Award in 2000 for the category \"Outstanding Individual Achievement for Voice Acting by a Female Performer in an Animated Television Production\" for her role in the movie.\n"}
{"id": "1844252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844252", "title": "Retting", "text": "Retting\n\nRetting is a process employing the action of micro-organisms and moisture on plants to dissolve or rot away much of the cellular tissues and pectins surrounding bast-fibre bundles, and so facilitating separation of the fibre from the stem. It is used in the production of fibre from plant materials such as flax and hemp stalks and coir from coconut husks. \n\nThe most widely practised method of retting, water retting, is performed by submerging bundles of stalks in water. The water, penetrating to the central stalk portion, swells the inner cells, bursting the outermost layer, thus increasing absorption of both moisture and decay-producing bacteria. Retting time must be carefully judged; under-retting makes separation difficult, and over-retting weakens the fibre. In double retting, a gentle process producing excellent fibre, the stalks are removed from the water before retting is completed, dried for several months, then retted again.\n\n\"Natural water retting\" employs stagnant or slow-moving waters, such as ponds, bogs, and slow streams and rivers. The stalk bundles are weighted down, usually with stones or wood, for about 8 to 14 days, depending upon water temperature and mineral content.\n\n\"Tank retting\", by contrast, employs vats usually made of concrete, requires about four to six days, and is feasible in any season. In the first six to eight hours, called the leaching period, much of the dirt and colouring matter is removed by the water, which is usually changed to assure clean fibre. Waste retting water, which requires treatment to reduce harmful toxic elements before its release, is rich in plant minerals, such as nitrates, and can be used as liquid fertilizer.\n\nThis is a common method in areas with limited water resources. It is most effective in climates with heavy night time dews and warm daytime temperatures. The harvested plant stalks are spread evenly in grassy fields, where the combined action of bacteria, sun, air, and dew produces fermentation, dissolving much of the stem material surrounding the fibre bundles. Within two to three weeks, depending upon climatic conditions, the fibre can be separated. Dew-retted fibre is generally darker in color and of poorer quality than water-retted fibre.\n\nThe retted stalks, called straw, are dried in open air or by mechanical means, and are frequently stored for a short period to allow \"curing\" to occur, facilitating fibre removal. Final separation of the fibre is accomplished by a breaking process in which the brittle woody portion of the straw is broken, either by hand or by passing through rollers, followed by the scutching operation, which removes the broken woody pieces (shives) by beating or scraping. Some machines combine breaking and scutching operations. Waste material from the first scutching, consisting of shives and short fibres, is usually treated a second time. The short fibre or tow thus obtained is frequently used in paper manufacture, and the shives may serve as fuel to heat the retting water or may be made into wallboard and to make rope.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1844256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844256", "title": "Farah River", "text": "Farah River\n\nThe Farah River (; ) is a river in western Afghanistan. The river originates in the Band-e Bayan Range in the eastern part of Ghor Province, and flows for 560 km to the Helmand swamps on the Afghanistan-Iran border. The city of Farah is located on the river, where in the dry season, it has a width of around 140 metres and a depth of around 60 cm. The lower valley of the Farah Rud is fertile and well cultivated.\n"}
{"id": "1844264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844264", "title": "Fen River", "text": "Fen River\n\nThe Fen River drains the center of Shanxi Province, China. It rises in the Guancen Mountains of Ningwu County in northeast Shanxi, flows southeast into the basin of Taiyuan, and then south through the central valley of Shanxi before turning west to join the Yellow River west of Hejin. The Fen and the Wei Rivers are the two largest tributaries of the Yellow River. The river is long and drains an area of , 25.3% of Shanxi's area. The Fen River is the longest in Shanxi. It is also the second-longest tributary of the Yellow River. Within Taiyuan, the Fen runs from north to south; the prefecture includes one-seventh of the river's course.\n\nThe Fen is usually identified with the said by Sima Qian and others to have flowed beside the home of the Yellow Emperor. The \"Discourses of the States\" states that the Ji was the home of the Yellow Emperor's clan before he fought the clan of Yandi (the \"Flame Emperor\"). Its name is identical with the surname of the royal family under the Zhou. Pulleybank argues, however, that the supposed \"Ji River\" could be a later invention as \"there seems to be no record of a Ji River outside the myth\" of the Yellow Emperor.\n\nThe lower Fen was part of the core area of ancient China and held the capital of the state of Jin near Houma. The river nurtured the 2500-year-old Sanjin Civilization and has since been called the \"Mother River of People\" in Shanxi.\n\nIn Taiyuan, the Fen River valley area has fertile water resource; for this reason, the Fen area has become the economic center of Shanxi province. There are two valleys of the south region of further south. One of the valleys is the Fen River valley, it had led to the Yellow River. The second valley is the Su River, which was along the north edge of Zhongtiao Mountain; and it was forming another triangular basin. The Fen River valley offered different routes of communication in Wei River valley, that both routes were open to the either side of the Yellow River.\n\nModern cities on or near the Fen from north to south are: Taiyuan, Linfen, Houma, Hejin. Fenyang, although named after the river, is actually some 20-plus km to the west of it.\n\nAs with any river that flows through a city, the Fen River added extra charm to the city of Taiyuan. The construction of dams upstream, however, reduced the once-abundant flow of the river to a mere trickle, and the river bed went dry. From 1949, Chinese government built the reservoirs such as Fen River, Wenyu River, Hui River, and several other reservoirs on the tributaries of the Fen River, which ensured Taiyuan city and other cities’ industrial water, and enlarged Taiyuan basin and Linfen basin's irrigation. Before the 1950s, Fen River valley's flood areas is 13.34 ten thousand hectares, saline-alkali soil is 6.67 ten thousand hectares. Today, due to the influence of the water conservancy facilities, the water logging is almost inexistence, huge areas of saline-alkali soil are reformed.\n\nIn the 1990s, the municipal government of Taiyuan built artificial and removable structures across the river at different locations to create reservoirs of water for landscaping purposes. The surface area of these reservoirs amounts to 1.7 million square meters and, along with newly created vegetation of 1.3 million square meters on the banks, forms the 6-kilometer long Fen River Park. The vegetation consist of 183 species trees, shrubs and other green plants.\n\nThe No. 1 Fen River reservoir, built in 1960, is the biggest artificial reservoir in Shanxi province; it is also the scenic spot in the province. The length from south to north is 15 kilometers, the width is 5 kilometers, the total area is 32 square kilometers, and the capacity of reservoir is 720 million cubic meters. In 2000, the No. 2 Fen River Reservoir was built about 50 kilometers downstream the No. 1 Fen River Reservoir. The pollution of Fen River reservoir has become a serious problem. Because of the rise of population and the development of economy, the industrial, domestic, and other kinds of pollution have been on the rise. Great quantities of sewage are indiscriminately discharged into the riverbed downstream of the No. 1 and 2 reservoirs. However, the government is trying to fix the problem.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1844265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844265", "title": "Birbal Sahni", "text": "Birbal Sahni\n\nBirbal Sahni FRS (14 November 1891 – 10 April 1949) was an Indian paleobotanist who studied the fossils of the Indian subcontinent. He also took an interest in geology and archaeology. He founded what is now the Birbal Sahni Institute of Palaeobotany at Lucknow in 1946. His major contributions were in the study of the fossil plants of India and in plant evolution. He was also involved in the establishment of Indian science education and served as the President of the National Academy of Sciences, India and as an Honorary President of the International Botanical Congress, Stockholm.\n\nBirbal Sahni was born in Bhera, Shahpur District, in today's Pakistani Punjab, on 14 November 1891. He was the third child of Ishwar Devi and the pioneer Indian meteorologist and scientist Lala Ruchi Ram Sahni who lived in Lahore. The family came from Dera Ismail Khan and they frequently made visits to Bhera which was close to the Salt Range and Khewra's geology may have interested Birbal at a young age. Birbal was also influenced into science by his grandfather who owned a banking business at Dera Ismail Khan and conducted amateur research in chemistry. Ruchi Ram was a professor of chemistry at Lahore and was also a social activist with an interest in the emancipation of women. Ruchi Ram had studied at Manchester and worked with Ernest Rutherford and Niels Bohr. Every summer, Ruchi Ram would take his sons on long treks in the Himalayas, visiting Pathankot, Rohtang,Narkanda, Chini Pass, Amarnath, Machoi Glacier and Jozila Pass between 1907 and 1911. Ruchi Ram was involved in the non-co-operation movement since the Jallianwala Bagh massacre as well as the Brahmo Samaj movement. The proximity of their house to Bradlaugh Hall made their home a centre of political activity and house guests included Motilal Nehru, Gopal Krishna Gokhale, Sarojini Naidu, and Madan Mohan Malaviya. Birbal Sahni received his early education in India at the Mission and Central Model School Lahore, Government College University, Lahore (where his father worked, receiving a B.Sc. in 1911) and Punjab University. The family library included books in science, literary classics and he learnt botany under Shiv Ram Kashyap (1882-1934), the \"father of Indian bryology\" and travelled with Kashyap to Chamba, Leh, Baltal, Uri, Poonch and Gulmarg between 1920 and 1923. He followed his brothers to England and graduated from Emmanuel College, Cambridge in 1914. He later studied under Albert Charles Seward, and was awarded the D.Sc. degree of the University of London in 1919.\n\nDuring his stint in England, Sahni joined Professor Seward to work on a \"Revision of Indian Gondwana plants\" (1920, Palaeontologica Indica). In 1919 he briefly worked in Munich with the German plant morphologist Karl Ritter von Goebel. \n\nIn 1920 he married Savitri Suri, daughter of Sunder Das Suri an Inspector of Schools in Punjab. Savitri took an interest in his work and was a constant companion. Sahni returned to India and served as Professor of Botany at Banaras Hindu University, Varanasi and Punjab University for about a year. He was appointed the first Professor and Head of the Botany Department of the Lucknow University in 1921, a position he retained until his death. The University of Cambridge awarded him the degree of Sc. D. in 1929. \n\nIn 1932 \"Palaeontologica Indica\" included his account of the Bennettitalean plant that he named \"Williamsonia sewardi\", and another description of a new type of petrified wood, \"Homoxylon\", bearing resemblance to the wood of a living homoxylous angiosperm, but from the Jurassic age. During the following years he not only continued his investigations but collected around him a group of devoted students from all parts of the country and built up a reputation for the University which soon became the first Center for botanical and palaeobotanical investigations in India. Sahni maintained close relations with researchers around the globe, being a friend of Chester A. Arnold, noted American paleobotanist who later served his year in residence from 1958–1959 at the institute. He was a founder of \"The Paleobotanical Society\" which established the Institute of Palaeobotany on 10 September 1946 which initially functioned in the Botany Department of Lucknow University but later moved to its present premises at 53 University Road, Lucknow in 1949. On 3 April 1949 the Prime Minister of India Jawaharlal Nehru laid the foundation stone of the new building of the Institute. A week later, on 10 April 1949, Sahni succumbed to a heart attack.\n\nSahni worked on living plants species including \"Nephrolepsis\", \"Niphobolus\", \"Taxus\", \"Psilotum\", \"Tmesipteris\"\nand \"Acmopyle\" examining evolutionary trends and geographical distributions. His ability to apply theory to observations and make hypotheses based on observations were especially influential on his students. When examining wood remains from Harappa, he noted that they were of conifers and inferred that the people there must have had trade links with people in mountains where conifers could grow. He recorded foreign pollen in the ovules of living \"Ginkgo biloba\" and noted in the \"New Phytologist\" (1915), the problem with assuming that fossil pollen in ovules belonged to a single species. Sahni was among the first to suggest a separate order, the Taxales, within the conifers to contain the genera \"Taxus\", \"Torreya\" and \"Cephalotaxus\". Another major contribution was in the studies on the morphology of the Zygopteridaceae. Sahni identified \"Torreyites\", a close relative of \"Torreya\", which extended the range of the Taxales into Gondwanaland. He also described Glossopteris in detail and identified differences between the flora of India and Australia with that of China and Sumatra. He also studied the fossil plants of the Deccan Intertrappean beds. He suggested that the lower Narmada area around Nagpur and Chhindwara was coastal on the basis of fossils that showed a similarity to estuarine palms of the genus \"Nipa\". Based on the ecology of plants and the altitude of the fossil finds, he also attempted to estimate rates of uplift of the Himalayas.\n\nBirbal Sahni's work influenced his younger brother M.R. Sahni and his nephew Ashok Sahni to take up a career in paleontology.\n\nSahni was interested in music and could play the sitar and the violin. He was also interested in clay-modelling and in playing chess and tennis. At Oxford he used to play tennis for the Indian majlis. Other interests included geology, photography, archaeology and numismatics. In 1936 he examined some coins and moulds dating to 100 BC from a dig in Khokra Kot and wrote on the possible methods involved in the casting of the coins. The collection is now at the National Museum at New Delhi. He was much liked by his nieces and nephews who called him \"tamashewala uncle\" for entertaining them with a monkey-hand-puppet named Gippy.\n\nA full list of publications can be found in Appendix 3 of Gupta (1978). The following are a selection of Sahni's publications.\n\nSahni was recognised by several academies and institutions in India and abroad for his research. He was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society of London (FRS) in 1936, the highest British scientific honour, awarded for the first time to an Indian botanist. He was elected Vice-President, Palaeobotany section, of the 5th and 6th International Botanical Congresses of 1930 and 1935, respectively; General President of the Indian Science Congress for 1940; President, National Academy of Sciences, India, 1937–1939 and 1943–1944. In 1948 he was elected an Honorary Member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. Another high honour which came to him was his election as an Honorary President of the International Botanical Congress, Stockholm in 1950. For his work in numismatics he received the Nelson Wright Medal in 1945.\n\nMaulana Abul Kalam Azad, Minister of Education in 1947 offered the post of Secretary to the Ministry of Education to Sahni. This he reluctantly accepted.\n\nThe Birbal Sahni Gold Medal for students of botany was instituted in his memory. A bust of Sahni is placed in the Geological Survey of India in Calcutta.\n\n"}
{"id": "1844266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844266", "title": "Mustapa Mohamed", "text": "Mustapa Mohamed\n\nDato' Sri Mustapa bin Mohamed (Jawi: مصطفى بن محمد; born 25 September 1950), commonly known as \"Tok Pa\" among local Kelantanese, is a Malaysian politician, and currently serving as Minister of Economic Affairs since 10 March 2020. He is the incumbent Member of Parliament (MP) of Malaysia for the seat of Jeli in Kelantan, representing the Malaysian United Indigenous Party (BERSATU), a component of Perikatan Nasional (PN) coalition. He became a BERSATU member following his decision to quit United Malays National Organisation (UMNO) on 18 September 2018.\n\nMustapa is an economist. He graduated from the University of Melbourne, Australia, with a First Class Honours degree in Economics and from Boston University with a Masters in Economic Development.\n\nHe is married to Khamarzan Ahmad Meah and the couple has four children.\n\nMustapa was elected to Parliament in the 1995 election for Jeli constituency, but was defeated for re-election in 1999. He won back the seat in the 2004 election. In 2004 he was also elected to the Kelantan State Legislative Assembly for the Air Lanas seat. He had been slated to become Chief Minister of Kelantan but BN failed to win a majority in the state Assembly. He was re-elected in 2008 election. In 2004 election, he retained his parliamentary seat and again won the state seat of Air Lanas concurrently but with a slim 47 votes.\n\nMustapa was the former Minister for International Trade and Industry in the BN federal government. Previously, he has also held a number of other government portfolios, including Deputy Finance Minister, Minister for Entrepreneur Development, Minister in the Prime Minister's Department, Minister for Higher Education, and Minister for Agriculture and Agro-based Industry. He was appointed to the Trade portfolio when Najib Razak became Prime Minister in April 2009.\n\nIn the aftermath of BN's loss in the 2018 election and UMNO's own party election, Mustapa announced on 18 September 2018 that he has quit UMNO, citing disagreements with the party's current direction. On the 27 October 2018, Mustapa joined BERSATU.\n\nOn 4 December 2018, Mustapa was elected chair of the Budget Select Committee.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1844269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844269", "title": "Timm Rosenbach", "text": "Timm Rosenbach\n\nTimm Lane Rosenbach (born October 27, 1966) is an American college football coach and former professional gridiron football player. Rosenbach was the head football coach at Adams State University in Alamosa, Colorado, taking the position at the Division II school in December 2014 and remaining there until he resigned in December 2017. He played from 1989 until 1995 in the National Football League (NFL) and the Canadian Football League (CFL). Rosenbach attended Washington State University and was selected in the first round of the 1989 NFL supplemental draft.\n\nRosenbach became a coach after his retirement from the NFL, and he was hired in 1999 by NAIA school St. Ambrose University to be its quarterbacks coach. He has since gone on to work at other schools, including spending four years at his alma mater as its quarterbacks coach.\n\nBorn in Everett, Washington, Rosenbach's father Lynn was a high school and college football coach, and the family lived in a number of locations. While Lynn was an assistant coach for three seasons at the University of Montana in Missoula, Timm attended Hellgate High School for two years. Lynn was hired by the athletic department at Washington State University in 1983, and the family moved that summer to Pullman; Rosenbach attended Pullman High School for two years and graduated in 1985. Although a quarterback as a sophomore at Hellgate, he was a halfback during his first season in Pullman, then returned to quarterback for the Greyhounds as a senior. He was also nationally ranked in the javelin throw.\n\nAfter high school, Rosenbach played college football in Pullman for the hometown Washington State Cougars. He redshirted in 1985 and played three seasons, 1986 through 1988. Rosenbach led the nation in passing efficiency his junior year in 1988 under head coach Dennis Erickson. Following Erickson's departure after two seasons for Miami in early 1989, Rosenbach skipped his fifth-year senior season on the Palouse to enter the NFL supplemental draft. He finished seventh in the 1988 Heisman Trophy voting.\n\nHe is a 2005 graduate of Washington State University, which has produced several other NFL quarterbacks, including Jack Thompson, Mark Rypien, Drew Bledsoe, Ryan Leaf, Jason Gesser, Alex Brink, Jeff Tuel, Luke Falk, Gardner Minshew and Anthony Gordon.\n\nRosenbach was selected with the second pick of the 1989 NFL Supplemental Draft by the Phoenix Cardinals. After seeing spot duty his rookie year in 1989, he started all 16 games in 1990, taking every offensive snap for the Cardinals. He threw for 3,098 yards, 16 touchdowns, 17 interceptions, with a 54.2 completion percentage.\n\nRosenbach started one year for the team before injuries prematurely ended his career. He attempted a comeback with the Winnipeg Blue Bombers and Hamilton Tiger-Cats of the CFL and the New Orleans Saints of the NFL, but failed. Upon his return to the NFL, he signed with the New Orleans Saints, but had to miss the season because of a ruptured disc in his back. He also missed the 1991 season with the Cardinals because of a knee injury suffered in training camp.\n\nRosenbach was the quarterbacks coach at Washington State University from 2003 to 2007 under head coach Bill Doba. In February 2012, he was hired as the offensive coordinator and quarterbacks coach at the University of Montana, under head coach Robin Pflugrad, who was replaced by Mick Delaney prior to the start of the season.\n\nOn November 21, 2012, Rosenbach was named offensive coordinator at Weber State University. Less than two months later on January 16, University of Nevada, Las Vegas (UNLV )announced Rosenbach as the new offensive coordinator.\n\nOn December 22, 2014, Adams State University announced Rosenbach as the Grizzlies' new head coach. He resigned that position on December 6, 2017, and returned to Montana as offensive coordinator.\n\nRosenbach is married to former professional volleyball player Kim Exner. They have two daughters, born in 2007 and 2009.\nPrior to his final season at WSU, Rosenbach's father Lynn died at age 53 in \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1844276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844276", "title": "Flinders River", "text": "Flinders River\n\nThe Flinders River is the longest river in Queensland, Australia, at approximately . It was named in honour of the explorer Matthew Flinders. The catchment is sparsely populated and mostly undeveloped. The Flinders rises on the western slopes of the Great Dividing Range in North West Queensland and flows generally north-west through the Gulf Country, across a large, flat clay pan, before entering the Gulf of Carpentaria.\n\nThe River rises in the Burra Range, part of the Great Dividing Range, north-east of Hughenden and flows in a westerly direction past Hughenden, Richmond and Julia Creek, then north-west to the Gulf of Carpentaria west of . The catchment is bordered to the south by the Selwyn Range.\n\nAt in length, it is the eighth-longest river in Australia. The catchment covers . The primary land use in the catchment is grazing and other agriculture, the catchment covers 1.5% of the continent.\n\nA total of 36 tributaries flow into the Flinders, the principal ones being the Cloncurry, Saxby and the Corella rivers. Another major tributary is Porcupine Creek, which has carved out a dramatic gorge located in the Porcupine Gorge National Park. There are two dams on the river - the Flinders River Dam and Corella Dam. Other smaller tributaries include: Range Creek, Morepork Creek, Oxley Creek, Canterbury Creek, Dutton River, Back Valley Creek, L-Tree Creek, Gorman Creek, Hazlewood Creek, Nonda Creek, Eurimpy Creek, Yambore Creek, Bynoe River and Armstrong Creek. The river flows through one permanent waterhole, Flagstone waterhole.\n\nSeveral towns are located within the catchment including: McKinlay, Burke and Wills Junction, Hughenden, Richmond, Julia Creek and Cloncurry.\n\nThe river has a mean annual discharge of . The maximum flow recorded is .\n\nThe riverbed is composed of silt with clay and sand, sand and gravel, and gravel with cobble. A large, flat clay pan is located in the area where the Flinders, Gregory and Leichhardt Rivers enter the Gulf. The mouth of the river lies in the Gulf Plains Important Bird Area.\n\nIn 2015, the population living within the catchment was 6,600.\n\nVegetation along the river in the upper catchment includes riparian woodlands composed of paperbarks including; \"Melaleuca argentea\", \"Melaleuca bracteata\" and \"Melaleuca fluviatilis\" and sub-dominant eucalypts including River Red Gum, Coolabah, with minor Bauhinia. Other species found include the wattle. Infestations of weeds such as Prickly acacia, Noogoora burr, Rubber vine and Chonky apple are also found. The understorey is dominated by a closed cover of riparian grasses including native couch on the sandy loams adjacent the stream channels.\n\nThe traditional owners of the area are the Kalkadoon, Mitakoodi, Kukatj, Guthaarn, Mayi-Yapi, Mayi-Kulan, Mayi-Thakurti, Ngawun, Wanamara, Mbara, Yirandali and Gugu-Badhun peoples, who have inhabited the area for thousands of years.\n\n\"Jirandali\" (also known as \"Yirandali\", \"Warungu\", and \"Yirandhali\") is an Australian Aboriginal language of North-West Queensland, particularly the Hughenden area. The language region includes the local government area of the Shire of Flinders, including Dutton River, Flinders River, Mount Sturgeon, Caledonia, Richmond, Corfield, Winton, Torrens, Tower Hill, Landsborough Creek, Lammermoor, Hughenden, and Tangorin.\n\n\"Wanamarra\" (also known as \"Maykulan\" and \"Wunumura\") is an Australian Aboriginal language in North West Queensland. The language region includes areas within the Shire of McKinlay, Shire of Cloncurry and Shire of Richmond, including the Flinders River area, and the towns of Kynuna and Richmond.\n\nDalleburra (also known as Dalebura, Dal-leyburra, Yirandali) is a language of North-West Queensland, particularly Lammermoor Station via Hughenden. The Dalleburra language region includes the local government boundaries of the Flinders Shire Council.\n\nThe Flinders River was named in 1841 by Captain Wickham and Lieutenant John Lort Stokes of , in honour of the explorer Matthew Flinders. Stokes charted and surveyed the estuary of the Flinders and Albert rivers, and named many other features in the area, including Disaster Inlet, Morning Inlet and the Van Diemen River.\n\nRobert O'Hara Burke, William John Wills and Charles Gray reached the river delta in 1861, completing the goal of their expedition to cross the continent from south to north. Gray died on the journey back to Cooper Creek, and both Burke and Wills died after reaching the creek to find their depot abandoned.\n\nThe first pastoralist to stock country along the Flinders was James Gibson who established Prairie Station in 1861. In 1864 more cattle stations were established by Gibson including Millungera and Taldora Stations.\n\nMassive flooding occurred along the river in July 1870. One station lost over 4,000 sheep and roads were cut. In 1917 even larger floods were recorded, with Hughenden inundated several people drowned. More heavy flooding occurred in 1955, 1960, 1974, 1991 and 2000.\n\nIn 2003, licences to take water from the river were first released when a pastoralist, Corbett Tritton, applied for an irrigation licence. He successfully grew crops like sorghum and cotton on his cattle station and soon other graziers were interested. A moratorium on the issuing of licences followed, but was lifted in 2013.\n\nHeavy rainfall in Queensland in early 2019 resulted in major flooding along the Flinders, considered the worst in half a century. The broad flood plain has allowed the Flinders to stretch as wide as 60 km. The rising water also caused devastation to farmers with heavy losses to cattle herds.\n\n"}
{"id": "1844279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844279", "title": "Ed Orgeron", "text": "Ed Orgeron\n\nEdward James Orgeron Jr. (; born July 27, 1961) is an American football coach and former player. He is the head football coach at Louisiana State University (LSU), a position he has held since midway through the 2016 season. Orgeron previously served as the head football coach at the University of Mississippi (Ole Miss) from 2005 to 2007 and was the interim head coach at the University of Southern California (USC) in 2013. He led the 2019 LSU Tigers football team to a national championship, beating Clemson in the 2020 College Football Playoff National Championship. \n\nOrgeron played college football as a defensive lineman at LSU and Northwestern State University. \n\nBorn to Edward \"Ba Ba\" Orgeron Sr. (d. 2011) and Cornelia \"Co Co\" Orgeron on July 27, 1961, Ed and his brother Steve grew up in Larose, a town on the Bayou Lafourche in Lafourche Parish, Louisiana. He is of Cajun descent. Orgeron attended South Lafourche High School in Galliano, Louisiana with future Michigan Panthers, New Orleans Saints, and Atlanta Falcons quarterback Bobby Hebert. Orgeron and Hebert played on the school's Class 4A state championship team in 1977. Orgeron signed to play football at Louisiana State University, but left the program after his first year to transfer to Northwestern State University in Natchitoches, Louisiana.\n\nOrgeron began coaching in 1984 as a graduate assistant at Northwestern State and the following year coached at McNeese State in Lake Charles, Louisiana. He then served two years as an assistant strength coach under Ken Hatfield at the University of Arkansas. In 1988, he began his tenure with the University of Miami, under then-head coach Jimmy Johnson and his successor, Dennis Erickson. He was their defensive line coach for four of those years, in which he coached eight All-Americans (including NFL first-round draft choices Cortez Kennedy, Russell Maryland and Warren Sapp). While he was with the Hurricanes, the program won two national championships (in 1989 and 1991), and he recruited a young Dwayne Johnson (later known as \"The Rock\" in his professional wrestling and film careers) as a defensive lineman.\n\nStarting in 1991, a series of personal problems began to surface for Orgeron: a local woman filed a restraining order against Orgeron, accusing him of repeatedly attacking her. In July 1992, Orgeron was arrested for his part in a bar fight in Baton Rouge, Louisiana; Orgeron acknowledged he had been intoxicated that night and had grown angry when not allowed back inside to retrieve his credit card. In October 1992, Orgeron took a leave of absence from the University of Miami coaching staff for personal reasons; the departure turned out to be a permanent one, however, and he was replaced by assistant coach Randy Shannon. Taking a respite from coaching, Orgeron worked on his personal life: the permanent injunction against him was eventually rescinded, and the felony second-degree battery charges he faced were dropped. He stayed with his parents in Larose, crediting his father for helping him get his life in order.\n\nOrgeron returned to coaching in 1994, but as a volunteer linebackers coach at Nicholls State University. The following year, he moved from the south to the northeastern U.S., accepting a job with head coach Paul Pasqualoni's staff at Syracuse University, where he coached the defensive line for three years. Orgeron credited Pasqualoni for giving him a second chance at major-college coaching (after his prior personal issues had damaged his 'hireability'), and helping him develop as a coach on and off the field.\n\nIn 1998, Orgeron was hired by offensive guru Paul Hackett, the newly hired head coach of USC (the University of Southern California), to coach the Trojans defensive line. After Hackett's 2000 firing, Orgeron was one of a handful of coaches retained by Hackett's replacement, Pete Carroll, a defensive specialist. The two had met during a high school football game when Carroll was still only a candidate for the head coach position, and connected over their shared passion for recruiting. During the Carroll years, USC enjoyed much success, including two (Associated Press) National Championships. Orgeron took on the added responsibility of Recruiting Coordinator in 2001, and was named assistant head coach in 2003. Orgeron won National Recruiter of the Year honors in 2004, the same year he was hired by Ole Miss to replace head coach David Cutcliffe.\n\nUpon arriving at Ole Miss, Orgeron attempted to bring USC's passing game coordinator, Lane Kiffin, with him as the new offensive coordinator, but Kiffin opted to stay with the Trojans.\n\nEntering the 2005 season, Orgeron had hoped to bring a USC-style offense to the Southeastern Conference (SEC), but found limited success. The University of Mississippi's offense finished the season ranked 111th out of 117 Division I-A schools, in total offense; 115th in scoring; and, 116th in rushing. Orgeron's defensive experience, along with returning linebacker Patrick Willis, helped the Rebel defense in 2005, but as a result of the offensive woes, the 2005 team struggled and finished the season with a record of three wins and eight losses—the Rebels' worst record since 1987.\n\nIn response to the results of his first season, Orgeron fired offensive coordinator Noel Mazzone, replacing him with former University of Miami offensive coordinator Dan Werner. Also, Orgeron hired Art Kehoe, the longtime offensive line coach at the University of Miami; both assistants had just been fired by the University of Miami. In 2006, Ole Miss finished the season ranked #108 in scoring offense, #111 in total offense, and #112 in passing offense.\n\nOrgeron's second recruiting class in February 2006 was successful, acquiring the written pledges of a national Top 15 signing class. He followed that with the 32nd ranked recruiting class in February 2007.\n\nAt Ole Miss, Orgeron recorded only two wins against teams with winning records (the 2005 and 2007 Memphis teams, which both finished at 7–5)—the fewest among active SEC coaches at the time. Until the 2007 season, he enjoyed the public support of The University of Mississippi's chancellor Robert Khayat and other administrators with oversight of the football program, including Athletic Director Pete Boone. In a November 2006 article in \"The Clarion-Ledger\", Khayat said of Orgeron and the poor win/loss record since he was hired (7–14, at the time of the interview), \"I think Coach Orgeron inherited a very difficult situation...I am 100 percent behind him, and I think that people ought to understand that he has a big challenge.\"\n\nIn 2007, Ole Miss finished the season 0–8 against fellow SEC teams, and 3–9 overall. It was the program's first winless (conference) season since 1982.\n\nOn November 24, 2007, after Ole Miss blew a 14-point fourth-quarter lead to in-state rival Mississippi State in the season finale, Orgeron was fired. He was replaced by former University of Arkansas head coach Houston Nutt (who had resigned from the Arkansas program three days after Orgeron's firing).\n\nOn January 23, 2008, it was announced that Orgeron had been hired as the new defensive line coach of the National Football League's New Orleans Saints.\n\nOn December 31, 2008, Orgeron accepted a position with the University of Tennessee under its new head coach: former USC assistant-coach colleague Lane Kiffin. He worked as associate head coach, recruiting coordinator, and defensive line coach.\n\nOrgeron returned to USC's assistant coaching staff on January 12, 2010, after Kiffin resigned from the University of Tennessee without notice to accept the USC head coach position vacated by Pete Carroll (who had returned to head coaching in the NFL). Orgeron was one of the highest paid assistant coaches in the Pac-12 Conference, with an annual salary of $650,000.\n\nIt was announced on September 29, 2013—after Lane Kiffin's firing—that Orgeron would be the interim head coach of the Trojans for the rest of the 2013 season, until athletic director Pat Haden found a permanent replacement.\n\nAfter his experience at Ole Miss, Orgeron decided to approach his second stint as a head coach differently. Instead of resuming the intense aggressiveness he had used as a defensive line and head coach, he used a different approach this time. Orgeron applied behavioral techniques he had used on his own teenage children, in an effort to approach his USC players \"like my sons\".\n\nAfter receiving much praise for their upset win at home over highly ranked Stanford, the Trojans suffered a humiliating 35–14 defeat to cross-town-rivals UCLA—for the second year in a row—on November 30, 2013. This greatly threatened Orgeron's chances of winning the permanent head coach position. The Trojans were 6–2 under Orgeron, finishing the regular season with a 9–4 record. On December 2, 2013, ESPN reported that another former USC assistant coach under Pete Carroll—Washington head coach Steve Sarkisian—had accepted USC's offer to become the next Trojans head coach. After Orgeron was passed over for the job, he resigned.\n\nOn January 14, 2015, Orgeron was hired as the defensive line coach at Louisiana State University (LSU).\n\nOn September 25, 2016, after LSU head coach Les Miles was fired following a loss to Auburn, Orgeron was named the team's interim head coach.\n\nOrgeron stated that he was going to \"flip the script\". He promoted tight ends coach Steve Ensminger to offensive coordinator and brought back Pete Jenkins to take over as defensive line coach. Orgeron also decided to shorten practices and spend more time in the film room in order to keep players fresh. In addition, he brought the \"theme of daily practices\" he modeled from coach Pete Carroll during Orgeron's first stint as an assistant at USC. These practice days have descriptive nicknames like Tell the Truth Monday, Competition Tuesday, Turnover Wednesday, No Repeat Thursday, and Focus Friday.\n\nUnder Orgeron's watch, LSU finished out the season with a 6–2 record. On November 26, 2016, LSU removed the \"interim\" tag from Orgeron's title and formally named him as its 32nd full-time head coach.\n\nThe beginning of the 2017 season saw Orgeron hire Matt Canada to be the offensive coordinator. Canada was known for an offensive playbook that was heavily based on setting skilled positions in motion prior to the snap, thus using jet sweeps often. The season began with LSU ranked in the top 15, but early losses to Mississippi State and Troy quickly found LSU unranked. However, the team went 7–2 in their remaining games, finishing the year with a 9–4 record.\n\nThe 2018 season began with a season opening upset of 8th-ranked Miami, followed by another upset of 7th-ranked Auburn. These victories helped LSU rise to 5th in the CFP rankings, but a loss to 25th-ranked Florida sent LSU tumbling back to 13th. In response, the Tigers pulled off a shocking upset of #2 Georgia followed by avenging the previous year's loss to Mississippi State. The victories over Georgia and Mississippi State propelled LSU to being ranked #3 by the CFP going into a game against top-ranked Alabama. The LSU offense that had seemed to turn around after Steve Ensminger took over the duties of offensive coordinator was unable to score against Alabama's defense. After the loss to Alabama, LSU was able to defeat Arkansas and Rice before falling to Texas A&M in a 7-overtime game. With a 9–3 record, LSU was invited to the Fiesta Bowl to play the University of Central Florida, who had not lost a game in the previous two seasons. On New Years Day 2019, LSU gave UCF their first loss since 2016. LSU finished the 2018 season with a record of 10–3 and were ranked sixth in the nation by the AP poll and seventh by the Coaches poll. LSU was not predicted to have a good season in 2018, and some, including respected SEC commentator Paul Finebaum, believed it would be Orgeron's last. However, the successful season earned Orgeron a contract extension through the 2022 season.\nAfter opening with a home win versus Georgia Southern, Orgeron's 2019 team recorded a statement road win over Texas in week two and proceeded to go undefeated through the regular season, including a 46–41 victory over Alabama at Bryant-Denny Stadium in Tuscaloosa. A win over Arkansas in the penultimate game of the regular season clinched the SEC West division title and secured a berth in the 2019 SEC Championship Game against Georgia. This was their first appearance in the SEC Championship Game since 2011. The traditionally defensive-minded Tigers averaged over 48 points per game, led by quarterback Joe Burrow and Baton Rouge-native running back Clyde Edwards-Helaire. Burrow set new LSU and SEC single-season records for passing yards with 4,366; his 44 touchdown passes set a new LSU record and tied the SEC mark. Orgeron's Tigers defeated the Georgia Bulldogs in the SEC Championship Game to win their first SEC title since 2011. On Sunday, December 8, 2019, they were named the No. 1 seed in the College Football Playoff. They met the Big XII conference champion, Oklahoma Sooners, in the semifinals in the Peach Bowl, defeating them by a score of 63-28. \n\nFollowing the regular season, Orgeron was named the winner of the 2019 AP College Football Coach of the Year Award and Home Depot Coach of the Year Award. On January 13th, 2020, Coach Orgeron won his first national championship as a head coach with a win over the unbeaten defending national champion, Clemson Tigers, 42-25, finishing the season 15-0. Orgeron and the LSU Tigers won the national title in their home state at the Mercedes-Benz Superdome in New Orleans.\n\nOrgeron appears as himself in the 2009 film \"The Blind Side\" as Mississippi's head coach, recruiting Michael Oher. In 2005, Orgeron had won an intense recruiting battle for Oher. Director John Lee Hancock contacted Orgeron about playing himself, despite having been fired by Ole Miss prior to the filming of the movie; Orgeron agreed and impressed the filmmaker with his enthusiasm.\n\nIn 2006, Bruce Feldman, then a senior writer at \"ESPN The Magazine\", was allowed in-depth access to the Ole Miss program for a book about the recruiting process at a big-time college football program. The result was 2007's \"Meat Market: Inside the Smash-Mouth World of College Football Recruiting\", a book filled with anecdotes about Orgeron, which \"The New York Times\" described as \"one of the most insightful books ever written about college football.\"\n\nHe is also a recurring guest on the podcast Pardon My Take.\n\nOrgeron is known for his strong, gravelly, Cajun-accented voice, and intensity while coaching. In 2006, during his time at Ole Miss, he was parodied in an internet video titled \"Colonel Reb is Cryin'\".\n\nOrgeron was previously married to Colleen Orgeron. He met his second wife, Kelly, at the 1996 Liberty Bowl, and the couple have three boys. Upon returning to USC in 2010, Orgeron lived in a hotel across the street from the campus while his wife and children made their home in Louisiana. On February 26, 2020 Ed Orgeron and Kelly Orgeron filed for divorce.\n\n"}
{"id": "1844282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844282", "title": "Vital Remains", "text": "Vital Remains\n\nVital Remains is an American death metal band from Providence, Rhode Island, United States, formed in 1988.\n\nGuitarist Paul Flynn formed Vital Remains in 1988. Vital Remains' first line-up included Paul Flynn on lead guitar, Butch Machado on rhythm guitar, vocalist Mike Flynn, bassist Tom Supkow and drummer Chris Dupont. Mike Flynn is credited with coining the band's name. Paul soon revamped the band with musicians that fit his vision, and added Tony Lazaro and vocalist Jeff Gruslin to the line-up. Lazaro and Flynn shared the song writing duties, and released a pair of demos (1989's \"Reduced to Ashes\" and 1990's \"Excruciating Pain\"). The band secured a contract with French label Thrash Records, and released the single \"The Black Mass\" in 1991. Shortly after the release, the band signed to Peaceville's subsidiary label, Deaf Records. Vital Remains released \"Let Us Pray\" in 1992, as well as \"Into Cold Darkness\" in 1995. However, the band requested contract dissolution with Deaf Records, citing poor distribution, and a lack of promotion. In 1996, Dave Suzuki joined the band, initially playing drums. Suzuki eventually contributed guitar work, as the band worked on their next album. In mid 1997, Vital Remains signed a two-album deal with Osmose Records. Paul Flynn left the band, citing family obligations. The band released \"Forever Underground\" in 1997. Chris Ross from Cape Cod joined the band as the vocalist and Metal Maniacs said \"that no band on the planet put on a headbanging show of satanic fury than Vital Remains.\" The band released \"Dawn of the Apocalypse\" in 2000, which featured vocalist Thorn. The album debuted a new, heavier style. Thorn quit the band in 1999.\n\nIn 2003, Glen Benton, vocalist/bassist of Deicide joined Vital Remains as a session vocalist for Vital Remains' fifth album Dechristianize. The album received critical acclaim, and the band toured in-between Deicide's touring schedule. The band followed up with \"Icons of Evil\" in 2007, which also featured Glen Benton as a session vocalist and continued the same musical style as \"Dechristianize\". Vital Remains also released their first live DVD, \"Evil-Death-Live\", through Polish label Metal Mind Productions. Dave Suzuki left the band, shortly after the release of \"Icons of Evil\".\n\nVital Remains continued touring, but experienced frequent lineup changes. Tony Lazaro, bassist Gaeton \"Gator\" Collier and former Infernaeon vocalist Brian Werner are the band's most consistent members since 2012. Tony claimed in interviews during 2012-2013 that he has \"two albums worth of material.\"\n\nIn late 2014 and early 2015, the band added drummer James Payne (ex Hour of Penance), and Toronto-based Dean Arnold (of Primal Frost) as lead guitarist. Vital Remains toured South America, Europe and the United States in 2015. In November 2015, a Sanford Florida police officer was fired for singing \"Let the Killing Begin\" with the band, while he was on duty and in uniform. A video posted on YouTube shows Officer Andrew Ricks - in full uniform - making 'devil's horns' gesture and roaring the title words to the song.\n\nThree of the band's former vocalists died between 2017 and 2018. On July 4, 2017, Chris Ross was fatally shot by his brother-in-law, James Ball. On November 2, 2017, Scott Wiley was reported dead with no cause of death revealed, followed by Jake Raymond on June 25, 2018.\n\nOn September 2, 2019, Brian Werner announced his decision to leave Vital Remains via his social media channels. The announcement was confirmed by the band on their Facebook and also opened an audition call for a live vocalist to join the band in their upcoming U.S. winter tour, and also stated their intention to finish and release their long-awaited seventh studio album in 2020. In October 31, 2019, the band announced on their Facebook that Scott Eames would be the band's new lead vocalist for their 30th anniversary tour.\n\nVital Remains earlier work had minor use of keyboards and ambient noise. After \"Forever Underground\", they removed those elements for a purely death metal approach. Elements of their music that distinguish them in their genre are the use of acoustic Spanish-style solos and their construction of very long songs, which is uncommon in the majority of death metal music. Many of the songs on more recent releases approach eight or nine minutes in length. With the addition of Dave Suzuki to the band, the lead guitar work took a much more prominent place within song structure. He also chose to employ a neoclassical style of soloing.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1844287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844287", "title": "Tim Campbell (actor)", "text": "Tim Campbell (actor)\n\nTim Campbell (born 27 September 1975) is an Australian television and stage actor and singer, best known for playing the character of Dan Baker in the soap opera \"Home and Away\" between 2004 and 2008. In 2007, he came third series 6 of \"Dancing with the Stars\".\n\nIn 1993, Campbell appeared in two episodes of \"Home and Away\" as Brad. Throughout the 1990s, Campbell appeared in episodes of \"Heartbreak High\", \"Police Rescue\", \"The Day of the Roses\" and \"Wildside\". In 1999, he appeared in 13 episodes of \"Big Sky\" as Blake Wallace.\nSmaller roles continued throughout the early 2000s, until 2003 where he played Constable Stubbs in the children's television series, \"Snobs\". In 2004, Campbell was cast to play Dan Baker on \"Home and Away\", where he appeared in 287 episodes.\nCampbell was a contestant in series six of \"Dancing with the Stars\", which premiered on 20 February 2007. He ultimately placed third. He hosted National Bingo Night as well as the first season of travel series Discover Tasmania in 2007. Also in 2007, Campbell appeared as a contestant on \"Deal or No Deal: Dancing with the Deals\", in which he won $23,999 for a home viewer.\n\nIn 2008, Campbell hosted Million Dollar Wheel of Fortune which was short lived before replacing Joey Fatone on hosting \"The Singing Bee\" from 2008-2010.\n\nIn 2010, Campbell played Mr Doyle in 13 episodes of \"Dead Gorgeous\" and between 2012-2013, he played Tom on \"House Husbands\".Tom, with partner Kane (Gyton Grantley), are raising a child together, the first gay male couple with a child on an Australian prime time drama. On 14 December 2013, it was announced that Campbell had been written out of the show and would not return for the third season.\n\n\nCampbell released his debut studio album \"High School Disco\" on 4 April 2014.The album peaked at number 25 on the ARIA Charts. Campbell will release his second studio album, \"Electrifying 80s\" in July 2018.\n\nIn late 2007, rumours of Campbell dating singer Anthony Callea surfaced in the media. During an interview, Campbell confirmed that he is gay, but denied romantic involvement with Callea. However, on 11 February 2008, during an appearance on Vega 91.5's breakfast programme, Campbell acknowledged that he and Callea had now progressed to being \"an item\" stating that they were \"very happy\" together. The couple later thanked their fans for the support they were shown after their relationship was made public. On 18 August 2014, Campbell and Callea announced their engagement.\n\nOn 17 November 2014, they announced they had been married in a ceremony in New Zealand.\n\n"}
{"id": "1844288", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844288", "title": "Saira Khan", "text": "Saira Khan\n\nSaira Khan (born 15 May 1970) is a British television presenter. In 2005, she was the runner-up of \"The Apprentice\". From 2012 to 2017, Khan co-presented \"The Martin Lewis Money Show\" and in 2015, she presented the ITV series \"Guess This House\"., currently she runs a skincare business called Saira Skin, she also is a panelist on \"Loose Women\" and competed in \"Celebrity Big Brother 18\". In 2019, she competed in \"Dancing on Ice\".\n\nKhan was born in Long Eaton, Derbyshire to immigrants from Azad Kashmir, Pakistan. She belongs to a Mirpuri Sudhan family. In 2011, following a miscarriage and difficulties in trying to conceive a second child, Khan traveled to the Edhi Foundation Orphanage in Karachi, Pakistan, where she adopted her daughter Amara when she was 4 days old. Khan described her experience on \"Loose Women\" in 2018, and also documented the adoption process in a documentary on BBC Two, \"Adopting Abroad: Saira’s Story\".\n\nKhan has since become a regular face on British TV. In 2006, she presented \"Temper Your Temper\", a programme dealing with anger management. She has presented several documentaries for the BBC including \"Saira Khan's Pakistan Adventure\" in 2007 and \"Adopting Abroad, Saira's Story\" in 2011, as well as appearing as a guest on a variety of BBC and ITV shows such as \"Ready Steady Cook\" and \"Countdown\". She presented the CBBC show \"Trade Your Way to the USA\" and previously presented \"Beat the Boss\". She presented an edition of the BBC's \"Money Programme\" about entrepreneurial mothers.\n\nKhan has also contributed to radio notably to Radio 4's \"Woman's Hour\" and Radio 2's \"The Jeremy Vine Show\" as well as Radio 4's \"Any Questions?\"\n\nIn 2006, Khan set up a new campaign called OUR SAY to campaign for local and national referenda on issues of major public interest. Khan also runs her own baby-products business called Miamoo.\n\nShe has also written a self-help book, \"P.U.S.H. For Success\". From 2012 until 2017, she co-hosted \"The Martin Lewis Money Show\" alongside Martin Lewis but was replaced by Ranvir Singh. In 2015, she appeared with her son on \"Big Star's Little Star\" where they won £14,000 for charity. In 2015, she began hosting \"Guess This House\", a new daytime game show for ITV. The first series aired for 25x60 episodes. In September 2015, she became a regular panelist on \"Loose Women\". In 2015, she appeared on an episode of \"Pointless Celebrities\".\n\nIn July 2016, Khan entered the \"Celebrity Big Brother\" house and took part in the show's eighteenth series. On 9 August, she became the second housemate to be voted out of the Big Brother house. Khan took part in a celebrity edition of \"The Chase\", aired in July 2017, being knocked out in the first round by Mark Labbett. On 6 January 2018, Khan took part in \"And They're Off!\", where she placed fifth.\n\nIn 2019, Khan took part in the eleventh series of \"Dancing on Ice\", and finished in ninth place, alongside her professional partner Mark Hanretty.\n\nIn January 2013 and 2015, Khan was nominated for the Services to Media award at the British Muslim Awards.\n\n"}
{"id": "1844291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844291", "title": "Anawhata", "text": "Anawhata\n\nAnawhata is a beach on the coast of New Zealand west of Auckland.\n\nDistance from Auckland; 40 km (50 minute drive). To the south of Anawhata are Piha, Karekare and Whatipu. To the north is Te Henga (Bethells Beach) and Muriwai.\n\nIt is one of the least used beaches in the area because there is a long and unsealed road to reach it, and a steep track from there down to the beach.\n\nLocal iwi (tribe) Te Kawerau a Maki occupied this area for hundreds of years, and many settlements and fortifications were established.\n\nBy 1870 Europeans had established farms and timber mills. A 14 km tramway was built between Anawhata and Whatipu to transport Kauri logs.\n\nIt has no surf patrol, and as with all the beaches west of Auckland, swimming may not be safe due to rips.\n\nAs far back as 1966 the Auckland Tramping Club used the Anawhata stream for a day trip. Trampers were dropped off in the hills above the stream, and collected many hours later from the beach in an old bus.\n"}
{"id": "1844292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844292", "title": "Forçados River", "text": "Forçados River\n\nThe Forçados River is a channel in the Niger Delta, in southern Nigeria. It flows for approximately and meets the sea at the Bight of Benin in Delta State. It is an important channel for small ships. The Forçados River splits from the Niger River at the same point as the Nun River.\n\nPeople have been fishing on this river for years and then came to a dock on the Niger River to sell/store and use for personal consumption.\nIn the early years of the 20th century, Forçados was a destination port for steamers from England until the river silted up.\n"}
{"id": "1844293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844293", "title": "Fassett, Quebec", "text": "Fassett, Quebec\n\nFassett is a municipality and village in the Papineau Regional County Municipality in Quebec, Canada, located on the north shore of the Ottawa River east of Montebello.\n\nIts main access roads are Route 148, which passes through the town, and Autoroute 50 which passes to the north.\n\nThe area was part of the Petite-Nation Seigneury, formed in 1674 and originally owned by François de Laval, the first bishop of New France. The seigneury was acquired in 1803 by Joseph Papineau, who became its first civilian lord, and later sold it to his son Louis-Joseph Papineau.\n\nThe area became of interest economically when England was forced to rely on its colonies for wood for construction of its vessels during the Napoleonic blockade of 1807. It was full of oaks, pines, and maples regarding which Surveyor Joseph Bouchette wrote in 1815: \"the terrain rises and is covered with wood of the best species: oaks are of high quality and particularly of large size, suitable for the construction of vessels.\"\n\nIn 1815 the original mission of Notre Dame de Bonsecours was created and in 1821 a chapel dedicated to \"Notre-Dame de Bonsecours\" (Our Lady of Good Help) was constructed. On September 30, 1831, the bishop of Quebec Bernard-Claude Panet granted a petition signed by Denis-Benjamin Papineau and over 75 tenants for the formation of a parish. His decree called the new parish Notre-Dame-de-Bonsecours-de-la-Petite-Nation and also recommended the people of Bonsecours to acquire civil recognition from the Governor General of Canada, Lord Aylmer.\n\nOn June 18, 1845, the Governor General of the Province of Canada, Charles Metcalfe, established local and municipal authorities in Lower Canada, under a new law passed by the provincial Parliament. One of the new municipalities created was the Municipality of Petite-Nation, which included the Parish of Notre-Dame-de-Bonsecours-de-la-Petite-Nation. However, this municipality was abolished in 1847.\n\nOn July 1, 1855, a new statute of the Province of Canada came into force, which allowed the parish to get official civilian recognition, known as Parish Municipality of Notre-Dame-de-Bon-Secours-de-la-Petite-Nation.\n\nOn August 22, 1878, Montebello separated from the parish municipality.\n\nIn the 1870s, the Quebec, Montreal, Ottawa and Occidental Railway was built, connecting Montreal to Ottawa. The rail-line went through the municipality of Notre-Dame, in what is now Fassett. The Canadian Pacific Railway bought the line in 1882.\n\nIn the late 1890s, there was a dispute between the municipality of Notre-Dame-de-Bonsecours and the Canadian Pacific Railway, which resulted in a court case that went all the way to the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council in Britain, the highest court of appeal for the British Empire. A ditch beside the rail-line had become clogged, resulting in flooding on the neighbouring land, owned by Julien Gervais. The municipality issued an order to the CPR, directing it to clean the obstruction. The CPR refused, arguing that as a federally incorporated railway, it was not required to comply with provincial law. The Quebec courts held that the provincial law did apply, and the CPR appealed to the Judicial Committee. In 1899, the Judicial Committee ruled in favour of the municipality and upheld the order to clean the ditch, in the case known as \"Canadian Pacific Railway Co. v Notre Dame de Bonsecours\". The decision of the Judicial Committee continues to be cited with approval by the Supreme Court of Canada.\n\nIn the early 20th centre, the Canadian Pacific Railway built a small station here, and in 1906, the Thomas family, a post office. Both were named Fassett in honour of Jacob Sloat Fassett, President from 1904 until his death in 1924, of the Haskell Lumber Company renamed Fassett Lumber Company in 1910. Fassett was a lawyer and congressman from Elmira, New York who spent summers in a large beach estate he had built in Falmouth, Massachusetts on what is today known as Fassett's Point at the end of Little Island Road.\n\nIn 1913, the parish of Saint-Fidèle de Fassett was formed out of the Notre-Dame-de-Bonsecours Parish, and in 1918, the municipality split along these parish boundaries. The large rural and forested area became the Parish Municipality of Notre-Dame-de-Bon-Secours-Partie-Nord (which became the Municipality of Notre-Dame-de-Bonsecours in 2003). In 1951, the Parish Municipality of Notre-Dame-de-Bon-Secours became the Municipality of Fassett, named after the Fassett Lumber Company.\n\nMother tongue:\n\n"}
{"id": "1844295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844295", "title": "Adopt-A-Minefield", "text": "Adopt-A-Minefield\n\nAdopt-A-Minefield is a United Kingdom-based charity which raises awareness about landmines and their associated problems, and raises funds to clear minefields and help survivors of landmine accidents. It has raised over $17 million (approximately £9.5 million) since it was established in the 1990s, enabling it to clear minefields in 126 villages in Afghanistan, Angola, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Cambodia, Croatia, Iraq, Laos, Mozambique and Vietnam. No More Landmines is a partner organization. \n\nHowever according to current records of the UK Charity Commission, The No More Landmines Trust Number 1110770 which has the working name of Adopt-A-Minefield was registered with them on 8 August 2008 and was removed on 20 January 2015 and marked as Ceased to Exist. There is no active website for either named organisation although there is information on line of many organisations that remove mines.\n\nIn 2006 Heather Mills, the ex-wife of Sir Paul McCartney pledged to give a \"large majority\" of her £24.3 million divorce payment to the Adopt-A-Minefield organization.\n\nAdopt-A-Minefield was established by UNA Trust, a body associated with the United Nations Association UK. Mills and McCartney are its patrons. Other supporters include Twiggy and David Knopfler.\n\nGala fund-raising events were produced from 2001 to 2005 at hotels in Century City and Beverly Hills, California with a diverse array of guest speakers in the landmine activist community from all around the world. The evenings concluded with dynamic performances by Sir Paul McCartney and his band, special musical guests, and was hosted by comedian and 'Tonight Show' host Jay Leno. There were historical moments where Paul performed with his special guests Paul Simon (2001), Brian Wilson (2002), James Taylor (2003), Neil Young (2004), and Tony Bennett (2005). Some events also took place in Europe that featured performances of Paul with Yusuf Islam and Robin Gibb of the Bee Gees.\n\n'Night of A Thousand Dinners' consisted of a variety of popular fund-raising events around the world including dinners in private homes and restaurants in New York City and London and a live music event in a local nightclub in Indianapolis, Indiana that featured a speaker from the Office of Weapons Removal and Abatement at the State Department in Washington, D.C. and a performance by a music artist who had once played in a band with guitarist Jimi Hendrix.\n\n"}
{"id": "1844297", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844297", "title": "Video astronomy", "text": "Video astronomy\n\nVideo astronomy is a branch of astronomy for near real-time observing of relatively faint astronomical objects using very sensitive CCD or CMOS cameras. Unlike lucky imaging, video astronomy does not discard unwanted frames, and image corrections such as dark subtraction are often not applied, however, the gathered data may be retained and processed in more traditional ways.. Although the field has a long history reaching back to 1928 with the inception of live television broadcasting of the planet Mars, it has largely been developed more recently by amateur enthusiasts and is characterized by the use of relatively inexpensive equipment, such as easily available sensitive security cameras, in contrast to the equipment used for advanced astrophotography.\n\nBy using either method of rapid internally stacked images, or very short exposure times, and using a TV monitor (for analog cameras) or a computer with readily available software (for USB cameras), video astronomy allows observers to see colour and detail that would not register to the eye. Because the image can be displayed on a monitor or television screen it allows multiple people to share 'live' images; using the internet it is possible for a worldwide audience to share such images. Live broadcasting websites exist for sharing live video astronomy feeds.\n\nVideo astronomy, combined with remote control of a telescope, allows anyone including disabled people to operate a telescope remotely, or observers in a light-polluted area to operate a telescope in another area, even another country.\n\nOther benefits of the highly sensitive cameras used in video astronomy are the ability to see through thin cloud, and the ability to see many faint objects in areas suffering from light pollution.\nThe equipment used varies from webcams and basic security cameras to specialized video astronomy cameras. Recent growing interest in the video 'near-live' aspect of astronomy has brought about websites devoted purely to the practice and forums for users of the equipment \n\n"}
{"id": "1844298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844298", "title": "1906 in South Africa", "text": "1906 in South Africa\n\nThe following lists events that happened during 1906 in South Africa.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1844300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844300", "title": "Last Present", "text": "Last Present\n\nLast Present (; lit. \"Present\" or \"Gift\") is a 2001 South Korean film. Directed by Oh Ki-hwan, it tells the tale of Yong-ki (Lee Jung-jae), a struggling comedian who continues to see parallels between his disintegrating relationship with his wife, Jung-yeon (Lee Young-ae), and the characters he's playing on the stage.\n\nThe film traces the romance, marriage and estrangement of a down-and-out comedian, Yong-ki (Lee Jung-jae) and his long-suffering wife, Jung-yeon (Lee Young-ae). Both of them defied his parents to get married but it seems his parent's fears that things will never work out are coming true. Yong-ki hides behind a facade of optimism even as he turns down boring job offers in the hopes that his comedic talent will be noticed on a famous talent show he's auditioning for. Meanwhile, Jung-yeon has to support them both as well as bear the pain of a miscarriage that Yong-ki is trying his best to forget. To make matters worse, Jung-yeon discovers that she's dying from a terminal disease and though Yong-ki suspects that something is wrong, she never tells him about her illness. Through the silent suffering and the estrangement, both husband and wife believe their marriage is over. But what they fail to notice until it is too late is that they still love each other deeply but both have been overcome by the trials life has thrown at them.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1844301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844301", "title": "Hwandudaedo", "text": "Hwandudaedo\n\nHwandudaedo (\"ring-pommel sword\") is the modern Korean term for the earliest type of Korean sword, appearing in the Proto–Three Kingdoms of Korea.\nThese swords were at first symbols of a ruler's power, but their availability increased in the 5th century, and it became a more widespread symbol of military or political rank. The frequency of finds declines in the 6th century.\n\nThe \"hwandudaedo\" was a large military swords made for battle, as it had a thick back and sharpened blade. This sword's name was given because of the round shape of the pommel ( 대도把頭). The swords were richly decorated, with inlay work and especially by elaborate pommel (sword) shapes. \n\nHwandudaedo subtypes are distinguished based on their decoration. They include \" Sohwandudaedo\" (no decoration on the pommel rings), \"Samyeophwandudaedo\" (pommel ring with three opened leaves), \"Samruhwandudaedo\" (three pommel rings forming a triangle), \"Yonghwandudaedo\" (pommel with dragon), \"Bonghwandudaedo\" (pommel with phoenix), \"Bonghwangmun\" (peacock pattern), \"Indongdangchomun, Samyeopmun, Wondudaedo, Gyududaedo, Samruhwandudaedo, Bangdudaedo, Duchudaedo\".\n\nHistory and characteristics of Korean Swords by Park Je Gwang – Curator War Memorial of Korea\n"}
{"id": "1844315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844315", "title": "List of highways numbered 138", "text": "List of highways numbered 138\n\nHighway 138 may refer to:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1844316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844316", "title": "Kino (band)", "text": "Kino (band)\n\nKino (, ) was a Soviet rock band formed in Leningrad in 1982. The band was co-founded and headed by Viktor Tsoi, who wrote the music and lyrics for almost all of the band's songs. Over the course of eight years, Kino had released over 90 songs spanning over seven studio albums, as well as releasing a few compilations and live albums. The band's music was also widely circulated in the form of bootleg recordings. Viktor Tsoi died in a car accident in 1990. Shortly after his passing, the band broke up after releasing their final album, consisting of songs that Tsoi and the group were working on in the months before his death.\n\nKino was formed in 1981 by the members of two earlier groups from Leningrad (now Saint Petersburg), Palata No. 6 and Piligrimy. They initially called themselves Garin i giperboloidy after Aleksei Tolstoi's novel \"The Hyperboloid of Engineer Garin\". The group consisted of Viktor Tsoi, guitarist , and drummer . They began rehearsing, but Valinsky was drafted and had to leave the band. In the spring of 1982, they began to perform at the Leningrad Rock Club and met with the influential underground musician Boris Grebenshchikov. It was around this time that they finally changed the band's name to Kino. The name was chosen because it was considered short and \"synthetic,\" and the band members took pride in that it had only two syllables and was easy to pronounce by speakers all over the world. Tsoi and Rybin said later that they had got the idea for the name itself after having seen a bright cinema sign.\n\nKino released their debut album, \"45\", in 1982. Since the band only consisted of two members, Grebenshchikov suggested that members of his band Aquarium assist the band in recording the album. These included cellist , flautist , and bassist . Since there was no drummer, they used a drum machine instead. This simple composition made the album sound lively and bright. Lyrically, it resembled earlier Soviet bard music for its romanticism of city life and the use of poetic language. The album consisted of thirteen songs and was named \"45\" in reference to its length. The group's popularity was rather limited at the time, so the album was not considered much of a success, and Tsoi stated later that the record had come out crudely and he should have recorded it differently.\n\nIn late 1982, Kino attempted to record a second album at the studio of the Maly Drama Theatre, along with drummer (who later joined Zoopark) and sound designer Andrey Kuskov. However, Tsoi lost interest in the project and they ceased recording. In the winter of 1983, they played several shows in Leningrad and Moscow and were sometimes accompanied by Aquarium drummer . Rybin was replaced by rehearsal bassist Maksim Kolosov and later, guitarist Yuri Kasparyan. According to Grebenshchikov, Kasparyan was a poor guitar player initially, but he quickly progressed and eventually became the second most important member of Kino. With Kolosov and Kasparyan, Kino performed their second concert at the Leningrad Rock Club.\n\nThe band's responsibilities were split evenly between Tsoi and Rybin. Tsoi was in charge of the creative component, writing music and lyrics, while Rybin did all the administrative work, such as organizing concerts, rehearsals and recording sessions. In March 1983, a serious conflict broke out between them, the culmination of multiple differences between the two musicians. Tsoi was particularly annoyed that Rybin performed his songs, and not his own writing, while Rybin didn't like Tsoi's unconditional leadership of the group. Eventually, the two stopped talking, and Rybin left the band.\n\nThe only audio document from this period was a bootleg called , which consisted of demos of new songs by Tsoi. These songs continued with the romanticism of \"45\", but also had darker undertones. Tsoi dismissed the recording as \"only a rehearsal tape,\" but many fans viewed it as Kino's second record. Nonetheless, it has never been recognized as a legitimate album by the band.\n\nIn 1984, Kino released their sophomore album, \"Nachalnik Kamchatki \"(Russian: Начальник Камчатки.) The title was inspired by Tsoi's job as a boiler plant operator (\"nachalnik\" means 'chief' or 'boss,' and \"Kamchatka\" is slang for 'a very faraway place' – but also a folk name for the boiler plant where Tsoi worked, now his museum), as well as a reference to the 1967 Soviet comedy \"Nachalnik Chukotki\" (Russian: Начальник Чукотки). Again, Grebenshchikov served as a producer and brought many of his friends to help with the record. Among them were Alexander Titov (bass guitar), Sergey Kuryokhin (keyboards), Pyotr Troshchenkov (drums), Vsevolod Gakkel (cello), Igor Butman (sax), and Andrey Radchenko (drums). Grebenshchikov himself played a small keyboard instrument. The album was minimalist in style, with sparse arrangements and usage of fuzz effects on Kasparyan's guitar. \"The album was electric and somewhat experimental in sound and form. I cannot say that the sound and style orientation turned out the way we'd like to see it, but from the point of view of the experiment, it looked interesting,\" said Tsoi later.\n\nAfter the album was finished, Tsoi formed the electric section of Kino, which included Kasparyan on lead guitar, Titov on bass guitar, and on percussion, and in May 1984, they began to actively rehearse a new concert program. Kino then performed at II Festival at the Leningrad Rock Club, where they were highly acclaimed and began to take off in popularity. The group soon became famous and started to tour the Soviet Union. In the summer, they participated in a critically acclaimed joint performance with Aquarium and other bands held in the Moscow suburb of under the close supervision of the state security forces. In 1985, Kino released their third album, \"Eto Ne Lyubov\".\n\nIn early 1985, Kino attempted to record another album, but Tsoi did not like producer interference in his work, and the project was left unfinished.\n\nAlexander Titov was a member of Aquarium as well as of Kino, and in November 1985, he decided to leave Kino in favour of the other group. He was replaced by jazz guitarist , who completed the classic lineup of the group that existed until its end.\n\nIn January 1986, Andrew Tropillo released the unfinished record the band had recorded in his studio a few months earlier. The album, entitled \"Noch\" (English: 'night') was sold in two million copies, making the group famous far beyond the rock community. However, the band had an extremely negative view of the release of this album. They received very little money from the sales of the record, and the underground rock press also criticized the album.\n\nIn the spring the band performed at the IV Festival Rock Club, where they received the grand prize for the song \"Дальше действовать будем мы\" (English: \"From Now On, We'll Be in Charge.\") In the summer, they travelled to Kiev to make a film with Sergei Lysenko. In July, they performed at the Moscow Palace of Culture Engineering along with Aquarium and Alisa. Afterwards, the three bands released a compilation called \"Red Wave\". The album sold 10,000 copies in California, becoming the first release of Soviet rock music in the West.\n\nFrom 1986 to 1988, Tsoi began to act in more movies and continued to write songs for Kino. The film \"Needle \"(, ), which he starred in, brought the band to even more prominence, and their 1988 album \"Gruppa krovi\" (\"Blood Type\") brought them to the pinnacle of their popularity. Kasparyan had married the American Joanna Stingray, who brought the group high-quality equipment from abroad. Thus, the technical equipment Kino used on this album far exceeded the equipment they had access to on their earlier albums, and it was their first record technically on par with European and American recordings. Russian journalist Alexander Zhitinsky called \"Gruppa krovi\" one of the best works of Russian music and said that it elevated Russian rock to a new level. The album was also acclaimed in the West, where it was released in 1989 by Capitol Records and lauded by American critic Robert Christgau. \"Noch\" was also released on vinyl by Melodiya in 1988.\n\nKino performed on central television in the Soviet Union, and \"Assa\", a 1987 film featuring Russian rock, showed Tsoi performing \"Khochu peremen!\" (\"I Want Change!\") in front of a crowd of thousands. After this, Kino's popularity swept the country, and their music captured the minds of the Soviet youth of the 1980s.\n\nSoon after gaining national fame, Kino began to receive invitations to perform from all over the Eastern Bloc and even from some foreign countries. They participated in a charity contest in Denmark to raise money for relief from the earthquake in Armenia and performed at the largest French rock festival in Bourges and at the Soviet-Italian festival Back in the U.S.S.R. in Melpignano. In 1989, they travelled to New York and held a premiere of \"The Needle\", as well as a small concert.\n\nIn 1989, they released \"Zvezda po imeni Solntse \"(English: A Star Called Sun), which was lonely, introspective, and sad, despite the fame the band was enjoying. Kino appeared on the popular Soviet television program \"Vzglyad \"and attempted to record several video clips. While Tsoi was unsatisfied with them and insisted that they be removed, they were nonetheless shown frequently on television.\n\nAround this time, the band decided to create a separate pop band to perform their more light-hearted songs to balance the pop songs that helped them gain popularity with Tsoi's introspective musings.\n\nIn 1990, Kino performed at Luzhniki Stadium, where the organizers lit the Olympic flame, which had been lit only four times before (at the Moscow Olympics in 1980, the World Festival of Youth and Students in 1985, the Goodwill Games in 1986, and the Moscow International Peace Festival 1989.)\n\nIn June 1990, after finishing a lengthy touring season, the band decided to take a short break before recording an album in France. However, on August 15, Tsoi died in a car crash near Tukums while returning from a fishing trip.\n\nBefore Tsoi died, they had recorded several songs in Latvia, and the remaining members of Kino finished the album as a tribute to him. While it had no official title, it is often called the \"Black Album\" (\"Chorny albom\") in reference to its all-black cover. It was released in December 1990, and shortly after, Kino and others close to Tsoi held a press conference announcing the end of the band.\n\nIn 2012, on what would have been Tsoi's fiftieth birthday the band briefly reunited to record the song \"Ataman\", which had originally been intended to feature on the \"Black Album\". The song hadn't featured on the album at release because the only recording that existed of the song contained only low-quality vocals. This was the final release of the band and the final song to feature Georgy Guryanov who died on 20 July 2013, from complications of hepatitis C, liver and pancreatic cancer, at the age of 52. They will be a holding a concert on October 31 2020\n\nAll Kino songs were written by Viktor Tsoi. His lyrics are characterized by a poetic simplicity. The ideas of liberty were present (one song was named \"Mother Anarchy\") but, on the whole, the band's message to the public was not overly or overtly political, except for the recurring theme of freedom. Their songs largely focused on man's struggle in life and dealt with such overarching themes as love, war, and the pursuit of liberty. Elements of daily life are also embedded in Kino's vocabulary (for instance, there is a song about the \"elektrichka\", a commuter train many suburbanites use daily). When asked about the social and political themes of his music, Tsoi said that his songs were works of art and he did not wish to engage in journalism.\n\nAs one of the first Russian rock bands, Kino greatly influenced later bands. On December 31, 1999, Russian rock radio station Nashe Radio announced the 100 best Russian rock songs of the 20th century based on listener votes. Kino had ten songs in the list, more than any other band, and \"Gruppa Krovi\" took the first place. The Russian newspaper Komsomolskaya Pravda listed Kino as the second most influential Russian band ever (after Alisa.) In addition, \"Gruppa Krovi\" was listed as one of forty songs that changed the world in a 2007 Russian-language edition of \"Rolling Stone.\"\n\nTsoi's simple, relatable lyrical style was very accessible to Kino's audience and helped them gain popularity throughout the Soviet Union. While not excessively political, their music, which coincided with Mikhail Gorbachev's liberal reforms such as glasnost and perestroika, influenced Soviet youth to demand freedom and change. Additionally, the Western style of their music increased the popularity of Western culture in the Soviet Union.\n\nKino has remained popular in modern Russia, and Tsoi, in particular, is a cult hero. The group's popularity is referred to as \"Kinomania,\" and fans of the group are known as \"Kinophiles.\" In Moscow, there is a Tsoi Wall, where fans leave messages for the musician, and the boiler room where Tsoi once worked is a place of pilgrimage for fans of Russian rock.\n\nelectro-acoustic guitar \n\n"}
{"id": "1844318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844318", "title": "Cindy Fabre", "text": "Cindy Fabre\n\nCindy Fabre (born 26 September 1985 in Cosne-Cours-sur-Loire, Nièvre) is a French beauty pageant who has competed at the Miss Europe, Miss Universe, and Miss World pageants.\n\nFabre was elected Miss France in 2005. She succeeded Lætitia Bléger as the 51st Miss France on 4 December 2004. In March 2005 she represented France in the Miss Europe pageant where she was 2nd runner-up. Later in May, she competed at the Miss Universe 2005 pageant in Bangkok, Thailand, won by Natalie Glebova of Canada. In December she competed in the Miss World 2005 pageant, won by Iceland's Unnur Birna Vilhjálmsdóttir. Fabre did not place in either Miss Universe or Miss World.\n\n"}
{"id": "1844319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844319", "title": "Orph", "text": "Orph\n\nOrph is a three-song demo that was released by the band Dredg in 1997.\n\nDrummer Dino Campanella says, \"Our first two recordings were written to be rhythmically aggressive. We did the third one, \"Orph\", because we wanted to grow up the right way, from our roots with harmony and melody.\" Singer Gavin Hayes explains the heavier sound of \"Orph\" compared to later releases: “Heavy music back then to me was a little more rebellious. It wasn’t so mainstream at the time. You used to have to wait for MTV’s Headbanger's Ball to see anything of the sort. It’s just different now, and that’s kind of why we steered away from it. This was just a natural progression.”\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1844329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844329", "title": "Whatipu", "text": "Whatipu\n\nWhatipu is a remote beach on the west coast of the Auckland Region in the North Island of New Zealand. The Whatipu area has been managed as a scientific reserve by the Auckland Regional Council since 2002. The road to it is unsealed. To the south of Whatipu is Manukau Harbour. To the north is Karekare. Whatipu is located at the southern end of the Waitākere Ranges. Shifting sands have substantially changed the beach since the 1940s. Over 6 square kilometres has been added to the beach since then.\n\nWhatipu does not have a surf patrol. Swimming may not be safe due to rips, in common with all beaches west of Auckland. HMS \"Orpheus\" ran aground just inside the Manukau Harbour entrance south of Whatipu in 1863 with the loss of 189 lives. It was the biggest shipping disaster in New Zealand history.\n\nThere are caves about 20 minutes walk from the carpark, but there is no access from the caves to the beach. In pre-European times, the caves were used as shelter by travellers. In the early 20th century, the largest cave was used for dances, but sand has since drifted into the cave and the dance floor is now covered by five metres of sand. During the timber mill era, the larger caves were also a popular venue for meetings for mill workers.\n\nA timber mill was built at Whatipu in 1867 to service the kauri trade. A tramline was built to a second timber mill three kilometers north in 1870, and eventually extended up to Piha and Anawhata. The mills closed in 1886 when the kauri ran out.\n\nAt 6-hours return, the route for this track begins at the carpark at Whatipu. It leads up the hill to the right of the carpark and is clearly marked. It follows the top of the cliffs to the Pararaha Valley where it descends to the beach at Pararaha point. It then follows the beach back to Whatipu. Paratutae Rock at the harbour entrance is difficult and particularly dangerous to climb down. The Kura-Omanawanui Tracks are the other notable walk out of Whatipu. Follows Kura Track eastwards alongside the stream through bush, then climbs steeply to Puriri Ridge and the Whatipu Road. Back via Omanawanui Track, a switchback ridge in open bush with views across the Manukau Harbour and the Whatipu valley to the west coast. Time 4 hours.\n\nIn 2005, the remains of a man who had been missing for four years were found by police at Whatipu's Destruction Gully. It was speculated that the man was the victim of an accident during fishing on the Manukau Harbour. In 2006, the location was featured on Ghost Hunt, a New Zealand paranormal television show. In the 21st century, Whatipu has been used for the Wild Turkey Off-Road Half Marathon/15 km. The Whatipu Beach Beacon is a lighthouse of the area.\n\n"}
{"id": "1844335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844335", "title": "Fuerte River", "text": "Fuerte River\n\nThe Fuerte River is a river in the state of Sinaloa, in northwestern Mexico. It flows from headwaters in the Sierra Madre Occidental to the Pacific Ocean in the Gulf of California.\n\nIt begins at the junction of the Rio Verde (also called the Rio San Miguel) and Urique River, in the Sierra Madre Occidental mountain range. It flows generally southwest for a distance of , with its river mouth on the Gulf of California at Lechuguilla Island, west of the city of Los Mochis.\n\nMiguel Hidalgo Dam impounds the river near the town of El Fuerte creating the state's largest reservoir, Embalse de Gustavo Diaz Ordaz. The water is used extensively for agricultural irrigation in northern Sinaloa and southern Sonora states.\n\nThe river is surrounded by large mango plantations which produce the fruits mainly for export to the United States. The former capitol of Sinaloa, Sinaloa de Leyva, is on the river in the Fuerte River Valley, in the Sierra Madre Occidental foothills.\n\n"}
{"id": "1844338", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844338", "title": "Catch Without Arms", "text": "Catch Without Arms\n\nCatch Without Arms is the third album from the Los Gatos, CA rock band Dredg, released on June 21, 2005. The album signifies a change to a simpler, and more straightforward musical style for the band.\n\nLead singer Gavin Hayes comments on his lyrical approach to this album, saying, \"\"The whole underlying basis of the lyrics and the music is opposites, contrasts... I’d written some lyrics that are based around conversations or arguments, so we thought about a record with two halves that contrast each other. The whole basis of the record could be about objection to ideas, and contrast.\"\"\n\nThe album was released with a booklet containing art created by Dredg bassist, Drew Roulette and lead singer, Gavin Hayes. Initially there was an original painting created for each song and two others, a total of 14 paintings, in the \"Catch Without Arms\" Collection. These paintings, while abstract in nature, all contain elements directly and indirectly related to the song they portray. The artwork not only was an accompaniment to the album, but also the map to a treasure. Over several weeks, various clues were posted on the official Dredg website that were meant to point users to a buried treasure of sorts. Once the treasure was found, another hunt began for the three people who found the original treasure.\n\n\"Catch Without Arms\" was produced by Terry Date, who had produced multiple Soundgarden, Pantera, Deftones, and Limp Bizkit albums. Former Queensrÿche guitarist Chris DeGarmo worked with the band on production and arrangement of the album. DeGarmo also shares writing credits on two tracks.\n\n\n\n\nThese are the paintings released by the band, all painted by Drew Roulette and Gavin Hayes, for each of the album tracks and two additional paintings included in the \"Catch Without Arms\" Collection:\n\n"}
{"id": "1844339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844339", "title": "White Volta", "text": "White Volta\n\nThe White Volta or Nakanbé is the headstream of the Volta River, Ghana's main waterway. The White Volta emerges in northern Burkina Faso, flows through North Ghana and empties into Lake Volta in Ghana. The White Volta's main tributaries are the Black Volta and the Red Volta.\n"}
{"id": "1844343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844343", "title": "Chilean Communist Party (Proletarian Action)", "text": "Chilean Communist Party (Proletarian Action)\n\nChilean Communist Party (Proletarian Action) (in Spanish: \"Partido Comunista Chileno (Acción Proletaria) PC(AP)\") is a non-registered anti-revisionist Marxist-leninist political party of Chile, founded in 1979 originating from the pro-Albanian tradition. It has presented independent candidates on legislative elections. The first secretary of PC(AP) is Eduardo Artés.\n\nPC(AP) is a member of the International Conference of Marxist-Leninist Parties and Organizations (Unity & Struggle) (ICMLPO) and the International Coordination of Revolutionary Parties and Organizations (ICOR).\n\nThe Chilean Communist Party (Proletarian Action) was founded on November 8, 1979, through a split from the now defunct Revolutionary Communist Party. In 1984 the party joined \"Coordinadora de Organizaciones Revolucionarias\".\nIn the 90s-2000s, the party has been member of Movimiento Izquierda Democrática Allendista, Unidos Venceremos and Juntos Podemos, leaving the latter after Guillermo Teillier (President of the Communist Party of Chile, a political party member of Juntos Podemos) called to support Concertación (then the ruling center-left bloc) candidate Michelle Bachelet in the 2006 presidential elections. \nWhile in Juntos Podemos, the party proposed their general secretary, Eduardo Artés, as an independent senate candidate for West Santiago (being a non-registered party), earning 50.000 votes.\n\nIn 2009 the party supported Artés as a candidate for the 2009 presidential election, but due to their non-registered nature, they were unable to register him in the electoral service. Since 2009 the party has called for spoiling votes and more recently, abstention, in order to illegitimate the current neoliberal governments and its electoral system.\n\nIn the wake of the 2011–2012 Chilean protests, the party has seen an increased interest in high-school and university students, becoming an alternative to the more moderate Communist Youth of Chile.\n\nThe party displays itself as an alternative to the moderate \"revisionist\" views of the Communist Party of Chile and other Marxist organizations, usually calling them social-democrats and betrayers of classical Marxism-Leninism. This criticism has since increased since the death of Gladys Marín and the Carmona-Teillier era, mostly due to their Concertación-Communist Party pact in the parliamentary elections, usually finding support in the far left and the non-parliamentary left.\n\nThe party publishes an annual magazine called \"Acción Proletaria\" magazine and a monthly newspaper, \"Remolino Popular\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1844358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844358", "title": "Uganda Patriotic Movement", "text": "Uganda Patriotic Movement\n\nThe Uganda Patriotic Movement is a defunct political party in Uganda. It was founded by Yoweri Museveni and participated in the December 1980 general elections, which were won by Milton Obote's Uganda People's Congress. The election results were disputed, leading Museveni to form the National Resistance Movement and its military wing—the National Resistance Army—with which he waged a guerrilla rebellion against Obote's government. In 1986, Museveni became president and has been power since then.\n"}
{"id": "1844359", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844359", "title": "Justice Forum", "text": "Justice Forum\n\nThe Justice Forum (commonly referred to as JEEMA) is a political party in Uganda. The party was originally established as a pressure group in 1995 under the one-party system of the National Resistance Movement, as other political parties were not allowed until after the 2005 constitutional referendum. JEEMA has been participating in Uganda’s electoral politics and has fielded candidates at the presidential, parliamentary and local council levels since 1996. In 1996 and 2001, Kibirige Muhamad Mayanja, the first JEEMA party leader, contested for the Presidency of Uganda, and since then, the party has been represented in Uganda’s National Assembly. Currently, it is one of the five parties with representation in the 10th parliament and local governments. JEEMA’s first National Delegates Conference was held on 28 March 2004 at Kolping Hotel in Mityana, which saw the coming into force of the first party constitution, and the party was formally registered on 23 March 2005 after the referendum that re-instated a multi-party system in Uganda.\n\nKibirige Muhamad Mayanja, who led the party from its inception in 1995, relinquished power to 33-year-old lawyer Asuman Basalirwa in 2010 at the party’s second Delegates Conference that was held at Tal Cottages in Rubaga. With Basalirwa at the helm of JEEMA, it marked the start of a carefully managed transition from the founding members to the new, young generation that have since occupied almost all senior positions of the party. \n\nJEEMA places significant importance on civil rights and justice, as well as constitutionalism, and the party tends to be the most popular among the country's minority Muslim population.\n\nThe Justice Forum party, commonly known as JEEMA, was born out of its five cardinal principal goals:\n\n\nThe five principals became the acronym of the party which is more easily pronounceable, and is used as the party slogan.\n\nThe party emblem and campaign sign is an index finger and thumb in a “V” shape, and the party motto is \"justice for all.\"\n\nJEEMA defines itself as a \"social justice and welfare party,\" and declines to label itself as capitalist, communist, or socialist.\n\nJEEMA is in favour of free essential social services (like health and education) to all citizens, moral and ethical conduct in government and politics, a free but regulated market to avoid unchecked capitalist exploitation, and pursues a \"people first\" concept of development, where all matters affecting the nation should be decided through grassroots consultation. JEEMA stands for full dignity and respect to women, religions, races and ethnicities among other social groupings people identify with, and total respect and dignity to all nations of the world with no nation superior to another.\n\nThe party supports a transition to proportional representation and the Westminster system at the national level, saying that Uganda has never had an election that has not been disputed by other players in the race and that the first-past-the-post voting system promotes more focus on an individual's personal beliefs rather than that of their constituents, which is a recipe for corruption.\n"}
{"id": "1844360", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844360", "title": "National Democrats Forum", "text": "National Democrats Forum\n\nThe National Democrats Forum is a political party in Uganda, led by Karuhanga Chapaa. \n"}
{"id": "1844364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844364", "title": "Nescit cedere", "text": "Nescit cedere\n\nNescit cedere is Latin for \"He does not know how to give up.\" It is also the motto of Oglethorpe University, in reference to the school's namesake, James Oglethorpe, who allegedly persevered through seemingly inconquerable obstacles in order to found the colony of Georgia. It was adapted from the Oglethorpe family crest.\n"}
{"id": "1844366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844366", "title": "Fernand Labori", "text": "Fernand Labori\n\nFernand-Gustave-Gaston Labori (April 18, 1860 – March 14, 1917) was a French attorney. He was born in Reims. In his professional life, he defended the accused in some of the most prominent political cases of his day. Among his noted clients was Alfred Dreyfus, who was eventually acquitted of treason. During the Dreyfus trial, Labori was the victim of an assassination attempt which hospitalized him for a week. The attacker was never identified.\n\nLabori was elected second secrétaire de Conférence du barreau de Paris, and he was the defence counsel for:\n\nHis speeches were regarded as masterpieces of forensic eloquence.\n\nHe is buried at the Montparnasse Cemetery.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1844370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844370", "title": "The Lost Honour of Katharina Blum", "text": "The Lost Honour of Katharina Blum\n\nThe Lost Honour of Katharina Blum, or: how violence develops and where it can lead (original German title: \"Die verlorene Ehre der Katharina Blum oder: Wie Gewalt entstehen und wohin sie führen kann\") is a 1974 novel by Heinrich Böll.\n\nThe story deals with the sensationalism of tabloid news and the political climate of panic over Red Army Faction terrorism in the 1970s Federal Republic of Germany. The main character, Katharina Blum, is an innocent housekeeper whose life is ruined by an invasive tabloid reporter and a police investigation when the man with whom she has just fallen in love turns out to be wanted by the police because of a bank robbery. The book's fictional tabloid paper, \"Die Zeitung\" (\"The Newspaper\"), is modelled on the actual German \"Bild-Zeitung\".\n\nFour days after a Weiberfastnacht's eve party (Wed. 20 February 1974), where Katharina Blum met a man named Ludwig Götten, she calls on Oberkommissar Moeding and confesses to killing a journalist for the newspaper \"Die Zeitung\".\n\nKatharina had met Götten at a friend's party and spent the night with him before helping him to escape from the police. The next morning, the police break into her house, arrest her and question her. The story is sensationally covered by \"Die Zeitung\", and in particular its journalist Tötges. Tötges investigates everything about her life, calling on Katharina's friends and family, including her ex-husband and hospitalized mother, who dies the day after Tötges visits her. He paints a picture of Katharina as a fervent accomplice of Götten, and as a communist run amok in Germany.\n\nKatharina arranges an interview with Tötges. According to Katharina, upon his arrival he suggests that they have sex, whereupon she shoots him dead. She then wanders the city for a few hours before driving to police headquarters and confessing to murder.\n\nThe book also details the effects of the case on Katharina's employers and friends the Blornas; Mr Blorna is her lawyer, and Mrs Blorna one of the designers of the apartment block where Katharina resides. Their association with Katharina leads to their exclusion from society.\n\nThe story is written from a first-person plural perspective, as if the narrator were presenting a confidential report to the reader on the basis of sources. The technique is documentary, as with \"Group Portrait with Lady\", but with a much more disciplined focus on essentials. The reader is sometimes left to infer who the sources are for many of the reports, and even to wonder whether the narrator may not be one of the characters in the novel. This way, the narrator is dependent on characters and the information they impart, becoming a researcher and critic of his source material. This is implicitly contrasted with the journalists who irresponsibly distort their sources. The attack on vulgar journalism is thus mounted from the perspective of a narrator whose moral authority is enhanced by the use of the 'regal' first-person plural form. In some parts of the story, the elaborate and detached manner is also used for comic effect when retelling violent, silly or emotionally conflicted incidents as more and more personal secrets of the characters are revealed.\n\nThe book has been adapted into the following works:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1844371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844371", "title": "Kite (1998 film)", "text": "Kite (1998 film)\n\nKite, known as in Japan, is a Japanese original video animation written and directed by Yasuomi Umetsu. Two 26-minute episodes were released on VHS on February 25 and October 25, 1998 respectively. However, subsequent releases, including all three DVD releases in the United States, have edited the OVA into a film.\n\n\"Kite\" revolves around a schoolgirl named Sawa who is orphaned in her early teens. Her parents are the victims of a gory double murder. When the film opens Sawa is on a date with a celebrity, but he begins yelling at an old lady, who had rebuked him for promiscuous ways, being on a date with such a young girl. Sawa kills him, and the old lady dies of a heart attack sometime later, after feeling around for her glasses in the bloody aftermath. The detectives investigating the crime, Akai and Kanie, are her guardians. Akai has had a sexual relationship with Sawa for the duration of his guardianship. Akai also gave her a pair of crystal earrings, each one allegedly containing the blood of one of her parents.\n\nSawa is an assassin, who the corrupt detectives make kill an alleged rapist of young girls. Subsequently, over the years, she kills whomever she is ordered to, including corrupt police officers and corporate fat cats. Sawa's assassinations are famous among the police for her use of special bullets that explode inside the body after piercing the skin.\n\nEventually, Sawa meets a fellow assassin named Oburi, who is of a similar age, and a bond quickly forms between them. Due to their relationship, Sawa slowly gains the emotional strength to escape from her guardians to set out on her own. Oburi is leaving Akai and Kanie's service after killing three more targets, but Akai orders Sawa to kill Oburi instead of letting him go. Realizing that Sawa has the drop on him, Oburi tells her that Akai and Kanie were the ones who murdered her parents, but Sawa reveals that she has known that for years.\n\nShe lets Oburi live and goes to take out her next target. The bodyguards of this target nearly kill her in a struggle in the men's restroom. During it, she loses one of her earrings and sustains several minor injuries. When Oburi shows up alive, Kanie sends him after a corrupt district attorney, but the man is actually a SWAT officer, who nearly kills Oburi before Sawa arrives and saves him. Oburi confronts Akai and tells him that he and Sawa are both leaving, but Akai overpowers and savagely beats him. Sawa comes to Oburi's rescue again but is captured by Akai and Kanie. Akai appears to decide that just killing Oburi isn't enough, and after Akai says \"Sawa, thank me\", the screen cuts to black. When Kanie drags Oburi off afterward, Akai tells Sawa he's impressed with the depth of her plan to kill Oburi, saying that he almost believed her act. He tells her where Kanie is going to kill Oburi and that he is looking forward to finding Oburi's body. Sawa then leaves, saying she has an exam the next day.\n\nThe next morning, Akai arrives at a murder scene. He draws back the covering over the body and flinches when he sees it is Kanie. One of the crime scene investigators reminds him that the body's location is where a double murder occurred several years prior, when the parents of a teenage girl were killed. Akai then goes to where Kanie had been taking Oburi to confront him, but instead finds Sawa, who shoots him in the right hand and groin before emptying the magazines of both her and Oburi's guns into the rest of his body. She tosses both guns into the sewer, then removes her remaining earring and discards it as well.\n\nBefore Oburi and Sawa can reunite, Oburi is shot by another presumed child assassin – perhaps coincidentally a girl whose basketball he had destroyed near the beginning of the movie in response to an insult – and most likely the assassin Akai was talking about after raping Sawa for the last time. The scene changes to Sawa at Oburi's loft in an abandoned building, waiting patiently for his return. There is the sound of a footstep and a creaking floorboard, and Sawa turns her head to look at the source of the noise before the screen goes black.\n\nIn addition to the VHS releases, both episodes of \"Kite\" were released on DVD in Japan on July 25 and December 18, 1998. An edited version titled \"A Kite: International Version\" was released on DVD in Japan on July 25, 2000. Another DVD set titled \"A Kite: Premium Collectors Version\" was released by Happinet on December 21, 2007. A DVD and Blu-Ray set titled \"A Kite Special Edition\" was released in Japan on April 3, 2015.\n\nThe OVA has been released three times in the United States, each with less censorship than the last (with the most recent release being reputedly uncensored).\n\n\"Kite\" was also banned in many countries. \"Kite\" is banned in Norway due to scenes in the film being considered \"child pornography\" which is a criminal offence in Norway. However, a censored version is available. It is considered an anime cult classic by some fans.\n\nThree versions were initially released in North America: the first (rated 16-Up), which does not include sex scenes and the adults-only \"Director's Cut\" version (rated 18-Up), which contains nearly 15 additional minutes of footage, making it 60 minutes in total. This Director's Cut version removed some scenes found in the original Japanese release such as few shots of sexual contact between Akai and Sawa. A third release, labeled \"Uncut\", contains \"Kite\" in its original Japanese version. All contain every violent scene in the film, but the general release and Netflix versions only contain a scene featuring a mature Sawa naked at the end and brief nudity. The other two contain scenes of extremely graphic sexuality and graphic nudity.\n\nThis film was re-released on DVD in 2008 entitled \"Kite Remastered\" (16-Up version), and \"Kite Remastered: Special Edition\" (18-Up version) to coincide with the release of the sequel \"Kite Liberator\". The special edition version of \"Kite Remastered\" still has the same footage from the Director's Cut version with some scenes omitted. \"Kite\" is available now on Netflix along with \"Kite Liberator\" for a limited time as part of Media Blasters' deal. Like the general release, \"Kite\" on Netflix has few sex scenes omitted from the film.\n\nA sequel entitled \"Kite Liberator\" features a different cast of characters including a new character named Monaka Noguchi. It was released on April 8, 2008 in the United States and Japan and bundled with \"Kite: Director's Cut\". \"Kite Liberator\" along with \"Kite\" were released in December 2013 on Netflix.\n\nA live action film adaptation of \"Kite\" was reported to be in various stages of pre-production for several years, with American film director Rob Cohen attached as either director or producer. The content of the live action film is expected to be toned down from the original OVA. On September 2, 2011, David R. Ellis took the helm for the remake. On December 17, 2012 Samuel L. Jackson announced that he was the first to join the cast of Ellis's \"Kite\", with filming taking place in Johannesburg. The film, which takes place in a post-financial collapse corrupt society, follows a girl who tries to track down her father's killer with help from his ex-partner. On February 3, 2013, Ralph Ziman took over as director of the film after Ellis died on January 7, 2013; actors India Eisley and Callan McAuliffe subsequently joined the cast. On May 10, 2013, The Weinstein Company acquired worldwide distribution rights for \"Kite\", with a release date of August 25, 2014.\n\n\"Kite\" is controversial in its depiction of extreme gory violence and sexual content, including graphic rape scenes involving a very young Sawa, which was depicted only in the extended version.\n\nHelen McCarthy in \"500 Essential Anime Movies\" called the anime a \"shocking story of violence, abuse and perverted self-justification\".\n\n\"Kill Bill\" writer and director Quentin Tarantino recommended \"Kite\" as part of actress Chiaki Kuriyama's preparations for her role as Gogo Yubari in the first film.\n\nSeveral scenes in the music video directed by Hype Williams for the song \"Ex-Girlfriend\" by No Doubt are based on \"Kite\". \n\nThe Velvet Acid Christ song \"Pretty Toy\" samples one of Akai's lines from the English dub.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1844379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844379", "title": "Mario Piacenza", "text": "Mario Piacenza\n\nMario Piacenza was an Italian mountain climber, ethnologist and explorer.\n\nIn 1911 with J.J. Carrel and J. Gaspard reached the summit of the Matterhorn from the Furggen ridge.\n\nIn 1913 he organized and led an exploration of the Ladakh, reaching the summit of Kun (m 7.077) in the Indian Kashmir together with Borelli ed Gaspard, then the summit of the Z3 peak, naming it Cima Italia (Italia Peak, m 6189). During this expedition he took thousands of photographs of the regions visited and of their people, most of which collected in the book of \"Cesare Calciati, Spedizione Mario Piacenza, Himalaia Cashmiriano, Milano 1930\".\n"}
{"id": "1844384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844384", "title": "Progressive National Party (Turks and Caicos Islands)", "text": "Progressive National Party (Turks and Caicos Islands)\n\nThe Progressive National Party is a political party in the Turks and Caicos Islands, currently led by Washington Misick. At the 2003 legislative elections, the party won six out of 13 seats. It won two extra seats at a by-election on 7 August 2003, bringing the party to power. In the 9 February 2007 elections the party won 13 out of 15 seats.\nTheir 2016 election opponents were the People's Democratic Movement and the People's Democratic Alliance.\n\n"}
{"id": "1844387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844387", "title": "Tongren", "text": "Tongren\n\nTongren () is a prefecture-level city in eastern Guizhou province, People's Republic of China, located within a tobacco planting and crop agricultural area. Tongren was known as Tongren Prefecture () until November 2011, when it was converted into a prefecture-level city.\n\nTongren comprises 2 districts, 4 counties, and 4 autonomous counties.\n\nIn July 2018, the Tongren Transportation & Tourism Investment Group announced a joint venture with Hyperloop Transportation Technologies to construct a Hyperloop track in Tongren, along with an industrial research park.\n\n"}
{"id": "1844393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844393", "title": "Blue October", "text": "Blue October\n\nBlue October is an American alternative rock band originally from Houston, Texas. The band was formed in 1995 and currently consists of Justin Furstenfeld (lead vocals, guitar), Jeremy Furstenfeld (drums, percussion), Ryan Delahoussaye (violin/viola, mandolin, piano, backing vocals), Matt Noveskey (bass guitar, backing vocals), and Will Knaak (lead guitar). The band has had eleven top 40 singles over their past seven studio albums and is best known for their platinum singles \"Hate Me\" and \"Into the Ocean\" from their 2006 platinum album \"Foiled\".\n\nBlue October was formed by lead singer/ songwriter/guitarist Justin Furstenfeld, his brother Jeremy and multi-instrumentalist Ryan Delahoussaye. The band was discovered by former Kid Rock manager Michael Rand performing at the Pappadeaux Cafe in Houston in 1998. His agency proceeded to book over 350 dates on the group unsigned. Extensive publicity and artist development was regimented. This work eventually led to Michael bringing the band to Universal Music Group CEO Doug Morris under the direction of long time A&R rep Reen Nalli. The group moved to San Marcos, Texas in December 1996 and were signed to Universal Records in 1999.\n\nManaged by Justin and Jeremy's parents under the name RoDan Entertainment, Blue October released their first album, \"The Answers\", in 1998; a well-received debut which sold over 5,000 copies in Houston alone. Due to a fan-based connection with ABC's KTRK-TV (Channel 13), Blue October was able to schedule an early-morning news performance – the band's first live television performance. Other unreleased songs from this period, such as \"Rust\", \"Colorado 5591\", \"His Name Is Crazy\", \"Gun Metal Blue\", \"Dollar 30 Gravy\", and \"5 Day Walk\" can be found on YouTube.\n\nBlue October caught the attention of the major record labels while working with producer dB (Don Byczynski) in early 1998. Pre-production started for getting Blue October a more \"radio ready\" sound, with new songs and to rewrite material off The Answers. Tracking was done in a studio setup at Justin's home in San Marcos, Texas. The recordings were sent to Universal, then in 1999 Blue October signed to Universal Records for the release of their second album, \"Consent to Treatment\". The band was dropped by Universal Records in 2000.\n\nAfter being dropped, the band recruited new guitarist C.B. Hudson and got back on the road. In November 2002 the band signed with Texas-based management company Rainmaker Artists. Rainmaker immediately signed to their record label. Just before entering the studio Matt Noveskey left the band for personal reasons. The remaining band members persevered on, entering the studio to record what would be become their third album \"History for Sale\". The first single from History For Sale was \"Calling You\" released in February 2003. On March 20, 2003 radio station \"102.1 the EDGE\" in Dallas added \"Calling You\" to regular rotation, and it began to spread to radio stations across the country receiving over 56,585 spins on the US airwaves. Rainmaker took the band to New York where the band played multiple live showcases over a week period in early May 2003 for Atlantic Records, Columbia Records and Universal Records. Blue October was then offered records deals by each company. Ultimately the band returned to Universal Republic Records in May 2003. History for Sale was then re-released on Universal Republic in August 2003. \"History for Sale\" was largely a response to the control Universal had placed on the group during the \"Consent to Treatment\" production process. This is evident in songs such as \"Somebody\" and \"Inner Glow\". \"Calling You\" remained the group's largest mainstream success until their 2006 single, \"Hate Me\".\n\nThe band made their network television premiere on April 14, 2006, performing \"Hate Me\", the first single from \"Foiled\" on \"The Tonight Show with Jay Leno\". They appeared on \"Jimmy Kimmel Live!\" on June 28, 2006. Blue October was also on \"Late Night with Conan O'Brien\" in 2006. On November 14, 2006 Blue October opened for the Rolling Stones in Boise, Idaho. \"Hate Me\" was released to Modern Rock radio stations and quickly climbed to number two on \"Billboard\"s Modern Rock Tracks chart. \"Hate Me\" remained in the top five of the Modern Rock chart for 20 straight weeks. While in the number two chart position \"Hate Me\" was jumped over twice by both Pearl Jam and the Red Hot Chili Peppers. \"Hate Me\" would never reach number one. The music video for \"Hate Me\" debuted on VH1, later making a splash at No. 13 on VH1's user-controlled video countdown show VSpot Top 20 Countdown. It eventually peaked at No. 2 for the week ending on May 5, 2006. \"Into the Ocean\", the second single from the album, was released on July 17, 2006. The music video for the song debuted at number three on \"VH1 Top 20 Video Countdown\" during the show's final week of 2006 and reached the number one spot in mid-February 2007. \"Into the Ocean\" hit No. 20 on the Modern Rock Tracks. The next single from the band was \"She's My Ride Home\", which they performed on \"Late Night with Conan O'Brien\" on April 25, 2007.\n\nOn February 22, 2007 Blue October's fourth album \"Foiled\" was certified platinum. \"Foiled\" went on to sell 1.4 million albums in the US. Both \"Hate Me\" and \"Into the Ocean\" were also certified as platinum selling singles. This was heralded as a special moment for the band, Rainmaker, Brando, and key executives at Universal Republic who had signed, dropped and then resigned the band.\n\nAs a result of reaching a new audience that Blue October has found with its \"Foiled\" album, Blue October has recently undergone an expansion of its tour locations. Originally restricted to Texas and parts of the Midwest and Southwest United States, Blue October began touring locations covering the entire continental United States, in addition adding locations in Alaska, Hawaii, Canada, Mexico, England, France, Ireland, Scotland, Germany and the Netherlands to their schedule.\n\nIn August 2008, Justin featured in a sold out four-city tour with Stephenie Meyer, author of the \"Twilight\" series. During this tour, Justin premiered two new songs, \"Blue Skies\" and \"My Never\", which would be included on the band's fifth studio album. \"Twilight\" author Stephanie Meyer is a fan of Blue October, and their music has helped inspire part of the popular book series.\n\nThe band's fifth studio album, \"Approaching Normal\", was released on March 24, 2009. It was distributed via—as its predecessors—Universal. Rather than Justin Furstenfeld producing the album, \"Approaching Normal\" was produced by Steve Lillywhite (U2, Peter Gabriel, Dave Matthews Band). The album debuted at No. 13 on the \"Billboard\" 200 chart. The band released two versions of the album, each with a different bonus track: an \"explicit\" version, with \"The End\" as the bonus track, and a \"clean\" version, with \"Graceful Dancing\" as the bonus track. \"Graceful Dancing\" was also released in late 2008 as a \"special gift\" to fans signed under the band's email list.\n\n\"Dirt Room\" was the first single from the album, released on December 23, 2008. \"Dirt Room\" became Blue October's second Top 5 Modern Rock single (fourth Top 40 Modern Rock hit) peaking at number 7 on April 8, 2009. \"Say It\" was released as the second single on April 24, 2009. \"Say It\" was Blue October's fifth Top 40 Modern Rock hit peaking at number 29 on July 24, 2009. \"Say it\" also crossed over to the Hot AC radio format giving the band its fourth Top 40 Hot AC hit peaking at number 28 on October 13, 2009. The song was first performed at Edgefest 17 on April 27, 2008, in Dallas, Texas.\n\nIn May 2009, Blue October's show in Pittsburgh was cancelled by the Fire Marshal and the Pittsburgh Police Department due to overcrowding and unsafe conditions. Not wanting to disappoint fans, the band set up their gear on the corner outside the venue and played a mini-set to the delight of fans.\n\nOn October 22, 2009, Blue October announced that the rest of the tour had been canceled due to Justin Furstenfield suffering a severe mental anxiety attack. He returned to perform at Stubb's Outdoor Amphitheater in Texas a month or two after his attack. The tour was rescheduled in 2010.\n\nIn July 2010 Blue October played a series of acoustic concerts that were recorded for a live unplugged album, entitled \"\", released on May 10, 2011. In February 2011, the band announced on their website that they will embark on an acoustic tour between March and May 2011.\n\nOn June 1, 2010 the band announced they were beginning pre-production on their next studio album to be produced by Tim Palmer. In late 2010 and early 2011, they headed back to the studio to finish recording the album and debuted it August 16, 2011. The title of the new album is \"Any Man in America\".\n\nDuring the week of February 14–18, Blue October singer Justin Furstenfeld did a stint as a guest DJ on Austin's KROX-FM radio station. Justin previewed four new tracks on the air, presumably on the new album, titled \"The Chills\", \"The Waiting, \"The Getting Over It Part\" and \"The Flight (Lincoln to Minneapolis)\". On April 3, 2011 Justin Furstenfeld announced that the album would be distributed by RED Distribution, a Sony imprint for independent artists. Their former label, Universal Motown had offered them a 360 deal, which the band rejected, opting instead to become independent and form their own label, Up/Down Records. On May 4, 2011 Blue October played the first full song of the new album live, called \"The Feel Again\". On May 6, 2011 Blue October played a second song in Saint Louis, Missouri from their upcoming album titled \"The Follow Through\". Justin performed a duet with Patricia from the band \"The Soldier Thread\" for the song.\n\nOn July 25, 2011, the official music video for the first single, \"The Chills\", was released via the Vevo channel.\n\nOn August 16, 2011 \"Any Man in America\" was released in the US. On August 25, 2011 \"Any Man in America\" debuted at number 8 on the \"Billboard\" Album Sales Chart giving Blue October their first top 10 album sales chart debut.\n\nOn September 24, 2011 \"The Chills\" the first single from \"Any Man in America\" peaked at number 26 on the \"Billboard\" Modern Rock Chart giving Blue October their 6th Top 40 Modern Rock radio hit.\n\nIn October 2012 Justin Furstenfeld had nearly completed writing the songs for Blue October's seventh album. He entered the studio with the band and producer David Castell (who also co-produced Foiled and produced History For Sale) at the beginning of 2013. The official release date was August 20, 2013. The band released the first single from the album in February 2013. One song, \"Light You Up\" made its live debut on October 7, 2012 in Millvale, Pa. On Tuesday, December 18, the band released a new single called \"The Scar\", which is a Blue October rendition of a 5591 song.\n\nDrummer Jeremy Furstenfeld announced on Twitter that the band started rehearsals for the new album on January 14, 2013. They ended rehearsals on January 30 and were prepared to enter the studio to start recording the album. On February 5, 2013, the band entered the studio to start recording the new album. Justin Furstenfeld divulged in an interview that the studio had been rented out to them for all of February and March. On his official Twitter account, Justin listed the songs being recorded for the new album which includes the songs: \"Light You Up\", \"Still Broken\", \"Sway\" (the title track) and \"Sorry Hearts\". The song, \"Still Broken\" was originally released as a Last Wish song on their 1995 album \"The First of February\", but ultimately did not make it onto the album. The song, \"Sorry Hearts\" was released on an accompanying EP, \"Debris\".\n\nThe band finished recording the new album on March 27, 2013. The first single, entitled \"Bleed Out\", was released on June 17, 2013. Several songs were considered for the first single including \"Bleed Out\", \"Angels in Everything\", \"Things We Do at Night\", and \"Light You Up\". The album received positive critical acclaim, with Music Eyz citing \"it's easy to see that our favourite tormented soul is on the mend and still creating some of the most powerful and emotional music out there.\" On August 10, 2013 they released a second single, \"Angels in Everything\", for international markets.\n\nThe video for the song \"Fear\" was published on November 2, 2014 to Blue October's YouTube VEVO channel.\n\nOn November 20, 2015, the live DVD/album \"Things We Do At Night - Live from Texas\" was released.\n\nOn February 13, 2015, the band announced that they were starting work on their eighth studio album via their official Twitter feed. The band entered the recording studio in August 2015 and finished recording the album in early November. The band recorded eleven songs for the new album, making this their shortest album to date. An acoustic version of one of the songs, entitled \"Home\", was played live in Las Vegas on September 19. The album, also titled \"Home\", was released April 22, 2016. The title track and first single \"Home\" made its radio premier December 16, 2015. The official video for \"Home\" was premiered on \"Billboard\" on April 13, 2016. Tim Palmer, who worked on the albums \"Any Man in America\" and \"Sway\" co-produced and mixed the album. The song \"Home\" reached the top 30 of the US Adult Pop Songs chart.\n\nOn February 28, 2018, Blue October released a new single called \"I Hope You're Happy.\" On August 17, 2018, the band released its ninth studio album, also called \"I Hope You're Happy.\" The band is currently touring the United States in support of this album.\n\nBlue October started the year off with the release of a new single called \"Oh My My\" on February 28 - exactly one year after the release of \"I Hope You're Happy\". The single is taken from the upcoming album \"This Is What I Live For\". Justin Furstenfeld has been performing other songs off the upcoming album such as \"The Weatherman\", \"Fight For Love\", and \"Only Lost is Found\" acoustically at his solo Open Book shows or for radio promotional appearances. Recorded in the winter of 2019-2020, the new album has an anticipated release date of September 2020.\n\nThe Blue October documentary \"Get Back Up\" was released worldwide on May 21, 2020. The band had planned to tour starting in March 2020 but so far their tour has been postponed due to the COVID-19 pandemic.\n\nCurrent members\n\nFormer members\n\nTimeline\nBlue October was started by Justin Furstenfeld and Ryan Delahoussaye, who met in high school. Prior to forming the full band, the duo played together under the name \"Harvest\" with Justin singing and playing guitar and Ryan playing mandolin and violin and singing backup. Ryan was working at a restaurant in Houston at the time, and invited restaurant patron Elizabeth \"Liz\" Rapstein Phillips (née Mullally) to join on bass after striking up a conversation upon noticing she had a drum tuning key on her keychain. Justin's older brother Jeremy was watching the group practice at Liz's house one day. Liz had a drum kit and Justin persuaded Jeremy to join in on drums, even though he had never played before. The band played their first show just a few weeks after Jeremy joined. Jeremy lived in San Marcos, and the other members (except Liz) moved to join him there in 1996. Liz left the band in 1998 and was replaced by Matt Noveskey. The band wanted to add a second guitar player to allow Justin to focus more on singing during shows, and auditioned guitar players in 1999. Brant Coulter was chosen as lead guitarist, however he left the band in late 2000 when Blue October was dropped from Universal Records. C.B. Hudson joined on lead guitar in late 2000 after a chance meeting with Justin at a restaurant in San Marcos. At the end of the Consent to Treatment tour in 2002, Matt Noveskey left the band due to health reasons and was replaced by Dwayne Casey. Dwayne and Matt both played on the band's next album, \"History for Sale\", and Dwayne toured with the band in 2003. In August 2003 Dwayne was replaced by Piper Skih Swinford (née Dagnino), who is married to one of Blue October's co-managers and is also an established professional bassist. Piper toured with the band through 2004 and appeared on the live album/DVD \"Argue With a Tree...\" During preparations for recording the band's next album \"Foiled\", Matt Novesky was called back in as the official bassist, thereby returning the band to their most recognizable lineup. This lineup recorded and toured the next two Blue October albums. At the end of the \"Approaching Normal\" tour, C.B. Hudson announced he was leaving the band to focus on raising a family and pursuing his dream of owning a recording studio. C.B. was replaced by former Canvas guitarist Julian Mandrake who had previously been a touring guitarist for Blue October in 2006, covering Justin's guitar parts while Justin was recovering from a knee injury. Julian played with Blue October on their \"Ugly Side\" acoustic tour and also on the \"Any Man in America\" tour. During the recording sessions for \"Sway\" in early 2013, C.B. Hudson was asked to come back and play on the album and to play shows over mid-2013, once again returning Blue October to their previous lineup. C.B. recorded with Blue October for their 2016 album \"Home\" and appeared in publicity photos with the band, however he had to take a leave from the band due to a collarbone injury sustained during a dirt bike accident and Matthew Ostrander filled in on lead guitar in 2016 for the \"Home\" tour. On April 13, 2016 it was confirmed that C.B. would not be returning. On January 24, 2018 Matthew Ostrander posted a video on instagram announcing he had informed the band ten days prior that he was stepping down. In February 2018, Will Knaak was announced as the new lead guitarist.\n\nStudio albums\n"}
{"id": "1844417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844417", "title": "Nenad Krstić", "text": "Nenad Krstić\n\nNenad Krstić (, born July 25, 1983) is a Serbian former professional basketball player. He represented and captained the Serbian national basketball team internationally. Standing at 2.12 m (7 ft 0 in), he plays the center position. Krstić was an NBA All-Rookie Second Team member in 2005 and a two-time\nAll-Euroleague First Team selection in 2012 and 2013.\n\nHis first professional team was Partizan Belgrade where he spent four seasons, making his debut in 2000–01. In the 2003–04 season, his last with Partizan, he averaged 13.4 points per game in the Euroleague. With Partizan, he also won three YUBA League championships in a row, and one Serbian Cup championship in the 2001–02 season.\n\nOn June 26, 2002, he was drafted with the 24th overall pick in the 2002 NBA draft by the New Jersey Nets. However, he didn't join the Nets for two seasons, continuing to play with Partizan Belgrade.\n\nDuring the 2004–05 NBA season, Krstić logged an impressive rookie campaign for the New Jersey Nets, averaging 10.0 points, 5.3 rebounds and 0.84 blocked shots per game. He was honored as part of the All-Rookie NBA second team.\n\nIn his debut in the playoffs against the Miami Heat, Krstić averaged 18.3 points, 7.5 rebounds, and 1.0 assists per game; an exceptional performance for a rookie in the playoffs. This followed a greater trend where Krstić had consistently improved at a great pace as his rookie season progressed. He has a wide skill set for a big man, including refined post moves and a fantastic shooting touch from eighteen feet.\n\nThroughout the 2005–06 season, Krstić's play had continued to rapidly improve. Three quarters of the way through the season, he averaged 13.4 points and 6.1 rebounds, and had become an integral part of the Nets offense. In the first round of the 2006 NBA playoffs against Indiana he averaged 18 points per game along with 7.1 rebounds.\n\nIn 2006–07 despite the rough Nets start, Nenad Krstić was averaging career highs in points (16.6), rebounds (6.8), and assists (1.8) before falling to the ground after tearing his anterior cruciate ligament in his left knee versus the L.A. Lakers at Continental Airlines Arena on December 22, 2006. His surgery was successful. Krstić was out for the rest of the 2006–07 NBA season, but returned ahead of schedule to start the 2007–08 NBA season.\n\nHis 2007–08 season was a disappointment, as his injury disrupted his play and confidence on the court and he was largely a liability. Krstić later stated in his blog that he felt he let the team down, and vowed to return to his old form at the start of the 08–09 season.\n\nDuring the 2008 summer off-season, Krstić entered negotiations with the Russian Super League team Triumph Lyubertsy and eventually signed a 2-year contract (with the NBA an opt-out option) worth €6 million euros net income with them on July 29, 2008. He averaged 10.4 points and 5.1 rebounds per game in seven games in the Russian Super League and 13.3 points and 7.3 rebounds per game in 6 games in the EuroChallenge.\n\nOn December 19, 2008, two NBA league sources told ESPN.com that the Oklahoma City Thunder had agreed in principle to sign Krstić to a three-year offer sheet. On December 22, Krstić officially signed the offer sheet. The New Jersey Nets had seven days to match the offer, or Krstić would be free to join the Thunder. The Nets declined to match, and the Thunder waived Steven Hill to make room for Krstić.\n\nHe played for the first time in a Thunder uniform on January 7, 2009, versus the Minnesota Timberwolves, scoring six points and blocking 2 shots in 16 minutes.\n\nOn February 24, 2011, Krstić was traded along with Jeff Green and a 2012 first round pick to the Boston Celtics for Kendrick Perkins and Nate Robinson. In his first game as a Celtic, he recorded 9 points and 6 rebounds in a win against the Los Angeles Clippers on February 26.\n\nOn June 22, 2011, Krstić signed a two-year contract with the Russian powerhouse CSKA Moscow. Over the season, he averaged 14.2 points and 5.4 rebounds in 24.5 minutes per game in the Euroleague. That earned him his first selection for the All-Euroleague First Team. In the Euroleague Final against Olympiacos, CSKA Moscow lost by 61-62 after Georgios Printezis's buzzer beater in the last seconds of the game, securing his team second Euroleague championship in history.\n\nAfter a good season with CSKA Moscow, there were rumors that he was considering a return to the Boston Celtics. However, on July 10, 2012, Krstić signed a new two-year contract with CSKA Moscow, including a team's option to extend him for one more season. At the end of the 2012–13 Euroleague season, Krstić was included for the second-straight time in the All-Euroleague First Team.\n\nAfter slow start at the beginning of the 2013–14 season, caused by some private problems he was having outside basketball, by the time he was improving his performances. In December 2013 it was revealed that he is a candidate for FIBA Europe Player of the Year. Eventually, Tony Parker would go for the second straight award. In loss to his former club Partizan Belgrade, he played his best game of the season by scoring 27 points and grabbing 7 rebounds. He was named Euroleague MVP for month January, averaging fifth-highest 16.4 points, 6 rebounds and 21.6 in PIR. After beating Panathinaikos in the playoff series, CSKA Moscow lost in the semifinal of the Euroleague Final Four to Maccabi Tel Aviv. Shortly after failing to win the Euroleague for third straight year, the president of CSKA blamed Krstić and his Serbian teammate Miloš Teodosić for not putting enough effort over the season. Krstić finished his third Euroleague season with CSKA Moscow with the lowest averages of 9.6 points and 3.2 rebounds over 29 games. Shortly after the Final 4, CSKA was facing elimination in the VTB United League from Lokomotiv Kuban, travelling by 2-0 without home advantage. Krstić helped CSKA eventually win the series after big comeback and advance to semifinals, answering to previous critics of the club's president. Eventually, CSKA won the VTB United League by sweeping Nizhny Novgorod 3-0 in the final series.\n\nIn the late June, CSKA Moscow used option in his contract to part ways and allow him to sign with another team. In July 2014, weeks after signing with Anadolu Efes, he had an interview for \"Večernje novosti\". He stated that Ettore Messina, former coach of CSKA Moscow, was \"killing him as a player\", putting him to play at unnatural to him power forward position, which affected on his performances over the last two seasons with the club.\n\nOn June 26, 2014, Krstić signed a two-year contract with the Turkish team Anadolu Efes. He came in the club just after Dušan Ivković was appointed as new head coach, with whom he worked in the national team for many years.\n\nOn November 2, 2014, he fractured his left forearm, after flagrant foul by Mutlu Demir, in a game against Pınar Karşıyaka and was estimated to return in 6 to 8 weeks. He returned on the court on December 24, in a game against Darüşşafaka Doğuş and scored 2 points.\n\nAs the season was reaching to an end, Anadolu Efes cemented 2nd position of the regular season in the Turkish League. However, they were stopped in the Euroleague after the quarter-final series 1–3 loss to the eventual champion Real Madrid.\n\nOn June 14, 2015, in a Game 3 of the Turkish League final series against Pınar Karşıyaka, he tore ACL on his right knee. The injury will keep him off-the-court for estimated 6 months.\n\nOver the season, he averaged 12.4 points and 5.2 rebounds in 27 games played of the Turkish League. He also played in 19 Euroleague games, where he averaged 12.8 points, 5.1 rebounds and a career-high 1.4 assists per game.\n\nOn June 30, 2016, Krstić signed with Turkish club Galatasaray Odeabank for the 2016–17 season. On September 9, 2016, he parted ways with Galatasaray.\n\nKrstić played with the Serbia and Montenegro national team at the 2004 Summer Olympics and EuroBasket 2005.\n\nAs captain of Serbian national team he played at the EuroBasket 2009, where he won the silver medal and 2010 FIBA World Championship, where he won the fourth place. In the following year, he played at the 2010 FIBA World Championship where Serbia was defeated 99–88 by Lithuania in the game for the bronze medal. He represented the national team at the EuroBasket 2011 in Lithuania where Serbia finished eighth and at the EuroBasket 2013 in Slovenia where Serbia finished seventh and qualified for 2014 FIBA Basketball World Cup. At the World Cup in Spain, Serbian national team took the silver medal. Shortly after the final game of the tournament, he retired from the national team, after ten years of playing and six years of captaining.\n\nOn August 22, 2019, Krstić was named a director of youth national basketball teams at the Basketball Federation of Serbia.\n\nKrstić is married to his wife Tanja and has one daughter. Krstić, whose nickname is \"Curly\", was voted the 3rd most eligible bachelor by Serbia's version of \"People\" magazine.\nOn August 19, 2010, in a game against Greece for the Acropolis International Tournament 2010, he participated in a fight between players and threw a chair at Greek Ioannis Bourousis. That resulted in his spending the night at the police station, from where he was released the day after. He stated in his defence that he thought Bourousis was a fan when he threw the chair at him. In the same fight Krstić attacked Greek player Sofoklis Schortsanitis a number of times from behind.\n\nAfter the 2010 Serbia earthquake, Krstić and his Oklahoma City Thunder teammates donated $10,000 to help his hometown of Kraljevo, which was directly affected by the nearby calamity.\n\nKrstić owns and operates a distillery.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1844418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844418", "title": "List of former European colonies", "text": "List of former European colonies\n\nThis is a list of former European colonies.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n(see France Antarctique and France Équinoxiale)\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nPortuguese Nagasaki\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1844419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844419", "title": "Fuquan, Guizhou", "text": "Fuquan, Guizhou\n\nFuquan () is a county-level city in east-central Guizhou province of the People's Republic of China.\n\n"}
{"id": "1844427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844427", "title": "Second modernity", "text": "Second modernity\n\nSecond modernity is a phrase coined by the German sociologist Ulrich Beck, and is his word for the period after modernity.\n\nWhere modernity broke down agricultural society in favour of industrial society, second modernity transforms industrial society into a new and more reflexive network society or information society .\n\nSecond modernity is marked by a new awareness of the risks — risks to all forms of life, plant, animal and human — created by the very successes of modernity in tackling the problem of human scarcity . Systems that previously seemed to offer protection from risks both natural and social are increasingly recognised as producing new man-made risks on a global scale as a byproduct of their functioning . Such systems become part of the problem, not the solution. Modernisation and information advances themselves create new social dangers, such as cybercrime (He 2012, 69), while scientific advances open up new areas, like cloning or genetic modification, where decisions are necessarily made without adequate capacity to assess longterm consequences .\n\nRecognising the fresh dilemmas created by this reflexive modernization, Beck has suggested a new \"cosmopolitan Realpolitik\" to overcome the difficulties of a world in which national interests can no longer be promoted effectively at the national level alone .\n\nSecond modernity has also been linked to the so-called knowledge society, marked by a pluralisation of different types of knowledge . It is characterised in particular by knowledge-dependent risks — the uncertainties manufactured by the information world itself .\n\nVarious forms of resistance to second modernity have emerged, among them, for example, Euroscepticism .\n\nBeck sees al-Qaeda as a by-product of, as well as resistance to, second modernity, not only in its use of information-technology tools, but also in its syncretist ideology .\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1844432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844432", "title": "List of territories occupied by Imperial Japan", "text": "List of territories occupied by Imperial Japan\n\nThis is a list of regions occupied or annexed by the Empire of Japan until 1945, the year of the end of World War II in Asia, after the surrender of Japan. Control over all territories except the Japanese mainland (Hokkaido, Honshu, Kyushu, Shikoku, and some 6,000 small surrounding islands) was renounced by Japan in the Unconditional Surrender after World War II and the Treaty of San Francisco. A number of territories occupied by the United States after 1945 were returned to Japan, but there are still a number of disputed territories, with Russia (the Kuril Islands dispute), South Korea and North Korea (the Liancourt Rocks dispute), the People's Republic of China and Taiwan (the Senkaku Islands dispute).\n\n\n\nOther occupied World War 2 islands:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1844435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844435", "title": "Žarko Paspalj", "text": "Žarko Paspalj\n\nŽarko Paspalj (Serbian Cyrillic: Жарко Паспаљ; born March 27, 1966) is a retired professional basketball player and sports administrator from Serbia. The EuroLeague Final Four MVP in 1994, his sixteen and a half seasons career was mostly spent in Yugoslavia and Greece, along with several short stints in the NBA, France, and Italy. Since 2009, he has been vice-president of the Serbian Olympic Committee.\n\nFor years, Paspalj was an automatic choice for Yugoslavia's senior national team, representing his country in one FIBA World Cup, two Olympics, and four EuroBaskets. He earned an All-EuroBasket Team selection in 1989.\n\nPaspalj's forester father Jovan moved from a small village on the slopes of Kozara in Bosanska Krajina to Pljevlja on business as he dealt in lumber trade. Once there he married a local woman, Mileva, and remained. Their first child, son Darko, was born in 1961, five years before Žarko was born in 1966.\n\nDuring the mid-1970s, when young Žarko was ten years old, his father's job requirements moved the family to Titograd. Žarko took up basketball and soon established himself in the youth system of KK Budućnost.\n\nHe considers himself an ethnic Serb from Montenegro, which he believes is \"only natural\".\n\nPaspalj began his career in 1982. At 16 he moved up to Budućnost's first team where he was part of a talented generation alongside Zdravko Radulović and Luka Pavićević. At the time, Budućnost was a small, unambitious side that had played its first ever top-tier season two years earlier in 1980–81, essentially serving as talent feeder for bigger Yugoslav League clubs like Partizan, Cibona, Jugoplastika, Crvena zvezda, and Bosna.\n\nConstantly in danger of relegation, Budućnost sometimes banked on more than just its own quality for top-league survival. There is an unconfirmed story that became a bit of local urban legend from the early 1980s when Paspalj was a junior, about Cibona coming to Titograd for a late season game which was meaningless for Zagreb side but crucial for Budućnost's hopes of remaining in the top division. The story goes that a deal was struck between two sides to allow the home team to win, while in return Cibona management got to watch Budućnost's juniors practice and take whichever player they liked back to Zagreb. Knowing Paspalj was by far their best young prospect and an asset that would soon be worth a lot of money, Budućnost's club management wouldn't let him train for a few days, which meant that Cibona never saw him and therefore picked another player.\n\nNot too long after that, Paspalj entered the senior squad. Playing under young head coach Milutin Petrović and alongside seasoned Yugoslav League players such as the Ivanović brothers (Duško and Dragan), the talented youngster contributed greatly to Budućnost's third place league finish in the 1985–86 season and a playoff semi-final where they lost to eventual champions Zadar.\n\nDuring the summer of 1986 Budućnost sold 20-year-old Paspalj to Partizan. Eighteen-year-old Vlade Divac, another rising star, also joined the club that summer from Sloga. Together with young Sasha Djordjevic, Željko Obradović and more established players like Milenko Savović and Goran Grbović, they won the national title in a final against Crvena zvezda. Paspalj played well enough to earn a spot on the national team of Yugoslavia that won the Bronze at the EuroBasket 1987 in Athens, Greece. The following year, in 1988, he played a leading role in the side that made it to the Olympic final against the Soviet Union, and marked himself out as a potential star with some fine performances for Yugoslavia at the 1988 McDonald's Open. Also in 1988, Paspalj top-scored for Yugoslavia at the prestigious Acropolis Tournament in Athens, which included 26 points in one half in a tough-fought 104-103 victory against US college side Duke.\n\nIn the summer of 1989 Paspalj became one of the first Europeans to move to the NBA, joining the San Antonio Spurs despite going undrafted one year earlier. He came into the league alongside two Soviets (Šarūnas Marčiulionis and Alexander Volkov) and two more fellow Yugoslavs (Dražen Petrović and Vlade Divac) as they collectively were dubbed the \"green card five\" by \"Sports Illustrated\". At the time they were the only five players in the entire NBA who didn't come up through the American collegiate system. They were thus followed on both sides of the Atlantic with extra interest as the public was curious to see how foreigners fare in the world's best league.\n\nPaspalj came to the Spurs courtesy of Gregg Popovich, the team's assistant coach at the time, who saw the 23-year-old at a warm-up tournament in Dortmund, Germany in early June where the Yugoslav national team had been preparing for EuroBasket 1989 later that month. Liking Paspalj's game, Popovich established initial contact with the player through Paspalj's national squad training camp teammate Zoran Jovanović who spoke English having played college ball at Louisiana State while retired basketball player Nebojša Bukumirović also participated as an operational liaison in the subsequent transfer process from Partizan to San Antonio. When approached by Popovich about coming to the Spurs, Paspalj immediately expressed interest despite later admitting to never actually believing anything would come of it as the notion of playing basketball in the NBA seemed vague and far fetched to him. Nevertheless, the acquisition was finalized following the EuroBasket championship where Yugoslavia won gold in dominating fashion with Paspalj making the All-Tournament Team by contributing 13.4 points per game over five games, all of them blowout wins for the rampant Yugoslavs. In 2015 Paspalj recalled his final few days in Yugoslavia in summer 1989 before setting off for America: \n\nUpon arriving to the United States in early July, months before the other four Europeans, and signing a $350,000 per season contract, Paspalj even ended up living in Popovich's house for a few weeks as he acclimatized to the new surroundings. Shortly after landing, he was off to California to play Summer League.\n\nOnce the season started, Paspalj found himself relegated to the role of 21-year-old rookie Sean Elliott's backup, mostly getting to play garbage time minutes at the end of games. Paspalj reportedly drew head coach Larry Brown's ire by admitting he played \"no defense, only offense.\" He also confessed a weakness for Pizza Hut and Marlboros. Midway through the season, the Spurs organization even resorted to sending Paspalj to a hypnotist in order to curb his smoking habit, though the treatment ended up not succeeding. The highlight of his forgettable season came on 20 January 1990 away at Denver when he scored 13 points during 14 minutes on the floor in 126-99 loss versus the Nuggets.\n\nPaspalj got cut from the team three days before the 1990 NBA Playoffs started, as the team officials wanted to make roster room for veteran forward Mike Mitchell. His NBA move turned out to be far from successful as he featured in only 28 games during the season, scoring a total of 72 points in 181 minutes (2.6 points and 6½ minutes per game) of action. However, Paspalj did develop a cult following among fans, evidenced by the Terry Cummings-penned song \"The Mark of Zarko\", which was sung to the tune of \"The Mark of Zorro.\" Local press in San Antonio also took to him due to the folksy manner in which he conducted his media appearances with stream-of-consciousness answers and quotable sound bytes.\n\nSumming up his season with the Spurs and life in the United States, Paspalj remarked in 2015: \n\nThe 1989-90 season did have a golden lining for Paspalj as he was an integral part of the Yugoslav team which took gold at the Goodwill Games in Seattle, beating the United States in the final, and at the World Championships in Argentina, with Paspalj leading all scorers in the final against the Soviet Union with 20 points.\n\nIn 1990 Paspalj returned home to Partizan. The club, much like the player, was coming off an extremely poor season in which they failed to earn a European spot. Also returning, following an unsuccessful season of his own in Spain, was Paspalj's mentor Duško Vujošević. Seen as a reunion from a few years earlier, but this time without the rigours of competing in Europe, the season was shaping up as the one in which Partizan could finally overcome its Jugoplastika hex after the Split club was left without its talismanic coach Boža Maljković and its key player Dino Rađa.\n\nPaspalj became the league's top-scorer for 1990–91, leading the team alongside 23-year-old Đorđević and 20-year-old Danilović to the second-place regular season finish and then another playoff final where the old nemesis Split (now renamed Pop 84) awaited. Still, even a Rađa-less Pop 84 team was too much as it swept Partizan 3-0. Nonetheless, the overall season performance earned Paspalj a high-profile transfer to Greek club Olympiacos in the late summer of 1991.\n\nPaspalj's signing for the Piraeus club was a direct consequence of its takeover by Greek businessman and investor Sokratis Kokkalis. Throwing his considerable financial means behind the operation, he wanted to turn Olympiacos, a club that hadn't won the Greek title since 1978 and languished in mediocrity for years, into a European power. Also signing the same summer was head coach Giannis Ioannidis who dominated Greek basketball throughout the 1980s as head coach of Aris, having led them to seven national titles and several EuroLeague Final Four appearances. Paspalj's arrival to Athens in September 1991, just over two months after helping the Yugoslav national team successfully defend its EuroBasket title, received major attention in the city with many Olympiacos fans greeting him at Ellinikon Airport. Being the first foreign superstar to join the league, the 25-year-old's arrival was seen by many as the harbinger of a new era for Greek club basketball.\n\nIn 1991–92 season Paspalj almost single-handedly inspired Olympiacos, a team that finished in 8th place in Greek league the previous year, to the play-off finals against PAOK from Thessaloniki. Olympiacos lost 97-82, but Paspalj top-scored with 35 points on 8/9 free throws, 12/20 two-pointers and 1/2 three-pointers. During the season, Paspalj scored an average of 33.7 points per game. In his very first game, he scored 38 out of the 67 points of his team as Olympiacos defeated the seven-time defending champion Aris 67-59 in the opening game of the season (16/19, 8/19, 2/7). Several games later, Paspalj scored exactly half his team's points against Panathinaikos as he poured in 39 points in a 78-76 victory. One of his best performances saw him score 46 points in a 94-83 victory over Panionios, on 11/14, 13/22, 3/5. Playing on a fairly modest squad led by head coach Ioannidis, Paspalj was the go-to player in almost every match, capable of scoring from almost any angle and distance with his outside shooting a particularly deadly weapon in his arsenal. In the crucial game in the convoluted group stage of the play-offs that was used at that time, against Aris, which Olympiacos needed to win to have a chance of making the final, Paspalj went scoreless for the first quarter of the game but still ended up with 38 points (16/17, 8/16, 2/5) that powered Olympiacos to a 94-83 victory. Paspalj went on to score 30 points (11/13, 8/17, 1/3) in the game against PAOK that secured Olympiacos's first trip back to a title game in a decade. However PAOK defeated Olympiacos for the title. Other memorable games that season included a 39-point performance against arch-rivals Panathinaikos and a 43-point outburst against AEK, 40 points against Aris in the quarter-final of the Greek Cup which were the sole highlight for his team in a lopsided 121-95 loss, while in another he game he ended with 22/22 free-throws, a record of consistency that still stands as of 2015 and contrasted sharply with Paspalj's later, sudden, loss of shooting ability. On the national team front, Paspalj was denied the chance to participate in the 1992 Olympic Games in Barcelona, due to the sanctions imposed on FR Yugoslavia.\n\nIn his second season at Olympiacos, 1992–93, Paspalj benefited from a strengthened team (acquisitions of Walter Berry, Dragan Tarlać, Milan Tomić, Giorgos Sigalas and Franko Nakić) and Olympiacos won the Greek League championship, defeating arch-rivals Panathinaikos in a controversial final series to claim their first championship since 1978. Paspalj played a crucial role in the triumph with a series of memorable matches against Aris in the play-off quarter-finals (when he scored 44 points – 9/10, 13/22, 3/4) and PAOK in the semi-finals. He also top-scored in the final series, all of which Olympiacos won without home advantage. Paspalj scored an average of 25 points per game, including 29 points as Olympiacos defeated Aris 66-50 in Thessaloniki in a game which marked Aris's first home defeat against a team other than PAOK for nearly eleven years and 129 games, and a career-high 54 against Dafni on the opening day of the season in a game that Olympiacos remarkably lost 103-105, but he effectively cost his team a place in the 1993 EuroLeague Final Four, when he stepped over the line in the dying seconds of the crucial play-off match against Limoges CSP of France. As of 2015, Paspalj's 54-point game against Dafni remains the last 50-point plus performance in Greek basketball's top division.\n\nDuring the summer 1993 transfer window, Olympiacos brought in Roy Tarpley, a supreme talent who having been banished from the NBA due to multiple drunk-driving incidents just completed a great season for Sato Aris.\n\nThe 1993–94 season saw Olympiacos crowned League and Cup double champions in Greece. However Paspalj's shooting statistics deteriorated alarmingly during the year as he became a far more erratic player, capable of scoring in bursts or not at all. In particular his free-throw percentage nose-dived from 86% to under 50% and this led to a traumatic experience at the European League Final Four in Tel Aviv in April 1994, when Paspalj missed a crucial free throw, with four seconds left, as Olympiacos suffered a shock defeat in the final, 59-57 to 7up Joventut. Paspalj was voted the EuroLeague Final Four MVP, but the vote took place at half-time in the final, with Olympiacos seemingly headed for victory. However, although he added to his team-high of 22 points, in the semi-final against Panathinaikos, with another team-high 15 points in the final, all his points came in the first half, and he ended with 3 of 10 free-throw shooting, and later admitted to Greek television that he knew before he took the final free-throw, which he needed to score to have a chance of saving the match, that he would miss. This mental block would plague Paspalj for the remainder of his career. It transformed one of the European game's finest shooters, into a centre–forward, who relied on his experience, guile and skill on the fast break, to penetrate opposing defenses. He remained an enormously talented player, with a wealth of experience, but lost something of the vitality and spontaneity of his earlier years, when his outside shooting was often deadly effective.\n\nIn what would prove to be his final Greek League appearance for Olympiacos, in the fifth playoff game against PAOK Bravo, in 1994, Paspalj memorably rolled back the years as he scored 30 points to lead Olympiacos to a hard-fought 70-65 victory, to take the series 3-2. Following a series of below-par performances, in which his shooting percentage had dipped alarmingly, Paspalj memorably made 3/4 free throws, 12/20 two-point shots and hit a buzzer-beater three-pointer to close the first half. This consistent shooting was reminiscent of his first two, memorable, years, and contrasted sharply with the scenes at the end of Game 1 when, after having shot 1 from 7 from the free-throw line, Paspalj made two free throws in the final seconds to immense jubilation and celebration from the stands and from teammates and opposition players alike. In his very last game for Olympiacos, in the Greek Cup final against Iraklis, he scored 17 points (3/9, 7/13, 0/2) and ended up chucking his last free throw toward the basket underarm as his shooting touch deserted him yet again.\n\nPaspalj was asked many times to account for the sudden and dramatic loss of his shooting confidence and while he was unable to pinpoint any one cause, remarking on one occasion that the shot was a mechanism that he done for years without any problems until he began to miss regularly and question himself in the act of shooting, it is clear from television footage that his posture on shooting shifted significantly and, for reasons unknown, his unorthodox swing-shot became far more pronounced in the later, more erratic years of his career. However, Paspalj, in 1995, said that he never watched television footage of games he played in, and acknowledged that had been a mistake, as somewhere he had gone wrong in the act of shooting.\n\nIn August 1994 Paspalj caused a sensation by transferring to bitter Athenian rivals Panathinaikos. Relations between Paspalj and the Olympiakos leadership had deteriorated during the summer and his departure to their arch-rivals infuriated Olympiacos fans. Arriving to the club hungry for trophies and financed by the Giannakopoulous brothers' pharmaceutical business, his signing was seen as a big coup for Panathinaikos – not only were the \"greens\" getting a marquee player in the prime of his career, but at the same time they also managed to weaken their biggest rival by luring away their best player. Therefore, the expectations were also big – success in both the domestic league and the EuroLeague was paramount. Coming into the squad that featured head coach Efthimis Kioumourtzoglou, Nikos Galis, Panagiotis Giannakis, Stojko Vranković, Miroslav Pecarski, Tiit Sokk, Aivar Kuusmaa, Kostas Patavoukas, Fragiskos Alvertis and Nikos Oikonomou, Paspalj was seen as the ingredient capable of leading the team to big trophies.\n\nPredictably, Olympiacos fans immediately turned on their former hero and hounded him whenever the two teams met. This initially intimidated Paspalj, as chance had it that his first game for Panathinaikos was against Olympiacos in the Greek Cup, played at the neutral venue – Sporting's indoor hall that at the time barely seated 1,500 people. There, in a cramped arena filled with passionate fans of both teams, he played one of the worst, most nerve-wracked games of his career, and finished with 5 points (1/2, 2/11, 0/1) as Panathinaikos won a terrible game 42-40. By contrast, a month later, an inspired Paspalj, in his first league appearance against Olympiacos, memorably began the game with three consecutive 3-pointers in the opening minute, though he subsequently faded as his team lost 65-67.\n\nHowever the move across town couldn't hide the flaws in Paspalj's game and his shot continued to deteriorate. His free throw percentage dipped still further and in many games was well below 50%, while three-point shots became a rarity, with just one three-pointer from eight attempts in the entire EuroLeague season. He was the top-scorer for his new team with 19 points per game but failed to lift them beyond second place in the Greek League and the semi-finals of the EuroLeague, when in both cases Panathinaikos was defeated by Olympiacos, which made even the Panathinaikos fans disillusioned with him. The return league game against Olympiacos, which Panathinaikos won 74-72 away from home, typified Paspalj's up-and-down season, as he began brightly with 8 points in the opening minutes, faded and remained scoreless until the last minute of the game, then scored the last five points that steered Panathinaikos to victory, but missed a free throw with 3 seconds remaining that ultimately cost his team the head-to-head record that gave Olympiacos the crucial home court advantage throughout the play-offs. Paspalj's performances in the five-game playoff final series with Olympiacos were particularly disappointing, as although he scored 21 and 19 points in games 2 and 4 (when Panathinaikos played at home), he hit just 18 points in the three games played on Olympiacos territory, including 4 points in game 3 and just 2 points in the decisive game 5, which Panathinaikos lost 45-44.\n\nThis was evident during the 1995 EuroBasket held in Athens, when fans of both clubs jeered him, although a huge chunk of their dissatisfaction could be attributed to Paspalj being the captain of the powerhouse Yugoslav squad that just ended Greek hopes of winning the title on home soil in an emotionally charged semi-final. Lifting that trophy in front of the Athens crowd served as huge vindication and confidence boost for Paspalj after a couple of tough seasons, and the release of tension was evident in his jubilant locker-room interview with Vassilis Skountis when Paspalj ebulliently joined in with the chant (meant ironically in this instance as he was clutching the trophy in his arms) that \"You will never lift the Cup, Paspalj, Paspalj!\"\n\nPaspalj moved on in late summer of 1995 and after rumors of a move to Real Madrid proved unfounded, began the new season with Panionios Afisorama, also of Athens (Nea Smyrni). This was a smaller club that had regularly over-achieved, and it had the good fortune of being led by the great Dušan Ivković who knew Paspalj well from coaching him in the national team. Ivkovic became a father-figure to Paspalj and improved his self-confidence and his general game, and Paspalj inspired Panionios to third place in the league with a series of fine performances indicating that after two lean years he was nearing his peak once more. In just the second game of the season, Paspalj missed all eight two-point shots against Peristeri but still finished with 13 points, from 10/13 free throws and one three-pointer, indicating that his shot gradually was returning. In one performance against Sporting he scored 42 points (11/16, 14/19, 1/2), his highest since his second year at Olympiacos, while in a FIBA Korać Cup match against Borovica Ruma he hit 36 on 8/9 free throws and 14/18 two-point attempts. Throughout the season his shooting became more confident and he gradually regained his ability to hit outside shots. This culminated in a match against Irakleio in 1996, when despite missing his first free-throw attempt he hit the next 15, something that would have been routine in 1991 and 1992 but unthinkable in 1994 and 1995.\n\nThis was evident in both the semi-final of the A1 Playoffs, when he nearly led his team past Panathinaikos ending the three game series with 100% shooting from the free-throw line (4/4, 3/3, and 4/4), and in the 3rd place playoff, when he led Panionios to a 3-0 sweep of PAOK with 27, 26 and 17 points.\n\nPaspalj had a very eventful summer in 1996. The rediscovered confidence and form became evident at the 1996 Olympic Games in Atlanta, when 30-year-old Paspalj scored 16 points in the first half of the final against the Dream Team as Yugoslavia only trailed 38-43 at halftime. He faded in the second half along with entire Yugoslavia team, but still ended up a top scorer with 19 points, leaving a good impression that prompted Atlanta Hawks to invite him to pre-season training camp in September. This came after Paspalj very nearly rejoined Olympiacos, now managed by his former Panionios mentor Ivković – a move that would have delighted most fans of the Piraeus club, who still retained tremendous affection for Paspalj's achievement in raising the club into the powerhouse of Europe, despite his subsequent move to Panathinaikos. His stay in Atlanta, however, was even shorter than his tenure with the Spurs. A week into camp, he relinquished the guaranteed clause in his contract and returned to Europe because of family problems. The return to the NBA thus fell through and it was soon discovered that the reason for his abrupt return home were the revelations of an extramarital affair with a woman in Athens. Paspalj considered giving up basketball in the autumn of 1996 and took a break from the sport for several months to give his body a chance to recover from years of non-stop wear and tear.\n\nPaspalj would end up signing with Racing Paris, joining the squad featuring French national team regulars Stéphane Risacher and Richard Dacoury, former NBA players J. R. Reid and Sedale Threatt as well as Paspalj's old Yugoslav national teammate Jure Zdovc. Paspalj spent the 1996–97 season in Paris, leading the club to its first national title in 43 years. During this period, he averaged 12 points per game and shot over 80 percent from the free throw line, indicating that his shooting confidence was returning.\n\nPaspalj returned to Greece, his second home, for the 1997–98 season and signed for Aris. This grand old club throughout the 1980s, had fallen on hard times, and was about to embark on one of the most difficult seasons of its history.\n\nHis return to the A1 League was marked by an excellent performance against Larissa, scoring 23 points on 5/6, 6/13, 2/3, suggesting that Paspalj had regained his shooting confidence. Paspalj's free throw shooting, in particular, was more consistent than at any time since the dramatic deterioration of his statistics in 1994. Paspalj had some memorable performances in the autumn of 1997, including 18 points (6/6, 6/9) in a 63-56 home victory over Panathinaikos, and a game against PAOK when he steered Aris to victory with 20 points (2/2, 9/11) in the first round and another stellar performance in the second round of the championship. He also played particularly well against his old clubs, Olympiacos and Panathinaikos, and began scoring once again with three-point shots as in his heyday in the early 1990s. Two three-pointers against PAOK in the return game, which Aris also won, proved the point, as Paspalj dominated his young compatriot, Peja Stojaković, who was about to leave Greece for a stellar career in the NBA. Against Olympiacos, at a time when Aris was in economic crisis and many of its players had left the club, Paspalj top-scored 23 points (with 11/15 free throws) as he steered the team to a memorable 82-76 victory. He scored a season-high 26 points in a Korać Cup game early in December 1997. In February 1998 Paspalj, playing injured, led his team to victory in the Greek Cup, scoring 12 points (2/5, 5/10) but the majority of his teammates left the club the following day after having gone without payment for some time. Paspalj remained, but an injury meant that he did not play again that season after mid-February as Aris alarmingly dropped down the table and narrowly avoided relegation to the A2 league. His final performance in the Greek League for Aris came in a 101-59 point humbling at Peristeri when he finished with 4 points and in his last game for the club (in the Korać Cup) he ended with 18 points (8/10, 4/10, 0/4) in a defeat in Rome.\n\nIn the summer of 1998 Paspalj secured a move to the newly crowned European champions, Kinder Bologna, allegedly as a favour to Predrag Danilović, Paspalj's great friend and a star on the team. However, effects of past injuries and years of chain-smoking caught up with him and he was cut from the team in December on medical advice from his doctor and after a series of undistinguished performances and an average of 8.2 points per game and 4 rebounds per game in domestic play. During this period he had one final appearance in front of his old Olympiacos fans, in a EuroLeague game in October 1998, scoring 2 points (0/2 1/5), but by this time Paspalj was a shadow of his former self and struggled to keep up with the pace of games. The tragedy for basketball was that a player of his caliber was unable to continue to perform at a professional level and was lost to the sport at the age of 32, but for Paspalj himself a personal near-tragedy was still to come.\n\nSumming up his 14 and a half seasons in professional basketball, Paspalj is remembered for a successful globetrotting career that included a multitude of trophies and individual awards. Perhaps the single most memorable aspect of his game is the off-balance, unorthodox sling-style shooting technique he perfected — a move that served him so well in the first part of his career, but deserted him later on.\n\nAn interview with Paspalj in November 2015 for a Greek television station elicited a deluge of messages from viewers who continued to recall Paspalj with tremendous affection two decades later. Paspalj returned to Piraeus and his old Olympiakos home in September 2017 to attend a benefit game in honor of the legendary Yugoslav coach Dusan Ikvovic, and received a rapturous welcome from fans of his former club.\n\nTalented Paspalj, playing in Budućnost's youth categories at the time, got his first taste of the Yugoslav national team system as a 17-year-old when in summer 1983 he got picked by head coach Rusmir Halilović to represent his country at the European Championship for Cadets in the West German towns of Tübingen and Ludwigsburg. Being on a squad alongside fellow youngsters such as Jure Zdovc, Bane Prelević, Miroslav Pecarski, Ivo Nakić, and Luka Pavićević, Paspalj had a solid tournament, recording 14.6 points per game, just behind the team's leading scorer Ivica Mavrenski (18.4 ppg). Yugoslavia went on to win the title, beating Greece in the semifinal and Spain (led by Antonio Martín, Aitor González de Zarate, and Rafa Jofresa) in the final.\n\nA year later, 18-year-old Paspalj was picked again by Halilović, this time for the 1984 European Championship for Juniors in Huskvarna and Katrineholm, Sweden. Playing on a team alongside old national cadet teammates Mavrenski, Pavićević, Zdovc, Nakić, and Pecarski as well as new teammates Zoran Jovanović, Velimir Perasović, Mirko Milićević, Franjo Arapović, and Ivica Žurić, Paspalj starred again. The team won bronze by beating Spain after losing the semifinal versus the Soviet Union by 19 points.\n\n\n\n\n\nPaspalj also participated in EuroLeague Final Fours on three occasions with three different teams. In 1988 he was part of the young Partizan squad that came in third. In 1994, he led Olympiacos to the final but couldn't make the last step. The very next season (1995) he was there again, this time with Panathinaikos, but they finished third.\n\n\nIn addition, Paspalj won two Olympic silver medals (in 1988 Summer Olympics, and 1996 Summer Olympics), as well as a bronze at EuroBasket 1987.\n\nIn March 2001, Paspalj, just shy of his 35th birthday, suffered a mild heart attack while playing recreational football with friends in Athens. Not realizing what had happened, he went back to his Glyfada home where, while showering after football, he reportedly started feeling severe fatigue along with strong burning sensation in his lungs at which point he called a doctor. Once at the hospital, his heart attack was diagnosed and he remained hospitalized for about a week at Athens' Asklipieio General Hospital of Voula where he got advised to fundamentally change his lifestyle, including stopping smoking and reducing sports-related physical activity to a minimum.\n\nBy own admission, Paspalj completely ignored the doctor's advice, soon suffering another heart attack, this time a more serious one, while playing tennis several months later in July 2001. One year after that, during summer 2002, he experienced two more similar episodes that required hospitalization and stints in intensive care — first in June 2002 in Athens and then two months later on 18 August 2002 in Belgrade while playing outdoor pickup basketball with friends who reacted quickly and got him to a hospital where he got placed in intensive care at the cardiology unit of Belgrade's Urgentni centar.\n\nIn October 2005, during a discussion on RTS television's \"Ključ\" programme regarding coronary issues, he stated that two heart attacks weren't enough to force him into quitting smoking or into substantially changing his lifestyle.\n\nIn a November 2007 interview on the same television (\"Balkanskom ulicom\" programme) he admitted to still smoking, though adding he cut back on it significantly and is in the process of phasing it out completely.\n\nIn November 2017, Paspalj was reported to have suffered a stroke while visiting San Antonio. After spending some time in hospital, Paspalj moved to the home of San Antonio Spurs coach Gregg Popovich, where he was visited by his former teammate Vlade Divac, who reported that the worst had passed but that Paspalj was only beginning to communicate again.\n\nIn the early 2004 he became team manager for the Serbia-Montenegro national squad, working under head coach Željko Obradović who had just come back to the national team following a four-year absence. The most important aspect of Paspalj's job was helping create the right atmosphere by acting as a liaison between the head coach and the players. The thinking was that such a well-liked former player would have a soothing effect on the damaged inter-squad relations. Paspalj was also entrusted with the role of convincing different players, especially ones from the NBA, to come play for the national team.\n\nUnfortunately, his time at the post coincided with two of the team's worst performances in recent history as S&M finished 11th (out of 12 squads) at the 2004 Athens Olympics and then failed to reach the quarter-finals of the 2005 European Championships held on home soil in Serbia. He resigned after the second failure, citing health reasons and a desire to spend more time with his wife and daughters.\n\nPaspalj also decided to try his hand at business by investing heavily in the ambitious Aqua Park project in New Belgrade's Blok 44. The construction started in fall 2005.\n\nInitial projection of a summer 2006 opening turned out to be too optimistic, so, according to Paspalj, the new target for grand opening moved to the summer of 2007, however even that wasn't to be. He eventually pulled out of the venture in December 2007, which is when the project was taken over by Novi Sad based Genel company.\n\nIn February 2009, after Vlade Divac won the presidency of the Serbian Olympic Committee, he appointed Paspalj to be his second in command.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1844442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844442", "title": "Forum for Democracy and Development", "text": "Forum for Democracy and Development\n\nThe Forum for Democracy and Development (FDD) is a political party in Zambia. \n\nThe FDD was founded in 2001 by former members of the Movement for Multi-Party Democracy (MMD), disaffected by Frederick Chiluba's efforts to change the constitution to allow him to stand for a third term. In the 2001 general elections it nominated Christon Tembo as its presidential candidate; Tembo finished third in a field of eleven candidates with 13% of the vote. In the National Assembly elections the party received 16% of the vote, winning 12 seats. Three FDD politicians were later invited by President Levy Mwanawasa to serve in a 'unity cabinet', and they were expelled from the party for accepting the invitation. \n\nIn 2005 the FDD chose Edith Nawakwi, a former MMD minister, as its president. However, in 2006 the government de-registered the FDD on the grounds that it had failed to submit an annual report. The FDD subsequently joined the United Democratic Alliance, which put forward United Party for National Development leader Hakainde Hichilema as its presidential candidate for the 2006 general elections. Hilchema finished third with 25% of the vote, whilst the UDA won 24 seats in the National Assembly, down from the combined 74 the alliance's member parties had won in 2001.\n\nThe FDD did not nominate a candidate for the 2008 presidential by-election, but put forward Nawakwi for the 2011 general elections. She received 0.2% of the vote, finishing seventh out of the nine candidates. The party won a single seat in the National Assembly, Chifumu Banda in Chasefu. Nawakwi ran for the presidency again in the 2015 presidential by-election, finishing third with 0.9% of the vote.\n\nThe FDD currently holds one seat in the National Assembly.\n"}
{"id": "1844443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844443", "title": "Chinese imperialism", "text": "Chinese imperialism\n\nOver the last four thousand years Chinese imperialism and expansion have been a central feature of the history of East Asia. Since the recovery of Chinese strength in the late 20th century, the issues involved have been of concern to China's neighbors to the east.\n\nIn Chinese political theory, relations between foreign states were governed by the tributary system. Since the Emperor of China held the Mandate of Heaven, his rule was universal and extended to All under heaven. Sometimes neighboring states were actual protectorates or vassal states over which China exerted large amounts of influence, while in other cases foreign states merely acknowledged China's nominal suzerainty in order to gain access to Chinese trade, which took place through the tributary system.\n\nThe king of the ancient state of Qin first unified the Chinese empire in 221 BC by conquering all of the other states in what was then considered China and proclaimed himself the \"First Emperor\" and became known as Qin Shi Huang.\n\nThe ancient Han dynasty (202 BC – 220 AD) established control over northern Vietnam, northern Korea, and the Tarim Basin of Central Asia. The short-lived Sui dynasty (581–618 AD) reinvaded Annam (northern Vietnam) and attacked Champa (southern Vietnam), while they also attempted to conquer Korea, which failed (see Goguryeo-Sui Wars).\n\nThe later Tang dynasty (618–907) aided the Korean Silla Kingdom in defeating their two Korean rivals, yet became shortchanged when they discovered Silla was not about to allow the Tang to claim much of Goguryeo's territory (as it had been under the Chinese Han dynasty's control a few centuries before, the Han having wrested it from native kingdoms at that time). The Tang Dynasty established control over the Tarim Basin region as well, fighting wars with the new Tibetan Empire and stripping them of their colonies in Central Asia (which was abandoned after the An Lushan Rebellion). The Song dynasty (960–1279), in securing maritime trade routes that ran from South East Asia into the Indian Ocean, had established fortified trade bases in the Philippines. The Mongol-led Yuan dynasty (1279–1368) made attempts to invade Japan after securing the Korean peninsula through the vassaldom of the Korean Goryeo dynasty, yet both of these military ventures failed (see Mongol Invasions of Japan).\n\nBy the late 19th century, in response to competition with other states, the Qing government of China attempted to exert direct control of its frontier areas by conquest or, if already under military control, conversion into provinces.\n\nMing-dynasty loyalists from China invaded Taiwan and expelled Dutch colonialists from the island during the Siege of Fort Zeelandia and founded the Chinese Kingdom of Tungning. The Ming loyalists quickly moved to replace the institutions and culture of Dutch colonial rule with Han Chinese colonial rule. Language and religious institutions left by the Dutch were closed and replaced with Confucian temples and Chinese language schools for both Han Chinese and aboriginals. Officials encouraged new immigration of Han Chinese from China into territory further inland, turning aboriginal lands into new farmland. After fighting between the Ming loyalists and the Qing during the Revolt of the Three Feudatories, the Qing attacked the Kingdom of Tungning. the Qing won the Battle of Penghu and the Ming loyalists submitted to Qing rule. Tungning was annexed as part of Fujian province. The Qing were \"reluctant colonizers\" but became convinced of Taiwan's value to their empire due to the threat the island posed if used as a base by rival powers, and by its abundant resources. The Qing turned Taiwan into its own province in 1885, after Japanese interest and a defeated French invasion attempt.\n\nAfter British troops invaded Tibet in the waning days of the Qing dynasty, the Qing responded by sending Zhao Erfeng to further integrate Tibet into China. He succeeded in abolishing the powers of the Tibetan local leaders in Kham and appointing Chinese magistrates in their places by 1909–10. Qing forces were also sent to Ü-Tsang in 1910 to establish a direct control over Tibet proper, though a province was never established in this area.\n\nThe ability of Qing China to project power into Central Asia came about because of two changes, one social and one technological. The social change was that under the Qing dynasty, from 1642, China came under the control of the Manchus who organised their military forces around cavalry which was more suited for power projection than traditional Chinese infantry. The technological change was advances in artillery which negated the military advantage that the people of the Steppe had with their cavalry. Zunghar Khanate (Зүүн гарын хаант улс) was the last great independent nomadic power on the steppe in Central Asia. The Dzungars were deliberately exterminated in a brutal campaign during the Zunghar Genocide by Manchu Bannermen and Khalkha Mongols. It has been estimated that more than a million people were slaughtered, and it took generations for it to recover. The Manchu ruling family (Aisin Gioro) was a supporter of Tibetan Buddhism and so many of the ruling groups were linked by religion.\n\nThe Qing campaign against Burma (Myanmar) (1765–70) was its most disastrous and costly frontier war. It ended in a stalemate but the Qing rulers could not accept Burma as an equal, and when diplomatic relations were resumed in 1790, the Qing court considered it a restoration of Chinese suzerainty.\n\nWith the 1978 Chinese economic reform launched by Deng Xiaoping, China has increased its political stance, its influence and its power abroad. On one side, China remains deeply neutral and not involving in any conflict, and the land borders are stable. China has increased its influence, while using military and economic wealth and claims to island territories that have caused anxiety in neighbors to the east, such as the Philippines and Japan. Jeffrey Reeves (2018), argues that since 2012, Xi Jinping has demonstrated \"a concerted imperialist policy\" towards its developing neighbor states to the south and west, especially Mongolia, Kazakhstan, Tajikistan, Kyrgyzstan, Afghanistan, Pakistan, Nepal, Myanmar, Cambodia, Laos and Vietnam. Chinese overseas populations are also said to play a disproportionate role in Southeast Asian economies in what is referred to as the bamboo network.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1844445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844445", "title": "Heritage Party (Zambia)", "text": "Heritage Party (Zambia)\n\nThe Heritage Party is a political party in Zambia. \n\nThe party was formed in 2001 by Godfrey Miyanda after he left the Movement for Multi-Party Democracy over President Frederick Chiluba's plans to run for a third term in office. In the December 2001 general elections Miyanda stood as the party's presidential candidate, finishing fifth in a field of eleven candidates with 8% of the vote. The party also received 8% of the vote in the National Assembly elections, winning four seats.\n\nIn the 2006 elections Miyanda was the party's presidential candidate again, but saw his vote share fall to 1.6%; in the National Assembly elections the party's vote share was reduced to 1.3% and it lost all four seats. Miyanda stood for president again in 2008, but received less than 0.8% of the vote, finishing last amongst the four candidates.\n\nThe 2011 general elections saw Miyanda's share of the presidential vote reduced to 0.2%, whilst the party received just 485 votes in the National Assembly elections (0.02%). Miyanda ran for a fifth time in the 2015 presidential elections, finishing eighth in a field of eleven candidates with 0.3% of the vote.\n"}
{"id": "1844446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844446", "title": "National Citizens' Coalition", "text": "National Citizens' Coalition\n\nThe National Citizens' Coalition (NCC) was a minor political party in Zambia. \n\nThe NCC was founded by Nevers Mumba, an evangelical pastor, in 1997, and was known as the National Christian Coalition until being renamed on 19 June 1998. In the 2001 general elections, Mumba was the party's presidential candidate, receiving 2.2% of the vote, finishing eighth in a field of 11 candidates. In the National Assembly elections the party received 2% of the vote, failing to win a seat.\n\nThe party was dissolved on 27 May 2003 to merge into the Movement for Multi-Party Democracy, after which Mumba was appointed Vice President.\n"}
{"id": "1844447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844447", "title": "Patriotic Front (Zambia)", "text": "Patriotic Front (Zambia)\n\nThe Patriotic Front (PF) is the ruling political party in Zambia. The party was formed by Michael Sata as a breakaway party of the Movement for Multiparty Democracy in 2001 after the President Frederick Chiluba nominated Levy Mwanawasa as its presidential candidate for 2001 elections. After several years, the PF gained power in the 2011 general elections.\n\nThe Patriotic Front was formed as a political party in 2001. In 2000, after Chiluba lost a bid to change the constitution to allow him to stand for third term, Michael Sata thought he would be endorsed as the MMD presidential candidate. The answer was given in 2001 when Chiluba noted that none of those (including Sata) who were in his government at the time were capable of winning the elections. At a secret ballot, Chiluba personally nominated Mwanawasa and voted for him to be the presidential candidate. Angered by this turn of events, Sata quit the MMD and founded the PF. At the same time, notable figures like Christon Tembo, Godfrey Miyanda and Edith Nawakwi formed the Forum for Democracy and Development (FDD). Party. Sata became leader of the PF and was its presidential candidate for the 2001 general elections; he received 3.4% of the vote, finishing seventh out of the eleven candidates. In the National Assembly elections the party received 2.8% of the vote, winning a single seat.\n\nSata was again the party's presidential candidate in the 2006 general elections, this time finishing second to Levy Patrick Mwanawasa with 29% of the vote. With its National Assembly vote share increasing to 23% , the party won 43 seats, becoming the largest opposition party. Following Mwanawasa's death, a presidential by-election was held in 2008. Sata finished second to MMD candidate Rupiah Banda with 38% of the vote to Banda's 40%.\n\nThe 2011 general elections saw a reversal of the 2008 result, with Sata beating Banda by a margin of 42% to 35%. The PF also became the largest party in the National Assembly, winning 60 of the 150 seats. However, Sata died in office in October 2014. Vice-President Guy Scott took over as interim president until a by-election was held in January 2015. Edgar Lungu was selected as the party's candidate, and won the election with 48% of the vote.\n\n"}
{"id": "1844448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844448", "title": "Zambia Republican Party", "text": "Zambia Republican Party\n\nThe Zambia Republican Party is a political party in Zambia.\n\nThe ZRP was formed in February 2001 as a merger of the Zambia Alliance for Progress (ZAP), the Republican Party and the National Republican Party; however, the ZAP later withdrew from the merger. In the December 2001 general elections it nominated Benjamin Mwila as its presidential candidate; Mwila finishing sixth in a field of eleven candidates with 5% of the vote. In the National Assembly elections the party received 6% of the vote, winning a single seat.\n\nIn June 2006 a faction of the party left to join the Movement for Multi-Party Democracy. In the build-up to the September 2006 general elections the ZRP joined the National Democratic Focus alliance. The NDF did not nominate a presidential candidate, but won a single seat in the National Assembly elections, taken by Mwila.\n\nPrior to the 2011 general elections Mwila left to join the MMD.\n"}
{"id": "1844451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844451", "title": "Freeze (software engineering)", "text": "Freeze (software engineering)\n\nIn software engineering, a freeze is a point in time in the development process after which the rules for making changes to the source code or related resources become more strict, or the period during which those rules are applied. A freeze helps move the project forward towards a release or the end of an iteration by reducing the scale or frequency of changes, and may be used to help meet a roadmap.\n\nThe exact rules depend on the type of freeze and the particular development process in use; for example, they may include only allowing changes which fix bugs, or allowing changes only after thorough review by other members of the development team. They may also specify what happens if a change contrary to the rules is required, such as restarting the freeze period.\n\nCommon types of freezes are:\n\n\nIn development environments using version control, the use of branching can alleviate delays in development caused by freezes. For example, a project may have a \"stable\" branch from which new versions of the software are released, and a separate \"development\" branch in which the developers add new code. The effect of a freeze is then to prevent \"promotion\" of some or all changes from the development branch to the stable branch. In other words, the freeze applies only to the stable branch, and developers can continue their work on the development branch.\n\n"}
{"id": "1844458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844458", "title": "Hanging coffins", "text": "Hanging coffins\n\nHanging coffins are coffins which have been placed on cliffs. They can be found in various locations, including China, Indonesia, and the Philippines. In China, they are known in Mandarin as \"xuanguan\" () which also means \"hanging coffin\".\n\nHanging coffins are an ancient funeral custom of some ethnic groups, especially the Bo people of southern China. Coffins of various shapes were mostly carved from one whole piece of wood. Hanging coffins either lie on beams projecting outward from vertical faces such as mountains, are placed in caves in the face of cliffs, or sit on natural rock projections on mountain faces.\n\nAccording to Chinaculture.org it was said that the hanging coffins could prevent bodies from being taken by beasts and also bless the soul eternally. Spiritually, the Bo people viewed the mountain cliffs as a stairway to heaven and believed that by placing the coffins up high the deceased would be closer to heaven. A practical reason for placing the coffins on cliffs includes isolation, so that they are hard for animals to reach and less vulnerable to destruction.\nLocations of hanging coffins include:\n\nHanging coffins can be found in Sagada, Mountain Province, Luzon Island.\n\nHanging coffins and funeral effigies of the Sa'dan Toraja people of upland Sulawesi are found in Londa Nanggala cave.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1844468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844468", "title": "Minority Front", "text": "Minority Front\n\nThe Minority Front is a political party in South Africa. Though the party aims to represent all minorities of South Africa, its support comes mainly from South Africa's Indian community. Its largest base of political strength is in the province of KwaZulu-Natal, especially the city of Durban which is the cultural and demographic centre of South Africa's Indian community. It was led by Amichand Rajbansi until his death in December 2011.\n\nIt was formed as a successor to the National People's Party, which was an important party led by Rajbansi in the Indian-only House of Delegates in the Tricameral Parliament.\n\nAfter his death, Rajbansi's widow, Shameen Thakur-Rajbansi, was appointed as leader in January 2012. A leadership and family battle erupted when an attempt was made to replace Thakur-Rajbansi as leader, with Amichand Rajbansi's son, Vimal, and first wife, Asha Devi Rajbansi, asking her to step down, and a breakaway conference (not recognized by the IEC) elected Roy Bhoola, who Thakur-Rajbansi had attempted to remove from public office. Thakur-Rajbansi was declared the undisputed leader in December 2013 after the parties settled their disputes in a confidential agreement.\n\n! Election\n! Total votes\n! Share of vote\n! Seats \n! Government\n! 1994\n! 1999\n! 2004\n! 2009\n! 2014\n! 2019\n\n! rowspan=2 | Election\n! colspan=2 | Eastern Cape\n! colspan=2 | Free State\n! colspan=2 | Gauteng\n! colspan=2 | Kwazulu-Natal\n! colspan=2 | Limpopo\n! colspan=2 | Mpumalanga\n! colspan=2 | North-West\n! colspan=2 | Northern Cape\n! colspan=2 | Western Cape\n! % !! Seats\n! % !! Seats\n! % !! Seats\n! % !! Seats\n! % !! Seats\n! % !! Seats\n! % !! Seats\n! % !! Seats\n! % !! Seats\n! 1994\n! 1999\n! 2004\n! 2009\n! 2014\n! 2019\n\n! Election\n! Votes\n! 1995-96\n! 2000\n! 2006\n! 2011\n! 2016\n"}
{"id": "1844471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844471", "title": "USS Caledonia (1812)", "text": "USS Caledonia (1812)\n\nUSS \"Caledonia\" was a brig, formerly , which was captured by the United States Navy during the War of 1812 and taken into American service. The brig played an important role with the American squadron on Lake Erie, and was sold at the end of the war.\n\n\"Caledonia\" was the first warship in the U.S. Navy to carry that name.\n\n\"Caledonia\" was built for the Canadian North West Company at Malden, near Amherstburg in Upper Canada in 1807, for the North American fur trade on the Great Lakes.\n\nIn 1812, the brig was taken into military service with the Provincial Marine, a naval transport and protection service in Canada. It played a major part in the Battle of Mackinac Island, transporting artillery which was used to force the American garrison of the island to surrender.\n\nAfter the American garrison of Detroit surrendered after the Siege of Detroit, \"Caledonia\" and the brig , which had been captured at Detroit, were engaged in transporting troops and stores from Detroit and Amherstburg to the Niagara River, where an American attack was anticipated.\n\nOn 8 October 1812, the two brigs were anchored near Fort Erie at the head of the Niagara River. \"Caledonia\" carried two 4-pounder guns on pivots, and had a crew of twelve. There were also ten American prisoners aboard, and a cargo of furs worth approximately $200,000, a considerable sum of money at the time.\n\nA boarding party consisting of American sailors under Lieutenant Jesse D. Elliott and soldiers under Captain Nathan Towson boarded and captured both brigs. \"Adams\" ran aground under artillery fire on an island in the river and was eventually set on fire to prevent it being recaptured. \"Caledonia\" was taken successfully to the navy yard at Black Rock, New York. During the boarding one American sailor was killed and four seriously wounded by a volley of musketry. The twelve Canadian crew members were made captive.\n\nThe U.S. Navy formally purchased \"Caledonia\" on 6 February 1813, and armed the vessel with two long 24-pounder guns and one 32-pounder carronade. This gave \"Caledonia\" a broadside of 80 pounds of shot. \n\nFor several months, British batteries on the other side of the Niagara prevented \"Caledonia\" and several other schooners which had been purchased by the Navy and were converted into gunboats from leaving Black Rock. On 26 May, the British were defeated at the Battle of Fort George at the foot of the river and were compelled to abandon Fort Erie and the nearby batteries. Lieutenant Oliver Hazard Perry had \"Caledonia\" and the other vessels towed by oxen up the fast-flowing river, an operation that took several days. He then sailed with them along the southern shore of Lake Erie to Presque Isle, where the other vessels of his squadron were being constructed.\n\nOn 10 September, \"Caledonia\" played a key role in the decisive Battle of Lake Erie. \"Caledonia\" was commanded in this battle by Lieutenant Daniel Turner, who was praised by Perry for his conduct. For much of the early part of the battle, the other major American vessels were outranged, and only \"Caledonia\"s long guns could engage the British flagship and the other British vessels at the center of the battle.\n\nFollowing the American victory, \"Caledonia\" transported American troops to Detroit and Amherstburg, which had been abandoned by the British Army.\n\nIn 1814, \"Caledonia\" was part of the expedition to Lake Huron, which attempted to recover Mackinac Island.\n\nThe brig was sold at Presque Isle in May, 1815. Refitted as a commercial ship, she was named \"General Wayne\", and reportedly sank in the 1830s in Lake Erie. However, a 1934 article in the Canadian history magazine \"The Beaver\" claimed the ship did not sink, but was dismantled in Erie, Pennsylvania.\n\nOn 24 July 2009, a story appearing in the \"Buffalo News\" mentioned the discovery of an 85-foot schooner on the bottom of Lake Erie, which may be \"Caledonia\". The American company Northeast Research Ltd proposed raising the well preserved wreck and putting it on display near Buffalo, New York. In May 2010 a New York magistrate ruled that this would violate New York's \"in situ preservation\" policy of leaving shipwrecks intact, and where they are found. The decision has been appealed, and in September 2010 the case is being heard by U.S. District Judge Richard Arcara.\n\n"}
{"id": "1844475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844475", "title": "List of places in Powys", "text": "List of places in Powys\n\nThis is a list of towns and villages in the principal area of Powys, Wales.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1844477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844477", "title": "Qingzhen", "text": "Qingzhen\n\nQingzhen () is a county-level city under the administration of Guiyang, the capital of Guizhou Province, China. It is located to the west of Guiyang's urban core, bordering Huaxi District to the southeast, the districts of Guanshanhu and Baiyun to the east and Xiuwen County to the northeast.\n\n"}
{"id": "1844480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844480", "title": "Voyage in the Dark", "text": "Voyage in the Dark\n\nVoyage in the Dark was written in 1934 by Jean Rhys. It tells of the semi-tragic descent of its young protagonist Anna Morgan, who is moved from her Caribbean home to England by an uncaring stepmother, after the death of her father. Once she leaves school, and she is cut off financially by the stepmother, Hester, Anna tries to support herself as a chorus girl, then becomes involved with an older man named Walter who supports her financially. When he leaves her, she begins a downward spiral. Like William Faulkner's \"The Wild Palms\", the novel features a botched illegal abortion. Rhys' original version of \"Voyage in the Dark\" ended with Anna dying from this abortion (see Bonnie Kime Scott's \"The Gender of Modernism\" for the original ending), but she revised it before publication to the more ambivalent and modernist ending in which Anna survives to return to her now-shattered life \"all over again.\" The novel is rich in Caribbean folklore and tradition and post-colonial identity politics, including black self-identification by its white protagonist.\n\n\n\n\n\nThe title Rhys chose for her depiction of European modernity recalls another work of modernist literature, Joseph Conrad's \"Heart of Darkness\" (first serialized in 1899). Rhys's title turns Conrad's on its head: instead of a journey from England to the dark depths of savagery in colonial Africa, it is in England that Anna travels through darkness and despair, while the colonies created in the West Indies are depicted as places of light and innocence. London is represented as a monotonous, suffocating, and alien city, in contrast to Anna's bright, vibrant, and sensual home in Dominica.\n\nThrough the character of Anna, \"Voyage in the Dark\" presents the tension between wanting to be integrated into English society and simultaneously resisting it, a trait it shares with other works of modernist literature written by Anglophone authors such as the Māori writer Witi Ihimaera, whose characters express a desire to engage with and absorb the best of the colonial legacy, yet simultaneously seek to assert their own identity and to avoid becoming absorbed by the culture of the colonial power. Anna's alienation and subordination is caused not only by her heritage but also by her sex, and it is possible to read her mistreatment at the hands of men as a metaphor for rejection of traditional values.\n\nAnna is represented as being caught between worlds: finding herself isolated socially and emotionally from those around her, she is unable to comfortably reconcile her West Indian and her British heritage. The novel employs modernist techniques to represent this, merging fragments of Anna's past with the action in England by means of a dreamlike stream of interior monologue, which destabilizes and ruptures the narrative, and emphasizes Anna's detachment from English society.\n\n"}
{"id": "1844486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844486", "title": "Elisabeth Pepys", "text": "Elisabeth Pepys\n\nElisabeth Pepys (nee Marchant de Saint Michel; 23 October 1640 – 10 November 1669) was the wife of Samuel Pepys, whom she married in 1655, shortly before her fifteenth birthday.\n\nHer father, Alexandre Marchant de Saint Michel, was born a French Roman Catholic but later converted to the Church of England. He married Dorothea, a daughter of Sir Francis Kingsmill, in Ireland. Elizabeth was born at or around Bideford in Devon on 23 October 1640. She died of typhoid on 10 November 1669.\n\nElisabeth was a second cousin once removed of the writer Anne Finch, Countess of Winchilsea.\n\nMost of what is known about Elisabeth Pepys comes from her husband's diary, which he kept between January 1660 and 31 May 1669. Their marriage and relationship are a key theme throughout. They were married on 1 December 1655 at St Margaret's, Westminster, not by a clergyman but by Richard Sherwyn, Esq., a Westminster Justice of the Peace, an arrangement for civil marriages put in place by Cromwell’s government. Samuel Pepys later remembered the wedding in great detail, recalling that Elisabeth had worn a petticoat trimmed with gold lace. Although the couple had a civil ceremony on 1 December 1655, they celebrated their wedding anniversary on 10 October, when a religious ceremony was held and they started to live together. Richard Ollard attributes this lapse of time to Elisabeth's youth.\n\nIt is well known that Samuel himself was unfaithful to Elisabeth, often with their own maids. His best documented affair is one with the young housemaid Deb Willet, whom Pepys became particularly fond of, referring to her in the second to last line of his diary. However, it is clear that Pepys held strong feelings for his wife throughout their marriage. When they were away from each other, Samuel greatly missed Elisabeth. Although they were separated for several months shortly after marrying, this has been considered to be a result of Samuel's strong feelings of jealousy. They reunited shortly before the diary was begun and lived in Axe Yard.\n\nSamuel's changeable feelings for Elisabeth can be seen throughout his diary. A resentful sentence from 25 April 1663 suggests jealous feelings surrounding her and her dancing teacher, or perhaps a simple familiarity with Elisabeth and her self-confidence: \"...merrily practising to dance, which my wife hath begun to learn this day of Mr. Pembleton, but I fear will hardly do any great good at it, because she is conceited that she do well already, though I think no such thing.\"\nSamuel's affection towards Elisabeth can be seen prominently in letters during her severe typhoid fever and after her death, as he apologises to fellow politicians and naval captains for not attending board meetings for four weeks after the death and not keeping up to date with letters during her illness: \"CAPTAIN ELLIOT, I beg you earnestly to believe that nothing but the sorrow and distraction I have been in by the death of my wife, increased by the suddenness with which it pleased God to surprise me therewith, after a voyage so full of health and content, could have forced me to so long a neglect of my private concernments.\"\n\nFollowing Elisabeth’s death, Samuel’s continuing affection towards her has been suggested through his succeeding relationship with Mary Skinner and his decision to not marry her, even though, as evidenced in his letters to John Evelyn, she acted as his wife in all but name. Similarly, when he himself died in 1703, regardless of his long-term relationship with Mary Skinner, on his own orders Pepys was laid to rest next to his wife.\nIn 1991, Dale Spender published a fictional literary spoof, \"The Diary of Elizabeth Pepys\" (1991 Grafton Books, London). Purportedly written by Elisabeth, the book is a feminist critique of women's lives in Restoration London.\n\nThere are also two encyclopaedic sites about Samuel Pepys, including information on his wife:\n"}
{"id": "1844487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844487", "title": "List of places in Pembrokeshire", "text": "List of places in Pembrokeshire\n\nThis is a list of cities and towns (and former towns) and villages in Pembrokeshire, Wales.\nMost places in blue have their own article; those in red do not. Some (annotated ) are currently redirected to their parent parish (for which see GENUKI) or community (see list at the foot of this page) and may be sufficiently notable for their own article. Coordinates can usually be found in List of United Kingdom locations.\n\nGENUKI also has a list of Pembrokeshire place names extracted from Lewis's 1833-44 \"A Topographical Dictionary of Wales\", which link to further sources and historical information.\n\nSome are stub articles that need expanding; for a list, see .\n\nFor other principal areas in Wales, see List of places in Wales.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1844494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844494", "title": "WestShore Plaza", "text": "WestShore Plaza\n\nWestShore Plaza is one of two enclosed shopping malls located in the Westshore business district of Tampa, Florida, developed by Albert L. Manley of Boston, MA. WestShore Plaza was opened in 1967 and was touted as Tampa's first shopping center that was fully air-conditioned. WestShore houses many specialty shops including Francesca's Collection, LOFT, New Balance, H&M, Old Navy, Sunglass Hut, and more. The property is owned and managed by Washington Prime Group.\n\nThe mall's anchors are JCPenney, flagship Macy's and Dick's Sporting Goods stores, and an AMC movie theater, with one vacant anchor last occupied by Sears. Restaurants include P.F. Chang's China Bistro, Grimaldi's Pizzeria, Irish 31, the Bay Area's only Maggiano's Little Italy, Seasons 52, and Mitchell's Fish Market Restaurant and there is also a kids play area near JCPenney. A nursing room can be found in the women's restroom and baby changing stations in all restrooms.\n\nWestshore Plaza opened on September 28, 1967, as the Tampa Bay area's first enclosed shopping mall.\n\nThe mall's first anchor was Maas Brothers, which actually opened a year before the rest of the mall on October 28, 1966, featuring the Suncoast Room Restaurant on the third floor. The store, which was built to complement their flagship store in downtown Tampa, became their second to be located in a shopping mall a year later (their first was at the Edison Mall in Fort Myers), and they later went on to open more mall stores on Florida's Gulf Coast.\n\nJCPenney opened on September 7, 1967, as a second anchor and only original anchor remaining today. It opened along with the first mall segment between it and Maas Brothers, which was dedicated a month later. Like Edison Mall, the center most notably included a Woolworth's five-and-dime store upon its opening, but also featured Walgreens and a Pantry Pride grocery store.\n\nThe mall was expanded for the first time with a northeast wing in 1974 along with the north parking garage and a third anchor, J. W. Robinson's, who sold its Florida stores to Maison Blanche in 1987, which in turn then sold its store and six others on the West Coast of Florida to Dillard's in 1991, and this building in 2001 also in turn was snatched away by the uber upscale International Plaza and Bay Street a mile away. Sears took over the site after moving from Tampa Bay Center in 2002, which closed as a result and announced on December 28 that the store would be among 80 stores to shutter nationwide in March 2019.\n\nAlso in 1991, Maas Brothers was acquired by Miami-based Burdines, which in turn was renamed Burdine's-Macy's in 2003, dropping the Burdine's name two years later.\n\nWestshore Plaza was acquired by the Grosvenor Group in 1990, which led to a large renovation to the mall. The mall interior was remodeled with a more Spanish-Mediterranean style interior with a three-story bell tower built over the center court.\n\nSaks Fifth Avenue opened on the west end of the mall along with a third expansion on November 12, 1998, but closed in 2013 and became a flagship Dick's Sporting Goods in 2014. In March 2014 the Palm restaurant closed after more than a dozen years in business at the WestShore Plaza. The fourth and most recent expansion in 2000 involved relocating the food court east into the former Pantry Pride building and a new west wing of mall space with a 14-screen AMC Theatres on the second level.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1844495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844495", "title": "Stephen Booth (academic)", "text": "Stephen Booth (academic)\n\nStephen Booth (born April 20, 1933) is a professor emeritus of English literature at the University of California, Berkeley. He was a Marshall Scholar and studied at the University of Cambridge and Harvard University. He first attracted attention with his controversial 1969 essays \"On the Value of Hamlet\" and \"An Essay on Shakespeare's Sonnets\", in which he reread the works in a manner considerably different from contemporary Anglo-American readings. Frank Kermode praised the former essay in the New York Review of Books in 1970 as being worth several full books of Shakespeare studies.\n\nIn 1977 he published an edition with \"analytic commentary\" of the sonnets, again attracting both controversy and praise within the academy for his precision and bold rereadings. In 1983 followed \"King Lear, Macbeth, Indefinition, and Tragedy\", probably his best-known work after the study of the sonnets. His most recent book is 1998's \"Precious Nonsense: The Gettysburg Address, Ben Jonson's Epitaphs on His Children, and \"Twelfth Night.\n\nAmong Booth's published works are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1844498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844498", "title": "Returning officer", "text": "Returning officer\n\nIn various parliamentary systems, a returning officer is responsible for overseeing elections in one or more constituencies.\n\nIn Australia a returning officer is an employee of the Australian Electoral Commission or a state electoral commission who heads the local divisional office full-time, and oversees elections in their division, or an employee of a private firm which carries out elections and/or ballots in the private and/or public sectors, or anyone who carries out any election and/or ballot for any group or groups.\n\nIn Canada, at the federal level, the returning officer of an electoral district is appointed for a ten-year term by the Chief Electoral Officer. The returning officer is responsible for handling the electoral process in the riding, and updating the National Register of Electors with current information about voters in the electoral district to which they are appointed. Before enactment of the Canada Elections Act in 2000, in the case of a tie between the two leading candidates in an election, the returning officer would cast the deciding vote. Since 2000, a tie between two leading candidates automatically results in a by-election.\n\nThe provinces and territories of Canada each have their own returning officers.\n\nGermany has a Federal Returning Officer and a returning officer in each state.\n\nIn Hong Kong, the returning officer is usually an administrative officer of the government.\n\nThe returning officer of a parliamentary or assembly constituency is responsible for the conduct of elections in the parliamentary or assembly constituency concerned as per the Representation of the People Act, 1951. Returning officer is the statutory authority to conduct the polling, counting process and to decide validity of ballot paper and election commission has no power to overrule him or her.\n\nThe Election Commission of India nominates or designates an officer of the government or a local authority as the returning officer for each of the assembly and parliamentary constituencies in consultation with the state government/union territory administration. In addition, the Election Commission of India also appoints one or more assistant returning officers for each of the assembly and parliamentary constituencies to assist the returning officer in the performance of his functions in connection with the conduct of elections.\n\nIn the Republic of Ireland, the post of returning officer in Dublin and Cork is held by the city sheriff, and in the other areas by the county registrar of the area (a senior court official). For local elections, the position is held by the administrative head of the local council. The returning officer for presidential elections and referendums is a senior official in the franchise section of the Department of the Environment.\n\nThe Returning Officer (RO) is in charge of overseeing the conduct of parliamentary (by-elections and general elections) and presidential elections. The Returning Officer declares results for the parliamentary general elections and the presidential elections in the following manner:\n\nFor single member constituencies (SMCs):\n\nFor group representation constituencies (GRCs):\n\nFor presidential elections:\n\nFor SMCs with a walkover:\n\nFor GRCs with a walkover:\n\nSection 49, Subsection 7E, Paragraph A of the Parliamentary Elections Act [or Section 32, Subsection 8D, Paragraph A of the Presidential Elections Act], are stated, only if the total number of overseas electors lawfully entitled to vote at the election in that electoral division is less than the difference between the number of votes given to the two best-performing candidates or group of candidates. In the event where the total of overseas voters is more than the difference between the number of votes given to the two best-performing candidates, the RO may declare the number of votes cast in Singapore for the candidates, and announce the date and premises for the counting of overseas votes, in accordance with Section 49, Subsection 7E, Paragraph B of the Parliamentary Elections Act [or Section 32, Subsection 8D, Paragraph B of the Presidential Elections Act]. The RO's duties also encompasses announcing the best-performing losing candidates as non-constituency Members of Parliament (NCMPs) post-elections in the government gazette.\n\n\nIn Sri Lanka, returning officers are appointed by the Commissioner of Elections under the Registration of Electors Act, No. 44 of 1980 for all presidential, general (parliamentary), provincial and local government elections held in the island. Normally public officers are appointed as returning officers and they may appoint assistant returning officers to assist them. \n\nIn the Parliament of Sri Lanka, the Secretary-General acts as the returning officer for votes conducted within the Parliament.\n\nIn England and Wales the post of returning officer for general elections is an honorary one, held by the high sheriff of the county for a county constituency or the mayor or chairman of the local council for a borough constituency. If a constituency overlaps district and county borders, the returning officer is designated by the Secretary of State for Justice.\n\nIn practice, the task of conducting the election is delegated to an acting returning officer, who is usually a senior officer in the local authority (the only duties which can be reserved and undertaken by the returning officer are related to the receipt of the writ and the declaration of the result, and only if written notice is given by the returning officer to the acting returning officer). In an English or Welsh constituency where the returning officer is the chairman of the local district council or the mayor if a borough council, the electoral registration officer is automatically the acting returning officer. In an English or Welsh constituency where the high sheriff or mayor is returning officer, the acting returning officer is designated by the Secretary of State for Justice.\n\nIn Scotland, there is no office of acting returning officer and the position of returning officer is not an honorary one. The returning officer for general elections is the same person who has been appointed returning officer for the election of councillors in the local authority in which the constituency is situated. If a constituency covers more than one local authority area, the Secretary of State for Justice designates which local authority returning officer will discharge the function.\n\nIn Northern Ireland, the Chief Electoral Officer acts as the returning officer.\n\nReturning officers normally announce the results after the count in the following manner:\n\nThe returning officer for a constituency additionally acts as the petitions officer for recall petitions.\n\nIn England and Wales, every district council or unitary authority is required to appoint an officer of the council to be the returning officer for the election of councillors to their local authority, and any parish councils in their area. County councils must also appoint a returning officer for the election of councillors within the county.\n\n"}
{"id": "1844501", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844501", "title": "Isaac Woodard", "text": "Isaac Woodard\n\nIsaac Woodard Jr. (March 18, 1919 – September 23, 1992) was a decorated African-American World War II veteran. On February 12, 1946, hours after being honorably discharged from the United States Army, he was attacked while still in uniform by South Carolina police as he was taking a bus home. The attack and his injuries sparked national outrage and galvanized the civil rights movement in the United States.\n\nThe attack left Woodard completely and permanently blind. Due to South Carolina's reluctance to pursue the case, President Harry S. Truman ordered a federal investigation. The sheriff, Lynwood Shull, was indicted and went to trial in federal court in South Carolina, where he was acquitted by an all-white jury.\n\nSuch miscarriages of justice by state governments influenced a move towards civil rights initiatives at the federal level. Truman subsequently established a national interracial commission, made a historic speech to\nthe NAACP and the nation in June 1947 in which he described civil rights as a moral priority, submitted a civil rights bill to Congress in February 1948, and issued Executive Orders 9980 and 9981 on June 26, 1948, desegregating the armed forces and the federal government.\n\nWoodard was born in Fairfield County, South Carolina, and grew up in Goldsboro, North Carolina. He attended local segregated schools, often underfunded for African Americans during the Jim Crow years.\n\nOn October 14, 1942, the 23-year-old Woodard enlisted in the United States Army at Fort Jackson in Columbia, South Carolina. He served in the Pacific theater in a labor battalion as a longshoreman and was promoted to sergeant. He earned a battle star for his Asiatic-Pacific Theater Campaign Medal by unloading ships under enemy fire in New Guinea, and received the Good Conduct Medal as well as the Service medal and World War II Victory Medal awarded to all American participants. He received an honorable discharge.\n\nOn February 12, 1946, Woodard was on a Greyhound Lines bus traveling from Camp Gordon in Augusta, Georgia, where he had been discharged, en route to rejoin his family in North Carolina. When the bus reached a rest stop just outside Augusta, Woodard asked the bus driver if there was time for him to use a restroom. The driver grudgingly acceded to the request after an argument. Woodard returned to his seat from the rest stop without incident, and the bus departed.\n\nThe bus stopped in Batesburg (now Batesburg-Leesville, South Carolina), near Aiken. Though Woodard had caused no disruption (other than the earlier argument), the driver contacted the local police (including Chief Lynwood Shull), who forcibly removed Woodard from the bus. After demanding to see his discharge papers, a number of Batesburg policemen, including Shull, took Woodard to a nearby alleyway, where they beat him repeatedly with nightsticks. They then took Woodard to the town jail and arrested him for disorderly conduct, accusing him of drinking beer in the back of the bus with other soldiers.\n\nNewspaper accounts vary on what happened next (and accounts sometimes spelled his name as \"Woodward\"), but author and attorney Michael R. Gardner said in 2003:\n\nIn none of the papers is there any suggestion there was verbal or physical violence on the part of Sergeant Woodard. It's quite unclear what really happened. What did happen with certainty is the next morning when the sun came up, Sergeant Isaac Woodard was blind for life.\n\nDuring the course of the night in jail, Shull beat and blinded Woodard, who later stated in court that he was beaten for saying \"Yes\" instead of \"Yes, sir\". He also suffered partial amnesia as a result of his injuries. Woodard further testified that he was punched in the eyes by police several times on the way to the jail, and later repeatedly jabbed in his eyes with a billy club.\nNewspaper accounts indicate that Woodard's eyes had been \"gouged out\"; historical documents indicate that each globe was ruptured irreparably in the socket.\n\nThe following morning, the Batesburg police sent Woodard before the local judge, who found him guilty and fined him fifty dollars. The soldier requested medical assistance, but it took two more days for a doctor to be sent to him. Not knowing where he was and suffering from amnesia, Woodard ended up in a hospital in Aiken, receiving substandard medical care. Three weeks after he was reported missing by his relatives, Woodard was discovered in the hospital. He was immediately rushed to an Army hospital in Spartanburg. Though his memory had begun to recover by that time, doctors found both eyes were damaged beyond repair.\n\nThough the case was not widely reported at first, it was soon covered extensively in major national newspapers. The NAACP worked to publicize Woodard's plight, campaigning for the state government of South Carolina to address the incident, which it dismissed.\n\nOn his ABC radio show \"Orson Welles Commentaries\", actor and filmmaker Orson Welles crusaded for the punishment of Shull and his accomplices. On the broadcast July 28, 1946, Welles read an affidavit sent to him by the NAACP and signed by Woodard. He criticized the lack of action by the South Carolina government as intolerable and shameful. Woodard was the focus of Welles's four subsequent broadcasts. \"The NAACP felt that these broadcasts did more than anything else to prompt the Justice Department to act on the case,\" wrote the Museum of Broadcasting in a 1988 exhibit on Welles.\n\nMusicians wrote songs about Woodard and the attack. A month after the beating, calypso artist Lord Invader recorded an anti-racism song for his album \"Calypso at Midnight;\" it was entitled \"God Made Us All\", with the last line of the song directly referring to the incident. Later that year, folk artist Woody Guthrie recorded \"The Blinding of Isaac Woodard,\" which he wrote for his album \"The Great Dust Storm.\" He said that he wrote the song \"...so's you wouldn't be forgetting what happened to this famous Negro soldier less than three hours after he got his Honorable Discharge down in Atlanta...\"\n\nOn September 19, 1946, seven months after the incident, NAACP Executive Secretary Walter Francis White met with President Harry S. Truman in the Oval Office to discuss the Woodard case. Gardner writes that when Truman \"heard this story in the context of the state authorities of South Carolina doing nothing for seven months, he exploded.\" The following day, Truman wrote a letter to Attorney General Tom C. Clark demanding that action be taken to address South Carolina's reluctance to try the case. Six days later, on September 26, Truman directed the Justice Department to open an investigation.\n\nA short investigation followed, and on October 2, Shull and several of his officers were indicted in U.S. District Court in Columbia. It was within federal jurisdiction because the beating had occurred at a bus stop on federal property and at the time Woodard was in uniform of the armed services. The case was presided over by Judge Julius Waties Waring.\n\nBy all accounts, the trial was a travesty. The local U.S. Attorney charged with handling the case failed to interview anyone except the bus driver, a decision that Waring, a civil rights proponent, believed was a gross dereliction of duty. Waring later wrote of being disgusted at the way the case was handled at the local level, commenting, \"I was shocked by the hypocrisy of my government ...in submitting that disgraceful case\".\n\nThe defense did not perform better. When the defense attorney began to shout racial epithets at Woodard, Waring stopped him immediately. During the trial, the defense attorney stated to the all-white jury that \"if you rule against Shull, then let this South Carolina secede again.\" (Due to disfranchisement of blacks in the South, they were also excluded from juries.) After Woodard gave his account of the events, Shull firmly denied it. He claimed that Woodard had threatened him with a gun and that Shull had used his nightclub in self-defense. During this testimony, Shull admitted that he repeatedly struck Woodard in the eyes.\n\nOn November 5, after 30 minutes of deliberation (15 according to at least one news report), the jury found Shull not guilty on all charges, despite his admission that he had blinded Woodard. The courtroom broke into applause upon hearing the verdict. The failure to convict Shull was perceived as a political failure by the Truman administration. Shull was never punished, dying in Batesburg on December 27, 1997, at age 95.\n\nWoodard moved north after the trial during the Second Great Migration and lived in the New York City area for the rest of his life. He died at age 73 in the Veterans Administration hospital in the Bronx on September 23, 1992. He was buried with military honors at the Calverton National Cemetery (Section 15, Site 2180) in Calverton, New York.\n\nIn December 1946, after meeting with White and other leaders of the NAACP, and a month after the jury acquitted Shull, Truman established the Civil Rights Commission by Executive Order 9808; a fifteen-member, interracial group, including the President of General Electric, Charles E. Wilson; academics such as John Sloan Dickey from Dartmouth College; and Sadie Tanner Alexander, a black attorney for the city of Philadelphia, as well as other activists. He asked them to report by the end of 1947.\n\nTruman made a strong speech on civil rights on June 29, 1947, to the NAACP, the first American president to speak to their meeting, which was broadcast by radio from where they met on the steps of the Lincoln Memorial. The President said that civil rights was a moral priority, and it was his priority for the federal government. He had seen by Woodard's and other cases that the issue could not be left to state and local governments. He said:\n\nIt is my deep conviction that we have reached a turning point in our country's efforts to guarantee freedom and equality to all our citizens. Recent events in the United States and abroad have made us realize that it is more important today than ever before to insure that all Americans enjoy these rights. When I say all Americans—I mean all Americans.\n\nOn February 2, 1948, Truman sent the first comprehensive civil rights bill to Congress. It incorporated many of the thirty-five recommendations of his commission. In July 1948, over the objection of senior military officers, Truman issued Executive Order 9981, banning racial discrimination in the U.S. Armed Forces, and Executive Order 9980 to integrate the federal government. (Facilities had been segregated under President Woodrow Wilson). This was in response to a number of incidents against black veterans, most notably the Woodard case. The armed forces and federal agencies led the way in US for integration of the workplace, public facilities and schools. Over the decades, the decision meant that both institutions benefited from the contributions of minorities.\n\nNevertheless, polls showed opposition to Truman's civil rights efforts. They likely cost him some support in his 1948 reelection bid against Thomas Dewey. Although Truman narrowly won, Gardner believes that his continued championing of civil rights as a federal priority cost him much support, especially in the Solid South. Southern Democrats had long exercised outsize political power in Congress, having disfranchised most blacks there since the turn of the 20th Century, but benefiting by apportionment based on total population. Truman's efforts threatened other changes, since numerous communities across the country had restrictive covenants that were racially discriminatory. Because of his low approval ratings and a bad showing in early primaries, Truman chose not to seek re-election in 1952, though he could have done so. He had been exempted from the term limitations under the 22nd amendment.\n\nWelles revisited the Woodard case in the May 7, 1955, broadcast of his BBC TV series, \"Orson Welles' Sketch Book\". Guthrie later recalled, \"I sung 'The Blinding of Isaac Woodard' in the Lewisohn Stadium (in New York City) one night for more than 36,000 people, and I got the loudest applause I've ever got in my whole life.\"\n\nIn January 2019, a new book about the Woodard story and its aftermath, \"Unexampled Courage: The Blinding of Isaac Woodard and the Awakening of President Harry S. Truman and Judge J. Waties Waring\", was published; it was written by Federal Judge Richard Gergel. \n\nWoodard's \"drunk and disorderly\" conviction was vacated in 2018.\n\nA group led by Don North, a retired Army major from Carrollton, Georgia, received permission from the state of South Carolina to erect a historical marker regarding Woodard in Batesburg-Leesville. In 2019 the marker was unveiled. The bottom part of the marker was written in Braille.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1844510", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844510", "title": "USS Turner", "text": "USS Turner\n\nUSS \"Turner\" may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1844512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844512", "title": "Revolutionary Communist Party (Chile)", "text": "Revolutionary Communist Party (Chile)\n\nRevolutionary Communist Party () was a pro-China communist party in Chile founded in 1966. The founders of PCR belonged to ESPARTACO (led by the Valparaíso senator Jaime Barros Pérez Cotapos), a group that had been expelled from the Communist Party of Chile (PCCh), and Revolutionary Communist Union, another splinter group of PCCh. PCR was led by Jorge Palacios and David Benquis.\n\nPCR published \"El Pueblo\" and \"Causa Marxista-Leninista\".\n\nPCR dissolved in internal strife. One section would refound itself as the Communist Organization Recabarren in 1985.\n"}
{"id": "1844527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844527", "title": "Exponential dichotomy", "text": "Exponential dichotomy\n\nIn the mathematical theory of dynamical systems, an exponential dichotomy is a property of an equilibrium point that extends the idea of hyperbolicity to non-autonomous systems.\n\nIf\n\nis a linear non-autonomous dynamical system in R with fundamental solution matrix Φ(\"t\"), Φ(0) = \"I\", then the equilibrium point 0 is said to have an \"exponential dichotomy\" if there exists a (constant) matrix \"P\" such that \"P\" = \"P\" and positive constants \"K\", \"L\", α, and β such that\n\nand\n\nIf furthermore, \"L\" = 1/\"K\" and β = α, then 0 is said to have a \"uniform exponential dichotomy\".\n\nThe constants α and β allow us to define the \"spectral window\" of the equilibrium point, (−α, β).\n\nThe matrix \"P\" is a projection onto the stable subspace and \"I\" − \"P\" is a projection onto the unstable subspace. What the exponential dichotomy says is that the norm of the projection onto the stable subspace of any orbit in the system decays exponentially as \"t\" → ∞ and the norm of the projection onto the unstable subspace of any orbit decays exponentially as \"t\" → −∞, and furthermore that the stable and unstable subspaces are conjugate (because formula_4).\n\nAn equilibrium point with an exponential dichotomy has many of the properties of a hyperbolic equilibrium point in autonomous systems. In fact, it can be shown that a hyperbolic point has an exponential dichotomy.\n\n"}
{"id": "1844542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844542", "title": "Salama Moussa", "text": "Salama Moussa\n\nSalama Moussa (or Musa; 1887 – 4 August 1958) (  , ), born into a wealthy, land owning Coptic family in the town of Zagazig located in the Nile delta, Egypt. Salama Musa was a journalist, writer, advocate of secularism, and pioneer of Egyptian socialism. He wrote or translated 45 published books; his writings still influence Arab thought and he is frequently referred to. Salama Musa campaigned against traditional religion and urged Egyptian society to embrace European culture. He looked for political and economic independence of Egypt from the British colonization. To this end he corresponded with Gandhi who provided him with his tools of economic struggle against the British hegemony over the Indian textile industry. Mousa made use of his contact with Gandhi in helping out the national Egyptian industrialist Tala'at Harb (1867-1941) to set up independent outlets for the Egyptian textile industry nationwide in Egypt - an attempt that was vehemently resisted by the British colonial powers of the time. Mousa pleaded, for instance, in his book \"Ha'ula'i 'allamuni\" (\"Those who inspired me\", Cairo, 1953) for the independence of thought and indigenous creativity of the contemporary Egyptians and Arabs. Mousa went in his youth to England and adhered there to Bernard Shaw's Fabian Society.\n\nMusa's father died when Salama Musa was still a young child, leaving the family an inheritance that allowed them to live comfortably. Salama Musa received his elementary education in a Coptic school, but in 1903 he moved to Cairo to receive a secondary education. The Khedivial College where Musa attended was run like a military camp with harsh punishment for misbehavior dished out by the British instructors. In Cairo during the early 20th century there was rising anti-British sentiment rooted in the nationalist movement, and Qasim Amin's movement for the liberation of women was creating a stir. While in Cairo, Musa was exposed to writers such as Farah Antun, Jurji Zaydan, and Ahmad Lutfi Al-Sayyid that discussed modern and at the time radical ideas such as Social Darwinism, women’s rights, and nationalism. Growing up as a religious minority in Muslim dominated Egypt he was attracted to these ideas. After secondary school Musa was interested in studying European literature and science, but was unable to receive a postsecondary education in Egypt, because this advanced education was monopolized by Al Azhar and Dar al-‘Ulum, both of which required students to be Muslim.\n\nIn 1907, Musa traveled to France to continue his education and he was exposed to a modern, secularized Europe rampant with socialist ideologies. Musa also experienced a new and empowered woman with social freedoms. In Montlhéry, a small village near Paris, he started studying socialism and evolution, and the French language.\n\nMusa studied Egyptian civilization upon his return to Egypt in 1908. In 1909 he moved to England to improve his knowledge of the English language, and briefly studied law at Lincoln's Inn. In England, socialism was on the rise as well as ideas of Social Darwinism, Musa had a lot of interactions with members of the Fabian Society and became a member in July 1909. Musa embraced Fabian ideas of getting rid of the landed classes and empowering the peasant the ideas, and wanted to realize them in Egypt.\n\nIn 1910, he wrote his first book, \"Muqaddimat al-superman\", comparing European life with the lives of the Egyptians and the social injustices they faced on a daily basis. In 1914, Salama Musa returned to Egypt and started his first weekly magazine, \"Al-Mustaqbal\", with Farah Antun and Yaqub Sarruf on topics such as evolution, national unity, and socialism. The British-controlled government responded to these radical ideas by shutting down the magazine after 16 issues.\n\nThe 1920s were an active time for Musa as well as Egypt and were considered a revolutionary period in culture and literature; Musa formed a socialist party, which was promptly dissolved under pressure and intimidation by the government. In the same year, he proceeded to establish the Egyptian Academy for Scientific Education, which was, after only 10 years of operation, shut down by the government as well.\n\nMusa wanted Egypt to shift to a Europeanized thought and abandon old traditions and customs regarding the role of women in Egyptian life and secularism and so was criticized and attacked. In 1936, he proclaimed that socialism would sweep Egypt before he turned 100 years old. He spent a brief stint as editor for the social affairs ministry and, in 1942, Musa was jailed on charges of sabotage, which were trumped up charges for criticizing the ruling family.\n\nThe 1952 revolution was a turning point in Egyptian history where Nasserism was taking hold and nationalization of Egypt had begun. Salama Musa remained an important figure during this period and was appointed supervisor of the science section in Akhbar el-Yom, a position that he held until his death in 1958.\n\nSalama Musa believed that the minority Copts were descended from the Pharaohs and therefore the true Egyptians. He fought to try to get the Egyptian dialect taught as the official language.\n\nIn the 1930s Musa affirmed his belief in a shared humanity and was an advocate of secularism, democracy, and the liberation of women. Salama Musa at this time supported workers' and peasants' rights, an improved working environment, and reforms in public education. Seminars led by Musa discussing social issues drew large crowds of young intellectuals. However, Musa abandoned these ideas in the mid 1940s and retreeted to Coptic communalism.\n\nSalama Moussa became seriously ill and died on 4 August 1958, a few months after turning 71.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1844546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844546", "title": "Delaware Nation", "text": "Delaware Nation\n\nDelaware Nation, also known as the Delaware Tribe of Western Oklahoma and sometimes called the Absentee or Western Delaware, based in Anadarko, Oklahoma is one of three federally recognized tribes of Delaware Indians in the United States, along with the Delaware Indians based in Bartlesville, Oklahoma and the Stockbridge-Munsee Community of Wisconsin. Communities also reside in Canada.\n\nDelaware Nation has 1,696 enrolled members in 2020, of which 1,035 live in Oklahoma. As of March 2019, Delaware Nation membership was changed from minimum blood quantum of 1/8 blood to Lineal Descendancy by vote during a Secretarial Election.\n\nThe Delaware Nation's tribal complex is located north of Anadarko, Oklahoma on Highway 281. Their tribal jurisdictional area is located within Caddo County, Oklahoma. They operate their own housing authority and issue tribal vehicle tags.\n\nThe tribe's current administration is as follows.\n\n\nThe nation's annual economic impact was estimated at $5 million in 2010. Their tribal casino, Gold River Bingo and Casino, is located north of Anadarko. In August 2012, the Delaware Nation opened Casino Oklahoma located in Hinton, OK.\n\nThe Delaware peoples traditionally spoke the Delaware language (also known as the Lenape language), Munsee and Unami, two closely related languages of the Eastern Algonquian subgroup of the Algonquian language family.\n\nThe Lenape people were divided into three dialectal divisions, which later became the basis for the three Clans of the Lenape. These divisions were the \"Monsi\" (Munsee) or Wolf, the \"Unami\" or Turtle, and the \"Unilactigo\" or Turkey. Today the clans are known as the \"Tùkwsit\" (Wolf Clan), \"Pùkuwànko\" (Turtle Clan), and \"Pële\" (Turkey Clan). The Delaware Nation is the \"Pùkuwànko\" (Turtle Clan).\n\nThe Delaware Nation was the first Indian nation to enter into a treaty with the newly formed government of the United States; the treaty was signed on September 17, 1778.\n\nThe Oklahoma branches were established in 1867, with the purchase of land by Delaware from the Cherokee Nation; they made two payments totaling $438,000. A court dispute followed over whether the sale included citizenship rights for the Delaware within the Cherokee Nation. The Curtis Act of 1898 dissolved tribal governments and ordered the allotment of tribal lands to individual members of tribes. The Lenape fought the act in the courts but lost, and in 1867 the courts ruled that they had only purchased rights to the land for their lifetimes. The lands were allotted in lots in 1907, with any land left over sold to non-Indians.\n\nThe tribe became federally recognized on July 5, 1958 as the \"Delaware Tribe of Western Oklahoma.\" They ratified their current constitution in 1972. In November 1999, the tribe officially changed its name to the Delaware Nation.\n\nIn September 2000 the Delaware Nation of Oklahoma received 11.5 acres of land in Thornbury Township, Delaware County, Pennsylvania\n\nIn 2004 the Delaware of Oklahoma sued Pennsylvania over land lost in 1800. This was related to the colonial government's Walking Purchase of 1737, an agreement of doubtful legal veracity. The court held that the justness of the extinguishment of aboriginal title is nonjusticiable, including in the case of fraud. Because the extinguishment occurred prior to the passage of the first Indian Nonintercourse Act in 1790, that Act did not avail the Delaware.\n\nAs a result the court granted the Commonwealth's motion to dismiss. In its conclusion the court stated: ... we find that the Delaware Nation's aboriginal rights to Tatamy's Place were extinguished in 1737 and that, later, fee title to the land was granted to Chief Tatamy-not to the tribe as a collectivity.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1844548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844548", "title": "La Wally", "text": "La Wally\n\nLa Wally is an opera in four acts by composer Alfredo Catalani, to a libretto by Luigi Illica, first performed at La Scala, Milan, on 20 January 1892.\n\nThe libretto is based on a hugely successful ' by Wilhelmine von Hillern (1836–1916), ' (\"The Vulture Wally: A Story from the Tyrolean Alps\"). Wally, short for Walburga, is a girl with some heroic attributes. The story is based on an episode in the life of Tyrolean painter Anna Stainer-Knittel whom von Hillern met. She gets her \"Geier\" (vulture) epithet from once stealing a vulture's hatchling from her nest. Von Hillern's piece was originally serialized in \"Deutsche Rundschau\", and was reproduced in English as \"A German Peasant Romance\", in the \"Cornhill Magazine\" in July 1875.\n\nThe opera is best known for its aria \"\" (\"Well, then? I'll go far away,\" act 1, sung when Wally decides to leave her home forever). American soprano Wilhelmenia Fernandez sang this aria in Jean-Jacques Beineix's 1981 movie \"Diva\" – a performance at the heart of the thriller. Catalani had composed this aria independently as \"\" in 1878 and later incorporated it into his opera.\n\nThe opera features a memorable operatic death in which the heroine throws herself into an avalanche. It is seldom performed, partly because of the difficulty of staging this scene, but Wally's principal aria is still sung frequently.\n\nThe story is set in the Austrian Tyrol where the free-spirited but vulnerable Wally is in love with the handsome Giuseppe Hagenbach, the son of her father's implacable enemy. This leads to the inevitable disastrous conclusion.\n\n\"The village of Hochstoff\"\n\nA shooting contest is being held in celebration of the 70th birthday of Wally's father, Stromminger. A hunting party arrives from the nearby village of Sölden led by Hagenbach. Old enmities quickly surface and a quarrel develops between Stromminger and Hagenbach, who trade threats and insults before Hagenbach is drawn away by his companions.\n\nVincenzo Gellner has his own heart set on Wally and is quick to notice that during the quarrel she is clearly infatuated with her father's enemy. When left alone with Stromminger, he tells the old man of his suspicions. Recognising that Gellner is in love with his daughter, he insists that Wally agree to marry him within a month or else leave his house forever. Wally retorts that she would rather take her chances in the Alpine snows than marry Gellner.\n\n\"The Eagle Tavern at Sölden\"\n\nA year has passed; Stromminger has died and Wally has inherited his fortune. However, Hagenbach has become engaged to Afra, the landlady of the Eagle Tavern, and is apparently not interested in Wally.\n\nA festival is taking place in Sölden and Wally is drawn to the tavern knowing that Hagenbach will be there. Hagenbach is persuaded to accept a challenge to try to win a kiss from Wally. What begins as a game quickly develops into something more serious, and Hagenbach easily wins his wager. When Wally realises she has been the victim of a cynical bet, her jealousy and fury boil over. She turns to Gellner, who is also at the festival, and insists that if he loves her he must kill Hagenbach.\n\n\"A ravine\"\n\nLa Wally returns to her home. The anger she felt has now subsided and she wishes she could take back her words. At that moment there is a knock at her door. It is Gellner, who describes how under cover of darkness he was able to set upon Hagenbach and hurl him into a deep ravine.\n\nWally is horrified and hurries to the ravine in the hope of saving Hagenbach, even though she believes he loves Afra. She herself goes down a rope to rescue him and successfully raises his unconscious body back to the surface.\n\n\"High in the Alps\"\n\nLonely and depressed, Wally has climbed into the mountains above the village. Her only friend, Walter, has followed and urges her to come down for the Christmas festivities and reminds her of the dangers of avalanches. She sends him away and contemplates her imminent death.\n\nWally hears another voice. It is Hagenbach, who has recovered from his injuries and come to confess his love. The lovers are reconciled and Hagenbach goes to find a safe path back down the mountain. He shouts up to Wally, but the noise of his call sets off an avalanche which carries him away. Wally stands for a moment on the edge of the precipice before hurling herself down to her death.\n\n\n\nNotes\nSources\n\n"}
{"id": "1844555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844555", "title": "1999 Saarland state election", "text": "1999 Saarland state election\n\nThe 1999 Saarland state election was held on 5 September 1999 to elect the members of the Landtag of Saarland. The incumbent Social Democratic Party (SPD) government led by Minister-President Reinhard Klimmt was defeated. The Christian Democratic Union (CDU) won a narrow majority of one seat. CDU leader Peter Müller was subsequently elected Minister-President.\n\nThe table below lists parties represented in the previous Landtag of Saarland.\nSummary of the 5 September 1999 election results for the Landtag of Saarland\n! colspan=\"2\" | Party\n! Votes\n! +/-\n! Seats \n! Seats %\n! colspan=8|\n! align=right colspan=2| Total\n! align=right| 557,337\n! align=right| 100.0\n! align=right| \n! align=right| 51\n! align=right| ±0\n! align=right| \n! align=right colspan=2| Voter turnout\n! align=right| \n! align=right| 68.7\n! align=right| 14.8\n! align=right| \n! align=right| \n! align=right| \n\n"}
{"id": "1844557", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844557", "title": "Jishou", "text": "Jishou\n\nJishou (; Tujia: Jiersouv) is a county-level city and the seat of Xiangxi Tujia and Miao Autonomous Prefecture, Hunan province, China.\n\nLocated on the west of the province, the city is bordered to the northwest by Huayuan and Baojing Counties, to the northeast by Guzhang County, to the southeast by Luxi County, to the southwest by Fenghuang County. Jishou City covers , as of 2015, It had a registered population of 301,000 and a resident population of 286,400. Jishou has four subdistricts, five towns and a township under its jurisdiction, the seat of the city is Qianzhou Subdistrict ().\n\nJishou has a history of more than 2,000 years dating back to the Qin dynasty. In those days, it was affiliated with Qianzhong Prefecture (). During the Song dynasty, a town government was established in a stockaded village, Zhenxi (), which in the Ming dynasty became the Zhenxi soldiers and civilians battalion (). Qianzhou Prefecture () was created during the Qing dynasty. During the Republic of China era it was known as Qian County () In 1953 the area was renamed Jishou county, with two adjacent cities, Jishou and Qianzhou. In 1982 Jishou city became the capital of Xiangxi Tujia and Miao Autonomous Prefecture. The city of Qianzhou () now lies just south of Jishou city.\n\nJishou lies east of the Wuling Mountain range. About 80% of the city's terrain is low hills or low mountains. The highest elevation is 964.5 meters, at Liantaifeng (, near the town of Aizhai () and the lowest point is 142 meters, near the town of Hexi (). The Dong River (), a tributary of the Yuan River, runs west to east through the city.\nJishou County had a population of 291,200 in the year 2008, including an agricultural population of 163,100, or 56% of the population. The urban population was 192,500. About 77.3% of the population belonged to the Miao or Tujia minorities, with 121,000 Miao and 101,200 Tujia. Members of China's predominant Han ethnic group comprise the rest of the population.\n\nJishou has two institutions of higher education:\n\nIn 2001, the Gross Domestic Product in Jishou was 19.45 billion yuan, with a revenue of 1.45 billion yuan. Jishou produces fruits, especially kiwis and oranges, vegetables, livestock and poultry, and tobacco. Tourism is becoming an important industry, since the ancient city of Fenghuang, is about 30 minutes away and Dehang National Park is about 40 minutes away.\n\nAccording to preliminary estimation, the gross domestic product in 2018 was CN￥16,762 million ($2,533 million), up by 10.1 percent over the previous year. Of this total, the value added of the primary industry was CN￥716 million ($108 million), up by 3.5 percent, that of the secondary industry was CN￥4,841 million ($732 million), up by 11.8 percent and that of the tertiary industry was CN￥11,206 million ($1,693 million), up by 9.8 percent. The value added of the primary industry accounted for 4.27 percent of the GDP; that of the secondary industry accounted for 28.88 percent; and that of the tertiary industry accounted for 66.85 percent. The GDP per capita in 2018 was CN￥44,849 ($6,777), up by 5.9 percent compared with the previous year.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1844560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844560", "title": "Ise-class battleship", "text": "Ise-class battleship\n\nThe were a pair of dreadnought battleships built for the Imperial Japanese Navy (IJN) during World War I. Both ships carried supplies for the survivors of the Great Kantō earthquake in 1923. They were modernized in 1934–1937 with improvements to their armour and machinery and a rebuilt superstructure in the pagoda mast style. Afterwards they played a minor role in the Second Sino-Japanese War.\n\nDespite the expensive reconstructions, both vessels were considered obsolete by the eve of the Pacific War, and neither saw significant action in the early years of the war. Following the loss of most of the IJN's large aircraft carriers during the Battle of Midway in mid-1942, they were rebuilt with a flight deck replacing the rear pair of gun turrets to give them the ability to operate an air group of floatplanes. A lack of aircraft and qualified pilots, however, meant that they never actually operated their aircraft in combat. While awaiting their air group, the sister ships were occasionally used to ferry troops and material to Japanese bases. They participated in the Battle off Cape Engaño in late 1944, where they decoyed the American carrier fleet supporting the invasion of Leyte away from the landing beaches. Afterwards both ships were transferred to Southeast Asia; in early 1945 they participated in Operation Kita, where they transported petrol and other strategic materials to Japan. The sisters were then reduced to reserve until they were sunk during American airstrikes in July. After the war they were scrapped in 1946–1947.\n\nThe design of the \"Fusō\"-class battleships was shaped both by the ongoing international naval arms race and a desire among Japanese naval planners to maintain a fleet of capital ships powerful enough to defeat the United States Navy in an encounter in Japanese territorial waters. The IJN's fleet of battleships had proven highly successful in 1905, the last year of the Russo-Japanese War, which culminated in the destruction of the Russian Second and Third Pacific Squadrons at the Battle of Tsushima.\n\nIn the aftermath, the Japanese Empire immediately turned its focus to the two remaining rivals for imperial dominance in the Pacific Ocean: Britain and the United States. Satō Tetsutarō, a Japanese Navy admiral and military theorist, speculated that conflict would inevitably arise between Japan and at least one of its two main rivals. To that end, he called for the Japanese Navy to maintain a fleet with at least 70% as many capital ships as the US Navy. This ratio, Satō theorized, would enable the Imperial Japanese Navy to defeat the US Navy in one major battle in Japanese waters in any eventual conflict. Accordingly, the 1907 Imperial Defence Policy called for the construction of a battle fleet of eight modern battleships, each, and eight modern armoured cruisers, each. This was the genesis of the Eight-Eight Fleet Program, the development of a cohesive battle line of sixteen capital ships.\n\nThe launch of in 1906 by the Royal Navy raised the stakes, and complicated Japan's plans. Displacing and armed with ten guns, \"Dreadnought\" rendered all existing battleships obsolete by comparison. The launch of the battlecruiser the following year was a further setback for Japan's quest for parity. When the two new s and two armoured cruisers, launched by 1911, were outclassed by their British counterparts, the Eight-Eight Fleet Program was restarted.\n\nThe first battleships built for the renewed Eight-Eight Fleet Program were the two dreadnoughts of the , ordered in 1907 and laid down in 1908. In 1910, the Navy put forward a request to the Diet (parliament) to secure funding for the entirety of the program at once. Because of economic constraints, only four battlecruisers and a single battleship of the \"Fusō\" class were ultimately approved by the Diet. Three more \"Fusō\"-class ships (, , and ) were approved and all three were ordered in April 1913. While \"Yamashiro\" was laid down later that year, the IJN lacked the funding to proceed with the construction of \"Ise\" and \"Hyūga\" until the Diet authorized additional funding for the ships in July 1914.\n\nThe progress of \"Fusō\"s construction, while the IJN waited for the funding to be released and foreign developments, caused the IJN to reassess the \"Fusō\"-class design. The distribution of the midships gun turrets was the most obvious flaw as they complicated the protection of the midships magazine and exposed more of the ship to the blast effects of the guns when they fired. Another issue was that Japanese sailors had problems maintaining a high rate of fire with the shells used in the manually loaded secondary guns used in the \"Fusō\" class and earlier designs. To resolve this issue, the IJN designed a smaller gun that offset its lighter shell weight with a higher rate of fire. It also decided that the barbette armour of the earlier ships was too thin and wanted a modest increase in speed to partially counter the higher speeds of the latest foreign ships like the British s and Russian s. For financial reasons more powerful engines could not be ordered so the new design was lengthened slightly and the boiler rooms enlarged to increase speed by to . To save weight the forecastle deck was shortened so that the lower midships gun turret was lower than in the \"Fusō\" class. This reduced the crew's accommodations despite a significant increase in the crew's numbers and naval historian Fukui Shizuo believed that these ships had the worst habitability of any Japanese capital ship. The final design was designated A-92 by the IJN.\n\nThe ships had a length of overall, a beam of and a draught of at deep load. They displaced at normal load and at deep load, roughly more than the preceding class. Their crew consisted of 1,360 officers and enlisted men. They had a metacentric height of at deep load.\n\nDuring the ships' modernization during the 1930s, their forward superstructures were enlarged with multiple platforms added to their tripod foremasts. Both ships were also given torpedo bulges to improve their underwater protection and to compensate for the weight of the additional armour. In addition, their sterns were lengthened by . These changes increased their overall length to , their beam to and their draft to . Their displacement increased over to at deep load. The crew now numbered 1,376 officers and enlisted men.\n\nThe \"Ise\"-class ships had two sets of direct-drive steam turbines, each of which drove two propeller shafts with propellers. The high-pressure turbines drove the wing shafts while the low-pressure turbines drove the inner shafts. The turbines were designed to produce a total of (\"Hyūga\" and \"Ise\" respectively), using steam provided by 24 Kampon Ro Gō water-tube boilers at working pressures of . Both ships comfortably exceeded their designed speed of during their sea trials; \"Ise\" reached from and \"Hyūga\" exceeded that with from . Each of the boilers consumed a mixture of coal and oil and the ships had a stowage capacity of of coal and of fuel oil, which gave them a range of at a speed of . \"Ise\" and \"Hyūga\" had three generators of capacity and two turbo generators at 225 volts.\n\nDuring their 1930s modernization, the boilers on each ship were replaced by eight new Kampon oil-fired boilers, fitted into the former aft boiler room, and the forward funnel was removed. The turbines were replaced by four geared Kampon turbines with a designed output of intended to increase their speed to . On her trials, \"Ise\" reached a top speed of from . The fuel storage of the ships was increased to a total of of fuel oil that gave them a range of at a speed of .\n\nThe twelve 45-calibre Type 41 guns of the \"Ise\" class were mounted in three pairs of twin-gun, superfiring turrets. Numbered one through six from front to rear, each turret weighed . The hydraulically powered turrets had an elevation capability of −5/+20 degrees. The guns had a rate of fire of 1.5–2 rounds per minute and could be loaded at any angle between −3 and +20 degrees. In 1921 the elevation was increased to +30 degrees and then to +43 degrees during their mid-1930s modernization, except for No. 6 turret as its supporting structure could not be lowered. The recoil mechanism of the guns was also changed from a hydraulic to a pneumatic system, which allowed for a faster firing cycle of the main guns.\n\nBy World War II, the guns used Type 91 armour-piercing, capped shells. Each of these shells weighed and was fired at a muzzle velocity of . They had a maximum range of at +20 degrees of elevation and at +43 degrees after modernization. Also available was a high-explosive shell that had a muzzle velocity of . A special Type 3 \"Sanshikidan\" incendiary shrapnel shell was developed in the 1930s for anti-aircraft use.\n\nThe ships' secondary armament consisted of twenty 50-calibre Type 3 guns. Eighteen of these were mounted in casemates in the forecastle and superstructure and the remaining pair were mounted on the deck above them and protected by gun shields. They had a maximum elevation of +20 degrees which gave them a range of . Each gun had a rate of fire of up to 10 rounds per minute. Anti-aircraft defence was provided by four 40-calibre 3rd Year Type 8-centimetre AA guns in single mounts. The high-angle guns had a maximum elevation of +75 degrees, and had a rate of fire of 13 to 20 rounds per minute. They fired a projectile with a muzzle velocity of to a maximum height of . The ships were also fitted with six submerged torpedo tubes, three on each broadside. They carried twelve to eighteen 6th Year Type torpedoes which had a warhead. They had three settings for range and speed: at , at , or at .\nIn 1931–1933 the AA guns were replaced with eight 40-calibre Type 89 dual-purpose guns, fitted on both sides of the forward superstructures in four twin-gun mounts. When firing at surface targets, the guns had a range of ; they had a ceiling of at their maximum elevation of +90 degrees. Their maximum rate of fire was 14 rounds a minute, but their sustained rate of fire was around eight rounds per minute. Two twin-gun mounts for license-built Vickers two-pounder () light AA guns were also added. These guns had a maximum elevation of +80 degrees and a rate of fire of 200 rounds per minute. The pair of 14 cm guns on the upper deck were removed at this time.\n\nDuring the mid-1930s reconstruction, the torpedo tubes were removed and the Vickers two-pounders were replaced by twenty license-built Hotchkiss Type 96 light AA guns in 10 twin-gun mounts. This was the standard Japanese light AA gun during World War II, but it suffered from severe design shortcomings that rendered it a largely ineffective weapon. According to historian Mark Stille, the twin and triple mounts \"lacked sufficient speed in train or elevation; the gun sights were unable to handle fast targets; the gun exhibited excessive vibration; the magazine was too small, and, finally, the gun produced excessive muzzle blast\". These guns had an effective range of , and an effective ceiling of at an elevation of 85 degrees. The maximum effective rate of fire was only between 110 and 120 rounds per minute because of the frequent need to change the fifteen-round magazines. In addition the forward pair of 14 cm guns in the forecastle were removed at this time and the maximum elevation of the remaining guns was increased to +30 degrees.\n\nThe \"Ise\"-class ships' waterline protective belt had a maximum thickness of of Vickers cemented armour amidships; below it was a strake of armour. The upper armoured deck consisted of two layers of high-tensile steel thick and the lower armoured deck also consisted of two layers of high-tensile steel, but only thick. The sides of this deck sloped downwards to meet the bottom of the lower strake of the belt armour. The ends of the belt armour were closed off by bulkheads that ranged in thickness from . The turrets were protected with an armour thickness of on the face and 76 mm on the roof. The casemate armour was thick and that of the barbettes was 299 mm thick rather than the originally planned 305 mm. The sides of the conning tower were 305 mm thick.\n\nThe \"Ise\" class were the only Japanese battleships to place the powder magazine above the shell magazine as the IJN wished to put as much space as possible between the highly flammable propellant and mine and torpedo detonations. The danger from plunging shells at long distances was not appreciated until the fatal magazine explosions of three British battlecruisers during the 1916 Battle of Jutland graphically demonstrated the point. To further protect the magazines the depth of the double bottom was increased to a total of underneath the barbettes and magazines. Additionally, the vessels contained 660 watertight compartments to preserve buoyancy in the event of battle damage. In addition to the torpedo bulge added when the ships were modernized, the deck armour over the machinery and magazines was increased to a total thickness of 140 mm. Inside the original skin of the ships, two torpedo bulkheads were also added and the turret roofs were increased to a total of of armour.\n\nWhile the details of the ships' fire-control instruments are not fully available, it is known that the ships were fitted with a fire-control director after completion. No computer was fitted at that time and data from the rangefinders had to be processed manually. Turrets 2, 3, and 5 were built with imported Bausch & Lomb rangefinders. These were felt to be inferior to the British Barr & Stroud instruments used on other ships and were removed in 1920. They were replaced by either the British rangefinders or domestically built instruments of length. In the late 1920s the fire-control systems were upgraded and additional platforms were added to the foremast to accommodate them. A pair of directors for the 12.7 cm AA guns were added, one on each side of the forward superstructure, in the early 1930s. The fire-control systems were again upgraded in the mid-1930s and directors were added for the 25 mm AA guns. Both ships had rangefinders installed at the top of the pagoda mast at that time. Type 21 air-search radars were installed aboard the sisters in mid-1942.\n\n\"Ise\" was briefly fitted with an aircraft flying-off platform for a Mitsubishi 1MF3 fighter on Turret No. 2 in 1927. It was replaced by a platform on Turret No. 5 for a Yokosuka E1Y reconnaissance floatplane in 1928–1929. A catapult and a collapsible crane were fitted on the stern during the mid-1930s modernization, and the ships were equipped to operate three floatplanes, although no hangar was provided. The initial Nakajima E4N2 biplanes were replaced by Nakajima E8N2 biplanes in 1938.\n\nThe sinking of the British capital ships \"Prince of Wales\" and \"Repulse\" by Japanese land-based aircraft on 10 December 1941 led the IJN to realize that battleships could not operate in the face of enemy aircraft and required friendly air support to protect them. The loss of four Japanese aircraft carriers during the Battle of Midway in June 1942 severely limited the ability of the IJN to provide any air cover and alternatives were sought. Earlier proposals to convert one or more battleships into carriers had been made and rejected at the beginning of the war, but they were revived after Midway. Plans for more elaborate conversions were rejected on the grounds of expense and, most critically, time, and the IJN settled on removing the rear pair of turrets and replacing them with a flight deck equipped with two catapults to launch floatplanes. The \"Ise\"-class ships were selected for the conversion because \"Hyūga\" had suffered an explosion in Turret No. 5 in early May that virtually destroyed the turret and their Turret No. 6 could not elevate to the full +43 degrees deemed necessary for the long-range engagement anticipated by the IJN. The \"Fusō\"s were scheduled to follow once the first two were completed.\n\nThe rear turrets, the barbettes and their supporting structures were removed beginning in early 1943 and the openings in the middle deck were covered by 152 mm plates salvaged from the turret armour. All of the 14 cm guns were removed and the casemate openings sealed off. Four additional twin 12.7 cm mounts were added, one pair abreast the funnel and the other abreast the conning tower. The original ten twin 25 mm gun mounts were replaced by triple mounts and nine new triple mounts were added, a total of 57 guns. Two each Type 94 and Type 95 AA directors were added to control the additional guns. The ammunition for these new guns was stored in the magazines originally used for the 14 cm guns and for Turret No. 5. During 1944, the ships' AA defences were reinforced with an additional dozen triple and eleven single 25 mm gun mounts, for a total of 104 barrels, and a pair of Type 13 early warning radars were added. In September six 30-round AA rocket launchers were added on the sides of the flight deck.\n\nA flight deck was built above the stern and stretched forward to the rebuilt aft superstructure. The flight deck was wide at its forward end and at the stern. It overhung the stern and increased the overall length of the ships to . A pair of rotating gunpowder-propelled catapults were fitted on the sides of the hull, forward of the aft superstructure where they partially restricted the arc of fire of the two amidships turrets. They could launch aircraft up to in weight and required 30 seconds to launch each aircraft. The flight deck had eight permanent storage positions connected by rails to the catapults and the hydraulically operated aircraft lift that brought the aircraft up from the hangar below on the trolleys used to move the floatplanes about. Two aircraft were intended to be stowed on the catapults and three more in temporary positions on the flight deck for a total of thirteen.\n\nThe hangar was wide forward and at the rear. It was high and designed to stow nine aircraft. It was fitted with fire fighting foam and carbon dioxide dispensers as a result of wartime experience. The 'T'-shaped lift was wide at its forward end and wide at its aft end. It was also 12.1 metres long and had a capacity of . Petrol storage tanks with a capacity of were installed in the former magazine of Turret No. 6 to provide each aircraft with enough fuel for three sorties. To recover the aircraft the collapsible crane formerly on the stern was moved up to the port side of the flight deck. Another crane was intended on the starboard side, but it was never fitted.\n\nThe ships had an air group of 11 each of Yokosuka D4Y dive bombers (Allied reporting name \"Judy\") and Aichi E16A reconnaissance aircraft (Allied reporting name \"Paul\"). Both aircraft had development problems and neither air group ever had all of its intended aircraft. Coupled with a shortage of trained pilots, neither ship ever used its aircraft during combat.\n\nAfter the loss of the fast battleship at the Naval Battle of Guadalcanal in late 1942 to rudder damage, the IJN decided to reinforce the protection of the steering compartment and to create an auxiliary steering compartment. The protection of the former was strengthened by the addition of a concrete wall at least in thickness and some of the armour removed from the turrets was used to protect the latter. The double bottom below the former positions of aft turrets was converted to hold fuel oil; this increased the ships' endurance to at a speed of 16 knots. A pair of Type 22 surface-search radars were also fitted during the conversion.\n\nThe removal of the secondary armament, the rear turrets and their supporting structures was generally compensated by the addition of the flight deck, hangar, AA guns and more fuel, and the metacentric height increased to at full load as a result of the reduction in the displacement by over to . This also reduced the draught to . The overhang of the flight deck at the stern increased the overall length to and the beam was slightly reduced to .\n\nUpon commissioning, the sister ships were assigned to the 1st Battleship Division of the 1st Fleet. \"Hyūga\" had an explosion in one of her main gun turrets that killed 11 men and injured 25 in 1919; the following year she accidentally collided with and sank a schooner, losing two crewmen. Before the start of the Pacific War, both ships frequently exercised off the coasts of the Soviet Union, Korea and China in addition to training in Japanese waters. \"Ise\" hosted Edward, Prince of Wales, and his aide-de-camp Lieutenant Louis Mountbatten in 1922 during the prince's visit to Japan. In Korea Bay when the 1923 Great Kantō earthquake struck, they sailed to Kyushu where they loaded supplies for the victims on 4 September. Together with two other battleships and a pair of light cruisers, \"Ise\" sank the destroyer in 1926 during gunnery practice. \"Ise\"s AA armament was upgraded in 1931 and \"Hyūga\"s two years later. The latter ship was modernized in 1934–36 and \"Ise\" in 1935–37, both at Kure Naval Arsenal. During the Second Sino-Japanese War, the sisters frequently patrolled the Chinese coast in support of the blockade imposed by Japan. In August 1937 \"Hyūga\" ferried two battalions of Special Naval Landing Forces to Port Arthur. Three years later, she served as the flagship for the Emperor of the puppet state of Manchukuo, Henry Pu-yi, during his state visit to Japan in June 1940. On 15 November the ships were transferred to the 2nd Battleship Division of the 1st Fleet. The sisters were refitted in late 1940 in preparation for war, which included the fitting of external degaussing coils and additional AA directors.\n\nWhen Japan began the Pacific War on 8 December, the sisters sortied for the Bonin Islands with four other battleships and the light carrier as distant cover for the fleet attacking Pearl Harbor, and returned six days later. On 11 March 1942 \"Ise\" and \"Hyūga\" sortied from their anchorage at Hashirajima to join the unsuccessful search for the American carrier force that had attacked Marcus Island a week earlier. Similarly they pursued but did not catch the American carriers that had launched the Doolittle Raid on 18 April.\n\nDuring gunnery training on 5 May, there was a premature detonation in the left gun of \"Hyūga\"s Turret No. 5 that disabled both guns and killed 51 crewmen. Both aft magazines were flooded to douse the resulting fire and save the ship. She received temporary repairs during which the turret was removed and replaced by a circular armour plate on which three triple 25 mm gun mounts were positioned. On 11 May a valve in \"Ise\"s No. 2 engine room stuck in the open position and flooded the engine room. While under repair at Kure, both ships received prototype Type 21 radars. Commanded by Vice-Admiral Shirō Takasu, the 2nd Battleship Division set sail with the Aleutian Support Group on 28 May, at the same time that most of the Imperial Fleet began an attack on Midway Island (Operation MI).\n\nThey returned home on 14 June and the IJN began preliminary planning to replace the lost carriers with hybrid carriers converted from battleships. The sisters were selected for conversion and detached from the division on 14 July in preparation. They remained on \"standby alert\" until the actual conversions began. \"Ise\" was converted at Kure Naval Arsenal from 23 February to 5 September 1943 and \"Hyūga\" at Sasebo Naval Arsenal from 2 May to 30 November.\n\nAfter completing her sea trials, \"Ise\" was attached to the Imperial Japanese Naval Academy at Etajima and ferried troops and munitions to the naval base at Truk in October. In November the ship began working up, joined by the newly completed \"Hyūga\" the following month, and both rejoined the 2nd Battleship Division. On 1 May 1944, the sisters were transferred to Rear Admiral Matsuda Chiaki's reformed Fourth Carrier Division of the 3rd Fleet. The division's 634th Naval Air Group was formed that same day and conducted its first catapult launches in late June.\n\nIn October 1944, the two ships were involved in the Battle off Cape Engaño. Shortages of aircraft and serviceability problems greatly retarded pilot training and the ships only had a total of 17 D4Ys and 18 E16As on hand on 1 October; of these, only 6 and 16 were operational, respectively. The Japanese plan for the defence of the Philippines envisioned that the surviving carriers would be used to lure the American carrier forces away from the invasion area to a position where the carriers could be attacked by land-based aircraft, while the transports would be attacked by the rest of the IJN. The other carrier air groups were not in much better shape and the Japanese decided to retain the aircraft ashore for use against the American carriers. The Fourth Carrier Division, including the sisters, fleet carrier and the light carriers , , and , was assigned to the Northern Force under the command of Vice Admiral Jisaburō Ozawa. The \"Ise\"-class sisters sailed from Yashima on 20 October. Ozawa's carrier group was a decoy force, divested of all but 108 aircraft, intended to lure the American fleet away from protecting the transports at the landing beaches. On the morning of 24 October, the group was facing a United States Navy force that included ten carriers containing 600–1,000 aircraft. Ozawa launched the bulk of his few aircraft to attack the American carriers as a distraction. They inflicted no damage and caused the Americans to search in the direction from which they had attacked. The Americans finally spotted the Japanese carriers at 16:40, some east of Cape Engaño, the northeastern tip of Luzon. The American carriers were spread out and it was very late in the day to launch an airstrike, so Admiral William Halsey, commander of the Third Fleet decided to mass his carriers in a position to attack the following morning. Ozawa reversed course during the night, correctly believing that the Americans would follow him north.\n\nAlthough they had lost contact during the night, the Americans did find the Japanese carriers at 07:35. They had already launched an airstrike of 180 aircraft that was orbiting ahead of the American carriers while waiting for the Japanese ships to be located. This was just the first of a total of five airstrikes that the Americans launched that day. The sisters were not heavily engaged by the early airstrikes, which instead focused on Ozawa's fleet and light carriers, sinking carriers \"Zuikaku\", \"Chitose\" and \"Zuihō\", and the destroyer , while the carrier \"Chiyoda\" and the cruiser were crippled. \"Ise\" claimed to have shot down five attacking dive bombers from the second wave and one small bomb detonated on Turret No. 2. \"Hyūga\" was lightly damaged by near misses that ruptured some hull plating in her bulge and peppered her superstructure with splinters. She took on a 5-degree list that was quickly corrected before she was ordered to tow \"Chiyoda\" to safety. Her attempt was unsuccessful and \"Chiyoda\" had to be abandoned, eventually sunk by additional USN cruiser shellfire and destroyer-launched torpedoes.\n\n\"Ise\" was attacked by 80-odd aircraft from the fourth wave, but they failed to inflict any serious damage. She dodged 11 torpedoes and was only hit by a bomb once, on the bulge outboard of the port catapult. Some 34 other bombs near missed her, spraying her with splinters and ruptured some hull plates that contaminated some fuel oil and caused leaks in her port boiler rooms. While an exact total of her casualties is not available, it has been estimated that 5 men were killed and some 111–121 crewmen were wounded during this attack. \"Hyūga\" was unsuccessfully attacked by an American submarine at 18:43. Around 19:00 Ozawa learned about a force of destroyers and cruisers that drove off the Japanese destroyers rescuing survivors from some of the carriers lost earlier in the day and sank \"Chiyoda\". He ordered the Fourth Carrier Division to reverse course and engage the Americans, but the battleships were unable to find them, and Ozawa ordered them to reverse course and head for Amami Ōshima. When they arrived on 27 October, Ozawa transferred to \"Hyūga\" and hoisted his flag aboard her. While en route for Kure, the division was unsuccessfully attacked by another submarine.\n\nIn early November the catapults were removed from both ships, and they loaded troops and munitions later that month. While en route they were diverted to the Spratly Islands upon reports of heavy air raids at Manila. After off-loading their cargo, they sailed for Lingga Island, near Singapore, on 20 November. They transferred to Cam Ranh Bay, French Indochina, and \"Hyūga\" became flagship of the 5th Fleet there on 14 December. The division sailed for Singapore on 30 December and Vice Admiral Kiyohide Shima transferred his flag to the light cruiser on arrival there the following day. The division continued onwards to Lingga. Its planned return to Japan was delayed by attacks by the American Third Fleet on targets in Indochina and southern China that sank two oil tankers that were intended to refuel the division.\n\nThe IJN then decided to use the sisters and their escorts to bring a load of petrol, rubber, tin and other strategic minerals back to Japan after the American carriers departed the South China Sea (Operation Kita). They loaded their cargoes beginning on 6 February at Singapore and departed four days later. Also carrying some 1,150 oilfield workers, they were escorted by \"Ōyodo\" and three destroyers. Decrypted Japanese radio signals revealed the Japanese plan to the Allies, and 15 submarines were positioned along their anticipated route in an attempt to intercept and sink the ships. An additional 11 were moved into position while the group was en route, but only three were ultimately able to attack. None of them were successful before the Japanese reached Kure on 20 February. The Fourth Carrier Division was disbanded on 1 March and the sisters were reduced to 1st rank reserve ships. On 19 March Kure was attacked by aircraft from Task Force 58 and \"Hyūga\" was hit three times by bombs that killed 37 men and wounded 52. Her gunners claimed to have shot down one American dive bomber during the attack. \"Ise\" was hit twice during the attack, but her casualties, if any, are unknown.\nThe ships were turned into floating AA batteries over the next several months although it availed them little when they were attacked again by American carrier aircraft in July. On the 24th \"Ise\" was struck by five bombs and near missed multiple times; all told she lost 50 crewmen killed and many others wounded. The bombs started numerous leaks and \"Ise\" began to settle by the bow, although she was returned to an even keel after three days pumping. \"Hyūga\" was a primary focus of the attack and she received 10 direct hits and up to 30 near misses. She was badly damaged with some 200-odd crewmen killed and 600 wounded during the attack. She slowly foundered over the next two days and was not attacked when the Americans returned four days later. This time it was \"Ise\"s turn and she was struck 11 or more times with many near misses that put her on the bottom in shallow water with a 15 degree list. The sisters were struck off the Navy List in November and their wrecks were scrapped after the war.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1844564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844564", "title": "Open eBook", "text": "Open eBook\n\nOpen eBook (or OEB), or formally, the Open eBook Publication Structure (OEBPS), is a legacy e-book format which has been superseded by the EPUB format. It was \"based primarily on technology developed by SoftBook Press\". and on XML. OEB was released with a free version belonging to public domain and a full\nversion to be used with or without DRM by the publishing industry.\n\nOpen eBook is a ZIP file plus a Manifest file. Inside the package a defined subset of XHTML may be used, along with CSS and Dublin Core metadata. The default file extension is .opf (OEB Package Format).\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1844566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844566", "title": "Bio Zombie", "text": "Bio Zombie\n\nBio Zombie () is a 1998 Hong Kong zombie comedy film, starring Jordan Chan. It spoofs George A. Romero's \"Dawn of the Dead\" and shows many similarities to Peter Jackson's \"Braindead\".\n\nWoody Invincible and Crazy Bee are two young men selling bootlegged DVDs at a small stall in the \"New Trend Plaza\" Mall. They spend most of their days gambling and committing petty crimes. They meet Rolls, an employee at the beauty parlor, then have a run-in with Mr. Kui, the cellphone store owner. Rolls frequents a sushi bar in the mall, and flirts with the waiter Loi, who is smitten with her.\n\nElsewhere, black market dealers sell to three government agents a bioweapon which turns people into zombies. They brought a zombie to demonstrate the substance's effect, but it breaks out and kills two agents. On the way back after picking up their boss' fixed car, Woody hits the surviving agent, who is carrying a sample of a bioweapon contained in a soft drink bottle. Thinking he needs a drink, Woody pours the sample into his mouth. The two bring him back to the mall, and Woody damages the car again. The reanimated agent slips out of the car, dropping his cellphone.\n\nWoody sells the cellphone to Kui, but still doesn't have enough money to fix the car. The two then robs Rolls’ money and ring. A suspicious Rolls asks Woody to find the robbers in return for a free meal. She intends to get him drunk, so he would admit committing the robbery. At the Sushi bar, they get drunk, much to the chagrin of Loi. Woody and Rolls head to the bathroom to have sex. An anxious Loi follows them, but is injured by the zombified agent. He alerts Woody and Rolls, but the zombie is already gone when they check.\n\nRolls lets Loi rest at the beauty parlor. Loi reanimates and keeps Rolls captive as he still has affection for her. The agent retrieves his cellphone from Kui's shop. Kui accuses Woody and Bee of theft, and Ox, a security guard, calls the police. Two policemen, known only by their badge numbers, #3001 and #9466, question the Kui's, Woody and Bee. Woody and Bee's behaviors makes the officers suspicious, and #9466 eventually handcuffs them in the security guard's office. While #3001 goes around the mall to find witnesses to the theft, he is killed by Loi.\n\nThe agent burst into the security office, kills Ox and attacks #9466. The policeman kills the zombie, but dies from his injuries. Bee gets the handcuff key from #9466, and frees himself and Woody. The two heads to the mall entrance, and sees Jelly, Rolls' co-worker, who just got back after a walk. The reanimated Ox remotely closes the mall's shutter, trapping everyone inside. The three then meets the Kui's, who just had a brief run-in with a zombie, and the group hides in the beauty parlor.\n\nWoody heads out alone to call the police. He rescues Rolls while Loi is distracted fighting off the zombies coming for her. They head back to the beauty parlor, and the group decide to escape instead of waiting for rescue.\n\nThey board an elevator, but it cannot move due to the weight limit. When a zombie closes in, Kui pushes Jelly out. Disgusted, the rest of the group exits the elevator and goes back for Jelly, but finds her dead. They head to the security office, killing zombies on the way. Mrs. Kui is separated from the group and attacked by zombies. Kui, who is hiding nearby, tries to help, but is killed along with his wife. Bee arrives and, distracted by Mrs. Kui's death, is bitten.\n\nAt the security office, Woody, Rolls and Bee cannot find the security key to open the entrance door. After saying his last works, Bee is killed by Ox. Enraged, Woody beheads Ox, then cuts off Bee's head before he reanimates. Woody and Rolls head down the parking garage, now crawling with zombies. Fighting their way through the shambling undead, they reach Woody's boss’ car. Loi appears, lifts up the garage shutter, then pushes the car out so that the two can escape.\n\nAt a gas station, Woody is unable to find a working phone. He sees an emergency broadcast, which warns people against drinking soft drinks. Looking outside, Woody sees Rolls drinking from the bottle which he earlier took from the agent. Woody briefly considers killing Rolls, but instead drinks the rest of the soft drink, and the movie ends.\n\n\nVoice cast (English version):\n\nThe film grossed HK$6,207,050 at the Hong Kong box office during its theatrical run from 11 June to 30 June 1998 in Hong Kong.\n\nThe film was also released as \"Hong Kong Zombie\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1844569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844569", "title": "Coming to Power", "text": "Coming to Power\n\nComing to Power: Writings and Graphics on Lesbian S/M is a 1981 book edited by members of the lesbian feminist S/M organisation Samois. It is an anthology of lesbian S/M writings. It was a founding work of the lesbian BDSM movement.\n\nIt was quickly out-of-print and reached a worldwide audience the following year when it was reprinted by Alyson Publications. The book alternates short stories with advice on techniques, a model that has been used by various other BDSM books since then.\n\nA sequel \"\" was published in 1996, edited by Pat Califia and Robin Sweeney.\n\nMany of the authors in \"Coming to Power\" characterise sadomasochism as the epitome of eroticism.\n\nIt is described in \"Coming on Strong: Gay Politics and Culture\" as containing lesbian erotica.\n"}
{"id": "1844570", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844570", "title": "Communist Party – Red Star", "text": "Communist Party – Red Star\n\nCommunist Party – Red Star (in Spanish: \"Partido Comunista - Estrella Roja\") was a splinter group of the Peruvian Communist Party that appeared in the beginnings of the 1970s in Peru. PC-ER opposed participation in elections.\n\nIt is no longer active.\n\n"}
{"id": "1844572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844572", "title": "United Nations Association – UK", "text": "United Nations Association – UK\n\nThe United Nations Association – UK (UNA-UK) is the leading independent policy authority on the United Nations in the UK, and a UK-wide grassroots membership organisation.\n\nUNA-UK's policy work can be split into three main areas:\n\n\nAlongside these broad policy areas, UNA-UK's campaigns include:\n\nUNA-UK acts as the secretariat for The All‐Party Parliamentary Group on the United Nations (UN APPG), a cross‐party group supporting the aims and ideals of the United Nations. The UN APPG's primary objective is to raise awareness among MPs and Peers – about the UN; about its myriad contributions across the areas of peace and security, development and human rights; about the scope of international law and its relevance to the UK; and about the applicability of the UN to the people who make up the British electorate.\n\nIn partnership with UN APPG Officers, UNA-UK sets out the strategic plan for the Group for each parliamentary session and reports back on the activity of the Group to its members.\n\nThe UN APPG meets six to eight times a year to provide a platform for high‐level international speakers.\n\nEach year, UNA-UK presents the Sir Brian Urquhart Award for Distinguished Service to the UN. The award celebrates Sir Brian's unparalleled contribution to the UN, and is presented to individuals whose work reflects Sir Brian's own dedication and endeavour. During his four decades of service to the UN, Sir Brian was instrumental in creating the organisation's administrative framework. He is now a member of UNA-UK's expert advisory panel.\n\nPast recipients of the award include:\n\nIn early 2005 UNA-UK was tasked by the Foreign and Commonwealth Office to conduct a public and expert engagement process on UN reform in the lead up to the UN Millennium Review Summit in September 2005.\n\nA series of national and regional public debates were undertaken to examine the recommendations made in the UN Secretary-General's Report, In Larger Freedom. The purpose of the debates was to ensure the widest possible public input into the development of the UK government's priorities for the 2005 World Summit.\n\nThe events proved very popular, attracting a cross-section of society, including youth, trade unions, parliamentarians, NGOs, the armed services and academia. Common themes emerged: a clear and widespread support for a strengthened United Nations, and a reaffirmation of the UN's unique importance as both a forum for negotiating viable solutions to collective threats, and an instrument for taking collective action to meet diverse threats, from climate change to terrorism.\n\nUNA-UK compiled a report based on the feedback received and supplemented this with expert input.\n\nOn 28 November at Portcullis House Foreign Office Minister Lord Triesman and UNA-UK Executive Director Sam Daws launched 'In Larger Freedom in the UK'. The launch took place following a talk by Edward Mortimer, Director of Communications and Chief Speechwriter in the UN Secretary-General's Office, at the inaugural meeting of the United Nations All-Party Parliamentary Group. The audience included parliamentarians, UNA-UK members, staff from the UN family in London, civil servants and NGO representatives.\n\nUNA-UK's flagship magazine, previously titled \"New World,\" provides news, analysis and commentary on a broad spectrum of UN issues. The magazine has a specialist readership of approximately 20,000 individuals and organisations in 100 countries: readers include academic institutions, some 10,000 students and young professionals, NGOs and think tanks.\n\nThe association has been publishing news on the UN since it was founded, and has been producing New World in its current form since the 1970s. It is currently published four times a year, in print and online. Past issues of New World are available on UNA-UK's website.\n\nTo coincide with UN Day 2013, UNA-UK released a double issue of \"New World.\" The Autumn issue seeks to scope out the future trends and challenges set to feature on the UN's agenda in the coming years, and role the organization may play in shaping them.\n\nThe issue entitled 'Urgent: Diplomacy Needed', asks whether global solutions are still possible and examines why the year 2015 could prove a turning point for the world. The issue features an article by International Development Secretary Justine Greening, on the post-2015 development agenda, as well as contributions from former-MEP Stanley Johnson and Paul Ingram, the Executive Director of the British American Security Information Council.\n\nIn Dec 2012, UNA-UK launched a major publication in collaboration with Witan Media, entitled \"After the Spring: Prospects for the Arab World in 2013\". Aimed at scholars, practitioners and interested observers, the publication explores the effects and implications of the political uprisings that have swept the Middle East and North Africa since late 2010. It features contributions by over 50 experts from within and outside the region.\n\nIt covers the stories of change in Bahrain, Egypt, Libya, Syria, Tunisia and Yemen, and brings together an array of expertise on conflict resolution, reconstruction, development economics and national reconciliation. The volume seeks to bring us closer to an understanding of how the changes in the region have occurred and to offer insights into what may lie ahead.\n\nIn October 2013, UNA-UK published \"Global Development Goals: Leaving No One Behind\", produced in collaboration with Witan Media. The publication provided analysis and recommendations for the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) as well as the insights into the development of the post-2015 development agenda.\n\nContributors included UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon, UNDP Administrator Helen Clark, UK Secretary of State for International Development Justine Greening, alongside a host of other leading experts and commentators.\n\nIn an historic speech in January 2006 at Central Hall Westminster, UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan delivered a wide-ranging address under UNA-UK auspices to an audience of UNA-UK members, diplomats and civil society. Speaking of statesmanship and confidence-rebuilding, the Secretary-General outlined his vision of a UN capable of dealing with today's crises.\n\nOn 13 June 2008, UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon delivered a speech under UNA-UK's auspices in his first major public appearance in the UK. In the speech, entitled 'Securing the Common Good: The United Nations and the Expanding Global Agenda', Ban praised UNA-UK's role in cultivating constructive UK government engagement with the UN and in 'explaining the UN to the UK while helping to convey the concerns of British citizens to the UN'.\n\nUN Forum was a major UNA-UK event held on 12 June 2010 in London, based around the theme: 'A more effective UN for a more secure and just world'. Over 1,400 people participated in the event, at which H.E. Helen Clark, head of the UN Development Programme; H.E. Mary Robinson, former UN High Commissioner for Human Rights; and Dr Hans Blix, former Director-General of the International Atomic Energy Agency delivered keynote speeches. A host of panel discussions took place, as well as films & workshops on peace, development & human rights.\n\nOn Saturday 14 July 2012, two weeks before the London Olympic Games, the UNA-UK hosted UN Forum 2012. Topics of discussion included nuclear disarmament, population and human rights, among others. Speakers included former UN Deputy Secretary-General Lord Malloch-Brown, Sir Malcolm Rifkind, H.E. Karen Pierce CMG and H.E. Kamalesh Sharma. In a surprise appearance, UNA-UK Patron Sir Patrick Stewart also addressed attendees on the vital importance of the UN. With an attendance of over 1,000, the event was believed to be the largest civil society events on the UN to be held in the UK during 2012.\n\nNew Nuclear Realities, UNA Youth's 2013 conference, took place on Saturday 23 February in North London. Participants enjoyed lectures and panel debates with high-profile nuclear professionals, as well as UN careers guidance and networking opportunities. Speakers included John Ducan, former UK Ambassador for Multilateral Arms Control and Disarmament, and representatives of BASIC, IISS, ACRONYM and Chatham House. Lord Hannay of Chiswick, former UK ambassador to the UN, delivered the day's keynote speech.\n\nUNA-UK hosted H.E. Ban Ki-moon, United Nations Secretary-General, at a major public event held at London's Central Hall Westminster. During the event, Sir Jeremy Greenstock, Chairman of UNA-UK, moderated an interactive discussion with the UN Secretary-General, incorporating questions from social media and those in attendance on the day.\n\nUNA-UK hosted H.E. António Guterres, Secretary-General of the United Nations, for his first major public speech in the UK on the afternoon of 10 May at Central Hall Westminster. Following his speech, Mr Guterres took questions from the public in a session moderated by UNA-UK's Natalie Samarasinghe. During this session, the hashtag used to submit questions via Twitter was trending number one in the UK.\n\nGrowing out of the League of Nations Union, UNA-UK held its first meeting in 1945 – before the UN Charter had been finalised. In 2006, UNA-UK published a comprehensive history of the organisation, written by former UNA-UK Director Frank Field.\n\nA catalogued collection of the organisation's publications, correspondence and other materials from 1945-2011 can be found in the archives of the London School of Economics.\n\nThe UNA-UK, as a grassroots membership organisation, has a large network of volunteer-run branches which give individuals across the United Kingdom a chance to partake in UN activities. These range from speaker and fundraising events to film screenings and coffee mornings, these activities raise awareness and interest in the work of the United Nations at a local level across the country.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1844573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844573", "title": "Tha River", "text": "Tha River\n\nThe Tha River (Nam Tha) is a river in northwest Laos, and one of the 12 tributaries on the Mekong River. It gave its name to the town of Luang Namtha and the province of the same name. The name \"Nam Tha\" (ນໍ້າທາ) means 'Green River', coming from the color of the water in the river.\n"}
{"id": "1844580", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844580", "title": "Ohrbach's", "text": "Ohrbach's\n\nOhrbach's was a moderate-priced department store with a merchandising focus primarily on clothing and accessories. From its modest start in 1923 until the chain's demise in 1987, Ohrbach's expanded dramatically after World War II, and opened numerous branch locations in the New York and Los Angeles metropolitan areas. Its original flagship store was located on Union Square in New York City, and they maintained home and administrative offices in Newark as well as in Los Angeles. The retailer would eventually close the Newark offices in the 1970s. Paul László designed the Union Square store as well as many of their other stores.\n\nOhrbach's first store opened on October 4, 1923, in the fire-damaged building where Adolph Zukor operated the world's first nickelodeon. Founder Nathan M. Ohrbach launched his store with partner Max Wiesen, a dress manufacturer. After a time there was a falling-out between the partners. Wiesen refused to sell out so Ohrbach leased quarters nearby to open a second store. This move forced Wiesen to sell out.\n\nWhen Ohrbach opened his store, he believed in cutting service to the bare essentials and sharing the savings with his customers. He also priced his goods in even numbers, while most of his competitors priced their goods in odd prices. Wiesen brought women's ready-to-wear in the form of job lots, seconds, manufacturer's overstocks, and irregulars. Ohrbach sold these in large volume and at low prices. After buying out Wiesen in 1928, he added men's and children's furnishings and accessories. He started to “trade up” his women's wear and offer higher style garments. Other policies formalized at this time were no price advertising, minimum sales force, no alterations, no deliveries, cash and carry, and no special sales periods.\n\nThe growth of the fashion industry in California encouraged the company's expansion to the state. The firm employed the services of a buying office in Los Angeles as early as 1939 and by 1945 opened its own. In 1948, it leased three floors and the mezzanine in a wing of the Welton Becket– William Wurdeman designed Prudential Insurance Company building on Wilshire Boulevard’s Miracle Mile. \n\nThe success of the Miracle Mile store led the firm in 1953 to open another branch in Downtown Los Angeles when it acquired the twelve-story Milliron's building at 5th and Broadway. The success at this branch was short-lived, however; it first closed five floors as an economic move, but finally, in 1959, closed the branch because of poor results. \n\nIn the 1960s, additional branches were opened in La Mirada Mall and in 1964 a store in the San Fernando Valley's Panorama City Shopping Center (the building is now occupied by the Valley Indoor Swap Meet. In 1965, the Miracle Mile store was relocated in the former Seibu Department Store at Wilshire and Fairfax Avenue. This is the current location of the Petersen Automotive Museum.\n\nOhrbach's was an anchor of the Los Cerritos Center in Cerritos, in the 1970s. In the mid-1970s, they opened another store in the Glendale Galleria in Glendale, California. The architecture of the Cerritos and Glendale store had an unusual tile front which helped customers know which store was Ohrbach's in these new large malls with several major department stores. \n\nOhrbach's supplied clothing for the television soap operas: \"All My Children\", \"Dark Shadows\", \"The Doctors\", the short lived weekly drama \"Coronet Blue\", the comedy \"Mister Ed\", \"I Love Lucy\", \"The Donna Reed Show\", and others.\n\nIn 1954, Ohrbach's moved from its Union Square location to West 34th Street between Fifth and Sixth Avenues across from the Empire State Building. The eleven-story building was formerly occupied by McCreery's Department Stores. In 1962, the Netherlands based Brenninkmeyer Company started buying into the firm until Nathan Ohrbach's retirement in 1965 when it had complete control. In 1967, they opened their first suburban New Jersey store at The Bergen Mall.\n\nOhrbach's was one of five anchor stores located in downtown Newark, New Jersey during the last half of the 20th century. Following race rioting in July 1967, business started to fall off at downtown stores, and conditions continued to worsen during the early 1970s. In 1973, Ohrbach's announced that it would close its store in Newark following the Christmas shopping season of that year. The store closed in January 1974 following a liquidation sale, and the remaining corporate offices located on the 5th and 6th floors of the Newark building relocated to space at the 34th Street store. The company's credit operations, also headquartered in the Newark building were moved to space in the firm's Bergen Mall location. At the time of Ohrbach's departure the other department stores operating in Newark stated they were still committed to downtown, but they would start to close in 1976, and by 1992, the last remaining hold out, Macy's/Bamberger's , shuttered its downtown location.\n\nIn June 1986, Brenninkmeyer's Amcena (renamed American Retail Group in 1994) acquired Howland-Steinbach from Supermarkets General Corp and announced the shuttering of all six California locations as well as Ohrbach's flagship store on 34th Street. The remaining five stores, plus one unit under construction in the Smith Haven Mall reopened under the Steinbach banner on February 1, 1987.\n"}
{"id": "1844588", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844588", "title": "Jerzy Ignacy Lubomirski", "text": "Jerzy Ignacy Lubomirski\n\nPrince Jerzy Ignacy Lubomirski (1687–1753) was a Polish nobleman (szlachcic). Knight of the Order of the White Eagle, awarded on August 3, 1727.\n\nLubomirski was owner of Rzeszów, Rozwadów and Żelechów estates. He was Field Writer of the Crown from 1726 until 1732, General of the Crown Army, General of Saxon Army, and Colonel of Horse Guards (Gwardia konna) in 1744. Since 1746 Grand Chorąży of the Crown.\n"}
{"id": "1844591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844591", "title": "Gwili Railway", "text": "Gwili Railway\n\nThe Gwili Railway (Welsh: \"Rheilffordd Gwili\") is a Welsh heritage railway, that operates a preserved standard gauge railway line from the site of Abergwili Junction (near Carmarthen) in southwest Wales along a section of the former Carmarthen to Aberystwyth line. The original railway closed in 1965, with the track being lifted in 1975.\n\nThe broad-gauge railway was opened in 1860 from Carmarthen to Conwil (now Cynwyl) by the ill-fated Carmarthen and Cardigan Railway Company (CCR), which fell in and out of insolvency until it was eventually absorbed by the Great Western Railway. Despite hostility from GWR, the line never actually reached Cardigan - getting no further than Newcastle Emlyn.\n\nThe Manchester and Milford Railway made a junction with the CCR at Pencader, making a through route to Lampeter which, in turn, later extended to Aberystwyth. In 1872, the line became the last in Wales to be converted from Brunel's gauge to .\n\nIn its early days, the line thrived by serving the local farming and wool industries though, in the years following the First World War, this traffic gradually declined. The Second World War brought another lease of life as a relief route carrying heavy ammunition trains between south and north Wales.\n\nBetween the wars, the GWR sought to encourage traffic, opened several new halts along the route and provided camping coaches at several stations.\n\nThe route earned a reputation as a meandering rural branch; where trains trundled along, often flagged down by market-bound farmers' wives making their way across the fields to board the carriages. In fact, nearly three hours was permitted for the journey between Carmarthen and Aberystwyth.\n\nIn the post-war years, closure of the spurs off the main line began. The Branches to Aberaeron and Newcastle Emlyn closed in 1952 which left only the route between Carmarthen and Aberystwyth open to traffic. The line enjoyed a brief resurgence in the 1950s, when the Royal Train traversed the route and other new traffic included Butlins through-specials taking holidaymakers to the new camp in Pwllheli.\n\nHowever, declining passenger figures meant that the Beeching Axe was inevitable. In the end however, it was nature that struck the first blow. Heavy flooding severed the line from Aberystwyth in December 1964, this taking place in the same weekend that storms that caused the Ruabon to Barmouth Line to suffer a similar washout. The last passenger train ran along the truncated route on 22 February 1965, two Hymek diesels providing the motive power. The line remained open for freight using Hymek locomotives until around 1970, then by Class 37 locomotives. The freight traffic that kept the remainder of the line open was dominated mainly by milk traffic between Carmarthen and Lampeter where traffic was routed to both the last remaining part of the main line to Aberystwyth as far as the milk creamery at Pont Llanio (near Llanddewi-Brefi which survived until 1970, plus the Aberaeron branch as far as the milk creamery at Green Grove near Felin Fach which continued in service until discontinued by British Rail in 1973.\n\nThis resulted in the final closure of the line. Track was left in place until the summer of 1975.\n\nFollowing the line's closure, the Gwili Railway Preservation Company was formed with the ambition to preserve at least of track of the former route, from Abergwili Junction right up the Gwili Valley to the station site at Llanpumpsaint.\n\nTrack lifting had already started at the time of the formation of the new Company and, as a result, only of track north of Bronwydd Arms was left in situ, the Company being able to acquire the full stretch of trackbed from Abergwili Junction to Llanpumsaint for both rebuilding and preserving. Over time, the Railway has extended the operational length from to over , as well as reconstructing original features at Bronwydd Arms station and amassing a collection of locomotives and rolling stock.\n\nThe Gwili Railway was set up in 1975, and within three years the railway had purchased of track (between the sites of Abergwili Junction and Llanpumpsint railway station) and was running an initial steam-hauled service on a section.\n\nIn April 1978, it re-opened the section of the Carmarthen-Aberystwyth route from its base at Bronwydd Arms, ( north of Carmarthen), making it the first standard-gauge heritage railway to operate in Wales.\n\nThe railway had been working south towards Carmarthen to a new station site named \"Abergwili Junction\" built on the northern outskirts of Carmarthen, at the site of the old and former Abergwili junction.\n\nTrains on the Gwili start from Bronwydd Arms where the replica GWR station is dominated by a Signal Box saved from Llandybie railway station on the Heart of Wales Line. The Signal box, which is open to the public, was built in 1885 and has been restored to operate signalling within the station area.\n\nTypical features on the line include the gradients such as the 1 in 60 on the bank immediately north of Bronwydd Arms, the meandering River Gwili and the A484 road which are never far away and the wooded forests and sharp curves as the railway twists its way through the valley.\n\nFrom Bronwydd, the line climbs between rural hills and meadows alongside the river River Gwili past the site of the first terminus of the newly opened Gwili Railway next to the old mill at Cwmdwyfran. From here, the line continues climbing until it passes under a rusticated brick bridge at the second terminus at the now defunct Penybont station.\n\nThe line carries over a redecked bridge crossing the River Gwili. This expansion was achieved in time for its 10th anniversary celebrations in 1988. At the same time, the new terminus of Llwyfan Cerrig was opened to the public.\n\nIn 2001, a further extension built by volunteer labour was opened to a new halt at Danycoed.\nLlwyfan Cerrig (in English, Stone Platform) was a former quarrymen's halt and the Gwili Railway has created a nature trail which winds through the old quarry and emerges above the stock sheds. The station building, which originally stood at Felin Fach on the Aberaeron branch and dates from 1911, was dismantled by volunteers and re-erected in the early 1990s. It has been restored and furnished to an authentic 1950s style.\nFrom the platform, a path leads to a picnic area on the bank of the Gwili River where kingfishers and heron can sometimes be glimpsed. A miniature railway runs from this station and refreshments can be bought.\n\nFrom Llwyfan Cerrig, the line runs uphill for another with the River Gwili on one side and a rock face on the other, until it reaches the present end of the line at Danycoed (English translation being 'under the wood') where a typical GWR rural halt has been recreated.\n\nOperationally, the railway is normally run on a 'one engine in steam' basis although the facility exists to pass trains at Llwyfan Cerrig at busy periods such as Day Out With Thomas events. In recent years, the Railway has expanded the portfolio of events on offer with Dining Trains, Driver Experience days and Jazz and other themed nights now being part of the annual timetable.\n\nOn 19 July 2006 a volunteer was killed in an accident when coupling carriages together for the train that was due to run that day.\n\nRestoring the line northwards has proven to be more difficult than the Gwili Railway had initially anticipated, volunteers' high hopes of reaching either Cynwyl Elfed or Llanpumsaint having been hindered by the cost of repairing a number of bridges en route. There are a total of nine bridges between Danycoed Halt and Llanpumsaint, all of which are in poor condition and require extensive refurbishment to be made worthy for rail traffic once more. Eight of the bridges cross the River Gwili, whilst the ninth crosses a road immediately south of the site of Llanpumpsaint railway station.\n\nAn attempt was made in the early to mid 1990s to extend the railway by laying track southwards from the disused Conwil station site towards the railhead at Llwyfan Cerrig, but was frustrated by the escalating cost of repairing the three river bridges en route.\n\nBeyond Llanpumsaint, the track-bed is virtually intact through the tunnel and up to just south of the site of Pencader station; however, the Gwili Railway has no plans to extend further in that direction as it neither owns the land nor has the necessary statutory powers to operate a railway north of Llanpumsaint.\n\nThe closure of the former (now defunct) Swansea Vale Railway in 2007 resulted in a merger of that society with the Gwili. This has provided a boost to the southern extension (to Abergwili) with track materials, a footbridge, water tanks/cranes and signalling equipment from Swansea now earmarked for use on the Abergwili extension.\n\nIn 2011, over of track was laid on the southern extension to Abergwili Junction and work started to improve signalling and the level crossing at Bronwydd Arms for future passenger operation.\n\nBy 2016 the track had extended all the way down and into Abergwili Junction station itself. The extension of the railway to Abergwili Junction finally opened in July 2017, this brings the line up to a total of in length. On 1 July the extension opened for 150 invited guests, with the extension opening to the public the day after, on the 2nd.\n\nAbergwili Junction is the permanent southern terminus of the Gwili Railway. The Carmarthen East by-pass (constructed 1997 -1999) followed the course of the old line from Carmarthen to Llandeilo, rendering any extension of the line south beyond Abergwili Junction impossible.\nHowever the Aberystwyth-Carmarthen Feasibility study states there is sufficient land alongside the west side of the bypass to reconnect the 2km to Carmarthen station though it would require a new 100m skew bridge across the Afon Tywi just north of Carmarthen station.\n\n\n\nThe Gwili Railway has a collection of vintage coaches from various railway operators and companies.\n\n"}
{"id": "1844593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844593", "title": "John O'Shanassy", "text": "John O'Shanassy\n\nSir John O'Shanassy, KCMG (18 February 1818 – 5 May 1883), was an Irish-Australian politician who served as the 2nd Premier of Victoria. O'Shanassy was born near Thurles in County Tipperary, Ireland, the son of a surveyor, and came to the Port Phillip District (later Victoria) in 1839. He went into business in Melbourne as a draper, and by 1846 he was rich enough to be elected to the Melbourne City Council and to become the founding chairman of the Colonial Bank of Australasia. By the 1850s he was a major landowner and one of the wealthiest men in the colony. He also became a recognised leader of the large Irish Catholic community.\n\nO'Shanassy was elected to the inaugural Victorian Legislative Council for City of Melbourne in 1851. When Victoria gained responsible government in 1856, he was elected to the Legislative Assembly for both Melbourne and Kilmore districts, he decided to represent the latter resulting in a by-election for Melbourne. In 1868 he returned to the Council as member for Central Province, then in 1877 he went back to the Assembly as member for Belfast (later known as Port Fairy), which he represented until 1883.\n\nAlthough he had been regarded as a liberal in his early career, in the colonial Parliament O'Shanassy emerged as the leader of the conservative opposition to the reforming ministry of William Haines, although there was no formal party system in Victoria at this time. His alienation from the liberals was mainly as a result of the tariff issue: most colonial liberals were protectionists, but O'Shanassy was a free trader.\n\nWhen Haines's ministry fell in March 1857, O'Shanassy succeeded him as Premier, but his government fell in April and Haines returned to office. O'Shanassy was Premier again from March 1858 to October 1859 and his deputy was Charles Gavan Duffy. The combination of these two Irish Catholics heading up the colony's administration was a source of great consternation among the Protestant elite and ensured that sectarian issues emerged in the election of 1859.(G. Serle) However, the Duffy/O'Shanassy link strained, possibly, because O'Shanassy departed Ireland before the turmoil of 1848, while Duffy was involved in the 1848s troubles.(O'Brien) O'Shanassy was Premier again from November 1861. By the 1860s O'Shanassy had become a thorough-going conservative and his government was bitterly opposed by the liberal newspaper \"The Age\" and its fiery proprietor, David Syme. In retaliation, O'Shanassy withdrew government advertising from the paper. O'Shanassy's government was finally defeated in June 1863 over the land reform issue, and he never held office again.\n\nO'Shanassy was awarded a papal knighthood in 1859, but news of that award did not reach Victoria until early 1860. The award was pilloried in the \"Melbourne Punch\" (19 January 1860, p. 209). Further, he received CMG in 1869 and a in 1874. He retired from Parliament in February 1883, shortly before his death in Boroondara, Victoria, Australia.\n\n"}
{"id": "1844594", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844594", "title": "Alyson Books", "text": "Alyson Books\n\nAlyson Books, formerly known as Alyson Publications, was a book publishing house which specialized in LGBT fiction and non-fiction. Former publisher Don Weise described it as \"the world's oldest and largest publisher of LGBT literature\" and \"the home of award-winning books in the areas of memoir, history, humor, commercial fiction, mystery, and erotica, among many others\".\n\nFounded in Boston, USA, in 1980 by Sasha Alyson, Alyson Publications began in 1990 to sell LGBT-themed children's books, entitled \"Alyson Wonderland\". It was acquired by Liberation Publications in 1995 and sold to Regent Entertainment Media, Inc. in 2008,\nand in November, as Alyson Books, named Don Weise its publisher. He has written of his commitment to Alyson's traditional areas of specialisation, but has stated that he is keen also to embrace \"more serious nonfiction—particularly in the areas of current affairs, politics, self-help, and autobiography—as well as literary fiction and works by today's most respected LGBT authors.\" In 2010, \"Publishers Weekly\" announced that Alyson Books would switch to digital\n(e-book) publishing only, with plans to convert backlist titles in this fashion. Don Weise left Alyson at that time.\n\nAs of 2019, the URL for the Alyson Books website produces a \"DNS resolution error\" message.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1844597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844597", "title": "Ron Jans", "text": "Ron Jans\n\nRon Jans (, born 29 September 1958) is a Dutch football manager and former player.\n\nBorn in Zwolle, Overijssel, Ron Jans joined FC Groningen on 2002, and was the longest-serving head coach in the whole Eredivisie, being instrumental in the club's recent successes, including two consecutive UEFA Cup qualifications in 2005 and 2006. During his time at Groningen, Jans was known for his witty comments during press conferences and his positive attitude towards the press. He was formerly active as a German language teacher. He also appeared regularly in the Dutch television channel Nederland 3 as a UEFA Champions League analyst for the 2009–10 season.\n\nIn November 2009 he announced he will leave FC Groningen at the end of the 2009–10 season, after eight years in charge of the club, citing his desire for a new experience as the main reason behind his choice.\n\nIn February 2010 SC Heerenveen officials agreed terms with the Groningen coach for next season, the 51-year-old joined his new club at the end of the season to replace Jan de Jonge. The move was quite a controversy as SC Heerenveen and FC Groningen are great rivals in the Dutch Eredivisie. Ron Jans was seen as a Groningen FC ace and the supporters did not think much of his step to the rivals. After the news came out, the fans showed a banner saying, \"You never knew how to replace someone.\" With this message they showed their dislike of the move of the manager on the one hand and sneered at how he sometimes substituted players that hardly made any sense.\n\nJans' first season in charge of Heerenveen was mostly considered as disappointing, as he only managed to achieve an unimpressive twelfth place in the league table and was also criticized due to a number of controversial choices. His second season turned out however to be much better, thanks to his ability to get the most out of forwards Bas Dost, Luciano Narsingh, and Oussama Assaidi and drive the team into the battle for the league title by April 2012. In January 2012, it was revealed Ron Jans would depart from Heerenveen by the end of the season, with former Dutch superstar player Marco van Basten taking over from him. He led Heerenveen to direct UEFA Europa League qualification by the end of the season.\n\nHe signed to Standard Liège on 29 May 2012, but agreed with the club to end his contract on 22 October after Standard was at that time 12th in the Belgian Pro League.\n\nJans joined PEC Zwolle in 2013. In his first season, he won the KNVB Cup after beating AFC Ajax 5–1 in the final. In the 2014–15 season he led PEC Zwolle to the cup final once again and also winning the Johan Cruijff Schaal.\n\nOn 26 July 2019, \"The Athletic\" reported that Jans had been hired as the head coach of American club FC Cincinnati, and would replace interim coach Yoann Damet as soon as he obtained a work visa. FC Cincinnati officially announced the hiring on 5 August 2019, ending a months-long coach search that began with their firing of Alan Koch in May 2019. This was Jans' second time working with FC Cincinnati general manager Gerard Nijkamp, who had hired Jans in 2013 when he was technical director of PEC Zwolle. Jans' contract was set to expire on December 31, 2020, with Nijkamp having previously indicated that their coach hire would be a \"short-term solution\" to be re-evaluated ahead of the 2021 season.\n\nOn February 17, 2020, Jans resigned from his head coach position at FC Cincinnati amidst an investigation into his alleged use of a racial slur.\n\n"}
{"id": "1844599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844599", "title": "Triplicity", "text": "Triplicity\n\nIn astrology, a triplicity is a group of three signs belonging to the same element.\n\nWestern astrology assumes that each sign of the same triplicity is 120 degrees apart, forming angles to one another called trines, which are each equivalent to the 360 degrees of the circle divided by three. Trines are considered to be very powerful and yet very comfortable, free-flowing connections. This suggests that the signs in each element are very comfortable and compatible with one another and tend to have many of the same qualities in common.\n\nIn traditional astrology, the concept of triplicity embodied several factors concerning the four classical elements and were considered of particular importance. Besides the four classical elements, two other ways triplicity could be organized were by \"rulership\" type and by \"season\". However, neither are given much attention by modern astrologers. However, astrology by season, in particular has been adopted by astrologers who practice in modern Neopaganism, Druidism and Wicca.\n\nIn traditional Western astrology there are four triplicities based on the classical elements. Beginning with the first sign Aries which is a Fire sign, the next in line Taurus is Earth, then to Gemini which is Air, and finally to Cancer which is Water -- in Western astrology the sequence is always Fire, Earth, Air, & Water in that exact order. This cycle continues on twice more and ends with the twelfth and final astrological sign, Pisces. The elemental rulerships for the twelve astrological signs of the zodiac (according to Marcus Manilius) are summarized as follows:\n\n\nIn traditional astrology, each triplicity has several planetary \"rulers,\" which change with conditions of sect--that is, whether the chart is a day chart or a night chart.\n\nTriplicity rulerships are a very important essential dignity--one of the several factors used by traditional astrologers to weigh the strength, effectiveness and integrity of each planet in a chart. Many Hellenistic astrologers (for example, Dorotheus of Sidon) considered triplicity rulership the most powerful and demonstrable of the several essential dignities of a planet.\n\nTriplicity rulerships (using the \"Dorothean system\") are as follows:\n\n<div style=\"font-size:90%\">* \"(Ptolemy later modified the rulerships of Water triplicity, making Mars the ruler of the water triplicity for both day and night charts--and William Lilly concurred.)\" </div style>\n\nOne way in which triplicity rulerships were used by earlier astrologers was to divide a person's life into three periods: early, middle, and late. The condition of the triplicity ruler that is \"in sect\" in the chart is evaluated when considering the tenor of the early part of life; the ruler out of sect is examined for the middle of life; and the last third of life is evaluated by looking at the condition of the participating triplicity ruler. \"Participating\" rulers were not used after the Hellenistic period.\n\nIn medieval systems of astrology, each essential dignity was given a different weight. Domicile rulers were given 5 points of weight; exaltation rulers were given 4 points; and triplicity rulers were assigned 3 points of weight. This gives some idea of how much power medieval astrologers accorded to each essential dignity.\n\nTraditional astrology also organizes triplicities according to the actual season in which the zodiac rose. For example, Aries, Taurus, and Gemini appear during the spring season.\n\nThe triplicities of seasonal elements in ancient astrology were the following:\n\n\nIn the southern hemisphere, it is reversed.\n\n"}
{"id": "1844605", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844605", "title": "Niger Delta", "text": "Niger Delta\n\nThe Niger Delta is the delta of the Niger River sitting directly on the Gulf of Guinea on the Atlantic Ocean in Nigeria. It is typically considered to be located within nine coastal southern Nigerian states, which include: all six states from the South South geopolitical zone, one state (Ondo) from South West geopolitical zone and two states (Abia and Imo) from South East geopolitical zone. Of all the states that the region covers, only Cross River is not an oil-producing state.\n\nThe Niger Delta is a very densely populated region sometimes called the Oil Rivers because it was once a major producer of palm oil. The area was the British Oil Rivers Protectorate from 1885 until 1893, when it was expanded and became the Niger Coast Protectorate. The delta is a petroleum-rich region and has been the center of international controversy over pollution.\n\nThe Niger Delta, as now defined officially by the Nigerian government, extends over about and makes up 7.5% of Nigeria's land mass. Historically and cartographically, it consists of present-day Bayelsa, Delta, and Rivers States. In 2000, however, Obasanjo's regime included Abia, Akwa-Ibom, Cross River State, Edo, Imo and Ondo States in the region.\n\nThe Niger Delta, and the South South geopolitical zone (which contains six of the states in Niger Delta) are two different entities. The Niger Delta separates the Bight of Benin from the Bight of Bonny within the larger Gulf of Guinea.\n\nSome 31 million people of more than 40 ethnic groups including the Bini, Efik, Esan, Ibibio, Igbo, Annang, Yoruba, Oron, Ijaw, Ogba, Ikwerre, Abua/Odual, Itsekiri, Isoko, Urhobo, Ukwuani, Kalabari, Okrika, Ogoni, Epie-Atissa people and Obolo people, are among the inhabitants of the political Niger Delta, speaking about 250 different dialects.\n\nLanguage groups spoken in the Niger Delta include the Ijaw languages and Central Delta languages. Edoid languages and Igboid languages are also spoken in peripheral areas.\n\nThe area was the British Oil Rivers Protectorate from 1885 until 1893, when it was expanded and became the Niger Coast Protectorate. The core Niger Delta later became a part of the eastern region of Nigeria, which came into being in 1951 (one of the three regions, and later one of the four regions). The majority of the people were those from the colonial Calabar and Ogoja divisions, the present-day Ogoja, Annang, Ibibio, Oron, Efik, Ijaw and Ogoni peoples. The National Council of Nigeria and Cameroon (NCNC) was the ruling political party of the region. The NCNC later became the National Convention of Nigerian Citizens, after western Cameroon decided to separate from Nigeria. The ruling party of eastern Nigeria did not seek to preclude the separation and even encouraged it. The then Eastern Region had the third, fourth and fifth largest indigenous ethnic groups in the country including Igbo, Efik-Ibibio and Ijaw.\n\nIn 1953, the old eastern region had a major crisis due to the expulsion of professor Eyo Ita from office by the majority Igbo tribe of the old eastern region. Ita, an Efik man from Calabar, was one of the pioneer nationalists for Nigerian independence. The minorities in the region, the Ibibio, Annang, Efik, Ijaw and Ogoja, were situated along the southeastern coast and in the delta region and demanded a state of their own, the Calabar-Ogoja-Rivers (COR) state. The struggle for the creation of the COR state continued and was a major issue concerning the status of minorities in Nigeria during debates in Europe on Nigerian independence. As a result of this crisis, Professor Eyo Ita left the NCNC to form a new political party called the National Independence Party (NIP) which was one of the five Nigerian political parties represented at the conferences on Nigerian Constitution and Independence.\n\nIn 1961, another major crisis occurred when the then eastern region of Nigeria allowed present-day Southwestern Cameroon to separate from Nigeria (from the region of what is now Akwa Ibom and Cross River states) through a plebiscite while the leadership of the then Northern Region took the necessary steps to keep Northwestern Cameroon in Nigeria, in present-day Adamawa and Taraba states. The aftermath of the 1961 plebiscite has led to a dispute between Cameroon and Nigeria over the small territory of Bakassi.\n\nA new phase of the struggle saw the declaration of an Independent Niger Delta Republic by Isaac Adaka Boro during Nigerian president Ironsi's administration, just before the Nigerian Civil War.\n\nAlso just before the Nigerian civil war, Southeastern State of Nigeria was created (also known as Southeastern Nigeria or Coastal Southeastern Nigeria), which had the colonial Calabar division, and colonial Ogoja division. Rivers State was also created. Southeastern state and River state became two states for the minorities of the old eastern region, and the majority Igbo of the old eastern region had a state called East Central state. Southeastern state was renamed Cross River state and was later split into Cross River state and Akwa Ibom state. Rivers state was later divided into Rivers state and Bayelsa State.\n\nThe people of the eastern region suffered heavily and sustained many deaths during 1967–1970 Nigerian Civil War, also known as the Biafran War, in which the eastern region declared an independent state named Biafra that was eventually defeated, thereby preserving the sovereignty and indivisibility of the Nigerian state, which led to the loss of many souls.\n\nDuring the next phase of resistance in the Niger Delta, local communities demanded environmental and social justice from the federal government, with Ken Saro Wiwa and the Ogoni tribe as the lead figures for this phase of the struggle. Cohesive oil protests became most pronounced in 1990 with the publication of the Ogoni Bill of Rights. The indigents protested against the lack of economic development, e.g. schools, good roads, and hospitals, in the region, despite all the oil wealth created. They also complained about environmental pollution and destruction of their land and rivers by foreign oil companies. Ken Saro Wiwa and nine other oil activists from Movement for the Survival of the Ogoni People (MOSOP) were arrest and killed under Sani Abacha in 1995. Although protests have never been as strong as they were under Saro-Wiwa, there is still an oil reform movement based on peaceful protests today as the Ogoni struggle served as a modern-day eye opener to the Peoples of the region. \n\nUnfortunately, the struggle got out of control, and the present phase has become militant. When long-held concerns about loss of control over resources to the oil companies were voiced by the Ijaw people in the Kaiama Declaration in 1998, the Nigerian government sent troops to occupy the Bayelsa and Delta states. Soldiers opened fire with rifles, machine guns, and tear gas, killing at least three protesters and arresting twenty-five more.\n\nSince then, local indigenous activity against commercial oil refineries and pipelines in the region have increased in frequency and militancy. Recently foreign employees of Shell, the primary corporation operating in the region, were taken hostage by outraged local people. Such activities have also resulted in greater governmental intervention in the area, and the mobilization of the Nigerian army and State Security Service into the region, resulting in violence and human rights abuses.\n\nIn April 2006, a bomb exploded near an oil refinery in the Niger Delta region, a warning against Chinese expansion in the region. MEND stated: \"We wish to warn the Chinese government and its oil companies to steer well clear of the Niger Delta. The Chinese government, by investing in stolen crude, places its citizens in our line of fire.\"\n\nGovernment and private initiatives to develop the Niger Delta region have been introduced recently. These include the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), a government initiative, and the Development Initiative (DEVIN), a community development non-governmental organization (NGO) based in Port Harcourt in the Niger Delta. Uz and Uz Transnational, a company with a strong commitment to the Niger Delta, has introduced ways of developing the poor in the Niger Delta, especially in Rivers State.\n\nIn September 2008, MEND released a statement proclaiming that their militants had launched an \"oil war\" throughout the Niger Delta against both, pipelines and oil-production facilities, and the Nigerian soldiers that protect them. Both MEND and the Nigerian Government claim to have inflicted heavy casualties on one another. In August 2009, the Nigerian government granted amnesty to the militants; many militants subsequently surrendered their weapons in exchange for a presidential pardon, rehabilitation programme, and education.\n\nWestern Niger Delta consists of the western section of coastal South-South Nigeria which includes Delta, and the southernmost parts of Edo, and Ondo States. The western (or Northern) Niger Delta is an heterogeneous society with several ethnic groups including the Urhobo, Isoko, Itsekiri, Ijaw (or Izon) and Ukwuani groups in Delta State; the Bini, Esan,Auchi,Esako,oral,igara and Afenmai in Edo State; and the Yoruba (Ilaje) in Ondo State. Their livelihoods are primarily based on fishing and farming. History has it that the Western Niger was controlled by chiefs of the four primary ethnic groups the Itsekiri, Isoko, Ijaw, and Urhobo with whom the British government had to sign separate \"Treaties of Protection\" in their formation of \"Protectorates\" that later became southern Nigeria.\n\nCentral Niger Delta consists of the central section of coastal South-South Nigeria which includes Bayelsa, Rivers, Abia and Imo States. The Central Niger Delta region has the Ijaw (including the Nembe-Brass, Ogbia, Kalabari people, Ibani of Opobo & Bonny, Abua, Okrika, Engenni and Andoni clans), the Ogoni People (Khana, Gokana, Tai and Eleme) and the Etche, Ogba, Ikwerre, Ndoni, Ekpeye and Ndoki in Rivers State. nigeria\n\nEastern Niger Delta consists of Cross River State and Akwa Ibom State.\n\nNigeria has become West Africa's biggest producer of petroleum. Some a day are extracted in the Niger Delta. It is estimated that 38 billion barrels of crude oil still reside under the delta as of early 2012. The first oil operations in the region began in the 1950s and were undertaken by multinational corporations, which provided Nigeria with necessary technological and financial resources to extract oil. Since 1975, the region has accounted for more than 75% of Nigeria's export earnings. Together oil and natural gas extraction comprise \"97 per cent of Nigeria's foreign exchange revenues\". Much of the natural gas extracted in oil wells in the Delta is immediately burned, or flared, into the air at a rate of approximately 70 million m³per day. This is equivalent to 41% of African natural gas consumption and forms the largest single source of greenhouse gas emissions on the planet. In 2003, about 99% of excess gas was flared in the Niger Delta, although this value has fallen to 11% in 2010. (See also gas flaring volumes). The biggest gas flaring company is the Shell Petroleum Development Company of Nigeria Ltd, a joint venture that is majority owned by the Nigerian government. In Nigeria, \"...despite regulations introduced 20 years ago to outlaw the practice, most associated gas is flared, causing local pollution and contributing to climate change.\" The environmental devastation associated with the industry and the lack of distribution of oil wealth have been the source and/or key aggravating factors of numerous environmental movements and inter-ethnic conflicts in the region, including recent guerrilla activity by the Movement for the Emancipation of the Niger Delta (MEND).\n\nIn September 2012 Eland Oil & Gas purchased a 45% interest in OML 40, with its partner Starcrest Energy Nigeria Limited, from the Shell Group. They intend to recommission the existing infrastructure and restart existing wells to re-commence production at an initial gross rate of of oil per day with a target to grow gross production to of oil per day within four years.\n\nOil revenue allocation has been the subject of much contention well before Nigeria gained its independence. Allocations have varied from as much as 50%, owing to the First Republic's high degree of regional autonomy, and as low as 10% during the military dictatorships. This is the table below.\n\n\"* State allocations are based on 5 criteria: equality (equal shares per state), population, social development, land mass, and revenue generation. \"\n\n\"**The derivation formula refers to the percentage of the revenue oil-producing states retain from taxes on oil and other natural resources produced in the state.\" World Bank Report\n\nThe documentary film \"Sweet Crude\", which premiered April 2009 at the Full Frame Documentary Film Festival, tells the story of Nigeria's Niger Delta.\n\nThe effects of oil in the fragile Niger Delta communities and environment have been enormous. Local indigenous people have seen little if any improvement in their standard of living while suffering serious damage to their natural environment. According to Nigerian federal government figures, there were more than 7,000 oil spills between 1970 and 2000. It has been estimated that a clean-up of the region, including full restoration of swamps, creeks, fishing grounds and mangroves, could take 25 years.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1844609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844609", "title": "Newport railway station", "text": "Newport railway station\n\nNewport railway station () is the third-busiest railway station in Wales (after Cardiff Central and Cardiff Queen Street), situated in Newport city centre. It is from London Paddington on the British railway network.\n\nThe station was originally opened in 1850 by the South Wales Railway Company and was greatly expanded in 1928. A new station building was built in 2010 with four full size platforms, to facilitate new Great Western Railway 10-car Intercity Express Programme trains.\n\nThe station is owned by Network Rail and managed by Transport for Wales. The main station entrance is located on Queensway, connected by Station Approach to the High Street, with a further entrance adjoined to the National Car Parks site at its rear, reached from Devon Place.\n\nAs at February 2019, the station is a calling point for GWR (who provide most of the services), as well as Transport for Wales and CrossCountry.\n\n\nIn October 2008 the Welsh Government announced the launch of a new faster services between Cardiff and North Wales. The service was first operated by locomotives and Mark 2 passenger rolling stock. The \"Premier Service\" has premier business-class accommodation. In March 2012 the service was upgraded to locomotives and Mark 3 rolling stock.\n\n\n\nPhase Two of the Ebbw Valley Railway project would see the restoration of direct trains between Newport and Ebbw Vale and resurrect the suburban rail link with Rogerstone. In March 2008 following the success of phase one - direct services between Cardiff Central and Ebbw Vale - the Welsh Government's Minister for Economy and Transport launched a feasibility study into the restoration of direct trains from Newport. Significant works need to be carried out including the re-instatement of a set of points, refurbished track, new signals at the Gaer and Park junctions as well as track extensions between Crosskeys and Llanhilleth. The Welsh Government announced in July 2009 that the relevant works to enable direct trains between Ebbw Vale and Newport would be complete by 2011.\n\nAfter securing the Wales & Borders franchise in 2018, Transport for Wales announced that services will reopen between Newport and Ebbw Vale by 2021.\n\nThe current station layout consists of four through-platforms numbered 1 to 4 from the south side. The original broad gauge station had only two through platforms and a bay platform at the east end of the down platform. The Hillfield railway tunnels to the west of the station were dug under Stow Hill in the 1840s. On the closure of Dock Street and Mill Street stations to passengers in 1880, High Street station was greatly expanded: The up platform was made into an island - the north face in length, and the south side . The down platform was extended to , with the west end bay extended to . Two scissors crossovers were provided on these new platforms, effectively dividing them into two. The original down platform became Nos. 1 and 2. The bay became No. 3, the south face of the up platform Nos. 4 and 5 and the north face Nos. 6 and 7. The bay platform was mostly used for Monmouthshire western valleys services, but with the quadrupling of the line in 1912 trains from the bay platform (on the south side) now had to cross the entire station to get to the Gaer Tunnel on the north side. To address this the former loading dock on the north side of the station was made into a passenger platform (No. 8).\n\nApril 1961 saw the introduction of colour Multiple-Aspect Signalling and associated modifications to the station layout. The north face of the island platform became the new up platform, with the south face becoming the new down. The platforms were also renumbered in the opposite direction to match the new line designations — No. 8 became No. 1, Nos. 6/7 became 2, Nos. 4/5 became No. 5 and Nos. 1/2 became No. 6. Lines 3 and 4 became the designations for the through non-platform lines. Subsequent removal of the scissors crossovers saw a further combination and renumbering of platforms to the current layout.\n\nOriginally named \"Newport High Street\", the suffix \"High Street\" became unnecessary on the closure of Mill Street and Dock Street stations to goods traffic in the 1960s. Printed tickets and National Rail enquiries use the suffix \"South Wales\" to differentiate this station from its namesake in Essex. In 2007 the Newport Unlimited urban regeneration company proposed the station be renamed \"Newport City railway station\"; however, this suggestion was not taken up.\n\n\nPlatform 1 is only mainly used for westbound services to Cardiff Central during peak times. Platform 2 is usually the stopping point for all westbound services to Cardiff Central. Platform 3 is usually the stopping point for eastbound services to London Paddington and Nottingham. Platform 4 is usually the stopping point for eastbound services to Manchester Piccadilly, Holyhead, Portsmouth Harbour, Taunton and Cheltenham Spa and will also be used by trains to Ebbw Vale following the full re-opening of the Ebbw Valley Railway.\n\nA British Transport Police station and a branch of WH Smith are situated on platform 1. The waiting room and customer toilets are situated between platforms 2 and 3, as is the \"Upper Crust\" café. Also between platforms 2 and 3 is a customer help desk. The booking hall is situated between the main entrance and platform 1. There are three main windows for tickets for immediate travel and a travel centre which handles enquiries, complaints and issues tickets for future travel. In the booking hall there is also a small buffet, telephones, automatic ticket machines and a photo booth. Wheelchair access between platforms is provided by a subway, accessed by a lift from the platforms. Also, a ramp from platforms 2 and 3 leads into a subway that links Mill Street to the city centre. There is a short-stay car park and taxi rank situated to the front and a long-stay car park to the rear which is accessible via a footbridge from all platforms. Since October 2005, automatic ticket barriers have been installed. At the same time, the ticket barriers are being used more often, before used during peak periods and match days, now manned throughout the day until late in the evening.\n\nThe Welsh Government and Network Rail agreed a £20 million makeover for the station that provided two new concourses, a second pedestrian bridge over the tracks and a user-friendly bus-rail interchange at the station. The plans also included an extended platform 4 capable of accommodating up to twelve-carriage intercity trains and a new multi-storey car park for long-stay travellers. The initial redevelopment of Platform 4 did not allow for disabled access, resulting in station staff using a locally contracted taxi firm at £3 a passenger to move disabled and elderly passengers the half-mile from one side of the station to the other, in a complimentary service provision. The first phase, platform 4 extension, was completed on 2 July 2007, with design works completed by Atkins.\n\nPlanned to enable the station to cope with passenger traffic associated with the 2010 Ryder Cup, a second passenger bridge was built linking the whole station with a lift for all platforms. Network Rail claimed accessibility and safety are at the heart of the new design.\n\nThe new bridge is clad in ethylene tetrafluoroethylene (ETFE), the material which protects the Eden Project in Cornwall. The station enhancements were engineered by Atkins Engineers, based in Exeter and Swindon, with design support from Grimshaw Architects and Vector Foiltec working as sub-consultants. The new north and south concourses opened on 13 September 2010.\n\nThe development was criticised by RAIL magazine columnist Barry Doe for being at the wrong end of the station, a lack of seating and generally poor design. The station was nominated in 2011 for the Carbuncle Cup, awarded for the ugliest building of the year.\n\nArriva Trains Wales had expressed concern about a leaking roof, an inadequate customer service area and insufficient ticket gates. Network Rail said the roof was fixed in mid-May 2011, but issues had resumed in 2013. Transport for Wales acquired the management of the station in 2018 and are replacing station infrastructure across the network.\n\nThe whole Newport area was re-signalled from 2009–12, providing speed improvements on the relief lines.\n\nThe Great Western Main Line from London to Cardiff was electrified as part of the Great Western Main Line electrification scheme. As part of this the former footbridge was removed in 2017. Following the introduction of Hitachi Rail British Rail Class 800/802 trains and the new timetable introduced on 15 December 2019, journey times between Newport and London Paddington were reduced to around 1 hour 30 minutes The power from Bristol Parkway through Newport was switched on on 14 September 2019, with electric running extended to Newport from 15 December, and as far as Cardiff over the Christmas period.\n\nIn September 2018, plans were submitted to Newport City Council for a new footbridge between Devon Place and Queensway, to replace the subway used since the closure of the previous footbridge.\n\nThe South East Wales Transport Alliance (SEWTA) have proposed an additional service (one in every two hours) to Abergavenny with a re-opened station in Caerleon, two trains per hour between Cwmbran and Abergavenny, and an hourly service to Pontypool and New Inn, subject to line enhancements in Abergavenny.\n\nTransport for Wales have included some of these proposals in their plans for the later stages of their South Wales Metro scheme.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1844615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844615", "title": "Redneck Zombies", "text": "Redneck Zombies\n\nRedneck Zombies is a 1987 American horror comedy trash film directed by Pericles Lewnes and released by Troma Entertainment.\n\n\"Redneck Zombies\" was one of the first films shot entirely on videotape and then released to the home-video market (making it a straight-to-video film). The film was once used as an answer in a 1980s edition of Trivial Pursuit, the question being \"What film has the tagline 'They're Tobacco Chewin', Gut Chompin', Cannibal Kinfolk from Hell!'\". Director Pericles Lewnes went on to work as a special effects supervisor on several other Troma productions, including \"The Toxic Avenger Part II\", \"The Toxic Avenger Part III\", and \"Troma's War\", as well as \"Shatter Dead\".\n\nThe film was released on VHS and DVD by Troma Entertainment. A new 20th anniversary edition of the film was released on DVD January 27, 2009. It includes the never before released soundtrack on CD.\n\n"}
{"id": "1844616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844616", "title": "Paul Sculthorpe", "text": "Paul Sculthorpe\n\nPaul Sculthorpe MBE (born 22 September 1977) is an English former professional rugby league footballer who played in the 1990s and 2000s. A Great Britain international representative or , he began his career at Warrington before joining St Helens, with whom he won a total of four Grand Finals, four Challenge Cups and two World Club Challenges, as well as becoming the first (and currently only) player to win the Man of Steel Award on two consecutive occasions. He is the older brother of former player Danny Sculthorpe.\n\nSculthorpe was born on 22 September 1977 in Burnley, Lancashire, England. He grew up in Oldham, and was educated at Watersheddings Primary School and then Counthill School. He played junior rugby league for Waterhead. He started his professional career with Warrington, making his début in 1995.\n\nIn 1996, he was named in the inaugural Super League Dream Team, and in the post season he went on the 1996 Great Britain Lions tour of Oceania.\n\nSculthorpe moved to St. Helens in 1997 for £375,000, at the time a record transfer fee for a forward (based on increases in average earnings, this would be approximately £516,500 in 2013).\n\nIn the 1997 post season, Sculthorpe was selected to play for Great Britain at loose forward in all three matches of the Super League Test series against Australia.\n\nSculthorpe played for St Helens as a in their 1999 Super League Grand Final victory over Bradford Bulls. Having won the 1999 Championship, St. Helens contested in the 2000 World Club Challenge against National Rugby League Premiers Melbourne Storm, with Sculthorpe playing as a loose forward in the loss. He also played for St Helens at loose forward and kicked a drop goal in their 2000 Super League Grand Final victory over Wigan. As Super League V champions, St Helens played against 2000 NRL Premiers Brisbane Broncos in the 2001 World Club Challenge. Sculthorpe played at loose forward, scoring a try and kicking a drop goal in Saints' victory.\n\nIn 2001 Sculthorpe was named man-of-the-match for Great Britain in the first test match against Australia. He was named as Man of Steel in 2001 and 2002, becoming the first player to retain the award. He was Saints’ sole representative in the 2002 Super League Dream Team, a feat he repeated in 2004. Sculthorpe played for St Helens at stand-off in their 2002 Super League Grand Final victory against Bradford. Having won Super League VI, St Helens contested the 2003 World Club Challenge against 2002 NRL Premiers Sydney Roosters. Sculthorpe played at loose forward in Saints' 38-0 loss.\n\nSculthorpe was named St Helens captain in 2004, and led the team to victory over Wigan in the 2004 Challenge Cup Final at the Millennium Stadium, Cardiff. That year he also joined a select band of players to have scored 100 tries and 100 goals in Super League. Sculthorpe was selected as vice-captain of the Great Britain team to compete in the end of season 2004 Rugby League Tri-Nations tournament. In the final against Australia he played at loose forward in the Lions' 44-4 loss.\n\nIn 2005 Sculthorpe scored his 1,000th point for Saints.He was named as Great Britain captain in 2005, although injury ruled out for the most of 2005's Super League X and prevented him from leading the side in the 2005 Tri-Nations tournament.\n\nAs one of the stars of the world game, Sculthorpe secured a lucrative sponsorship deal as the face of Gillette, which at the time was the most lucrative sponsorship deal made by any rugby league player worldwide. In March 2006, Sculthorpe signed a deal with Random House to publish his autobiography, \"Man of Steel\", which was published in August 2007. Sculthorpe captained St Helens as a in their 2006 Challenge Cup Final victory against Huddersfield. However his time as Great Britain captain was less successful, as he only ever captained the side for 18 minutes. This came in the one off test game at Knowsley Road in 2006 between Great Britain and New Zealand, in which he was forced off after injuring his knee. Sculthorpe returned from the injury and was named man-of-the-match in St. Helens' win over Brisbane Broncos in the 2007 World Club Challenge. In September 2007 he signed a new 12-month contract with St Helens which saw him celebrate his testimonial season at the club.\n\nSculthorpe's final game for St. Helens was in the 2008 Challenge Cup Final, where he injured his shoulder in the opening minutes. After being injury hit in 2008's Super League XIII with only a handful of games played, St. Helens announced they would release Sculthorpe at the end of the season. He was touted as a potential signing for Salford, or joining up with brother Danny at Wakefield Trinity in time for the 2009 Super League season. However, Sculthorpe announced his retirement from the game on 19 September 2008.\n\nHe was awarded the honour of MBE in the 2013 New Year's Honours List, for \"services to Rugby League and to charity\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1844620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844620", "title": "Orthodontic headgear", "text": "Orthodontic headgear\n\nAs the name implies, orthodontic headgear is a type of orthodontic appliance typically attached to the patient's head with a strap or number of straps around the patient’s head or neck. From this, a force is transferred to the mouth / jaw(s) of the subject. \n\nThus a headgear is an orthodontic appliance used to correct bite and support proper jaw alignment and growth. Headgear is typically recommended for children whose jaw bones are still growing. \n\nUnlike braces, headgear is worn partially outside of the mouth. An orthodontist may recommend headgear for a patient if their bite is more severely out of alignment.\n\nHeadgear is most commonly used to correct anteroposterior discrepancies. The headgear attaches to the braces via metal hooks or a facebow. Straps or a head cap anchor the headgear to the back of the head or neck. In some situations, both are used. \n\nElastic bands are used to apply pressure to the bow or hooks. Its purpose is to slow or stop the upper jaw from growing, thereby preventing or correcting an overjet. \n\nOther forms of headgear treat reverse overjets, in which the top jaw is not forward enough. It is similar to a facemask, also attached to braces, and encourages forward growth of the upper jaw. \n\nHeadgear can also be used to make more space for teeth to come in. In this instance the headgear is attached to the molars, via molar headgear bands and tubes, and helps to draw these molars backwards in the mouth, opening up space for the front teeth to be moved back using braces and bands. Multiple appliances and accessories are typically used along with the headgear, such as: power chains, coil springs, twin blocks, plates or retainers, facemasks, a headgear helmet (a headgear helmet is a cervical headgear with a cap or rigid helmet that covers the entire head), lip bumpers, palate expanders, elastics, bionaters, Herbst appliances, Wilson appliances, other headgear, hybrid twinblocks, positioner retainers, and jasper jumpers. Many patients wear a combination of, or all of these appliances at any given time in their treatment.\n\nHeadgear needs to be worn between 12 and 23 hours each day to be effective in correcting the overbite, typically for 12 to 18 months depending on the severity of the overbite, how much it is worn and what growth stage the patient is in. Typically however the prescribed daily wear time will be between 14 and 16 hours a day.\nOrthodontic headgear will usually consist of three major components:\n\n\nSoreness of teeth when chewing or when the teeth touch is typical. Patients usually feel the soreness to 2 to 3 hours later, but younger patients tend to react sooner, (e.g., 1 to hours). The headgear application is one of the most useful appliances available to the orthodontist when looking to correct a Class II malocclusion.\n\nFacemask or reverse-pull headgear is an orthodontic appliance typically used in growing patients to correct \"underbites\" (technically termed \"Class-III orthodontic problems\") by pulling forward and assisting the growth of the upper jaw (maxilla), allowing it to \"catch up\" to the size of the lower jaw (mandible). Facemasks or reverse-pull headgear needs to be worn between 12 and 23 hours per day, but typically 14 to 16 hours a day is effective in correcting the underbite. \n\nOverall wear time is usually anywhere from 12 to 18 months depending on the severity of the bite and how much a patient's jaws and bones are growing over this time.\n\nThe appliance normally consists of a frame or a center bars that are strapped to the patient's head during a fitting appointment. The frame has a section which is positioned in front of the patient's mouth, which allows for the attachment of elastic or rubber bands directly into the mouth area. These elastics are then hooked onto the patient's braces (brackets and bands) or appliance fitted in his or her mouth. This creates a forward \"pulling\" force to pull the upper jaw forward.\n\nThe orthodontic facemask typically consists of three major components:\n\nIn some cases surgery is required in conjunction with a facemask or reverse-pull headgear. Many parents and doctors recommend using early intervention (typically between ages 7 to 13) by using a facemask to avoid costly and painful surgical procedures later.\n\nThe appliance is very effective in correcting Class III orthodontic problems in younger or adolescent patients that are still growing. Initially, it can be difficult for children to wear a mask or headgear, however most doctors and parents agree that children and adolescence adapt quickly to such changes and requirements. \n\nParents should be aware that their child is often better-off wearing a facemask or headgear to avoid later surgery and the patient, friends and school peers normally get used to the new appliance after just a few weeks of wear.\n\nResearchers who have studied the long term effects of orthodontic headgear have found that it may flatten the face and prevent the chin from coming forward, pushing both the upper and lower jaw down and back, into the airway. In more technical terms, it inhibits the natural growth of the jaws and lead to a reduction in the SNA and ANB angles, which relate to the forward position of the maxilla and the mandible, and good indicators of the size of a person's airway.\n\nThe controversy about headgear intensified beginning in the 1980s when formerly head-gear treated patients developed severe health symptoms, such as sleep apnea, breathing problems and acute TMD. In the 2lst century, a former headgear patient Omar Lalani, supported by doctors in the United States and Canada, launched a petition to make orthodontic headgear a violation against children's human rights. This petition and victim case studies can be seen on his website \"Right to Grow\". \n\nIn some cases, eye injuries have been reported, which is minimized with the use of safety release straps and safety facebows. \n\nTeenagers prescribed orthodontic headgear often face social stigma and bullying due to their detracting appearance.\n\nThe need for headgear in orthodontics and its application by practitioners has somewhat decreased in recent years as some orthodontists use temporary implants (i.e., temporary anchorage devices) inside the patient's mouth to perform the same tooth movements however the headgear is still widely used and a very effective appliance used by orthodontists today.\nSoreness of teeth when chewing, or when the teeth touch, is typical. Adults usually feel the soreness 12 to 24 hours later, but younger patients tend to react sooner, (e.g., 2 to 6 hours). Adults are sometimes prescribed headgear but this is less frequent. The headgear is one of the most useful appliances available to the orthodontist, but many patients find it difficult to comply with daytime wear, so it is mainly worn in the evenings and when sleeping. A similar appliance is the reverse-pull headgear or orthodontic facemask, which pulls the patients teeth forward (rather than back, as in this case).\n"}
{"id": "1844629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844629", "title": "Luigi Barzini", "text": "Luigi Barzini\n\nLuigi Barzini is the name of:\n\n<onlyinclude>* Luigi Barzini, Sr. (1874–1947), Italian journalist, war correspondent and writer\n"}
{"id": "1844637", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844637", "title": "Roy Waller", "text": "Roy Waller\n\nRoy Waller (17 September 1940 – 6 July 2010) was a regular radio presenter on BBC Radio Norfolk and was the main football match commentator for the station until 2007. He died in the Norfolk and Norwich University Hospital on 6 July 2010, after battling with liver illness. Waller's funeral service took place at Norwich Cathedral on 23 July 2010. Known as \"the voice of Carrow Road\", in September 2010, a commentary box at Carrow Road was dedicated to Waller's memory, and was unveiled by Alan Bowkett and Waller's widow, Sylvie, before a home game and to the applause of the fans.\n\nRoy was known for being a die-hard Norwich City fan. His deep Norfolk accent has often been the subject of light-hearted criticism from other football fans but he was popular among other football fans in Norwich. In March 2008, Roy was made Sheriff of Norwich. His popularity even led to him once being gunged by Noel Edmonds on Noel's House Party in the 1990s.\n\nWaller presented a daily show with BBC Radio Norfolk from the early 1980s until 2009. Roy Waller's last weekday show aired Monday to Fridays from 1pm to 4pm. The theme was an entertainment show featuring guests and fun \"with music thrown in\". Features included 'The Alternative News', 'Roy's Phonebook Challenge', 'War of the Work Force' and Norfolk drama 'Little Bexham'. The show regularly took calls and texts from the listeners. He stepped down from presenting a daily show on 19 September 2009 to focus on Rodeo Norfolk. His show was succeeded by Stephen Bumfrey who moved to the slot after presenting the breakfast show.\n\nSimilar to BBC Radio 4's The Archers, Little Bexham was a sixteen-part drama from BBC Radio Norfolk. It was created by Norfolk author Sue Welfare with the help of Roy Waller and former producer Amy Barratt. The first series aired in Autumn 2007 on Roy's afternoon, with an omnibus at the weekend.\n\nDespite finishing his daily show with BBC Radio Norfolk in September 2009, Roy continued to present Rodeo Norfolk on the station. The programme was a specialist music show focusing on the best in country music. The show also included special requests. It aired every Saturday between 9am and 12noon.\n\n"}
{"id": "1844643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844643", "title": "Helena Tekla Lubomirska", "text": "Helena Tekla Lubomirska\n\nPrincess Helena Tekla Lubomirska \"née\" Ossolińska (died 1687) was a Polish noblewoman, wife of Aleksander Michał Lubomirski since 1637.\n"}
{"id": "1844647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844647", "title": "Gospel Mission of the Gypsies of France (Life and Light)", "text": "Gospel Mission of the Gypsies of France (Life and Light)\n\nGospel Mission of the Gypsies of France (Life and Light) (Mission évangélique des Tziganes de France (Vie et Lumière)) is a Pentecostal church active among Roma.\n\nThe denomination has its origins in a mission founded by the Pastor Clément Le Cossec in 1952 in Brest. In 1954, the \"Gospel Mission of the Gypsies of France\" held its first annual national convention. \n\nIt has about 200 churches in France. The Gypsy Evangelical Movement is present in several countries throughout Western Europe. \n\nIt also is present in several countries outside Western Europe. In several countries the GEM faces persecution.\n\n"}
{"id": "1844652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844652", "title": "Hütteldorf", "text": "Hütteldorf\n\nHütteldorf (Central Bavarian: \"Hittldorf\") is a part of Vienna's 14th district, Penzing. It is located in the west of Vienna, in the geographical center of the district, stretching roughly from \"Deutschordenstraße\" (which forms the border to Baumgarten) in the east to \"Wolf in der Au\" in the west, where Hütteldorf borders Hadersdorf-Weidlingau.\n\nHütteldorf is well known throughout Austria and beyond as the site of the Gerhard-Hanappi-Stadion, the stadium in which Rapid Vienna hosts its home games. It is also known for the \"Wien Hütteldorf\" railway station near the stadium, where most long-distance trains operating on the West railway stop, as it offers good connections to Vienna's subway system (line U4) and suburban train routes.\n"}
{"id": "1844664", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844664", "title": "Zimbabwe Youth in Alliance", "text": "Zimbabwe Youth in Alliance\n\nThe Zimbabwe Youth in Alliance (ZYA) is a political party in Zimbabwe. \nAfter the last legislative elections, 31 March 2005, the party remained without parliamentary representation.\n"}
{"id": "1844679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844679", "title": "Aleksander Dominik Lubomirski", "text": "Aleksander Dominik Lubomirski\n\nPrince Aleksander Dominik Lubomirski (1693–1720) was a Polish nobleman (szlachcic), starost of Sandomierz, Zator and Ryki and the IV ordynat of the Ostrogski Family Fee Tail. He was the owner of the Wiśnicz, Dubno and Zasław estates.\n\nHe was the son of Grand Marshal of the Crown Józef Karol Lubomirski and Princess Teofila Ludwika Zasławska. His paternal grandparents were Voivode of Kraków Aleksander Michał Lubomirski and Princess Helena Tekla Ossolińska. His maternal grandparents were Prince Władysław Dominik Zasławski and Katarzyna Sobieska (sister of King of Poland Jan III Sobieski).\n"}
{"id": "1844680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844680", "title": "Fur (island)", "text": "Fur (island)\n\nFur (alternative older spelling Fuur) is a small Danish island in the Limfjord at the northern tip of the Salling peninsula. Fur has under 900 inhabitants. The island covers an area of 22 km². It is located at .\n\nThe island is linked to the mainland through a 24-hour ferry, the Sleipner-Fur ferry, sailing from Branden. The crossing of the Fursund takes 3–4 minutes.\n\nThe island is renowned for its deposits of diatomite, known in Danish as \"moler\" which is used for cat litter. Fossil hunting is a popular activity on the island, and the fossils one can find in the \"moler\" can be more than 55 million years old. Fur museum on the island features exhibits relating to the island, particularly fossils.\n\nIn 2010, readers of the Danish newspaper Kristeligt Dagblad voted for \"Denmark's most wonderful island\" and chose Fur ahead of Læsø and Ærø.\n\nFur is part of Skive municipality.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1844682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844682", "title": "National Alliance for Good Governance", "text": "National Alliance for Good Governance\n\nThe National Alliance for Good Governance is a political party in Zimbabwe. \nIts candidate, Shaka Maya, won 0.5% at the presidential elections of 9–11 March 2002. \nAfter the last legislative elections, 31 March 2005, the party remained without parliamentary representation.\n"}
{"id": "1844684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844684", "title": "TVX", "text": "TVX\n\nTVX may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1844689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844689", "title": "Victoria Drummond", "text": "Victoria Drummond\n\nVictoria Alexandrina Drummond MBE (14 October, 1894–25 December, 1978), was the first woman marine engineer in the UK and the first woman member of Institute of Marine Engineers. In World War II she served at sea as an engineering officer in the British Merchant Navy and received awards for bravery under enemy fire.\n\nVictoria Drummond was born on 14 October 1894 at Errol, Perthshire, Scotland. Her father was Captain Malcolm Drummond of Megginch, Groom in Waiting to Queen Victoria and Deputy Lieutenant of Perthshire. Her mother, Geraldine Margaret Tyssen-Amherst was the daughter of William Tyssen-Amherst, 1st Baron Amherst of Hackney.\n\nShe had two sisters, Jean and Frances, and a younger brother, John Drummond, 15th Baron Strange. She was baptised Victoria after Queen Victoria, who was one of her godmothers. Drummond and her siblings were brought up in both the Church of Scotland and the Scottish Episcopal Church. All four worked as children: growing vegetables and flowers to sell and keeping poultry. Drummond's speciality was hand-churning butter. Their privileged upbringing was straitened after one pair of grandparents lost a fortune in investments in 1906.\n\nOne of Drummond's grandmothers turned wood and ivory and belonged to the Worshipful Company of Turners. Drummond herself became a prizewinning model maker, making her own toys that were shown in exhibitions and won prizes in competitions.\n\nDrummond used to visit the engineering works of Robert Morton and Sons in Errol, which built steam-powered and petrol-engined lorries and buses. As a young girl she asked Mr Morton how she could learn to be a marine engineer and go to sea. Morton may or may not have taken the young girl seriously, but he told her to serve an apprenticeship, find a shop with a vacancy and start at the beginning, serve her time and then find a ship that would give her a berth as an engineer.\n\nIn February 1913 Drummond's parents took her to London where she was presented at court to King George V and Queen Mary as a Debutante.\n\nIn 1915 Drummond turned 21 and her father encouraged her to choose her own career. She repeated her ambition to be a marine engineer. From 18 October 1916 she was apprenticed at the Northern Garage, South Street, Perth. Her wage as a first year apprentice was three shillings a week, from which sixpence was deducted for National Insurance so her net wage was half a crown. In her second year her wage before National Insurance was six shillings. Her foreman, a Mr Malcolm, who had worked in Clyde shipyards, gone to sea and risen to be a Chief Engineer at sea, supported her training. On three evenings a week a teacher from Dundee Technical College (now Abertay University) taught her maths and engineering.\n\nMr Malcolm supported Drummond's training but in 1918 the garage dismissed him for drunkenness. Drummond took this as the right time to move on and resigned from the garage. Her father got her an introduction to the Caledon Shipbuilding & Engineering Company in Dundee, which took her on in its engine and boiler works at Lilybank in Dundee. She started as a pattern maker for metal casting, and in 1919 was promoted to the finishing shop. She joined the Women's Engineering Society and completed her apprenticeship in 1920 afer which she was elected a graduate of the Institute of Marine Engineers. She stayed on at Caledon as a journeyman, later transferring to the drawing office. . In 1922 Caledon suffered a decline in orders and laid off many workers, including Drummond who left on 7 July.\n\nEarly in Drummond's time at Caledon, the founder W.B. Thompson introduced her and her parents to Henry Wortley, a director of Blue Funnel Line. Wortley offered Drummond the promise of a position as an engineer at sea when she completed her apprenticeship. When Caledon gave her notice in 1922, Drummond wrote to Wortley to take up his offer. Unknown to Drummond, Wortley had died in 1919. However, Lawrence Holt honoured Wortley's promise and invited her to Liverpool for an interview.\n\nBlue Funnel employed Drummond initially in its engineering record office in Liverpool on a salary of £12 a month. About a month later, on 25 August, she was instructed to sign on the passenger liner for a trial trip from Liverpool to Glasgow as an Assistant Engineer. On 2 September she signed on \"Anchises\" again as Tenth Engineer. The salary of £10 a month was £2 less than the company had paid her ashore! She served on the ship until 1924, making four voyages to Australia and one to China.\n\nOn \"Anchises\" all the crew, all but one of the officers and most of the passengers accepted having a woman engineer. A few of the women passengers passed demeaning remarks at her. When \"Anchises\" usual Second Engineer was taken ill his position was covered by an extra Second, Mr Howard, who Drummond says \"persecuted\" her. Drummond was friends with the usual Second Engineer, Malcolm Quayle, who supported her career, was her escort for social events ashore and whom she called her \"protector\". The pair had prickly tempers, for which Drummond nicknamed Quayle \"hedgehog\" and he nicknamed her \"Kate\", after Katherina in William Shakespeare's \"The Taming of the Shrew\". Quayle was married and had two children, and Drummond was emphatic that there was never any impropriety between them. However, when in 1924 she wanted to take her exams to become a Second Engineer, she unwisely wrote to her manager at Blue Funnel, Mr Freeman, suggesting that Quayle be promoted to Chief Engineer and she could be his Second. This gave Freeman the damaging impression that Quayle and Drummond were having an affair. Drummond left \"Anchises\" and Blue Funnel in April 1924.\n\nDrummond began study for her Second Engineer's qualification. In October 1926 she obtained her Second Engineer's Certificate becoming Britain's first certificated woman marine engineer. However, after qualifying, she was able to find work only as a Fifth Engineer, signing on the British-India Steam Navigation Company steam turbine liner on 14 April 1927. She served on the ship until 4 December 1928, completing one voyage to East Africa and four to India and Ceylon.\n\nAboard \"Mulbera\" Drummond was again accepted by nearly all the ship's company. The exception was the Second Engineer, Mr Lamb, who on Drummond's first day aboard told her that he didn't want her there. Drummond said Lamb often shouted at her, occasionally swore at her and thus wore her down. Drummond privately nicknamed Lamb the Tiger Cat or just \"The Tiger\". On occasion she also encountered passengers who initially did not believe a woman could be a marine engineer. Drummond won them round by competently doing her job.\n\nIn port in Aden on 11 May 1928 Drummond received an air mail letter telling her that aboard her former ship \"Anchises\" on 13 April her friend Malcolm Quayle had died. The letter gave no details of what had happened and she found out none until some time thereafter.\n\nFrom about 1919 Drummond's sister Jean ran the Queen Victoria Girl's Club at 122 Kennington Road, Lambeth, south London: a job that included a flat at the top of the building. From 1929 Victoria and Frances leased a house almost opposite at 143 Kennington Road, which they named The Studio. Frances worked as a commercial artist and she and Victoria also developed a business, the Golden Fisheries, trading goldfish that they kept in their garden pond and in tanks in the house.\n\nFrom October 1929 Drummond repeatedly sat the Board of Trade examination for Chief Engineer, but every time the examiners failed her. Mr Martin at Dundee continued to support her and eventually in 1936 tackled the examiners, who privately admitted to him that they always failed her because she was a woman. Indeed, to prevent any accusations of unfairness, the Board of Trade Examiners habitually failed all candidates who sat the examinations with her.\n\nFrom 1935 Frances and Victoria's business took them abroad to trade fairs in Leipzig, Prague and Vienna. In March 1938 when German forces occupied Austria in the Anschluss, the two sisters were at a trade fair in Vienna. Drummond photographed Hitler in his motorcade and later described that time in Vienna as very tense, chaotic and dangerous.\n\nPhilanthropy\n\nAs a response to their experience, they took it upon themselves to enable several Austrian children to enter the UK as refugees and sponsored them by finding schools, accommodation and paying for their expenses for a year. \nSource: Gertrude Maiman (1922 - ) one of the children brought over from Vienna.\n\nIn 1939 war seemed to grow inevitable so Drummond applied to return to sea as a Second Engineer. Despite her good service on liners of two of the most prestigious companies in the Merchant Navy, and glowing references from numerous superior officers, all her many applications were declined. Therefore, on the eve of World War II she joined Jean and Frances enlisting as Air raid wardens in Lambeth, London.\n\nDrummond then tried visiting the Royal Docks in the hope of finding a ship that would take her on. Eventually on such a visit a donkeyman, who had served with her on \"Mulbera\" 12 years earlier, recognised Drummond in a café. He and his shipmates advised her that if no British company would take her she should try for a berth on a foreign ship. They introduced her to a representative of Palestine Maritime Lloyd, owned by a group of Jewish businessmen based in Haifa, Palestine. He was sceptical of signing a woman engineer until he saw her papers. Palestine Maritime Lloyd operated mostly coasters of to , but had also one small deep-sea cargo and passenger ship, the (Mount Zion), that which could carry both cargo and 110 passengers. \"Har Zion\" needed a new Second Engineer so he immediately offered Drummond a berth at a salary of £41 10s.\n\n\"Har Zion\" was registered at Famagusta in the British Protectorate of Cyprus. Her officers and crew were a mixture of Arab, Czech, Egyptian, German, Hungarian, Russian, Spanish, and the ship's dog was Polish. She was built in 1907 and by 1940 was in poor condition. Drummond mastered disciplinary problems among the engine room crew and then in drydock in Antwerp completed enough furnace and boiler repairs for \"Har Zion\" to pass its Lloyd's Certificate inspection.\n\nIn Antwerp \"Har Zion\" took on a Greek Third Engineer who clashed with Drummond. The ship worked to Beirut, Haifa and back, and on its return trip evacuated the British Consul and part of the British Expeditionary Force from Marseille to Gibraltar. When the ship returned to London in July 1940 Drummond left to get away from the Third Engineer. About a month later, in August 1940, \"Har Zion\" was sunk in the Western Approaches by the , with the loss of 36 of the 37 people aboard.\n\nIn August 1940 a Panamanian company, \"Compañía Arena Limitada\", gave Drummond a berth on its cargo ship at a salary of £46 10s — £5 a month more than on \"Har Zion\". Drummond joined her at Fowey in Cornwall where the ship loaded china clay for the USA. Being a neutral ship she was not offered the protection of a place in a convoy.\n\nOn the morning of Sunday 25 August 1940 \"Bonita\" was in the North Atlantic about from land when \"Luftwaffe\" Focke-Wulf Fw 200 Condor aircraft attacked. Drummond was on watch and immediately ordered the fireman and greaser to join her on the starting platform ready in case they needed to escape. Near misses from bombs blew all the lagging off the pipes in the engine room and split the main water service pipe feeding the boilers. Fuel oil started leaking from somewhere, hitting Drummond in the face and closing one of her eyes. She ordered her fireman and greaser to open the fuel injectors and main steam throttle to increase speed and then get out of the engine room in case they needed to abandon ship.\n\nDrummond remained alone at her post. \"Bonita\" had never before exceeded but in 10 minutes Drummond somehow increased speed to . The Master, a Captain Herz from Hungary, used the extra speed to change course sharply and avoid being hit whenever a Condor bombed the ship. The bombs were heavy enough to lift \"Bonita\" in the water and cause damage even by near misses. The ship was hit by both and machine-gun fire. Drummond says 25 bombs were dropped; this suggests that six or seven aircraft took part in the attack, which continued for 30–35 minutes. \"Bonita\" continued her crossing without further incident and reached Norfolk, Virginia on 8 September. There Drummond received news that The Studio at 143 Kennington Road had been bombed but Frances and Jean were safe.\nAboard \"Bonita\" Drummond formed a close friendship with another married man, the First Mate Mr Warner. In a published account of her conduct in the air raid, Warner described Drummond as \"\"about the most courageous woman I ever saw\"\". Newspapers in Norfolk, VA quoted Captain Herz commending Drummond as \"\"one of the most competent engineers ever employed on this vessel\".\n\nIn Norfolk, Drummond made friends with a Virginian woman, Mrs Julia Davies, who was engaged in charitable work collecting goods to send to Britain that were in short supply because of the War. Davies engaged Drummond as a speaker at charitable events, and in return directed to Lambeth much of the goods that her charitable network was collecting.\nAt Norfolk \"Bonita\" discharged her china clay and loaded scrap iron. The ship made her return crossing \"via\" Halifax, Nova Scotia, where she joined an eastbound convoy. The oil-burning ship was unable to stop making black smoke, which made her dangerously conspicuous. When the third or fourth engineer were on watch the ship lost speed and fell behind the convoy. Whenever Drummond was on watch the ship managed to increase speed and regain her station.\n\nBy Christmas 1941 Drummond's sisters Jean and Frances were preparing to move into a flat in Restormel House, Chester Way, Kennington.\n\nBy 1941 Drummond had qualified as a Panamanian chief engineer. These examinations were a purely written paper, with the gender or status of the candidate not being known to the examiners. By then the Board of Trade had failed her for Chief Engineer 31 times. Due to the needs of war the Board of Trade was now granting Chief Engineer certificates to experienced Second Engineers on the sole basis of an oral examination. However, when Drummond requested this dispensation the Board refused. Because of the dangers of war, the Board patronisingly suggested that Drummond take a shore job as an instructor. Drummond replied firmly that numerous Chief and other engineers with whom she had served had lacked the nerve to cope while under enemy attack, and therefore the best service she could give was as a Chief Engineer at sea.\n\nIn about April 1941, Drummond learnt that Mrs Davies in Virginia had raised £400 toward the provision of a \"Victoria A. Drummond Ambulance\" for the people of Lambeth. In raising funds Davies and a Mrs Leitch had even enlisted the poet Robert Frost to give a public reading of his works. However, what Lambeth needed more was a British Restaurant for people who had been bombed out of their homes. Accordingly, the \"Victoria A. Drummond Canteen\" was opened in Westminster Bridge Road near Lambeth North tube station. The canteen served hot meals for sixpence a head and remained open for the remainder of the war.\n\nFor her courage aboard \"Bonita\" Drummond was awarded the MBE and the Lloyd's War Medal for Bravery at Sea in July 1941. Her MBE was presented by George VI.\n\nIn February 1941 Warner and Drummond signed on as Captain and Second Engineer of an old Panamanian steamship, . The ship was in Lisbon so a skeleton crew including Warner and Drummond sailed out to join her on Yeoward Brothers' passenger liner . They sailed \"Czikos\" to Gibraltar, where they joined a convoy bound for the Firth of Clyde. About northwest of Ireland a \"Luftwaffe\" Fw 200 Condor attacked \"Czikos\". As with \"Bonita\", none of the bombs hit but the near misses damaged the ship. The Condor also machine-gunned the ship, killing a quartermaster at the helm and wounding two other crewmen.\n\nIn April 1942 Drummond joined Manchester Liners' in Liverpool as Fifth Engineer. The ship was unkempt and filthy, including the galley, the food was ill-served and the Master, Captain Davis, seemed permanently drunk. Nevertheless, \"Manchester Port\" was made Commodore Ship for convoy ON 89 to North America. The ship survived the crossing and on 17 May loaded dynamite at Trois-Rivières, Quebec. On 20 May the ship reached Halifax to join an eastbound convoy. Drummond reported Davis for drunkenness and on 21 May he was removed under police escort, replaced by a Captain Middleton. \"Manchester Port\" joined convoy HX 191, which left Halifax on 24 May and reached Liverpool on 6 June. The ship discharged her explosive cargo in Manchester and Drummond returned to her sisters in Lambeth.\n\nAt the end of August 1942 Drummond and Warner joined the cargo steamer at Boston, Lincolnshire as First Mate and Second Engineer. The ship was owned by the Ministry of War Transport and managed by Ambrose, Davies and Matthews, who had chosen someone else for Second Engineer. The Third and Fourth Engineers were unqualified. The Master, Captain Cheek, the Chief Engineer and either the third or fourth engineer were all heavy drinkers. Drummond called \"Danae II\" \"The worst ship I ever sailed in\".\n\nThe ship steamed north \"via\" North Shields in Northumberland to Methil Docks in Fife. There Cheek tried to give Drummond her notice on medical grounds, but doctor ashore stopped him. When the ship reached Aultbea in Ross Cheek sacked Drummond with 24 hours' notice, although she had signed on for two years. The firemen, greasers and donkeyman all refused to sail without Drummond, and so did the deck crew. Her friend Warner, however, refused to leave the ship, leaving Drummond feeling betrayed.\n\nDrummond reported the mismanagement of \"Danae II\" to the MoWT and Ambrose, Davies and Matthews. Cheek's solicitors threatened to sue Drummond for defamation, but no action followed.\n\nAt the end of January 1943 Drummond returned to Blue Funnel, signing on as refrigeration engineer on the refrigerated cargo ship . Again Drummond was beset by a hostile Second Engineer always being rude to her, giving her extra work and trying to prevent her from getting shore leave.\n\n\"Perseus\" circumnavigated the World westbound from Liverpool \"via\" New York, Cuba, the Panama Canal, Australia, South Africa, Sierra Leone and Gibraltar, returning to Liverpool in September 1943. In July 1943 the ship visited Cape Town, where Drummond was able to go ashore and visit her friend Malcolm Quayle's grave outside the city.\n\nAfter an eight-month voyage Drummond did not want to return to sea immediately. After leaving \"Perseus\" in September 1943 she returned to her sisters in Lambeth, where Restormel House had been damaged by a bomb but their flat remained intact. Drummond did not seek another position at sea until January 1944.\n\nIn April 1944 Drummond signed on as Assistant Engineer of a diesel ship, the Baltic Trading Company's oil tanker , with which she sailed on an Arctic convoy to Onega in the USSR. On return to England in May 1944 Drummond signed onto \"Karabagh\" again as Fourth Engineer. After D-Day on 6 June 1944 the tanker spent three months shuttling supplies such as aviation spirit across the English Channel for the Invasion of Normandy, initially from the Solent and later from Newport, Wales.\n\nDrummond formed a friendship with \"Karabagh\"s Master, a man from Northern Ireland called Captain Charlton. In Newport the two took occasional trips ashore, and once on a visit to Tintern Abbey he proposed to her. She did not accept, and later explained that this was because both he and she had short tempers.\n\nAfter the War the bomb-damaged Restormel House was demolished. In December 1945 and January 1946 Drummond's sisters Jean and Frances moved into 160 Kennington Road, which they named Tresco.\nIn April 1946 Blue Funnel appointed Drummond to return to Caledon in Dundee to supervise the completion of the sister ships and , which she did until July.\n\n\"Karabagh\" had given Drummond enough experience to take her Second Engineer's motor examination. She passed in May 1946 on her second attempt. In September Drummond returned to sea as Second Engineer, now with Cunard-White Star Line. She worked as a relief Second Engineer, serving for short periods on Cunard cargo ships until January 1947. After leaving Cunard she served on the MoWT's Type C1 ship for five months, signing on in May 1947 at Fowey in Cornwall, leaving in September in Philadelphia and returning to Britain as a passenger on Cunard's .\n\nFor the next four years Drummond worked as Chief or Second Engineer for short periods for various shipping companies. They included \"Elsie Beth\", which she joined at Barry, South Wales in August 1949 and left in Dublin in December. The voyage took Drummond back to Onega in the USSR, where she had previously been in 1944 on \"Karabagh\".\n\nIn February 1952 Drummond returned to supervising shipbuilding in Scotland. The Phocian Ship Agency sent her to the Burntisland Shipbuilding Company in Fife to oversee building of the until the ship was launched in September. Drummond would have liked further jobs supervising shipbuilding, but instead Phocian offered her a berth on the . She spent a month on \"Markab\" as Second Engineer in October and November 1952, then returned to the ship as Chief Engineer in January 1953. This turned out to be a year-long voyage that included the Suez Canal, Japan, Hong Kong, Singapore, the Mediterranean, the Black Sea, the USA, the Caribbean, Argentina, Brazil, Cape Verde and ended in Antwerp in January 1954.\n\nDrummond next spent another three years serving for short periods for various shipping companies. Then in April 1957 in London she signed on Monarch Steamship Company's . This turned out to be a six-month voyage: across the Atlantic to the USA, through the Panama Canal, across the Pacific to Japan, south to Fiji, north to British Columbia and back through the Panama Canal, back across the Atlantic and ending in Liverpool in November 1957.\n\nDrummond returned home to Kennington Road until May 1958, when she began a two-month voyage as the engineer of an old motor yacht, \"My Adventuress\", from Southampton to Istanbul. The engine was unreliable and Drummond's relationship with the owner and his family was strained. Thereafter she stayed ashore in Kennington for another year.\n\nDrummond spent her final three years at sea as a Chief Engineer with the Jebshun Shipping Company of Hong Kong. Her first Jebshun ship was the former Empire ship \"Grelrosa\", which Drummond joined in Garston, Merseyside, Liverpool in July 1959. The ship had been laid up for 18 months and needed extensive work to pass its Lloyd's inspection. \"Grelrosa\" steamed \"via\" the Suez Canal and Singapore to Japan, China and Hong Kong, where Jebshun renamed her \"Shantae\".\n\nAs \"Shantae\" in 1960 the ship sailed to Malaysia and Thailand. In February 1960 in Bangkok Port the ship loaded a flammable mixed cargo of rice, firewood, paper, cotton, palm husks, charcoal, flour and palm oil, all carelessly and chaotically packed into the holds. On top of this, 580 head of live buffalo were crammed on as deck cargo. \"En route\" to Hong Kong on 1 March the cargo in number 2 hold caught fire. Drummond provided steam to smother and contain the fire, but this depleted the ship's water supply which was needed to make steam to power the main engine. \"Shantae\" reached Hong Kong on 3 March, where the port's fire service used carbon dioxide gas to extinguish the fire. The ship returned to sea 11 days later, trading to Chinese ports including Tsingtao. Drummond signed off at Hong Kong in mid-April.\n\nDrummond's next Jebshun vessel was the Park ship \"Shun Fung\", which she joined in Kristiansand, Norway in September 1960. This was another steamship that had been laid up and needed work to make her reliable. Drummond served on her for 14 months, sailing \"via\" the Suez Canal to Japan and China, then \"via\" Durban to West Africa, back to Hong Kong, then to India, and back \"via\" Singapore and Chinese ports to Hong Kong, where she signed off in November 1961.\n\nDrummond's final Jebshun ship, and the final vessel of her career, was the Liberty ship \"Santa Granda\". Only 10 days after signing off \"Shun Fung\" in Hong Kong she signed on \"Santa Granda\" for six months. She found \"Santa Granda\" to be in very poor condition: rusty, dirty and in poor repair. The governor, a vital piece of safety equipment, was missing from the engine.\n\n\"Santa Granda\" worked to Shanghai and then Basuo on Hainan Island, where it loaded iron ore in December 1961. The ship left port on 8 December, and by midnight was struggling against a strong headwind. The next day water was found in the Number one hold bilge, which took an hour and a half to pump out. On 11 December the Number one hold bilge again needed pumping out, which took an hour and three quarters. From 12 December the Number one hold bilge needed pumping continuously.\n\nFinally on 13 December the Master and Drummond inspected the Number One hold. They found about 10 frames adrift, a plate near the bulkhead split either side of the frame, and frames corroded through at the bottom and broken across. With the motion of the ship, plates and frames were moving past each other and friction was heating the metal. If a plate failed and flooded Number One hold, the Number One bulkhead would be likely to fail. In that case, and laden with dense iron ore, \"Santa Granda\" would be likely to sink within a very few minutes.\n\n\"Santa Granda\" initially made for Shanghai, until the Number One Hold's bulkhead began to buckle. Then the Master put the ship about for Whampoa on the Pearl River Delta, arriving on 17 December. After the iron ore was unloaded, ship surveyors allowed the damaged \"Santa Granda\" to leave to make for Hong Kong for repairs. Christmas was spent in Hong Kong, with Drummond arguing against Jebshun representatives who wanted to postpone many of the repairs essential to make the ship safe. Drummond began engine and boiler repairs, and on 29 December the ship moved to drydock in Kowloon.\n\nA fortnight later \"Santa Granda\" returned to sea, continuing to take cargoes of iron ore from Basuo to other Chinese ports. On 25 March 1962 Drummond advised that the ship was still in too poor a condition to pass its forthcoming Lloyd's inspection. Two days later \"Santa Granda\" reached Hong Kong, where Jebshun told the Master they would transfer the insurance from Lloyd's to a French company. Drummond believed this was to avoid inspection, and on 30 March she gave the Master her notice that she would quit the ship the next day. Then Drummond spent 10 days in Hong Kong and visited friends in Japan before returning to London and retirement.\n\nDrummond and her two sisters spent the next 12 years living at 160 Kennington Road. She attended annual meetings of the Institute of Marine Engineers (now IMarEST) and wrote her life story. In the early 1970s Drummond grew less mobile and more dependent on Jean and Frances. In 1974 she fell out of bed, broke her leg and was admitted to St Thomas' Hospital. Soon Jean and Frances were admitted to the same hospital, where they died within two days of each other. Drummond recovered physically but her state of mind deteriorated and she was discharged to St George's Retreat, a church-run nursing home at Ditchling Common in East Sussex. She died there on Christmas Day 1978, and is buried at Megginch Castle beside her parents and sisters.\n\nIn a career spanning 40 years Drummond made 49 ocean-going voyages. She persevered with her career through hardship and some discrimination, doing the hard physical work of the engine room, managing the engine room crew and at times enduring prejudice and discrimination from some of her immediate superiors. However, she won acceptance and support from most of her fellow-officers and near-universal support and loyalty from crewmen.\n\nShe is commemorated by a Victoria Drummond Room at the IMarEST headquarters in London.\n\nHer biography, \"The Remarkable Life of Victoria Drummond – Marine Engineer\", was written by her niece, Cherry Drummond, 16th Baroness Strange.\n\nIn 2013 Drummond was featured in an exhibition 'Women in Science' showcasing the legacy of some remarkable Scottish women scientists at the National Library of Scotland. Abertay University has a blue plaque on its Old College building,commemorating her time spend there (when it was Dundee Institute of Technology) training to be an engineer. The plaque features on the Dundee Women's Trail and Dundee Global Trail.\n\nIn 2018 she was inducted into the Scottish Engineering Hall of Fame.\n"}
{"id": "1844690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844690", "title": "Alfapet", "text": "Alfapet\n\nAlfapet was the original Swedish name for the popular word game \"Scrabble\".\n\nIn 1954, the Swedish board game company Alga was granted a license by Mattel to market \"Scrabble\" in Sweden. For almost four decades, Alga sold the game under the name \"Alfapet\" (wordplay on \"alfabet\", the Swedish word for \"alphabet\".) In the 1980s, Alga was bought by BRIO, which retained Alga as its board games division.\n\nIn the early 1990s, Mattel rescinded the BRIO/Alga license in order to market the game in Sweden themselves as \"Scrabble\". \n\nHowever, BRIO/Alga retained the right to the name \"Alfapet\", and quickly designed and marketed a similar word game using that name.\n\nThe new \"Alfapet\" word game differs in several ways from the international game of \"Scrabble\": \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1844695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844695", "title": "Jegindø", "text": "Jegindø\n\nJegindø is a Danish island in the western part of the Limfjord. The island is 6 km long and 3 km wide. Jegindø covers an area of 7,91 km² and has 507 inhabitants (1 January 2005).\n"}
{"id": "1844701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844701", "title": "Left Socialist Party (Belgium)", "text": "Left Socialist Party (Belgium)\n\nThe Left Socialist Party - Socialist Party of Struggle (, , LSP-PSL) is a Belgian Trotskyist party, affiliated to the International Socialist Alternative. The party publishes monthly newspapers in Dutch and French, entitled \"Linkse Socialist\" and \"Lutte Socialiste\", respectively.\n\nThe LSP-PSL was founded in 1992 as Militant Left (\"Militant Links\"), an offshoot from the Spark (\"Vonk\") which operated as a Marxist tendency within the Belgian Socialist Party. Following the Socialist Party’s swing to the right, discontent within the Spark culminated in a split, largely over the strategy of entryism under the changed circumstances. One group continued as the Spark, working within the Socialist Party, whilst another left to form Militant Left, later renaming themselves the Left Socialist Party (\"Linkse Socialistische Partij\"). The LSP was at first active only in the cities of Ghent and Geraardsbergen, but has since grown into a national party. In 1999 the party formally gained its francophone section, Movement for a Socialist Alternative (\"Mouvement pour une Alternive Socialiste\"), renamed Socialist Party of Struggle (\"Parti Socialiste de Lutte\") in 2009.\n\nThe LSP-PSL aims to build left unity around a common minimum programme, while maintaining the right of groups to organise and campaign on their own platforms. To this end, the party has sought to engage with other radical left parties and has met with some success in creating electoral alliances with the Communist Party, Humanist Party and Revolutionary Communist League. The LSP-PSL contested the 2007 federal elections as part of a new political movement, the Committee for Another Policy, though it subsequently left at the end of the year. Later, it participated in the Left Front, with which it stood in the federal elections in 2010.\nIn the 2014 federal elections, the LSP/PSL did not participate, calling for a vote for the Workers' Party of Belgium or other small left parties instead, despite the PTB/PvdA having rejected the LSP-PSL's proposal for a common list.\n\nThe party emphasises youth work and in universities has a youth network named Active Left Students (\"Étudiants de Gauche Actifs - Actief Linkse Studenten\", EGA-ALS). EGA-ALS takes up issues concerning education, but also campaigns on wider social issues such as sexism and racism, including forming organised opposition to the far-right Nationalist Student Association. In 2010, along with trade union and leftwing youth groups Comac, Écolo j, Jeunes-FGTB and JOC, the PSL launched \"Jeunes en Lutte pour l'Emploi\" to campaign on the issue of youth unemployment, taking as its inspiration the Youth Fight for Jobs campaign in Great Britain.\n\nChamber of Representatives\nSenate\n"}
{"id": "1844711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844711", "title": "Thomas Milton Rivers", "text": "Thomas Milton Rivers\n\nThomas Milton Rivers (September 3, 1888 – May 12, 1962) was an American bacteriologist and virologist. The \"father of modern virology.\"\n\nBorn in Jonesboro, Georgia, he graduated from Emory College in 1909 with a Bachelor of Arts degree. Immediately following graduation, Rivers was admitted to the Johns Hopkins Medical School. His plans of becoming a physician could not be realized at first as he was diagnosed with a neuromuscular degeneration which forced him to leave medical school and work as a laboratory assistant at a hospital in the Panama Canal Zone. When by 1912 the illness had not become worse he returned to Johns Hopkins and graduated in 1915. He stayed at Johns Hopkins until 1919.\n\nIn March 1922 he headed the infectious disease ward at the Rockefeller Institute for Medical Research and became the institute's director in June 1937. After retiring in 1956, he remained active with the Rockefeller Foundation. His work in the 1930s and 1940s contributed to making the institute a leader in viral research. In 1934 Rivers was elected to the National Academy of Sciences in section 10 (pathology and microbiology). As chairman of committees on research and vaccine advisory for the National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis, he oversaw the clinical trials of Jonas Salk's vaccine. He served in the armed forces medical corps during both World Wars. During the Second World War, Rivers led the Naval Medical Research Unit Two (NAMRU-2) in the South Pacific, rising to the rank of rear admiral.\n\nIn 1948 Rivers edited a standard book on viral and Rickettsial infections.\n\nIn 1958 he was inducted into the Polio Hall of Fame at Warm Springs, Georgia.\n\nRivers was married to Teresa Jacobina Riefle of Baltimore. Rivers died at Forest Hills, New York in 1962 and was buried at Arlington National Cemetery on account of his military rank.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1844716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844716", "title": "Tim Hodgkinson", "text": "Tim Hodgkinson\n\nTimothy \"Tim\" George Hodgkinson (born 1 May 1949, Salisbury, Wiltshire, England) is an English experimental music composer and performer, principally on reeds, lap steel guitar, and keyboards. He first became known as one of the core members of the British avant-rock group Henry Cow, which he formed with Fred Frith in 1968. After the demise of Henry Cow, he participated in numerous bands and projects, eventually concentrating on composing contemporary music and performing as an improviser.\n\nTim Hodgkinson was born in Salisbury, Wiltshire in England on 1 May 1949, and was educated at Winchester College and Trinity College, Cambridge. He graduated in social anthropology from Cambridge in 1971, but chose to pursue a musical career instead. His interest in anthropology, however, remained and he drew on it later during a series of study trips to Siberia.\n\nWhile still at university, Hodgkinson and fellow student Fred Frith formed the seminal avant-rock group Henry Cow in 1968. Hodgkinson remained with Henry Cow as one of the band's core members until their demise in 1978 and composed a number of their musical pieces, most notably, \"Living in the Heart of the Beast\" (recorded on their 1975 album, \"In Praise of Learning\"), and \"Erk Gah\" (never formally recorded, but live versions appearing in \"The 40th Anniversary Henry Cow Box Set\"). Henry Cow was the foundation of Hodgkinson's musical education, and it was an opportunity for him to work closely with other instrumentalists and develop new musical landscapes. After Henry Cow split, Hodgkinson and fellow band member Chris Cutler compiled \"The Henry Cow Book\", a collection of documents and information about the band, published in 1981.\n\nIn November 1973, Hodgkinson (and other members of Henry Cow) participated in a live-in-the-studio performance of Mike Oldfield's \"Tubular Bells\" for the BBC. It is available on Oldfield's \"Elements\" DVD.\n\nIn 1980 Hodgkinson formed The Work, a post-punk band with guitarist-composer Bill Gilonis, bassist Mick Hobbs and drummer Rick Wilson. At the same time Hodgkinson and Gilonis formed the independent record label, Woof Records. Over the next few years, The Work toured Europe. After performing at a Rock in Opposition festival in Bonn with vocalist Catherine Jauniaux in 1982, the band and Jauniaux recorded \"Slow Crimes\" (1982) for the Woof label. Later that year, with a slightly altered line-up of Hodgkinson, Gilonis, Amos and Chris Cutler, they performed in Japan. A concert in Osaka in June 1982 was recorded with a cassette recorder halfway down the hall and was later cleaned up and released on an LP \"Live in Japan\" (1982). After the Japanese tour, The Work disbanded but reformed again in 1989 with the original line-up to record two industrial/noise albums, \"Rubber Cage\" (1989) and \"See\" (1992). In February 1987 Hodgkinson toured with South African band Kalahari Surfers, playing at the \"Rote Lieder DDR\" Festival of Political Songs.\n\nIn 1990 Hodgkinson and Ken Hyder, a Scottish percussionist and improviser, who had been performing together since 1978 (and used to be called Shams), toured Siberia, Soviet Far East and the heart of USSR (Moscow, Leningrad) as a duo under the banner \"Friendly British Invasion™: In Search for the Soviet Sham(an)s\" – probably the longest tour produced at the time independently from major Soviet concert officials (by distant Far-Eastern member of the Soviet Jazz Federation and due to the latter's assistance).\n\nLater on, they made many other trips to Russia and study trips to Siberia particularly to make contact with local musicians and ritual specialists. It was during these times that they met shamanic musician Gendos Chamzyryn from Tuva and as a trio, they toured Altay villages in the summer of 1998. Chamzyryn played a variety of traditional Tuvan instruments and used the deep-vocal Kargiraa style of overtone-singing.\n\nThe success of this \"shaman\" project resulted in the formation of K-Space, a band comprising Hodgkinson, Hyder and Chamzyryn. K-Space's name came from Kozyrev-Space, a space/time warp supposedly created by Russian astrophysicist Nicolai Kozyrev using a device he built called Kozyrev's Mirrors. Their music was \"sham beat\", which incorporated elements of shamanic culture and jazz. From 1999 they began touring Asia and Europe and have released four CDs since 2002.\n\nA free improvisation band Hodgkinson is deeply involved with is Konk Pack. Formed at the Szuenetjel Festival in Budapest in 1997 with Thomas Lehn from Cologne on synthesizer, Roger Turner from London on percussion and Hodgkinson on reeds and prepared guitar, the trio performs a blend of psychedelia, free jazz and electroacoustic improvisation. In 1999 they released a CD of live recordings \"The Big Deep\" and made further CDs in 2001, 2005, 2010 and 2013. In 2005 Konk Pack toured the United Kingdom with Lol Coxhill replacing Thomas Lehn. In 2007 they toured The Netherlands, Belgium and Germany with the original line-up.\n\nAs an improviser, Tim Hodgkinson performed with many musicians over the years, including Lol Coxhill, Fred Frith, Chris Cutler, Tom Cora, Lindsay Cooper, John Zorn, Evan Parker, Catherine Jauniaux and Charles Hayward. In December 2006, Cutler, Frith and Hodgkinson performed together at The Stone in New York City, their first concert performance since Henry Cow's demise in 1978.\n\nFrom 1983 to 1985 Hodgkinson managed the Cold Storage Recording Studios in Brixton, London, producing records for Fred Frith's Skeleton Crew, Peter Blegvad and others. He has written a book on the anthropology of music and contributed to periodicals such as \"Contemporary Music Review\", \"Musicworks\", \"Musica/Realta\", and \"Resonance\" on music and technology, ethnomusicology, improvisation and other topics. In 2016 his book \"Music and the Myth of Wholeness – Toward a New Aesthetic Paradigm\" was published by MIT Press.\n\nHodgkinson appeared in Nicolas Humbert and Werner Penzel's 1990 documentary film on Fred Frith, \"Step Across the Border\", rehearsing with Frith at Hodgkinson's home in Brixton, London in December 1988.\n\nTim Hodgkinson's first solo album was \"Splutter\" in 1986, consisting of improvisations on alto and baritone saxophones and clarinet, sometimes accompanied by electronics, sometimes multi-tracked. He followed it up with \"KLARNT\" in 2008, an album of eleven solo clarinet improvisations.\n\nBeginning in the early 1990s Hodgkinson again applied himself to composition, initially returning to the approach developed in his Henry Cow period.\n\nIn 1994 he released \"Each in Our Own Thoughts\", a collection of pieces including his first string quartet, and a piece written for Henry Cow in 1976 (\"Hold to the Zero Burn, Imagine\"), which was performed at the time (as \"Erk Gah\") but never recorded in the studio. When finally recorded in 1993 he brought in three other members of the original band: Chris Cutler, Lindsay Cooper and Dagmar Krause. A further piece \"Numinous Pools For Mental Orchestra\" was realised entirely with MIDI-instruments.\n\nHowever his work as an improviser by now made him far more aware of the limitations of his current way of writing. An encounter with Iancu Dumitrescu and the Romanian Spectralist school provided a turning point, after which he began to find new ways of developing musical structures out of the behaviours of sounds and unstable acoustic systems. This became evident with the release of the CD \"Pragma\" in 1998, on which the pieces are realised on a computer using a mix of live instruments and samples.\n\nIn 2000 Hodgkinson made \"Sang\", a collection of new compositions. The first and third pieces were performed by Hodgkinson alone, playing viola, piano, alto saxophone, percussion and MIDI instruments; the second piece \"GUSHe\", which he has often performed live, is for clarinet with electronic accompaniment, while the last, \"MÀ\" was performed by Federica Santoro (singing) with a montage made from recordings of other pieces of Hodgkinson's (a rehearsal with Banda Municipal de Barcelona and fragments of his second String Quartet).\n\nHodgkinson then released \"Sketch of Now\" on the Mode label in 2006. It comprises three compositions for the Romanian Hyperion Ensemble, of which Hodgkinson conducted two and played on one (conducted by Iancu Dumitrescu); two compositions performed by Hodgkinson: one for bass clarinet and tape, one for computer-modified cello and electric guitar; one piece for two clarinets, one doubling on bass, and piano, performed by Isabelle Duthoit, Jacques Di Donato and Pascale Berthelot. The track, \"Fragor\" appears in the 2010 film \"Shutter Island\", but was not featured on the soundtrack CD.\n\nThis was followed up in 2014 with \"Onsets\", a second CD for the Mode label. Five of the six pieces are performed by the Hyperion Ensemble, and one piece by the New York based ensemble Ne(x)tworks. Hodgkinson conducts all the pieces and also plays bass clarinet on “Ulaaraar.”\n\nIn 2015, he released \"CUTS\" on the Freeform Association label, which groups together three compositions having a mathematical approach in their structure. “Hard without I” is performed by the composer on solo bass clarinet. “On Earth” is Hodgkinson's second piece to be performed by Ne(x)tworks, this time with Joan La Barbara. “Ananké” is performed by the Hyperion Ensemble. The latter two pieces are conducted by the composer.\n\nTim Hodgkinson's music displays many personalities: from the serious and complex musical structures of Henry Cow to the angry post-punk crash of guitars in The Work; from free-wheeling improvisations with Konk Pack to the contemporary classical music of his recordings for the Mode label.\n\nThe instruments he plays are principally reeds (clarinet, bass clarinet, and alto saxophone), but with Henry Cow he mostly played keyboards, and with The Work, K-Space and Konk Pack he played and plays lap steel guitar. He also sang in The Work. For his solo recordings he added viola, percussion, sampling, sequencing and MIDI.\n\nHodgkinson is a self-taught musician. He started formal piano and clarinet lessons as a child, but quickly abandoned them. He then began writing down music, initially using a keyboard but soon switched to writing the sounds in his head directly onto paper. To assist with this process, he studied sight-singing with Andras Ranki at Morley College, London in 1983.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1844720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844720", "title": "Penmynydd", "text": "Penmynydd\n\nPenmynydd (), meaning top of the mountain in Welsh, is a village and community on Anglesey, Wales. It is known for being the birthplace of the Tudors of Penmynydd, which became the House of Tudor.\nThe population according to the United Kingdom Census 2011 was 465. The community includes the village of Star.\n\nPenmynydd is located on Anglesey off the north west coast of Wales, situated on a slight hill on the B5420 road between Menai Bridge and Llangefni, at . The Royal Mail postcode begins LL61 with a community population taken at the 2011 census of 465. \nEdward Greenly gave the name of the village to the Monian ‘Penmynydd Zone of Metamorphism', a Precambrian blueschist terrane stretching along the hill from Red Wharf Bay to Newborough; the blueschist event has been dated to about 550 million years ago. \nWhen Welsh nobleman Rhys ap Tudur was executed in 1412, lands of the Penmynydd family were forfeited. The village is notable for its early 17th century almshouses. The bwthyn at Minffordd was the first place on Anglesey used for Nonconformist worship in the early 18th century. The village includes the Neuadd Lwyd, a former Victorian rectory that was converted into a country-house hotel. A radio communication transmission mast was installed in 2002 a few yards north of the village at the top of the hill.\n\nPenmynydd was the home of the Tudors of Penmynydd, from which sprang the House of Tudor. In the 14th century, a resident of Penmynydd, Tudur ap Goronwy, had five sons, of whom one, Maredudd ap Tudur, was father of the Owen Tudor who joined Henry V of England's army and subsequently established himself at court. After Henry died, his widow, Catherine of Valois, married Owen Tudor in secret around 1429 and had three sons. Their grandson, Henry Tudor, successfully claimed the crown of England, becoming King Henry VII.\n\nThe village contains the Grade II* listed building Plas Penmynydd. The house was originally built in 1576 by Richard Owen Tudor, a representative of the senior line of the Tudors of Penmynydd. It was sold following the death of his descendant, another Richard Owen Tudor who had been Sheriff of Anglesey in 1657, and the house passed through several families. It was listed on 2 May 1952. In the 2000s, it was restored by Richard Cuthbertson and featured on the BBC Wales television series \"Hidden Houses of Wales\" in 2010.\n\nThe community was part of the Llanfihangel Ysgeifiog electoral ward for elections to the Isle of Anglesey County Council. Following the 2012 Isle of Anglesey electoral boundary changes Penmynydd was transferred to a new multi-councillor ward of Aethwy.\n\n"}
{"id": "1844723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844723", "title": "Yuki Kaida", "text": "Yuki Kaida\n\nShe is one of the few Japanese voice actors to have completed their formal education in the United States. Consequently, she speaks multiple languages with varying degrees of fluency outside of Japanese. She is affectionately nicknamed by her Japanese fans.\n\nKaida was born in Tokyo, Japan, and was raised in the Shinjuku ward of the city. Shortly following her graduation from Shinjuku High School, she enrolled in the International University of Art and Music in San Diego, California, and studied abroad for four years, where she majored in musical theater. She returned to Japan to focus on voice acting, making her debut in the OVA \"Southern Wind\" as Himiko, followed up by some minor roles in other television animation; but her first major role as a voice actor came when she was cast as Kurapika in \"Hunter × Hunter\" in 1999, after which her popularity began to grow. However, she went on to perform her arguably most well-known role, that of Shusuke Fuji in \"The Prince of Tennis\", which began airing in 2001; she reprises the role for later adaptations as well as for voice acting events to promote the series and for CDs sung as the character. She is also known for her wide vocal range and feminine natural voice, being skilled at voicing males as well as adult women such as Ouka from \".hack//Legend of the Twilight\", gag characters such as Son Goku/Patalliro from \"Patalliro Saiyuki!\", and young females such as Machi Kuragi from \"Fruits Basket\".\n\nIn addition to voice acting, she is also a prominent radio personality, and is the current announcer for Sadao Watanabe's radio show, \"Nightly Yours\". She is nicknamed , which is also her blog nickname, and , the latter being a corruption of the former. She is also a member of the voice acting unit AZU alongside Junko Takeuchi and Junko Minagawa, and is a member of the unit Takada Hiroyuki alongside Hiroki Takahashi.\n\nShe is notably multilingual, competent in French and Chinese, as well as being a fluent English speaker; the latter being evident in her Western education, her interest in Queen and the Chronicles of Narnia, and also by having an all-English speaking role as Angela Burton in \"Genshiken\". Her other hobbies include watching rakugo, especially Kosanji Yanagiya, and baseball, while she also has a pet dog named Vivian. She is commonly mistaken for her friend and fellow voice actress Yūko Kaida, due to the fact that their names differ by only two characters and one letter in romanization.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1844724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844724", "title": "Wild Zero", "text": "Wild Zero\n\nWild Zero is a 1999 Japanese comedy horror film directed by Tetsuro Takeuchi. The film stars Masashi Endō as Ace, a big fan of the Japanese rock group Guitar Wolf. After assisting the group, Guitar Wolf makes Ace his blood brother and give him a whistle to blow during times of trouble. Ace later meets Tobio (Shitichai Kwancharu) during a gas station robbery. The group later find themselves in the middle of a zombie invasion.\n\n\"Wild Zero\" was shown as part of the Midnight Madness series at the 2000 Toronto International Film Festival.\n\n\"Wild Zero\" was directed by Takeuchi Tetsuro who was predominantly known for shooting music videos. The film was shot in Thailand with members of the Thai military and their families as zombies.\n\nThe film was released in Japan on August 8, 1999. The film was shown at the 2000 Toronto International Film Festival.\n\nSynapse Film released \"Wild Zero\" on DVD on October 28, 2003.\n\n\"Variety\" gave the film a mixed review, stating that \"Pic has everything the midnight crowd could possibly want, although such items generally have a hard time hitting other parts of the theatrical clock.\" The online film database Allmovie gave the film a three and a half star rating out of five, stating that \"this film's giddy energy and unrepentantly silly story line are a hoot and a holler of fun.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1844725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844725", "title": "Diezel", "text": "Diezel\n\nDiezel Amplification GmbH is a company based in Bad Steben, Germany, founded by Peter Diezel and Peter Stapfer, that builds high-end guitar amplifiers. The company was established in 1992.\n\n\nDiezel offers 4x12 and 2x12 cabinets in front or rear loaded configurations. The front loaded cabinets come standard with V30 or G12K100 speakers while the rear loaded cabinets come standard with a Hemp cone speaker. All cabinets are now made in Germany with black grill cloth.\n\nThe following bands and artists use or have used Diezel Amps: Killswitch Engage, Adam Jones of Tool, Matthew Bellamy of Muse, Metallica, Dave Meniketti of Y&T, Billy Corgan, Nine Inch Nails, Guns N' Roses, Slipknot, Ian D'Sa of Billy Talent, Brent Hinds and Bill Kelliher of Mastodon, Korn, Wes Borland of Limp Bizkit, Mike Mushok of Staind, Greg O'Shea of The Prophecy, Within Temptation, Neal Schon, Buckethead, Dir En Grey, Ayabie, George Lynch, Godsmack, Mark Tremonti, Genghis Tron, Shinedown, Myles Kennedy of Alter Bridge, Miles Holmwood of Stereos, Weezer, Dave Cee of The Meese Commission, Warren DeMartini, The Arusha Accord, Tadashi, Steve Robello of Dublin Death Patrol and Barry Stock of Three Days Grace.\n\n"}
{"id": "1844729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844729", "title": "Across the Sky", "text": "Across the Sky\n\nAcross the Sky was a Dove Award-nominated Christian band formed in Nashville, Tennessee during 2001 by Ben Kolarcik and Justin Unger. Both musicians are of the singer-songwriter style. Their self-titled debut was released in 2003, spawning a top ten song and three wide release singles. Across the Sky's music is a style combining light rock, pop, and folk. The group toured and recorded for two years under the Word Records Label before disbanding in 2005 when both artists decided to pursue different career paths.\n\nBen Kolarcik's earliest performances were in his home church of Southeast Christian Church, in Louisville. These experiences led him to the decision to be a full \ntime independent artist. After high school, he married Melissa Strandell. Opportunities came about to perform consistently, nationally and \ninternationally, including such places as Australia, Costa Rica, New Zealand, and Poland. A self-taught guitarist, he also learned to play piano and lap dulcimer. Kolarcik references his influences as being The Beatles, The Police and Jeff Buckley to Keith Green, Rick James, Jimi Hendrix and Rich Mullins.\n\nJustin Unger had similar experiences. Unger was raised on Christian music. Justin began playing piano at age 10, and trumpet in the school band. Unger began writing music at 17 for his grandfather, who was a pastor. He also started a Christian band called \"Emmaus,\" performing as lead vocalist on the songs that his grandfather and he had written.\n\nAcross the Sky was formed when solo artists, Ben Kolarcik and Justin Unger, who were under consideration by Word Records, met and began collaborations in Nashville. Both artists had a history of performance and music ministry in their hometowns and in regional tours. After deciding on becoming a duo act, the pair sat down to work on music together. After composing 50 or so titles, they settled on 12 for their first album. The pair was assisted along the way by such notable Contemporary Christian musicians and writers as Cindy Morgan, Scott Krippayne, Matthew Gerrard, Jeff Borders, Kyle Matthews and Tony Wood.\n\nTheir self-titled album was released in 2003. Much of the music on this project is artist composed. During their run they toured extensively around the US and internationally. They toured with major established artists such as Michael W. Smith, Mark Schultz, Avalon, and MercyMe. Their debut album and tours garnered the duo a GMA Dove Award nomination for New Artist of the Year in 2004. Also in 2004 their song \"Masquerade\" was included on the Platinum Album WOW Hits 2004, an annual compilation CD of top artists of the previous year.\n\nWhile still together they received radio play throughout North America, Latin America, Europe, and Australia. During this period, their single \"Found By You\" peaked at number 5 on the AC Christian Charts in the United States. Across the Sky disbanded in 2005.\n\nThe songs \"Broken World\" and \"Give it all Away\" were released as singles and received airplay in the US and radio stations in Australia, Canada, South America, and Europe.\nTheir song \"Everywhere She Goes\" was featured in the first season of \"One Tree Hill\" on the WB network.\n\nAfter the disbandment of Across the Sky in 2005, Justin Unger moved to Prescott, AZ with his wife and children where he is a music minister at an alternative style megachurch called The Heights. Unger continues song-writing and composition. He released a solo CD titled \"Disengage\" on October 30, 2007, followed by 4 other albums in 2009, 2012, and 2016.\n\nBen Kolarcik resides in Phoenix, Arizona with his wife and children where he has pursued a career as a writer and composer. Kolarcik tours as well. He still performs nationally with occasional bookings in other countries.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1844733", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844733", "title": "Teofila Ludwika Zasławska", "text": "Teofila Ludwika Zasławska\n\nPrincess Teofila Ludwika Zasławska (ca. 1650 – November 15, 1709) was a member of the Polish nobility (), known as the perhaps most significant heiress and landowner of her contemporary Poland.\n\nShe was the daughter of Katarzyna Sobieska, who was the sister of Jan III Sobieski, the king of The Kingdom of Poland and the Grand Duchy of Lithuania. Her father was Władysław Dominik Zasławski, a Polish nobleman of Ruthenian stock of the house of Ostrogski, one of the richest magnates in Poland.\n\nTeofila Ludwika Zasławska was an heiress of the Ostrogski family, one of the great Ruthenian princely families of the Grand Duchy of Lithuania. She was the fifth ordinate of the Ostrogski Ordination (one of the largest landed estates in the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth). Her father was the third, and one of her sons would become the sixth ordinate of it.\n\nTeofila Ludwika Zasławska married the Great Crown Hetman of the Commonwealth, Dymitr Jerzy Wiśniowiecki in 1671, and after his death in 1682, married Prince Józef Karol Lubomirski (Joseph Carl Lubomirski) in 1683.\n\nUpon her first husband's death, she inherited holdings that included Baranów Sandomierski Castle, which had become her main residence in 1677. After the death of her brother, Aleksander Janusz Zasławski in 1673, she became the only heir to one of the largest estates in the Commonwealth, the Ostrogski Ordination. This ordination was the largest one in the Volhyn, accounting for  – about a third of the Volhynian Voivodeship – with over 1,000 settlements, including several dozen towns. As a result of her marriage to Lubomirski, the large landed estates of the Ostrogski Ordination in Poland were transferred to the Lubomirski family. The combined fortune of Zasławskis and Lubomirskis would become for a time the largest fortune in the Commonwealth.\n\nLubomirskis owned several palaces where they lived, all of them designed or redesigned by the royal architect Tylman van Gameren, including palaces in Lublin, Warsaw, Lubartów, and the Baranów Sandomierski Castle in Baranów. The Baranów Sandomierski Castle with arcaded courtyard, and surrounded by massive gardens, became commonly known as the \"little Wawel\".\n\nShe and Lubomirski had three children, Prince Aleksander Dominik Lubomirski, Princess Teresa Lubomirska, and Princess Marianna Lubomirska. Prince Józef Karol Lubomirski had an ongoing extramarital affair which became public, resulting in Teofila's attempt at declaring him legally insane. They were formally separated until his death in 1702.\n"}
{"id": "1844734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844734", "title": "Anholt (Denmark)", "text": "Anholt (Denmark)\n\nAnholt () is a Danish island in the Kattegat, midway between Jutland and Sweden at the entrance to the North Sea in Northern Europe. There are 145 permanent residents as of 1 January 2016. Anholt is seven miles (11 km) long and about four miles (6.4 km) wide at its widest, and covers an area of . Anholt is part of Norddjurs Municipality in Region Midtjylland. Before the 2007 municipal reform, it was in Grenå Municipality.\n\nThe western fifth of Anholt consists of hilly moraine country, while the eastern four-fifths of the island consist of mostly flat raised seabed with some low hills, former wind-blown sand dunes. Only the western moraine hills are inhabited. The eastern part, called \"Ørkenen\" (\"The Desert\") is treeless; the government has protected the area and permits no building there. The desert has never been ploughed. For this reason the original stone age topography from when the glaciation ceased, at the end of the last ice age 10,000 years ago, is still visible in many places. This includes former shorelines inland, consequences of different sea levels over time. The unploughed features of The Desert are unique for Denmark, as well as for this part of Europe.\n\nThe inhabited part of Anholt has two villages, The Harbour and Anholt Town, inland. There are also 300 to 400 summer houses, some of them rentals.\n\nThe western part of Anholt is a moraine landscape. The small village is situated in the middle of the landscape, whereas the harbour (built 1902) is at the northwestern tip of the island. The eastern part of the island is known as Ørkenen (\"the desert\"). This desert-like area is the largest of its kind in Northern Europe. The desertification was caused by deforestation. It is not a true desert, but a lichen heath, with some 300 to 400 types of lichen.\n\nGreat efforts are being taken to preserve the scenery and prevent the effects of erosion. In 1995/6 the Danish Heath Society cleared large areas in the south part of Ørkenen of mountain pine. On Totten, the eastern tip of the island, there is one of the biggest colonies of seals in Denmark. This part of the island is closed to visitors.\n\nDangerous reefs and shoals surround Anholt. Consequently, in 1560 King Frederick II ordered the erection of bascule lights at Skagen, Anholt, and Kullen Lighthouse to mark the main route through Danish waters from the North Sea to the Baltic. Despite the bascule light, on 10/11 November 1716 the 60-gun third-rate , Captain Robert Johnson, ran ashore on the island of Anholt during heavy weather and was wrecked. Most of the people on her were saved. \n\nAn ecological consequence of the introduction of the bascule light was the deforestation of Anholt for firewood, resulting in Anholt's \"desert\". By the time of the switch after 1600 to imported pit coal, considerable damage had been done.\n\nIn 1785 a 35-meter tower was erected with an open fire. In 1805 a lantern replaced the fire and in 1838 a mirror was added. Then in early 1842 a flashing light replaced the fixed light, and a lightship was towed to a station of the Knobben, off Anholt. Around the mid-19th century there was also a floating light stationed several miles out from the lighthouse, near the end of the several miles long reef. This floating light operated from May to December. Today's tower dates to 1881, at which time an oil lamp replaced the fire. At one time there was also a beacon fire in the middle of the east coast of the island, but that has disappeared. The present Anholt Fyr (lighthouse) belongs to the Danish Maritime Safety Administration and has the status of a protected historical landmark.\n\nAnholt has been settled since the New Stone Age and one may still find flint flakes on the “desert”. There have been some Old Stone Age finds as well. The island has never been the object of systematic archaeological investigation, so no Bronze Age remnants have been found. Some Viking finds have been made.\n\nThe 1231 land register of King Valdemar II shows that the king owned a house or a hunting lodge on the Sønderbjerg, the island's highest point. Anholt was thus property of the crown. In 1441 the island was under the administration of Kalø Lehn, headed by Otto Nielsen Rosenkrands. Anholt belonged to the parish of Morup in the Danish province of Halland until the middle of the 16th century, when a church was built on the island itself. The island remained Danish when Denmark ceded Halland to Sweden in 1645. A story claims that a negotiator had left a glass of beer placed over the island on the map during the peace negotiations. A more plausible explanation is that Swedish forces had not conquered the fairly remote island and had little interest in it.\n\nIn 1668 Anholt was sold to the tax farmer Peder Jensen Grove. Six years later his widow married Hans Rostgaard of Krogerup and the island then came at the hands of the Rostgaard von der Maase family. Most recently, lawyer Jens Christian Rostgaard von der Maase, of Copenhagen, has owned the greater and protected part of the island. \n\nEarly in the Gunboat War (part of the Napoleonic Wars), the Danes closed the lighthouse on Anholt. On 5 December 1808 the bomb vessel HMS \"Proselyte\" was wrecked on Anholt Reef while caught in the ice; all her crew was saved. She had stationed herself off the island on 9 November 1808 to carry a light for the safety of passing convoys.\n\nFollowing the loss of \"Proselyte\", on 18 May 1809 the 64-gun third rate HMS \"Standard\", under Captain Askew Paffard Hollis, and the 18-pounder 36-gun frigate \"Owen Glendower\" captured the island. A party of seamen and marines under the command of Captain William Selby of \"Owen Glendower\", with the assistance of Captain Edward Nicolls of the \"Standard\"s marines, landed. The Danish garrison of 170 men put up a sharp but ineffectual resistance that killed one British marine and wounded two; the garrison then surrendered. The British took immediate possession of the island. The principal objective of the mission was to restore the lighthouse on the island to its pre-war state to facilitate the movement of British men of war and merchantmen navigating the dangerous seas there. The Danes attempted to retake the island. However, the Battle of Anholt (27 March 1811) resulted in many Danish casualties and proved a decisive British victory. There is a monument commemorating the battle in Anholt village. \n\nWhile captain of , Francis Austen visited Anholt in 1812 and wrote about it to his sister, the novelist Jane Austen. He described the lighthouse in some detail and also gave some impressions of the island:\n\nAntecedent to the war between England and Denmark and the consequent occupation of the island by the English, the Anholters paid a small rent to the proprietor of the soil, who is a Danish nobleman residing at Copenhagen; but at present they are considered and fed as prisoners of war by the English. They are an exceedingly poor people, and seem to enjoy but a small proportion of worldly comfort.\n\nOn 28 February 1812, the 16-gun brig HMS \"Fly\" was wrecked on Anholt, but without loss of life. Then on 19 August 1812, Dano-Norwegian gunboats captured off the island after an engagement. The British held Anholt until the Treaty of Kiel ended the war on 15 January 1814.\n\nIn the 1940s a British visitor heard children reciting a verse which they did not understand the meaning of: \"\". The ditty, it turned out, had been a nursery rhyme brought to the island by British soldiers during the Napoleonic wars.\n\nDenmark was neutral during the war and neither side disturbed the Kattegat until late in the war when the British laid a minefield. During the operation the British sank 10 trawlers off Anholt.\n\nThere were several World War II sinkings off Anholt.\n\nThere is a small graveyard on Anholt that holds the remains of five allied airmen. Three are from an Avro Lancaster of 428 (RCAF) Squadron that crashed into the Baltic on 30 August 1944 on a raid to Stettin. Another grave is of Flying Officer Ronald Kenneth Stratford DFM of 460 (RAAF); his Lancaster was also shot down on a raid to Stettin on 30 August 1944. On 15 December a Ju 88 night fighter shot down an Avro Lancaster of 106 Squadron, which had a crew of eight. Only three bodies washed ashore, one of them on Anholt; the others were never recovered.\n\nA daily ferry from Grenå on the eastern coast of Jutland takes about three hours to reach Anholt. The ferry detours around the wind farm, which will compensate for the increased fuel consumption in order to maintain sailing schedules.\n\nAnholt has an airport with a grass runway. There are daily flights to Anholt during the summer and weekly flights in the winter. Flights depart from Roskilde Airport on the Danish main island, Zealand, via Copenhagen Air Taxi. The flights also go on to Læsø Island, and return to Roskilde from there, via Anholt. One can also fly from Varberg, Sweden, via charter from Varbergs Flygklubb, a flying club.\n\nAfter some years of political debate, construction commenced in 1899 on a fishing harbour for the island. The construction was finished and the port entered service in 1902. The harbour functioned as a safe haven in storms for the vessels fishing in the Kattegat, as well as a home port for Anholt's own fishermen. Today there is a marina at the harbour and the ferry docks here too. In 2003 Anholt celebrated the 100th anniversary of the opening, but one year late.\n\nThe first rescue facility on the island was established in 1878 at the lighthouse. It was abandoned in 1926. The second rescue facility was built in 1919, but abandoned in 1938. Today there is a rescue vessel stationed at a mole in the harbour. Over the last 200 years over 200 vessels have foundered near Anholt.\n\n60,000 people visit Anholt each year. From the end of June to the first half of August the harbor is a tourist resort with restaurants and shops. Danish, Norwegian, Swedish and German yachts are among the most common sailing boats seen at Anholt. From the two highest points on the island – Sønderbjerg (48 m) and Nordbjerg (39 m) – one can see Jutland or Sweden on a clear day. Outside the summer season, there are few visitors to Anholt. Currently an effort is made to extend the tourist season via events such as an Anholt Marathon and festivals.\n\nDONG Energy has built the Anholt Offshore Wind Farm in the Kattegat, between Anholt island and Djursland (on the mainland). It consists of 111 wind turbines and has a nameplate capacity of 400 megawatts (MW). it is Denmark's largest marine wind park, and among the five largest marine wind parks in the world. It provides energy to the island to replace much of the current diesel-powered electricity. The main part of the electricity is distributed to the mainland via a sea cable to Jutland, entering land by the town, Grenå. Fishermen have been compensated for the loss of fisheries during construction. With the wind farm complete, net fishing is allowed, but trawling is banned inside the park-area.\n\nThe school, north of the meeting house, was built in 1917 and enlarged in 1956. It teaches students from kindergarten to year 9. The present church was built in 1819, after the previous one was destroyed during British occupation of the island in the early 1810s. There is evidence in the foundations of an even older church. Anholt has a tradition for building houses that include materials from flotsam.\n\n"}
{"id": "1844736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844736", "title": "Samantha Béart", "text": "Samantha Béart\n\nSamantha Béart is a British actress.\n\nHer first major role was as Random Dent, in the radio version of \"Mostly Harmless\" the fifth series of \"The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy\", as well as short film, feature, theatre and radio parts. She played Random Dent and the Nutrimatic Machine in the stage adaptation of Hitchhiker's Guide that toured the UK in 2012 and 2013.\n\nShe trained at the Guildhall School of Music and Drama, graduating in 2009\n"}
{"id": "1844737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844737", "title": "The Roots of Heaven (film)", "text": "The Roots of Heaven (film)\n\nThe Roots of Heaven is a 1958 American adventure film in CinemaScope and DeLuxe Color made for 20th Century Fox, directed by John Huston and produced by Darryl F. Zanuck. The screenplay by Romain Gary and Patrick Leigh Fermor is based on Romain Gary's 1956 Prix Goncourt winning novel \"The Roots of Heaven\" (\"Les racines du ciel\").\n\nThe film starred Errol Flynn, Juliette Gréco, Trevor Howard, Eddie Albert, Orson Welles, Paul Lukas, Herbert Lom and Grégoire Aslan. The film itself was shot on location in French Equatorial Africa.\n\nHuston later said \"Roots of Heaven\" \"could have been a very fine film. And largely owing to me was not a good film at all.\"\n\n\"Filmink\" called it \"possibly the first big budget studio film about an eco-terrorist (unless you count Tarzan movies).\"\n\nSet in French Equatorial Africa, the film tells the story of Morel (Trevor Howard), a crusading environmentalist who sets out to preserve the elephants from extinction as a lasting symbol of freedom for all humanity. He is helped by Minna (Juliette Gréco), a nightclub hostess, and Forsythe (Errol Flynn), a disgraced British military officer hoping to redeem himself.\n\n20th Century Fox bought the film rights the novel in April 1957 for a price of more than $100,000. In May, Darryl F. Zanuck announced he would produce the film independently for Fox (he had a contract with the studio to make films for them), and wanted John Huston to direct. (This was before the novel had even been published in the US, but it had already sold over 300,000 copies in Europe). Zanuck said the theme of the film was \"simple... A man comes to the conclusion that if we don't stop killing people we destroy ourselves.\" And he says, \"Why not start with our biggest companions on earth, the elephants, whose only enemy is man?\"\nHe later added:\nThis picture is really great for us - intellectually great. Whether it's commercially great, whether people will grab on to it, we must wait and see. If they grab on to a man in love with a bridge, then why shouldn't they grab on to a man in love with an elephant?\nHuston said he wanted to direct the novel before Zanuck approached him:\nAfter my experience with Selznick [on \"A Farewell to Arms\"] - all those memorandum! - I'd sworn never to work with a producer again, but I did want very much to make this particular film. So we met several times and talked it through and finally agreed to try it.\nHuston agreed to direct for a fee he described as \"slightly higher\" than $300,000. Regarding the irony of a big game hunter like Huston making a movie about a militant elephant conservationist, Huston said \"Contrary to prevailing opinion, I never found an elephant big enough to justify the sin of killing one.\"\nZanuck headed to the Belgian Congo in late 1957 to scout locations, and Gary was hired to write the script.\n\nWilliam Holden was mentioned as a possibility for the lead part of Morel, as was James Mason. Holden wanted to make the film but he was under contract to Paramount, who would not let him make the film unless he signed another contract with them, which he refused to do.\n\nThe lead role was taken by Trevor Howard. Errol Flynn signed to play a key support role but was given top billing. Flynn left the cast of the play \"The Master of Thornfield\" to appear in the movie. (Flynn and John Huston had famously brawled at a Hollywood party over a decade earlier.)\n\nJuliette Gréco, who had been in Zanuck's version of \"The Sun Also Rises\" and since become the producer's lover, was signed as the female lead. Eddie Albert and Paul Lukas rounded out the main cast. Orson Welles signed to do a cameo.\n\nThe book was eventually published in the US and became a best seller.\n\nThe film was mostly made on location in Africa over five months, in the Belgian Congo and Chad in the Northern Cameroons, where the elephants were located. The cast and crew suffered from the heat, malaria and other tropical diseases. Temperatures would routinely reach 134 degrees in the day and 95 degrees at night; people had to shower four or five times a night. On some days it would be a four-hour drive to the location and back and all the water had to be flown in.\n\nIt is the memories of the challenging location that Flynn mentions with affection in his memoirs \"My Wicked, Wicked Ways\" (1959). The company reported 900 sick calls from a cast and crew of 120 - however Flynn did not fall ill. Juliette Gréco contracted a serious illness.\n\n\"I would never make a picture there again,\" said Zanuck of Africa. However he was proud that \"There is not one dubbed line, transparency plate or process shot in the whole picture.\"\n\nThe unit then moved to Paris for studio filming. While there, Gréco fell ill with a re-occurrence of her illness. Errol Flynn had a re-occurrence of his malaria, requiring hospitalisation as well.\n\nOrson Welles did his part in two days at a Paris studio. His rate was normally $15,000 but he did it gratis in order to repay Zanuck for helping Welles find the funds to complete the movie \"Othello\" (1952).\n\nHuston later said, \"I still don't want to have to work with a producer again but if I had to, I'd certainly choose Darryl. He's been very good, co-operative and decent throughout.\"\n\nThe movie was edited in London rather than Paris so that Zanuck could be near Gréco, who was making a movie there.\n\nThe film earned rentals of $3 million in the United States and Canada and recorded admissions of 1,266,452 in France.\n\nThe \"Los Angeles Times\" thought that \"John Huston may have bitten off more than he could chew in \"The Roots of Heaven,\" but much of it makes for thoughtful mastication... it sometimes seems too strange to be real.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1844738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844738", "title": "Merrett–Murray Medal", "text": "Merrett–Murray Medal\n\nThe Merrett–Murray Medal has been awarded annually since 1997, to the player adjudged the Brisbane Lions club champion over the immediately preceding Australian Football League (AFL) season. It is named after Roger Merrett and Kevin Murray. Merrett was a champion at the Brisbane Bears, while Murray was a legend at the Fitzroy Lions, the two clubs which merged to form the Brisbane Lions. The voting system, as of the 2017 AFL season, consists of the senior coach and assistant coaches scoring players based on their overall performance, influence on the game, team contribution and compliance with team values. The most votes a player can receive in a single game is twelve.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1844740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844740", "title": "Robert Gottlieb", "text": "Robert Gottlieb\n\nRobert Adams Gottlieb (born April 29, 1931) is an American writer and editor. He has been editor-in-chief of Simon & Schuster, Alfred A. Knopf, and \"The New Yorker\".\n\nRobert Gottlieb was born to a Jewish family in New York City in 1931 and grew up in Manhattan. During his childhood, he \"was your basic, garden-variety, ambitious, upwardly mobile, hard-working Jewish boy from Brooklyn. I was bound to go beyond my parents. It was simply the way things were.” His middle name was given to him in honor of his uncle, Arthur Adams who is now known to have been a Soviet spy.\n\nGottlieb graduated from Columbia University in 1952, and then spent two years at Cambridge University before joining Simon & Schuster in 1955.\n\nGottlieb joined Simon & Schuster in 1955 as an editorial assistant to Jack Goodman, the editor-in-chief. Within ten years he himself became the editor-in-chief. At that publisher, Gottlieb's most notable discovery, which he edited, was \"Catch-22,\" by the then-unknown Joseph Heller.\n\nIn 1968, Gottlieb along with Nina Bourne and Anthony Schulte, moved to Alfred A. Knopf as editor-in-chief; soon after he became president. He left in 1987 to succeed William Shawn as editor of \"The New Yorker\", staying in that position until 1992. After his departure from \"The New Yorker,\" Gottlieb returned to Alfred A. Knopf as editor \"ex officio\".\n\nGottlieb has been a frequent contributor to \"The New York Review of Books\", \"The New Yorker\", and \"The New York Times Book Review\", and has been the dance critic for \"The New York Observer\" since 1999. He is the author of biographies of George Balanchine, Sarah Bernhardt, and the family of Charles Dickens, as well as of a collection of his critical essays. \"A Certain Style\", Gottlieb's lavishly illustrated book about the plastic handbags of which he was a major collector, was published by Alfred A. Knopf. He edited three major anthologies: \"Reading Jazz\", \"Reading Dance\", and (with Robert Kimball) \"Reading Lyrics\".\n\nGottlieb suffered some ignominy for rejecting \"A Confederacy of Dunces\" by John Kennedy Toole, a book that later won the Pulitzer Prize when it was published posthumously after the author's suicide.\n\nGottlieb's autobiography, \"Avid Reader: A Life\", was published in September 2016.\n\n\"Gottlieb is widely considered to be one of the greatest editors of the second half of the 20th century,\" is a claim written into the press release to promote Gottlieb's 2015 autobiography, \"Avid Reader: A Life\".\n\nGottlieb has edited novels by John Cheever, Doris Lessing, Chaim Potok, Charles Portis, Salman Rushdie, John Gardner, Len Deighton, John le Carré, Ray Bradbury, Elia Kazan, Margaret Drabble, Michael Crichton, Mordecai Richler and Toni Morrison, and non-fiction books by Bill Clinton, Janet Malcolm, Katharine Graham, Nora Ephron, Katharine Hepburn, Barbara Tuchman, Jessica Mitford, Robert Caro, Antonia Fraser, Lauren Bacall, Liv Ullmann, Paul Simon, Bob Dylan, Bruno Bettelheim, Carl Schorske, and many others.\n\nIn a 1994 interview with \"The Paris Review\", Gottlieb described his need to \"surrender\" to a book. \"The more you have surrendered,\" he said, \"the more jarring its errors appear. I read a manuscript very quickly, the moment I get it. I usually won't use a pencil the first time through because I'm just reading for impressions. When I read the end, I'll call the writer and say, I think it's very fine (or whatever), but I think there are problems \"here\" and \"here\". At that point I don't know why I think that—I just think it. Then I go back and read the manuscript again, more slowly, and I find and mark the places where I had negative reactions to try to figure out what's wrong. The second time through I think about solutions—maybe this needs expanding, maybe there's too much of \"this\" so it's blurring \"that\".\"\n\nFor many years Gottlieb was associated with New York City Ballet, serving as a member of its board of directors. He has published many books by people from the dance world, including Mikhail Baryshnikov and Margot Fonteyn. He is also a member of the Board of Trustees of the Miami City Ballet.\n\nGottlieb married Muriel Higgins in 1952; they had one child, Roger. In 1969, Gottlieb married Maria Tucci, an actress whose father, the novelist Niccolò Tucci, was one of Gottlieb's writers. They have two children: Lizzie Gottlieb, a film director, and Nicholas (Nicky), who is the subject of one of his sister's documentary films, \"Today's Man\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1844741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844741", "title": "Todd River", "text": "Todd River\n\nThe Todd River is an ephemeral river in the southern Northern Territory, central Australia. The origins of the Todd River are in the MacDonnell Ranges, where it flows past the Telegraph Station, almost through the center of Alice Springs, through Heavitree Gap at the southern end of Alice Springs and continuing on for some distance, passing through the western part of the Simpson Desert, as it becomes a tributary of the Hale River, and eventually flowing into Lake Eyre in South Australia.\n\nThe indigenous Arrernte people know this river as Lhere Mparntwe (pronounced ler-ra m-barn-twa).\n\nThe Todd is in a very arid part of Australia and has zero to very low flow during 95% of the year. When it does flow, it carries a heavy sediment load picked up from the grazing land around the Bond Springs homestead which lends its waters a milky chocolate colour and renders them completely opaque.\n\nThe river's English name was given by surveyor W. W. Mills, after Lady Alice Todd (née Alice Gillam Bell), wife of Charles Todd, previously Postmaster General of South Australia.\n\nThe Todd River is integral to the city of Alice Springs, which has its central business district built on the edge of the river. A large portion of the Alice Springs municipal area is situated on a flood plain of the Todd River, created by flooding upstream of the east-west barrier created by the Heavitree Range, a local segment of the MacDonnell Ranges. The Todd runs south through this range at Heavitree Gap along with the main road and rail links connecting Alice Springs to Adelaide. Heavy flows of the Todd can cut road and rail access, and the bottle neck effect of the Gap can cause flooding in many parts of the town. There have been numerous cases of people drowning as often people camp in the riverbed and the flooding can occur very rapidly and unexpectedly from heavy rains upstream.\n\nHeavy rainfalls in the catchment to the north of Alice Springs cause the river to start flowing through the town around 6 to 8 hours later. The river can change from its normal dry bed to a bank-to-bank flow within a matter of 15 minutes, and it is possible to follow the leading edge of the flow as it snakes through town at a walking pace.\n\nThe riverbed contains sites and trees sacred to the local Arrente people including strong associations with Yeperenye (Caterpillar) Dreaming and with certain old red-river gums in the river representing Kwekatja; pre-initiated boys following the river north.\n\nThe Henley-on-Todd Regatta has been held in Alice Springs annually since 1961. The ironic regatta is held on the dry riverbed, and draws up to 20,000 spectators. Bottomless boats are picked up by the competitors standing within them and running down the course. The regatta carries insurance against the risk of water in the riverbed. The Henley-on-Todd Regatta has once been cancelled, in 1993, due to flooding - the river had too much water for the race.\n\nOther events are held in the dry riverbed, including the closing ceremony for the 2006 Alice Festival. Camping in the riverbed is illegal, although this law is rarely enforced.\n\nA flow of water in the river is quite an event for the people of Alice Springs, who flock to the causeways and the Telegraph Station to play in the fleeting waters. Although the riverbed is wide and of gentle gradient through the town the opaque waters combined with trees, waterborne and man-made hazards make playing in the flowing river dangerous.\n\nUpstream from Alice Springs the Todd River descends quite rapidly, dropping 100 metres from Junction Waterhole to the Telegraph Station over 8 km of River length (5 km direct). This is a hilly area, and the river bed is strewn with rocks creating some lively rapids during the short-lived flood events. Many locals are wary of these waters, remembering the death of a local man in 1997 who drowned whilst riding the river on a lilo. Local paddlers have recently taken to kayaking this section of grade 2 to 3 rapids.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1844743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844743", "title": "Strictly non-palindromic number", "text": "Strictly non-palindromic number\n\nA strictly non-palindromic number is an integer \"n\" that is not palindromic in any positional numeral system with a base \"b\" in the range 2 ≤ \"b\" ≤ \"n\" − 2. For example, the number 6 is written as \"110\" in base 2, \"20\" in base 3 and \"12\" in base 4, none of which is a palindrome—so 6 is strictly non-palindromic.\n\nFor another example, the number 19 written in base \"b\" (2 ≤ \"b\" ≤ 17) is:\nNone of these are a palindrome, so 19 is a strictly non-palindromic number.\n\nThe sequence of strictly non-palindromic numbers starts:\n\nTo test whether a number \"n\" is strictly non-palindromic, it must be verified that \"n\" is non-palindromic in all bases up to \"n\" − 2. The reasons for this upper limit are:\n\nFor example, 19 will be written (if \"b\" > 17) as:\n\nThus it can be seen that the upper limit of \"n\" − 2 is necessary to obtain a mathematically \"interesting\" definition.\n\nFor \"n\" < 4 the range of bases is empty, so these numbers are strictly non-palindromic in a trivial way.\n\nAll strictly non-palindromic numbers beyond 6 are prime. To see why composite \"n\" > 6 cannot be strictly non-palindromic, for each such \"n\" a base \"b\" can be shown to exist where \"n\" is palindromic.\nOtherwise \"n\" is odd. Write \"n\" = \"p\" · \"m\", where \"p\" is the smallest prime factor of \"n\". Then clearly \"p\" ≤ \"m\" (since \"n\" is composite).\nOtherwise \"p\" < \"m\" − 1. The case \"p\" = \"m\" − 1 cannot occur because both \"p\" and \"m\" are odd.\nThe reader can easily verify that in each case (1) the base \"b\" is in the range 2 ≤ \"b\" ≤ \"n\" − 2, and (2) the digits \"a\" of each palindrome are in the range 0 ≤ \"a\" < \"b\", given that \"n\" > 6. These conditions may fail if \"n\" ≤ 6, which explains why the non-prime numbers 1, 4 and 6 are strictly non-palindromic nevertheless.\n\nTherefore, all strictly non-palindromic \"n\" > 6 are prime.\n\n"}
{"id": "1844745", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844745", "title": "John Lennon discography", "text": "John Lennon discography\n\nJohn Lennon was an English singer-songwriter and one of the four principal members of the Beatles. His first three studio albums are experiments with Yoko Ono utilising tape loops, interviews, musique concrète, and other avant-garde performance techniques. Lennon also released one live album and three singles under his own name before the break-up of the Beatles. Studio album discography in Lennon's home idiom of rock and roll begins with \"Plastic Ono Band\" from 1970.\n\n\nFootnotes\nCitations\n"}
{"id": "1844757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844757", "title": "Seal hunting", "text": "Seal hunting\n\nSeal hunting, or sealing, is the personal or commercial hunting of seals. Seal hunting is currently practiced in ten countries: United States (above the Arctic Circle in Alaska), Canada, Namibia, Denmark (in self-governing Greenland only), Iceland, Norway, Russia, Finland and Sweden. Most of the world's seal hunting takes place in Canada and Greenland.\n\nThe Canadian Department of Fisheries and Oceans (DFO) regulates the seal hunt in Canada. It sets quotas (total allowable catch – TAC), monitors the hunt, studies the seal population, works with the Canadian Sealers' Association to train sealers on new regulations, and promotes sealing through its website and spokespeople. The DFO set harvest quotas of over 90,000 seals in 2007; 275,000 in 2008; 280,000 in 2009; and 330,000 in 2010. The actual kills in recent years have been less than the quotas: 82,800 in 2007; 217,800 in 2008; 72,400 in 2009; and 67,000 in 2010. In 2007, Norway claimed that 29,000 harp seals were killed, Russia claimed that 5,479 seals were killed and Greenland claimed that 90,000 seals were killed in their respective seal hunts.\n\nHarp seal populations in the northwest Atlantic declined to approximately 2 million in the late 1960s as a result of Canada's annual kill rates, which averaged to over 291,000 from 1952 to 1970. Conservationists demanded reduced rates of killing and stronger regulations to avert the extinction of the harp seal. In 1971, the Canadian government responded by instituting a quota system. The system was competitive, with each boat catching as many seals as it could before the hunt closed, which the Department of Fisheries and Oceans did when they knew that year's quota had been reached. Because it was thought that the competitive element might cause sealers to cut corners, new regulations were introduced that limited the catch to 400 seals per day, and 2000 per boat total. A 2007 population survey conducted by the DFO estimated the population at 5.5 million. \n\nIn Greenland, hunting is done with a firearm (rifle or shotgun) and young are fully protected. This has caused some conflicts with other seal-hunting nations, as Greenland also was hit by the boycotts that often were aimed at seals (often young) killed by clubbing or similar methods, which have not been in use in Greenland. It is illegal in Canada to hunt newborn harp seals (whitecoats) and young hooded seals (bluebacks). When the seal pups begin to molt their downy white fur at the age of 12–14 days, they are called \"ragged-jacket\" and can be commercially hunted. After molting, the seals are called \"beaters\", named for the way they beat the water with their flippers. The hunt remains highly controversial, attracting significant media coverage and protests each year. Images from past hunts have become iconic symbols for conservation, animal welfare, and animal rights advocates. In 2009, Russia banned the hunting of harp seals less than one year old.\n\nThe term seal is used to refer to a diverse group of animals. In science, they are grouped together in the Pinnipeds, which also includes the walrus, not popularly thought of as a seal, and not considered here. The two main families of seals are the Otariidae (the eared seals; includes sea lions, and fur seals), and Phocidae (the earless seals); animals in the family Phocidae are sometimes referred to as hair seals, and are much more adept in the water than the eared seals, though they have a more difficult time getting around on land. The fur seal yields a valuable fur; the hair seal has no fur, but oil can be obtained from its fat and leather from its hide.\nSeals have been used for their pelts, their flesh, and their fat, which was often used as lamp fuel, lubricants, cooking oil, a constituent of soap, the liquid base for red ochre paint, and for processing materials such as leather and jute.\n\nArcheological evidence indicates the Native Americans and First Nations People in Canada have been hunting seals for at least 4,000 years. Traditionally, when an Inuit boy killed his first seal or caribou, a feast was held. The meat was an important source of fat, protein, vitamin A, vitamin B and iron, and the pelts were prized for their warmth. The Inuit diet is rich in fish, whale, and seal.\n\nThere were approximately 150,000 circumpolar Inuit in 2005 in Greenland, Alaska, Russia, and Canada. According to Kirt Ejesiak, former secretary and chief of staff to then-Premier of Nunavut, Paul Okalik and the first Inuk from Nunavut to attend Harvard, for the c. 46,000 Canadian Inuit, the seal was not \"just a source of cash through fur sales, but the keystone of their culture. Although Inuit harvest and hunt many species that inhabit the desert tundra and ice platforms, the seal is their mainstay. The Inuktitut vocabulary designates specific objects made from seal bone, sinew, fat and fur used as tools, games, thread, cords, fuel, clothing, boats, and tents. There are also words referring to seasons, topography, place names, legends, and kinship relationships based on the seal. One region of Canada's north is inhabited by the \"Netsilingmiut\", or \"people of the seal.\" The title of Ejesiak's article acknowledged the pivotal 1991 publication entitled \"Animal Rights, Human Rights\" by George Wenzel, a McGill University geographer and anthropologist who worked more than two decades with the Clyde Inuit of Baffin Island. Wenzel's \"scholarly examination\" of \"the impact of the animal rights movement upon the culture and economy of the Canadian Inuit\" was among the first to reveal how animal rights groups, \"well-meaning people in the dominant society through misunderstanding and ignorance can inflict destruction\" on a vulnerable minority.\n\nInuit seal hunting accounts for the majority of the seal hunt, but just three percent of the hunt in southern Canada; it is excluded from the European Commission's call in 2006 for a ban on the import, export and sale of all harp and hooded seal products. Ringed seals were once the main staple for food, and have been used for clothing, boots, fuel for lamps, as delicacy, containers, igloo windows, and in harnesses for huskies. Though no longer used to this extent, ringed seals are still an important food and clothing source for the people of Nunavut. Called \"nayiq\" by the Central Alaskan Yup'ik people, the ringed seal is also hunted and eaten in Alaska.\n\nSeals were also hunted in northwest Europe and the Baltic Sea more than 10,000 years ago.\n\nThe first commercial hunting of seals by Europeans, is said to have occurred in 1515, when a cargo of fur seal skins from Uruguay was sent to Spain for sale in the markets of Seville.\n\nNewfoundland and Labrador and the Gulf of St. Lawrence were the first regions to experience large scale sealing. Migratory fishermen began the hunting from as early as the 1500s. Large-scale commercial seal hunting became an annual event starting in 1723 and expanded rapidly near the turn of the 18th century. Initially, the method used was to ensnare the migrating seals in nets anchored to shore installations, known as the 'landsman seal fishery'. The hunt was mainly for the procurement of seal meat as a form of sustenance for the settlements in the area, rather than for commercial gain.\n\nFrom the early 18th century English hunters began to range further afield - 1723 marked the first time that hunters armed with firearms ventured forth in boats to increase their haul. This soon became a sophisticated commercial operation; the seals were transported back to England, where the seal's meat, fur, and oil were sold separately. From 1749, the import of seal oil to England was being recorded annually, and was used as lighting oil, for cooking, in the manufacture of soap and for the treating of leather.\n\nIt was in the South Seas that sealing became a major enterprise from the late 18th century. Samuel Enderby, along with Alexander Champion and John St Barbe organized the first commercial expedition to the South Atlantic Ocean in 1776, initially with the primary aim of whaling, although sealing began to play a prominent part in the operation as well. More expeditions were sent in 1777 and 1778 before political and economic troubles hampered the trade for some time.\nOn 1 September 1788, the 270 ton ship \"Emilia\", owned by Samuel Enderby & Sons and commanded by Captain James Shields, departed London. The ship went west around Cape Horn into the Pacific Ocean to become the first ship of any nation to conduct operations in the Southern Ocean. \"Emilia\" returned to London on 12 March 1790 with a cargo of 139 tons of sperm oil.\n\nBy 1784, the British had fifteen ships in the southern fishery, all from London. By 1790 this port alone had sixty vessels employed in the trade. Between 1793 and 1799 there was an average of sixty vessels in the trade. The average increased to seventy-two in the years between 1800 and 1809.\n\nThe sealing industry extended further south to the South Georgia island, first mapped by Captain James Cook in on 17 January 1775. During the late 18th century and throughout the 19th century, South Georgia was inhabited by English and Yankee sealers, who used to live there for considerable periods of time and sometimes overwintered. In 1778, English sealers brought back from the Island of South Georgia and the Magellan Strait area as many as 40,000 seal skins and 2,800 tons of elephant seal oil. More fur seals from the island were taken in 1786 by the English sealing vessel \"Lord Hawkesbury\", and by 1791, 102 vessels, manned by 3000 sealers, were hunting seals south of the equator. The first commercial visit to the South Sandwich Islands was made in 1816 by another English ship, the \"Ann\".\n\nThe sealers pursued their trade in a most unsustainable manner, promptly reducing the fur seal population to near extermination. As a result, sealing activities on South Georgia had three marked peaks in 1786–1802, 1814–23, and 1869–1913 respectively, decreasing in between and gradually shifting to elephant seals taken for oil.\n\nCommercial sealing in Australasia appears to have started with the London-based Massachusetts-born Eber Bunker, master of the \"William and Ann\", who announced his intention in November 1791 to visit and hunt in New Zealand's Dusky Sound. Captain William Raven of the \"Britannia\" stationed a party at Dusky from 1792 to 1793, but the discovery in 1798-1799 of Bass Strait, between mainland Australia and Van Diemen's Land (later known as Tasmania) saw the sealers' focus shift there in 1798, when a gang including Daniel Cooper landed from the \"Nautilus\" on Cape Barren Island.\n\nWith Bass Strait over-exploited by 1802, commercial attention returned to southern New Zealand waters, where Stewart Island/Rakiura and Foveaux Strait were explored, exploited and charted from 1803 to 1804. Thereafter, the sealing-industry focus shifted to the sub-Antarctic Antipodes Islands, 1805–1807, the Auckland Islands from 1806, the southeast coast of New Zealand's South Island, Otago Harbour and Solander Island by 1809, before focusing further to the south at the newly discovered Campbell Island (discovered in January 1810) and Macquarie Island (discovered in July 1810) from 1810. During this period sealers were active on the southern coast of mainland Australia, for example at Kangaroo Island. This whole development has been called the first sealing boom; it sparked the Sealers' War (1810- ) in southern New Zealand.\n\nBy about 1815 sealing in the Pacific had faded in importance. A brief revival occurred from 1823, but this proved very short-lived. Although highly profitable at times and affording New South Wales one of its earliest trade staples, sealing's unregulated character saw its self-destruction. Notable traders from Britain and based in Australia included Simeon Lord, Henry Kable, James Underwood and Robert Campbell. Plummers of London and the Whitneys of New York also became involved.\n\nBy 1830 most Pacific seal stocks had been seriously depleted, and Lloyd's Register of Shipping only showed one full-time sealing vessel on its books. In the North Pacific, the later 1800s saw large harvests of fur seals. These harvests decreased along with fur-seal populations.\n\nGrowing from the international Grand Banks fishery, the Newfoundland hunt initially used small schooners. Kill rates averaged 451,000 in the 1830s, and rose to 546,000 annually during the first half of the next decade, which led to a marked decline in the harp seal population that in turn adversely impacted profits in the sealing industry.\n\nSealing reached its peak in Newfoundland in the 1860s, with the introduction of more powerful and reliable steamships that were capable of much larger range and storing capacity. Annual catches exceeded the 400,000 mark from the 1870s and smaller sealers were steadily pushed out of the market.\n\nThe first modern sealing ship was the SS \"Bear\", built in Dundee, Scotland in 1874 as a steamer for sealing. The ship was custom-built for sealing out of St. John's, Newfoundland, and was the most outstanding sealing vessel of her day and the lead ship in a new generation of sealers. Heavy-built with six inch (15.2 cm) thick wooden planks, \"Bear\" was rigged as a sailing barquentine but her main power was a steam engine designed to smash deep into ice packs to reach seal herds.\nAt the time of her arrival in St. John's, there were 300 vessels outfitted each season to hunt seals, but most were small schooners or old sailing barques. The new sealing ships represented by \"Bear\" radically transformed the Eastern North Atlantic seal fishery as they replaced the hundreds of smaller sealing vessels owned by merchants in outports around Newfoundland with large and expensive steamships owned by large British and Newfoundland companies based in St. John's. Owned at first by the Scottish firm W. Grieve and Sons, she was acquired in 1880 by R. Steele Junior.\n\nAnother famous sealing ship of the era was the \"Terra Nova\", originally built in 1884 for the Dundee whaling and sealing fleet. She was ideally suited to the polar regions and worked for 10 years in the annual seal fishery in the Labrador Sea. Large and expensive ships required major capital investments from British and Newfoundland firms, and shifted the industry from merchants in small outports to companies based in St. John's, Newfoundland. By the late 19th century, the sealing industry in Newfoundland was second in importance only to cod fishing.\n\nThe seal hunt provided critical winter wages for fishermen, but was dangerous work marked by sealing disasters that claimed hundreds of lives, such as the 1914 Newfoundland Sealing Disaster involving the SS \"Southern Cross\", the SS \"Newfoundland\", and SS \"Stephano\". The rugged hulls and experienced crews of Newfoundland sealing vessels often led sealers such as \"Bear\" and \"Terra Nova\" to be hired for arctic exploration and one sealer \"Algerine\" was hired to recover \"Titanic\" bodies in 1912. After World War II, the Newfoundland hunt was dominated by large Norwegian sealing vessels until the late 20th century, when the much diminished hunt shifted to smaller motor fishing vessels, based from outports around Newfoundland and Labrador. In 2007, the commercial seal hunt dividend contributed about $6 million to the Newfoundland GDP, a fraction of the industry's former importance.\n\nThe end of the 19th century was marked by the Bering Sea Controversy between the United States and Great Britain over the management of fur seal harvests. In 1867 the United States government purchased from Russia all her territorial rights in Alaska and the adjacent islands, including the Pribilof Islands, the principal breeding-grounds of the seals in those seas. By Acts of Congress, the killing of seals was strictly regulated on the Pribiloff islands and in \"the waters adjacent thereto\". Beginning in about 1886, it became the practice of certain British and Canadian vessels to intercept passing seals in the open ocean (over three miles from any shore) and shoot them in the water (pelagic sealing). In the summer of 1886, three British Columbian sealers, the \"Carolena\", \"Onward\", and \"Thornton\", were captured by an American revenue cutter, the \"Corwin\", The United States claimed exclusive jurisdiction over the sealing industry in the Bering Sea; it also contended that the protection of the fur seal was an international duty, and should be secured by international arrangement. The British imperial government repudiated the claim, but was willing to negotiate on the question of international regulation.\nThe issue was taken to arbitration, which concluded in favour of Britain on all points in 1893. Since the decision was in favor of Great Britain, in accordance with the arbitration treaty the tribunal prescribed a series of regulations for preserving the seal herds which were to be binding upon and enforced by both powers. They limited pelagic sealing as to time, place, and manner by fixing a zone of 60 miles around the Pribilof Islands within which the seals were not to be molested at any time, and from May 1 to July 31 each year they were not to be pursued anywhere in Bering Sea. Only licensed sailing vessels were permitted to engage in fur sealing, and the use of firearms or explosives was prohibited.\n\nThis marked the first attempt at establishing regulations on the sealing industry for environmental purposes. However, these regulations failed because the mother seals fed outside the protected area and remained vulnerable. A joint commission of scientists from Britain and the United States further considered the problem, and came to the conclusion that the pelagic sealing needed to be curtailed. However further joint tribunals did not enact new legal restrictions, and then Japan also embarked upon pelagic sealing.\n\nFinally, the North Pacific Fur Seal Convention severely curtailed the sealing industry. Signed on July 7, 1911 by the United States, Great Britain, Japan, and Russia, the treaty was designed to manage the commercial harvest of fur bearing mammals. It outlawed open-water seal hunting and acknowledged the United States' jurisdiction in managing the on-shore hunting of seals for commercial purposes. It was the first international treaty to address wildlife preservation issues.\n\nThe treaty was dissolved with the onset of hostilities between the signatories in World War II. However, the treaty set precedent for future national and international laws and treaties, including the Fur Seal Act of 1966 and the Marine Mammal Protection Act of 1972.\n\nToday, commercial sealing is conducted by only five nations: Canada, Greenland, Namibia, Norway, and Russia. The United States, which had been heavily involved in the sealing industry, now maintains a complete ban on the commercial hunting of marine mammals, with the exception of indigenous peoples who are allowed to hunt a small number of seals each year.\n\nIn the Canadian commercial seal hunt, the majority of the hunters initiate the kill using a firearm. Ninety percent of sealers on the ice floes of the Front (east of Newfoundland), where the majority of non-native seal hunting occurs, use firearms.\n\nAn older and more traditional method of killing seals is with a \"hakapik\": a heavy wooden club with a hammer head and metal hook on the end. The \"hakapik\" is used because of its efficiency; the animal can be killed quickly without damage to its pelt. The hammer head is used to crush the seals' thin skulls, while the hook is used to move the carcasses.\nCanadian sealing regulations describe the dimensions of the clubs and the \"hakapiks\", and caliber of the rifles and minimum bullet velocity, that can be used. They state: \"Every person who strikes a seal with a club or hakapik shall strike the seal on the forehead until its skull has been crushed,\" and that \"No person shall commence to skin or bleed a seal until the seal is dead,\" which occurs when it \"has a glassy-eyed, staring appearance and exhibits no blinking reflex when its eye is touched while it is in a relaxed condition.\"\nReportedly, in one study, three out of eight times, the animal was not rendered either dead or unconscious by shooting, and the hunters would then kill the seal using a hakapik or other club of a type that is sanctioned by the governing authority.\n\nSeal skins have been used by aboriginal people for millennia to make waterproof jackets and boots, and seal fur to make fur coats. Pelts account for over half the processed value of a seal, selling at over C$100 each as of 2006. According to Paul Christian Rieber, of GC Rieber AS, the difficult ice conditions and low quotas in 2006 resulted in less access to seal pelts, which caused the commodity price to be pushed up. One high-end fashion designer, Donatella Versace, has begun to use seal pelts, while others, such as Calvin Klein, Stella McCartney, Tommy Hilfiger, and Ralph Lauren, refrain from using any kind of fur.\n\nSeal meat is a source of food for residents of small coastal communities. Meat is sold to the Asian pet food market; in 2004, only Taiwan and South Korea purchased seal meat from Canada. The seal blubber is used to make seal oil, which is marketed as a fish oil supplement. In 2001, two percent of Canada's raw seal oil was processed and sold in Canadian health stores. There has been virtually no market for seal organs since 1998.\n\nIn 2005, three companies exported seal skin: Rieber in Norway, Atlantic Marine in Canada and Great Greenland in Greenland. Their clients were earlier French fashion houses and fur makers in Europe, but today the fur is mainly exported to Russia and China.\n\nIn Canada, the season for the commercial hunt of harp seal is from November 15 to May 15. While Inuit hunt seals commercially year-round, most sealing in southern Canada occurs in late March in the Gulf of St. Lawrence, and during the first or second week of April off Newfoundland, in an area known as the Front. This peak spring period is often mistakenly referred to as the \"Canadian Seal Hunt\", when in fact seal hunting also happens throughout the year all over the Canadian Arctic.\n\nIn 2003, the three-year harp seal quota granted by Fisheries and Oceans Canada was increased to a maximum of 975,000 animals per three years, with a maximum of 350,000 animals in any two consecutive years. In 2006, 325,000 harp seals, as well as 10,000 hooded seals and 10,400 grey seals were killed. An additional 10,000 animals were allocated for hunting by aboriginal peoples. As of 2012, the population in Canada of the Northwest Atlantic harp seals is approximately 7.3 million animals, over three times what it was in the 1970s.\n\nAlthough around 70% of Canadian seals killed are taken on the Front, private monitors focus on the St. Lawrence hunt, because of its more convenient location. The 2006 St. Lawrence leg of the hunt was officially closed on Apr. 3, 2006; sealers had already exceeded the quota by 1,000 animals. On March 26, 2007, the Newfoundland and Labrador government launched a seal hunt website to counter \"misinformation about the sealing industry that is [published] by international animal rights organizations\".\n\nWarm winters in the Gulf of Saint Lawrence have led to thinner and more unstable ice there. In 2007, Canada's federal fisheries ministry reported that while the pups are born on the ice as usual, the ice floes have started to break up before the pups learn to swim, causing the pups to drown. Canada reduced the 2007 quota by 20%, because overflights showed large numbers of seal pups were lost to thin and melting ice. In southern Labrador and off Newfoundland's northeast coast, however, there was extra heavy ice in 2007, and the coast guard estimated as many as 100 vessels were trapped in ice simultaneously.\n\nThe 2010 hunt was cut short because demand for seal pelts was down. Only one local pelt buyer, NuTan Furs, offered to purchase pelts; and it committed to purchase less than 15,000 pelts. Pelt prices were about C$21/pelt in 2010, which is about twice the 2009 price and about 64% of the 2007 price. The reduced demand is attributable mainly to the 2009 ban on imports of seal products into the European Union.\n\nThe 2010 winter was unusually warm, with little ice forming in the Gulf of St. Lawrence in February and March, when harp seals give birth to their pups on ice floes. Around the Gulf, harp seals arrived in late winter to give birth on near-shore ice and even on beaches rather than on their usual whelping grounds: sturdy sea ice. Also, seal pups born elsewhere began floating to shore on small, shrinking pieces of ice. Many others stayed too far north, out of reach of all but the most determined hunters. Environment Canada, the weather forecasting agency, reported the ice was at the lowest level on record.\n\nThe Fisheries Act established \"Seal Protection Regulations\" in the mid-1960s. The regulations were combined with other Canadian marine mammals regulations in 1993, to form the \"Marine Mammal Regulations\". In addition to describing the use of the rifle and \"hakapik\", the regulations state every person \"who fishes for seals for personal or commercial use shall land the pelt or the carcass of the seal.\" The commercial hunting of infant harp seals (whitecoats) and infant hooded seals (bluebacks) was banned in 1987 under pressure from animal rights groups. Now, seals may only be killed once they have started molting (from 12 to 15 days of age), as this coincides with the time when they are abandoned by their mothers.\n\nCanada's biggest market for seal pelts is Norway. Carino Limited is one of Newfoundland's largest seal pelt producers. Carino (CAnada–RIeber–NOrway) is marketing its seal pelts mainly through its parent company, GC Rieber Skinn, Bergen, Norway. Canada sold pelts to eleven countries in 2004. The next largest were Germany, Greenland, and China/Hong Kong. Other importers were Finland, Denmark, France, Greece, South Korea, and Russia. Asia remains the principal market for seal meat exports. One of Canada's market access priorities for 2002 was to \"continue to press Korean authorities to obtain the necessary approvals for the sale of seal meat for human consumption in Korea.\" Canadian and Korean officials agreed in 2003 on specific Korean import requirements for seal meat. For 2004, only Taiwan and South Korea purchased seal meat from Canada.\n\nCanadian seal product exports reached C$18 million in 2006. Of this, C$5.4 million went to the EU. In 2009, the European Union banned all seal imports, shrinking the market. Where pelts once sold for more than $100, they now fetch $8 to $15 each.\n\nSeals are abundant in Greenland with an estimated total population of 12 million, and about 82,000 harp seals, 78,000 ringed seals and a much lower number of hooded seals are killed each year (historically, a couple of other seal species were also hunted). The hunter has to have a hunting license and he/she is obliged to register all kills with the authorities. Young seals and mothers with young are fully protected.\n\nHunting is done with a rifle or shotgun, which by law has to be at least a .22 caliber or a 20-gauge, respectively. The most common and widespread method involves using a small boat to slowly approach a seal sitting on ice or swimming at the surface of the water, and shoot it from a distance, aiming for the head. Once shot and killed, the boat rushes up to the seal and hooks the carcass out of the water before it sinks. Another method is sometimes used in places where the sea is almost entirely covered by ice. The hunter slowly crawls forwards on the ice towards a seal, hiding behind a white screen. Once within shooting range, the seal is shot. Although the killed seal can be retrieved with the use of a snowmobile, it is illegal to use a motor vehicle (including snowmobile), plane or helicopter in the hunt itself.\n\nSeal hunting is very important to the local societies, especially small rural villages. In 2011, there were almost 8,000 hunters, including 2,100 full-time (the remaining are often fishers–hunters), out of a total work force of 32,000 people in Greenland. The meat is usually consumed locally and the skin is also used for local clothes (for example, Greenland's National Costume contains seal skin, including in the kamiks) or sold abroad. However, exports were hard hit by international campaigns against seal pelts, starting in 1980s (to some degree also later) and often focussing on seals being killed by clubbing or similar methods (especially young, but also adults), methods that were and are not in use in Greenland. As a consequence, Greenland attempted to distance itself from places where such methods were in use. For example, Greenland banned exports of seal skin from Canada for a period in 2006, specifically citing the way seals were killed. The European Union ban on seal skins has an exemption for those that originate from subsistence hunts by Inuit or other indigenous communities and using methods where animal welfare is considered (i.e., killed using humane methods), which has allowed Greenland to continue the trade. Nevertheless, the number of skins treated for commercial sale (both local and international) has fallen considerably in recent years and by 2017 was below 25,000.\n\nNamibia is the only country in the Southern Hemisphere culling seals. Although the protection and the sustainable use of natural resources is part of Namibia's constitution, it claims to conduct the second largest seal hunt in the world, mainly because of the huge amount of fish seals are estimated to consume. While a government-initiated study found seal colonies consume more fish than the entire fishing industry can catch, animal protection society Seal Alert South Africa estimated less than 0.3% losses to commercial fisheries.\n\nHunting is done from July to November on two places, Cape Cross and Atlas Bay, and in the past at Wolf Bay. These two colonies together account for 75% of the Cape fur seal population of the country.\n\nCape Cross is a tourism resort and the largest Cape fur seal colony in Namibia. The Department of Tourism has stated that \"Cape Cross Seal Reserve was established to protect the largest breeding colony of Cape fur seals in the world\". In season, the resort is closed and sealed off during the culling in the early morning hours, journalists are not allowed to enter. Namibia's SPCA is allowed to observe the culling from 2010 onwards.\n\nNamibia's Ministry of Fisheries announced a three-year rolling quota for the seal harvest, although different quotas per year are sometimes reported. The quota announced was in 2009, valid until 2011. The quotas are usually not filled by the concession holders.\n\nIn 2009, an unusual bid to end seal culling in Namibia was attempted when Seal Alert tried to raise money to purchase the only buyer of Namibian seals, Australian-based Hatem Yavuz, lock, stock, and barrel for US$14.2 million. The project did not materialise. Also, the Government of Namibia offered the International Fund for Animal Welfare (IFAW) an opportunity to buy out the two sealers in Namibia to finally end the culling. The offer was rejected.\n\nIn 2011, South African activists launched a boycott of Namibian tourism and Namibian products in response to the cull.\n\nThe Norwegian sealing season runs from January to September. The hunt involves \"seal catching\" by seagoing sealing boats on the Arctic ice shelf, and \"seal hunting\" on the coast and islands of mainland Norway. The latter is carried out by small groups of licensed hunters shooting seals from land and using small boats to retrieve the catch.\n\nIn 2005, Norway allowed foreign nationals to take part in the hunt. In 2006, 17,037 seals (including 13,390 harp and 3,647 hooded seals) were killed. In 2007, the Norwegian Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs stated up to 13.5 million Norwegian krone (about US$2.6 million) would be given in funding to vessels in the 2007 Norwegian seal hunt.\n\nAll Norwegian sealing vessels are required to carry a qualified veterinary inspector on board. Norwegian sealers are required to pass a shooting test each year before the season starts, using the same weapon and ammunition as they would on the ice. Likewise, they have to pass a \"hakapik\" test.\n\nAdult seals more than one year old must be shot in the head with expanding bullets, and cannot be clubbed to death. The \"hakapik\" shall be used to ensure the animal is dead. This is done by crushing the skull of the shot adult seal with the short end of the \"hakapik\", before the long spike is thrust deep into the animal's brain. The seal is then bled by making an incision from its jaw to the end of its sternum. The killing and bleeding must be done on the ice, and live animals may never be brought on board the ship. Young seals may be killed using just the \"hakapik\", but only in the aforementioned manner, i.e., they need not be shot.\n\nSeals in the water and seals with young may not be killed, and the use of traps, artificial lighting, airplanes, or helicopters is forbidden.\n\nThe \"hakapik\" may only be used by certified seal-catchers (fangstmenn) operating in the pack ice of the Arctic Ocean and not by coastal seal hunters. All coastal seal hunters must be pre-approved by the Norwegian Directorate of Fisheries and have to pass a large game hunting test.\n\nIn 2007, the European Food Safety Agency confirmed the animals are put to death faster and more humanely in the Norwegian sealing than in large game hunting on land.\n\nIn Norway in 2004, only Rieber worked with sealskin and seal oil. In 2001, the biggest producer of raw seal oil was Canada (two percent of the raw oil was processed and sold in Canadian health stores). Rieber had the majority of all distribution of raw seal oil in the world market, but there was no demand for seal oil. From 1995 to 2005, Rieber annually received between 2 and 3 million Norwegian krone in subsidy. A 2003–2004 parliamentary report says CG Rieber Skinn is the only company in the world that delivers skin from bluebacks. Most of the skins processed by Rieber have been imported from abroad, mainly from Canada. Only a small portion is from the Norwegian hunt. Of the processed skin, five percent is sold in Norway; the rest is exported to the Russian and Asian markets.\n\nFortuna Oils AS (established in 2004) is a 100% owned subsidiary of GC Rieber. They get the majority of their raw oil imported from Canada. They also have access to raw oil from the Norwegian hunt.\n\nThe Russian seal hunt has not been well monitored since the breakup of the Soviet Union. The quota in 1998 was 35,000 animals. Reportedly, many whitecoat pups are not properly killed and are transported, while injured, to processing areas. In January 2000, a bill to ban seal hunting was passed by the Russian parliament by 273 votes to 1, but was vetoed by President Vladimir Putin.\n\nOn 21 September 2007 in Arkhangelsk, the Norwegian GC Rieber Skinn AS proposed a joint Russian–Norwegian seal hunting project. The campaign was carried out from one hunt boat supplied by GS Rieber Skinn AS in 2007, lasted two weeks, and brought in 40 000 roubles per Russian hunter. GS Rieber skinn AS declared a plan to order 20 boats and donate them to the Pomor. CG Rieber Skinn AS, in 2007, established a daughter company in Arkhangelsk, called GC Rieber Skinn Pomor'e Lic. (GC Rieber Skinn Pomorje).\n\nThe Norwegian company Polardrift AS, in 2007, had plans to establish a company in Russia, and operate under Russian flag, in close cooperation with GC Rieber Skinn Pomor'e.\n\nPlans for the 2008 season included both helicopter-based hunts, mainly to take whitecoats, and boat-based hunts, mainly targeting beaters.\n\nOn 18 March 2009, Russia's Minister of Natural Resources and Ecology, Yuriy Trutnev, announced a complete ban on the hunting of harp seals younger than one year of age in the White Sea.\n\nCanada has become the center of the sealing debate because of the comparatively large size of its hunt.\n\nAccording to a 2002 peer-reviewed study done by five Canadian veterinarians and funded by the Canadian Veterinary Medical Association (CVMA), \"the large majority of seals taken during this hunt (at best, 98% in work reported here) are killed in an acceptably humane manner.\" These veterinarians found, \"During the 2001 season in the Gulf, three (1.9%) of 158 seals brought on board of the sealing vessels and directly observed by Daoust had not been killed, and in one (0.86%) of 116 interactions between seals and sealers observed on videotapes by Daoust and Crook, the seal also did not appear to have been killed before being hooked and brought on board.\" They thus concluded, \"This small proportion of animals that are not killed efficiently justifies continued attention to this industry's activities, preferably by members of the veterinary profession, who are best equipped to assess the humaneness of the killing methods.\"\n\nIn observing four videos taken during the 2001 seal hunt in the Gulf of St. Lawrence, the authors of this report state, \"A large proportion (87%) of the sealers recorded on the four videotapes failed to palpate the skull or check the corneal reflex before proceeding to hook or bleed the seal or go to another seal.\"\n\nThe Royal Commission on Seals and the Sealing Industry in Canada, also known as the Malouf Commission, concluded in a 1986 report, \"Judged by the criteria of rapidity of unconsciousness and particularly the absence of preslaughter stress, the clubbing of seal pups is, when properly performed, at least as humane as, and often more humane than, the killing methods used in commercial slaughterhouses, which are accepted by a majority of the public.\"\n\nAccording to the (DFO), \"The Marine Mammal Regulations stipulate that seals must be harvested quickly using only high-powered rifles, shotguns firing slugs, clubs or hakapiks.\n\nHowever, the International Fund for Animal Welfare conducted a study that disputed these findings. This report concludes the Canadian commercial seal hunt results in considerable and unacceptable suffering.\n\nThe veterinarians examined 76 seal carcasses and found that in 17% of the cases, there were no detectable lesions of the skull, leading them to conclude the clubbing likely did not result in loss of consciousness. In 25% of the remaining cases, the carcasses had minimal to moderate skull fractures, indicative of a \"decreased level of consciousness\", but probably not unconsciousness. The remaining 58% of the carcasses examined showed extensive skull fractures.\n\nThis veterinary study included examination of video footage of 179 seals hunted in 1998, 1999, and 2000. In these videos, 96 seals were shot, 56 were shot and then clubbed or gaffed, 19 were clubbed or gaffed, and 8 were killed by unknown means. In 79% of these cases, sealers did not check the corneal reflex to ensure that the seals were dead prior to hooking or skinning them. In only 6% of these cases, seals were bled immediately, where struck. The average time from initial strike to bleeding was 66 seconds.\n\nIn 2005, IFAW published a comparison of the CVMA-funded study and its own study. In this critique, David M. Lavigne, Science Advisor to IFAW, writes, \"The Burdon et al. evidence cited above addresses the question of whether seals were likely conscious or unconscious at the time they were skinned, using post-mortem examination of skulls. In marked contrast, the figure cited from Daoust et al.'s report represents the number of seals clubbed or shot that were brought on board sealing vessels while still conscious. That number ignores any and all animal suffering that occurs between the time animals are clubbed or shot until they eventually reach a sealing vessel, usually on the end of a hook or gaff.\" Another difference between these reports is \"Daoust et al.'s direct observations were made under very different conditions than those provided by Burdon et al. Unlike Burdon et al.'s observations, they were made directly from sealing vessels so that the sealers were unavoidably aware that observers were present. As Daoust et al. (p 692) admit, the presence of an observer on a sealing vessel \"may have incited sealers to hit the seals skulls more vigorously\". Of course, the presence of an observer also has the potential to modify other sealing practices, including checking for a corneal reflex and bleeding animals immediately after clubbing.\"\n\nIn 2005, the World Wildlife Fund (WWF) commissioned the Independent Veterinarians Working Group Report. With reference to video evidence, the report states: \"Perception of the seal hunt seems to be based largely on emotion, and on visual images that are often difficult even for experienced observers to interpret with certainty. While a hakapik strike on the skull of a seal appears brutal, it is humane if it achieves rapid, irreversible loss of consciousness leading to death.\"\n\nIn 2013, the Canadian Department of Fisheries and Oceans conducted a population survey. The resulting estimate of the harp seal population was 7.3 million animals, over three times what it was in the 1970s. In 2004, the population estimate was similar: 5.9 million (95% CI 4.6 million to 7.2 million).\n\nPrior to the arrival of European settlers, a much larger population of harp seals migrated to the waters off Newfoundland and Labrador. Settlers began exploiting the population, with kills peaking in the middle of the 1800s. In the first half of the 1840s, 546,000 seals were killed annually. This led to a population decline that adversely affected the industry.\n\nIn the 1950s and 1960s an average of over 291,000 seal pups were killed each year. This led to a population decline to less than 2 million seals. Conservationists became alarmed and demanded controls on kill rates. Thus in 1971, Canada instituted a quota system. In the years from 1971 to 1982, an average of 165,627 seals were killed.\n\nIn 1983, the European Union banned the import of whitecoat harp seal pup pelts (pelts from pups less than about two weeks of age, when the pups molt). As a result, the market for pelts dropped. The kill rates thus declined in subsequent years to an average of about 52,000 seals from 1983 to 1995. During this time, the harp seal population increased.\n\nAfter the European Union's ban on whitecoat pelt imports, the Canadian government and sealing industry developed markets for the pelts of beaters. In 1996, the kill rates again increased to over 200,000 each year, except in the year 2000. In 2002 and 2004 to 2006, over 300,000 seal pups were killed each year.\n\nAs a result of population concerns, Norway's seal hunt is now controlled by quotas based on recommendations from International Council for the Exploration of the Sea (ICES), However, sealing in Norway has declined in recent years, and the quotas have not been reached.\n\nIn addition to hunting pressures on the population of harp seals, as ice seals that are dependent on solid sea ice for whelping, the harp seal population is affected by global climate change. The lack of sea ice in recent years has resulted in the drowning deaths of tens of thousands of newborn harp seal pups.\n\nAnimal welfare advocates and organizations, such as PETA, object to the use of real fur when many synthetic \"faux fur\" alternatives are available.\n\nAccording to Canadian authorities, the value of the 2004 seal harvest was C$16.5 million, which significantly contributes to seal manufacturing companies, and for several thousand fishermen and First Nations peoples. For some sealers, they claim, proceeds from the hunt make up a third of their annual income. Critics, however, say this represents only a tiny fraction of the C$600-million Newfoundland fishing industry. Sealing opponents also say $16.5 million is insignificant, compared to the funding required to regulate and subsidize the hunt. For 1995 and 1996, there are confirmed reports Fisheries and Oceans Canada encouraged maximum utilization of harvested seals through a $0.20 per pound meat subsidy. The level of subsidy totaled $650,000 in 1997, $440,000 in 1998 and $250,000 in 1999. There were no meat subsidies in 2000. Some critics, such as the McCartneys (see below), have suggested promoting that area as an ecotourism site would be far more lucrative than the annual harvest.\n\nIn March 2005, Greenpeace asked the DFO to \"dispel the myth that seals are hampering the recovery of cod stocks.\" In doing so, they implied the seal hunt is, at least in part, a cull designed to increase cod stocks. Cod fishing has traditionally been a key part of the Atlantic fishery, and an important part of the economy of Newfoundland and Labrador. Fisheries and Oceans Canada responded there is no connection between the annual seal harvest and the cod fishery, and that the seal hunt is \"established on sound conservation principles.\"\n\nMany animal protection groups encourage people to petition against the harvest. Respect for Animals and Humane Society International believe the hunt will be ended only by the financial pressure of a boycott of Canadian seafood. In 2005, the Humane Society of the United States (HSUS) called for such a boycott in the United States.\n\nProtesters frequently use images of whitecoats, despite Canada's ban on the commercial hunting of suckling pups. The HSUS explains this by saying images of the legally hunted ragged jackets are nearly indistinguishable from those of whitecoats. Also, they state, according to official DFO kill reports, 97% percent of the estimated million harp seals killed in the last four years have been under three months old, and the majority of these are less than one month old.\n\nOn 26 March 2006, seven antisealing activists were arrested in the Gulf of St. Lawrence for violating the terms of their observer permits. By law, observers must maintain a ten-meter distance between themselves and the sealers. Five of the protesters were later acquitted. In the same month, as part of a counterprotest, Newfoundland and Labrador Premier Danny Williams encouraged people in the province to boycott Costco after the retailer decided to stop carrying seal oil capsules. Costco stated politics played no role in their decision to remove the capsules, and on April 4 that year, they were again being sold in Costco stores.\n\nIn 2009, the European Union passed a law banning the promotion of imported seal products. The law was approved by the Council of the European Union without debate on 27 July 2009. Denmark, Romania, and Austria abstained. The Canadian government responded to the move by stating that it will take the European Union to the World Trade Organization if the ban does not exempt Canada. Canadian Inuit from the territory of Nunavut have opposed the ban and lobbied European Parliament members against it. Canadian seal hunting issues had been spotlighted in the months leading up to the 2010 Winter Olympics which were held in Vancouver.\n\nAn important distinction between the southern Canadian seal hunt and the Inuit Canadian hunt is that Canadian Inuit typically hunt ringed seals, while the southern Canadian hunt targets the pelt of the harp seal. Greenlandic Inuit hunt and eat both ringed and harp seals. Protests surrounding the southern seal hunt in Canada have historically impacted Canadian and Greenlandic Inuit. Because of the impact of protest, profits surrounding the Inuit hunting of ringed seal fall with any ban on any type of seal product, regardless of exemption. For example, in 1963, prices for high-quality pelts of ringed seals could reach above $20.00 each; these same pelts in 1967, the year of the first major protests, would only sell for $2.50 each, which impacted Inuit in many areas. Protests in other years have resulted in similar decreases in price.\n\nNumerous celebrities have opposed the commercial seal hunt. Rex Murphy has reported celebrities have aided anti-hunt activists since the mid-20th century; Yvette Mimieux and Loretta Swit were recruited to attract the attention of international gossip magazines. Other celebrities who have aligned themselves against the hunt include Richard Dean Anderson, Kim Basinger, Juliette Binoche, Sir Paul McCartney, Heather Mills, Pamela Anderson, Martin Sheen, Pierce Brosnan, Morrissey, Paris Hilton, Robert Kennedy, Jr., Rutger Hauer, Brigitte Bardot, Ed Begley, Jr., Farley Mowat, Linda Blair, the Red Hot Chili Peppers, and Jackie Evancho.\n\nIn March 2006, Brigitte Bardot traveled to Ottawa to protest the hunt, though the prime minister turned down her request for a meeting. During the same month, Paul and Heather Mills McCartney toured the Gulf of Saint Lawrence's sealing grounds, and spoke out against the seal hunt, including as guests on Larry King Live, where the two debated with Danny Williams, the Premier of Newfoundland and Labrador.\n\nIn 1978, marine ecologist Jacques Cousteau criticized the seal hunt protest: \"The harp seal question is entirely emotional. We have to be logical. We have to aim our activity first to the endangered species. Those who are moved by the plight of the harp seal could also be moved by the plight of the pig – the way they are slaughtered is horrible.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1844760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844760", "title": "D'You Know What I Mean?", "text": "D'You Know What I Mean?\n\n\"D'You Know What I Mean?\" is a song by the English rock band Oasis. Written by Noel Gallagher, it was released on 7 July 1997 as the first single from their third album \"Be Here Now\" (1997).\n\nThe song reached number one on the UK Singles Chart, the third Oasis song to do so. The single also claimed the number-one position in Finland, Ireland and Spain, and it reached the top five in Italy, New Zealand, Norway and Sweden. In the United Kingdom, it sold 162,000 copies during its first day of release and 370,000 copies by the end of the week. It is Oasis's second biggest-selling single in the UK with sales of 745,000, achieving Platinum status in the process, and it was the 12th biggest-selling single of 1997 in the UK. In October 2011, \"NME\" placed it at number 77 on its list \"150 Best Tracks of the Past 15 Years\".\n\nAn edited, remixed and remastered version of the song was released on 14 October 2016 entitled \"D'You Know What I Mean? (NG's 2016 Rethink)\". The reissue formed part of the wider rerelease of the \"Be Here Now\" album to celebrate its 20th anniversary. This new version was intended to be part of a remix of the entire album, but Noel Gallagher reportedly lost interest in the project and stopped after the first track.\n\nOne of the B-sides, \"Stay Young\", has become a popular Oasis song, so much so that fans voted it onto the B-sides collection \"The Masterplan\" – one of only two B-sides from the \"Be Here Now\" period which made the album. The song was originally intended to be the \"Digsy's Dinner\" of \"Be Here Now\" (the lighthearted novelty track, such as \"Digsy's Dinner\" on \"Definitely Maybe\" and \"She's Electric\" on \"(What's the Story) Morning Glory?\"), until Noel set it aside in favour of \"Magic Pie\". Gallagher claims not to be particularly fond of the track. On 28 October 1998, \"Stay Young\" was released as a CD single in its own right by Epic Records Japan. One of the other B-sides is a cover of David Bowie's song, \"Heroes\".\n\nIn a 1997 interview promoting \"Be Here Now\", Noel Gallagher had the following to say about the first single: \"I was going to make up some profound statement in the chorus but I couldn't come up with anything that fitted. Then I just thought 'All my people right here, right now, d'you know what I mean? Yeah, yeah.' Very vague, very ambiguous, that'll do. Look in the mirror and wink while you're singing it and it's quite saucy. And I fucking love that line, 'Coming in a mess, going out in style'. We were a bunch of scruffs from Manchester and we're going out in a Rolls Royce.\" In another 1997 interview, this time on BBC, Noel Gallagher said: \"I can't believe I wrote it, it's going to blow people away.\"\n\n\"The morse code in the background was inspired by Strawberry Fields. We got hold of a code book and tried to tap out 'Bugger All' to follow that line 'Don't look back cos you know what you might see'. But if anyone can tell me what we really said, please let me know. Profound lagerisms...\"\n\nIn an interview with the BBC for their documentary \"Seven Ages of Rock\", Gallagher said of the song, \"Its eight and a half minutes, the first single, the drums haven't fuckin' come in for two minutes—its all feedback!\" He also said that he expected someone to ask them to edit the introduction to the song down, but such was their status in Britain, nobody did. They even performed the song on \"Top of the Pops\", omitting most of the lengthy introduction.\n\nThe lyrics reference two Beatles songs; \"The Fool on the Hill\", \"I Feel Fine\" as well as the Bob Dylan album \"Blood on the Tracks\" and the Dylan documentary \"Dont Look Back\". The line \"I ain't good looking but I'm someone's child\" is adapted from a line in Blind Willie McTell's \"Statesboro Blues.\" The song also uses an Amen break.\n\nThe single cover photograph, by Michael Spencer Jones and directed by Brian Cannon of Microdot, was taken in front of the 'Blind Steps', a staircase in Wigan so called because they run past the Blind Workshop, which can be seen to the left of the shot. The steps can still be found on Darlington Street. The shoot was shrouded in secrecy to protect mass media coverage, but newspaper \"The Wigan Evening Post\" got exclusive rights to cover the event and subsequently sold the photos to the \"Daily Mirror\". At a lunchtime break, Liam Gallagher and sleeve designer Brian Cannon enjoyed a pint of beer in the nearby Crispin Arms pub by Birkett Bank.\n\nThe music video, directed by Dom and Nic, is set in an apparently post-apocalyptic world and shows the band playing as a growing number of military helicopters fly overhead. Several of the helicopters land while a crowd gathers to watch the band play and throw coloured smoke grenades. At the end, the band members board one of the helicopters and fly away.\n\nThe video's setting is unclear. It was filmed on location at Beckton Gas Works in London, but the phrases \"Do you know what I mean?\" and \"Be here now\" can be seen painted in Czech on one of the surrounding buildings. Liam Gallagher wears a snorkel parka and sports a unique pair of tailor-made sunglasses.\n\nThe helicopters used were British Army Westland \"Lynx\" AH.7s. One is an AH.7(DAS) variant, notable for the distinctive ALQ-144 (disco ball) infra-red jammer under the tail. The other is a straight AH.7, albeit with a TOW antitank missile sight mounted over the left-hand front seat. Although only two helicopters were used, post-production techniques such as split screen editing, and clever camera angling produced the numerous helicopters seen in the video.\n\nThe band was later accused of hypocrisy for hiring the helicopters for the video. In 2002, the band forced the British Army to pull a recruiting video that used \"Morning Glory\" as background music, stating their vehement opposition to war and the military.\n\nCD \n\n7\" \n\n12\" \n\nCassette \n\nCD (NG's 2016 Rethink) \n\nOasis\n\nAdditional musicians\n\n"}
{"id": "1844766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844766", "title": "Władysław Dominik Zasławski", "text": "Władysław Dominik Zasławski\n\nPrince Wladysław Dominik Zasławski-Ostrogski (ca. 1616 – 1656) was a Polish nobleman (szlachcic) of Ruthenian stock. Prince of the Princely Houses of Poland, Ostroh Ordynat, Grand Koniuszy of The Crown.\n\nZasławski was the mightiest magnate in Volhynia at that time. He was voivode of Sandomierz Voivodeship from 1645 and voivode of Kraków Voivodeship from 1649. Starosta of Lutsk 1639–1653, regimentarz of the Crown 1648, second richest, after Stanisław Lubomirski, Polish magnate.\n\nThanks to chancellor Jerzy Ossoliński elected on Convocation Sejm as one of three regimentarz of the \"pospolite ruszenie\" during the Battle of Pyliavtsi in 1648. Because of his incompetence as a main \"regimentarz\" the battle were lost. In 1651 he participated in the Battle of Beresteczko. During the Swedish invasion (\"The Deluge\") was loyal to the king John Casimir Vasa, he prepared the defence of Przemyśl.\n\nSince the third decade of 17th century his barony was Stare Selo near Lviv. There he started to build fortress in 1642, which was destroyed during the siege of Lviv in 1648 by the Cossac uprisers of Bohdan Khmelnytsky. Castle was rebuilt in years 1649–1654, inside the fortress was built a palace. \n\nWładysław Dominik married Zofia Prudencja Ligęza h. Półkozic in 1634 and Katarzyna Sobieska h. Janina, daughter of Jakub Sobieski voivode of the Ruthenian Voivodeship and sister of King Jan III Sobieski, in 1650 and had two children:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1844767", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844767", "title": "Archaic Greece", "text": "Archaic Greece\n\nArchaic Greece was the period in Greek history lasting from the eighth century BC to the second Persian invasion of Greece in 480 BC, following the Greek Dark Ages and succeeded by the Classical period. In the archaic period, Greeks settled across the Mediterranean and the Black Seas, as far as Marseille in the west and Trapezus (Trebizond) in the east; and by the end of the archaic period, they were part of a trade network that spanned the entire Mediterranean.\n\nThe archaic period began with a massive increase in the Greek population and a series of significant changes that rendered the Greek world at the end of the 8th century entirely unrecognisable from its beginning. According to Anthony Snodgrass, the archaic period was bounded by two revolutions in the Greek world. It began with a \"structural revolution\" that \"drew the political map of the Greek world\" and established the \"poleis\", the distinctively Greek city-states, and it ended with the intellectual revolution of the Classical period.\n\nThe archaic period saw developments in Greek politics, economics, international relations, warfare and culture. It laid the groundwork for the Classical period, both politically and culturally. It was in the archaic period that the Greek alphabet developed, the earliest surviving Greek literature was composed, monumental sculpture and red-figure pottery began in Greece and the hoplite became the core of Greek armies.\n\nIn Athens, the earliest institutions of democracy were implemented under Solon, and the reforms of Cleisthenes at the end of the archaic period brought in Athenian democracy as it was during the Classical period. In Sparta, many of the institutions credited to the reforms of Lycurgus were introduced during the archaic period, the region of Messenia was brought under Spartan control, helotage was introduced and the Peloponnesian League was founded and made Sparta a dominant power in Greece.\n\nThe word \"archaic\" derives from the Greek word \"archaios\", which means \"old\" and refers to the period in ancient Greek history before the classical period. The archaic period is generally considered to have lasted from the beginning of the 8th century BC until the beginning of the 5th century BC, with the foundation of the Olympic Games in 776 BC and the Second Persian invasion of Greece in 480 BC forming notional starting and ending dates. The archaic period was long considered to have been less important and historically interesting than the classical period and was studied primarily as a precursor to it. More recently, however, archaic Greece has come to be studied for its own achievements. With this reassessment of the significance of the archaic period, some scholars have objected to the term \"archaic\" because of its connotations in English of being primitive and outdated. No term which has been suggested to replace it has gained widespread currency, however, and the term is still in use.\n\nMuch evidence about the Classical period of ancient Greece comes from written histories, such as Thucydides's \"History of the Peloponnesian War\". By contrast, no such evidence survives from the archaic period. Surviving contemporary written accounts of life in the period are in the form of poetry. Other written sources from the archaic period include epigraphical evidence, including parts of law codes, inscriptions on votive offerings and epigrams inscribed on tombs. However, none of that evidence is in the quantity for which it survives from the classical period. What is lacking in written evidence, however, is made up for in the rich archaeological evidence from the archaic Greek world. Indeed, although much knowledge of Classical Greek art comes from later Roman copies, all surviving archaic Greek art is original.\n\nOther sources for the archaic period are the traditions recorded by later Greek writers such as Herodotus. However, those traditions are not part of any form of history that would be recognised today. Those transmitted by Herodotus were recorded whether or not he believed them to be accurate. Indeed, Herodotus did not even record any dates before 480 BC.\n\nPolitically, the archaic period saw the development of the polis (or city-state) as the predominant unit of political organisation. Many cities throughout Greece came under the rule of autocratic leaders, called \"tyrants\". The period also saw the development of law and systems of communal decision-making, with the earliest evidence for law codes and constitutional structures dating to the period. By the end of the archaic period, both the Athenian and Spartan constitutions seem to have developed into their classical forms.\n\nThe archaic period saw significant urbanisation, and the development of the concept of the \"polis\" as it was used in Classical Greece. By Solon's time, if not before, the word \"polis\" had acquired its classical meaning, and though the emergence of the polis as a political community was still in progress at this point, the polis as an urban centre was a product of the eighth century. However, the polis did not become the dominant form of socio-political organisation throughout Greece in the archaic period, and in the north and west of the country it did not become dominant until some way into the Classical period.\n\nThe urbanisation process in archaic Greece known as \"synoecism\" – the amalgamation of several small settlements into a single urban centre – took place in much of Greece in the eighth century BC. Both Athens and Argos, for instance, began to coalesce into single settlements around the end of that century. In some settlements, this physical unification was marked by the construction of defensive city walls, as was the case in Smyrna by the middle of the eighth century BC, and Corinth by the middle of the seventh century BC.\n\nIt seems that the evolution of the polis as a socio-political structure, rather than a simply geographical one, can be attributed to this urbanisation, as well as a significant population increase in the eighth century. These two factors created a need for a new form of political organisation, as the political systems in place at the beginning of the archaic period quickly became unworkable.\n\nThough in the early part of the Classical period the city of Athens was both culturally and politically dominant, it was not until the late sixth century BC that it became a leading power in Greece.\n\nThe attempted coup by Cylon of Athens may be the earliest event in Athenian history which is clearly attested by ancient sources, dating to around 636 BCE. At this time, it seems that Athens' monarchy had already been ended and the archonship had replaced it as the most important executive office in the state, though the archonship could only be held by members of the Eupatridae, the families which made up Athens' aristocracy.\n\nThe earliest laws of Athens were established by Draco, in 621/0; his law on homicide was the only one to have survived to the Classical period. Draco's law code aimed to replace private revenge as the first and only response of an individual to an offence committed against them. The law code of Draco, however, failed to prevent the tensions between the rich and poor which were the impetus to Solon's reforms.\n\nIn 594/3 BC, Solon was appointed \"archon and mediator\". Exactly what his reforms consisted of is uncertain. He claimed to have taken up the \"horoi\" to set the land free, but the exact meaning of \"horoi\" is unknown; their removal seems, however, to have been part of the problem of \"hektemoroi\" – another word whose meaning is obscure. Solon was also credited with abolishing slavery for debtors, and establishing limits on who could be granted Athenian citizenship.\n\nSolon instituted radical constitutional reform, replacing noble birth as a qualification for office with income. The poorest – called thetes – could hold no offices, although they could attend the Assembly and the law courts, while the richest class – the pentacosiomedimni – were the only people eligible to become treasurer, and possibly archon. He set up the Council of the Four Hundred, responsible for discussing motions which were to come before the Assembly. Finally, Solon substantially reduced the powers of the archon by giving citizens the right of appeal; their case was judged by the Assembly.\n\nA second wave of constitutional reform in Athens was instituted by Cleisthenes towards the end of the sixth century. Cleisthenes apparently redivided the Athenian population, which had previously been grouped into four tribes, into ten new tribes. A new Council of 500 was instituted, with members from each deme represented. Demes were also given the power to determine their own members (which, in turn, provided them with influence over the membership of the citizen body more generally) and to somewhat determine their own judicial arrangements. These reforms gave the citizen body a sense of responsibility for what happened in the community for the first time. Between the reforms of Solon and Cleisthenes, the Athenian constitution had become identifiably democratic.\n\nSparta's constitution took on the form it would have in the Classical period during the eighth century BC. By the classical period, Spartan tradition attributed this constitution to Lycurgus of Sparta, which was dated by Thucydides to a little over four centuries before the end of the Peloponnesian War, or around the end of the ninth century. The First Messenian War, probably taking place from approximately 740 to 720 BC, saw the strengthening of the powers of the Gerousia against the assembly, and the enslavement of the Messenian population as Helots. Around the same time, the ephors gained the power to restrict the actions of the kings of Sparta. Thus by the late seventh century, Sparta's constitution had recognisably taken on its classical form.\n\nFrom around 560 BC, Sparta began to build a series of alliances with other Greek states, which became the Peloponnesian League: by 550, cities such as Elis, Corinth, and Megara would be part of the alliance. This series of alliances had the dual purpose of preventing the cities of the League from supporting the Helot population of Messenia, and of helping Sparta in its conflict with Argos, which in the archaic period was along with Sparta one of the major powers in the Peloponnese.\n\nIn the eighth and seventh centuries BC, Greeks began to spread across the Mediterranean, the Sea of Marmara, and the Black Sea. This was not simply for trade, but also to found settlements. These Greek colonies were not, as Roman colonies were, dependent on their mother-city, but were independent city-states in their own right.\n\nGreeks settled outside of Greece in two distinct ways. The first was in permanent settlements founded by Greeks, which formed as independent poleis. The second form was in what historians refer to as \"emporia\"; trading posts which were occupied by both Greeks and non-Greeks and which were primarily concerned with the manufacture and sale of goods. Examples of this latter type of settlement are found at Al Mina in the east and Pithekoussai in the west.\n\nThe earliest Greek colonies were on Sicily. Many of these were founded by people from Chalcis, but other Greek states, such as Corinth and Megara were also responsible for early colonies in the area. By the end of the eighth century BC, Greek settlements in southern Italy were also well established. In the seventh century, Greek colonists expanded the areas that they settled. In the west, colonies were founded as far afield as Marseilles. In the east, the north Aegean, the Sea of Marmara, and the Black Sea all saw colonies founded. The dominant coloniser in these parts was Miletus. At the same time, early colonies such as Syracuse and Megara Hyblaia began to themselves establish colonies.\n\nIn the west, Sicily and southern Italy were some of the largest recipients of Greek colonisers. Indeed, so many Greek settlements were founded in southern Italy that it was known in antiquity as Magna Graecia – \"Great Greece\". It has been observed that in the last quarter of the eighth century, new Greek settlements were founded in Sicily and southern Italy at an average rate of one every other year, and Greek colonists continued to found cities in Italy until the mid-fifth century BC.\n\nArchaic Greece from the mid-seventh century BC has sometimes been called an \"Age of Tyrants\". The word \"τύραννος\" (\"tyrannos\", whence the English \"tyrant\") first appeared in Greek literature in a poem of Archilochus, to describe the Lydian ruler Gyges. The earliest Greek tyrant was Cypselus, who seized power in Corinth in a coup in 655 BC. He was followed by a series of others in the mid-seventh century BC, such as Orthagoras in Sicyon and Theagenes in Megara.\n\nVarious explanations have been provided for the rise of tyranny in the seventh century BC. The most popular of these explanations dates back to Aristotle, who argued that tyrants were set up by the people in response to the nobility becoming less tolerable. As there is no evidence from the time that the nobility were becoming increasingly arrogant during the period, modern explanations of seventh century tyranny have tried to find other reasons for unrest among the people. Against this position, Drews argues that tyrannies were set up by individuals who controlled private armies, and that early tyrants did not need the support of the people at all, whilst Hammond suggests that tyrannies were established as a consequence of in-fighting between rival oligarchs, rather than between the oligarchs and the people.\n\nHowever, recently historians have begun to question the existence of a seventh century \"age of tyrants\". In the archaic period, the Greek word \"tyrannos\", according to Victor Parker, did not have the negative connotations it had gained by the time Aristotle wrote his \"Constitution of the Athenians\". When Archilochus used the word tyrant, it was synonymous with \"anax\" (an archaic Greek word meaning \"king\"). Parker dates the first use of the word \"tyrannos\" in a negative context to the first half of the sixth century, at least fifty years after Cypselus took power in Corinth. It was not until the time of Thucydides that \"tyrannos\" and \"basileus\" (\"king\") were consistently distinguished. Similarly, Greg Anderson has argued that archaic Greek tyrants were not considered illegitimate rulers, and cannot be distinguished from any other rulers of the same period.\n\nThe Greek population doubled during the eighth century, resulting in more and larger settlements than previously. The largest settlements, such as Athens and Knossos, might have had populations of 1,500 in 1000 BC; by 700 they might have held as many as 5,000 people. This was part of a wider phenomenon of population growth across the Mediterranean region at this time, which may have been caused by a climatic shift that took place between 850 and 750, which made the region cooler and wetter. This led to the expansion of population into uncultivated areas of Greece and was probably also a driver for colonisation abroad.\n\nAncient sources give us little information on mortality rates in archaic Greece, but it is likely that not many more than half of the population survived to the age of 18: perinatal and infant mortality are likely to have been very high. The population of archaic Greece would have consequently been very young – somewhere between 40% and two thirds of the population might have been under 18. By contrast, probably less than one in four people were over 40, and only one in 20 over the age of 60.\n\nEvidence from human remains shows that average age at death increased over the archaic period, but there is no clear trend for other measures of health. The size of houses gives some evidence for prosperity within society; in the eighth and seventh centuries, the average house size remained constant around 45–50 m, but the number of very large and very small houses increased, indicating increasing economic inequality. From the end of the seventh century, this trend reversed, with houses clustering closely around a growing average, and by the end of the archaic period the average house size had risen to about 125 m.\n\nNot all arable land in Greece was yet under cultivation in the archaic period. Farms appear to have been small, cohesive units, concentrated near settlements. They were highly diversified, growing a wide variety of crops simultaneously, in order to make consistent use of human resources throughout the year and to ensure that the failure of any one crop was not too much of a disaster. Crop rotation was practiced, with fields left fallow every other year. Though wheat was preferred, in some parts of Greece barley was the staple grain; where wheat was grown it was durum rather than bread wheat. Alongside these, farmers cultivated pulses, vines, olives, fruit, and vegetables. Olives and grapes, which could be turned into oil and wine respectively, served as cash crops; farmers who cultivated land near population centres could also sell soft fruits and leafy vegetables at market.\n\nLivestock were of secondary importance. Sheep and goats, in particular, were kept for meat, milk, wool, and fertiliser, but they were difficult to sustain and large herds were a sign of exceptional wealth. A team of oxen could increase agricultural output significantly, but were expensive to maintain. As they had in the Dark Ages, the wealthiest members of Greek society could own large herds of cattle.\n\nThis pattern had probably developed before the beginning of the period and remained relatively consistent throughout it. The idea that it was preceded by a period of pastoralism and that agriculture only became dominant in the course of the archaic period is not supported by the archaeological or literary evidence. No technological innovations in agriculture appear to have occurred, except possibly the increased use of iron tools and more intensive use of manure.\n\nThe main source for the practice of agriculture in the period is Hesiod's \"Works and Days\", which gives the impression of very small subsistence holdings in which the owner performed most of the labour personally; close reading reveals that much of the produce is to be sold for profit, much of the work to be performed by slaves (\"douloi\" or \"dmoes\"), and much of the owner's time to be spent away from the farm. Slaves' labour was supplemented by labourers who worked for a wage, as sharecroppers (called \"hektemoroi\" at Athens), or to pay off debts; this practice seems to have increased in the eighth century as the growth of the population increased the number of workers available, and intensified in the seventh century with the development of legally enforced debts and the status of the labourers increasingly becoming a source of social strife.\n\nBy the late eighth century BC, the archaic Greek world had become involved in an active trade network around the Aegean. It was this trade network which was the source of the orientalizing influence on Greek art in the early part of the archaic period. Meanwhile, to the west, trade between Corinth and Magna Graecia in Southern Italy and Sicily was booming.\n\nThe eastern trade mainly involved the Greek islands, with Aegina, for instance, acting as an intermediary between the east and the Greek mainland. East Greek states would go on to become extremely prosperous through the sixth century due to the trade with Asia and Egypt. Of the mainland cities, those on the coast were the biggest recipients of trade from the east, especially Corinth.\n\nIn the early part of the archaic period, Athens does not seem to have been particularly actively involved in this eastern trade, and very few examples of eastern imports have been found in Athens from the eighth or early seventh centuries. By contrast, nearby Euboea had trade-links with the east as early as the first half of the eighth century, and the earliest pottery from the Greek islands found at Al Mina in modern Syria is from Euboea.\n\nBy the sixth century, Greece was part of a trade network spanning the entire Mediterranean. Sixth century Laconian pottery has been found as far afield as Marseilles and Carthage to the west, Crete to the south and Sardis to the East.\nAt the beginning of the archaic period, coinage had not yet been invented. The Greeks measured the value of objects or fines using certain valuable objects, such as oxen, tripods, and metal spits, as units of account. As in the Near East, precious metal bullion was used as a medium of exchange, principally gold at first, but mainly silver by the beginning of the sixth century. The weight of this bullion (often known as hacksilber) was measured using standard units, named for their value in terms of metal spits (\"obeloi\") and handfuls (\"drachmai\") of metal spits; these terms would later be used as names for Greek coin denominations.\n\nCoinage was invented in Lydia around 650 BC. It was quickly adopted by Greek communities in western Asia Minor, although the older system of bullion remained in use as well. The island of Aegina began to issue its distinctive \"turtle\" coins before 550 BC, and from there coinage spread to Athens, Corinth and the Cycladic Islands in the 540s BC, Southern Italy and Sicily before 525 BC, and Thrace before 514 BC. Most of these coinages were very small and were mostly only used within the community that issued them, but the \"turtles\" of Aegina (from 530 or 520 BC) and the \"owls\" of Athens (from 515 BC) were issued in great quantity and exported throughout the Greek world.\n\nThe images on coins initially changed rapidly, but increasingly each community settled on a single image or set of images. Some of these were the symbol or image of an important deity in the city or visual puns on the city's name, but in many cases their meaning is obscure and may not have been chosen for any special reason.\n\nThe reasons for the rapid and widespread adoption of coinage by the Greeks are not entirely clear and several possibilities, which are not mutually exclusive, have been suggested. One possibility is the increased ease of commerce which coinage allowed. Coins were of standardised weights, which meant that their value could be determined without weighing them. Furthermore, it was not necessary for users of coinage to spend time determining whether the silver was pure silver; the fact that the coin had been issued by the community was a promise that it was worth a set value. Another possibility is that coinage was adopted specifically to enable communities to make payments to their citizens, mercenaries and artisans in a transparent, fair and efficient way. Similarly, when wealthy members of the community were required to contribute wealth to the community for festivals and the equipment of navies, coinage made the process more efficient and transparent. A third possibility, that coinage was adopted as an expression of a community's independence and identity, seems to be anachronistic.\n\nIn the visual arts, the archaic period is characterised by a shift towards representational and naturalistic styles. It was the period in which monumental sculpture was introduced to Greece, and in which Greek pottery styles went through great changes, from the repeating patterns of the late geometric period to the earliest red-figure vases. The early part of the archaic period saw distinctive orientalizing influences, both in pottery and in sculpture.\n\nLife-size human sculpture in hard stone began in Greece in the archaic period. This was inspired in part by ancient Egyptian stone sculpture: the proportions of the New York Kouros exactly correspond to Egyptian rules about the proportion of human figures. In Greece, these sculptures best survive as religious dedications and grave markers, but the same techniques would have also been used to make cult images.\n\nThe best-known types of archaic sculpture are the kouros and kore, near life-size frontal statues of a young man or woman, which were developed around the middle of the seventh century BC in the Cyclades. Probably the earliest kore produced was the Dedication of Nikandre, which was dedicated to Artemis at her temple on Delos between 660 and 650 BC, while kouroi began to be created shortly after this. Kouroi and korai were used to represent both humans and divinities. Some kouroi, such as the Colossus of the Naxians from around 600 BC, are known to represent Apollo, while the Phrasikleia Kore was meant to represent a young woman whose tomb it originally marked. Early in the seventh century around 650 BC when kore are widely introduced, Daedalic style made an appearance in Greek sculpture. This style consisted most noticeably of a geometric pattern of female subjects' hair framing their face. On male sculptures they were often posed with one foot in front, as if in motion.\n\nOver the course of the sixth century, kouroi from Attica become more lifelike and naturalistic. However, this trend does not appear elsewhere in the Greek world. The genre began to become less common over the last part of the sixth century as the elites who commissioned kouroi declined in influence, and by around 480 kouroi were no longer made.\n\nThe period saw a shift in the decoration of Greek pottery from abstract to figurative styles.\nDuring the Greek Dark Ages, following the fall of the Mycenaean civilisation, Greek pottery decoration had been based around increasingly elaborate geometrical patterns. Human figures first appeared on Greek pots in Crete in the early part of the ninth century BC, but did not become common on mainland Greek pottery until the middle of the eighth century BC.\n\nThe eighth century saw the development of the orientalizing style, which signalled a shift away from the earlier geometric style and the accumulation of influences derived from Phoenicia and Syria. This orientalizing influence seems to have come from goods imported to Greece from the Near East.\n\nAt the beginning of the seventh century BC, vase painters in Corinth began to develop the black-figure style. At the same time, potters began to use incisions in the clay of vases in order to draw outlines and interior detailing. This adoption of incision, probably taken from eastern metalwork, allowed potters to show fine details of their decorations.\n\nAs the archaic period drew to a close, red-figure pottery was invented in Athens, with the first examples being produced about 525 BC, probably by the Andokides painter. The invention of the red-figure technique in Athens came at around the same time as the development of other techniques such as the white ground technique and Six's technique.\n\nThe earliest extant Greek literature comes from the archaic period. Poetry was the predominant form of literature in the period. Alongside the dominant lyric and epic traditions, tragedy began to develop in the archaic period, borrowing elements from the pre-existing genres of archaic Greek poetry. By the sixth century BC the first written prose in Greek literature appeared.\n\nAfter the end of the Mycenaean period, the art of writing was lost in Greece: by the ninth century probably no Greeks understood the Bronze Age Linear B writing system. From the ninth century BC, however, objects inscribed with Phoenician writing began to be brought into the Greek world, and it was from this Phoenician script that the Greek alphabet developed in the eighth century BC. By the middle of the eighth century BC, pottery inscribed in Greek begins to occur in the archaeological record.\n\nThe earliest known inscriptions in Greek tend to identify or explain the object on which they are inscribed. Possibly the earliest known Greek inscription is found on a jug from the first half of the eighth century BC, discovered in Osteria dell'Osa in Latium. Most early inscriptions were written in verse, though some from Ionia were in prose, influenced by the prose traditions of Ionia's eastern neighbours. From the beginning of the seventh century, curses and dedications began to be inscribed on objects, and by the sixth century, surviving inscriptions include public records such as law codes, lists of officials, and records of treaties.\n\nGreek literature in the archaic period was predominantly poetry, though the earliest prose dates to the sixth century BC. archaic poetry was primarily intended to be performed rather than read, and can be broadly divided into three categories: lyric, rhapsodic, and citharodic. The performance of the poetry could either be private (most commonly in the symposium) or public.\n\nThough there would certainly have been a pre-existing literary tradition in Greece, the earliest surviving works are by Homer. Homer's poetry, though it dates to around the time that the Greeks developed writing, would have been composed orally – the earliest surviving poetry to have certainly been composed in writing is that of Archilochus, from the mid-seventh century BC. In contrast with the Classical period, in which the literary culture of Athens dominated the Greek world, the archaic poetic tradition was geographically spread out. Sappho and Alcaeus, for instance, were from Lesbos, while Pindar came from Thebes, and Alcman from Sparta.\n\nThe beginnings of Greek tragedy also have their roots in the archaic period, though the exact history is obscure. The competition in tragedy at the Great Dionysia began in the 530s BC. Aristotle believed that early tragedy developed from the dithyramb, a choral hymn to Dionysius; by ancient tradition the development from dithyramb to tragedy was ascribed to Thespis.\n\nEvidence from Linear B tablets shows that the gods worshipped in archaic and classical Greece shared names with those worshipped by their Mycenaean predecessors. However, the practice of religion changed significantly in the archaic period.\n\nThe most significant change of the eighth century was the development of permanent temples as a regular feature of sanctuary sites, where in the Dark Ages there had probably been no building specifically used for cult purposes. In the seventh century, this development of temples continued with the appearance of the first monumental stone temple buildings, beginning with the temple of Apollo at Corinth. These temples were probably built to house cult statues of the god. Except on Crete, where there may have been a continuous tradition of cult statues from the Mycenaean period, these cult images were a new development in Greek religion – there is no evidence that Greek Dark Age cult on the mainland used cult images.\n\nAlong with the introduction of temples came an increase in the number of dedications at cult sites. In the seventh century, the number of surviving dedications decreases again, but there is also a marked change in the character of dedications, from the figurines of animals common in the eighth century to human figurines. In the eighth century, some sanctuaries – for instance at Olympia – begin to attract dedications from outside the local area.\n\nThe sanctuary of Zeus at Olympia had been a cult site in the Dark Ages, with dedications there dating back to the tenth century BC, but the eighth century saw an explosion in the number of dedications: 160 animal figurines are known from the 9th century, compared to 1,461 from the 8th. Bronze tripods and jewellery have also been discovered as dedications at archaic Olympia. Though most of the dedications from the 8th century were manufactured in the Peloponnese, dedications also came from Attica, and even as far afield as Italy and the eastern Mediterranean.\n\nThis enormous explosion in cultic activity in Olympia apparently coincides with the establishment of the Olympic Games as a major event. According to Greek tradition the first games at Olympia had been established by Herakles, but these had fallen out of practice until they were revived in 776 BC.\n\nDelphi, on the slopes of Mount Parnassus, had been continuously occupied from the Bronze Age, but the first evidence of a sanctuary there dates to the eighth century BC, when dedicatory bronze tripods and votive figurines begin to appear in the archaeological record. In the last quarter of the eighth century, the number of offerings at Delphi significantly increased, and there is evidence that these offerings were beginning to come from across Greece. This pan-Hellenic interest in the sanctuary at Delphi was presumably driven by the development of the oracle there.\n\nThe archaic period saw the beginning of philosophical and scientific thinking in Greece, and the Greeks' interaction with other cultures from Italy, Egypt, and the Near East in this period had a significant impact on their thought. In the archaic period, the boundaries between disciplines had not yet developed, and so the thinkers who were later identified as philosophers also engaged in practical pursuits: Andrea Nightingale describes them as \"pragmatic and polymathic\". For instance, ancient traditions about Thales of Miletus, traditionally identified as the first philosopher, also show his skill in such diverse fields as astronomy, engineering, politics, agriculture, and commerce.\n\nIn the archaic period, the most significant military development was the adoption of hoplite warfare by the Greek states. This occurred in the early part of the seventh century BC. The panoply, or hoplite's armour, began to appear in the eighth century, and the earliest known example comes from Argos in the late eighth century.\n\nWhile the pieces which made up the panoply were all in use in Greece by the end of the eighth century, our first evidence for it being worn as a complete set of armour does not come until around 675 BC, where it is depicted on a Corinthian vase painting. The adoption of the phalanx tactics which would be used by hoplites in the Classical period does not appear to have taken place until the mid-seventh century; before this point, the older style of combat in which spears were thrown at the enemy before closing quarters was still used.\n\nIn the naval sphere, the archaic period saw the development of the trireme in Greece. In the eighth century, Greek navies began to use ships with two banks of oars, and the three banked trireme seems to have become popular in the seventh century. Corinth was probably the first place in the Greek world to adopt the trireme in the mid seventh century BC. It was not until the mid-sixth century, however, that the trireme became the most popular design for Greek battleships, due to its expense. According to Thucydides, the period saw the first Greek naval battles; he dates the first to around 664 BC.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1844768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844768", "title": "Lophopyxis", "text": "Lophopyxis\n\nLophopyxis is a genus of flowering plants and the sole genus of the family Lophopyxidaceae. The group consists of 2 species of tendrillate lianas. They are found in the Sunda Islands.\n"}
{"id": "1844771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844771", "title": "After the Fire", "text": "After the Fire\n\nAfter the Fire (or ATF) were a British rock band that transitioned from playing progressive rock to new wave over their initial ten-year career, while having only one hit in the United States (\"Der Kommissar\") and one hit in the United Kingdom (\"One Rule for You\").\n\nKeyboard player Peter Banks originally formed the band in 1972 in London, England. After the Fire then went through several personnel changes before settling on Banks, guitarist and vocalist Andy Piercy, bassist Nick Battle, and drummer Ivor Twydell. This line-up enjoyed local success in London, and released an album, \"Signs of Change\", in 1978, on their own label. Having become a highly priced collectors' item, it was reissued on CD in 2004 with several bonus tracks. At this time, the band's sound was similar to that of bands like Genesis and Yes.\n\nThe band were explicit about their Christian faith - 'Signs of Change' is based on 'Pilgrim's Progress'.\n\nAfter Battle left, Piercy switched to bass, and John Russell joined on guitar. The group signed to CBS, and released their second album, \"Laser Love\", in 1979, which marked the band's move towards new wave, with shorter, more catchy pop rock tracks. Twydell left the band to seek a career as a frontman and Nick Brotherwood took over briefly, after the album \"Laser Love\" was recorded. Banks changed his name to \"Memory\" Banks to not be confused with the ex-Yes guitarist, around this time. As these changes took place, After the Fire's single, \"One Rule for You\", entered the UK Singles Chart.\n\nThe first version of \"80-f\", although better musically, was turned down by CBS resulting in the early departure of Brotherwood. The band, now with Pete King (formerly of the Flys) on drums, were assigned a new producer who re-worked some of the original album tracks and re-visited tracks that had been left off \"Laser Love\". Neither single charted in the UK but \"1980-f\" gained popularity, like the band, in Europe.\n\n\"Batteries Not Included\" was released in 1982 without fanfare, and the singles received little UK airplay. They came back into the UK spotlight when their English-language cover of Austrian musician Falco's song, \"Der Kommissar\", rocketed into the US top 10 in 1983, though it only just made the top 50 in the United Kingdom. This was followed by the release of their first and only US album, \"ATF\", a compilation of their UK albums.\n\nThis success had come too late, and growing musical differences eventually caused the band to split in 1982. Piercy was looking to leave during the recording sessions that led to the single \"Der Kommissar.\" Although \"Der Kommissar\", which had already become a hit in Canada, finally took hold in the American charts, CBS tried to get the band back together without success. All rights to the band name were signed over by Banks to Piercy and CBS.\n\nPiercy immediately went back into the studios to rerecord \"One Rule\" and \"Dancing in the Shadows\", the latter being released as a single and charting in the US with some success. Piercy started work on a new album called \"Free Heat\", (an anagram of After The Fire, with the missing letters creating the word \"rift\"). The album was recorded across the UK in various studios including The Manor and The Town House. The only single from the sessions was \"8 Ball in the Top Pocket\" (b-side \"Deep Waters Still Run\"), released on 7-inch and 12\". The 12\" version, which also contained \"One Down for the Highway\", was deleted before release. Musicians who worked on the album with Piercy and Mal Pope included Roger Taylor (Queen), Heny Spinetti & Bob Jenkins - drums, John Giblin & Andy - bass, Alan Murphy & John Russell - guitar, Adrian Lee - keys. Mal and John Russell both did some backing vocals. The album consisted of the following tracks: \"8 Ball in the Top Pocket\", \"Young Love\", \"Terry\", \"Stop Go\", \"4th Street Room 101\", \"Jewel in the Night\", \"We Gotta Get Out of This Place\", \"Young and Wild\", \"One Down for the Highway\", and \"Deep Waters Still Run\". CBS had planned to make it the company's first release on CD. Work on the album had begun to get hard, the demos were not turning into the tracks Piercy wished for. Then towards the end of recording, the producer, John Eden, told Piercy that he \"didn't like\" any of the styles, bands or writers he was aspiring to. The whole project was dropped by CBS and was never released. Piercy recalls \"I think they could have been good but I now realize I didn't get the production help and direction I needed at the time.\"\n\nBanks went on to build his own studio before becoming managing director of Maldon Computer Company, a software and networking enterprise. Russell worked in a music shop following the split and later was involved in youth work, while Piercy became a record producer. King, who joined the German rock band BAP in 1986, died of testicular cancer in 1987. Twidell (as Iva Twydell) released two solo albums after leaving the band (\"Secret Service\" and \"Duel\", released in 1981 and 1982 respectively), and then became a police officer. Battle became a songwriter/producer/A&R man, working with (amongst others) Godley and Creme and Anthony Phillips, has had songs recorded by Cliff Richard and holds partial responsibility for \"The Birdie Song\" and The Spice Girls.\n\nIn 2004 at the Friends Reunion organised by a fan, Banks and Russell were joined by Ian Niblo on bass and Matt Russell (John's teenage son) on drums to perform a karaoke set. Banks was later talked into the capacity reunion gig at the Greenbelt Festival, with Keith Smith completing the line-up on lead vocals.\n\nIn 2005, they re-worked and released the song \"One Rule\" for Trade Justice, a new recording of their 1979 UK hit. They released the second track from the current line up, \"Forged from Faith\", as a digital download in October 2005.\n\nIn January 2007, Smith's departure from the group was announced. The vocals at their first gig in Harrow after Smith's departure were handled by Pete Banks and Russell and gave the band an \"authentic\" vocal style. Before Smith's departure, there had been plans to re-enter the recording studio. A band biography, in union with a Christian publishing house, with the working title of \"Short Change\", by a band associate was shelved in 2007. In May 2008, the band announced the arrival of Tim Turner as drummer, fresh from Titian Red. For their autumn 2008 tour, the band teamed up with singer–songwriter Rob Halligan, who not only fronted the band (lead vocals and guitar), but also played some of his own material during the sets. The band continued to perform, with an annual mini tour. However there appeared to be no activity post 2013 as of 2019.\n\nTimeline\n"}
{"id": "1844773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844773", "title": "Federal Social Court", "text": "Federal Social Court\n\nThe Federal Social Court (\"Bundessozialgericht\") is the German federal court of appeals for social security cases, mainly cases concerning the public health insurance, long-term care insurance, pension insurance and occupational accident insurance schemes. Trial courts for these cases are the \"Sozialgerichte\" (Social Courts). Appeals against decisions of these courts are heard by the \"Landessozialgerichte\" (Superior State Social Courts), before the cases may wind up at the \"Bundessozialgericht\".\n\nThe \"Bundessozialgericht\" is located in the city of Kassel.\n\n"}
{"id": "1844774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844774", "title": "George Harrison discography", "text": "George Harrison discography\n\nThe discography of English singer-songwriter and ex-Beatle George Harrison consists of 12 studio albums, two live albums, four compilation albums, 35 singles, two video albums and four box sets (one of which is with Indian classical musician Ravi Shankar). Harrison's first solo releases – the \"Wonderwall Music\" film soundtrack (1968) and \"Electronic Sound\" (1969) – were almost entirely instrumental works, issued during the last two years of the Beatles' career. Following the band's break-up in April 1970, Harrison continued to produce recordings by his fellow Apple Records acts, notably former bandmate Ringo Starr. He recorded and collaborated with a wide range of artists, including Shankar, Bob Dylan, Eric Clapton and Gary Wright.\n\nHarrison's acclaimed triple album \"All Things Must Pass\" (1970) was certified six-times platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) in March 2001 and, as of 2011, was still the most successful album by an ex-Beatle. \"All Things Must Pass\" produced the international number 1 hit \"My Sweet Lord\", which was coupled as a double A-side with \"Isn't It a Pity\" in the majority of countries. In 1971 Harrison recorded pop music's first charity single, \"Bangla Desh\", and released the \"Concert for Bangladesh\" triple live album (credited to George Harrison & Friends) to raise further funds for refugees of the Bangladesh Liberation War. His 1973 album \"Living in the Material World\" and the single \"Give Me Love (Give Me Peace on Earth)\" repeated the US success of his 1970 solo releases by simultaneously holding the number 1 position on \"Billboard\"'s albums and singles charts. The remainder of his 1970s studio albums, starting with \"Dark Horse\" (1974), were all certified gold by the RIAA but performed disappointingly on the UK albums chart. Following the expiration of his EMI-affiliated Apple contract, \"Thirty Three & 1/3\" (1976) was Harrison's debut release on his Dark Horse label, distributed worldwide by Warner Bros. Records.\n\nThe 1981 single \"All Those Years Ago\", from \"Somewhere in England\", was written as a tribute to the recently murdered John Lennon and became Harrison's biggest chart hit since \"Give Me Love\". Having clashed with Warner Bros. over the content of that album, Harrison refused to participate in promotion for \"Gone Troppo\" (1982), resulting in lacklustre sales. From 1983 until 1986, Harrison released only film soundtrack singles, reflecting his involvement in movie production. \"Cloud Nine\" (1987) and its lead single \"Got My Mind Set on You\" marked a commercial comeback for Harrison. He then formed the Traveling Wilburys with Dylan, Jeff Lynne, Tom Petty and Roy Orbison, and the band released two successful studio albums between 1988 and 1990 on his Warner Bros. contract. Following his tour that resulted in the 1992 \"Live in Japan\" album, Harrison again stepped back from full-time musical activity. After being diagnosed with cancer in 1997, he recorded his twelfth and final studio album, the posthumously released \"Brainwashed\" (2002). Harrison oversaw the reissue of \"All Things Must Pass\" in January 2001, and 2014 saw the completion of his remastered catalogue with the release of \"The Apple Years 1968–75\".\n\nThe following is a list of songs by Harrison that were released as promotional singles in the United States, showing their peak positions on \"Billboard\"s Adult Contemporary and Mainstream Rock listings, where applicable.\n\n"}
{"id": "1844775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844775", "title": "Jequitinhonha River", "text": "Jequitinhonha River\n\nThe Jequitinhonha River () flows mainly through the Brazilian state of Minas Gerais. Its source lies near Diamantina in the Espinhaço Mountains at an elevation of , after which it flows northward and then east-northeastward across the uplands. At Salto da Divisa, it is interrupted by the Cachoeira (falls) do Salto Grande, high. The river descends to the coastal plain at the city of Jequitinhonha, beyond which it is also called Rio Grande do Belmonte, and empties into the Atlantic Ocean at Belmonte in Bahia state after a course of approximately . The main tributaries are the Araçuaí River, Piauí, São Miguel, Itacambiruçu, Salinas, São Pedro, and São Francisco.\n\nThe valley of the Jequitinhonha is one of the poorest regions of Brazil and is still prone to endemic yellow fever. It covers , twice the size of Switzerland, and has an approximate population of one million people, distributed in about 80 municipalities. The most populous of these is Almenara (36,254 in 2004) located on the middle Jequitinhonha.\n\nThe valley is known for its variety of gemstones, colonial-era towns, unique handicrafts and starkly beautiful landscapes immortalized by the Brazilian author João Guimarães Rosa.\n\nMost of the soil is arid and is periodically affected by drought or floods. The economically active population numbers over 400,000, of which 180,000 are in the rural areas practicing rudimentary agriculture and cattle raising. Industry employs 50,000 people and is the most important economic source for the municipalities.\n\nIn the past the region was covered by forests and occupied by indigenous people. What contributed to the deforestation and subsequent degradation of the region was the predatory activity of mining and extraction of diamonds.\n\nToday there are attempts to develop the work of local artisans, especially in ceramics. While living in total isolation, they have developed ceramic craftwork that is mainly performed by the women, who belong to associations. They make utilitarian pieces that are ranked as the most creative works of Brazilian popular art. The famous \"dolls\" from that region are in fact pitchers for holding fresh water, thus losing this function and becoming decorative objects.\n\nThe electrical company of Minas Gerais (CEMIG) constructed a hydroelectric plant on the river between Berilo and Grão Mogol. The \"Usina Presidente Juscelino Kubitscheck\", the hydroelectric plant powered by Irapé Dam, has an installed capacity of 360 MW and regulates the waters of the river which periodically flood. CEMIG began the work in 2002 and in April 2003 diverted the river to two tunnels with a length of more than 1.2 km (three-quarters of a mile). The dam and power station were completed in 2006.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1844786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844786", "title": "The Crawlers (short story)", "text": "The Crawlers (short story)\n\n\"The Crawlers\" is a science fiction short story by American writer Philip K. Dick. Submitted under the title \"Foundling Home\", it was first published as \"The Crawlers\" in \"Imagination \"magazine, July 1954.\n\nThe story starts out from the point of view of a crawler constructing one of its curious hives. The crawler seems sentient and to genuinely enjoy building its odd dwelling.\n\nThe story is set in a small Midwestern town, with references later in the story to mysterious \"pools\" which seem to cause mutations. Certain families in the area have begun to give birth to abnormal children – \"crawlers\" – with long, soft, pale, elongated bodies. They have poisonous stings (one crawler stung a dog, who promptly turned black and hard, and died soon after) and pulpy exteriors, and seem to emit a kind of glue that allows them to build. The crawlers seem to love building, and a colony of survivors, crawlers who were not killed by disgusted parents, have set up a hive not far from the town. A government official proposes a plan to move the crawlers to an island, where they can be alone, unpersecuted and with the ability to build as much as they like.\n\nThe story ends the same way it started; from the point of view of a crawler. The crawler mentions how happy the colony is, and that building is progressing quickly. He comments on how the crawlers will soon reach the mainland, and then work will begin in earnest. The story ends, however, on an uncertain note – some of the crawlers have had children, and those children are not crawlers, but \"throwbacks\" – us.\n"}
{"id": "1844787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844787", "title": "Federal Labour Court", "text": "Federal Labour Court\n\nThe Federal Labour Court (\"Bundesarbeitsgericht\") is the court of the last resort for cases of labour law in Germany, both for individual labour law (mostly concerning contracts of employment) and collective labour law (e.g. cases concerning strikes and collective bargaining). The court hears cases from the \"Landesarbeitsgerichte\" (Superior State Labour Courts), which, in turn, are the courts of appeals against decisions of the \"Arbeitsgerichte\" (Inferior State Labour Courts).\n\nThe \"Bundesarbeitsgericht\" is located in the city of Erfurt.\n"}
{"id": "1844788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844788", "title": "Luigi Barzini Sr.", "text": "Luigi Barzini Sr.\n\nLuigi Barzini Sr. (February 7, 1874 – September 6, 1947) was an Italian journalist and war correspondent.\n\nBorn at Orvieto, Barzini started his career as a journalist in 1898, working for minor Italian magazines and was almost immediately noticed and hired by Luigi Albertini, then director of the \"Corriere della Sera\", the most prestigious Italian newspaper. In 1900, he was sent as war correspondent to Qing Dynasty China, where he witnessed and reported about the Boxer Rebellion, distinguishing himself for his ability to get first hand information. During the Russo-Japanese War of 1904–1905, he was embedded within the Imperial Japanese Army, and covered its campaigns in Manchuria.\nAs a journalist of the \"Corriere della Sera\", in 1907 he accompanied Prince Scipione Borghese in the famous Peking to Paris motor race, winning it after a journey of two months in an Itala car across China and Siberia, traveling amongst regions and people that had never seen a car before. Of this adventure, he left a wonderful memoir, filled with hundreds of photographs, in his book \"Peking to Paris\", that was published in 1908 in eleven different languages: a \"publishing raid\", as his proud Italian editor noted in the preface of the book.\n\nDuring World War I, Barzini was the official correspondent with the Italian Army; an account of his experiences was published in \"The War Illustrated\". In 1921, Barzini left the \"Corriere della Sera\" and moved to the United States, where he directed the Italian-American newspaper \"Corriere d'America \"from 1923 until his return to Italy in 1931. In 1932 he became director of the \"Il Mattino\", but in 1933 lost his position when Mussolini mistakenly thought him to be the author of a critical article appeared in the French press. The misunderstanding was soon cleared but Barzini had no further chances to direct a newspaper. After the nomination as senator, he continued to work as a correspondent for the Fascist newspaper \"Il Popolo d'Italia\", covering the Spanish Civil War and the Russian Invasion.\n\nBarzini had pro-Fascist sentiments since before Mussolini's rise to power. He signed his name on the \"Manifesto of the Fascist Intellectuals\" in 1925, and was made a senator in 1934, serving on the Commission of the Armed Forces (April 17, 1939 – February 11, 1941), the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Trade and Customs legislation (December 31, 1941 – February 12, 1943 and June 16 to August 5, 1943), Affairs Committee of Italian Africa (April 15, 1942 – June 16, 1943) and the Board of Finance (February 12 to June 16, 1943). He continued to collaborate with Mussolini in the Italian Social Republic, where he directed the official press agency Agenzia Stefani. In 1945, he was convicted for his involvement in the Fascist regime and forbidden to practice the profession of journalist.\n\nBarzini died destitute in Milan in 1947. His son Luigi Barzini, Jr. was also a journalist and writer. His other son Ettore, after joining the Italian resistance movement, was arrested in 1943 and deported to a concentration camp in Germany where he died in 1945, despite his father's efforts to save his life.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1844791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844791", "title": "Júcar", "text": "Júcar\n\nThe Júcar () or Xúquer () is a river on the Iberian Peninsula of Spain. The river runs for approximately 509 km from its source at Ojuelos de Valdeminguete, on the eastern flank of the Montes Universales, Sistema Ibérico. Its most important tributary is the Cabriel.\n\nRiver Júcar flows first southward and then eastward through the towns of Cuenca, Alcalá del Júcar, Cofrentes, Alzira, Sueca and Cullera, a town located near its mouth into the Gulf of Valencia, Mediterranean Sea. It crosses the provinces of Cuenca, Albacete and Valencia\n\nIn 1982 the river Júcar broke the Tous's reservoir, causing the biggest flood in Spanish history with a flow speed of 16,000 cubic metres per second, killing more than 30 people. This flood was the most important one in the whole history of Spain in that times because the people thought that the Tous reservoir was indestructible. The flood was called \"La pantanada de Tous\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1844793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844793", "title": "Hodgson's hawk-cuckoo", "text": "Hodgson's hawk-cuckoo\n\nHodgson's hawk-cuckoo (\"Hierococcyx nisicolor\"), also known as the whistling hawk-cuckoo is a species of cuckoo found in north-eastern India, Myanmar, southern China and southeast Asia.\n\nHodgson's hawk-cuckoo is a brood parasite. The chick evicts bona fide residents of the parasitized nest, thus becoming the sole occupant. Under normal circumstances, this would reduce the provisioning rate as the foster parents see only one gape. To counteract this, the Hodgson's hawk-cuckoo displays gape-coloured patches of skin under its wing to simulate additional gapes; the strategy appears to increase the provisioning rate. This is in contrast to other species of cuckoo (such as the common cuckoo) which increase the rapidity of high pitched hunger calls to increase the provisioning rate.\n\nAlthough the skin patch is not gape shaped, it is convincing: host parents occasionally place food into the patch.\n\nHodgson's hawk-cuckoo was formerly regarded as having four subspecies. The Philippine hawk-cuckoo is now commonly treated as a separate species, \"H. pectoralis\". The remaining forms are also now split into three species: Malaysian hawk-cuckoo (\"H. fugax\"), Hodgson's hawk-cuckoo (\"H. nisicolor\") and rufous hawk-cuckoo or northern hawk-cuckoo (\"H. hyperythrus\").\n\nThe common name commemorates the British naturalist Brian Houghton Hodgson.\n"}
{"id": "1844797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844797", "title": "Devekut", "text": "Devekut\n\nDevekut, debekuth, deveikuth or deveikus (Heb. דבקות; Mod. Heb. \"dedication\", traditionally \"clinging on\" to God) is a Jewish concept referring to closeness to God. It may refer to a deep, trance-like meditative state attained during Jewish prayer, Torah study, or when performing the 613 mitzvot (the \"commandments\"). It is particularly associated with the Jewish mystical tradition.\n\nדבק, or \"deveq\", the modern Hebrew word for glue, literally means 'to cling'. It is sometimes referred to as \"devequt\", \"dvequt\" or \"devequs\". The concept of Devequt is important in Jewish culture, particularly in Hasidism and in the history of Jewish thought, mysticism, and ethics.\n\nIn modern Israeli Hebrew, \"Devequt\" or \"dvequt\" is also often a synonym for dedication toward a particular goal.\n\nIn religious Judaism and in academia, \"Dvequt\" refers most commonly to the philosophical, mystical and Hasidic understanding of \"Devequt\" as \"cleaving\" or \"attaching oneself\" to God in all areas of life.\n\nIn Kabbalah, close circles of elite scholars would seek elevated mystical states of devekut, often through ascetic practices.\n\nThe path in devekut of historical Kabbalah, both in its first Medieval dissemination, and in its 16th century Renaissance, was dependent on many conditions. Kabbalistic thought was limited to more advanced scholars. This was both a historical tradition, and an inherent characteristic. The form of historical Kabbalah embodied in its texts required extensive understanding of mainstream Rabbinic texts, in order to correctly understand its subtle metaphors, and to avoid their anthropomorphism. This danger was subsequently born out in the heretical misinterpretations of Kabbalah by the Sabbateans and their successors. With advanced understanding, dveikut was allied with ascetic practices.\n\nWith its emphasis on Divine Omnipresence, Hasidic philosophy sought to unify all aspects of spiritual and material life, to reveal their inner Divinity. Dveikut was therefore achieved not through ascetic practices that \"broke\" the material, but by sublimating materialism into Divine worship. Nonetheless, privately, many Hasidic Rebbes engaged in ascetic practices, in Hasidic thought for mystical reasons of bringing merit to the generation, rather than formerly as methods of personal elevation. The Baal Shem Tov taught of the superior advantage in Jewish service, of incorporating materialism within spirituality. In Hasidic thought, this was possible because of the essential Divine inspiration within Hasidic expression. In its terminology, it takes a higher Divine source to unify lower expressions of the material and the spiritual. In relation to the Omnipresent Divine essence, the transcendent emanations described in historical Kabbalah are external. This corresponds to the Kabbalistic difference between the Or (Light) and the Maor (Luminary). Essential Divinity permeates all equally, from the common folk to the scholars.\n\nTraditional Jewish philosophical, ethical and mystical thought describes the two fundamental emotions in spiritual devotion, of \"love of God\" and \"fear/awe of God\". Hasidic thought gives these standard notions its own interpretations. The founder of Hasidism, the Baal Shem Tov, opposed the ethical practices of admonishment (see Maggid), that could interpret fear of God as fear of punishment. In Hasidism such fear is seen as superficial, egotistical and misrepresentative of the Divine love for Creation. Hasidism sought to replace Jewish observance based on self-awareness with an overriding perception and joy of the omnipresent Divine (see Divine immanence). It likewise reinterpreted the traditional Jewish notion of humility. To the Hasidic Masters, humility did not mean thinking little of oneself, a commendable quality that derives from an external origin in Jewish spirituality, but rather losing all sense of ego entirely (\"bittul\"-the negation of ego). This inner psychological spirituality could only be achieved by beginning from the inside, through understanding and awareness of Divinity in Hasidic philosophy. The Hasidic leaders say that \"to dispel darkness (spiritual impurity and obstacles), one does not fight it\", the method of Mussar, as such success has the drawback of immersing oneself in the problems. Rather, \"one turns on the light\", as \"a little bit of light gets rid of a lot of darkness\". The light represents the illumination in the psyche of Hasidic thought.\n\nThe great Masters of Mussar would counter that such a path has the danger of escapism, as understanding oneself is the basis of mature consciousness. In some Hasidic schools, this pitfall of mystical escapism is avoided. In Habad Hasidism, for example, Jewish meditation differed from \"General Hasidism\" in seeking intellectual understanding and inward contemplation over more external forms of emotional enthusiasm.\n\nAcross all Hasidism the continual mystical joy and \"bittul\"-humility \"between man and God\", is ideally reflected likewise in self-sacrifice to help another person \"between man and man\". In Jewish law, self-sacrifice is called \"mesiras nefesh\", and involves the occasional situations when one forfeits life. In daily terminology in Hasidism, mesiras nefesh means instead devoted sacrifice for God or another person. It is indicative of this that the two Hasidic schools most focused on daily learning of Hasidic thought, Habad (Lubavitch) and Breslav, have also become the two schools involved in the Baal Teshuva movement. In Habad, the talented young men and women devote themselves to going on Shlichus (outreach), rather than the traditional and commendable devotion to Torah study and personal spiritual advancement. In Habad thought, such material and spiritual help for another person achieves its own manifold spiritual illumination and refinement of one's personality. Just as some traditional forms of Jewish thought gave emphasis to fear of punishment as a helpful contribution to beginning Jewish observance, before progressing to more mature levels, so too do some Jewish approaches advocate motivation from eternal reward in the Hereafter, or the more refined ideal of seeking spiritual and scholarly self-advancement through Torah study. Study of Torah is seen by Rabbinic Judaism as the pre-eminent spiritual activity, as it leads to all other mitzvot (Jewish observances). To seek personal spiritual advancement through learning is a commendable ideal of Rabbinic Judaism.\n\nHasidism, ideally, rejected the focus on spiritual reward, or ultimately also the ideal of spiritual self-advancement, as too self-centred. Before the magnificent awareness of Divine majesty, through the mystical path, the automatic response is sincerity and a desire to nullify oneself in the Divine presence. The Habad Shaliach, for example, who moves to a remote place to offer Jewish life there, generally absorbs the notion that it is worthwhile to reject even refined levels of self-centred spiritual advancement, from advanced Yeshiva study, to help another person in their spiritual and physical needs. This attitude has also spread in recent times to non-Hasidic Lithuanian Jewish Orthodoxy, as part of the spiritual campaign of the Baal Teshuvah movement.\n\nTraditionally, part of the early opposition of the Talmudic focused Mitnagdim, centred in Lithuania, was their fear that Hasidism demoted the traditional importance on Torah study, from its pre-eminent status in Jewish life. Some Hasidic interpretations saw mystical prayer as the highest activity, but their practitioners thought that through this, all their Jewish study and worship would become more spiritualised. By the mid-19th Century, the schism between the two interpretations of Eastern European Judaism had mostly healed, as Hasidism revealed its dedication to Talmudic scholarship, and the Lithuanian World saw advantages in ethical focus.\n\nHasidic anecdotes illustrate its mystical idea of rejecting notions of reward and punishment in favour of \"bittul\" (nullification) of the ego and devoted self-sacrifice. In one account:\n\nThe first leader of Habad Schneur Zalman of Liadi kept in his desk some of his unpublished Hasidic mystical writings. A fire broke out that destroyed them. Afterwards, he asked if anyone had secretly copied them. His close associates replied that no one had, since he had written atop their pages the warning of \"a mystical cutting off of one's soul in the next World for anyone who copies these manuscripts\". It seems that Schneur Zalman felt that he had not been given permission to distribute these teachings from Heaven. In response to their answer, he replied \"what has become of Hasidic self-sacrifice for the sake of Heaven?\"!\n\nThe \"love of God\" and \"fear of God\" receive different interpretations across the historic texts of Judaism, from their different appellations in the Song of Songs, through the Talmud, Medieval Jewish Philosophers, Musar literature and the Kabbalah. To Maimonides, for example, based on the synthesis of Jewish revelation with Greek philosophy, love and fear were to be awakened by contemplating the wonders of Creation, which could reveal the presence of their Creator. Hasidism adopts the Kabbalistic interpretations of the different forms of love, and the mystical interpretations of fear as awe before the Divine majesty. Basing itself on the Kabbalistic explanations of the terminology in the Song of Songs, the classic Hasidic manual for serving God, the Tanya by Schneur Zalman of Liadi, describes many types of mystical love and awe. The methods of Jewish meditation advocated here are particular to the Chabad school of thought, but this text is revered across general Hasidism, as being a systematically structured guide to daily Hasidic life. In all Hasidism, as in Kabbalah, love and awe are awakened by study of mystical texts, in Hasidism of Hasidic philosophy, and in the varying ways of the different schools within Hasidism of applying this in daily Jewish life. Based on Kabbalah, it differentiates between lower and higher forms of love, awe and nullification of the ego.\n\nThe soulful advantage of Hasidism over Kabbalah is expressed in its ability to be expressed without recourse to the esoteric terms of Kabbalah. This is brought out most in the charismatic spiritual stories told about the beloved Masters of Hasidism, as well as in the mystical parables they told to illustrate ideas. One such parable differentiates between superficial forms of love of God and spiritual reward, with true forms of selfless love:\nA powerful King was grateful to two simple poor people for their devotion, and decided to show his gratitude. The poor labourers had never been into the palace before, but had only seen the King at state occasions. After receiving their invitations to see the King, in trepidation and excitement, they approached the palace. As they entered, they were amazed to behold the magnificence of the palace. One servant was so enamoured of these riches, that he stopped in the great halls to delight in their beauty. He never progressed beyond these chambers. Meanwhile, the other servant was wiser, and his desire was only for the King. The beautiful ornaments did not distract him, as he entered the inner chamber, where he delighted in beholding the King himself.\nLikewise a story is told of how in moments of mystical rapture, Schneur Zalman of Liadi would be seen rolling on the floor, exclaiming \"God, I don't want your Garden of Eden (Heavenly World), I don't want your World-to-Come (Messianic days), I just want You!\".\n\nThe teachers of Hasidism point out that fear of God is different from natural forms of worldly fear, which are uncomfortable experiences, and when experienced, at the time remove other emotions. The awe and trepidation felt when perceiving the mystical greatness of God carries its own delight and \"bittul\"-nullification, and can be felt together with longing and delight of mystical love.\n\nFor one who has studied the texts of Hasidism, and has responded to their \"Wellsprings\", they can then carry this mystical perspective into daily life. Especially opportune, in traditional Hasidic life, was seeking times of solitude amongst Nature. In Breslov Hasidism, the simple prayers of one's heart in such a setting (Hitbodedut) becomes of central importance. Rabbi Nachman of Breslav poetically depicts the spiritual lifeforce in the grasses of the field as joining and helping in one's prayers. Psychologically too, the aesthetic beauty of Nature becomes elevated by seeing the Divine transcendence reflected in it. To a sensitised soul, a tree can take on the extra dimension of a mystical beauty, that unites the Divine immanence of God with the transcendence. Divine transcendence and immanence are traditional notions in Jewish thought. The Panentheism of the Baal Shem Tov gave new emphasis on the theology and perception of the immanent Divine in all things. This carried earlier Kabbalistic notions, that saw Nature as a manifestation of God, to their theological conclusions. (The Kabbalists explain that one of the Hebrew names of God \"Elo-h-im\", representing Divine immanence, is numerically equivalent in Gematria with \"HaTeva\" meaning \"Nature\"). In the second section of the Tanya, Schneur Zalman of Liadi articulated the philosophical explanations of this. Similarly, the Baal Shem Tov gave a new interpretation of Divine Providence, that described how the movement of a leaf in the wind is significant in the Divine plan. A tale of the Baal Shem Tov also depicts the relationship between consciousness of the Divine immanence in Nature, infused with the higher light of Divine transcendence:\n\nOnce, when the Baal Shem Tov was on a journey, Sabbath overtook him on the highway. He stopped the wagon, and went out into the field to perform the services that welcome the coming of Sabbath, and to remain there until the Sabbath was ended. On the field, a flock of sheep were grazing. When the Baal Shem Tov raised his voice and spoke the prayers that welcome the Sabbath as the coming of a Bride, the sheep rose upon their hind legs, and lifted their heads in the air, and stood like people listening. And so they remained in wrapt attention for two hours, all the while that the Baal Shem spoke.\n\nIn the tale, the sheep become aware in their instinctive feelings of the existence of a Divine transcendent reality. According to the tale, the Baal shem Tov's prayers could be holy enough for even instinctive creatures to perceive this.\n\nThe early Hasidic movement around the Baal Shem Tov developed from elite esoteric mystical circles of pneumatics, sometimes connected in practical fellowship. True Deveikut in early Hasidism reflected the superior nature of elevated mystical conduct, beyond the attainment of the regular community, though reaching out to encourage the common folk through popular mystical teaching. With the development of Hasidism as a large scale social movement through the disciples of Dovber of Mezeritch, the doctrine of Mainstream Hasidic \"Popular Tzadikism\" developed, especially by Elimelech of Lizhensk. In this, while true deveikut was unattainable by the common folk through their own efforts, the substitution of attachment, sometimes called \"Deveikut\", to the Tzadik enabled everyone to perceive and experience Divinity. This was the first time that Jewish mysticism, embodied in the elite esoteric deveikut of the Tzadik, was combined with practical, popular social doctrine and movement. Tzadikism, and its parallel worship of God through materiality, became the most distinctive feature of Hasidic Judaism, distinguishing Hasidism from other forms of traditional Judaism. The Tzadik embodied Divinity, through Hasidism's adaption of the Kabbalistic notion of Yesod-Foundation, becoming the channel of Divine spiritual and physical blessing to his followers. The Russian Chabad school of Shneur Zalman of Liadi and his successors became the exception from Mainstream Hasidism, in seeking to communicate the elite esoteric dimension of deveikut as widely as possible, through its approach of intellectual investigation of Hasidic thought. In this, as in the different Polish Peshischa-Kotzk school that stressed personal autonomy, the main role of the Tzadik was as teacher in Habad, or mentor in Peshischa. The most extreme form of Mainstream Tzadikism, sometimes opposed by other Hasidic leaders, was embodied in \"Wonder-working\" Rebbes, for whom Divine channelling of blessing through theurgic practice became central, at the expense of Torah teaching. Hasidism developed the customs of Tish (gathering), Kvitel (request) and Yechidut (private audience) in the conduct of the Tzadik.\n\n\"Teshuvah\", often translated into English as \"Repentance\", literally means \"Return\" to God in Judaism. Halachic codes identify its defining stages in personal spiritual repentance and atonement from sin. Musar literature generally see its role in broader self-understanding, spiritual growth, and personal fidelity. Hasidic thought, based upon Kabbalistic exegesis, gives it a mystical ascending structure. It interprets two levels of return, \"Lower Teshuvah\" (Lower Return to God), and \"Higher Teshuvah\" (Higher Return). In Hasidic philosophy, Teshuvah does not only involve repentance and rectification of previous spiritual faults. Rather, as the Baal Shem Tov taught, even perfectly righteous Tzadikim need to return to God, in the higher Teshuvah of continual ascent in holiness. With new revelations of mystical Divinity, come new awareness of \"Bittul\" (self-nullification) and desire for God in Deveikut. According to Kabbalistic exegesis of the Hebrew word \"Teshuvah\" (תשובה), it can be read as \"Returning the letter hei\" (תשוב-ה). The Tetragrammaton essential Divine name has two letters \"hei\", the second one corresponding to the lower revealed levels of the Four Worlds in Kabbalah, and the first one corresponding to the higher concealed realms. Spiritual lapses by man only reach the lower realms. Lower teshuvah returns the second hei in rectification, higher teshuvah redeems the higher hei in holy ascent.\n\nThe service of the Hasidic Rebbe Tzadik is continual ascent in dveikut of love, awe and faith of God. This is called the service of \"Eschapchah\" (\"Transformation\" of darkness to light). The regular folk who rise and fall spiritually, engage more in the service of \"Iskafiah\" (\"Subjugation\" of impurity). With its characteristic articulation of Divine Omnipresence in everything, Hasidism emphasises the superior quality of both services. Stories are told of Hasidic Rebbes who envied the battle with impurity of the common folk. When a person falls spiritually, and is in need of \"Lower Teshuvah\", then Hasidic thought gives encouragement in their new reality. Talmudic theology describes its own two types of Teshuvah, \"Teshuvah from Fear\" of God, which erases sin, and \"Teshuvah from Love\" of God, which transforms sin into merit. In the path of Hasidic rectification of sin, through mystical dveikut the sin can be transformed (Eschapchah) into full inner merit. Once the Hasidic follower perceives their inner exile from God that sin caused, through mystical study they become awakened to an even stronger desire for God than the Tzadik can reach. This is compared to the thirst of a person in a dry desert without water. With devoted dveikut they can become a fully transformed person, and the route to their superior Divine level was through the sin itself. Accordingly, the Baal Shem Tov interpreted the Hebrew word for sin (חטא-\"Cheit\") as possessing a silent letter Aleph at the end. This represents, he said, the concealed spark of holiness within the sin itself, that is revealed in Teshuvah.\nKabbalah describes this process as \"every spiritual descent is only in order to reach an even higher subsequent ascent\". In Hasidic Omnipresence, the Baal Shem Tov taught a new view of individual Divine Providence. In this every detail is a concealed part of the Divine plan. Each individual is destined to personally redeem their personal sparks of holiness. In Hasidism, therefore, the spiritual failure is itself the concealed inner beginning of the ultimate ascent.\n\nIn Hasidic lore, the path of Nachman of Breslov is especially related to giving redemption and encouragement to those people who are caught up in personal difficulties and spiritual impurity. Through his creative articulation of Hasidic mysticism, his teachings can awaken a desire for deveikut, the path of personal hitbodedut expression of one's problems, and a mystical Tikkun HaKlali rectification for all. His main work \"Lkkutei Moharan\" is colloquially referred to as the Hasidic book to help those in spiritual difficulties (\"wickedness\"). The \"Tanya\" of Schneur Zalman of Liadi is subtitled the \"Hasidic book for the intermediate person\" who has ease to intellectually meditate on Hasidic philosophy to reach inner Teshuvah. The work \"Noam Elimelech\" by Elimelech of Lizhensk instructs the \"Hasidic book for the righteous\", and the Mainstream Hasidic path of Teshuvah through cleaving to the Tzadik.\n\nThe Baal Shem Tov taught the spiritual value of simple Jewish folk. This was at a time after the 17th century Khmelnytsky Uprising had devastated Jewish communities in the Ukraine, and a gap had evolved between the centres of Talmudic scholarship and the unlettered masses. With the traditional preeminence in Rabbinic Judaism on Torah study, it was perceived that the unlettered masses, though not at fault, were spiritually inferior. Maggidim toured Jewish communities offering admonishment of further punishment as a means of encouraging Jewish observance among the disenfranchised masses. In this arena, the Baal Shem Tov's mysticism taught that the sincere common folk could be closer to God than a scholar who has self-pride in his accomplishments. He conveyed his revolutionary ideas in parables, stories and terse teachings among the market places of the populace. The legendary tales about him, later copied in \"Shivchei HaBesht\" and other hagiographic compilations describe how much he cherished the sincere prayers of the simple, artless folk. In perhaps the most characteristic Hasidic story, the Baal Shem Tov's conduct instructed his new mystical teaching and boundless delight in the unlettered deveikut of the simple folk:\n\nThe saintly prayers of the Baal Shem Tov and his close circle were unable to lift a harsh Heavenly decree they perceived one Rosh Hashanah (New Year). After extending the prayers beyond their time, the danger remained. An unlettered shepherd boy entered and was deeply envious of those who could read the holy day's prayers. He said to God \"I don't know how to pray, but I can make the noises of the animals of the field. \"With great feeling, he cried out, \"Cock-a-doodle-do. God have mercy!\" Immediately, joy overcame the Baal Shem Tov, and he hurried to finish the day's prayers. Afterwards, he explained that the heartfelt prayer of the shepherd boy opened the Gates of Heaven, and the decree was lifted.\n\nThrough this emphasis, Hasidism popularised Jewish mysticism. It offered deveikut, that had previously been restricted in transcendent Kabbalistic forms, in new tangible, direct immanent perception. Later Hasidic paths adopted different methods in Jewish meditation for prayer, from the Breslov fostering of emotional Hitbodedut (\"secluded\" prayer), to Chabad intellectual Hitbonenut (\"Contemplative\" prayer).\n\nA part this simple and emphatic inclusion in meditation for God, in the text Likutey Halakhot of Breslov hassidic groups, they teach one of the most hidden form of jewish prayers: one prayer is usually realized after some time, for example to have good business, sons and other important desires of religious man, but this is manifestation before or at the istant of \"Devekut\", as follow:\n\n\"Devekut\" will be direct real revelation of good jewish intention to do Mitzvot and this should be unic true method to have miracle and manifestation of God.\n\nA revival of interest in Jewish music was sparked as part of Hasidism. Hasidic niggunim melodies are a distinctive form of voice instrumental music, expressing its mystical emotions of deveikut. Hasidism gave new emphasis to song as a form of worship in prayer. As many niggunim are without words, it is taught that the niggun can reach spiritual levels higher than the words of prayer can reach, as they open the heart to love and awe of God. As many niggunim were composed by Hasidic Masters, it is thought that through singing their melodies, the follower can be attached and inspired by the soul of their Rebbe. This musical dimension of Hasidic deveikut, similar to the new forms of worship in Hasidic storytelling, captures the characteristics of its mystical ecstasy.\n\nDifferent Hasidic groups evolved their own distinctive styles of niggun. Followers customarily gather around on Jewish holidays to sing in groups, receive and give spiritual inspiration, and celebrate brotherly camaraderie. Hasidic custom venerated pilgrimage to the particular Rebbe one had allegiance to, either to gain a private audience or to attend their public gatherings (Tish/Farbrengen). The celebrations give over his Torah teachings, sometimes personal messages, and are interspersed with inspirational niggunim.\n\nThere are nigunim for private meditation, often in prayer, called \"devekus nigunim\". These are usually slower than communal nigunim, and without lyrics. The Baal Shem Tov spoke of devekus nigunim as \"songs that transcend syllables and sound\". Several tunes attributed to him are still used today.\n\nSome niggunim originate from non-Jewish sources. Hasidic custom, based on a practice of the Baal Shem Tov, adapted secular anthems, marches and folk songs, ascribing to them a new spiritual interpretation. Hasidic belief is that these songs, in their secular forms, are in spiritual exile. By adapting them to liturgical forms, they are raising \"Sparks of Holiness\", based on the Kabbalistic rectification of Isaac Luria.\n\nOn Jewish festivals, such as in the intermediate days of Sukkot and during the traditional celebration of Simchat Torah, the most joyous day in the Jewish calendar, joyful niggunim are sung in the dancing in the synagogue.\n\nThere is a historical debate in Rabbinic literature as to whether Torah study or Mitzvot (Jewish observances) are spiritually superior. The 613 Mitzvot themselves are able to be divided into ethical (\"between man and man\") and ritual (\"between man and God\") observances. Mystical literature, based on Kabbalah, gives its own metaphysical reasons for the mitzvot. Hasidism arose at a time when advanced Talmudic study was seen as the supreme Jewish activity, yet was out of reach of the unlettered masses. The Baal Shem Tov gave new prominence to prayer and sincere observance of the mitzvot by the artless common folk. To the Baal Shem Tov, \"God desires the heart\". Just as the simple prayers of the common masses could reach beyond the self-aware spirituality of scholars, so too, their mitzvot could also reach spiritual levels that the Tzadikim envyed and emulated.\n\nIn the profound dimension of Hasidic philosophical interpretation of Kabbalah, the mitzvot are described as the metaphorical \"limbs of the King\" (God) and an embrace of the Divine essence expressed within the Will of the commandments. Hasidic tales are told of the deveikut of Rebbes and simple Jewish folk in their fulfilment of the mitzvot. Many tales are related of the fervour of Levi Yitzchok of Berditchev, called the \"Heavenly Advocate of Israel\" before God. His saintly emotional response to deveikut would break restrained rules of conduct, sometimes humorously in public. In one story, he prepares himself to ritually slaughter a chicken according to the halachic laws of shechita:\n\nAs he recited the blessing prior to the act, he dwelt on the holy commandment he was about to perform. \"Blessed art Thou, God..\", he began. \"..Who commands us concerning Shechita\", he concluded in such fervour that he lost all sense of his surroundings. Opening his eyes after the blessing, he looked around to find an empty room, with the chicken escaped. \"Where is the chicken\" he began asking!\n\nJewish mysticism:\n\nPractices:\nConcepts:\n\n"}
{"id": "1844805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844805", "title": "Livigno", "text": "Livigno\n\nLivigno (; local ; ) is a town, \"comune\" and a special-administered territory in the province of Sondrio, in the region of Lombardy, Italy, located in the Italian Alps, near the Swiss border.\n\nLivigno's first settlers were probably shepherds during the Middle Ages. The first documents called this area . The name possibly comes from an old German word for \"avalanche\" which have always been frequent in the valley – the last avalanche to hit the village was in 1951, causing seven deaths and damage to a dozen houses.\n\nPolitically, Livigno has always followed Bormio's history, although the relationships between the two communes have always been tense, Bormio being dominant and more populous than Livigno.\nUntil the 1970s Livigno was a farming village. In recent decades, however, things have changed, and nowadays Livigno enjoys a better economic situation and a higher number of inhabitants. Livigno has recently enjoyed one of Italy's highest birth rates (19.4 births per 1000 inhabitants).\nLivigno's economy is based on tourism, both in winter and in summer, and on its duty-free status, with goods sold at bargain prices.\n\nLivigno is above sea level. Livigno's main river is called Aqua Granda or Spöl. Trepalle, a \"frazione\" in the municipality of Livigno, is considered Europe's highest inhabited parish. Livigno was once a traditional and cultural village.\nLivigno is one of the few Italian villages which do not belong to the drainage basin of the Mediterranean Sea but to the Black Sea basin.\nA part of the old village was completely destroyed in the 1960s by the creation of a reservoir, the Lago di Livigno.\n\nLivigno has a very cold, wet climate. Most of winter is spent below freezing and snow is abundant. Summer is the only part of the year in which temperatures above are common, and frosts are less common (but still occur every year). Temperatures over are rare.\n\nSaint Mary's parish church was erected at the end of the 19th century, on a previous church. The current building incorporated the previous one, which was left standing until the end of works, allowing church services to be carried out as usual.\n\nOther buildings of note are the Caravaggio church, with some \"ex voto\" paintings and a picture which is traditionally attributed to Caravaggio, and Saint Rocco church, built at the beginning of the 16th century as an offering for protecting the village against plague.\nLocal scenery encompasses high peaked mountains and deep valleys.\n\nLivigno enjoys a special tax status as a duty-free area. Italian VAT (value added tax) is not paid. Although tax advantages for Livigno were recorded as far back as the sixteenth century, the current tax exemption was first introduced by the Austrian Empire around 1840. It was then confirmed by the Kingdom of Italy around 1910, then by the Italian Republic and the European Economic Community in 1960. Although no VAT is paid, income taxes are, thus Livigno cannot be considered as a tax haven.\n\nThe justification for such a status is the difficulty in reaching Livigno during winter, and the centuries-long history of poverty in the region. The various states wanted to ensure people would have an incentive to live in the area (so that they could claim it territorially). At the same time, the tax revenue from Livigno would have been negligible.\n\nOnly three roads lead to the town. Two link to Switzerland, one through the Forcola di Livigno, elevation and open in summer only, and the second through the Munt la Schera Tunnel. The third road connects to other parts of Italy through the Foscagno Pass, elevation .\n\nLeaving Livigno for the rest of Italy there is a custom checkpoint on the road manned by officers of the Italian militarized Guardia di Finanza. Entering or leaving from or to Switzerland there are both Guardia di Finanza officers and Swiss Border Guards.\n\nLivigno once made a living from agriculture and a little commerce. Smuggling was both widespread and not socially deprecated, being often the only way to survive in such a harsh environment. This generated some prejudice in the remaining population of Valtellina, where smuggling was also widespread, with the local proverb \"gent de cunfin, tücc' lader o asesin\", or \"border people, all thieves or murderers\".\n\nNowadays Livigno is a rich area, and the main activities are linked to tourism, especially as a ski resort. Many inhabitants of Valtellina visit once in a while to buy goods at substantially lower prices, especially tax-free gasoline, sometimes from as far as Sondrio. The tax free allowance for tourists applied here is the same as the one applied to travellers coming from any non EU country.\n\nThe 2005 Union Cycliste Internationale mountain biking world championships were held here, from 28 August to 4 September.\n\nDespite its small size, there are many cultural organizations in Livigno. Some of these are:\n\n\nThe mass-media sector is quite developed as well. In the 1980s a local radio, Radio Alteuropa, used to broadcast from Livigno, covering up to a wide part of the neighbouring Valtellina valley. The local monthly newspaper, Al Restel, was founded in the same period and it is still published today.\n\nNowadays, most of information is given by a TV channel, TeleMonteNeve, which broadcasts the city council's meetings, a news report three times a week and other information both for residents and for tourists. On-line new media is also growing. An example is Senzaiva, an on-line cultural magazine. Its name means \"without VAT\", referring to the special duty-free status of Livigno and of all cultural products.\nThe local dialect has been categorized in a dictionary, funded by the local administration. This language variety is used locally in street names and in some other signs, as well as on the official maps.\n\nSport also plays an important role. In Livigno there are nearly 20 sport associations, most of them are supported by an association called Sporting Club. Many young athletes often end up with good results in their discipline (see Notable people below). At the 2006 Turin Winter Olympics, no less than eight Italian athletes came from Livigno. It will be is used for snowboarding and freestyle skiing in the 2026 Winter Olympics in Milan and Cortina d'Ampezzo.\n\nIn 2015, Livigno was home to the European Freeride Festival which ran between January 31 and February 4.\n\nSince 2010 the International Livigno Chess Open has taken place, organized by the local chess club. It has attracted people from all over the world. Winner for 2010 was GM Igor Naumkin, in 2011 GM Sergey Volkov (both from Russia) and in 2012 the Italian GM Alberto David. These tournaments also proved successful, so that even the FIDE (World Chess Federation) has mentioned them.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1844806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844806", "title": "Matthew Robinson (producer)", "text": "Matthew Robinson (producer)\n\nMatthew Robinson (born 27 July 1944) is a British-Cambodian television and film executive producer, producer, director and writer. He directed many episodes of popular British television dramas and soap operas in the 1970s and 1980s. He became the first producer and later became the executive producer of the series \"Byker Grove\" (1989-1997), and was also made the executive producer of \"EastEnders\" (1998-2000). \n\nHe finished his British television career as the Head of Drama for BBC Wales. Since 2003 he has been based in Cambodia, where he runs his own production company, Khmer Mekong Films. \n\nRobinson was educated at Huntingdon Grammar School (1955–58), Friends School in Saffron Walden (1958–63) and King's College, Cambridge (1963–66) studying economics and editing Cambridge University student newspaper \"Varsity (Cambridge)\".\n\nRobinson's first job in television was as a researcher on the weekly consumer affairs programme \"On the Braden Beat\" made by ATV, \"Associated Television\" in 1966. He started directing in BBC Current Affairs (1969–73) on \"The Money Programme\", \"24 Hours\" and \"Nationwide\". This was followed by many hundreds of episodes of popular TV drama including \"Coronation Street\", \"Brookside\", \"Angels\", \"Emmerdale\", \"Bergerac\" and \"Howard's Way\". Robinson had a \"reputation as an action director\", and was employed to direct two \"Doctor Who\" adventures, \"Resurrection of the Daleks\" (1984) and \"Attack of the Cybermen\" (1985). Under pseudonym Henry Seaton he wrote 30 episodes of Central TV's \"Crossroads\" in 1986. Writing work also included two plays about television – \"Did Anyone Else Think TK9 Was Brilliant?\" and \"SUDS\" – staged in two London Fringe theatres in 1981 and 1983.\n\nFrom 1989 to 1997 Robinson set up, produced and part-directed the BBC's Newcastle-based teenage drama serial \"Byker Grove\". He cast Anthony McPartlin and Declan Donnelly as young heroes \"P.J.\" and \"Duncan\" and in 1993 launched their post-\"Byker Grove\" careers. Now known as Ant & Dec they are the UK's foremost light entertainment act. \"Byker Grove\" ran continuously for 17 years until it was axed in 2006.\n\nNicknamed \"Pope of Soap\" by UK tabloid \"The Sun\", Robinson was lead director of BBC1's soap opera \"EastEnders\" when it launched in 1985. His early casting included actors for the iconic characters \"Dirty\" Den Watts (Leslie Grantham), Pauline Fowler (Wendy Richard), Dot Cotton (June Brown), Nick Cotton (John Altman), Ian Beale (Adam Woodyatt), Charlie Cotton (Christopher Hancock) and Tony Carpenter (Oscar James).\n\nIn 1998 Robinson was appointed \"EastEnders\" Executive Producer by Mal Young, BBC Head of Drama Series and Peter Salmon, Controller BBC1.\n\nDuring his reign \"EastEnders\" won the BAFTA for \"Best Soap\" in consecutive years 1999 and 2000 and many other awards.\n\nRobinson soon earned the additional tabloid soubriquet \"Axeman of Albert Square\". He wrote out a large number of characters in one hit, including Sanjay Gapoor (Deepak Verma), Gita Kapoor (Shobu Kapoor), Neelam Kapoor (Jamila Massey), Michael Rose (Russell Floyd), Susan Rose (Tilly Vosburgh), Bruno and Luisa di Marco (Leon Lissek and Stella Tanner), Ruth Fowler (Caroline Paterson), George Palmer (Paul Moriarty) and original character Dr Legg (Leonard Fenton). He later went on to axe others including Tony Hills (Mark Homer), Simon Raymond (Andrew Lynford) and Huw Edwards (Richard Elis), and oversaw the high-profile exits of Tiffany Mitchell (Martine McCutcheon), Grant Mitchell (Ross Kemp) and Bianca Butcher (Patsy Palmer).\n\nIn their place Robinson introduced new long-running characters including Melanie Healy (Tamzin Outhwaite), Jamie Mitchell (Jack Ryder), Lisa Shaw (Lucy Benjamin), Steve Owen (Martin Kemp), Billy Mitchell (Perry Fenwick) and reintroduced Janine Butcher as a villain played by Charlie Brooks, making her a household name.\n\nHe quit \"EastEnders\" in 2000 to serve as Head of Drama for BBC Wales. He was Executive Producer on a BBC Wales production \"Care\" that won the \"Best Single Drama\" BAFTA Award in 2001.\n\nIn May 2003, Robinson left the UK for Cambodia to devise and produce a HIV health-related TV drama. The 100 episodes of \"Taste of Life\" – broadcast on the main entertainment channel, TV5, repeated on the state channel TVK – were financed by the British Government through DFID and managed by the BBC World Service Trust. In 2006 after \"Taste of Life\" ended its run (at one point gaining an audience of just over 50% of the country's population – then 14 million), he set up a film production company, Khmer Mekong Films, KMF, in Cambodia's capital Phnom Penh.\n\nIn addition to KMF's numerous TV dramas, documentaries and TV spots, he has produced ten Khmer language feature films, seven released on the Cambodian cinema circuit – \"Staying Single When\" 2007, \"Palace of Dreams\" 2008 (for BBC World Service Trust), \"Vanished\" 2009 and \"Price of Love\" 2016 (directed & written by Robinson based on an original story by BBC Script Producer Stuart Cheetham). \"Price of Love\" won four top awards at the 5th Cambodian National Film Festival (2017) including Best Film and Best Actress. \"King Selfie\" (directed and written by Robinson based on a story by English novelist Matthew Baylis), released in Cambodia in March 2018. A thriller, \"Fear\", was released in July 2019 to critical acclaim but mediocre box office. \n\nThe 7th film \"Move Out\" (in the popular 'Khmer Ghost Movie' genre) was released across Cambodia on 5 December 2019 achieving excellent box office returns. All stages of the 8th feature film, \"360 Degrees\", a romantic comedy, were completed in January 2020. \n\nShooting on the 9th film \"Day in the Country\" was completed in December 2019, a four-year project about an arranged marriage written and directed by Robinson. Exhibition of the 8th and 9th films await the re-opening of all Cambodian cinemas when the threat from the virus Covid-19 is deemed to have diminished.\nA 10th feature film, \"Dance Till You Drop\", a Bollywood-style movie set in Phnom Penh, started shooting in February 2020 but had to be abandoned in March because of dangers to the performers and crew from Covid-19. It is hoped shooting will re-start later in the year.\n\nSince 2015, Robinson has written a blog on \"EastEnders\" fansite Walford Web, sharing anecdotes about his two stints working on the show (1984–87 & 1998–99).\n\nRobinson is the older brother of singer-songwriter, bassist, radio presenter and long-time LGBT rights activist Tom Robinson.\n\nIn 2020 Robinson received Cambodian citizenship from Prime Minister Samdech Hun Sen following support from the Minister of Culture and Fine Arts.\n\n"}
{"id": "1844809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844809", "title": "Juruena River", "text": "Juruena River\n\nThe Juruena River () is a long river in west-central Brazil, in the state of Mato Grosso.\n\nThe Juruena originates in the Parecis plateau.\nWithin Mato Grosso the river defines the eastern boundary of the Igarapés do Juruena State Park, created in 2002.\nFor the last of its lower part the river becomes the border between the states Mato Grosso and Amazonas.\nIn this section the river forms the boundary between the Sucunduri State Park to the west in Amazonas and the Juruena National Park to the east in Mato Grosso.\nIn the north of this section it forms the boundary between the Bararati Sustainable Development Reserve in Amazonas and the Apiacás Ecological Reserve in Mato Grosso.\n\nThe Juruena finally joins the Teles Pires river to form the Tapajós river, which is one of the biggest tributaries to the Amazon River. The Juruena River is not navigable due to its many waterfalls and rapids.\nThe river is known for the Salto Augusto Falls.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1844822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844822", "title": "Archduke Otto of Austria", "text": "Archduke Otto of Austria\n\nArchduke Otto of Austria can refer to the following members of the Austrian Royal or Imperial family:\n\n"}
{"id": "1844824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844824", "title": "Sales Pitch (short story)", "text": "Sales Pitch (short story)\n\n\"Sales Pitch\" is a science fiction short story by American writer Philip K. Dick, first published in \"Future Science Fiction \"magazine, June 1954. The premise is the omnipresent, intrusive and even aggressive advertising and marketing. At the end of the story, the protagonist is driven mad by a robot who can forcefully market himself, and refuses to take no for an answer. The subject was of concern to Dick, and features in his early works such as \"The Man Who Japed\".\n\nIn 1978, Dick said of the story:\n\nFor a 1989–1990 radio series, Sci Fi Radio produced an audio play version of this story which is now available for free download. The story was adapted by Tony Grisoni for the episode \"Crazy Diamond\" of the 2017 TV series \"Philip K. Dick's Electric Dreams\".\n"}
