{"id": "1856347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856347", "title": "Ray Lindwall", "text": "Ray Lindwall\n\nRaymond Russell Lindwall (3 October 1921 – 23 June 1996) was a cricketer who represented Australia in 61 Tests from 1946 to 1960. He is widely regarded as one of the greatest fast bowlers of all time. He also played top-flight rugby league football with St. George, appearing in two grand finals for the club before retiring to fully concentrate on Test cricket.\n\nA right-arm fast bowler of express pace, Lindwall was widely regarded as the greatest pace bowler of his era and one of the finest of all time. He modelled his action on the great England fast bowler Harold Larwood. Together with Keith Miller, Lindwall formed a new-ball pairing regarded as one of the greatest to have played cricket. Lindwall was known for his classical style, with a smooth and rhythmic run-up and textbook side-on bowling action, from which he generated his trademark outswinger which moved away late at high pace. Lindwall mixed his outswinger with a searing yorker, subtle changes of pace and an intimidating bouncer that skidded at the heads of opposing batsmen. Later in his career, Lindwall developed an inswinger, which together with his variety, pace and control made him the most feared paceman of his time. Lindwall was a fine all round cricketer; he was a hard-hitting batsman who scored two centuries at Test level and often improved Australia's position with his lower order batting. Lindwall's best known performance was his role in leading the Australian bowling during the 1948 tour of England under Don Bradman; the 1948 Australian team went through the tour undefeated and gained the sobriquet \"The Invincibles\" which saw it regarded as one of the finest teams in cricketing history. Lindwall's place in Australian cricket history saw him inducted into the Australian Cricket Hall of Fame in 1996 as one of the ten inaugural members. In 2000, Lindwall was named in the Australian Cricket Board's Team of the Century.\n\nOne of five children of Irish-Swedish descent, Lindwall had a difficult childhood during the Great Depression, with both parents dying before he finished high school. Lindwall was inspired in his childhood after watching England's Harold Larwood, the fastest bowler of the era, terrorise the Australian batsmen during the notorious \"Bodyline\" series of 1932–33 with short-pitched intimidatory bowling. During his teenage years, Lindwall rose through the ranks of Sydney Grade Cricket at St. George under the tutelage of Test leg spinner Bill O'Reilly, who was regarded as the finest bowler in the world at the time. Lindwall made his first-class debut for New South Wales in 1941–42. At the same time, Lindwall, a fine athlete, was playing for St. George in the first-grade of the New South Wales Rugby Football League premiership as a full back. With the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor, interstate cricket was cancelled and in 1943, Lindwall joined the army and served in New Guinea until 1945. Lindwall returned to Australia still suffering from the after-effects of tropical disease, but he quickly made an impact upon the resumption of first-class cricket. He did well enough to gain selection for a tour of New Zealand, where he made his Test debut in March 1946 in a match that was retrospectively accredited. Lindwall returned to Australia and spent the winter playing football for St. George, helping his team to the grand final of the 1946 NSWRFL season, after which he retired to concentrate solely on cricket.\n\nLindwall began his celebrated opening partnership with Miller during the 1946–47 season which saw his first Ashes series against England. Lindwall brought up his maiden Test century in the Second Test and was the leading wicket-taker as Australia established its ascendancy in the post-war era. He topped the bowling the following season against India and then led the Australian attack during its celebrated \"Invincibles\" tour of England. He took 86 wickets for the tour, including 27 in the Tests, the most by any bowler. He was at his best in the Fifth Test at The Oval, when England were skittled for only 52, taking 6/20 as the hosts were unable to cope with his high-pace swing. Lindwall's efforts saw him named as one of the five \"Wisden\" Cricketers of the Year.\n\nFollowing the \"Invincibles\" tour, Lindwall found the pitches in South Africa in 1949–50 less to his liking and was dropped for the final Test. He returned in the following season against England, regularly taking wickets in another series win. The following year, he played a major part in stopping the much vaunted West Indian batsmen, but he was criticised for his prolific use of short-pitched bowling. In 1952, Lindwall played in the Lancashire League in England, where he developed his inswinger. He returned to 1953 with an aging national team in decline and despite the loss of the Ashes, commentators felt that Lindwall was at his zenith in terms of his bowling craft. Upon returning to Australia, Lindwall moved north to Queensland due to work commitments and then suffered a season of injury and illness in 1954–55 which saw him perform poorly as England retained the Ashes easily. After a strong performance in the Caribbean, Lindwall missed half of the 1956 English tour with injury and was otherwise ineffective as Australia lost its third consecutive Ashes series. During the return trip to Australia, Lindwall captained Australia for the only time in a Test match against India in Mumbai, after injuries forced out regular captain Ian Johnson. Following the repeated defeats to England, the Australian selectors instituted generational change and gambled on a radical youth policy which saw Lindwall dropped for the 1957–58 tour of South Africa. Lindwall forced his way back into the Test team at 37 years of age in the following season, breaking Clarrie Grimmett's Australian Test record of 216 wickets. He retired from Test cricket after the tour of the Indian subcontinent in the following season, with a total of 228 Test wickets. In retirement, Lindwall mentored Test world-record holder Dennis Lillee and also served as a national selector.\n\nIn 2009, Lindwall was inducted into the ICC Cricket Hall of Fame.\n\nLindwall was born in Mascot, a south-eastern suburb of Sydney, the fourth of five children. He had one younger sister, two older sisters one of which was Eileen Lindwall who married Frank Weston and an older brother. The grandson of Swedish and Irish immigrants, Lindwall had a difficult childhood with his mother Catherine dying of pneumonia when he was seven. His father Arthur had a job at the Water and Sewerage Board, but the children were aware that their father could not financially support them beyond school-leaving age.\n\nAt the age of 11, Lindwall and his elder brother Jack were spectators at the Sydney Cricket Ground on the second day of the First Test of the 1932–33 Ashes series. The series saw the usage of the notorious \"Bodyline\" tactics by England's pace battery led by Harold Larwood under the captaincy of Douglas Jardine. Larwood, a small man like Lindwall, was less than six feet and intimidated opposition batsmen with express pace bowling, aiming short pitched bouncers at their upper body. Larwood also had a smooth, rhythmic run-up and a classical side-on action, something for which Lindwall became famous. The match was also remembered for Stan McCabe's much-celebrated 187 not out, aggressively resisting the \"Bodyline\" tactics as Australia fell to a heavy ten wicket defeat.\n\nThe Lindwall brothers returned to their home in Hurstville, where Ray henceforth attempted to emulate Larwood. He wanted to replicate the physical threat posed by Larwood to batsmen, as well as the dynamic batting of McCabe. Lindwall attempted to copy Larwood's action in his routine street cricket matches, before terrorising his classmates at primary school. Lindwall said that \"he was the most famous fast bowler in the world and I naturally wanted to copy him\". Lindwall's formal cricket education began the following year when he commenced his secondary schooling at Marist Brothers Kogarah. The school had teachers that had a habit of scouting around for athletic boys who could bring sporting honour to the institution. The headmaster, Brother Aidan O'Keefe, was a competent player and invested time into training Lindwall. O'Keefe taught Lindwall batting repertoire while also encouraging him to remain aggressive. He taught Lindwall to add accuracy and variation to his raw speed. By the age of 13, Lindwall was leading the under-15 school team, opening both the batting and bowling. Aged 14, Lindwall played in two distinct Saturday competitions – in the morning against schoolboys and with adults in the afternoon in a B-grade competition with Carlton Waratahs. On one outing, he scored 219 and an unbeaten 110 in two different matches on the same day.\n\nLindwall's physique had matured by the time he was 15, and he was also successful at athletics and swimming. Aware that he needed a good education with his family in poverty during the Great Depression, Lindwall lifted himself for his final year of junior high school and won a half-scholarship to Marist Brothers Darlinghurst for 1937 and 1938. However, Lindwall's focus on rugby league and cricket saw him fail his Leaving Certificate in his final year.\n\nDuring his secondary school years, Lindwall focused on his batting and gained a reputation as a dynamic shotmaker. In early October 1938, with his final school year drawing to a close, Lindwall was among a group of young cricketers who received an invitation to practise at the SCG with the state team. Lindwall was the first to volunteer to bowl to Jack Fingleton, who was one of Australia's first-choice opening batsmen, having just returned from the 1938 Ashes tour. Lindwall peppered Fingleton with a series of yorkers, bouncers and outswingers. In the space of 15 minutes, Lindwall bowled Fingleton four times and beat the bat on several other occasions. When questioned by his coach, Fingleton brushed off Lindwall's performance, noting \"I'm just off the boat. I'm not seeing the ball.\" Lindwall was stung by the comments, noting that it taught him to hate all batsmen.\n\nLindwall was only in the Third XI of St. George at the time, but by December, he was in the First XI along with future \"Invincibles\" teammate Arthur Morris. The senior team was captained by Bill O'Reilly, a leg spin bowler who represented Australia in Tests and was regarded as the best bowler in the world. O'Reilly was a firm man and came to be a father figure for Lindwall. Lindwall came into the team seeing himself as an into-the-wind swing bowler. O'Reilly felt that pace bowlers were only useful for a few overs with new ball, so he instructed Lindwall to lengthen his run-up and bowl as fast as possible. O’Reilly also decided that the team needed more bowlers. He placed Lindwall low in the batting order, where he often did not get an opportunity to bat. Lindwall did not bother protesting, realising that dissent against the autocratic O’Reilly would be futile. O'Reilly also reversed Morris from a bowler into a batsman. Both Morris and Lindwall became world-leading players in the fields that O’Reilly chose for them. By the end of the 1938–39 season, Lindwall had not yet established himself as a cricketer. Former Test batsman Charlie Macartney lamented what he perceived as a lack of talent and substance at St. George. Lindwall returned to school, attempting to obtain his Leaving Certificate while also playing third-grade rugby. In July, Lindwall's father died, leaving him and his four siblings orphaned.\n\nAt the end of the year, Lindwall gained his Leaving Certificate. This made him eligible to study at university, but this clashed with his desire to play sport and earn money to help support his parentless family. He thus took an office job with Commercial Steel and Forge Company, which manufactured aeroplane parts and bomb fuses. During the 1939–40 season, Lindwall's bowling was only moderately successful, with 16 wickets at 34.93. A highlight of the season was an unbeaten 49 as St. George won the grade final.\n\nIn the winter of 1940 Lindwall made his first grade rugby league debut in the New South Wales Rugby Football League premiership for the St. George club alongside his older brother Jack, who had been with the club since 1938. He played at and assumed goal-kicking responsibilities. Lindwall's cricketing improved during the 1940–41 season, taking 34 wickets at 16.45, approximately doubling his wickets while halving their cost. By this time, many of his colleagues had enlisted in the armed services and the competition was beginning to thin out during World War II. Lindwall missed the 1941 NSWRFL season due to illness, and in doing so missed out on the team that won the premiership that season. In October 1941, Lindwall was selected to make his first-class cricket debut against Queensland in Brisbane, just after turning 20. Playing along his childhood hero McCabe, Lindwall put in a wayward performance. He conceded an expensive 81 runs in 15 wicketless overs and made just one run with the bat. The Sheffield Shield season was cancelled a month later after the December 1941 Pearl Harbor attack, that signalled the widening of the war into the Pacific arena. The Sydney grade cricket competition continued, and Lindwall helped St. George to a hat-trick of premierships with 27 wickets at 22.19 and 405 runs at 27.00.\n\nDuring the winter of 1942, Lindwall helped the St. George Dragons rugby league team to reach the grand final for the second consecutive year and also finished the season as the League's top point-scorer. Lindwall and his brother Jack, who played on the , scored all of the team's points in the grand final, Jack scoring a try and Ray kicking three goals. However they were denied by a last-minute penalty goal and St. George were defeated by Canterbury-Bankstown 11–9. All the while, the Japanese were inching ever closer to Australia. Malaya had fallen and the northern Australian city of Darwin had been the subject of Japanese air raids.\n\nArmy commitments intervened during the 1943 season. Lindwall had attempted to enlist in the Royal Australian Air Force, but he was rejected because the employees of his firm were exempted from military service. Thus Lindwall resigned his job in order to join the army. As part of his Anti-aircraft and Fortress Signal unit, he was deployed in May 1943 to New Guinea as the Japanese reached the Kokoda Trail close to Port Moresby. Lindwall's unit were bombed while they were ashore and he was lucky not to be killed. In 1945, he returned from the Solomon Islands, where he was believed to have contracted malaria and Dengue fever, although medical tests did not confirm this, he needed injections and atebrin tablets to aid him in recovering from bouts of minor illness for some time afterwards, and he resumed State cricket in 1945–46, despite the rigours of war having reduced him to just 73 kg, which was thin for his height of 178 cm.\n\nLindwall resumed his first-class cricket career steadily against Queensland and South Australia. Lindwall gave his first indications of cricketing potential on a 38 degree day in the second innings of a match against Victoria. A day after suffering a mild malaria attack, Lindwall gave a spell of four overs which netted him three wickets, bowling at speeds not seen in Australia since Larwood. An innings of 134 not out in just 180 minutes against Queensland at the SCG underlined by cutting and driving exhibited his batting skill, and with a haul of 9/77 against South Australia further underlining his allround credential. Lindwall gained further attention when he turned out for New South Wales against the feted Australian Services team of Lindsay Hassett that had played in the 1945 Victory Tests in England. Lindwall's hostile bowling delivered three wickets in each innings, finishing with match figures of 6/95, leading Hassett to rate him as the best fast-bowling prospect in a decade. With 33 wickets for the season, Lindwall as selected for an Australian team tour of New Zealand under Bill Brown. He played in a Test against New Zealand, which was not awarded Test status until 1948. In a match in which Australia fielded seven Test debutants, Lindwall opened the bowling with state teammate Ernie Toshack. Lindwall had limited opportunities on a sticky wicket which favoured the slower bowling of O’Reilly and Toshack, who took eight and seven wickets respectively. He took 1/13 and 1/16 as Australia won by an innings and 103 runs. Lindwall made a duck in Australia's only innings.\nLindwall returned to Australia and resumed his rugby league career with St. George in the 1946 NSWRFL season after a two-year absence, starting in reserve grade. His strong performances saw him promoted to first grade and that season St. George Dragons qualified for the grand final against the Balmain Tigers. Lindwall's goalkicking abilities were not on display that day, as Balmain won the game 13–12, scoring three tries to St George's four, with Lindwall missing every kick at goal. He retired from competitive rugby on the advice of O`Reilly to concentrate on cricket. Lindwall played 31 first-grade rugby league games for St George, scoring seven tries (then worth three points) and kicking 123 goals for a total of 267 career points. The narrow losses in the 1942 and 1946 grand finals prevented him from emulating Herbie Collins' unique feat of following a New South Wales Rugby League premiership victory with captaining the Australian cricket team. Lindwall's brother Jack was, at the time of his retirement, the club's leading try-scorer with 110.\n\nHaving retired from rugby league, Lindwall was selected to make his Ashes and home soil debut in the First Test against England in Brisbane. It was his first Test under the captaincy of Don Bradman, universally regarded as the best batsman in history. Bradman had just returned from a break. Lindwall was a fan of Bradman's leadership, recalling that \"he put me at ease straight away\" and that \"his presence was inspiring for all the team\". Lindwall waited for over two days to see action, coming to bat after Australia had reached 7/599. He scored his first runs with 31 as Australia reached 645. He bowled only briefly in the first innings, with 0/23 before being forced from the field with chickenpox, which prevented him from bowling in the second innings as Australia secured a heavy innings victory. The illness prevented Lindwall from playing in the Second Test in Sydney in what would have been his first Test in his home town.\n\nLindwall returned for the Third Test at Melbourne which saw 343,675 spectators – second only to the 350,534 at the Third Test on the same ground in 1936–37 – with record receipts of £44,063. Lindwall was dismissed for only nine in Australia's first innings, bowled by Alec Bedser. He set up a successful fast bowling partnership with Keith Miller, known for giving the English batsmen an \"opening blitz\", especially Len Hutton. One English pressman wrote that this was Bodyline, to the anger of Vic Richardson, Alan Kippax and Clarrie Grimmett who had seen the real thing. Lindwall took his first Ashes wicket, having Test world record holder Len Hutton caught for two by a diving Colin McCool before having Bill Edrich leg before wicket. Lindwall later dismissed English captain Wally Hammond in the second innings. However, it was Lindwall's batting in the second innings that was the highlight of the Test, scoring his first Test century. Lindwall and wicketkeeper Don Tallon (92) produced a counterattacking eighth wicket partnership of 154 in only 87 minutes. Lindwall was on 80 when Tallon fell and was still 19 runs short when last man Toshack came to the crease. Toshack defended grimly as Lindwall attacked and reached 100 before being caught. Lindwall brought up his century by walking three metres out of his crease and straight-driving Alec Bedser to the fence. Lindwall's innings lasted only 113 minutes and 90 balls, the second fastest in Australian Test history after Jack Gregory's 67-ball effort in 1920–21.\n\nIn the Fourth Test at Adelaide Lindwall came the closest to a hat-trick in his entire Test career. He finished England's innings by clean bowling three batsmen in four deliveries, with the unsuccessful ball barely missing Doug Wright's stumps to end with 4/52. Lindwall took the last four wickets in two overs, conceding two runs. He took 2/60 and scored 20 in another drawn match. Lindwall came into the final Test on his home ground in Sydney with a match haul of 10/73 in a Shield match. He continued his productive series with 7/63 in the first innings on a flat pitch, managing to generate enough pace to knock the bat out of Denis Compton's hands. Lindwall took two further wickets in the second innings as Australia took a 3–0 series win with another innings victory. Lindwall topped the bowling averages on either side with 18 wickets at 20.38, in addition to his 160 runs at 32.00.\n\nIn the 1947–48 season, the tour by the Indian cricket team saw Lindwall take his career best bowling figures of 7/38 at the Adelaide Oval in the second innings of the Fourth Test. Lindwall was again the leading wicket-taker for the series, with 18 wickets at 16.88, in addition to his 70 runs at 14.00.\n\nIn the First Test at the Gabba, Lindwall removed Vinoo Mankad and Gul Mohammad in the first over on a sticky wicket, precipitating a collapse which saw India skittled for 58.\n\nAs a result, Lindwall was selected as part of Sir Donald Bradman's \"Invincibles\" that toured England without defeat in 1948. There were two concerns for Lindwall in the lead-up to the start of the tour. Lindwall was carrying an injured leg tendon and his foot drag in the delivery stride led to murmurings in the media and among umpires as to its legality. Bradman arranged for Lindwall to see his Melbourne masseur Ern Saunders, who had Lindwall's leg back to prime condition in a fortnight. On the public relations front. Bradman stated his firm belief that Lindwall's delivery was fair. During the lengthy boat journey to England, Bradman emphasized to Lindwall the importance of caution with respect to his bowling action. Bradman advised Lindwall to keep his dragging rear right foot even further than usual, to avoid being no-balled, and to avoid bowling at full speed until the umpires were satisfied with his action. Bradman assured Lindwall that he was an automatic selection for the Tests even if he did not take a wicket in the lead-in tour matches, telling him that being passed by the umpires was the first priority. Bradman recalled how Ernie McCormick had been no-balled 35 times in traditional tour opener against Worcester during the 1938 tour, destroying his confidence. Lindwall was not no-balled in the first match at Worcester, and so it remained for the rest of the tour.\n\nWith matters now turned to actual bowling, Lindwall's classical bowling action evoked as much public interest as his captain's batting. In a match against Nottinghamshire at Trent Bridge he took 6/14, to gain a psychological blow for the forthcoming Test at the same venue. Three of his victims were castled by his yorker. In the following match he twice skittled Sussex with match figures of 11/59, five of whom were bowled by yorkers, as the hosts were bowled out for 86 and 138 respectively.\n\nLindwall lined up for the First Test at Trent Bridge, where he had taken six wickets in the tour game. Australia bowled first, and Lindwall took the wicket of Cyril Washbrook, before he was forced to leave the field with a groin strain with figures of 1/30. Lindwall returned in Australia's innings, batting at No. 9 without a runner, where he partnered vice-captain Hassett (137) in a century partnership to lift Australia's score to 509 to take a 344 run lead. Lindwall could not bowl in the second innings as Australia completed an eight wicket victory.\n\nLindwall was subjected to a thorough fitness test on the morning of the Second Test at Lord's two weeks later, the home of cricket. Bradman was not convinced of Lindwall's fitness, but the bowler's protestations was sufficient to convince his captain to gamble on his inclusion. Australia won the toss and elected to bat, allowing Lindwall further time to recover. Lindwall contributed 15 to Australia's total of 350. He then took the new ball and felt pain in his groin again after delivering his first ball to Hutton. Despite this, Lindwall persevered through the pain. He had Washbrook caught behind in his fourth over and then clean bowled Edrich and Tom Dollery in the space of three balls. England were 4/46 and Australia firmly in control. He later returned to bowl English captain Norman Yardley after an 87 run stand with Compton, before finishing with 5/70 as Australia took a 135 first innings lead. Lindwall then contributed 25 as Australia declared at 7/460 immediately upon his dismissal, leaving England to chase a world-record 596 for victory. Lindwall removed Hutton with the new ball and later returned to remove Dollery and Jim Laker without the addition of a single run to take 3/61 as Australia took a 409 run victory. In later years, Bradman told Lindwall that he pretended not to notice Lindwall's pain. Lindwall was worried that Bradman had noticed his injury, but Bradman later claimed that he feigned ignorance to allow Lindwall to relax.\n\nWhen the teams reconvened at Old Trafford for the Third Test, Hutton had been dropped. The reason was said to be Hutton's struggles with Lindwall's short-pitched bowling. The Australians were pleased, feeling that Hutton was England's best batsman. England batted first and made 350, with Compton making an unbeaten 145 despite being felled by a Lindwall bouncer. This forced Compton to leave the field with a bloodied eyebrow with the score at 2/33. Lindwall then removed George Emmett, Edrich and Jack Crapp to leave England at 5/119 before Compton returned to revive the innings as Lindwall ended with 4/99. Lindwall came into bat at 6/172 with Sid Barnes forced to retire hurt and Australia facing the prospect of the follow on. He then received five consecutive bouncers from Edrich, one of which hit him in the hand, evoking cheers from the home crowd. Lindwall made 23 as Australia struggled to 221 and avoided the follow on. Lindwall removed Emmett for a duck in the second innings, bringing his tormentor Edrich to the crease. Bradman advised Lindwall not to bowl any bouncers at Edrich, fearing that it would be interpreted as retaliation and lead to a negative media reaction. The match petered into a draw after the entire fourth day was washed out.\n\nHutton returned for the Fourth Test at Headingley and an opening partnership of 168 resulted until he was bowled by Lindwall. England ran up a large score of 496, with Lindwall taking 2/79. In reply, Australia was still some way behind when Lindwall came in at 6/329. With the fall of Sam Loxton and Ron Saggers, Australia was at 8/355 with only Bill Johnston and Ernie Toshack remaining. Lindwall hit out, scoring 77, an innings marked by powerful driving and pulling, dominating in stands of 48 and 55 with Johnston and Toshack respectively, leaving Australia 38 runs in arrears on the first innings. Lindwall took 2/84 before England declared on the final day, leaving Australia to chase a world Test record of 404 for victory, which they did successfully. Centuries to Bradman and Morris in a 301-run stand saw Australia seal the series 3–0 with a world record. \n\nThe final Test at The Oval saw Lindwall at his best. English captain Yardley won the toss and elected to bat on a rain affected pitch. Lindwall had Compton dismissed before lunch after Morris had taken a difficult catch. After the break, England had struggled to 4/35, before Lindwall bowled Yardley with a swinging yorker. He then had Godfrey Evans, Alec Bedser and Jack Young all yorked in the space of two runs. The innings ended at 52 when Hutton leg glanced and was caught by wicket-keeper Don Tallon, who caught the ball one handed at full stretch to his left. Lindwall described the catch as one of the best he had ever seen. In his post-lunch spell, Lindwall bowled 8.1 overs, taking five wickets for eight runs, finishing with 6/20 in 16.1 overs. Bradman described the spell as \"the most devastating and one of the fastest I ever saw in Test cricket\". After Australia had replied with 389, England were bowled out for 188 in their second innings, giving Australia an innings victory and the series 4–0. Lindwall took 3/50 to give him 9/70 for the match. He ended the series as the leading wicket-taker with 27 wickets at 19.62, and scored 191 runs at 31.83. The English were unable to cope with his swing, with 43 of his wickets coming after the batsmen had missed the ball and were bowled. For the entire tour, Lindwall took 86 wickets at 15.68 and scored 405 runs at 24.17. Lindwall's Test haul of 27 scalps equalled the record for an Australian fast bowler in England. \"Wisden\" recognised him by naming him as one of its five \"Wisden\" Cricketers of the Year in 1949, citing his ability to allow Australia to seize the initiative in all but one of the Tests by achieving early breakthroughs against their batting. \"Wisden\" said that \"by whatever standard he is judged\", Lindwall must \"be placed permanently in the gallery of great fast bowlers\", attributing his success to \"superb control of length and direction, his change of pace and general skill, the like of which in a slower bowler could be classed as cunning\". The ferocity of Lindwall's bouncer often prompted opposing batsmen to retreat onto the back foot even before he had released the ball. These efforts led him to achieve the number 1 ranking in ICC Test Bowlers ranking for 1948 (which he regained in 1949).\n\nUpon the return of the \"Invincibles\" to Australian soil, Lindwall played in Bradman's Testimonial match at the MCG in December 1948. Lindwall featured prominently on the first day, smashing 104 in 86 minutes for Hassett's XI. The match raised around 10,000 pounds.\n\nThe following season in 1949–50, the Australians headed to South Africa for a five Test tour. Lindwall's partnership with Miller was broken up when the latter was omitted from the touring squad. Miller stated that he wished to be considered only as a batsman and his omission caused great controversy. In any case, Miller was drafted in as cover after Johnston was involved in a car accident at the start of the tour, although both went on to play in all five Tests. Lindwall started the tour on a poor note in the First Test at Wanderers in Johannesburg, scoring 21 and then going wicketless as Australia completed an innings victory. It was the first time that Lindwall had failed to take a wicket in both innings of a Test. His wicketless run persisted until the second innings of the Second Test in Cape Town, where he took 5/32 after the hosts had been forced to follow on, as Australia completed another easy victory. Lindwall then took match figures of 4/54 as Australia completed a hat-trick of victories at Durban. Lindwall took 3/82 in South Africa's only innings in the Fourth Test at Johannesburg, but was dropped for the Fifth Test, something that surprised cricket commentators. His tour had been intermittently interrupted by groin problems, fibrositis and a stomach disorder, and his 12 wickets at an average of 20.66 at three wickets per match was below his customary rate. Overall, when fit, he was effective, with 50 wickets at 14.58. Lindwall forced his way back into the XI for the First Test of the 1950-51 Ashes series against Freddie Brown's England team. Australia struggled to 228 in its first innings with Lindwall making the second top-score of 41 in supporting Neil Harvey (74) in a rearguard action. Lindwall was not required as Miller and Johnston's medium pace reduced England to 7/68 on a sticky wicket before Brown declared, forcing the Australian to bat on the unfavourable pitch. Australia then declared at 7/32. Lindwall yorked Reg Simpson first ball and Australia seized the initiative, reducing England to 6/30 before bowling them out for 122 to take the match by 70 runs. Lindwall took five wickets in the Second Test in Melbourne, two of which came in the closing stages of the English run-chase. Chasing 178, England lost Brown and Evans in consecutive overs to the second new ball and ended 28 runs short of victory. Australia went on seal the series with an innings victory in the Third Test in Sydney – Lindwall bowled Brown and Bedser before breaking Trevor Bailey's thumb in the first innings to help Australia seize control. In the Fourth Test in Adelaide, Lindwall took 3/51 in England's first innings before scoring a patient 31 in Australia's second innings, helping to set up at target that was 274 runs too much for Brown's men. The Fifth and final Test of the summer was to be the first Test defeat for Lindwall in the first 24 Tests of his career. Despite taking 3/77 in the first innings to complement the four wickets of Miller – the most in an innings by the pair during the series – England took their first win over Australia since 1938. Lindwall had taken 15 wickets at 22.93 for the series.\n\nThe 1951–52 season saw the arrival of the West Indies for the first time in two decades. The Caribbeans has just defeated England in England and were expected to test Australia, with the series seen as the battle between the best two teams in the world. Their batting was led by the celebrated batting trio, the three W's: Frank Worrell, Everton Weekes and Clyde Walcott. Lindwall entered the First Test in Brisbane in good form, having taken nine wickets in a Sheffield Shield match against Queensland in the lead-up. His pace caught the tourists off guard, having not faced a bowler of such speed before. He took 4/62 in the first innings before top-scoring with 61 as Australia struggled and managed to only post a first innings lead of 10 runs. Lindwall was wicketless in the second innings and Australia faced 236 to win. They were again struggling at 6/149, before a sixth wicket stand of 54 between Lindwall (29) and Graeme Hole (45*) saw Australia secure a narrow three wicket victory. The Second Test in Sydney saw an increase in the amount of short-pitched deliveries, leading \"Wisden\" to bemoan the \"relentless bumper tactics\". Lindwall's bowling unsettled the West Indian batsmen but their captain John Goddard felt that the tactics were legitimate and that his batsmen should counter-attack. Lindwall took 4/66 in the first innings before scoring 48 as Australia took a 155 first innings lead. In the second innings, Lindwall took two further wickets and struck vice-captain Jeff Stollmeyer in the head. At one stage, Lindwall bowled 15 bouncers in five overs. Australia went on to win the match by seven wickets. The Third Test was an uneventful one for Lindwall, taking a solitary wicket as the tourists took a six wicket victory on a sticky pitch. Lindwall had another unspectacular match in the Fourth Test with combined figures of 3/131, before contributing 29 in the run chase of 260. Australia narrowly made the target with one wicket in hand, allowing them to take a 3–1 series lead instead of a 2–2 result. The series ended with a controversial battle between Lindwall and Weekes on the final day of the Fifth Test in Sydney. The tourists resumed at 2/112 in pursuit of 416 for victory and were repeatedly bounced by Lindwall and Miller. During Lindwall's sixth over, Weekes missed an attempted hook shot after hesitating. His batting partner Stollmeyer ordered him not to play the hook, something that Lindwall overheard. Lindwall responded by bowling further bouncers, which elicited uncertain responses from the batsman. Weekes repeatedly positioned himself to hook, before restraining himself, leading to further instructions from Stollmeyer and taunting from the Australians. Lindwall bowled his fourth consecutive bouncer and managed to extract an uncertain hook shot from Weekes, which resulted in his dismissal behind the wicket. Lindwall went on to take 5/52 for the innings and 7/72 for the match, securing a 4–1 series win. Lindwall had contributed heavily to the team's success with bat and ball, with 21 wickets at 23.04 and 211 runs at 26.37, but he was also criticised for his use of the short ball.\n\nLindwall accepted an offer to play in the Lancashire League in England during the Australian winter of 1952, joining Nelson Cricket Club for a sum of 600 pounds and bonuses, which did not include the boat fares for him and his wife. Lindwall took 96 wickets at 8.37 during the season and developed an inswinger on the advice of a local umpire who adamantly refused to give leg before wicket decisions to outswingers. Lindwall returned to Australia with a newborn son who has been born during his stay in Lancashire, and he was greeted by media speculation as to whether his professional sojourn had improved or detracted from his capabilities. Lindwall's form leading into the Tests against South Africa in 1952–53 prompted observers to opine that he was bowling better than ever, reinforced with the inswinger and his trademark Yorker. Lindwall made 70 from a total of 148 on a sticky wicket against South Australia in Adelaide that led Miller to regard it as the best innings he had seen under such conditions. He made the score after being sent in to open the batting in the absence of Sid Barnes.\n\nLindwall showed his versatility again in the First Test in Brisbane, scoring an unbeaten 38 in the second innings to extend Australia's lead to 373. When South Africa attempted to chase the target, Lindwall took 5/60 to cut them down 96 runs short of victory. Lindwall was reunited with Miller when the latter returned from injury for the Second Test at Melbourne, and despite the old combination taking 12 wickets, with Lindwall taking match figures of 5/116, Australia fell 82 runs short and South Africa had its first Test victory over Australia in 42 years. The teams moved to the home ground of Miller and Lindwall for the Third Test in Sydney, and the local pair delivered, taking seven wickets between them to skittle the tourists for 173, with Lindwall taking 4/40. With Australia having taken a 270 first innings lead, Lindwall allowed Australia to seize the initiative, removing both openers in his first three overs, before ending with 4/72 to ensure an innings victory and a 2–1 series lead. The value of Lindwall and Miller were demonstrated during the final two Tests. At the Fourth Test in Adelaide, both broke down mid-game and left Australia two bowlers short. Chasing 377, the South Africans managed to stave off the bowling and secure a draw. Both were absent for the Fifth Test in Melbourne and South Africa capitalised, defeating the Australians by six wickets despite the home side having scored 520 in their first innings. The absence of Lindwall and Miller's new ball partnership allowed South Africa to fight back and draw the series 2–2, making it the first series that Australia had not won since 1938. Lindwall had taken 19 wickets at 20.16 in just three and a half Tests for the series, and Australia seemed unlikely to find replacements for their leading strike pair anytime soon; their eventual successors Richie Benaud and Alan Davidson were still to become regular internationals.\n\nLindwall returned to England in 1953, the site of his triumph five years earlier. Lindwall was to exhibit performances that were rated higher than during the \"Invincibles\" tour. Roland Perry wrote that Lindwall \"reached his zenith, producing a sustained, sensational season of brilliant, powerful and intelligent fast bowling\". In the tour matches leading up to the Test, Lindwall set about gaining a psychological advantage over England's leading batsmen. In doing so, he could leave them in a poor state leading up to the Test, potentially curtailing their ability to win matches. In a match against Yorkshire, Lindwall bowled Hutton with an inswinger yorker, something he had developed the previous year. During a match against the country champions Surrey at The Oval, Lindwall came across Peter May, who was regarded as the best young English batsman to emerge from the post-war era. Lindwall's first over to May consisted of three inswingers and three outswingers, leaving him perplexed and uncertain about his position at top level cricket. Although Lindwall did not dismiss May, he regarded it as his best over at any level of cricket. The unsettled May was bowled in the following over by Ron Archer. Lindwall's performances saw him regarded as the finest fast bowler of his time.\n\nAfter Australia had been bowled out for 249 in the first innings of the First Test at Trent Bridge, Lindwall's high paced swing yielded 5/57 and cut England down for 144. However, Australia were then bowled out for only 123, leaving England 228 for victory. They were 1/120 with Lindwall wicketless as rain curtailed the match. In the Second Test at Lord's, England had reached 1/177 at stumps on the second day in reply to Australia's 346. The following day, Lindwall yorked rising star Tom Graveney and took 5/66 to restrict England to a lead of 26 runs. In Australia's second innings, Lindwall scored the fastest half-century in Ashes history. He took just 48 minutes to reach the mark, with two sixes and five fours. The match was drawn with Lindwall taking 2/26 in the second innings. Lindwall had helped to reduce England to 3/12 at stumps on the fourth day after removing Don Kenyon and Hutton with the new ball, but defiant batting on the final day saved the English. The Third Test was again drawn due to heavy rain, with Lindwall failing to pass double figures in either innings and taking 2/30 in the first innings. Hassett won the toss for the fourth consecutive Test at Headingley and sent England into bat. In front of his home crowd in Yorkshire, Hutton was yorked second ball from a pacy inswinging yorker. Lindwall produced a display of fast and accurate pace bowling, taking 5/54 from 35 overs as England managed only 169. After Australia took a 97 run lead, Lindwall took 3/104 to help leave the tourists with a victory target of 177. This was not before dour English all rounder Trevor Bailey attempted to stone-wall an Australian victory by batting for over four hours for 38 runs. Along with Miller, the pair took 14 wickets between them, displaying their pivotal role in Australia's bowling attack, especially in the absence of the injured Johnston, who was unavailable for most of the tour. Hutton ordered Bedser and Bailey to bowl leg theory from a long run, sending balls down the leg side to prevent the Australians from scoring. England held on for a draw with Australia 30 runs short when time ran out. The teams met at The Oval for the deciding Test and Australia could manage 275 after winning the toss with Lindwall striking a quickfire 62 noted for an array of off drives to top score and push the total to respectability. Lindwall then took 4/70 but it was not enough to prevent England taking a 31 run lead. Australia collapsed for 162 in the second innings, with the Surrey spin twins of Jim Laker and Tony Lock taking nine wickets between them. This left England 132 to win, something they achieved with eight wickets intact. Lindwall was unable to remove any of the Englishmen.\n\nThe 1–0 loss was Australia's first series defeat since the notorious \"Bodyline\" series twenty years earlier that had motivated Lindwall to take up fast bowling. Despite Australia's troubles, Lindwall maintained his high standards, taking 26 wickets at an average of only 18.84, as well as contributing two fifties for a total of 159 runs at 17.66. For the entire tour, he had taken 85 wickets at 16.40, only one less than in 1948. At 32 years of age, Lindwall still maintained his high pace, but had developed more subtleties and an inswinger. Fingleton, now a journalist said \"One wonders once more at Lindwall's amazing capacity to bowl this ball whenever he feels like it\".\n\nIn November 1953, Lindwall was given employment in Brisbane for the bus and transport company Cobb and Co., but continued to play for New South Wales for the remainder of the 1953–54 season before being dropped for the last match of the domestic season. The move generated criticism from the cricketing community who felt that Lindwall's service merited a more dignified farewell. Lindwall had a mediocre season by his standards, taking only 22 wickets at 30.14. His batting was even more ineffective, scoring only 14 runs in six innings. Such performances led to media speculation that Lindwall was in decline. Lindwall began his career for Queensland at the start of the 1954–55 season and did well enough to retain his place for the First Test of England's Ashes tour. In front of his adopted home crowd, Lindwall returned to form with the bat, scoring an unbeaten 64 as Australia amassed 8/601 after being sent in by Hutton. Lindwall compounded Hutton's match by removing him for four and finished with 3/27 as England were skittled for 190 and forced to follow on. He took two further wickets as England fell to an innings victory. After the match, English paceman Frank Tyson asked Lindwall for advice on how to bowl a more effective bouncer. Lindwall promised that he would show Tyson on their next meeting, which happened to be the Second Test in Sydney. Lindwall bowled Tyson in the first innings and in the second innings, Lindwall gave him a bouncer which skidded towards Tyson's throat. Tyson turned his head and was hit the back of the skull, His batting partner Bill Edrich shouting \"My God, Lindy, you've killed him!\". Tyson was taken to hospital for X-rays and was bowled upon his return by Lindwall. He later said \"thanks so much for showing me the bouncer\". Lindwall took five wickets for the match but Tyson returned to win the low scoring match for England. Lindwall struggled in the Third Test while carrying a leg strain and a bout of hepatitis, taking only 1/111 for the match as England won again. He then pulled a muscle in the Sheffield Shield match and was sidelined as England sealed the series with a third consecutive win. Lindwall returned for the Fifth Test and dismissed Hutton early, before ending with 3/77. The third of his wickets was Bailey, giving Lindwall his 100th wicket in Ashes Tests. England amassed their highest total of the series but Australia managed to hang on for a draw after being forced to follow on. Lindwall ended with 14 wickets at 27.21 for the season, which was below his usual standards as Australia were convincingly defeated 3–1. The critics called for sweeping changes to the team. O'Reilly, Lindwall's mentor, was now a journalist and called for new selectors, claiming that Australia was at its worst for four decades.\n\nLindwall had no intentions to retire. He continued onto the early 1955 tour of the West Indies, the first by an Australian team to the Caribbean. Lindwall was determined to enjoy himself, having recovered from his recent illness. By day, he and Miller battled with the three W's but at night they socialised. However, Lindwall needed respite and dietary discipline in order to completely ward off his hepatitis. He was no longer the reveller that Miller once knew. After Australia had made 9/515, Lindwall took a match total of 6/124, as the hosts were forced to follow on in the First Test at Sabina Park in Kingston, Jamaica. Australia went on to win by nine wickets. The team's travelled to Queen's Park in Trinidad for the Second Test, where the West Indies batted first and made 382. This time Lindwall bowled a long spell of 24.5 overs, and eventually prized out six of the West Indians for the cost of 95 runs. The culmination of this was a spell of 4/16. Australia replied with 9/600, with Lindwall contributing an unbeaten 37 with the bat. Lindwall's match soured in the second innings when he broke down with an achilles tendon problem as the match ended in a draw. Lindwall recovered for the start of the Third Test at Bourda in Georgetown, Guyana. Lindwall had a quiet time in a spin dominated game, taking two wickets in an eight-wicket Australian victory. Australia won the toss and batted in the Fourth Test at Bridgetown, Barbados. Australia had already reached 6/439 when Lindwall came to the crease. In a highly aggressive innings, he reached his fifty in 69 minutes and was unbeaten on 80 at stumps. The next morning, he went on the make his second Test century, scoring 118 with two sixes and 16 fours. It was his second century at Test level, eight years after his first, but showed the same counter-attacking aggression. Lindwall had another quiet match with two wickets in another high scoring draw with both teams amassing more than 500 in the first innings. Lindwall finished the series with four wickets in the Fifth Test in Jamaica as Australia completed a 3–0 series win with another innings triumph. In a high scoring series, Lindwall had taken 20 wicket at 31.85 while also scoring 187 runs at 37.40, a strong all round performance.\n\nLindwall performed steadily during the 1955–56, which was purely domestic. Lindwall was appointed the Queensland captain, and he took 30 wickets at 28.97 and made 383 runs at 32.55. Lindwall was duly selected for the 1956 Ashes tour. Like the rest of the team, Lindwall had a poor tour on a series of dry and underprepared pitches designed to favour the Surrey spin twins of Laker and Lock. Lindwall's tour was further compounded by a recurrence of his groin injury. He took 0/43 in the first innings of the opening Test at Trent Bridge and broke down, being unable to bowl in the second innings. This forced him to miss the Second Test at Lord's, and he returned for a disastrous Third Test at Headingley. Although Lindwall took 3/67 in the first innings, Australia was forced to follow on and fell to its first innings loss since 1938, as Laker and Lock ravaged the Australians. Lindwall took two wickets in the Fourth Test at Old Trafford but the results were the same; Australia suffered another innings defeat in what was known as \"Laker's Test\" – the off-spinner took 19 of the Australian wickets to fall. Lindwall bade farewell to Test cricket in England at The Oval, taking two wickets. Overall, it had been a disappointing tour; Lindwall had been fit for three and a half Tests and managed only seven wickets at 34.14 Lindwall's performance reignited calls for the aging paceman to be axed from the team. Lindwall however, had other ideas.\nFollowing the England tour, the Australians returned home via a tour to the Indian subcontinent. The first stop was Karachi, where Australia played its first ever Test against Pakistan. Lindwall's poor run continued, scoring two and a duck and taking match figures of 1/64 as Australia fell to a nine wicket defeat. The team travelled to Madras for the first of three Tests in India. Lindwall briefly bowled on the first morning without success before succumbing to a severe stomach bug. He took no further part in the first innings and spent the next two days in bed. Lindwall briefly got out of his bed on day three to bat, making only eight as Australia took a 158 run first innings lead. He hauled himself out of bed on the fourth day, and cut through the Indians in three spells, taking 7/43 in an innings victory. \nThe Second Test in Bombay was the only time that Lindwall was to captain Australia in a Test match. Captain Johnson and his deputy Miller were both injured, leaving the bowling depleted. Ron Archer was injured and unavailable as Australia bowled first in extremely hot conditions. The situation worsened throughout the match as pacemen Alan Davidson and Pat Crawford were hindered by stomach bugs and hip strains respectively during the game. Leg spinner Richie Benaud could not bowl for part of the match after being affected by a fever and left arm orthodox spinner John Wilson pulled a muscle midway through his debut. This left Lindwall and batting all rounder Ken Mackay as the only fully fit bowling options. Australia bowled out India for 251, before a strong batting effort led by Neil Harvey and Jim Burke, both of whom made centuries, saw Australia make 7/523. Lindwall contributed a hard-hitting unbeaten 48 at the end. Australia's depleted bowling told in the home side's second innings, as the visitors were only able to prise out five wickets and match ended in a draw, with Indian captain Polly Umrigar batting for six hours for a defiant 78. Lindwall finished the tour with scores of eight and 28 in the Third Test in Madras. In a low scoring match in which all four innings finished under 190, Lindwall took match figures of 3/41 in a 94 run victory. It was a successful series for Lindwall, taking 12 wickets at 16.58 and scoring 92 runs at 30.66.\n\nThe end of the tour represented a changing of the guard in Australian cricket. In their late 30s, Johnson and Miller retired from first-class cricket. In the 1956–57 season, Lindwall took 27 wickets at 23.74 and made 243 runs at 27.00. Having had a successful series in the most recent international fixtures, Lindwall had no reason to expect anything but a continuation of his senior role in the team. Furthermore, having captained the team in the absence of Johnson and Miller, Lindwall was the now the player with the most seniority in terms of leadership. However, when the team for the 1957–58 South African tour was announced, Lindwall's name was omitted altogether. Lindwall heard the news on the radio while he was working, having not being given prior notice. After three consecutive Ashes defeats during Australia's decline in the mid-1950s, the selectors had turned to a radical youth policy in an attempt to reverse the slide. Ian Craig was made youngest Australia's captain at the age of 22, having played only six Tests without securing a regular place in the team. The pacemen selected were Davidson, Ian Meckiff, Ron Gaunt and John Drennan. Davidson had managed only 16 wickets at 34.06 in 12 Tests, while the remaining three had yet to play a Test. While Craig's men defeated South Africa 3–0, Lindwall continued his consistent performances for Queensland in the Sheffield Shield, with 26 wickets at 25.77 and 274 runs at 34.25. During the seasons, Lindwall broke Ernie Jones' record of 209 wickets in Shield competitions in his 54th match in the competition.\n\nDuring the winter of 1958, nearing his 37th birthday, Lindwall stepped up his bid to reclaim his Test place. He committed him to an intense fitness program that included a 5 km daily run followed by vigorous exercises to increase his abdominal and back strength. He set up equipment in his garage. Lindwall was determined to add to his Test tally of 212 wickets, which was just four behind the Australian record of Clarrie Grimmett. He was unmoved by a 6000-pound offer from an English newspaper to cover the 1958–59 Ashes series as a journalist, instead wanting to play in the series.\n\nThe fruit of Lindwall's fitness regime ripened in the early Shield matches of the 1958–59 season and he sent a message to the selectors when England arrived in Brisbane for a tour match before the First Test. Lindwall took 5/57 in the first innings, dismissing Watson, Milton, Colin Cowdrey, Trevor Bailey and Jim Laker. He removed both openers for seven in the second innings before rain curtailed the match, leaving Lindwall with match figures of 7/73. Unfortunately from his point of view, none of the selection committee attended the match. Lindwall was overlooked as the selectors persisted with the winning combination that toured South Africa. His prospects of a recall appeared even more remote after Australia won both of the first two Tests, with Davidson and Meckiff skittling England for 87 in the second innings of the Second Test, taking nine wickets each for the match. Meckiff was injured during the Third Test, leaving him in doubt for the Fourth Test. In the meantime, Lindwall had a Shield match away against South Australia to make a final claim for a recall. The hosts batted first in stifling heat around 42 degrees on a batting pitch, and Lindwall delivered 41 eight-ball overs to take 7/92. Lindwall received a standing ovation for his performances in unfavourable conditions and was greeted by Bradman, the chairman of selectors. Lindwall avoided Bradman's inquiries as to whether he had any injury worries, fearing it would hinder his chances of selection.\n\nLindwall was rewarded with a recall for the Fourth Test at the Adelaide Oval at the age of 37. After scoring 19 in Australia's first innings of 476, Lindwall was restored to his role of opening the bowling, this time with Davidson. He took match figures of 3/136 as Australia took a 3–0 lead. This left Lindwall one wicket short of Grimmett, with Meckiff recovered and ready to resume his place in the Fifth Test in Melbourne. The selectors retained Lindwall for the last match, instead dropping batsman Les Favell to accommodate Meckiff. Australia bowled first and Lindwall equalled Grimmett's record by having Bailey caught in the slips by Davidson. He took two difficult low slips catches but could not take the wicket that would move him ahead of Grimmett, finishing with 1/36. Lindwall opened the bowling in the second innings with 28,000 fans awaiting a new record. He beat Bailey with two outswingers in his first over before bowling him for a duck to move ahead of Grimmett. Lindwall took two further wickets to end with 3/37 as Australia completed a 4–0 series victory. Lindwall finished his resurgent season with 40 wickets at 20.55.\n\nAt the age of 38, Lindwall made his final appearances for Australia during the 1959–60 tour of the Indian subcontinent, which saw three and five Tests against Pakistan and India respectively. The tour was marred by illness and injury, allowing him to play in only half of the Tests. Lindwall played in two Tests against either nation with only moderate results: he took nine wickets at 38.22 and scored 38 runs at 12.66. Lindwall finished with 228 Test wickets, eight wickets behind Alec Bedser's then world record of 236 wickets. In his last Test innings, Lindwall scored ten, which took his tally to 1502 runs, making him the first player to score 1500 runs and take 200 wickets in Test cricket.\n\nLindwall, widely regarded as one of the greatest fast bowlers of all time, bowled with a classical and artistic side-on bowling action. David Frith wrote that \"there was a balance, rhythmic run, a build-up\" and an \"ecstasy\" in his smooth delivery action. Richie Benaud said that Lindwall was \"technically the best fast bowler\" that he ever saw. During the 1950s, Lindwall's action was copied by young children and a number of first-class Australian bowlers, including Ron Gaunt, John Power and Barry Fisher consciously copied his action. Alan Davidson, who succeeded Lindwall as Australia's pace spearhead, labelled him as \"the best fast bowler I ever saw\". Lindwall's childhood hero Harold Larwood rated Dennis Lillee to be equal to Lindwall \"but not ahead of him\". Following Lindwall's tour of England in 1953, his English counterpart Alec Bedser said that Lindwall was \"the best fast bowler I've seen, because of his variety and control\". Lindwall was particularly known for his trademark outswinger, which swung late and at high pace. Fred Trueman believed that Lindwall's ability to simultaneously swing the ball and at such pace and accuracy was matched only by himself and Wes Hall. Frank Tyson wrote that \"he appears to be just jogging his fifteen yards up to the stumps – until the last couple of strides of his approach, when he suddenly explodes into his delivery stride...when he releases the ball, his bowling arm is so low that it borders on the round-arm\". Lindwall's ability to swing the ball at high pace allowed him to repeatedly breach the defences of his opponents; of his 228 Test wickets, 98 were bowled and another 31 were leg before wicket. Lindwall's repertoire was reinforced with a dangerous yorker and bouncer, and changes of pace. As Tyson said \"who is not 'Lindy's bunny' when he slots his yorker in the right spot?\". In 1952 he developed an inswinger and then coupled it with his yorker, which homed into the feet of batsmen at high pace. Denis Compton said that Lindwall had the subtleties of a slow bowler, saying that he \"raised what is considered to be the labouring force of cricket [fast bowling] to an artform with his tactical shrewdness, control and variations\".\nLindwall's emergence after the Second World War along with his new ball partner Keith Miller heralded a new era in cricket. The pair were regarded as the two best fast bowlers of their era, and signalled a change in the cricket landscape, which had been dominated during the interwar period by batsmen. Together the pair formed a new ball fast-bowling combination regarded as one of the best in Test history. During the 1948 tour of England, the hosts had agreed to have a new ball available every 55 overs, and the Australians used this to unleash Lindwall and Miller on the Englishmen with a shiny new ball. The pair often targeted the leading opposition batsmen, particular England's Len Hutton and Denis Compton with large amounts of short-pitched bowling, raising fast bowling to a new standard. Hutton's battles with Lindwall were regarded as one of the key match-ups in Anglo-Australian battles of the time, and Hutton said his opponent had the ability to \"strike at will\". Hutton felt that Lindwall's bouncers were the best that he faced, saying of their accuracy:\"You had to play them or be hit\". Lindwall refused to bowl bouncers at tailenders, saying that \"If the day ever came when I have to bowl bouncers at tailenders then I won't deserve to play for Australia\". When England developed quality pace bowlers of their own in the 1950s, Hutton was captain and he implemented a similar strategy to that executed by Lindwall and Miller. In retirement, Lindwall went on to mentor Lillee, who went on to break the Test world record for wicket-taking.\n\nUpon returning to Australia, Lindwall played in Queensland's final Shield match of the season, before retiring from representative cricket. However, he continued to play for Northern Districts in Brisbane's district competition, as well as making sporadic first class appearances for private teams, which played in New Zealand, the West Indies, Rhodesia, Kenya and Pakistan.\n\nLindwall, Miller and Arthur Morris were the first beneficiaries of the New South Wales Cricket Association players' benefit payment plan, set up to reward New South Welshmen who had played for Australia in Tests. Lindwall was a Queensland selector for five seasons and an Australian selector from 1979–80 to 1982–83. He was given life membership of the Marylebone Cricket Club in 1960, the NSWCA is 1979 and the Queensland Cricket Association in 1991. In 1965, he received an MBE for his services to cricket. In retirement, he and his wife Peggy ran a florist's business after 1965. He and Peggy had two children, a son and a daughter. In the early 1970s, Lindwall mentored upcoming Western Australian paceman Dennis Lillee, who went on to hold the world record for Test wickets. After the Seventh Test in the 1970–71 Ashes series Lillee asked Keith Miller for Lindwall's address as \"He might just be able to teach me how to bowl\". He published two books, \"Flying Stumps\" in 1954 and \"The Challenging Tests\" in 1961. Lindwall died at age 74 at Greenslopes, Brisbane, Queensland. Lindwall was inducted into the Australian Cricket Hall of Fame in 1996 as one of the ten inaugural members. In 2000, he was named in the Australian Cricket Board's Team of the Century as one of its opening bowlers.\n\nLindwall was married to Peg, with one son and one daughter. He died following a stroke aged 74.\n\n"}
{"id": "1856366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856366", "title": "First Nations in Saskatchewan", "text": "First Nations in Saskatchewan\n\nFirst Nations in Saskatchewan constitute many Native Canadian band governments. First Nations ethnicities in the province include the Cree, Assiniboine, Saulteaux, Dene and Dakota. Historically, the Atsina and Blackfoot could also be found at various times.\n\n\"In 1992, the federal and provincial governments signed a historic land claim agreement with Saskatchewan First Nations. Under the Agreement, the First Nations received money to buy land on the open market. As a result, about 761,000 acres have been turned into reserve land and many First Nations continue to invest their settlement dollars in urban areas.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1856370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856370", "title": "Boom Dot Bust", "text": "Boom Dot Bust\n\nBoom Dot Bust is a comedy album recorded by the Firesign Theatre and released in 1999 on Rhino Records. It was a follow-up to the highly praised \"Give Me Immortality or Give Me Death\" from the previous year, continuing a brief resurgence of the foursome's legendary success from 1968-75.\n\nIt chronicles life in the fictional small Midwestern town of Billville (\"The Town That Nature Forgot to Hate\"), where every male resident's first name is some form of William, including mayor William Cudlip P'nisnose (Peter Bergman), who has telekenetic powers; Bill Swatt (David Ossman), coach of the local team the No-neckers, who play some unspecified sport; developer W. Sprawl (Philip Proctor); and family physician Dr. Guillermo Infermo (Phil Austin). Martial-arts film star Charlie Fatt (Austin) is a celebrity guest passing through town, and the nearby Elmertown attempts to grow and compete.\n\nThe \"Bill\" theme is most obviously construed as a reference to then-President Bill Clinton as representative of America, but it also can be taken to include Bill Gates, as a broader allusion to the seeming ubiquity of the name Bill in the news at the time, and because the word \"billionaire\" occurs. The notion of \"Billville\", however, was originally introduced in the song \"Oh! Afghanistan!\" on \"Fighting Clowns\".\n\nThis has also been issued as a DVD-Audio in 5.1 Surround sound. \n"}
{"id": "1856380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856380", "title": "Trimorphic Protennoia", "text": "Trimorphic Protennoia\n\nThe Trimorphic Protennoia is a Sethian Gnostic text from the New Testament apocrypha. The only surviving copy comes from the Nag Hammadi library (Codex XIII).\nI [am] the Thought of the Father, Protennoia, that is, Barbelo, the perfect Glory, and the immeasurable Invisible One who is hidden. I am the Image of the Invisible Spirit, and it is through me that the All took shape, and (I am) the Mother (as well as) the Light which she appointed as Virgin, she who is called 'Meirothea', the incomprehensible Womb, the unrestrainable and immeasurable Voice.\nLike the more familiar \"Apocryphon of John\", to which it is similar, it is thought to be from the mid-second century, and similar in style to the \"Gospel of John\". In particular, there is great similarity with the prologue.\n\nThe name of the text means \"The First Thought which is in Three Forms\" (or \"The Three Forms of the First Thought\"), and appears to have been rewritten at some point to incorporate Sethian beliefs, when originally it was a treatise from another Gnostic sect. Unusually, the text is in the form of an explanation of the nature of cosmology, creation, and a docetic view of Jesus, in the first person. That is, the text is written as if the writer is God, the three-fold first thought. Like most Gnostic writing, the text is extremely mystical, more so for being in the first person.\n\nIn common with mystery religions, there were secret teachings, and not all texts were intended to be read by uninitiated people. This text appears to have been written for a higher level of initiate, part of the way through — stating \"Now behold! I will reveal to you my mysteries, since you are my fellow brethren, and you shall know them all\", although tantalizingly the next five lines are missing and followed by \"I told all of them about my mysteries\". Some speculation has considered the possibility that these missing five lines were always missing, having never originally existed, their absence itself being a teaching of the text.\n"}
{"id": "1856383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856383", "title": "Steve Inskeep", "text": "Steve Inskeep\n\nSteve Inskeep (; born June 16, 1968) is an American journalist who is currently a host of \"Morning Edition\" and \"Up First\" on National Public Radio. Prior to being host of \"Morning Edition\", Inskeep covered the Pentagon, the 2000 presidential campaign of George W. Bush, the U.S. Senate, and the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq, and was host of \"Weekend All Things Considered\".\n\nInskeep is the author of three books: \"Instant City: Life and Death in Karachi\" (2011), \"Jacksonland: President Andrew Jackson, Cherokee Chief John Ross, and a Great American Land Grab\" (2015), and \"Imperfect Union: How Jessie and John Fremont Mapped the West, Invented Celebrity, and Helped Cause the Civil War\" (2020).\n\nInskeep was raised in Carmel, Indiana, graduated from Carmel High School, and graduated from Morehead State University in Morehead, Kentucky, in 1990. His first professional experience in radio was a stint as a sportscaster at WMKY-FM in Morehead.\n\nInskeep was hired by NPR in 1996. His first full-time assignment was the 1996 presidential primary in New Hampshire.\n\nInskeep and his wife, Carolee, have a daughter who was born in 2005.\nIn 2012 the Inskeeps traveled to China and adopted a second child. Steve Inskeep himself was also raised as an adopted child.\n\n"}
{"id": "1856388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856388", "title": "Thomas Lincoln Casey Sr.", "text": "Thomas Lincoln Casey Sr.\n\nThomas Lincoln Casey Sr. (May 10, 1831 – March 25, 1896) was a noted American military and civil engineer of the late 19th century. He served as Chief of Engineers for the United States Army Corps of Engineers and oversaw the completion of the Washington Monument. American engineer Richard Weingardt wrote that Casey was the \"U.S. Army Corps of Engineers’ most visible and celebrated builder of public buildings, monuments, and other significant works in the latter part of the 19th century.\" \n\nCasey was born into a prominent family that lived on Casey Farm in Saunderstown, Rhode Island, for 200 years. This family included an admiral, generals, engineers and scientists. Casey's grandfather Wanton Casey was a member of the Kentish Guards of East Greenwich during the American Revolution.\n\nCasey's father, Major General Silas Casey, led the assault on Chapultepec Castle in the Battle of Chapultepec in the Mexican–American War and also served as a major general in the American Civil War. His brother Silas Casey III was a rear admiral in the United States Navy and commander of the Pacific Fleet from 1901 to 1903. Casey married Emma Weir, the daughter of painter Robert Walter Weir, with who he had two sons.\n\nCasey was born at Madison Barracks in Sackets Harbor, New York. He was appointed by then President James K. Polk to West Point, which he attended from July 1, 1848 to July 1, 1852, when he graduated first in his class of forty-three. Other members of his class included Henry Warner Slocum, David S. Stanley, George Lucas Hartsuff, Charles R. Woods, Alexander McDowell McCook, August Kautz, and George Crook. Upon graduation he was commissioned as a brevet second lieutenant in the Corps of Engineers. From July to August, Casey served at West Point in the Company of Sappers, Miners and Pontoniers. He then worked as assistant engineer during the construction of Fort Delaware and on river and harbor improvements in the Delaware River and Bay from December 2, 1852, to August 28, 1854, during which he was made a second lieutenant on June 22, 1854.\n\nCasey was assistant professor of practical engineering at West Point from August 28, 1854 to August 31, 1859. While professor, he served in the engineer troops from September 6, 1854 to June 27, 1857, was promoted to first lieutenant on December 1, 1856. From June 27, 1857, to August 31, 1859, Casey was principal assistant professor of engineering, and he was in command of a detachment of engineer troops in Washington Territory, from November 21, 1859, to April 1861. During the American Civil War he was stationed at Fort Monroe as an assistant engineer on the staff of the general in command of the Department of Virginia, from June 11 to August 15, 1861, being promoted to captain on August 6.\n\nCasey was then superintending engineer of coastal fortifications in Maine and involved in recruiting engineers for the duration of the war, until July 25, 1866. Casey became a major on October 2, 1863, and was made a brevet lieutenant colonel and colonel on March 13, 1865. During the war, he served with the North Atlantic Squadron during the First Expedition to Fort Fisher from December 8 to 29, 1864. The following year he was on the special board of engineers for work on Willet's Point from April 7 to June 20, and for work on Fort Preble, Fort Scammel, Fort Popham and Fort Knox on the Penobscot River from August 1865 to February 1866.\n\nAfter a leave of absence ending February 25, 1867, Casey served as superintending engineer on the construction of Forts Preble and Scammel from March 1 to November 18, 1867. He was then made assistant to the Chief of Engineers on November 18, 1867, moving to Washington, D.C., where Casey would live most of the rest of his life. He went on inspection tours from April to October 1868, and left the position January 2, 1879. In 1873 Casey was invested as an Officer of the French Legion of Honor in recognition of his work as an engineer.\n\nCasey headed the division the Office of the Chief of Engineers responsible for military engineers, equipment, and fortifications. From March 3, 1877 to April 1, 1881, Casey headed the Office of Public Buildings and Grounds, District of Columbia, overseeing construction of the Potomac aqueduct (March 3, 1877 to August 12, 1882), the last two-thirds of the State, War, and Navy Building (March 3, 1877 to May 31, 1888), and the completion of the Washington Monument (June 25, 1878, to April 4, 1888).\nCasey's most famous project was the completion of the Washington Monument. Construction on the monument had been abandoned 24 years earlier, in 1854, due to technical and managerial problems. In its place stood a 170-foot tall pile of marble which was leaning to the northwest due to an unstable foundation. The structure was a public embarrassment and target of criticism from newspapers across the nation.\n\nCasey was appointed to finish the job in 1878. Casey, then a lieutenant colonel and head of the Office of Public Buildings and Grounds in Washington, D.C., was known for his engineering skills and financial trustworthiness. He developed an ingenious method to balance the foundation as workmen with picks shovels dug from either side in a coordinated effort. Eventually Casey's men replaced half the old foundation, making it 13 feet deeper and over twice as wide.\n\nOver 130 years later, after the monument was damaged by an earthquake in 2011, engineers tasked with repairing the structure consulted Casey's original papers to understand how it was built. The engineers called Casey's work \"brilliant.\"\n\nHe also was on several boards: to study the effect of a dry dock companies work on Portland Harbour in April 1868, to make torpedo cable contracts and examine systems of torpedo defence from May 26 to October 13, 1873, to advise on the ventilation of the United States House of Representatives March 1877 to March 1881, and February 15, 1884, to September 1886, and to advise on public works in the District of Columbia from 1879 to 1888. Casey supervised the construction of a monument over Thomas Jefferson's grave May 2, 1882, to October 20, 1886, one at Washington's Headquarters in Newburgh, New York from June 7, 1883, to October 20, 1884 and one marking the birthplace of Washington, from October 8, 1883, to Oct. 20, 1886. He was made a full colonel on March 12, 1884. \n\nOn April 10, 1884, Casey was made a member of the Lighthouse Board. He then oversaw the construction of the Army Medical Museum and Library beginning April 14, 1885 and the erection of the James A. Garfield Monument from July 2, 1885. Both projects concluded on October 20, 1886. Casey was then made president of the Board of Engineers for Fortifications and other Public Works in New York City and a member of the Board of Visitors to the Engineer School of Application, both from November 1, 1886, to July 22, 1888. From February to March 1888 he was on the board considering bridge construction across the Arthur Kill, and Kill von Kull in New York Harbor.\n\nHe was promoted to brigadier general and assigned as Chief of Engineers on July 6, 1888. While Chief, Casey allocated large amounts of money to harbor and river improvements and reorganized the department. He retired from the Army on May 10, 1895 having reached the mandatory retirement age of 64.\n\nHe oversaw construction on the Thomas Jefferson Building, which houses the Library of Congress, beginning on October 2, 1888; it was nearly completed when he died suddenly on March 25, 1896. Upon his death, responsibility for the project passed to his son, architect Edward Pearce Casey. Another son, Colonel Thomas Lincoln Casey Jr., had a 33-year career in the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and was a noted entomologist.\n\nThomas Lincoln Casey was buried with his father and other family members at the Casey Farm in Saunderstown, Rhode Island.\n\nCasey was elected a member of the National Academy of Sciences in 1890, and made an officer of the Legion of Honor of France for his work on the Washington Monument. Casey was a member of the Society of the Cincinnati, succeeding his father in 1882, and a Companion of the Military Order of the Loyal Legion of the United States until his death, a director of the American Society of Civil Engineers and a member of the New England Historic Genealogical Society.\n\n"}
{"id": "1856389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856389", "title": "Club Atlético Atlanta", "text": "Club Atlético Atlanta\n\nClub Atlético Atlanta is an Argentine sports club from the Villa Crespo district of Buenos Aires. Nicknamed \"Los Bohemios\" (\"The Bohemians\"), Atlanta is mostly known for its football team, although the institution also hosts the practise of boxing, martial arts, handball and roller skating.\nThe squad currently plays at Primera B Nacional, the second division of the Argentine football league system.\n\nThe club was founded on 12 October 1904 in Buenos Aires, Argentina. One source says that the team got its name from an earthquake that had struck Atlanta, Georgia in the United States at the time the founders got together to inaugurate the club. Another version about its foundation states that the name \"Atlanta\" was taken from a navy ship that had arrived in the port of Buenos Aires when Manuel Quintana was proclaimed as President of Argentina. Elias Sanz was named as the club's first president.\n\nThe club's colors, yellow and blue, where chosen from the awnings that decorated the neighborhood's stores in those years. Atlanta's first home field was in Juan B. Alberdi y Escalada Avenue of the Villa Luro neighborhood, but the club would move repeatedly. This constant movement is the reason why the club was nicknamed \"Los Bohemios\", the Bohemians, which has remained the nickname for the club and its supporters.\n\nAt the beginning of 1906, Atlanta was affiliated to the third division of the Argentine Football Association. The team debuted on 22 April 1906, winning its match against Racing. During its first season Atlanta reached the semifinals but then lost to Club Gath & Chaves by 2–0. That same year Atlanta merged with Club Atlético del Oeste, keeping its original name.\n\nAtlanta won the third division championship in 1907, winning its first official title. The team defeated Gimnasia y Esgrima de Buenos Aires by 4–1 on 10 November. The highlight of that season was the thrashing victory over Independiente by 21–1. After winning the title, Atlanta debuted in the second division in 1908, winning the \"Copa Bullrich\" that played at the same time than regular season. The squad defeated Instituto Americano from Adrogué by 2–1 at the final, played on 8 September.\n\nThe club is often associated with the Jewish community because of the historical support of Jews in the area of Villa Crespo; notable Jews have also been part of the team's administration and squad (e.g. Fabian Lagman and Jaime José Rotman).\n\nAtlanta's main rival is Chacarita Juniors. The rivalry originated in 1922, when Chacarita established very close to Atlanta's home and stadium. The \"Funebrero\" stayed there until 1930 when they moved to San Martín, in Greater Buenos Aires, where they have remained since, although the rivalry with Atlanta never ended.\n\nThe first official match between both teams was on 13 November 1927 and Chacarita won 2–0. The first time Atlanta defeated the \"Funebrero\" was in 1930, with a score of 1–0. In the professional era, the first contest between Atlanta and Chacarita was on 4 June 1931, with Atlanta winning 3–1.\n\nAtlanta and Chacarita have played each other 126 times: Atlanta have won 34, scoring 144 goals. On the other side, Chacarita have won 54 games and scored 191 goals. They have drawn 38 times. The biggest win achieved by Atlanta was in 1944, when they defeated Chacarita 7–1.\n\nSantiago Rico played the most games for Atlanta with 16 appearances, while Luciano Agnolín is the top scorer with 7 goals.\n\nThe team stadium, \"Don León Kolbovsky\", is located in Villa Crespo neighborhood, in the city of Buenos Aires. It was inaugurated in 1960 during a match between Atlanta and Argentinos Juniors. Its name is a tribute to the man who presided the club when the stadium began to be built and has a capacity of 34,000. It is also known as the \"Wooden Monumental\", in reference to River Plate's Estadio Monumental, the biggest and with the largest capacity in Argentina.\n\nIn February 2005, the Government of Buenos Aires closed the stadium due to its poor sanitary and security conditions. In January 2006 the stadium was partially re-opened but it was closed again a month later. The same year Atlanta signed a contract with a company to build two concrete grandstands which would replace the wooden one that still stood there. Once the restructuring was finished, Atlanta could play its home games in its own stadium after three years. The León Kolbovsky was re-opened in March 2009, when Atlanta defeated Deportivo Español 3–1 with 6,000 supporters in the new concrete grandstands.\n\nSince the team lacked an official home stadium for its first six decades, it was nicknamed \"\"Los Bohemios\"\", as the team would wander from place to place forced to play \"home\" games in other team's stadiums. The label is also associated with the fans, or any supporter of the team. The singular form, \"El Bohemio\", is also accepted and can be used when referring to the organization, or a particular player or the actual team.\n\nOne of the most curious cases in the history of the club refers to a dog, called \"Napoleón\" (whose name had been taken from the Emperor of the French) who would become a club legend. The dog had become famous in 1936, when before each match disputed by Atlanta, Napoleón used to show his skills with the ball to the spectators at the Villa Crespo stadium. The animal's awesome ability was claimed even by rival supporters. The dog also barked fiercely when the rival team appeared on the field, and happily wagged his tail when Atlanta players appeared on the field. \"Once the referee started the match, Napoleón took his place outside the field and followed the movements of the ball. During a corner kick, the dog always stood behind the goal\"\nNapoleón had been adopted by Atlanta players after a match against Talleres played in Remedios de Escalada: with the dog on the field, Atlanta scored 4 goals in the second half after being 5–1 down at half-time (when Napoleón could not stay with the team on field). The match finally ended with a 5–5 tie and therefore the dog was adopted by Atlanta players as their mascot, because they considered the dog had brought good luck to the team.\n\nOn 6 April 1938, a group of Atlanta supporters met at the house of Napoleón's owner, Francisco Belón. They were making the arrangements to take Napoleón to La Plata for the match Atlanta had to play against Estudiantes. The front door of the house was left opened and the dog ran into the street, and was killed by a car. The newspaper \"Ahora\" titled the next day: \"Napoleón, a true ace of \"Porteño\" football, passed away\"\n\nNapoleón was not buried, but his body was embalmed and kept by his owner, Francisco Belón, in the house of Villa Crespo where he lived. On October 2004, when Atlanta celebrated its 100th anniversary, the embalmed body of Napoléon came back to the stadium (now called \"León Kolvobsky\") being exhibited by Francisco Belón's son, Osvaldo. The dog was one of the most loved symbols of the club, along with human celebrities as Osvaldo Miranda (proclaimed as \"the most famous Atlanta fan\" by the institution that evening) and Carlos Griguol.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1856390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856390", "title": "Vevi", "text": "Vevi\n\nVevi (, before 1926: Μπάνιτσα - \"Banitsa\", Macedonian and , \"Banica\" or \"Banitsa\") is a village located in the municipal unit of Meliti in Florina regional unit, Macedonia, Greece. The village is passed by two national roads which lead to Thessaloniki, Florina, Amyntaio, and Kozani. Additionally, it has a railway station on the line between Florina and Thessaloniki.\n\nIt is mainly a farming community and is the site of the Achlada, the Vevi lignite mines from Upper Miocene.\n\nThe city dates back to Roman times. Archeological finds from this period, such as the marble torso of a male statue, are housed at the Archaeological Museum of Florina.\n\nThe local church St. Nicolas was built and painted in 1460. There were 132 Christian households in the village in the first half of the 17th century. In 1845 the Russian slavist Victor Grigorovich recorded \"Banci\" as mainly Bulgarian village.\n\nAccording to local tradition, the settlers who laid the foundation of the modern village included various people from the region such as Greeks, Bulgarians, Turks, etc. There were two Bulgarian schools in the beginning of 20th century.\n\nIn 1913, with the conditions of the Treaty of Bucharest, when this part of Macedonia became part of Greece, and after the Balkan Wars, a lot of locals emigrated to Bulgaria. The village was renamed Vevi in 1926. Following World War II as well as the Greek Civil War it saw more exodus on the part of the town's non-Greek inhabitants.\n\nA 1993 survey of the area found that much of the population over the age of 30 were Macedonian speakers.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1856393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856393", "title": "Grand Buffet", "text": "Grand Buffet\n\nGrand Buffet is a hip-hop funk duo from Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, made up of Jackson O'Connell-Barlow (stage names: Iguanadon, Grape-a-Don, Plaps, Nate Kukla, and Mr. Pennsylvania) and Jarrod Weeks (stage names: M-Dog, Lord Grunge, Viceroy, Matt Kukla, Fred Durts). Their music is a unique brand of humorous, often satirical rap. They have toured several times with notable artists such as Gil Mantera's Party Dream, Sage Francis, Of Montreal, Cex, Sole, Magnolia Electric Co., Streetlight Manifesto, and the late Wesley Willis. They have also toured the United States and Europe extensively. In 2005 they finished a European tour with Sage Francis, and an American Tour with Of Montreal and MGMT in 2006. They toured with Girl Talk in 2008, and Third Eye Blind in 2009.\n\nGrand Buffet has been together since 1996, meeting at Hampton High School in Allison Park. They have released two self-produced, full-length LP's, \"Scrooge McRock\" (1997, out of print) and \"Sparkle Classic\" (2000), as well as a \"Trilogy of Terror\": 3 EP's - \"Undercover Angels\" (2002), \"Cigarette Beach\" (2002), and \"Pittsburgh Hearts\" (2003). Each of these releases has included different names for Jackson and Jarrod in the liner notes; the stage names are listed chronologically from \"Scrooge McRock\" to \"Cigarette Beach\" - \"Pittsburgh Hearts\" attributed them by their real names. \nTheir MySpace account also lists them as Viceroy (Jarrod) and Plaps (Jackson). There was a third member, a DJ named G-Rude (Dan), who was credited on \"Scrooge McRock\" but no subsequent albumsthus the liner art for both \"Scrooge McRock\" and \"Dicer\" contains three member's pictures instead of two. In 2004, they released a full-length CD of outtakes, rarities, and radio performances called \"\". In 2005, they released a greatest hits collection, \"Five Years of Fireworks\", which included a new track and a bonus DVD filled with music videos, outtakes, backstage antics, and live material. A sequel to \"Dicer\" was announced in 2005, and Weeks mentioned possibly expanding it into an annual release. It is notable to mention that they once again toured with a DJ for some shows in 2005 and 2006; a DJ from Texas, DJ Jester the Filipino Fist, who has toured with Kid Koala.\n\nOn May 8, 2007, \"\"The Haunted Fucking Gazebo\"\" EP and on January 8, 2008, \"\"King Vision\"\" were released, both on Fighting Records.\n\nThe band has distanced itself from \"Scrooge McRock\" in at least one interview, dismissing it as more of a retrospectively-viewed collection of demos than a proper album. For the following two years, they worked on material for an album that was to be called \"Peter Weller\" (after the actor), which ultimately was never released, culminating in an abandonment in 1999. (Several tracks from these sessions were released on \"Dicer\"). \"Sparkle Classic\" is the first album they consider part of the official discography.\n\nGrand Buffet have hinted at a children's album entitled \"Gorilla and Fox\", but there has been no official release date announced.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1856394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856394", "title": "Helicoprion", "text": "Helicoprion\n\nHelicoprion is a genus of extinct, shark-like eugeneodontid holocephalid fish. Almost all fossil specimens are of spirally arranged clusters of the individuals' teeth, called \"tooth whorls\"— the cartilaginous skull, spine, and other structural elements have not been preserved in the fossil record, leaving scientists to make educated guesses as to its anatomy and behavior. \"Helicoprion\" lived in the oceans of the early Permian , with species known from North America, Eastern Europe, Asia, and Australia. The closest living relatives of \"Helicoprion\" (and other eugeneodontids) are the chimaeras.\n\nIn 2011, a tooth whorl from a \"Helicoprion\" was discovered in the Phosphoria site in Idaho. The tooth whorl measured in length. Comparisons with other\" Helicoprion\" specimens show that the animal that sported this whorl would have been in length, and another, even bigger tooth whorl that was discovered in 1980s (but was not published until 2013) which the discoverers dubbed IMNH 49382 or \"Boise\" was discovered at the same site. The whorl is incomplete, but in life it would have been long and would have belonged to an animal that possibly exceeded in length, making \"Helicoprion\" the largest known eugeneodont.\n\nUntil 2013, the only known fossils of this genus on record were their teeth, which were arranged in a \"tooth-whorl\" strongly reminiscent of a circular saw. As the skeletons of chondrichthyid fish are made of cartilage, including those of \"Helicoprion\" and other eugeneodonts, the entire body disintegrates once it begins to decay, unless exceptional circumstances preserve it. The tooth-whorl was not realized to be in the lower jaw until the discovery of the skull of a related genus of eugeneodont, \"Ornithoprion\". The tooth-whorl represented all the teeth produced by that individual in the lower jaw; as the individual grew, the older, smaller teeth were moved into the center of the whorl by larger, newer teeth appearing. Models of the \"Helicoprion\" tooth-whorl have been made. In the 1994 book \"Planet Ocean: A Story of Life, the Sea, and Dancing to the Fossil Record\", author Brad Matsen and artist Ray Troll describe and depict an example of such a model. They proposed that no teeth were present in the animal's upper jaw besides the crushing teeth for the whorl to cut against. The two envision the living animal to have a long and very narrow skull, creating a long nose akin to the modern-day goblin shark. According to their studies, the fossils that have been found are essentially a growth ring, as each set of new teeth pushes the previous set into the whorl.\n\nFor over a century, whether the tooth-whorl was situated in the lower jaw wasn't certain. Older reconstructions placed the whorl in the front of the lower jaw. A 2008 reconstruction, created by Mary Parrish under the direction of Robert Purdy, Victor Springer, and Matt Carrano for the Smithsonian, places the whorl deeper into the throat, although other studies did not accept this conclusion. A 2013 study based on new data places the tooth-whorl at the back of the jaw, where the tooth-whorl occupied the entire mandibular arch.\n\nIn his 1939 article, author Harry E. Wheeler describes another \"Helicoprion\" fossil, based on the species \"H. sierrensis\", collected by J. H. Menke, that resides at the University of Nevada, W. M. Keck Earth Science and Mineral Engineering Museum. This fossil is number 1002 and is currently on display in case 62. The mouth consists of a whorl separated into three and a quarter volutions. The biggest diameter is about . The whorls have a separation of about in the first volution, and it goes to about at the largest whorl displayed. The specimen has a total of about 32 teeth in the first volution, 36 in the second, and 41 in the last. The teeth at the end of the first volution are about long and are about width reaching about long and 9.5 wide at the end of the third. The teeth are symmetrically opposed to one another.\n\nAdditionally, other extinct fish, such as Onychodontiformes, have analogous tooth-whorls at the front of the jaw, suggesting that such whorls are not as substantial of an impediment to swimming as suggested in Purdy's hypothesis. While no complete skulls of \"Helicoprion\" have been officially described, the fact that related species of chondrichthyids had long, pointed snouts suggests that \"Helicoprion\" did, as well.\n\n\"Helicoprion\" species proliferated greatly during the early Permian. Fossils have been found in the Ural Mountains, Western Australia, China (together with the related genera \"Sinohelicoprion\" and \"Hunanohelicoprion\"), and Western North America, including the Canadian Arctic, Mexico, Idaho, Nevada, Wyoming, Texas, Utah, and California. More than 50% of \"Helicoprion\" specimens are known from Idaho, with an additional 25% being found in the Ural Mountains. Due to the fossils' locations, the various species of \"Helicoprion\" may have lived off the southwestern coast of Gondwana, and later, Pangaea.\n\n\"Helicoprion\" was first described by Alexander Karpinsky in 1899 from a fossil found in Artinskian age limestones of the Ural Mountains. Karpinsky named the type species \"Helicoprion bessonowi\"; Oliver Perry Hay originally described the species. This species can be differentiated from others by a short and narrowly spaced tooth whorl, backward-directed tooth tips, obtusely-angled tooth bases, and a consistently narrow whorl shaft.\n\nOne of two \"Helicoprion\" species described by Wheeler in 1939, \"H. nevadensis\", is based on a single partial fossil found in 1929 by Elbert A Stuart. It was reported as having originated from the Rochester Trachyte deposits, which Wheeler considered to be of Artinskian age. However, the Rochester Trachyte is in fact Triassic, and \"H. nevadensis\" likely did not originate in the Rochester Trachyte, thus rendering its true age unknown. Wheeler differentiated \"H. nevadensis\" from \"H. bessonowi\" by its pattern of whorl expansion and tooth height, but Leif Tapanila and Jesse Pruitt showed in 2013 that these were consistent with \"H. bessonowi\" at the developmental stage that the specimen represents.\n\nBased on isolated teeth and partial whorls found on the island of Spitsbergen, Norway, \"H. svalis\" was described by Stanisław Siedlecki in 1970. The type specimen, a very large whorl, was noted for its narrow teeth that apparently are not in contact with each other. However, this seems to be a consequence of only the central part of the teeth being preserved, according to Tapanila and Pruitt. Since the whorl shaft is partially obscured, \"H. svalis\" cannot be definitely assigned to \"H. bessonowi\", but it closely approaches the latter species in many aspects of its proportions. With a maximum volution height of , \"H. svalis\" is similar in size to the largest \"H. bessonowi\", which has a maximum volution height of .\n\n\"H. davisii\" was described initially from a series of 15 teeth found in Western Australia. They were described by H. Woodward in 1886 as a species of \"Edestus\", \"E. davisii\". Upon naming \"H. bessonowi\", Karpinsky also reassigned this species to \"Helicoprion\", an identification subsequently supported by the discovery of two additional and more complete tooth whorls in Western Australia. The species is characterized by a tall and widely spaced tooth whorl, with these becoming more pronounced with age. The teeth also noticeably curve forwards. During the Kungurian and Roadian, this species was very common worldwide.\n\"H. ferrieri\" was originally described as a species of the genus \"Lissoprion\" in 1907, from fossils found in the Phosphoria Formation of Idaho. An additional specimen, tentatively referred to \"H. ferrieri\", was described in 1955. That specimen was found in Wolfcampian-age quartzites exposed on China Mountain, six miles southeast of Contact, Nevada. The 100-mm-wide fossil consists of one and three-quarters whorls and about 61 preserved teeth. Due to weathering, the rest of the fossil was lost and the preserved section is distorted from slippage of the host rock. While initially differentiated using the metrics of tooth angle and height, Tapanila and Pruitt considered these characteristics to be intraspecifically variable, reassigning \"H. ferrieri\" to \"H. davisii\".\n\n\"H. jingmenense\" was described in 2007 from a nearly complete tooth whorl with four and a third volutions (part and counterpart) found in the Lower Permian Qixia Formation of Hubei Province, China. It was discovered during road construction. The specimen is very similar to \"H. ferrieri\" and \"H. bessonowi\", though it differs from the former by having teeth with a wider cutting blade, and a shorter compound root, and differs from the latter by having fewer than 39 teeth per volution. Tapanila and Pruitt argued that the specimen was partially obscured by the surrounding matrix, resulting in an underestimation of tooth height. Taking into account intraspecific variation, they synonymized it with \"H. davisii\".\n\n\"H. ergassaminon\", the rarer species from the Phosphoria Formation, was described in detail within a 1966 monograph by Svend Erik Bendix-Almgreen. The holotype specimen (\"Idaho 5\"), now lost, bore breakage and wear marks indicative of its usage in feeding. Several referred specimens exist, none of which show wear marks. This species is roughly intermediate between the two contrasting forms represented by \"H. bessonowi\" and \"H. davisii\", having tall but narrowly-spaced teeth. Its teeth are also gently curved, with obtusely-angled tooth bases.\n\nSeveral large whorls are difficult to assign to any particular species group, \"H. svalis\" among them. IMNH 14095, a specimen from Idaho, appears to be similar to \"H. bessonowi\", but it has unique flange-like edges on the apices of its teeth. IMNH 49382, also from Idaho, has the largest known whorl diameter at for the outermost volution (the only one preserved), but it is incompletely preserved and still partially buried.\n\n\"H. mexicanus\", named by F.K.G. Müllerreid in 1945 and supposedly distinguished by its tooth ornamentation, has a holotype that is currently missing, but its morphology was similar to IMNH 49382. In the absence of other material, it is currently a \"nomen dubium\". Vladimir Obruchev described \"H. karpinskii\" from two teeth in 1953. He provided no distinguishing traits for this species, and thus it must be regarded as a \"nomen nudum\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1856396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856396", "title": "T-groups", "text": "T-groups\n\nA T-group or training group (sometimes also referred to as sensitivity-training group, human relations training group or encounter group) is a form of group training where participants (typically between eight and fifteen people) learn about themselves (and about small group processes in general) through their interaction with each other. They use feedback, problem solving, and role play to gain insights into themselves, others, and groups.\n\nExperimental studies have been undertaken with the aim of determining what effects, if any, participating in a T-group has on the participants. For example, a 1975 article by Nancy E. Adler and Daniel Goleman concluded that \"Students who had participated in a T-group showed significantly more change toward their selected goal than those who had not.\" Carl Rogers described sensitivity groups as \"...the most significant social invention of the century\".\n\nThe concept of encounter as \"a meeting of two, eye to eye, face to face,\" was articulated by J.L. Moreno in Vienna in 1914–15, in his \"Einladung zu einer Begegnung\" (\"Invitation to an Encounter\"), maturing into his psychodrama therapy. It was pioneered in the mid-1940s by Moreno's protege Kurt Lewin and his colleagues as a method of learning about human behavior in what became the National Training Laboratories (also known as the NTL Institute) that was created by the Office of Naval Research and the National Education Association in Bethel, Maine, in 1947. First conceived as a research technique with a goal to change the standards, attitudes and behavior of individuals, the T-group evolved into educational and treatment schemes for non-psychiatric patient people.\n\nA T-group meeting does not have an explicit agenda, structure, or expressed goal. Under the guidance of a facilitator, the participants are encouraged to share emotional reactions (for example, anger, fear, warmth, or envy) that arise in response to their fellow participants' actions and statements. The emphasis is on sharing emotions, as opposed to judgments or conclusions. In this way, T-group participants can learn how their words and actions trigger emotional responses in the people they communicate with.\n\nTask groups focus on the here and now, involving learning through doing, activity and processing; and involves daily living skills and work skills.\n\nEvaluative groups focus on evaluating the skills, behaviors, needs, and functions of a group and is the first step in a group process.\n\nTopical discussion groups focus on a common topic that can be shared by all the members to encourage involvement.\n\nDevelopmental groups encourage the members to develop sequentially organized social interaction skills with the other members. \n\nSelf-help groups are supportive and educational, and focus on personal growth around a single major life disrupting problem (for example, Alcoholics Anonymous).\n\nSupport groups focus on helping others in a crisis and continue to do so until the crisis is gone and is usually before the self-help group.\n\nAdvocacy groups focus on changing others or changing the system, rather than changing one's self: \"getting one from point A to point B\".\n\nPsychotherapy groups focus on helping individuals in the present that have past conflicts which affect their behavior.\n\nMany varieties of T-groups have existed, from the initial T-groups that focused on small group dynamics, to those that aim more explicitly to develop self-understanding and interpersonal communication. Industry also widely used T-groups, particularly in the 1960s and 1970s, and in many ways these were predecessors of current team building and corporate culture initiatives.\n\nA current T-group version that addresses the issue of openness is the \"Tough Stuff™\" workshop of Robert P. Crosby and his associates. Crosby trainers carefully focus the group on their experience of their immediate interactions and group dynamics, and away from openness in the form of personal stories. Applying the behavioral communication model of John L. Wallen, The Interpersonal Gap, the participants are given a structure for talking about and learning from their interactions. The Crosby T-group also puts much of the feedback task in the hands of the participants. Using Wallen's model and behavioral skills, the participants are encouraged to give and receive feedback throughout the process, both while they are in the T-group, and in other reflective and skill building activities. Crosby was first a T-group participant in 1953, and was mentored by Lewin associates Ken Benne, Leland Bradford and Ronald Lippitt. Crosby, worked closely with Mr. Wallen from 1968 to 1975, co-leading several National Training Laboratories T-groups during that time. When Crosby founded the Leadership Institute of Seattle (LIOS) Applied Behavioral Science Graduate Program he made T-groups a core requirement of the curriculum, and he did the same when founding and leading the ALCOA Corporate leadership program from 1990 to 2005. Throughout Crosby's Organization Development career he has used T-groups in numerous business culture change and performance improvement initiatives, most famously during the PECO Nuclear turnaround following the shutdown of Peach Bottom Atomic Power Station for human performance issues by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission in 1987. Crosby and his associates still lead T-groups in public workshops and in businesses.\n\nAnother recent version of the T-groups is the Appreciative Inquiry Human Interaction Laboratory, which focusses on strengths-based learning processes. It is a variation of the NTL T-groups, since it shares the values and experiential learning model with the classic T-groups.\n\nA commercialized strand of the encounter group movement developed into large-group awareness training. Other variations have included the nude encounter group, where participants are naked, and the marathon encounter group, where participants carry on for 24 hours or longer without sleep.\n\nThis type of training is controversial as the behaviors it encourages are often self-disclosure and openness, which many people believe some organizations ultimately punish. The feedback used in this type of training can be highly personal, hence it must be given by highly trained observers (trainers).. In the NTL-tradition, the T-group is always embedded in a Human Interaction Laboratory, with reflection time and theory sessions. In these sessions, the participants have the opportunity to make sense of what's happening in the T-group.\n\nEncounter groups are also controversial because of scientific claims that they can cause serious and lasting psychological damage. One 1971 study found that 9% of normal college students participating in an encounter group developed psychological problems lasting at least six months after their experience. The most dangerous groups had authoritarian and charismatic leaders who used vicious emotional attacks and public humiliation to try to break participants. However, a peer-reviewed review of studies published in 1975 concluded that \"No study yet published provides a basis for concluding that adverse effects arising from sensitivity training are any more frequent than adverse effects arising in equivalent populations not in groups\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1856402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856402", "title": "Sydney Carton", "text": "Sydney Carton\n\nSydney Carton is a central character in Charles Dickens' 1859 novel \"A Tale of Two Cities\". He is a shrewd young Englishman educated at Shrewsbury School, and sometime junior to his fellow barrister Stryver. Carton is portrayed as a brilliant but depressed and cynical drunkard who is full of self-loathing because of what he sees as his wasted life. He feels a deep unrequited love for Lucie Manette, who nevertheless inspires him to try to be a better person. Near the end of the novel, Carton manages to change places with her husband Charles Darnay hours before Darnay's scheduled execution in France, giving his life for Lucie's sake. Later, Lucie and Charles name their first son after Carton.\n\nSydney Carton is introduced into the novel \"A Tale of Two Cities\" as a young, sloppy, but brilliant barrister who bears an uncanny likeness to Charles Darnay (whose original name is Charles St. Evrémonde), the prisoner he is helping to defend. He uses his great skill to save Darnay from execution for espionage against England, though he lets his colleague Stryver do all the talking in court, and Stryver takes all the glory for saving Darnay. Carton invites Darnay to accompany him to a tavern immediately upon the acquitted prisoner's release. During a late supper in which Darnay enjoys a hearty non-prison meal and Carton drinks several bottles of wine, Carton admits that he both likes and hates his client, as he considers him as everything that he should be but is not. \"I am a disappointed drudge, sir,\" Carton explains. \"I care for no man on earth, and no man on earth cares for me.\"\n\nIn a later conversation with his partner Mr. Stryver, the narrator calls Carton a \"jackal\" because while Mr. Stryver very deftly presents each case and gains all the credit, it is Carton's legal acumen which helps them win, referencing how jackals help lions with kills while the lions take all the glory. Several scenes make it clear that Carton is an alcoholic filled with cynicism and self-hatred due to what he sees as his wasted and empty life.\n\nLucie Manette and Charles Darnay eventually marry, increasing Carton's self-loathing all the more, as he had developed an unrequited love for her. In an uncharacteristic fit of sincerity, he respectfully admits his feelings to Lucie, saying that though he considers himself unworthy of her affection, she has nevertheless inspired him to try to make something of his life. He ends the conversation by saying that he will never speak of it again, asks her to keep his confession secret and pledges to do anything for her or for anybody she loves. He is able to create and maintain a friendship with Darnay, and becomes a welcome, although infrequent, guest at the Darnay house. After the birth of Charles and Lucie's daughter, Carton becomes the child's favorite and remains so as she grows up.\n\nSeveral years later, Darnay returns to France to assist a former servant who had been jailed during the French Revolution. However, this is the time of the Reign of Terror, and Darnay is arrested and eventually sentenced to death for being an aristocrat, although he had long before cut off relations with the Evremonde family. Carton follows Lucie and Dr. Manette to France and, in a wine shop, overhears Madame Defarge planning to denounce Lucie and her father on the same day that Darnay is to be executed (Lucie and her father would certainly mourn Darnay's death, and under the new laws of the Republic it is a criminal offense punishable by death to mourn the death of an \"aristo\"). This spurs Carton into action; he arranges for Lucie, her daughter and her father to escape Paris, and just hours before Darnay's scheduled execution by guillotine Carton smuggles himself into Darnay's prison cell, renders Darnay unconscious and trades places with him, both for the sake of their friendship and for Lucie. Then he arranges to have Darnay carried to Lucie's waiting carriage while he stoically prepares to face the guillotine.\n\nCarton's last meaningful action in his life is to give strength and comfort to a seamstress also about to be executed.\n\nCarton's final words - or rather, what Dickens suggests could have been his final words, had he been given the time to verbalize his final thoughts - are among the most famous in English literature:\n\nLater, Lucie and Charles have a son, whom they name Sydney, who will follow his namesake into the law profession to both make his name \"illustrious\", eventually remove the stains on Sydney Carton's name and reputation and pass on to his own children the story of Sydney Carton's sacrifice \"in a tender and faltering voice.\"\n\nOn film and television, Sydney Carton has been portrayed by:\n\nOn radio, he has been portrayed by Orson Welles, Charles Dance and Paul Ready.\n"}
{"id": "1856409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856409", "title": "Ancient Semitic religion", "text": "Ancient Semitic religion\n\nAncient Semitic religion encompasses the polytheistic religions of the Semitic peoples from the ancient Near East and Northeast Africa. Since the term \"Semitic\" itself represents a rough category when referring to cultures, as opposed to languages, the definitive bounds of the term \"ancient Semitic religion\" are only approximate.\n\nSemitic traditions and their pantheons fall into regional categories: Canaanite religions of the Levant, the Sumerian tradition–inspired Assyro-Babylonian religion of Mesopotamia, the Ancient Hebrew religion of the \nIsraelites, and Arabian polytheism. Semitic polytheism possibly transitioned into Abrahamic monotheism by way of the god El, whose name \"El\", or \"elah\" אלה is a word for \"god\" in Hebrew, cognate to Arabic \"ʼilāh\" إله, and its definitive pronoun form الله \"Allāh\", \"(The) God\".\n\nAbbreviations: Ac. Akkadian-Babylonian; Ug. Ugaritic; Pp. Phoenician; Ib. Hebrew; Ar. Arabic; OSA Old South Arabian; Et. Ethiopic\n\n\nWhen the five planets were identified, they were associated with the sun and moon and connected with the chief gods of the Babylonian pantheon. A bilingual list in the British Museum arranges the sevenfold planetary group in the following order:\n\nThe religion of the Assyrian Empire (sometimes called Ashurism) centered on Ashur, patron deity of the city of Assur, and Ishtar, patroness of Nineveh. The last positively recorded worship of Ashur and other Assyrian gods dates back to the 3rd century AD.\n\nAshur, the patron deity of the eponymous capital from the Late Bronze Age, was in constant rivalry with the patron deity of Babylon, Marduk. In Assyria, Ashur eventually superseded Marduk, even becoming the husband of Ishtar.\n\nThe major Assyro-Babylonian and Akkadian gods were:\nMajor Assyro-Babylonian demons and heroes were:\n\nThe Canaanite religion was practiced by people living in the ancient Levant throughout the Bronze Age and Iron Age. Until the excavation (1928 onwards) of the city of Ras Shamra (also known as Ugarit) in Northern Syria and the discovery of its Bronze Age archive of clay tablet alphabetic cuneiform texts, scholars knew little about Canaanite religious practice. Papyrus seems to have been the preferred writing material for scribes at the time. Unlike the papyrus documents found in Egypt, ancient papyri in the Levant have often simply decayed from exposure to the humid Mediterranean climate. As a result, the accounts in the Bible became the primary sources of information on ancient Canaanite religion. Supplementing the Biblical accounts, several secondary and tertiary Greek sources have survived, including Lucian of Samosata's treatise \"De Dea Syria\" (The Syrian Goddess, 2nd century CE), fragments of the \"Phoenician History\" of Sanchuniathon as preserved by Philo of Byblos (c. 64 – 141 CE), and the writings of Damascius ( 458 – after 538). Recent study of the Ugaritic material has uncovered additional information about the religion, supplemented by inscriptions from the Levant and Tel Mardikh archive (excavated in the early 1960s).\n\nLike other peoples of the ancient Near East, the Canaanites were polytheistic, with families typically focusing worship on ancestral household gods and goddesses while acknowledging the existence of other deities such as Baal, Anath, and El. Kings also played an important religious role and in certain ceremonies, such as the sacred marriage of the New Year Festival; Canaanites may have revered their kings as gods.\n\nAccording to the pantheon, known in Ugarit as 'ilhm (Elohim) or the children of El (compare the Biblical \"sons of God\"), the creator deity called El, fathered the other deities. In the Greek sources he was married to Beruth (Beirut, the city). The pantheon was supposedly obtained by Philo of Byblos from Sanchuniathon of Berythus (Beirut). The marriage of the deity with the city seems to have biblical parallels with the stories that link Melkart with Tyre, Yahweh with Jerusalem, and Tanit and Baal Hammon with Carthage. El Elyon is mentioned (as \"God Most High\") in Genesis 14.18–19 as the God whose priest was Melchizedek, king of Salem.\n\nPhilo states that the union of El Elyon and his consort resulted in the birth of Uranus and Ge (Greek names for \"Heaven\" and \"Earth\"). This closely parallels the opening verse of the Hebrew Bible, Genesis 1:1—\"In the beginning God (Elohim) created the Heavens (\"Shemayim\") and the Earth\" (\"Eretz\"). It also parallels the story of the Babylonian Anunaki gods.\n\nThe \"Enuma Elish\" has been compared to the Genesis creation narrative. Some writers trace the story of Esther to Babylonian roots.\n\nEl Elyon also appears in Balaam's story in Numbers and in Moses song in Deuteronomy 32.8. The Masoretic Texts suggest:\n\nWhen the Most High ('Elyōn) divided to the nations their inheritance, he separated the sons of man (Ādām); he set the bounds of the people according to the number of the sons of Israel.\n\nRather than \"sons of Israel\", the Septuagint, the Greek Old Testament, suggests the \"angelōn theou,\" or \"angels of God\", and a few versions even have \"huiōn theou\" (sons of God). The Dead Sea Scrolls version of this suggests that there were in fact 70 sons of the Most High God sent to rule over the 70 nations of the Earth. This idea of the 70 nations of Earth, each ruled over by one of the Elohim (sons of God), is also found in Ugaritic texts. The Arslan Tash inscription suggests that each of the 70 sons of El Elyon was bound to their people by a covenant. Thus, Crossan translates:\n\n<poem>The Eternal One ('Olam) has made a covenant oath with us,\nAsherah has made (a pact) with us.\nAnd all the sons of El,\nAnd the great council of all the Holy Ones (Qedesh).\nWith oaths of Heaven and Ancient Earth.</poem>\n\n"}
{"id": "1856419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856419", "title": "Historic mills of the Atlanta area", "text": "Historic mills of the Atlanta area\n\nThere were several historic mills around the metro Atlanta area, for which many of its current-day roads are still named. Most of the mills date back to the 1820s and 1830s, and were built along the area's many streams. The locations of many of these mills are shown on a map of 1875 showing U. S. military operations around Atlanta in 1864. This map is now located in the U. S. Library of Congress but can be seen on the webpage linked here.\n\nAkers Mill was located on Rottenwood Creek near Vinings. Located within the modern Cumberland/Galleria area, Akers Mill Road runs west from Powers Ferry Road at Interstate 285, immediately north of the Chattahoochee River, then turns south on Cumberland Boulevard, then departs west again after one \"block\", crossing Interstate 75 and then Cobb Parkway, and forming the southern boundary of the Cumberland Mall property.\n\nNear Austell.\n\nArnold Mill was located in southeastern Cherokee County, Georgia, east of Woodstock, Georgia. Arnold Mill Road runs east from Main Street (former Georgia 5) in the exact center of downtown Woodstock to meet Hickory Flat Highway (Georgia 140), which continues as Arnold Mill Road southeast through Milton to Crabapple between Roswell and Alpharetta. West of Main Street in Woodstock, it becomes Towne Lake Parkway.\n\nSometimes misspelled \"Autry\" (as in Gene Autry), Autrey Mill Road is along Johns Creek off Old Alabama Road about 2 miles from Medlock Bridge Road in the city of Johns Creek, Georgia, as is the Autrey Mill Nature Preserve and Heritage Center.\n\nBarnes Mill Road is just east-northeast of Marietta. Its eastern terminus is at Georgia 120 (Roswell Road) and ascends Blackjack Mountain. The road was severed by Interstate 75.\n\nBlack's Mill Road is named for a small grist mill that was once in Dawsonville, Georgia and was owned and operated by Noah and Sarah Black.\n\nThis antebellum mill was owned and operated by John Blake (1798-1854) and was located on Shallowford Road near I-85, northeast of Atlanta in DeKalb County.\n\nNear Canton.\n\nThe ruins are gone, but the site is located southeast of Atlanta at Georgia Highway 42 and the South River.\n\nNear Sandy Springs.\n\nJust east of the Atlanta city limits at 1510 Key Rd. at Intrenchment Creek Water Plant stood a grist mill operated by William Cobb, a DeKalb County pioneer. The mill was a notable landmark in the movement of Confederate forces to the field of the Battle of Atlanta, fought July 22, 1864.\n\nLocated in Southwest Fulton County in Chattahoochee Hills.\n\nLocated right of Collier Road in Buckhead along Tanyard Creek, the Collier's grist mill was at the center of a key Civil War battle, the Battle of Peachtree Creek. It was located on the lands of Andrew Jackson Collier. Bronze markers in Tanyard Creek Park and old millstones and markers at the corner of Redland Drive and Collier Rd. recall this history.\n\nLocated on one of the three main branches of Utoy Creek that flow North West from East Point, Thomas Connolly established a grist mill to serve his local plantation and the surrounding community in 1850. Confederate Troops of Cleburnes Division, Hardees Corps were entrenched overlooking the mill. The mill was destroyed several times by flood and rebuilt until 1910 when it was destroyed by the US Sanitary Commission to prevent the spread of mosquitoes and malaria and flu after the epidemics in 1910-1919. The mill pond still exists and is a scenic site along the former Chattahoochee, now Connolly Drive in East Point, GA.\n\nEstablished in 1850 by Thomas Connolly, located at the juncture of three tributaries of South Utoy Creek, A large dam supported a saw mill to meet lumber needs in the Utoy and East Point Areas of Fulton County. The Dam site was destroyed in 1963 with the construction of the GA Hwy 166 Lakewood Freeway. The Millpond prevented the direct assault of the US XXIII Corps during August 1864 along South Utoy Creek.\n\nDurand's Mill was a water-powered sawmill and factory operated in the 1860s by Samuel A. Durand (1822-1891), and later by Fredrick A. Williams (1817-1883). Williams' name designated the old road now known as Briarcliff and Williams Mill Road. Later, J.F. Wallace (1840-1902) succeeded Williams. His name was given to Wallace Station, a former stop on the Seaboard Railroad, and the road to Emory University where it joins Clifton Road. Federal 4th Corps troops crossed the South Fork of Peachtree Creek at Durand's Mill on July 20, 1864 during their advance upon Atlanta.\n\nNear Lithonia.\n\nLocated near Henderson Creek, one-tenth of a mile south of Midvale Road, in unincorporated DeKalb County, and named for Greenville Henderson (1792-1869).\n\nSituated on the North Fork of Utoy Creek, the Grist mill was in operation in 1850. Union troops of the US XIV Corps, Johnson's Division, crossed the mill pond on August 3, 1864, in an attempt to break the Confederate defenses at Utoy Creek, GA. The Herring House was used as a headquarters by General Sherman on August 3–4, 1864.\n\nIn 1876, the Houston Mill was built on the south fork of Peachtree Creek in Decatur, and used to grind corn (maize) into cornmeal. It was owned by Major Washington Jackson Houston, who in 1900 converted it into the first hydroelectric power plant in DeKalb County, and formed the Decatur Light, Power and Water Company.\n\nLocated above the confluence of Peavine Creek and South Fork Peachtree Creek, the dam itself still remains, and the remnants of the millrace are still visible along the creek in Emory University's Hahn Woods park.\n\nHowell's Mill was located near Atlanta. Named after Clark Howell, it was located on Peachtree Creek. Its original site was located just west of where the road bearing its name, Howell Mill Road, crosses the creek.\n\nThere were actually several Howell's Mills. In addition to the most well-known mill on Peachtree Creek, the Howell family established two other mills on Nancy Creek to the northwest. The mill located south of West Paces Ferry Road and Nancy Creek was known as 'Charley Howell's Mill', after Charles Augustus Howell (born Nov. 1845), one of Clark Howell's sons. It is now the site of the Hardin Construction Company.\n\nThe Atlanta Humane Society is located on Howell Mill Road, leading one former morning show host on a local radio station to call it \"Howlllllll\" Mill Road when doing their pet of the week segments.\n\nJohnston's Mill was owned by William Johnston (1789-1855) and was a landmark of Federal military operations in the summer of 1864. It was on Briarwood Road between Buford Highway and I-85 on the North Fork of Peachtree Creek.\n\nBetween Fayetteville and Tyrone on the Flint River. The road runs from the intersection with GA 92 in Fayetteville (New Hope Road is the continuation of the thoroughfare) to Sandy Creek Road outside of Tyrone. A roundabout was recently added midway along the road due to the construction of Veteran's Parkway. It is cited on the 1864 Civil War Military Atlas.\n\nMason Mill was a flour mill built by Ezekiel Mason before the Civil War in the 1850s, and located east of Atlanta on the bank of Burnt Fork Creek close to its merger with the south fork of Peachtree Creek near Decatur. Mason Mill Road meets Clairmont Road near this point. Built by slaves, the sluice or flume for the mill ran back to Clairmont Lake.\n\nIn 1906 the property was sold to the City of Decatur, and Mason Mill became a part of the Decatur Waterworks, a complex system supplying drinking water to the City until 1947.\n\nMoore's Mill was established along Peachtree Creek in 1828 by Thomas Moore. A Civil War battle took place here on July 19, 1864.\n\nMundy's Mill was located between Jonesboro and Fayetteville.\n\nPace's Mill belonged to Hardy Pace, one of Atlanta's founders. Located in what is now Vinings (formerly Paces), Paces Mill Road is a small spur route off of the much busier Paces Ferry Road.\n\nThe Marietta Paper Mill was built on the banks of Sope Creek as part of an industrial complex, near where it ends into the Chattahoochee River. The original structures which housed the Marietta Paper Mills were incorporated in 1859. The mills were burned by a detachment of Gen. Kenner Garrard's cavalry division on July 5, 1864. It was rebuilt after the war, the mill burned in 1870. It was restored in 1871, and it operated until 1902. Its ruins are still there, protected by the Chattahoochee River National Recreation Area. Located in Cobb County, it is accessible via two-lane Paper Mill Road, which connects to nearby Johnson Ferry Road. In the west, the road briefly combines with Terrell Mill Road just before ending at Lower Roswell Road as Old Paper Mill Road. Paper Mill Road was carried over Sope Creek by a covered bridge, which was burned by arson in the late 1960s.\n\nPickett's Mill was located near Dallas in Paulding County. It was the site of the Battle of Pickett's Mill during the Civil War.\n\nLocated in the extreme northwest of Forsyth County, 10-acres in size, Poole's Mill Park's main attraction is the covered bridge over the swift moving Settendown Creek near the center of the thickly forested park. The bridge was built in 1901, and the park is on the National Historic Registry.\n\nQueen Mill (or Queen's Mill) was opposite Fulton County Airport between Mableton Parkway and Interstate 20. Present day Queen Mill Road is named for the historic mill.\n\nLocated in Clayton County, it was originally built and known as Hollingsworth Mill. Isaiah Hollingsworth built the mill and it is recorded in the U.S. Official Civil War Military Atlas (Map Book). The mill is still standing and is located off Georgia Highway 42 on Rex Road. The mill witnessed the passing of a Division of U.S. General Sherman's Federal Army on November 16, 1864. A popular place known as “Tuckers Cabin” was located within eye site of the mill.\n\nNear Alpharetta.\n\nNear Woodstock, Georgia.\n\nRoswell Mill was a cluster of mills located in Fulton County near Vickery Creek in Roswell, Georgia, north of Atlanta. The mills were best known for producing finished textiles from raw materials grown on nearby plantations, and the group was \"the largest cotton mill in north Georgia\" at its height. The mill grew steadily, at one point producing wool and flour in addition to cotton textiles. This diversification progressed through several phases of ownership well into the 20th century, and the mill continued producing textiles until its eventual shutdown of operations in 1975.\n\nSewell Mill was located on Sewell Mill Creek, a tributary of Sope Creek. Sewell Mill Road is also located entirely in Cobb County, and runs from Georgia 120 (Roswell Road) east of Marietta, northeastward to Johnson Ferry Road. Old Sewell Road also exists. The old ruins of Sewell Mill can still be seen on a property along Sewell Mill Road, just east of Murdock Road.\n\nNear Canton, Georgia.\n\nThe property that became Starr's Mill was owned by Hananiah Gilcoat who built the first mill here before his death in 1825. This site, on Whitewater Creek south of Fayetteville, was less than a mile from the boundary between Creek Indian lands and the State of Georgia. Hilliard Starr, who owned the mill from 1866 until 1879, gave the site its current name. After the first two log structures burned, William T. Glower built the current building in 1907. This mill operated until 1959, using a water-powered turbine, instead of a wheel, to grind corn and operate a sawmill. The Starr's Mill site also included a cotton gin and a dynamo that produced electricity for nearby Senoia.\n\nTerrell's Mill was located on the Flint River in Clayton County south of the Atlanta Airport. Terrell's Mill Road is on the Atlanta area maps; however, the mill is no longer there. The mill stone was turned by a water turbine. The mill was built by John Calhoun Terrell and his son Francis Leonard about 1870. The mill was operated the last time around 1942 by Lowell S. Terrell, F. L.'s son. Besides the grist mill, F. L. Terrell operated a saw mill, a syrup mill, a cotton gin, a country store, a farm, and served as justice of the peace. John C. Terrell built his mill about 1858 which was located on the Flint River approximately where the present Delta Airlines Jet Base is located at the Atlanta Airport. This mill was later known as Stark's Mill on the property of Stark's Dairy. John C. Terrell moved from Pike County Georgia before 1858 to build a mill for Alexander Lynn Huie north of Pineridge Road in Forest Park on Jesters (Murcheons) Creek. He married Alexander's daughter, Sarah Elizabeth Huie, in 1858 soon after building Huie's mill and stayed in the area to raise 5 sons and 5 daughters.\n\nAnother Terrell Mill was located in north Atlanta and has no known relationship to the one in Clayton County. \nTerrell Mill Road runs from Cobb Parkway, northeast under I-75, then gradually curving north to cross Powers Ferry Road and the east end of Delk Road, before ending at Lower Roswell Road. While the name ends at this point, the four-lane divided roadway (an arterial road) continues straight northeast on Lower Roswell Rd. That road was \"broken,\" forcing drivers to make a turn in order to continue on the same road. Just south of there, Terrell Mill Park is located on the southwest side of the road, where it is now concurrent for a short distance with the original Paper Mill Road. The northernmost section of Old Paper Mill Road (the westernmost section of Paper Mill Rd.), north to Lower Roswell Rd., was originally a quarter-mile-long street named Terrell Mill Drive, and Google Maps still identify it as such. In the late 2000s, this section was widened along its eastern side to add an extra lane, which continues up Lower Roswell Rd. to Old Canton Road, bypassing the traffic light there altogether. This section of both roads is now six lanes: three northbound, two southbound, and a center left-turn lane.\n\nSouthwest of Powers Ferry Road, the road is also five lanes with a center left-turn lane, while to the north it has a landscaped road median typical of other county roads widened in the 1980s and 1990s. In order to squeeze through an underpass below I-75, it narrows to four lanes and has a steep dip that often floods during thunderstorms as it collects water from both the road and the highway, and from the downslope to nearby Rottenwood Creek. If the Northwest Corridor HOV/BRT project is built, this will become an exit/entrance to and from the reversible HOT lanes. Like Northside Drive to the south, the freeway here was built with a landscaped median (where it otherwise has a low median wall), so that it could later accommodate ramps to access future HOV lanes. There is currently no interchange in this area.\n\nDelk Road (Georgia 280 west of I-75) was extended from Powers Ferry Road to Terrell Mill Road in 1986. This intersection was rebuilt in the 2000s. Also in the 1980s, the first Home Depot store was located at Terrell Mill Rd. and Cobb Parkway in Marietta Plaza (originally a Treasure Island, now a Burlington Coat Factory), while its first headquarters was in a nearby office park on Terrell Mill Rd.\n\nTerry's Mill was owned and operated by Tom Terry (1823-1861) on Sugar Creek. The grist mill stood 800 yards downstream on Glenwood Ave. just east of I-20. It is cited in military annals recording the movements of Walker's and Bate's divisions of Hardee's corps to the Battle of Atlanta of July 22, 1864. His brother Thomas Terry operated a mill located at Lakewood Park, (future site of the Southeaster Fairgrounds). This large pond fed off the South River and created today's lake at Lakewood Park. Thomas Terry and his wife are buried on Lakewood Avenue at Southbend Park.\n\nTilly Mill Road is located in DeKalb County, in the city of Dunwoody. The road bisects the land on which the mill was located, owned and operated by the Tilly family in the early 20th century. The name also describes the residential district which now occupies the land.\n\nThe 700-acre forested Tribble Mill Park is located in Gwinnett County, near Sugarloaf Parkway between Lawrenceville and Snellville, Georgia. The mill that gives Tribble Mill its name ran on a river on the property from the 1830s until the 1950s. The land was privately owned up until the 1990s. Ozora Lake is the centerpiece of Tribble Mill Park, offering fishing and boating. The park's 2.8-mile paved trail winds nearly level elevation around the lake. Multiple lots in the park offer free parking and easy access to the trail. The park is dog-friendly (leashes are required), with dog pick-up stations dotting the trail's length.\n\nThe Old Tucker Mill is an antebellum-era structure located in historic downtown Tucker, Georgia. It is currently operated as an antique store, at 4290 Railroad Avenue.\n\nThe Old Tucker Mill housed a corn mill and a sawmill at the turn of the 20th century. It's one of the oldest buildings still standing in Tucker.\n\nIn Atlanta. The mill was founded by John White in Dekalb county, and subsequently run by his sons. The facilities included a lumber mill as well as a grist mill located on what is now known as White's Mill Road, between Interstate 20 and Flat Shoals Road east of Atlanta. John White is buried at a small cemetery on Candler Road just south of I-20.\n\nThe Mill additionally had a cotton gin attached as a part of the family complex, and continued in operation until the mid 1900s. During the Civil War the mill served to supply large size timber to the Confederacy. One of John's sons, William Coker White, who was a lieutenant in the 42nd Georgia C.S.A. (Dekalb Rangers) along with his brother Nicolas, came home early in the war to help oversee this aspect of the operation. According to family oral tradition, the lumber was then hauled over to the Chattahoochee River by wagon (to Aderhold's Ferry near present-day Six Flags) and floated down to Columbus, Georgia where the larger timbers were used in the construction of armored gunboat frames. (Note that one of William's sons (James Wesley) married one of the Aderhold girls, Alzie.) Quite naturally when Gen. William T. Sherman burned the city of Atlanta, he also found it advisable to burn much of the manufacturing infrastructure in the surrounding areas such as Dekalb County, including White's mill. After the war William Coker and his brother John Wesley rebuilt and continued to run the mill complex together. The economic circumstances after the war however, were such that all the members of the extended White families (John White had 16 children and each of these had their own households) could not rely upon the mill complex for support. Thus the family split up, with a number of White families (including William Coker White) moving as a group west of Atlanta to Haralson County, Georgia. William is buried in Pleasant Grove Church Cemetery in Haralson County along with a number of other members of the White family. John White is buried next to his second wife Nancy Mapp Wells and beside a cenotaph for his first wife Hetty Layfield.\n\nLocated on private property on the grounds of Wilkerson Mill Gardens, on Little Bear Creek in the City of Chattahoochee Hills.\n\nThis mill was on the south fork of Peachtree Creek as the Williams Mill Road is today's Briarcliff Road, which used to continue southwesterly from where it crossed Ponce de Leon Avenue. A remnant of the old road name still exists that intersects North Highland Avenue just south of North Avenue near the Carter Center. The mill was operated by furniture maker and sawmill operator Frederick A. Williams (1817–1883), son of Ammi Williams. It was purchased by Sam Durand before the Civil War, and military maps labeled it Durand's Mill on Williams Mill Road. It was last known as Wallace's Mill.\n\nOperated by Judge Wilson on a tributary of North Utoy Creek, the grist mill supported the Wilson Plantation and local farmers. Established in 1858 it was in operation during the Civil War and Union Troops were encamped adjacent to the mill in August 1864.\n\nThis mill was on a tributary of South Utoy Creek, established in 1830 in Land Lot 200 of then Dekalb County, now Fulton. Joseph Willis was the miller and ground corn into meal and grits for early settlers in the Utoy Post Office Community CIRCA 1822. Customers included Dekalb County's first Physician Dr William Gilbert, and his Brother Dr Joshua Gilbert, the White family, Childress Family, Bryant Family, Head Family. The mill was the dividing line between the Union XXIII Army Corps and the Confederates of Bates Division during the siege of Atlanta in August 1864.\n\nNear East Point, GA.\n\n"}
{"id": "1856423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856423", "title": "Kumzits", "text": "Kumzits\n\nKumzits (קומזיץ) is a compound-word in Hebrew derived from the Yiddish words קום (come) and זיץ (sit). The word is used to describe a musical gathering that Jews partake in. Everyone sits together, be it on the floor or on chairs, and sings spiritually moving songs. In order to establish a certain ambiance the lighting is often low and candles are primarily used, or if taking place outdoors it is usually around a campfire. If it is not the Jewish Sabbath then there will usually be musical instruments, such as guitar or violin. An orator will usually tell short inspirational folk-stories between songs. Originally the word was coined by the Biluim. Despite the opposition of some who preferred to use the more distinctly Hebrew שב-נא \"Shev-na\" \"please sit\" or Persian/Arabic טוזיג \"Tozig\" (via the Talmud), the word has since stuck and is used mainly by the religious but sometimes also the secular public. \n\nAmong Slonimer Chassidim, a similar gathering is called a \"\"zitzen\"\", which is Yiddish for \"sitting\", and is conducted by the Chassidim after the Rebbe's Tish, without the presence of the Rebbe.\n\nOften, a kumzits will take place after the Sabbath, and as such some erroneously use the term interchangeably with Melava Malka. When a kumzits takes place Friday night, it is often called an \"oneg shabbos\" (a Hebrew phrase meaning \"Sabbath pleasure\"). Kumzits are also popular among campers.\n\nGenerally, slow, moving songs are sung during a kumzitz. Songs composed by Shlomo Carlebach are very popular, as well as songs by the more recent Jewish singing group Dveykus. If the kumzits takes place on the Jewish Sabbath, songs with a Sabbath theme can be sung. If the kumzits is held on Rosh Chodesh or near the date of another Jewish holiday, songs associated with that holiday can be sung. Here is a partial list of the more popular kumzits songs:\n"}
{"id": "1856426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856426", "title": "Robert Gibson (wrestler)", "text": "Robert Gibson (wrestler)\n\nRobert Gibson (born Ruben Gibson, July 19, 1958) is an American professional wrestler. He is best known as one half of the tag team known as The Rock 'n' Roll Express, with Ricky Morton. He has competed in singles competition also, and has won various singles championships throughout his career.\n\nIn February, 2017, it was announced that the Rock 'n' Roll Express would be inducted into the WWE Hall of Fame in the class of 2017. On March 31, 2017, in Orlando, Florida, the duo accepted this honor. The ceremony was held the Friday night prior to Wrestlemania 33.\n\nGibson started wrestling as Robert Gibson in 1977. His first match was against Eddie Sullivan. He was trained by his brother Ricky Gibson and teamed with Ricky in the southern independents.\n\nIn 1983, he formed the Rock 'N Roll Express with Ricky Morton. They feuded with The Midnight Express (Bobby Eaton and Dennis Condrey) in the USWA/CWA, and the feud carried over into the National Wrestling Alliance (NWA)'s Jim Crockett Promotions in 1985. They won the NWA Tag Title four times while there and feuded with the Four Horsemen, Ivan and Nikita Koloff, and the team of Rick Rude and Manny Fernandez. Even though he and Morton were of similar build and wrestled a similar style, Gibson was always booked as the stronger and more powerful of the two.\n\nGibson was injured in 1990 and when he returned to World Championship Wrestling (WCW) in 1991, Morton turned on him to join The York Foundation. They feuded and Gibson teamed with Tom Zenk, but had no success and soon left WCW. He rejoined Morton in Smoky Mountain Wrestling (SMW) and they feuded with the Heavenly Bodies led by Jim Cornette. Shortly before SMW's demise, Gibson turned heel and joined \"Cornette's Army\".\n\nThe team came back briefly First in the USWA, WWF in 1993 and then WCW in 1996. In 1998, they were part of the \"NWA\" angle in the World Wrestling Federation (WWF) for a brief period. The Rock n' Roll express were awarded the NWA tag team championships before losing them to the Headbangers a month later.\n\nIn 1998 he went on his own to wrestle for Extreme Championship Wrestling.\n\nOn February 12, 2000 he returned to WCW as he lost to WCW World Television Champion Jim Duggan on WCW Saturday Night. \n\nTheir last run in a big federation was with Total Nonstop Action Wrestling when they were part of Vince Russo's Sports Entertainment Xtreme faction.\n\nHe also appeared at one Wrestle Birmingham show in 2002 as \"Robert Fuller Jr.\", pretending to be the son of veteran wrestler Robert Fuller, a gimmick also used by other wrestlers.\n\nIn late 2003/2004, Robert along with Ricky Morton, joined the newly formed \"Original\" Big Time Wrestling, under the banner of the All World Wrestling League.\n\nFrom 2007 to 2009, he worked for Ultimate Wrestling, a promotion in his home town of Pensacola, Florida, where he was one half of the first ever Ultimate Wrestling Tag-team Champions with Bobby Doll. In September 2010 he returned to Ultimate Wrestling.\n\nIn 2014, The Rock-n-Roll Express was still wrestling on the independent circuit.\n\nIn 2016, The Rock N' Roll Express made a special appearance as part of TNA's weekly televised program \"Impact Wrestling\"'s Total Nonstop Deletion episode, where they took part in the Tag Team Apocalypto match along with other tag teams.\n\nIn February 2017, WWE played a video package of the Rock n' Roll Express and the announcement of their hall of fame induction set for pre-WrestleMania.\n\nThe Rock N Roll Express participated in the 2019 edition of the Jim Crockett Cup, but were defeated by The Briscoe Brothers in the first round. During the NWA television tapings on October 1, 2019, they won the NWA World Tag Team Championship.\n\nThe team made their New Japan Pro Wrestling debut during the Fighting Spirit Unleashed 2019 event, 3 events promoted by NJPW in the United States.\n\nGibson has acknowledged during a fund raising event at the Western Pennsylvania School for the Deaf that he is a hearing child of deaf parents. He knows sign language and often speaks with his hands in the ring before his matches.\n\nOn September 15, 2006, his brother, Ricky Gibson, died. Robert's mother and father are also deceased. The WWE acknowledged the legends death on WWE.com\n\nRobert is engaged to Tami McMaster.\n\nHe is part owner of Zeke's Deep Sea Fishing tours in Orange Beach, Alabama.\n\nIn 2016, Gibson opened a wrestling school in Douglasville, Georgia, which also doubles as an independent wrestling promotion called All Pro Championship Wrestling.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1856429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856429", "title": "Ulva lactuca", "text": "Ulva lactuca\n\nUlva lactuca, also known by the common name sea lettuce, is an edible green alga in the family Ulvaceae. It is the type species of the genus \"Ulva\".\n\n\"Ulva lactuca\" is a thin flat green algae growing from a discoid holdfast. The margin is somewhat ruffled and often torn. It may reach or more in length, though generally much less, and up to across. The membrane is two cells thick, soft and translucent, and grows attached, without a stipe, to rocks or other algae by a small disc-shaped holdfast.\n\nGreen to dark green in colour, this species in the Chlorophyta is formed of two layers of cells irregularly arranged, as seen in cross-section. The chloroplast is cup-shaped in some references but as a parietal plate in others with one to three pyrenoids. There are other species of \"Ulva\" which are similar and not always easy to differentiate.\n\nThe distribution is worldwide: Europe, North America (west and east coasts), Central America, Caribbean Islands, South America, Africa, Indian Ocean Islands, South-west Asia, China, Pacific Islands, Australia and New Zealand.\n\n\"Ulva lactuca\" is very common on rocks and on other algae in the littoral and sublittoral on shores all around the British Isles, the coast of France, the Low Countries and up to Denmark. It is particularly prolific in areas where nutrients are abundant. This has been the case off the coast of Brittany where a high level of nitrates, from the intensive farming there, washes out to sea. The result is that large quantities of \"Ulva lactuca\" are washed up on beaches, where their decay produces methane, hydrogen sulfide, and other gases.\n\nCertain environmental conditions can lead to the algae spreading over large areas. In August 2009, unprecedented levels of the algae washed up on the beaches of Brittany, France, causing a major public health scare as it decomposed. The rotting thalli produced large quantities of hydrogen sulfide, a toxic gas which, like hydrogen cyanide, inhibits cytochrome c oxidase, inhibiting cellular respiration and resulting in critical cellular hypoxia. In one incident near Saint-Michel-en-Grève, a horse rider lost consciousness and his horse died after breathing the seaweed fumes. Environmentalists blamed the phenomenon on excessive use of fertilizers and the excretion of nitrates by pig and poultry farmers. In an earlier separate incident at the same beach in July 2009, a truck driver had died near his vehicle after hauling three truckloads of sea lettuce without protective gear during the annual cleanup. Although initially recorded as a heart attack, the death of the truck driver prompted French authorities to exhume his remains for an autopsy. It was later determined to be cardiac arrest resulting from pulmonary edema, which is an indication of possible hydrogen sulfide poisoning. Dead animals found on the algae-clogged beaches (including thirty-one wild boars in July 2011) were also claimed to be linked to toxic fumes by environmentalists.\n\nThe sporangial and gametangial thalli are morphologically alike. The diploid adult plant produces haploid zoospores by meiosis, these settle and grow to form haploid male and female plants similar to the diploid plants. When these haploid plants release gametes they unite to produce the zygote which germinates, and grows to produce the diploid plant.\n\n\"U. lactuca\" is locally used in Scotland in soups and salads.\n\n"}
{"id": "1856438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856438", "title": "Sam Collins Day", "text": "Sam Collins Day\n\nSam Collins Day is a local holiday in Canton/Collinsville Connecticut, United States. It is celebrated on the 3rd Saturday in September, and is a showcase of local businesses, clubs, and other organizations. The event is named after Samuel W. Collins who built the Collins Axe Factory on the Farmington river around which the area of downtown Canton, now known as Collinsville developed.\n\nSam Collins Day is held at the Canton Springs Fire Department field.\n\nEvents at Sam Collins Day include live entertainment, a pancake breakfast, a number of tents with local businesses handing out freebies, entertainment for children, a Teacup Auction, and various foodstuffs.\n"}
{"id": "1856440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856440", "title": "J. Stewart Burns", "text": "J. Stewart Burns\n\nJoseph Stewart Burns, better known as J. Stewart Burns, is a television writer and producer most notable for his work on \"The Simpsons\", \"Futurama\", and \"Unhappily Ever After\".\nBurns attended Harvard University, where he wrote for the \"Harvard Lampoon\". \n\nNoted in the DVD commentaries of \"The Deep South\" and \"Roswell That Ends Well\", Burns has an M.A. in Mathematics from UC Berkeley, where he studied under John Rhodes. Burns is partly credited for The Simpsons’ inclusion of a number of complex mathematical concepts and jokes within the series. \n\nBurns was famously referenced in a 1993 \"Newsweek\" article about his decision to jump from pursuing a graduate degree in mathematics to writing comedy: \"You could read the entire story of American decline in that one career move.\"\n\nBurns got his start by writing for \"Beavis and Butthead\". Since then, he has written for \"The Simpsons\", \"Futurama\", and \"Unhappily Ever After\".\n\nBurns has won the Emmy Award for Outstanding Animation Program four times - for Futurama in 2002, and for The Simpsons in 2006, 2008 and 2019.\n\nAside from writing on the original series, Burns also wrote the script for the \"Futurama\" video game as well as one of the \"Spyro\" games. Burns developed and has served as the game runner of since its inception.\n\nBurns lives in Los Angeles and is married to screenwriter Lillian Yu.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1856443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856443", "title": "Doctor Dolittle's Zoo", "text": "Doctor Dolittle's Zoo\n\nDoctor Dolittle's Zoo was written and illustrated by Hugh Lofting in 1925. In the book, Doctor Dolittle returns from his voyages and sets his house in order. This includes expanding his zoo to include a home for crossbred dogs and a club for rodents. Doctor Dolittle's Zoo is different from all others because there are no cages; the animals stay there voluntarily and are free to leave whenever they want. The doctor also takes time to solve a mystery with the aid of Kling, the Dog Detective.\\\n\nIn much of the book, the doings of Doctor Dolittle and his household form frame story to various members of the Rat and Mouse Club telling their life stories. \n"}
{"id": "1856444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856444", "title": "Eric Hawthorne", "text": "Eric Hawthorne\n\nEric Hawthorne (born 1963) is a Scottish-born software developer living in Burnaby, British Columbia, Canada. He was the Green Party candidate in the Burnaby-Edmonds riding in provincial elections in 1996 and 2000.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1856445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856445", "title": "Alexander Volkov (tennis)", "text": "Alexander Volkov (tennis)\n\nAlexander Vladimirovich Volkov (; 3 March 1967 – 19 October 2019) was a Russian professional tennis player.\n\nVolkov turned professional in 1988.\n\nVolkov finished runner-up in three tournaments over 1989 and 1990; in the latter year he defeated World No. 1 Stefan Edberg in straight sets in the first round of the US Open. Volkov won his first top-level professional singles title in 1991 at Milan. At Wimbledon that year, he lost a close match in the fourth round to the eventual tournament champion Michael Stich, 4–6, 6–3, 7–5, 1–6, 7–5 despite winning the same number of games as Stich overall in the match, which hinged on a lucky shot hit by the German when he was trailing 3–5 in the final set. As Volkov served for the match, with the score at 30–15 in his favour, a shot hit by Stich was heading out, but the ball made contact with the inside edge of the top of the net post, sailed over Volkov's head, and landed inside the line, sparing the German from having to face two successive match-points during Volkov's service game, and bringing the scoreline instead to 30–30. Stich went on to take the game; and subsequently Volkov would not win another.\n\nVolkov was runner-up in three tournaments in 1992 and won his second title in 1993 in Auckland. Later in 1993, Volkov defeated Björn Borg in the first round of the Kremlin Cup in Moscow, in a match which proved to be the last of Borg's career. Volkov won the Kremlin Cup a year later in 1994 to claim his third (and final) career title. He reached one more final in 1997 in Shanghai.\n\nHis best Grand Slam singles performance was reaching the semifinals of the 1993 US Open, where he defeated Jonathan Stark, Kevin Ullyett, Amos Mansdorf, Chuck Adams and Thomas Muster before losing to Pete Sampras.\n\nVolkov was part of the Russian team that reached the final of the Davis Cup in 1994. He won singles rubbers over Patrick Rafter of Australia in the first round and Michael Stich of Germany in the semifinals. However, he lost both his singles rubbers in the final as Russia was defeated by Sweden 4–1.\n\nVolkov retired from the professional tour in 1998. His career-high singles ranking was world No. 14 in 1994. His career prize-money earnings totalled $3,362,786.\n\nHe was be Marat Safin's coach before the duo split in July 2007.\n\n"}
{"id": "1856450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856450", "title": "NICE Ltd.", "text": "NICE Ltd.\n\nNICE Ltd. () is an Israel-based company, specializing in telephone voice recording, data security, and surveillance, as well as systems that analyze recorded data.\n\nThe company serves various industries, such as financial services, telecommunications, healthcare, outsourcers, retail, media, travel, service providers, and utilities.\n\nThe primary listing of the company's shares is on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange; where it is part of the TA-35 Index.\n\nBarak Eilam became CEO in April 2014, replacing Zeevi Bregman. Eilam previously headed the company's Americas division. As of December 31, 2016 the company had 4,936 employees.\n\nNICE was founded in 1986 as Neptune Intelligence Computer Engineering (NICE) by 7 Israeli former army colleagues. The company initially focused on developing technology for security and defense applications, but soon refocused their efforts on civilian applications, mainly for contact center, financial services and business intelligence markets. \n\n"}
{"id": "1856451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856451", "title": "List of modernist poets", "text": "List of modernist poets\n\nThis is a list of major poets of the Modernist movement.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1856460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856460", "title": "Diane Rehm", "text": "Diane Rehm\n\nDiane Rehm (; born Diane Aed; September 21, 1936) is a retired American public radio talk show host. Her program, \"The Diane Rehm Show\", was distributed nationally and internationally by National Public Radio. The show was produced at WAMU, which is licensed to American University in Washington, D.C.\n\nRehm had announced her plans to retire from hosting the show after the 2016 elections. The final program was recorded and distributed on December 23, 2016. Rehm announced she was going to host a weekly podcast, which she began doing in January 2017.\n\n\"The Washington Post\" describes Rehm as a leading voice in the right to die debate.\n\nRehm was born in Washington, D.C. According to Rehm's autobiography, \"Finding My Voice\", her father's family were Eastern Orthodox Christians from Ottoman Mersin, a city on the southern coast of Anatolia. According to Rehm, the family were Arabs, and her mother was an educated woman who was fluent in both French and Arabic. Rehm's father immigrated to the United States in 1911, following his older brothers. He returned to Mersin to marry her mother, but found that she and her family were living in Alexandria, Egypt. He brought her to the United States in 1929; family memories of how the two met vary. In a 2012 interview in \"The Washingtonian\", she describes her father as coming from Beirut, Lebanon.\n\nRehm attended William B. Powell Elementary and Roosevelt High School in Washington, D.C. Upon graduation, she was employed by the city's highways department, where she became a radio dispatcher.\n\nRehm married John Rehm, her second husband, in 1959; he was working at the State Department, where she was working as a secretary. John Rehm died June 23, 2014, after he stopped eating and drinking to end his suffering from Parkinson's disease. After his death, Rehm became a staunch advocate for medical aid in dying, arguing that no one should suffer needlessly in the way that her husband did.\nShe has two adult children, David and Jennifer.On October 14, 2017, Diane Rehm and John Hagedorn were married at the Washington National Cathedral. \n\nRehm has spasmodic dysphonia, a neurological condition that affects the quality of her voice.\n\nRehm began her radio career in 1973 as a volunteer for WAMU's \"The Home Show.\" In 1979, she took over as the host of WAMU's morning talk show, \"Kaleidoscope\", which was renamed \"The Diane Rehm Show\" in 1984.\n\nRehm has interviewed many political and cultural figures, including John McCain, Barack Obama, Madeleine Albright. She has said that her most touching interview was with Fred Rogers of the PBS program \"Mister Rogers' Neighborhood\", conducted just before his death. Rehm has described her interviews with Bill Clinton and Hillary Clinton to have been \"amazing experiences.\"\n\nShe has written three autobiographical books. The first, \"Finding My Voice\", dealt with her traditional upbringing in a Christian Arab household, her brief first marriage and divorce, her 50-year marriage to John Rehm, raising her children, the first 20 years of her radio career, and her battles with depression, osteoporosis, and spasmodic dysphonia. Together with John Rehm she co-wrote \"Toward Commitment: A Dialogue About Marriage\", which was published in 2002.\n\nHer memoir, \"On My Own\", was published by Alfred A. Knopf in 2016.\n\nThe final broadcast of \"The Diane Rehm Show\" was aired on December 23, 2016.\n\nIn 2005, a private study funded by the Corporation for Public Broadcasting reported that Rehm booked 22 liberal guests for every 5 conservative guests. The study was criticized as a politicized attempt to, in Rehm's word, \"scare\" journalists with the accusation of liberal bias. One criticism of the study concerned its criteria of what constituted \"liberal\" – a category which included seemingly moderate Republicans such as Senator Chuck Hagel and former Representative Bob Barr. The study was commissioned by Kenneth Tomlinson, whose appointment to the chairmanship of the CPB by George W. Bush had been criticized by liberals as politically motivated. Tomlinson hired Indiana consultant Frederick W. Mann, a conservative thinker previously associated with the Young America's Foundation, which has described itself as \"the principal outreach organization of the Conservative Movement\".\n\nA report on the study by the CPB's Inspector General, Kenneth Konz, criticized Tomlinson's methods; the report led to Tomlinson's immediate resignation in November 2005. According to the \"Washington Post\", Rehm personally \"called Mann's findings 'unprofessional and simplistic.' [and] added 'I've been booking shows for 25 years. I don't think they have any idea what it takes to achieve the professionalism and expertise and the right people to express a variety of points of view. . . . What [Kenneth Tomlinson]'s doing, I think, is trying to scare public broadcasters.' \"\n\nRehm has been featured in three political movie documentaries: \"Jimmy Carter: Man from Plains\", \"I.O.U.S.A.\", and Dinesh D'Souza's \"\" which used her quote, \"And then you've got the cover of \"Forbes\" magazine, a cover story by Dinesh D'Souza. I think nothing has turned my stomach so much in recent years as reading that piece.\"\n\nOn June 10, 2015, Rehm interviewed 2016 Democratic presidential candidate Bernie Sanders, and stated that Sanders had dual citizenship with Israel; this was not true. Sanders denied that he holds dual citizenship, but Rehm repeated her assertion of the senator's dual citizenship as a fact. Rehm's statements were criticized by David Harsanyi in \"The Federalist\" for being an anti-Semitic smear. Sophia Tesfaye of \"Salon\" pointed out that Rehm apparently fell for an antisemitic canard and did not successfully fact-check her information before she conducted her interview with Sanders. In \"The Times of Israel\", Gedalyah Reback stated that the interview was controversial because Rehm seemed to have accused a Jewish U.S. presidential candidate of maintaining secret Israeli citizenship.\n\nRehm apologized for her exchange with Sanders in a statement released later that day. \"On today's show I made a mistake. Rather than asking if Senator and presidential candidate Bernie Sanders whether he had dual U.S./Israeli citizenship, as I had read in a comment on Facebook, I stated it as fact. I want to apologize as well to all our listeners for having made an erroneous statement. I am sorry for the mistake. However, I am glad to play a role in putting this rumor to rest.\" Jewish Journalist Josh Marshall called her apology \"a total crock.\" Jewish Law professor David Bernstein found it strange that both Rehm and her producer fell for what he felt was an obvious anti-Semitic hoax. He speculated that frequently-heard strange accusations about Jewish supporters of Israel may have played a role. Elizabeth Jepsen, NPR's ombudsman, took issue with both Rehm's interview and apology: \"Far from putting anything to rest, Rehm has now taken a falsehood from the fringes of the Internet and moved it into the mainstream conversation.\"\n\nFollowing the 2014 death of her husband—who was unable to get physician assisted suicide drugs due to their illegality in Maryland—Rehm became an advocate for right to die. NPR's ombudsman deemed that her related fundraising for Compassion & Choices violated the NPR ethical standards, and she agreed to stop attending fundraising dinners.\n\nIn February 2020 she published a book containing 40 interviews with people involved in and holding different views on questions related to the end-of-life care and the right-to-die movement. Titled \"When My Time Comes: Conversations About Whether Those Who Are Dying Should Have the Right to Determine When Life Should End\", its foreword was contributed by John Grisham. She is also collaborating with Joe Fab on a documentary with the same title that is scheduled to be released in 2021.\n\nA partial list of Rehm's honors and awards:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1856464", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856464", "title": "Polovtsian Dances", "text": "Polovtsian Dances\n\nThe Polovtsian Dances, or Polovetsian Dances ( from the Russian \"Polovtsy\"—the name given to the Kipchaks and Cumans by the Rus' people) form an exotic scene at the end of act 2 of Alexander Borodin's opera \"Prince Igor\".\n\nThe work remained unfinished when the composer died in 1887, although he had worked on it for more than a decade. A performing version was prepared by Nikolai Rimsky-Korsakov and Alexander Glazunov in 1890. Several other versions, or \"completions\", of the opera have been made. The dances are performed with chorus and last between 11 and 14 minutes. They occur in act 1 or act 2, depending on which version of the opera is being used. Their music is popular and often given in concert as an orchestral showpiece. At such performances the choral parts are often omitted. The opera also has a \"Polovtsian March\" which opens act 3, and an overture at the start. When the dances are given in concert, a suite may be formed: Overture – Polovtsian Dances and March from \"Prince Igor\".\n\nThe first dance, which uses no chorus and is sometimes omitted in concerts, is No. 8, entitled \"Dance of the Polovtsian Maidens\" [\"Пляска половецких девушек\"]: presto, 6/8, F major; it is placed directly after the \"Chorus of the Polovtsian Maidens\" which opens the act and is followed by \"Konchakovna's Cavatina\".\n\n\"Theme from No. 8\"\n<score vorbis>\\relative c{\\key f \\major \\time 6/8 c4\\p( bes8 a bes c bes a bes g a bes) a( g f g f e f e d d4) r8 \\bar \"||\"}</score>\n\nThe dances proper appear at the end of the act as an uninterrupted single number in several contrasting sections, as in the following list. Basic themes are identified by letters in brackets (e.g. [a]) and illustrated in the notation below the list.\n\n\"Themes from No. 17\"\n<score vorbis>\\relative c{\\key a \\major \\time 4/4 b8^\"[a]\"\\p( cis d4) \\times 2/3{fis8( e d} cis4) d8( cis16 b a4) r2 fis8( gis a4) \\times 2/3{cis8( b a} gis4) a2 r2 \\bar \"||\"}</score>\n\n<score vorbis>\\relative c{\\key a \\major \\time 4/4 b,8-.\\p^\"[b]\" b( fis'4)~fis8 e16( fis) \\appoggiatura {d16[e]} d8( cis16 b) cis( d e8~)e4 e8( fis) \\appoggiatura{cis16[d]} cis8( b16 a) fis8-. fis( b4~) b8( cis) \\appoggiatura{b16[cis]} b8( a16 gis) a( gis fis8~)fis4 fis8 (gis a cis) \\bar \"||\"}\\layout{\\context{\\Score\n\\override NonMusicalPaperColumn.line-break-permission = ##f\n\\override NonMusicalPaperColumn.page-break-permission = ##f}}</score>\n\n<score vorbis>\\relative c{\\key f \\major \\time 4/4 g8-.\\p^\"[c]\" g8->~g16( a bes8) bes16( c bes a) a( bes a g) f8-. f->~f16( g f e) e( f e ees) d( ees e f) \\break g8-. g->~g16( a bes8) bes16( c bes a) a( bes a g) f8-. f->~f16( g f ees) des( ees des c) bes( c des f) \\bar \"||\"}\\layout{\\context{\\Score\n\\override NonMusicalPaperColumn.line-break-permission = ##f\n\\override NonMusicalPaperColumn.page-break-permission = ##f}}</score>\n\n<score vorbis>\\relative c{\\key d \\major \\time 3/4 r4\\ff^\"[d]\" a,->( b8) r r4 b->( cis8) r r4 cis->( d8) r r4 d->( e8) r r4 fis4.->( g8) g( fis) fis( eis) eis( e) e( dis) dis( d) d( cis) cis\\trill( b) b4-. b-. \\bar \"||\"}</score>\n\n<score vorbis>\\relative c\"{\\key f \\major \\time 6/8 «{r8^\"[e]\" r a(\\p e'4.->)~ e2.~e8 r e( g4->) e8( g4->) e8( g4->) e8( a,->)}\\\\{\\hideNotes r2. \\unHideNotes r8 c (e d c bes a) r r d,-> r r c-> r r bes-> r4 a8->}» \\bar \"||\"}</score>\n\nNotable instrumental solos include those for clarinet (in No. 8 and the Men's Dance [c]) and the oboe and English horn (in the Women's Dance [b]).\n\nThe text of the first stanza of this particular section in the opera is given below.\n<poem lang=\"ru\" style=\"float:left;\">\nУлетай на крыльях ветра\nТы в край родной, родная песня наша,\nТуда, где мы тебя свободно пели,\nГде было так привольно нам с тобою.\nТам, под знойным небом,\nНегой воздух полон,\nТам под говор моря\nДремлют горы в облаках;\nТам так ярко солнце светит,\nРодные горы светом заливая,\nВ долинах пышно розы расцветают,\nИ соловьи поют в лесах зеленых,\nИ сладкий виноград растет.\nТам тебе привольней, песня,\nТы туда и улетай.\nПойте песни славы хану! Пой!\nСлавьте силу, дочесть хана! Славь!\nСлавен хан! Хан!\nСлавен он, хан наш!\nБлеском славы\nСолнцу равен хан!\nНету равных славой хану! Нет!\nЧаги хана славят хана.\nХана своего.</poem>\n<poem style=\"margin-left:2em; float:left;\">\nUletay na krylyakh vetra\nTy v kraj rodnoy, rodnaya pesnya nasha,\nTuda, gde my tebya svobodno peli,\nGde bylo tak privolno nam s tobyu.\nTam, pod znoynym nebom,\nNegoy vozdukh polon,\nTam pod govor morya\nDremlut gory v oblakakh;\nTam tak yarko solntse svetit,\nRodnyye gory svetom zalivaya,\nV dolinakh pyshno rozy rastsvetayut,\nI solovyi poyut v lesakh zelyonykh,\nI sladkiy vinograd rastyot.\nTam tebe privolney, pesnya,\nTy tuda i uletay.\nPoyte pesni slavy khanu! Poy!\nSlav'te silu, dochest' khana! Slav'!\nSlaven khan! Khan!\nSlaven on, khan nash!\nBleskom slavy\nSolntsu raven khan!\nNyetu ravnykh slavoy khanu! Nyet!\nChagi khana slavyat khana.\nKhana svoyego.</poem>\n<poem style=\"margin-left:2em; float:left;\">\nFly on the wings of the wind\nTo our native land, dear song of ours,\nThere, where we have sung you at liberty,\nWhere we felt so free in singing you.\nThere, under the hot sky,\nThe air is full of bliss,\nThere to the sound of the sea\nThe mountains doze in the clouds;\nThere the sun shines so brightly,\nBathing the native mountains in light,\nSplendid roses blossom in the valleys,\nAnd nightingales sing in the green forests.\nAnd sweet grapes grow.\nYou are free there, song,\nFly home,\nSing songs of praise to the Khan! Sing!\nPraise the power and valor of the Khan!\nPraise the glorious Khan!\nHe is glorious, our Khan!\nIn the brilliance of his glory,\nThe Khan is equal to the sun!\nThere is none equal to the Khan in glory, none!\nThe Khan female slaves praise the Khan,\nTheir Khan!</poem>\n\nThe English translation of the remaining is:\n<poem>:\"Konchak\" [the Khan]\nDo you see the captives\nFrom the distant sea;\nDo you see my beauties,\nFrom beyond the Caspian Sea?\nOh, tell me, friend,\nTell me just one word:\nIf you want to,\nI will give you anyone of them.\n\nSing songs of praise to the Khan! Sing!\nPraised be his generosity, praised be his mercy!\nPraise him!\nTo his enemies the Khan is merciless\nHe, our Khan!\nWho may equal the Khan in glory, who?\nIn the brilliance of his glory,\nHe is equal to the sun!\nOur Khan, Khan Konchak, is equal\nIn glory to his forefathers!\nThe terrible Khan Konchak is equal\nIn glory to his forefathers!\nGlorious is our Khan Konchak!\nGlory, glory!\n\nOur Khan, Khan Konchak, is equal\nIn glory to his forefathers!\nThe grim Khan Konchak is equal\nIn glory to his forefathers!\nGlory, glory to Khan Konchak!\nKhan Konchak!\nWith your dancing entertain the Khan,\nDance to entertain the Khan, slaves!\nYour Khan!\nDance to entertain the Khan, slaves!\nYour Khan!\nWith your dancing entertain the Khan!\nEntertain with dancing!\nOur Khan Konchak!</poem>\n\nAs part of his first at the Théâtre du Châtelet in Paris, Sergei Diaghilev presented \"Polovtsian Scenes and Dances\", consisting of act 2 of \"Prince Igor\", with full orchestra and singers. The premiere took place on 18 May 1909. The choreography was by Michel Fokine and the sets and costumes were designed by Nicholas Roerich. In later seasons, without singers, the work was given as \"The Polovtsian Dances\". For the 1923 season, it was partly re-choreographed by Bronislava Nijinska.\n\nThemes from the \"Polovtsian Dances\" have been used widely in popular culture. The 1953 musical \"Kismet\" is mostly adapted from Borodin's music, including these dances. For instance, the \"Gliding Dance of the Maidens\" from Polovtsian Dances is adapted to Stranger in Paradise (song), which has been performed and referenced extensively (see the corresponding article). Themes have been adapted into various genres of popular music and performed by many singers and groups.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1856475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856475", "title": "Baseball at the 1912 Summer Olympics", "text": "Baseball at the 1912 Summer Olympics\n\nBaseball had its first appearance at the 1912 Summer Olympics as an exhibition sport. A game was played between the United States, the nation where the game was developed, and Sweden, the host nation. The game was held on Monday, 15 July 1912 and started at 10 a.m. on the Ostermalm Athletic Grounds in Stockholm.\n\nThe Americans were represented by various members of the American Olympic track and field athletics delegation, while the Swedish team was the Vesterås Baseball Club, which had been formed in 1910 as the first baseball club in Sweden. Four of the Americans played for Sweden, as the Swedish pitchers and catchers were inexperienced. One Swede eventually relieved Adams and Nelson, the American pitchers.\n\nSix innings were played, with the Americans not batting in the sixth and allowing the Swedes to have six outs in their half of the inning.\n\nThe game was umpired by George Wright, a retired American National League baseball player.\n\nOn the next day Tuesday, 16 July 1912 in the evening, two American teams played a second exhibition match.\n\n"}
{"id": "1856476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856476", "title": "Desmond Morton", "text": "Desmond Morton\n\nDesmond Morton may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1856477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856477", "title": "John Cain (34th Premier of Victoria)", "text": "John Cain (34th Premier of Victoria)\n\nJohn Cain (19 January 1882 – 4 August 1957) was an Australian politician, who became the 34th premier of Victoria, and was the first Labor Party leader to win a majority in the Victorian Legislative Assembly. He is the only premier of Victoria to date whose son has also served as premier.\n\nCain was born, one of 18 siblings, in Greendale, Victoria, near Bacchus Marsh. His father, Patrick Kane, was an Irish-born Roman Catholic who worked as a small farmer and contractor.\n\nAs a young man John Kane changed the spelling of his surname and converted to Anglicanism. He left no personal papers and very little is known about his youth (so little, indeed, that reference works published during his lifetime, and shortly after his death, continued to give the year of his birth as 1887). He had little education, and worked from an early age as a farm labourer. By 1907 he had moved to Melbourne, where he worked as a fruiterer in Northcote.\n\nAround 1910 Cain joined the Victorian Socialist Party (VSP), a Marxist party to the left of the Labor Party (although like most VSP members Cain was probably also an ALP member at the time). In 1915 he became an organiser with the Theatrical Employees' Union, and in 1916 he became a clerk in the Defence Department. He was sacked from this job because of his opposition to conscription for World War I, and became an organiser with the Clothing Trades Union. From 1915 to 1927 he was a Labor member of the Northcote City Council. In 1921 when many VSP members joined the new Communist Party of Australia, Cain broke his connections with the left and became a mainstream Labor politician.\n\nIn 1926 Cain married Dorothea Grindrod, with whom he had two children. His son John Cain was born in 1931, when he was already nearly 50. He sent his son to Northcote High School and later Scotch College, Melbourne, an unusual choice for a Labor politician at that time.\n\nCain was elected in 1917 to the Victorian Legislative Assembly as MLA for Jika Jika, which was renamed Northcote in 1927, a seat he held for 40 years. Victoria was Labor's weakest state, and there had never been a majority Labor state government. This was partly because of Labor's weakness in rural areas (dominated by the Country Party) and partly because of the strength of Deakinite liberalism among middle-class voters in Melbourne. Most notably the lack of a Labor majority government was however due to the high degree of rural malapportionment existing in the state's electoral system, strongly favouring the rural electorates to the disenfranchisement of inner-city electorates, where Labor's vote was centralised.\n\nCain was assistant minister for agriculture in the short-lived minority Labor government of George Prendergast in 1924, a minister without portfolio in the first minority Labor government of Edmond Hogan (1927–28), and minister for railways and for electrical undertakings in the second Hogan government (1929–32).\n\nWhen Hogan's government collapsed during the Great Depression and Hogan himself was expelled from the Labor Party, Cain became party deputy leader under Tom Tunnecliffe. Cain succeeded Tunnecliffe as Labor Leader in 1937. Under both Tunnecliffe and Cain, Labor supported the minority Country Party government of Albert Dunstan from 1935 to 1943.\n\nThe first Cain government lasted only 4 days, from 14 to 18 September 1943.\nIn September 1943 Dunstan resigned, when his government lost a vote of no confidence in the Victorian Legislative Assembly, the Lower house of the Victorian Parliament. Cain became Premier for four days while the conservative parties composed their differences. Dunstan then resumed office and retained it with Labor support until November 1945, when he again resigned.\n\nAfter Dunstan's resignation and a brief Liberal government under Ian Macfarlan, Cain again became premier on 21 November 1945. Labor's lower house parliamentary position was much better than it had been in 1943, since the 1945 state elections had given Labor 31 seats to the Country Party's 18 and the Liberals' 13, with three independents.\nWith a majority in neither House, Cain's government was unable to pass much legislation. On 2 October 1947 the upper house, the Victorian Legislative Council blocked his government's budget to show its opposition to the federal Labor government of Ben Chifley, which had announced plans to nationalise the private banks. Although this issue had nothing to do with state politics, Cain was forced to resign and call an election for 8 November 1947, at which Labor was heavily defeated.\n\nThe 1950 election, however, gave Labor 24 seats to the Liberals' 27 and the Country Party's 13. Since the Liberals and Country Party hated each other, no stable majority government was possible, and this, together with the unpopularity of the new federal Liberal government, gave Cain his opportunity. In October 1952 the Country Party premier, John McDonald, resigned and called early elections. Labor won 37 seats, the first time it had won a majority in the lower house, and Cain formed his third government.\n\nCain's government was hampered by the hostility of the Legislative Council (which until 1950 had been elected on a restricted property-based franchise and so always had a conservative majority), and also by tensions within his own party. During the war the Communist Party had grown greatly in strength in the trade unions which controlled and funded the Labor Party, leading a faction of anti-Communist Catholics to form within the party to fight Communist influence. (This body, known as The Movement, was organised by B. A. Santamaria and supported by the Catholic Archbishop of Melbourne, Daniel Mannix). Conflict between left and right in the Labor Party grew increasingly bitter in the Cold War atmosphere of the 1950s.\n\nNevertheless, the Cain government was able to pass more legislation than any previous Labor government in Victoria had done. Major reforms were carried out in the areas of workers' compensation, tenancy law, long service leave, hospitals, public transport, housing, charities and the Crimes Act. Changes included the provision on long-service leave to railway workers, increased eligibility to workers' compensation, alterations to the Shops and Factories Act and the Landlord and Tenant Act, and the introduction of legislation \"to penalise rogues who resorted to fraudulent misrepresentation in soliciting corporate investment from the public.\"\n\nThe government had also reformed wage determination procedures and public service administration, while constructive initiatives were carried out in adult education and soil conservation. Even some reforms to the electoral system were carried through the Council, where Labor and Liberal members united to reduce the malapportionment which had given the Country Party disproportionate representation since the 1920s. In its first two years the Cain government won the approval of the Melbourne daily papers \"The Age\", \"The Herald\" and \"The Argus\". Nevertheless, Cain's third Government fell on 19 April 1955 when 19 expelled Labor lower house members aligned to \"The Movement\" \"crossed the floor\" against the government in a vote of no confidence, ironically the same procedure that initiated Cain's first government.\n\nThe Australian Labor Party split of 1955 started in October 1954 after the federal leader, Dr H. V. Evatt, blamed B. A. Santamaria and his supporters in the Victorian Labor Party for Labor's loss of seats at the 1954 federal election. Santamaria exercised strong influence in the Cain government through \"Movement\" linked ministers such as Bill Barry and Frank Scully. Protestant and left-wing ministers strongly opposed the Movement faction. In December 1953 the Lands Minister, Robert Holt, resigned rather than introduce a Santamaria-influenced bill which would have promoted the settlement of Italian immigrants as small farmers in Gippsland (a favourite Santamaria scheme which was seen as a plot to create a Catholic peasantry).\n\nIn early 1955 the Labor Party's federal executive dissolved the state executive and began to expel Santamaria's supporters from the party. The Victorian branch then split between pro-Evatt and pro-Santamaria factions, and in March the pro-Evatt State Executive suspended 24 members of State Parliament suspected of being Santamaria supporters. Four ministers were forced to resign from the government. When the Parliament met on 19 April, 19 expelled Labor members crossed over to vote with the Liberal and Country Party members to defeat the government. At the ensuing May 1955 election, the expelled members and others stood as the Australian Labor Party (Anti-Communist). Labor was heavily defeated, winning only 20 seats to the Liberals' 34 and the Country Party's ten. Only one of the expelled Labor members was re-elected.\n\nCain was now 73, although he remained outwardly vigorous and his real age was a well-kept secret. He retained the leadership and declared that he would fight the next election against the Liberal premier, Henry Bolte. In 1957, however, the ALP split spread to Queensland, and Cain went to campaign for Labor at the state election which followed the fall of the Queensland Labor government. In Townsville on 9 August he suffered a stroke and died within a few hours, aged 75. Alfred Ernest \"Ernie\" Shepherd (1901–58) succeeded Cain as ALP leader, only to die himself little more than a year afterwards. Labor remained in opposition in Victoria until the 1982 election, when Cain's son, John Cain, Jr., led the party back to government.\n\n John Cain (1882–1957) was the father of John Cain (41st Premier of Victoria) (1931–2019), who also has a son named John Cain who in 2019 became State Coroner of Victoria.\n\n"}
{"id": "1856478", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856478", "title": "20th Century Boys", "text": "20th Century Boys\n\nA trilogy of live-action film adaptations, directed by Yukihiko Tsutsumi, were released in 2008 and 2009. The manga was licensed and released in English by Viz Media from 2009 to 2012, and distributed in Australasia by Madman Entertainment. The films were also licensed by Viz in North America and by 4Digital Media in the United Kingdom. \"20th Century Boys\" has received critical acclaim and has 36 million copies in circulation.\n\nIn 1969, young boys Kenji, Otcho, Yoshitsune and Maruo build, in an empty field, a hideout they call their secret base, in which they and their friends can get together to share manga and stolen pornographic magazines and listen to a radio. To celebrate the event, Otcho draws a symbol for the base that would represent their friendship. After their friends Yukiji and Donkey join the gang, they imagine a future scenario where villains would try to destroy the world, and in which the boys would stand up and fight; this scenario is transcribed and labelled .\n\nIn the late 1990s, Kenji is a convenience store owner, finding solace in his childhood adventures as he takes care of his baby niece Kanna and his mother. After Donkey is reported to have committed suicide, Kenji stumbles upon a large cult led by a man known only as \"Friend\". With current events beginning to resemble actions from the Book of Prophecy, Kenji and his former classmates try to remember who knows about the book. They find more events unfolding such as bombings and virus attacks in San Francisco, London, and a major Japanese airport.\n\nKenji and his former classmates eventually uncover a plan to destroy the world on New Year's Eve of 2000, referred to in the latter part of the story as the Bloody New Year's Eve, with the use of a \"giant robot\", which is later revealed to be a giant balloon with robotic appendages, which spreads the virus throughout the city as well as other cities. Kenji manages to get inside the robot to plant a bomb, but is presumed dead when it explodes. From this event, the members of the gain widespread political popularity and power by presenting a vaccine that counters the virus, and thus take all the credit for saving the world.\n\nFourteen years after Bloody New Year's Eve, Kanna is a teenage girl who works at a Chinese restaurant. After she tries to defuse some interaction between various mafia groups, she discovers that a patron's friend had witnessed a Chinese mafia member get killed by a corrupted policeman. The mafia member mentions an assassination attempt on the Pope as he visits Japan. She then finds herself being hunted by members of the Friends while trying to unite the mafia groups to her cause. Meanwhile, Otcho manages to escape a maximum security prison.\n\nKyoko Koizumi, who attends Kanna's school, impulsively takes on a school assignment of covering Bloody New Year's Eve, but soon becomes entangled in activities involving both the Friends and the people who oppose them. After surviving a brainwashing program, she joins with Kenji's friend Yoshitsune and his resistance force.\n\nFriend reveals a new plan, a continuation of the Book of Prophecy, in which he plans to kill every human being on Earth except for sixty million of his followers, but he is then assassinated by his chief scientist Yamane. Following this, Friend's funeral becomes a worldwide spectacle, held in a stadium with the Pope giving the address. Partway through the service, Friend appears to rise from the dead, and is shot in the shoulder by his own assassin. By saving the Pope, Friend is elevated to deity like status. Meanwhile, there is a worldwide viral outbreak that threatens to kill everyone except those who have been vaccinated.\n\nThe final portion of the story takes place in a newly remodeled Japan, under the \"Era of Friend\", who has instituted numerous bizarre changes, including the establishment of an Earth Defense Force, reputedly to protect Earth from an imminent alien invasion, exiling those without vaccinations, and forbidding travel across regions, under penalty of death. During this time frame, Kanna, who is revealed to be Friend's daughter, leads an insurgency against Friend's government, enlisting the aid of numerous groups, including the survivors of rival gangs and mafia organizations. During this, Kenji, apparently also risen from the dead and carrying his trademark guitar, reappears.\n\nThe series spans several decades from 1969 to 2017, the last of which in the chronology of the series, becomes 3FE (3rd Year of the Friend Era). The series makes three distinct timeline cuts during the story; one from 1971 to 1997, one from 2000 to 2014, and one from 2014 to 3FE. Several parts of the series are also told in flashbacks to previous events as the characters attempt to unravel the mystery of who Friend is and how to stop his plans of world destruction; most of the character's childhood backstories through the 1970s and 1980s are told in this fashion.\n\n\nNaoki Urasawa got the idea for \"20th Century Boys\" when he was in the bath and heard a speech on television by someone from the United Nations say \"Without them, we would not have been able to reach the 21st Century...\" and wondered \"Who's 'them'? Who are those people?\"\n\nAlthough he creates a \"movie trailer\" in his head when starting a new series, Urasawa does not plan the story out in advance. For example, a young woman appears in the first chapter pulling a curtain open to reveal a giant robot (as envisioned in the trailer). While writing that scene Urasawa could hear a baby crying in the convenience store next door and included that in the manga, thus it cuts to 1997 with Kenji and a crying baby Kanna in a convenience store. The author did not initially know that Kanna would grow into that young woman.\n\nA few weeks before the September 11 attacks, Urasawa turned in a manuscript for \"20th Century Boys\" where two giant robots fight and destroy buildings in Shinjuku. But after the attacks, the artist could not bring himself to illustrate that scene and created a chapter almost entirely devoted to Kenji singing a song, in order to express how he felt.\n\nWhen Urasawa began \"20th Century Boys\" in 1999, he was already writing \"Monster\" and continued to serialize both at the same time. Although he was briefly hospitalized for exhaustion at this point, \"Monster\" ended in 2001 and Urasawa began writing another series simultaneous to \"20th Century Boys\" in 2003 with \"Pluto\".\n\nWritten and illustrated by Naoki Urasawa, \"20th Century Boys\" was originally serialized in \"Big Comic Spirits\" from 1999 to 2006. The 249 individual chapters were published into 22 \"tankōbon\" volumes by Shogakukan from January 29, 2000, to November 30, 2006. A sequel, titled \"21st Century Boys\", started in \"Big Comic Spirits\"s January 19, 2007, issue and ran until July. The 16 chapters were released into two volumes on May 30, 2007, and September 28, 2007. \"20th Century Boys\" received an eleven-volume \"kanzenban\" re-release between January 29 and November 30, 2016. The single \"kanzenban\" reprint of \"21st Century Boys\", released on December 28, 2016, includes a new ending. A one-shot manga titled \"Aozora Chu-Ihō\" (\"Blue Sky Advisory – Kiss\") was published in the February 2009 issue of \"Big Comic Spirits\", it was credited to \"Ujiko-Ujio\", the pen-name of the fictional manga creator duo Kaneko and Ujiki in \"20th Century Boys\".\n\nBoth \"20th Century Boys\" and \"21st Century Boys\" were licensed for English-language release in North America by Viz Media in 2005, however their release was delayed until after their translation of \"Monster\" had finished. The first English-language volume of \"20th Century Boys\" was released on February 17, 2009, and the last of \"21st Century Boys\" on March 19, 2013. It had been reported that the reason for the delay was at the request of Urasawa, who felt there was a change in his art style over time. However, when asked about it being due to his request in 2012, Urasawa was surprised saying that he did not know about that and simply suggested Viz did not know which order to publish the two series. In 2017, Viz licensed the \"kanzenban\" editions of both \"20th Century Boys\" and \"21st Century Boys\". The first volume of \"20th Century Boys: The Perfect Edition\" was published on September 18, 2018. Viz's initial release was distributed in Australasia by Madman Entertainment. The series has also been licensed in Germany by Planet Manga, France by Génération Comics, Hong Kong by Jade Dynasty, the Netherlands by Glénat, Indonesia by Level Comics, Italy by Planet Manga, South Korea by Haksan Publishing, Spain by Planeta DeAgostini, Taiwan by Tong Li Comics, Thailand by Nation Edutainment and Brazil by Planet Manga.\n\nThe trilogy of \"20th Century Boys\" live-action films, directed by Yukihiko Tsutsumi, were first announced in 2006. In February 2008, the main cast was announced, as well as the trilogy's budget of 6 billion yen (approx. $60 million US) and that Urasawa will contribute to the script. Filming of the first two movies was planned from January 3 to the end of June, and of the third from mid-August to the end of October. English rock band T. Rex's \"20th Century Boy\", the song from which the series gets its name, was used as the theme song to the films.\n\nThe first movie's premiere was held in Paris on August 19, 2008, at the Publicis Champs-Elysées cinema with a press conference at the Louvre Museum, which was attended by Toshiaki Karasawa (Kenji) and Takako Tokiwa (Yukiji). The first film was released on August 30, 2008, the second on January 31, 2009, and the third was released on August 29, 2009. The first movie covers volumes 1 to 5 of the manga, and the second covers volumes 6 to 15, but differs from the original story on some key points; important characters missing in the first movie were introduced in the second. The final film in the trilogy covers the remainder of the volumes, but with several changes to the main story.\n\nThe first film in the trilogy is available on DVD and Blu-ray in Japan from VAP, and in Hong Kong from Kam & Ronson.\n\nA UK DVD release was announced by label 4Digital Asia, and released on May 4, 2009. On the same day, Part 2 received its UK theatrical premiere at the 8th Sci-Fi-London annual fantastic film festival. Part 3 received its UK theatrical premiere on May 7, 2010, at the Prince Charles Cinema in London as part of the 2nd Terracotta Film Festival. Following this, 4Digital Asia released a 4-disc boxset containing the complete trilogy on May 31, 2010.\n\nViz Media licensed the trilogy for North American release. The first film had its US theatrical premiere at the New People opening in San Francisco on August 15, 2009. The second film premiere followed at the same cinema on August 21, 2009, and the third film premiere followed on the same day as the Japanese premiere on August 28, 2009.\n\nPart 1 received its US DVD release on December 11, 2009. A launch event was held at the New People cinema in San Francisco with a theatrical screening. Part 2's DVD release had a similar launch event on February 9, 2010, with a one-night-only theatrical screening. Likewise, Part 3 had a launch event and theatrical screening at New People on May 20, 2010. The entire trilogy was broadcast by NHK on its TV Japan channel airing on consecutive Saturdays beginning November 13, 2010.\n\n\"20th Century Boys\" has 36 million \"tankōbon\" copies in circulation, was the third top-selling manga series of 2008, and the ninth top-selling of 2009. The series has also won numerous awards, including the 2001 Kodansha Manga Award in the General category, an Excellence Prize at the 2002 Japan Media Arts Festival, the 2003 Shogakukan Manga Award in the General category, and the first ever Angoulême International Comics Festival Prize for a Series in 2004. It also won the Grand Prize at the 37th Japan Cartoonists Association Awards, and the Seiun Award in the Comic category at the 46th Japan Science Fiction Convention, both in 2008. The series won the 2011 Eisner Award for Best U.S. Edition of International Material in the Asia category for Viz Media's English releases, and won the same award again in 2013. It was nominated twice, 2010 and 2013, for the Harvey Award in the Best American Edition of Foreign Material category, and three years in a row, 2010–2012, for the Eisner Award for Best Continuing Series.\n\nManga critic Jason Thompson called \"20th Century Boys\" \"an epic saga of nostalgia, middle age, rock n' roll, and a struggle against an evil conspiracy.\" He compared the story to several novels by Stephen King, such as \"It\", where \"a group of childhood friends who reunite as adults to deal with leftover issues from their childhood manifested in monstrous form.\" Thompson wrote that despite being a seinen manga aimed at an older audience, the series gained fans of all ages for its great premise, storytelling and the mystery behind Friend.\n\nCarlo Santos of Anime News Network felt the pacing of the series should have been quicker, but praised the intricate and interconnecting plot and its twists, as well as the well-developed characters. He also noted Urasawa's art and dialogue, saying \"it takes real skill to build a story as multi-layered as this one and still have it make sense as the characters explain things\".\n\nIncluding it on a list of \"10 Essential Manga That Should Belong in Every Comic Collection\", Matthew Meylikhov of \"Paste\" praised the cast as one of \"the most expansive and diverse\" in any manga and how Urasawa makes each character independently recognizable as they age through the decades. He finished by writing \"\"20th Century Boys\" becomes an experience featuring horror, science fiction, post-apocalyptic futures, wild humor, epic landscapes and more as an apex accomplishment in manga.\"\n\n\"20th Century Boys\" was adapted into three films. The first live-action film debuted at number two at the box office, grossing 625.61 million yen (approx. $5.78 million US), and rose to number one the second week. The second film debuted at number one, grossing approximately $6,955,472 US. The third film followed also debuting at number one, and earned approximately $22,893,123 US by its second week.\n\nWriting for \"Empire\", Justin Bowyer gave the first film a three out of five rating. He praised the action and faithfulness to the original manga, but stated that those unfamiliar with the source material may find the large cast of characters and complex story confusing. Bowyer also suggested waiting for all three films to be released. A fan of the manga, Jamie S. Rich of DVD Talk felt too much had to be cut to fit three films, with the development of characters suffering as a result. He did comment on how close the actors looked to their comic book counterparts and ultimately recommended the film. In the complete opposite view, both \"The Guardian\"s Cath Clarke and \"Time Out London\"s Trevor Johnston gave the first film two out of five stars and both cited the faithfulness to the original media as a negative, feeling that some of the material could have been cut.\n\nCharles Webb of Twitch Film voiced similar criticism in a review of the second film. However, he praised the character Friend and Etsushi Toyokawa's performance as Occho, as well as the ending that makes the viewer anticipate the final installment in the trilogy. Jamie S. Rich also felt that the second movie \"more than fulfills its prime directive of enticing me to stick around\" for the final film.\n\nOn the third film, Burl Burlingame of the \"Honolulu Star-Bulletin\" wrote \"The steam seems to have run out of the franchise during this third part, and it's simply an OK capper to the series,\" but did praise the special effects. \"Variety\"s Russell Edwards also cited the special effects in the final installment as the best in the trilogy.\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "1856491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856491", "title": "Narayan Pokharel", "text": "Narayan Pokharel\n\nNarayan Prasad Pokharel (1958–2005) was president of the Nepal branch of the World Hindu Federation. He was killed by gunfire while attending a religious festival after being attacked by six gunmen in Dudrakshya village, Rupandehi District, Nepal (near Butwal) about 300 kilometers west of Kathmandu.\n\nMaoist rebels perpetrated the killing. The killers descended on the festival in motorcycles at dawn and shot Pokharel nine times as he stood outside the guest house where he was staying. \n\nThe Maoists issued a statement condemning Pokharel for \"indulging in sexual exploitation, amassing property illegally, misusing the name of Dalits and trying to garner popular support in favour of monarchy\". The killing was reportedly carried out by the Dalit Mukti Morcha, an underground, banned organisation affiliated to the Maoists whose members are mostly Dalits, the Untouchables at the bottom of traditional Hindu caste-system. The Maoist rebels have been waging a violent campaign to topple the Hindu monarchy.\n\nThe conservative World Hindu Federation is headquartered in India and has branches in many countries throughout the world. \n\nNarayan Pokharel is survived by his two wives and ten children.\n\nNepal's government in June 2009 announced it would honor him as a 'religious martyr'.\n\n"}
{"id": "1856501", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856501", "title": "Doctor Dolittle's Garden", "text": "Doctor Dolittle's Garden\n\nDoctor Dolittle's Garden (1927) is structurally the most disorganised of Hugh Lofting's Doctor Dolittle books. The first part would fit very well into \"Doctor Dolittle's Zoo\", which this book follows. The rest of the book forms a reasonably coherent narrative. From now on, Lofting would write the books in chronological order, and this book has to link the earlier, more light-hearted type of story with what was to come. The lack of structure is compensated for by Lofting's skill in subtly shifting the tone of his writing as the book progresses.\n\nDoctor Dolittle's assistant, Tommy Stubbins, reports on Professor Quetch, curator of the Dog Museum in the Home for Crossbred Dogs. Meanwhile, the doctor has learnt insect languages and hears ancient tales of a giant race of insects. Fascinated, the doctor plans a voyage to find them — but before he does so, one arrives in his garden.\n\n"}
{"id": "1856504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856504", "title": "David Peoples", "text": "David Peoples\n\nDavid Webb Peoples (born February 9, 1940) is an American screenwriter who wrote \"Blade Runner\" (1982), \"Unforgiven\" (1992), and \"12 Monkeys\" (1995). He was nominated for Oscar, Golden Globe, and BAFTA awards. He won the best screenplay awards from the L.A. Film Critics (1991) and National Society of Film Critics (1992) for \"Unforgiven\".\n\nPeoples was born in Middletown, Connecticut, the son of Ruth Clara (née Levinger) and Joe Webb Peoples, a geologist. He studied English at the University of California, Berkeley.\n\nPeoples worked as a film editor in the 1970s, and started writing screenplays during this time, but his writing career began when he was hired as co-writer on \"Blade Runner\" after director Ridley Scott and screenwriter Hampton Fancher separated over creative differences. Following that film's critical success, Peoples was hired by studios to work on films including \"Ladyhawke\" (1985) and \"Leviathan\" (1989).\n\nWith John Milius, Peoples had written a script in the 1980s based on DC Comics' Sgt. Rock series. Arnold Schwarzenegger was originally picked to play the title role; the project was revived in 2010 involving Joel Silver and Easy Company, although with the expectation to set the narrative in a place other than the battlefields of World War II, and therefore make the project independent from the early script.\n\nA number of Peoples' other original screenplays were sold during the 1980s, many after undergoing lengthy studio development periods before seeing production: \"Unforgiven\", \"Soldier\", and \"The Blood of Heroes\". The Blood of Heroes was directed by Peoples and starred Rutger Hauer. Peoples received his greatest recognition for \"Unforgiven\" (1992). He had originally written the script in 1976, when it had the title \"The William Munny Killings\") and appearing in theaters in 1992. Peoples' screwball comedy \"Hero\" also appeared in 1992.\n\nLater in 1992, Peoples began work (in collaboration with wife Janet Peoples) on \"12 Monkeys\" (1995), a science fiction film concerned with time travel and directed by Terry Gilliam. It was inspired by Chris Marker's experimental short film \"La Jetée\". It succeeded both critically and commercially.\n\nIn 1998, \"Soldier\" was filmed by British director Paul W. S. Anderson, albeit on a reduced budget and with additional rewriting by Anderson.\n\nAs of February 2015, Peoples has thirteen writing credits (ten for original screenplays, two for stories, and one for source material), as well as five credits for editing, and three credits for directing. \n\nPeoples' highest accolades to date have been for \"Unforgiven\", which received Oscar, Golden Globe and British Academy nominations, and won L.A. Film Critics (1991) and National Society of Film Critics (1992) awards for best screenplay. Peoples was presented with the Distinguished Screenwriter Award at the 2010 Austin Film Festival.\n\n"}
{"id": "1856513", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856513", "title": "Baseball at the 1936 Summer Olympics", "text": "Baseball at the 1936 Summer Olympics\n\nBaseball was again a demonstration sport at the 1936 Summer Olympics after a 24-year absence. Both of the teams that played in Berlin were from the United States.\n\nThe exhibition game was played on 12 August 1936 in front of 90,000 spectators in Berlin's Olympic Stadium. The two teams were named the \"World Champions\" and the \"U. S. Olympics\". The World Champions won, 6–5.\n\nLeslie Mann, who had pushed strongly for inclusion of baseball as an Olympic sport, was the umpire.\n\nShaw hit a 2-run home run in the first inning. At the end of six innings, the World Champions led 5–4. The Olympics scored in the seventh to tie the game before McNeece hit a walk-off solo home run in the bottom of the seventh to end the game.\n\nSayles was the starting pitcher for the World Champions, relieved by Thompson after giving up 4 runs in the first two innings.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1856518", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856518", "title": "Mark Stolzenberg", "text": "Mark Stolzenberg\n\nMark Stolzenberg is an American film and stage actor, screenwriter, producer, physical comedian and Circus Artist. He is considered by Oscar Talent Search as among the top ten acting teachers on the east coast. He has appeared on the \"Late Show with David Letterman\" and \"All My Children\", and acted in several films. He has also published several books - including \"Be a Clown\" and \"Be a Mime\", which give advice on performing as a clown and mime respectively.\n\nStolzenberg is called upon by major commercial houses to help actors in closeups for product sales, and he teaches \"Acting For Film and Television\" at The New School in Manhattan and at his private studio.\n\nMark Stolzenberg is the director of Assemblies In Schools, a national organization providing in-school programs. Programs fulfill principals' and educators' needs for content that addresses self-esteem and good habits, as well as having anti-drug and anti-alcohol messages. He also is the founder and director of The NY Acting School for Film and TV, a school which offers classes in acting for film, movies and television.\n\nHe is currently producing a feature-film called \"Maximum Fun\".\nHe has played principal roles in a dozen films and over 30 television commercials\n\n"}
{"id": "1856522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856522", "title": "Lovett School", "text": "Lovett School\n\nThe Lovett School is a coeducational, kindergarten through twelfth grade independent school located in north Atlanta, Georgia, United States.\n\nIn September 1926, Eva Edwards Lovett, an innovative educator who emphasized the development of the whole child, officially began the Lovett School with 20 boys and girls in first through third grades at a former home in Midtown Atlanta. By 1936, Lovett was able to become a true country day school, with a move to a wooded campus north of the city off West Wesley Road.\n\nIn 1963, the Lovett School became the focus of a desegregation controversy when it rejected the applications of three black students, including Martin Luther King III. At the center of the debate were the school's ties to the Episcopal Diocese of Atlanta, which had been established in 1954. The national Episcopal Church had issued directives to its member dioceses to integrate their institutions; the Lovett School's refusal to do so placed the bishop of Atlanta, the Rt. Rev. Randolph Claiborne Jr., in a difficult situation. After a number of pickets at the school organized by the Episcopal Society for Cultural and Racial Unity, the diocese and school attempted to resolve the situation by severing ties with each other. In later years, the school revised its admission policy with regards to race, and was once again recognized by the national church as an Episcopal school. Today, no remnants of the 1960s racial policies or turmoil appear to exist, and the school features many multicultural programs.\n\nIn 1963, Coretta Scott King contacted the school and asked if it had a racially nondiscriminatory admissions policy. When the school responded that it would admit black student, her son, Martin Luther King III applied. After King was rejected because of his race, the Episcopal Diocese distanced itself from the school\n\nBy 1964, both the elementary and high schools were accredited by the Georgia Commission of Accreditation (and each year subsequently), and the Upper School was accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools. Aggressive campus building projects continued through the 1960s, 70s and 80s, bringing to campus the Kilpatrick Stadium, Loridans House, Smith Natatorium, Vasser Woolley Library, Fuqua Center, Wallace Gym, Hite Wellness Center, and more. \n\nIn the early 1980s, Lovett became one of the select groups of schools in the country that was invited to nominate seniors for the prestigious Jefferson Scholarship at the University of Virginia and the Morehead Scholarship at the University of North Carolina. \n\nIn 1992, the school philosophy was reviewed and a mission statement was developed. The school also purchased more than of rainforest, known as Siempre Verde, in Ecuador for the purpose of establishing a research and education center. In 1995 Lovett began hosting Summerbridge Atlanta (now known as Breakthrough Atlanta), an academic enrichment program for middle school students from Atlanta's public schools.\n\nDuring the 1998-99 school year, the Lovett School Board of Trustees worked in earnest toward a new strategic plan. Working committees met to plan for the school's future in the areas of governance, educational environment, co-curricular programs, character education, inclusivity, faculty/staff, technology, facilities and endowment/development. The school was named an \"independent school of distinction\" in its Fall 1999 interim review by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools.\n\nThe school celebrated its 75th anniversary in 2000-01 and celebrated with such events as a history exhibition and a reunion for former alumni, faculty, staff and friends of the school. That year, Lovett also embarked on its 75th Anniversary Campaign to raise funds for a construction and improvement plan, which was designed to improve the quality of student and faculty life. The fundraising goal for Phase I of that project was $55 million. Phase II of the project was started in 2003 under new headmaster William S. Peebles IV. It was completed in 2009 and included a new middle school and community center.\n\nThe school instituted its Character Pledge in 2000:\n\n\"We, who are members of the Lovett community, seek to live lives of good character. We believe that good character grows from daily acts of honesty, respect, responsibility, and compassion. We pledge ourselves to develop these ideals with courage and integrity, striving to do what is right at all times.\"\n\nIn 2017, the school announced that Meredyth Cole would replace retiring Headmaster William S. Peebles IV at the end of the 2017-18 school year.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1856524", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856524", "title": "Jim Campbell (ice hockey)", "text": "Jim Campbell (ice hockey)\n\nJames Tower Campbell (born April 3, 1973) is a retired American professional ice hockey player. He played 285 games in the National Hockey League (NHL) for the Tampa Bay Lightning, Florida Panthers, Chicago Blackhawks, Montreal Canadiens, St. Louis Blues and Mighty Ducks of Anaheim before finishing his career in Europe. Campbell was born in Worcester, Massachusetts, but grew up in Westborough, Massachusetts.\n\nAs a youth, Campbell played in the 1987 Quebec International Pee-Wee Hockey Tournament with the Boston Bruins minor ice hockey team.\n\nHe was drafted by the Montreal Canadiens round 2 #28 overall 1991 NHL Entry Draft, but he really broke out with the St. Louis Blues in 1996, scoring 84 points in two seasons. However, a lingering groin problem caught up with him and he started to really slump, bouncing around from team to team, and league to league. He played for the Springfield Falcons in the American Hockey League while contracted to the Tampa Bay Lightning who loaned him to the Philadelphia Phantoms midway through the 05–06 season in exchange for Dan Cavanaugh. While in Philly he posted 12 goals, 17 assists, for 29 points and 46 Penalty minutes in 35 games.\n\nCampbell played 2 games for HC Neftekhimik Nizhnekamsk in the Russian Super League in 2003–04 and spent 2006-07 with EHC Basel in Switzerland's Nationalliga A.\nCampbell, or \"Soup\" as he is well known as, officially hung up the skates in 2008, but still remains a force in the St. Louis hockey scene.\n\nIn 1993 Campbell won Tampere Cup and became top scorer of this tournament.\n\nJim Campbell lives in St. Louis, where he coaches youth teams such as the Ladue Rams 07-08 JV team. He also has been a shooter at Racine Goalie Academy camps, and he currently coaches the Whitfield Warriors at Whitfield School.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1856528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856528", "title": "Camp Zachary Taylor", "text": "Camp Zachary Taylor\n\nCamp Zachary Taylor was a military training camp in Louisville, Kentucky. It opened in 1917, to train soldiers for U.S. involvement in World War I, and was closed three years later. It was initially commanded by Guy Carleton and after the war its commanders included Julius Penn. Its name (and some of its buildings) live on as the Camp Taylor neighborhood of Louisville. It is named for Louisville resident and United States President Zachary Taylor.\n\nNot to be confused with Fort Zachary Taylor, a place in Key West Florida used for a military base.\n\nThe novelist F. Scott Fitzgerald trained at the camp.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1856530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856530", "title": "Howard Koslow", "text": "Howard Koslow\n\nHoward Koslow (September 21, 1924 – January 25, 2016) was an American illustrator.\n\nKoslow was awarded an Art League scholarship to Pratt Institute in New York City. He graduated in 1944 and went on to apprentice with French poster artist Jean Carlu at the latter's New York City studio. Koslow went on to study painting at the Cranbrook Academy of Art in Bloomfield Hills, Michigan, and graphics at the School of Visual Arts.\n\nSome of Koslow's works are at the United States Air Force Academy and The Pentagon. Several of his paintings which were commissioned by NASA are on exhibition at the National Air and Space Museum, Washington D.C. and the NASA Art Gallery, Kennedy Space Center. He is responsible for the design of the Antarctic Treaty issue.\n\n"}
{"id": "1856531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856531", "title": "Tangeh Bolaghi", "text": "Tangeh Bolaghi\n\nTangeh Bolāghi, also transliterated as \"Tange-ye Bolāghi\" (), or Bolāghi Gorge, is an archaeologically significant valley consisting of 130 ancient settlements, dating back to the period between 5000 BCE and the Sassanian dynastic era (224-651 CE). It is situated in Iran’s southern province of Fars, some 7 kilometres from Pasargadae, Iran. This is the valley of the Polvar River, a tributary to Kor River.\n\nArchaeological research since 2005 have discovered a section of the Royal Road (\"Rāh-e Shāhi\" — راه شاهی) connecting Pasargadae to Persepolis, Susa and other regions of the Persian Empire up to Sardis. Excavations have provided archaeologists with a unique insight into the lives of the people living in the Achaemenid dynastic era.\n\nPrior to Sivand Dam being completed in 2007, rescue archaeology was conducted in the area.\n\nIn May 2005, archaeologists unearthed a complete human skeleton at one of the excavation sites, thought to date back to the Sassanid era (224-651). The skeleton, found in a squatting position, is of an adult man. An earthenware item was also found at this site which is considered to be the largest ancient earthenware of its kind ever found in Iran. In April 2006 this find was overshadowed by the discovery of the 7000-years old skeleton of a young woman dating from the Tell-i Bakun Era (the fifth and fourth millennia BC) by a joint Iranian-German team of archaeologists in the same area. The archaeologists further found eight stone beads with the skeleton close to her wrists and neck. \"The girl was buried while sleeping on her side and bending her legs with arms under her head like the sleep position of most children\", according to the head of the team.\n\nWhen the Sivand Dam came into full service in 2007, part of an ancient site including the Achaemenid Shah's Road between Cyrus's tomb and Pasargadae, 130 ancient settlements and a palace ascribed to Darius the Great may have been immersed in water from the rising Polvar River. Yet some reports indicated that there was not enough water flow in the river to fill up the dam completely.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1856534", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856534", "title": "Doctor Dolittle in the Moon", "text": "Doctor Dolittle in the Moon\n\nDoctor Dolittle in the Moon (1928) was intended to be the last of Hugh Lofting's Doctor Dolittle books, and differs considerably in tone from its predecessors; the stripped down narrative does not have room for any of the sub-plots and tales previously present. Instead there is a growing sense of an event about to happen that is almost spooky in tone. There are some very complex passages for a children's book; for example, it begins with a meditation about what the writer expects from the reader and vice versa.\n\nDoctor Dolittle has landed on the Moon and each day brings a new discovery. He meets Otho Bludge the Moon Man, a Stone Age artist who was the only human on the Moon when it broke away from the Earth. The animals of the Moon flock to Doctor Dolittle, and he discovers how to communicate with the intelligent plants there. But will the lunar flora and fauna ever let him leave?\n\nThere is no pretence that the Lunar environment, described in meticulous detail, in any way conforms to what was known to science at the time of writing; thus, the book can be considered as fantasy more than science fiction.\n\n\"Dr. Dolittle in the Moon\" was ahead of its time in that it introduced the concept of 'ecology' (although it did not use that term). Dr. Dolittle helps guide the Lunar Council, headed by Otho Bludge, a ten-foot tall Stone-Age Artist and expatriate terrestrial. Together they negotiate how many seeds each person can legally produce each year.\n\nThe book delves into the subject of \"The Days Before There Was a Moon\", as remembered in tales that Chee Chee the Monkey's grandmother told him when he was little. The story of how the Moon was created is closer to science than some of the other fantasy elements of the book. Otho Bludge, the stone-age sculptor, came to be the man on the Moon because he was transported on the lump of rock that had broken off the Earth, and became the Moon. Alone for many years, the sole human on the Moon, Otho Bludge, weary of rendering his own image as reflected in the water, longed for the sight of another human being. In answer to his longing, he was visited by a vision of Princess Pepiteepa, who poses for him, then fades away.\n\n"}
{"id": "1856544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856544", "title": "Lowell Cunningham", "text": "Lowell Cunningham\n\nLowell Cunningham (born c. 1958/1959) is an American comic book author. He is best known for creating the comic book \"The Men in Black\", which later became the basis for a media franchise.\n\nLowell Cunningham was raised in Franklin, Tennessee, the son of farmers Ralph and Ruby Cunningham, the latter of whom was also an office worker for the state government. A fan of science-fiction and espionage fiction spy-fiction TV shows in his youth, he went on to a bachelor's degree in philosophy from The University of Tennessee in 1985.\n\nFollowing college, Cunningham worked for nearly three years in the circulation department of the Knox County Library in Knoxville, Tennessee. After his 1990 comic-book series \"The Men in Black\" from Aircel Comics finished its run, Cunningham worked as a factory security guard. When his comic became the basis for the 1997 film \"Men in Black\", Cunningham earned what he said in an interview that year was an initial \"six-figure sum. In the low six figures. I've been living off it for five years.\"\n\nThis launched a media franchise that has included the sequels \"Men in Black II\" (2002) and \"Men in Black 3\" (2012), a 2019 spin-off \"\", and an animated television program, \"\", which ran from October 1997 to June 2001. Cunningham went on to co-write four \"Star Wars\" parody short films with director John E. Hudgens, released from 2000 to 2005, and in 2012 returned to comics with About Comics' \"Jack Ooze\", starring a district attorney turned semi-liquid superhero.\n\nAs of 2008, Cunningham lived in West Knoxville, Tennessee.\n\nComics work includes:\n\nStar Wars parodies with John Hudgens include:\n\n"}
{"id": "1856550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856550", "title": "Priest (1994 film)", "text": "Priest (1994 film)\n\nPriest is a 1994 British drama film directed by Antonia Bird in her directorial debut. The screenplay by Jimmy McGovern focuses on a Roman Catholic priest (Linus Roache) as he struggles with two issues that precipitate a crisis of faith.\n\nFather Greg Pilkington, newly assigned to St Mary's parish in inner-city Liverpool, is startled to discover Father Matthew Thomas is engaged in a sexual relationship with rectory housekeeper Maria Kerrigan. Moreover, Father Thomas is a left-wing radical and an outspoken proponent of Liberation Theology, leading him to constant clashes and bickering with the Bishop—who nevertheless appreciates his abilities.\n\nWhile the young protagonist's personal traditional conservatism and religious beliefs are offended by the older priest's blatant disregard for his vow of celibacy, he struggles with his own homosexual urges, especially after he meets Graham at a local gay hangout and the two embark on a physical relationship.\n\nMeanwhile, student Lisa Unsworth has confided she was sexually abused by her father, who confirms her story and displays no guilt nor any desire to stop. Both have revealed their secret in the confessional, however, so Father Greg is required to honour the sanctity of the Sacrament of Penance and not reveal what he has been told. He tries to warn her mother to keep a close watch on her, but the naive woman believes her daughter is safe while in the care of her husband.\n\nWhen Mrs Unsworth discovers her husband molesting Lisa and realises the priest knew what was happening, she lashes out at him. Adding to his torment is his arrest for having sex with Graham in a parked car. He pleads guilty to the charge, and the fact that he is a Catholic priest makes for a sensational news item. The story is headlined on the front page of the local newspaper and, unable to face his parishioners, Father Greg relocates to a remote rural parish headed by a disapproving and unforgiving priest. Father Matthew convinces him to return to St Mary's, and the two preside over a Mass that is disrupted by the loud protests of those opposed to Father Greg's presence at the altar. Father Matthew demands they leave the church. The two priests then begin to distribute the Eucharist, but the remaining parishioners ignore Father Greg and line up to receive communion from Father Matthew. Lisa finally approaches the younger priest, and the two fall into each other's arms sobbing. This last scene effectively reverses Catholic Church's traditional role division, as it is the Priest who asks for and receives the parishioner's forgiveness.\n\n\nThe film was shot on location in Blundellsands, Liverpool, London, and Manchester.\n\nThe film premiered at the Toronto International Film Festival in September 1994. It went into general release in the UK on 17 March 1995 and into limited release in the US the following week. Opening on eight screens, it earned $113,430 on its opening weekend, and eventually grossed $4,165,845 in the US.\n\n\"Priest\" received very vocal condemnation from the church, with the Catholic Church in Ireland in particular calling for a ban on theatrical distribution. This marked the first major disagreement between the Church and the Irish Film Censor Board, who decided to release it anyway. Other Catholic organizations were in an uproar over its release during Easter weekend.\n\nReviews for the film were mixed to average. Rotten Tomatoes gave the film a 67% approval rating based on 24 critical responses, with an average rating of 7/10.\n\nRoger Ebert of the \"Chicago Sun-Times\" rated the film one star out of a possible four, calling the screenplay \"shallow and exploitative.\" He added, \"The movie argues that the hidebound and outdated rules of the church are responsible for some people (priests) not having sex although they should, while others (incestuous parents) can keep on having it although they shouldn't. For this movie to be described as a moral statement about anything other than the filmmaker's prejudices is beyond belief.\"\n\nPeter Stack of the \"San Francisco Chronicle\" called it \"an exceptional movie,\" \"powerful drama,\" and \"a curiously inspiring statement about faith and morality.\" He added, \"This film is extraordinary for the themes it explores—sometimes with delicious humor—beyond the obvious . . . The movie becomes a fascinating glimpse at a vast subject—intolerance vs. understanding. There's some preachiness in \"Priest\", and yet you go away feeling the embrace of something lovely and spiritual.\"\n\nGary Kamiya of \"The San Francisco Examiner\" observed, \"After watching this film, you feel as if Martin Luther had hammered every one of his 95 theses onto various parts of your anatomy, using dull thumbtacks. And although \"Priest\" is not without intelligence, humor and pathos, in the end it's little more than a tendentious melodrama. One can sympathize with [its] progressive politics . . . and still feel that director Antonia Bird and screenwriter Jimmy McGovern have made things much too easy for themselves . . . \"Priest\" is less a work of art than an Op-ed piece; as such, whatever virtues it has exist in the sociological sphere, not the aesthetic.\"\n\nRita Kempley of \"The Washington Post\" said, \"Part soap opera and part propaganda, this sometimes affecting drama presents a one-sided examination of the church's teachings on homosexuality and the celibacy of its clergy . . . Roache, a veteran of British stage and television, gives a stirring performance, which crests in the film's transcendent finale. Beautifully sustained by the actors and well directed by Bird, this last scene is an emotional epiphany for both the characters and the audience, all bathed in the balm of forgiveness.\"\n\nThe film was nominated for the BAFTA Award for Best British Film but lost to \"Shallow Grave\". It won the People's Choice Award at the 1994 Toronto International Film Festival, was named Best New British Feature at the 1994 Edinburgh International Film Festival, and won the Teddy Award at the 1995 Berlin International Film Festival.\n"}
{"id": "1856551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856551", "title": "Historic ferries of the Atlanta area", "text": "Historic ferries of the Atlanta area\n\nHistoric ferries operated on rivers around Atlanta, Georgia area, and became namesakes for numerous current-day roads in north Georgia. Most of the ferries date to the early years of European-American settlement in the 1820s and 1830s, when Cherokee and other Native Americans still occupied part of what became Georgia.\n\nAn assortment of privately owned and operated ferries carried travelers and loads across the Chattahoochee River and several other smaller rivers. Ferry operators often set up small trading posts at their ferry landings. They provided much needed service when there were no bridges, and many rivers ran too high to be forded. After the Civil War, the state and cities began to build bridges to replace the ferries. Some of these are counted among the historic bridges of the Atlanta area.\n\nNote: The first sentence below has no historical documentation. There are no historical references to a Bell's Ferry across Little River. There was a King's Ferry there in the 1830's See book cited below. Consult court documents and information about Bell's Ferry cited here below. \n\nBell's Ferry was a privately run ferry across the Little River in Cherokee County. This location is now part of a narrow arm of Lake Allatoona, and the present-day Bell's Ferry Road crosses the Little River over a bridge. Bells Ferry Road runs from Church Street (former Georgia State Route 3 (SR 3), one block west of former SR 5 on Cherokee Street) in Marietta, north to Marietta Street (former SR 5 in Canton). It is an alternative route between the two county seats, departing well west of former SR 5 (which is now renumbered onto Interstate 575). Until 1984, the section of this road from SR 92 at Oak Grove north to Canton was designated as SR 205.\n\nWithin the city of Marietta, street name signs use the proper \"Bell's\" rather than \"Bells\". The southernmost end of the road is called Church Street Extension, although it is a turn off Church Street, and a straight continuation of Bells Ferry Road. The name change occurs at an arbitrary place in the road (near Cobb Electric Membership Corporation), instead of at a major intersection such as Cobb Parkway. This section was once the main street through the small town of Elizabeth.\n\nAccording to Cherokee County court documents of 1835, James H. Bell operated a ferry across the Etowah River. It has been suggested that, since James Bell owned Land Lot 252/21/2 at the time and as it contained both banks of the Etowah, this was the probable location of his ferry. This site is near present-day Bridge Mill community, northwest of Bells Ferry and Sixes roads.\n\nIn June 1835, Bell sold the land and ferry. In January 1837, Bell purchased Land Lot 478/21/2 on the Etowah. A ferry had been established there in 1834 by Jonathan J. Johnson. Bell operated this ferry until December 1855, when he sold the property to Samuel Lovinggood. He built a bridge across the Etowah near this location. Land Lot 478 is near present-day Victoria Landing on Lake Allatoona.\n\nThese two Bell's ferry locations account for the Bell's Ferry Rd. between Canton and Marietta, and also for the Bell's Ferry roads found across the Etowah River, running north and west from the Land Lot 478/21/2 ferry site.\n\nOriginally Montgomery Ferry. Run by Martin DeFoor.\n\nGrogan's Ferry (later, Martin's Ferry) was a ferry located on the Chattahoochee River in the northern part of Milton County, now present day Fulton County, near Milton.\n\nHeard's Ferry, originally Isom's Ferry, was operated by John Heard (1835–1931). It was named for Judge John Stevens Heard, who served as a corporal in the 9th Georgia Battalion Artillery and is buried in the Heard family cemetery off Heards Ferry Road not far from the ferry location.\n\nThis ferry was near Duluth and crossed over the Chattahoochee River. A street off Peachtree Industrial Boulevard bears its name. The ferry is named for Captain Evan P. Howell and the Howell family who operated it.\n\nNear Palmetto.\n\nIsom's Ferry was operated in the 1860s by James Isom. The ferry went by many names, include Isham's Ferry, Isham's Ford, Phillip's Ford, and Cavalry Ford. John Heard took over Isom's Ferry in 1868 and operated it until 1890 as Heard's Ferry.\n\nJohn Isom – Jr. 1st Lieutenant Appointed 2nd Corporal, March 4, 1862 Private in Captain Sentell's Company, Leyden's, Artillery Battalion. This company subsequently became Company B, 9th Battalion Georgia Artillery. Age 45, Enlisted Atlanta, Ga. March 4, 1862 Under A. Leyden for 3 years or war. From March 4, to May 1, 1862 Present Acted as Corporal up to date May 1, 1862 Elected 2nd Lieutenant, May – June 1862 not stated, May 20, 1862 Bounty Paid $50, Resigned as Captain April 15, 1864 for health reasons, Captured in Berrien County, Georgia, July 16, 1864, Appeared on a Register of Prisoner of War received at Military Prison, Louisville, Kentucky. Received at military prison Louisville, Ky. Released north of the Ohio River. Took oath to US Aug 27, 1864. Complexion Dark, Hair Light, Eyes, Blue, Height 5' 7\", Born in Jackson County, Georgia, in 1818. Buried in Grady County, Ga. Received a Cross of Honor from Atlanta UDC Chapter 18. Dates: 14 Dec 1818-22 Jun 1904.\n\nAlthough the name of the road is now Johnson Ferry, the ferry that crossed the Chattahoochee River at that point was called \"Johnston's Ferry\" because it was operated by William Marion Johnston, who owned the land. A historical marker placed by the Georgia Historical Commission in 1963 states, \"300 ft. W. stood the res. of Wm. Johnston who operated the ferry in the 1850's, where Johnston's Fy. Rd. crosses the Chattahoochee River. July 5, 1864. Gen. Kenner Garrard's cav. div. [US] en route from Marietta to Roswell via this rd., camped on Willeo Cr., from which point he sent a regiment S. to burn the Paper Mills on Soap Creek. July 9. Newton's 4th A. C. div. [US], moving from Vining's Station, traversed this road to Roswell to support Garrard's passage of the river at Shallow Ford -- retracing July 12 & crossing the river at Power's Ferry, July 13. \" -033-93 GEORGIA HISTORICAL COMMISSION 1963\n\nJohnson Ferry Road is a major arterial road between Cobb County and Sandy Springs. From Columns Drive on the northwest riverbank of the Chattahoochee River, southeast to Abernathy Road, and continuing east on Abernathy to Roswell Road (SR 9), the roads have been temporarily designated by GDOT as SR 947.\nThis is due to the heavy volume of rush hour traffic traveling this route to get to and from SR 400, and the failure of Cobb and Fulton counties to come to an agreement on their own. At one time, Fulton County timed the traffic lights to cause morning backups into Cobb. While all of the homes along Abernathy will be destroyed for widening, the neighborhoods along the of Johnson Ferry Road will be spared.\n\nJohnson Ferry and Abernathy roads will be \"broken\", such that they flow directly into each other. Travelers will have to turn to stay straight on the original roads. The 1969 bridge at the former ferry location will be widened between Columns Drive on the Cobb riverbank to Riverside Drive on the Fulton riverbank, from its current four lanes to six. Also added will be bike lanes, wide sidewalks, and a raised road median. Johnson Ferry Road is four lanes on the Fulton side (two southeast of Abernathy), and six lanes on the Cobb side (four north of its own Roswell Road, SR 120).\n\nSee Jones Bridge.\n\nMcGinnis Ferry Road crosses the Chattahoochee River at Suwanee. It connects Gwinnett County on one side with Fulton and Forsyth counties on the other. It serves as the border between Fulton and Forsyth.\n\nMontgomery Ferry was located on the Chattahoochee River near Fort Peachtree, where the Western & Atlantic Railroad crosses the river. It was built by Major James McConnell Montgomery.\n\nIn 1853 it was taken over by Martin DeFoor and became known as DeFoor's Ferry.\n\nJohn B. Nelson (father of Allison Nelson) operated this ferry where Sandy Creek flowed into the Chattahoochee River (now the up-river part of Fulton County Airport). He operated it from 1820 until his murder in 1825.\n\nA short road in Decatur is labelled \"Nelson Ferry Rd.\" It runs a few blocks from W. Ponce De Leon Ave in Decatur, in the direction of Sandy Creek, to Scott Blvd.\n\nThis ferry was located on the Chattahoochee River between Sandy Springs and Roswell. It is approximately 2 miles west of Holcomb Bridge. A Nesbit Ferry Road is found in Sandy Springs and another in Johns Creek. The Sandy Springs one is located in the Dunwoody Panhandle district, an exclusive residential area with million dollar homes, some of which have views of the river.\n\nPace's Ferry belonged to Hardy Pace, one of Atlanta's founders. Paces Ferry Rd. connects historic Vinings in the west, on the Chattahoochee River in Cobb County, to the western edge of Atlanta's Buckhead area in the east. From this end, West Paces Ferry Road, one of Atlanta's best-known streets, passes east through some of the oldest and wealthiest Buckhead neighborhoods. The Georgia Governor's Mansion is on this street. Continuing east, West Paces Ferry Road becomes East Paces Ferry Road after intersecting Peachtree Road in Buckhead's entertainment and nightlife district. East Paces Ferry Road runs as far east as Lenox Square mall, after being severed by SR 400.\n\nPaces Mill Road is a small spur route off Paces Ferry Road connecting Vinings east to Cobb Parkway (US 41/SR 3).\n\nA Battle of Pace's Ferry took place during the Atlanta Campaign of the American Civil War.\n\nThe Powers Ferry (originally spelled \"Power's Ferry\") was another route northwest from Atlanta, upstream from Pace's Ferry. It is named for James Power (1790–1870),a plantation owner, who established this Chattahoochee River ferry in 1835, before Atlanta was founded. The ferry remained in service for nearly 70 years, until a bridge was built in 1903. Union Army soldiers used the ferry crossing in 1864, during the Atlanta Campaign of the Civil War.\n\nThe exact location of the ferry is now the northeastern-most crossing of Interstate 285 over the river; and it is the Fulton-Cobb county line (now the Sandy Springs city limit). The interstate carryies several lanes of traffic in each direction (it had two each way when it opened in 1969). A Powers Island is in the river, now designated as a hiking area associated with the Chattahoochee River National Recreation Area. Presumably, James Power's ferry was located in the vicinity of this island.\n\nThe perimeter highway (I-285) is flanked on its north side by Interstate North Parkway (west) / Riveredge Parkway (east), and on its south side by the ferry's namesake road, each carrying two lanes (one in each direction). Powers Ferry Road runs through Cobb and Fulton counties, terminating at both ends at two different streets named Roswell Road (SR 120 and SR 9, respectively).\n\nThe business district just east of the crossing is called Powers Ferry Landing, located where Northside Drive crosses the road, just east of the former landing. This provides freeway access at Northside Drive (west ramps) and New Northside Drive (east ramps, road and ramps built in a 1990s reconstruction). Signage on the freeway indicates Powers Ferry Road, Northside Drive, and New Northside Drive.\n\nThe Shallow Ford was an important crossing on the Chattahoochee River long before European contact. Located just under a mile downstream from the present Roswell Road bridge, the ford was a landmark on the Hightower Trail, one of the most important long-distance trails through the Georgia Piedmont. The treaty with the Creek in 1818 used the trail to define part of the state's new western boundary, and in 1821 it became and remains part of the boundary between DeKalb and Gwinnett Counties. That line touched the river due north of the Cherokee Country Club, locating the ford precisely. In 1824, Jacob R. Brooks (1787—1872) was licensed by the State to operate a ferry at the Shallow Ford, but It is unclear how long it remained in operation. After the founding of Roswell Mill in the 1830s, a bridge was built just upstream from the ford and the ferry business declined after that. Army maps of the area in 1864 do not show a ferry at the Shallow Ford.\n\nVann's Ferry was the first ferry across the Chattahoochee River, starting in 1804. It was operated by Cherokee leader James Vann (builder of the Vann House). It crossed the river between what are now Hall and Forsyth counties. This crossing area was flooded by the creation of Lake Lanier in the 1950s. This reservoir was formed behind the Buford Dam on the Chattahoochee River. (Both counties were organized later after Indian Removal of the Cherokee.)\n"}
{"id": "1856555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856555", "title": "Jesse Cook", "text": "Jesse Cook\n\nJesse Arnaud Cook is a Canadian guitarist. He is a Juno Award winner, \"Acoustic Guitar\" Player's Choice Award silver winner in the Flamenco Category, and a three-time winner of the Canadian Smooth Jazz award for Guitarist of the Year. He has recorded on the EMI, E1 Music and Narada labels and has sold over 1.5 million records worldwide.\n\nBorn to photographer and filmmaker John Cook and television director and producer Heather Cook, and nephew to artist Arnaud Maggs, Jesse Cook spent the first few years of his life moving between Paris, Southern France and Barcelona.\n\nAfter his parents separated, Cook and his sister accompanied his mother to her birth country, Canada, where he took lessons at Toronto's Eli Kassner Guitar Academy, and eventually studied under Kassner. While Cook was still a teenager, his father retired to the French city of Arles in the Camargue where his neighbor was Nicolas Reyes, lead singer of the flamenco group the Gipsy Kings. During frequent visits to Arles, Jesse Cook became increasingly fascinated by the \"Camargue sound\", the rhythmic, flamenco-rumba approach that could be heard on many corners and cafés in the \"gipsy barrio\".\n\nBack at home, he continued his studies in classical and jazz guitar at Canada's Royal Conservatory of Music, York University, and Berklee College of Music in the United States. He has often quipped that he later attempted to unlearn it all while immersing himself in the oral traditions of gypsy music.\n\nAfter the independent 1995 release in Canada of his debut album, \"Tempest\", he played at the 1995 Catalina Jazz Festival; shortly afterwards, \"Tempest\" entered the American Billboard charts at No. 14.\n\nCook has recorded ten studio albums, five live DVDs and has traveled the world exploring musical traditions that he has blended into his style of rumba flamenco.\n\nIn 1998, Cook was nominated for a Juno Award as Instrumental Artist of the Year. In 2001, he received a Juno Nomination for Best Male Artist. In 2001, Cook won a Juno Award in the Best Instrumental Album category for \"Free Fall\". In 2009, he was Acoustic Guitar's Player's Choice Award silver winner in the Flamenco category (gold went to Paco de Lucia). He is a three-time winner of the Canadian Smooth Jazz award for Guitarist of the Year and numerous other awards.\n\nIn 2011, Cook began filming, directing, and editing his own music videos with the release of \"Virtue\". He has since directed, filmed, and edited eight music videos, 16 episodes of \"Friday Night Music\", and produced, edited, and mixed the PBS Concert Special \"Jesse Cook, Beyond Borders\".\n\nCook has said of his music: \"If you go to Spain and you play [my] music, they’ll say, what is this? They don’t recognize it as Flamenco because it’s not, it’s a hybrid. I love Flamenco, but I also love world music, jazz, pop, Brazilian Samba, and Persian music.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1856558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856558", "title": "The Merrymen", "text": "The Merrymen\n\nThe Merrymen, sometimes written as The MerryMen, are a popular calypso band from Barbados.\n\nThe Merrymen's career spans five decades, from the early-1960s to the 2000s. The Merrymen are still performing as of 2011.\nAt their height they were popular not just throughout the Caribbean, but they had also managed to reach the number one spot on the charts of several European countries.\n\nTheir trademark sound is an upbeat form of calypso, reminiscent of what was popular in the Caribbean in the late-1960s and early-1970s, that samples liberally from Latin, funk, tuk and spouge musical styles.\nLead singer Emile Straker's whistling is one of the most distinctive components of their sound, and often serves as the primary focus of the musical interludes in their songs.\nThey have produced several memorable covers in this style, including versions of \"Island in the Sun\" (originally by Harry Belafonte), \"Jamaica Farewell\", \"Hot Hot Hot\", \"Mary's Boy Child\" and \"Big Bamboo\".\n\nIn addition to their characteristic sound, they are also known for the distinctive costumes they wear while performing and on their album and promotional photographs. The costumes are inspired by troubadour costumes from the High Middle Ages, a nod to one of the inspirations for their name (which may also refer to 14th century outlaws, or Robin Hood's band of \"Merry Men\").\n\nThe Merrymen have performed for British Royalty on three occasions. Also, they have performed for Ronald Reagan and Nancy Reagan during their 1982 visit to Barbados. The Merrymen where invited back by the President and First Lady to the White House. The group has shared the stage with Rich Little, Tom Jones, Dusty Springfield, and many others. They have been the highlight at such venues as The O'Keefe Center, Skydome (Rogers Center), Hamilton Place, Royal Albert Hall, Royal Festival Hall, Massey Hall, and many others. Their most notable appearances were at venues such as the Ontario Place Forum where The Merrymen broke and held the attendance record for 20 years and their 1979 performance at the Super Bowl Half Time Show in Miami plus the Ed Sullivan Show.\n\nOn August 24, 2015 Robin Hunte, Tenor Guitarist of The Merrymen died from cancer.\n\nThey played their first show in 1962 at the Drift Wood Cellar Bar, one of the many bars along \"The Gap\", reportedly getting only the equivalent of Bds$36 (US$18) for their performance.\n\nTheir first album, \"Caribbean Treasure Chest\" was released in 1962.\n\nBand member Chris Gibbs in 2003 became the first person from a Caribbean country to swim the English Channel, in a time of 11 hours 30 minutes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1856564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856564", "title": "Comedy rock", "text": "Comedy rock\n\nComedy rock is rock music mixed with comedy, often satire and irony.\n\nEarly American examples include Stan Freberg, who lampooned artists such as Elvis Presley, Harry Belafonte and the Platters, and Sheb Wooley. The latter's \"Purple People Eater\" reached No. 1 on the \"Billboard\" pop chart in 1958 and stayed there for 6 weeks.\n\nIn Britain during the 1950s and early 1960s comedians such as Charlie Drake and the Goons frequently appeared in the top ten with humorous rock 'n' roll records—the latter, along with Lewis Carroll and Edward Lear, were to influence the word-play of John Lennon's lyrics. Later British groups specialised in comedy: these included the Scaffold, the Bonzo Dog Doo-Dah Band and Alberto y Lost Trios Paranoias. Later in Britain, in the 2000s, Mitch Benn released several studio albums that satirised current affairs using various musical genres, but mainly rock. His 2012 \"Breaking Strings\" album was critically acclaimed for its rock sensibility.\n\nAllmusic described Frank Zappa as the \"godfather\" of comedy rock. The pop rock and folk rock band the Turtles released a comedy rock album, \"The Turtles Present the Battle of the Bands\", in 1968, though the band had previously incorporated humor into their songs. Two of its members, Howard Kaylan and Mark Volman later performed more explicitly comedic songs as Flo & Eddie with their own band and with Frank Zappa.\n\nSeveral modern comedy rock bands have experienced mainstream commercial success. Duos Tenacious D and Flight of the Conchords both released platinum-selling albums and starred in their own respective comedic television series. Dan Finnerty with his the Dan Band has made comedy rock appearances in the Todd Phillips films \"Old School\" and \"The Hangover\" spoofing \"Total Eclipse of the Heart\" and \"Candy Shop\", as well as his live show, which parodies female cover songs and was filmed as a one-hour TV special directed by McG and executive produced by Steven Spielberg. Stephen Lynch from New York developed a following with several Opie and Anthony appearances which led to two specials on Comedy Central. He performed on Broadway with the production of \"Grease\".\n\nWith over 12 million albums sold, song parodist \"Weird Al\" Yankovic remains the highest-selling comedy act in history, with his 2014 album \"Mandatory Fun\" having debuted at #1 on the \"Billboard\" 200, the first comedy album to do so since Allan Shermans \"My Son, the Nut\" in 1963. Rock has been the target of many spoofs and several spoof bands have gone on to have hit records, for example Spinal Tap in the U.S., and the Hee Bee Gee Bees and Bad News in the UK. The band Steel Panther has become a fixture on the Los Angeles Sunset Strip with their parody of 80s glam metal, and their success has opened the doors for other spoof bands such as the Jimi Homeless Experience. Other spoof bands such as Dread Zeppelin, Beatallica and Those Darn Accordions rely on unusual or intentionally contrasting genre-mixing for comic effect. The Residents are well-known for their unusual, heavily distorted covers of pop and rock songs. Comedy rock duo Ninja Sex Party, who have collaborated with Steel Panther on occasion, blend rock and synthpop and have produced songs that parody the dubstep and heavy metal genres. They have enjoyed success from their online popularity. Another band, Primus, is known for their wacky lyrics and comedic music videos. Gorillaz is a British virtual band whose fictional, animated members parody contemporary trends in popular music.\n\nMany bands within the alternative rock and college rock spectrum are known for their incorporation of humorous and satirical songs, with bands such as Mindless Self Indulgence, They Might Be Giants, the Presidents of the United States of America, Bloodhound Gang, System of a Down, Ween and Camper Van Beethoven finding both mainstream and independent success in the United States, as well as successful foreign bands such as Parokya ni Edgar and Knorkator. Punk rock and pop punk has made its contribution to the comedy rock ranks, with such bands as the Aquabats, Blink-182, Bowling for Soup, Patent Pending, Dead Kennedys, the Dead Milkmen, the Meatmen and the Radioactive Chicken Heads.\n\nHeavy metal has also produced many humor-oriented and satirical bands, including Green Jellÿ, Lawnmower Deth, Massacration, M.O.D., Big Dumb Face, Eskimo Callboy, Nanowar of Steel, J.B.O., Psychostick, Crotchduster, Ludichrist, Spinal Tap, Okilly Dokilly and Scatterbrain, whose comedic shtick mostly revolves around parodying heavy metal cliches and ironically spoofing the seriousness of many traditional metal bands, while other bands such as Gwar, Lordi and Rosemary's Billygoat utilize outrageous costumes and over-the-top stage shows. The virtual band Dethklok is death metal spoof featured in the Adult Swim animated TV Show \"Metalocalypse\" and their album \"The Dethalbum\" debuted at No. 21 on the \"Billboard\" Top 200 list.\n\nIn the German rock scene, Die Ärzte are known for their often humorous songs and videos that sometimes parody popular rock, punk, metal or pop cliches, and Die Toten Hosen have released several ironic, humorous songs as well. Some famous Neue Deutsche Welle acts, most notably Falco and Trio, were also known for their often humorous, ironic and satirical lyrics.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1856569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856569", "title": "Pesäpallo at the 1952 Summer Olympics", "text": "Pesäpallo at the 1952 Summer Olympics\n\nPesäpallo, the Finnish variant of baseball, was played as a demonstration sport at the 1952 Summer Olympics in Helsinki, Finland.\n\nThe ceremonial first feed, or pitch, was thrown at 18:00 on 31 July by Lauri Pihkala, who had created the sport. The teams playing were the Finnish Baseball Federation and the Finnish Workers' Sports Federation. In a match with a shortened schedule, the Finnish Baseball Federation won 8–4.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1856570", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856570", "title": "Acceptance (band)", "text": "Acceptance (band)\n\nAcceptance is an American rock band from Seattle, Washington, formed in 1998. They released their first EP, \"Lost for Words\", in 2000, followed by \"Black Lines to Battlefields\" in 2003 (this EP was also re-released with live bonus tracks). Their debut album, \"Phantoms\", was released in 2005.\n\nOn January 26, 2015, it was announced that Acceptance had reunited. They released their first song in over ten years called \"Take You Away\" on May 8, 2015. A second studio album, titled \"Colliding by Design\", was released on February 24, 2017.\n\nThe band toured nationally and shared stages with the likes of The Juliana Theory, Anberlin, Finch, Further Seems Forever, and Seether as well as performing successfully on the Warped Tour and Cornerstone Festival. When the band's debut record, \"Lost for Words\" came out on Seattle indie, Rocketstar Records, and quickly approached the 5000 sales mark, the industry at large began taking notice. When the band recorded a new 5-song demo with Aaron Sprinkle, this industry interest turned into serious courting by several major labels. After putting a professional management team in place to help determine the band's course of action, the band signed to Sony owned, Columbia records, who then released the \"Black Lines To Battlefields\" EP (produced by Aaron Sprinkle) through The Militia Group who had been a long-time supporter of the band and was distributed through Sony owned Red Distribution at the time.\n\nAcceptance later released their debut album \"Phantoms\" on Columbia Records in 2005, again produced by Aaron Sprinkle. The album was one of many included in the Sony rootkit controversy due to its inclusion of the Extended Copy Protection software.\n\nOn August 2, the band announced they were breaking up. Former guitarist Christian McAlhaney posted the following message on their site:\n\nAt the time of the band's breakup, they had already written and demoed songs for a new album. As a \"going away\" for fans, the band put the demo for \"Not Afraid\" up on their Myspace page for download.\n\nJason Vena was featured on the 2010 album \"Vessels\" by Ivoryline on the song \"The Healing\", marking it his first major appearance since the breakup. In 2012, he featured on the new album \"Don't Panic\" from All Time Low on the song \"Outlines\".\n\nKaylan Cloyd has joined Ryan Van Wieringen and Bobby Darling of Gatsbys American Dream to form Search/Rescue. The band released their debut album, titled \"The Compound\", in Japan in late 2007 with a US release in early 2008 on Eyeball Records.\n\nChristian McAlhaney played guitar in Anberlin until November 2014.\n\nNick Radovanovic, Christian McAlhaney, and Kyle Flynn started a band called Thunder Thunder with Jerrod Bettis. Their current status is unknown due to McAlhaney's commitment with Anberlin.\n\nKyle Flynn currently resides in Los Angeles, CA and is working on a script with his brother Kevin Flynn for Warner Bros. Pictures. It has recently been announced that he will be touring with Anberlin.\n\nOn May 30, 2009, Nick Radovanovic posted a remixed version of the song \"So Contagious\" on Acceptance's Myspace page. On Wednesday, September 23, 2009 Nick posted another demo the band had written before their breakup called \"Desperate\" and also a blog entitled \"Hey guys, Nick here\" inside the blog it said:\n\nJust wanted to say hi to everyone and to let you know im throwing up an old acceptance demo we made a while ago titled \"desperate\". this was during our writing sessions for which was supposed to be our newest record. most of you know we never made it that far. again, this is just a rough demo so bear with the quality. hope you guys like it. take care everyone and thanks for all this support. nickrad\nOn January 26, 2015, it was announced that Acceptance would be reuniting at Skate & Surf 2015 in Asbury Park, New Jersey. Since the announcement of their reunion, the band has released a brand new song entitled \"Take You Away\", making it their first single to be released since their 2006 breakup.\n\nOn August 3, 2016 Acceptance announced they would be playing three Texas dates with As Cities Burn & more on October 21 in Dallas at So What?! Music Fest in Deep Ellum, October 22 in Houston at Scout Bar, and October 23 in Austin at Dirty Dog Bar!\n\nOn November 30, 2016, Christian McAlhaney was interviewed for TheTalkhouse, where he elaborated on the band's demise in 2006. Factors contributing to Acceptance's breakup included their debut album, \"Phantoms\", leaking 9 months early, being \"strong-armed by [their] label into releasing a ballad as [\"Phantoms\"'] first single,\" spyware being bundled with the album (as well as other releases by Columbia Records) and a lengthy court battle that resulted in \"Phantoms\" being permanently recalled.\n\nAcceptance have announced they are recording a second studio album, \"Colliding by Design\", which is scheduled for a February 2017 release. A track from the album, \"Diagram of a Simple Man\", was released early to fans who backed the album financially via Pledge Music. On January 26, an official lyric video for the song \"Haunted\" was released on the Rise Records YouTube channel.\n\nOn May 17, 2019, Acceptance confirmed that they were working on and recording new material.\n\nAllMusic biographer Neil Z. Yeung described the band's sound as \"catchy melodies, big choruses, and arena-sized singalongs, incorporating a harder rock edge into their sound,\" reminiscent of Jimmy Eat World, the Juliana Theory, and Anberlin. \"Phantoms\" has been described as alternative pop, pop, pop rock, and rock.\n\nCurrent members\n\nFormer members\nTouring musicians\n\nStudio albums\n\n"}
{"id": "1856571", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856571", "title": "Backyard breeder", "text": "Backyard breeder\n\nA backyard breeder is an amateur animal breeder whose breeding is considered substandard, with little or misguided effort towards ethical, selective breeding. Unlike puppy mills and other animal mill operations, backyard breeders breed on a small scale, usually at home with their own pets (hence the \"backyard\" description), and may be motivated by things such as monetary profit, curiosity, to gain new pets, or to show children \"the miracle of birth\".\n\nA backyard breeder is often a substandard breeder of dogs and horses, and the term is used in this sense by the Animal Welfare community, The American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (ASPCA), larger established breeders and breed clubs in contrast to the more positive term, \"reputable breeder\" that describes operations that use responsible methodology and practices.\n\nIt implies either or both of home breeding for non-commercial reasons or a for-profit small commercial operation that does not adhere to good breeding, care and sale practices. Larger commercial operations of a similar type that breed dogs are usually termed a \"puppy mill\" (especially in North America) or \"puppy farm\". However, as large kennels usually require licensing, many puppy mills are licensed with the USDA.\n\nMany small breeders resent the term and its use. Some do so because they assert that they run small but high-quality \"boutique\" operations. Others argue that their unregistered animals are desirable as companion animals and economical for ordinary people to purchase. Both groups deny that they contribute to low quality within the registered breed or produce unwanted animals.\n\nThis type of breeder is usually regarded by the Animal Welfare, ASPCA, and other groups as likely to exhibit one or more of the following characteristics:\n\nWith horses, the USA horse slaughter issue is closely linked to backyard breeding, as many poorly bred, unregistered horses have no value other than to horsemeat buyers.\n\nThere are campaigns to reduce or eliminate this type of breeding in several countries as well as video campaigns by groups like ASPCA that emphasize the importance of understanding the responsibilities associated with owning an animal. The primary concern of the Animal Welfare community is that this type of breeding is the major source of pet animals and that overproduction has led to overpopulation and hence to welfare issues and the putting down of animals for no other reason than the lack of suitable home. The glamorization of Chihuahuas, which some claim has been generated by Hollywood, has had devastating outcomes for dogs and their adopted owners. Specifically, dog owners like Paris Hilton and commercial-star Gidget the Taco Bell chihuahua as well as films like Beverly Hills Chihuahua have been directly cited as blameworthy. Most dog breed societies and Kennel Clubs have similar concerns but place rather more stress on issues relating to breed standardization and quality.\n\nThere are many animal adoption alternatives that potential pet owners can consider, including animal shelters and the umbrella organization The Shelter Pet Project, animal rescue groups, online organizations such as Petfinder that directly connect prospective adopters with available animals, and print media such as local newspapers).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1856574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856574", "title": "Rychard Bouwens", "text": "Rychard Bouwens\n\nRychard J. Bouwens is an associate professor at the University of Leiden. He is also a former member of the Advanced Camera for Surveys Guaranteed Time Observation team and postdoctoral research astronomer at the University of California, Santa Cruz. He obtained his bachelor's degree in physics, chemistry, and mathematics from Hope College. He then went on to earn his Ph.D. in physics at the University of California, Berkeley under the supervision of Joseph Silk and also worked with Tom Broadhurst.\n\nHe works on the interpretation of high redshift starbursts. He helped create the Bouwens' Universe Construction Set (BUCS), which can simulate arbitrary galaxy fields and calculate any galaxy observables.\n\nThroughout his career, he has broken the record for discovering the most distant galaxy in the universe, including three sources in 2015-2016 with record-breaking spectroscopic redshift measurements at z=7.73 (see EGS-zs8-1), z=8.68 (see EGSY8p7), and z=11.1 (see GN-z11).. In a 2011 \"Nature\" paper, his team discovered galaxy UDFj-39546284 with a photometric redshift of ~10 and was immediately heralded as the most distant source known in the universe. It was later estimated to have a redshift of 11.9.. \n\nIn 2013, he was awarded the Pastoor Schmeitsprijs voor de Sterrenkunde, a prize in the Netherlands given to the researcher (under the age of 40) judged to have made the most significant contribution to astronomy.\n\nOver the course of his career, Bouwens has five published papers in \"Nature\", two as first author, one as second author., and two for \"Nature News & Views\"..\n\n"}
{"id": "1856582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856582", "title": "Tom Herr", "text": "Tom Herr\n\nThomas Mitchell Herr (born April 4, 1956) is an American former professional baseball second baseman, who played in Major League Baseball (MLB) for the St. Louis Cardinals, Minnesota Twins, Philadelphia Phillies, San Francisco Giants, and New York Mets, from to . Although he never won a Gold Glove Award, Herr retired with the highest all-time career fielding percentage for National League second basemen (.989), a figure that was matched and surpassed a few years later when Hall of Famer Ryne Sandberg retired.\n\nHerr started his minor league career with the Johnson City Cardinals in 1975. Two years later, he led the league with 156 hits, 80 runs, 50 stolen bases, and 515 at-bats while playing for St. Petersburg. Herr played in the 1982, 1985, and 1987 World Series – all with the Cardinals, finishing fifth in the MVP voting and making his only appearance in the All-Star Game in 1985. During the 1985 season, he set career highs in nearly every statistical category, including 110 RBIs which came along with only 8 home runs. A rare feat in the modern era of baseball, Herr remains the last NL player to drive in 100 or more runs in a season while hitting fewer than 10 home runs. Paul Molitor is the most recent AL and MLB player to drive in 100 or more runs in a season while hitting fewer than 10 home runs (9 home runs, 113 RBI in 1996). Early in the 1988 season he was traded to the Twins for Tom Brunansky.\n\nIn a 13-season career, he batted .271 with 28 home runs and 574 RBIs in 1,514 games. He had 1,450 career hits in 5349 at bats. An excellent second baseman, Herr recorded a career .989 fielding percentage. He is perhaps best remembered for hitting a walk-off grand slam in extra innings against the New York Mets on April 18, 1987. After Herr hit the grand slam many fans at Busch Stadium threw their stadium give-away seat cushions onto the field in celebration. The grand slam is also well known for Jack Buck's memorable call on KMOX radio. \n\nHerr was hired in November 2004 as the first manager of his hometown Lancaster Barnstormers, a team in the independent Atlantic League of Professional Baseball, and led the team to the 2006 Atlantic League championship. His success in Lancaster piqued the interest of the Washington Nationals, resulting in a managerial position with the Single-A Hagerstown Suns for the 2007 season. The Suns finished last in the Southern Atlantic League in 2007 with a 55–81 record. Following the 2007 season, Herr left the Nationals organization after his request to manage their Double-A affiliate, the Harrisburg Senators, was refused. After leaving the Nationals, he sought employment with other major league organizations, including the St. Louis Cardinals, without success. Herr then sought to return to the Barnstormers as their manager for the 2008 season, but lost out to Von Hayes. In December 2008, the Barnstormers announced that Hayes has hired Herr to be his bench coach in 2009.\n\nTom Herr's oldest son, Aaron, was drafted by the Atlanta Braves in the first round during the 2001 season. He played the 2005 season with the Springfield Cardinals, the Double-A affiliate of the St. Louis Cardinals. Aaron was later traded to the Cincinnati Reds in 2006, and allocated to their former class AA team, the Chattanooga Lookouts. In mid-2006, he was promoted to the class AAA Louisville Bats, where he played his best season. Aaron had a short stint with the class AAA Buffalo Bisons, but a severe groin injury caused him to be reassigned to the Bats for 2008. On March 5, 2009, Aaron joined Tom with the Lancaster Barnstormers for 2009.\n\nJordan Herr, also one of Tom's sons, played for the Lancaster Barnstormers for the 2008 season. At the conclusion of the season, the Chicago White Sox signed him to their Rookie-level affiliate, the Great Falls Voyagers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1856583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856583", "title": "Pontificate", "text": "Pontificate\n\nPontificate is the form of government used in Vatican City. The word came to English from French and simply means \"Papacy\" or \"\"To perform the functions of the Pope or other high official in the Church.\"\" Since there is only one Bishop of Rome, or Pope, \"pontificate\" is sometimes also used to describe the era of a Pope. It must not be confused with the Holy See, which since ancient times referred to the episcopal see of Rome, while the Pontificate in the Vatican City is \"the type of government used there\", and is neither a kingdom nor a republic.\n"}
{"id": "1856584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856584", "title": "Montezuma Marsh", "text": "Montezuma Marsh\n\nMontezuma Marsh is a marsh at the northern end of Cayuga Lake in the Finger Lakes region of New York. Much of the marsh is part of the Montezuma National Wildlife Refuge, which is a major point on the route of many migratory birds, such as Canada geese and mallard ducks.\n\nThe Cayuga valley is an old preglacial valley, which once drained northward into the Ontario Valley. Cayuga Lake and Montezuma Marsh were partially created by the damming effect of huge quantities of glacial drift brought from the Laurentian Shield of Canada and the deepened Ontario valley. (Cayuga Lake was also deepened southward of the area of the marsh.) The valley is completely buried by a drumlin field between the marsh and Lake Ontario.\n\nThe marsh was a barrier to westward travel in colonial times as roads could not be built across it, with the technology of the time. The first major passageway was the Erie Canal, which was completed in 1825 but the digging of the section that crossed the marsh was one of the most difficult, with great loss of life due to mosquito borne fevers (possibly malaria). The cut was finally finished by digging it in the winter (also with great suffering, due to frostbite) when mosquitoes were dormant.\n\n"}
{"id": "1856586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856586", "title": "The Beautiful and Damned", "text": "The Beautiful and Damned\n\nThe Beautiful and Damned, first published by Scribner's in 1922, is F. Scott Fitzgerald's second novel. It explores and portrays New York café society and the American Eastern elite during the Jazz Age before and after the Great War in the early 1920s. As in his other novels, Fitzgerald's characters in this novel are complex, materialistic and experience significant disruptions in respect to classism, marriage, and intimacy . The work generally is considered to be based on Fitzgerald's relationship and marriage with his wife Zelda Fitzgerald.\n\n\"The Beautiful and Damned\" tells the story of Anthony Patch in 1910's New York, a socialite and presumptive heir to a tycoon's fortune; his complicated marriage to Gloria Gilbert; the couple's troubling experience with wealth and status; his brief service in the Army during World War I; and Anthony and Gloria's journey through alcoholism and partying. Gloria and Anthony's story deals with the hardships of a relationship, especially when they are each pitted against the other's selfish attitudes. Once the couple's infatuation with each other fades, they begin to see their differences that do more harm than good, as well as leaving each other with some unfulfilled hopes. \n\nToward the end of the novel, Fitzgerald summarizes the plot and his intentions in writing it, even referring to his own first novel, when a financially successful writer friend tells Anthony:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\"The Beautiful and Damned\" has been described as a morality tale, a meditation on love, money and decadence, and a social documentary. It concerns the characters' disproportionate appreciation of and focus on their past, which tends to consume them in the present. The theme of absorption in the past also continues through much of Fitzgerald's later works, perhaps best summarized in the final line of his 1925 novel \"The Great Gatsby\": \"So we beat on, boats against the current, borne back ceaselessly into the past\", which is inscribed on Fitzgerald's tombstone shared with Zelda in Maryland.\n\nAccording to Fitzgerald critic James West, \"The Beautiful and Damned\" is concerned with the question of 'vocation'—what does one do with oneself when one has nothing to do? Fitzgerald presents Gloria as a woman whose vocation is nothing more than to catch a husband. After her marriage to Anthony, Gloria's sole vocation is to slide into indulgence and indolence, while her husband's sole vocation is to wait for his inheritance, during which time he slides into depression and alcoholism.\n\nFitzgerald wrote \"The Beautiful and Damned\" quickly in the winter and spring of 1921–22 while Zelda was pregnant with their daughter, following editorial suggestions from his friend Edmund Wilson and his editor Max Perkins. Chapters of the book were serialized in \"Metropolitan Magazine\" in late 1921, and in March 1922, the book was published. Following his best-selling \"This Side of Paradise\", Scribner's prepared an initial print run of 20,000 copies, and mounted an advertising campaign. It sold well enough to warrant additional print runs reaching 50,000 copies.\n\nFitzgerald dedicated the novel to the Irish writer Shane Leslie, George Jean Nathan, and Maxwell Perkins \"in appreciation of much literary help and encouragement\".\n\nOriginally called by Fitzgerald \"The Flight of the Rocket\" as a working-title, he had divided it pre-publication into three major parts: \"The Pleasant Absurdity of Things\", \"The Romantic Bitterness of Things\", and \"The Ironic Tragedy of Things\". As published, however, it consists of three, untitled \"Books\" of three chapters each:\n\nThe first book tells the story of the first meeting and courtship of a beautiful and spoiled couple, Anthony and Gloria, madly in love, with Gloria ecstatically exclaiming: \"mother says that two souls are sometimes created together—and in love before they're born.\"\n\nBook two covers the first three years of their married life together, with Anthony and Gloria vowing to adhere to\n\nThe final book recounts Anthony's disinheritance, just as the U.S. enters World War I; his year in the army while Gloria remains home alone until his return; and the couple's rapid, final decline into alcoholism, dissolution and ruin – \"to the syncopated beat of the Jazz Age\".\n\nAt the end, Anthony Patch shows some of the same revisionism as his grandfather in the opening chapter, describing his great wealth as a necessary consequence of his character rather than to circumstance. Fitzgerald writing in the closing lines of the novel:\n\nLouise Field, in \"The New York Times\", found the novel showed Fitzgerald to be talented but too pessimistic, and hoped he \"will some day acquire a less one-sided understanding\".\n\nA film adaptation in 1922, directed by William A. Seiter, starred Kenneth Harlan as Anthony Patch and Marie Prevost as Gloria.\n\nThere is a French and a German translation.\n\nMusician G-Eazy titled one album after the novel and based a number of the song concepts on what was going on in the book and in his life.\n\n E-text.\n"}
{"id": "1856589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856589", "title": "Raffinose", "text": "Raffinose\n\nRaffinose is a trisaccharide composed of galactose, glucose, and fructose. It can be found in beans, cabbage, brussels sprouts, broccoli, asparagus, other vegetables, and whole grains. Raffinose can be hydrolyzed to D-galactose and sucrose by the enzyme α-galactosidase (α-GAL), an enzyme not found in the human digestive tract. α-GAL also hydrolyzes other α-galactosides such as stachyose, verbascose, and galactinol, if present. The enzyme does not cleave β-linked galactose, as in lactose.\n\nThe raffinose family of oligosaccharides (RFOs) are alpha-galactosyl derivatives of sucrose, and the most common are the trisaccharide raffinose, the tetrasaccharide stachyose, and the pentasaccharide verbascose. RFOs are almost ubiquitous in the plant kingdom, being found in a large variety of seeds from many different families, and they rank second only to sucrose in abundance as soluble carbohydrates.\n\nRaffinose may have a form of a white crystalline powder. It is odorless and has a sweet taste approximately 10% that of sucrose.\n\nIt is non-digestible in humans and other monogastric animals (pigs and poultry) who do not possess the α-GAL enzyme to break down RFOs. These oligosaccharides pass undigested through the stomach and small intestine. In the large intestine, they are fermented by bacteria that do possess the α-GAL enzyme and make short-chain fatty acids (SCFA)(acetic, propionic, butyric acids), as well as the flatulence commonly associated with eating beans and other vegetables. These SCFAs have been recently found to impart a number of health benefits. α-GAL is present in digestive aids such as the product Beano.\n\nResearch has shown that the differential ability to utilize raffinose by strains of the bacteria \"Streptococcus pneumoniae\", impacts their ability to cause disease. \n\nProcedures concerning cryopreservation have used raffinose to provide hypertonicity for cell desiccation prior to freezing. Either raffinose or sucrose is used as a base substance for sucralose.\n\nRaffinose is also used in: \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1856592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856592", "title": "Superior General of the Society of Jesus", "text": "Superior General of the Society of Jesus\n\nThe Superior General of the Society of Jesus is the official title of the leader of the Society of Jesus – the Roman Catholic religious order which is also known as the Jesuits. He is generally addressed as Father General. The position sometimes carries the nickname of the Black Pope, because of his responsibility for the largest Catholic, male religious order and is contrasted to the white garb of the pope. The thirty-first and current Superior General is the Reverend Father Arturo Sosa, elected by the 36th General Congregation on October 14, 2016.\n\nThe formal title in Latin is \"Praepositus Generalis\", which may fairly be rendered as \"superior general\" or even, \"president general\". The term is not of military origin (despite popular misconceptions and Ignatius of Loyola's own military background) but is derived from \"general\", as opposed to \"particular\". This usage is consistent with other Catholic religious orders, like the Dominicans' \"master general\", Franciscans' \"minister general\", Carthusians' \"prior general\", and with civil posts such as Postmaster General and Attorney General. The Jesuits are organized into provinces, each with a provincial superior, (usually referred to as the \"Father Provincial\" or just \"Provincial\"), with the head of the order being the \"general superior\", for the whole organization. As a major superior, the Superior General is styled \"Very Reverend\".\n\n\"Black Pope\" is a designation given to the Superior General. The name follows from his leadership of the largest Catholic, male religious order and from the colour of the plain black cassock worn by members of the Society, including the Superior General. This may have originated from a past concern (most prominent around the 16th and 17th centuries) amongst Protestant European countries concerning the relative power of the Jesuits within the Roman Catholic Church, and partly because the Superior General, like the Pope, is elected for life.\nThe Superior General is invested with governing power over all the members of the Society, but customarily leads through Provincial superiors under him. Such power follows from the religious vows that bind members to community life, as in other religious orders.\n\nSuperiors General are elected by the General Congregation of the Society, summoned upon the resignation or death of an incumbent. Superiors General are elected for life and up to recently, as with the Popes, have served life terms. The exceptions being Father Pedro Arrupe (resigned for reasons of failing health) and both his successors, Father Peter Hans Kolvenbach and Father Adolfo Nicolás. On October 2, 2016, General Congregation 36 convened in Rome, convoked by Superior General Nicolás, and it elected Father Arturo Sosa as the thirty-first Superior General.\n\nUntil the 21st century, it was customary for Superior Generals to rule for life. Where they left office before death, the date of death is listed below the date they left office. (Pedro Arrupe resigned in 1983 after a paralyzing stroke.)\nIn 1773, the Jesuits were suppressed by Pope Clement XIV, through the Papal brief \"Dominus ac Redemptor\" on July 21, 1773, executed August 16. The leaders of the order, in the nations where the Papal suppression order was not enforced, were known as temporary Vicars General.\n\nThe temporary Vicars General were:\n\nOn March 7, 1801, Pope Pius VII issued the brief \"Catholicae fidei\", giving approval to the existence of the Society in Russia and allowing the Society there to elect a Superior General for Russia. This was the first step to the Society's eventual restoration.\n\nThe Superiors General in Russia were:\n\nThe order was restored on August 7, 1814, by Pope Pius VII, through the papal bull \"Sollicitudo omnium ecclesiarum\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1856597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856597", "title": "RAQ", "text": "RAQ\n\nRAQ () are a psychedelic/progressive rock jam band quartet from Burlington, Vermont.\n\nThe group formed in 2000 with original keyboard player Marc Scortino and released their first studio effort \"Shed Tech\" a year later. In 2002 Scortino left the band and was replaced by Todd Stoops. Along with Chris Michetti (Guitar), Jay Burwick (Bass) and Greg Stukey (Drums) the band would release their second album \"Carbohydrates Are The Enemy\" later in the year and embark on their first national tour. In 2006 Harmonized Records signed RAQ and helped release their third studio album \"Ton These\". In 2013 the band re-formed with Adrian Tramantano on drums.\n\nIn a 2004 article, music writer Eric Ward Glide Magazine stated, \"They've invented the concept of jambands even having an old school style to bring back in the first place.\"\n\nRAQ ended a 20-month hiatus with the announcement of a show on April 30, 2010 at the Bowery Ballroom in New York City. During the hiatus, Chris Michetti toured with his own band called Michetti. The band originally included Rob O'Dea on bass and Tim Sharbough on drums. Sharbough was eventually replaced by Greg Stukey. Jay Burwick opened with a solo acoustic set for Michetti on a short tour in early 2009, usually joined by Michetti for one or two songs. Michetti usually performed a mix of new songs and various covers, while Burwick performed a mix of new songs, humorous covers, and older RAQ songs.\n\nTodd Stoops co-founded his project, Kung Fu. The band is composed of Chris DeAngelis on bass, Tim Palmieri on guitar, Adrian Tramantano on drums, and Rob Somerville on tenor and soprano saxophone.\n\nIn its first national tour in 2002, the quartet played at North American musical festivals including Tennessee's Bonnaroo Music Festival, California's High Sierra Music Festival, Wakarusa Music and Camping Festival, Florida's Langerado Music Festival, New York's moe.down, Massachusett's Berkshire Mountain Music Festival, and Vermont's Garden of Eden Festival . The band has also appeared at venues such as the Great American Music Hall in San Francisco and the Knitting Factory in New York City. RAQ completed a tour of Colorado performing in front of sold out crowds in Telluride, Denver and Breckenridge .\n\nRAQ was chosen as a 'New Groove of the Month' by Jambands.com, and nominated for a 'Jammy' Award in the category of 'Best New Band'. Relix Magazine featured the band in its Spotlight section, saying \"RAQ has the ability to captivate an audience, dropping jaws with hyperkinetic improvisational splendor.\" The band was also highlighted by Relix as one of the top bands to look out for in the summer of 2005.\n\nReleased: March 1, 2001 (debut album - currently out of print)\n\n\n\nReleased: 2002\n\nRAQ's second release and first to feature keyboardist, Todd Stoops. The album was produced by Grammy Award winner Mark Johnson (Paul Simon, Los Lobos, Jackson Browne) in Colchester Vermont at Egan Media Productions, and mixed by Johnson in Los Angeles.\n\n\n\nReleased: 2006\n\nRAQ's third album. Recorded at Phish guitarist Trey Anastasio's recording studio The Barn, in Vermont.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1856605", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856605", "title": "Jerome Davis (sociologist)", "text": "Jerome Davis (sociologist)\n\nJerome Davis, born Jerome Dwight Davis (December 2, 1891 – October 19, 1979), was an international activist for peace and social reform, labor organizer, and sociologist who founded Promoting Enduring Peace. Early in his life, he campaigned to reduce the workweek and as an advocate of organized labor.\n\nDavis was born in Kyoto, Japan on December 2, 1891 to Jerome Dean Davis and Frances Hooper. His father helped found Doshisha University and then taught there. Davis spent his childhood in Japan.\n\nIn 1904, he came to the US. He attended Newton High School in Newton, Massachusetts and Oberlin Academy. In 1913, he graduated from Oberlin College, where he had served as president of the local Young Men's Christian Association (YMCA). He spent a year in community service at the Minneapolis Civic and Commerce Association, through which he helped obtain a half holiday for workers in some larger local factories.\n\nIn 1914, Davis started a doctorate simultaneously at the Union Theological Seminary and Columbia University. He financed his studies through work. He performed social work, worked as assistant at Broadway Tabernacle, and lectured for the City of New York. During the summer of 1915, he worked as a private secretary to Sir Wilfred Grenfell in Labrador, Canada, and helped him in a wide array of services, from arresting felons to extracting teeth. In the fall of 1915, he took leave to travel to Europe and work with prisoners of war (POWs), which became a lifelong interest.\n\nDavis spent 1916–1918 in Russia. He was sent to Russia to work with German POWs. He also set up YMCA centers for Russian soldiers. Upon American entry into World War I in 1917, he was made head of all YMCA work in Russia. For the US Government, he oversaw distribution of more than a million copies of President Wilson's \"14 Points\" message to German soldiers. He opposed US military intervention in Russia in favor of working with the new Soviet Union. During the 1920s, he returned to Russia several times and continued to advocate for Soviet cooperation. His chart of the construction of the Soviet government was published in \"Workers' Dreadnought\". By 1920, however, he had returned to the States, finished at the Union Theological Seminary and in 1922 obtained a doctorate in sociology from Columbia University.\n\nFrom 1921 to 1924, Davis was an associate professor of Sociology at Dartmouth College. There, he advocated for organized labor. He investigated and published findings on a strike in Manchester, New Hampshire. The Federal Coal Commission then asked him to investigate West Virginia coal mines. He also served as chairman of the Social Service Commission of the Congregational Church.\n\nIn 1924, he founded the Jerome Davis Research fund to support students at Oberlin who \"worked with labor\" to facilitate \"mutual understanding and cooperation in the field of industry.\"\n\nFrom 1924 to 1936, Davis was appointed a Gilbert L. Stark professor of \"practical philanthropy\" at the Yale Divinity School. He helped organize labor forums for the New Haven Trades Council. He developed labor ideals adopted by the Congregational and Christian Churches of America. He chaired the Social Service Commission of Protestant churches in Connecticut. From 1924 to 1936, he also chaired the Legislative Commission on Jails of the State of Connecticut for twelve years and used a $50,000 Federal grant to Connecticut prisoner records, with findings published in 1932.\n\nIn 1928, Davis was a member of the American Society for Cultural Relations with Russia, part of VOKS (Russian \"Vsesoiuznoe Obshchestvo Kul'turnoi Sviazi s zagranitsei\" — Всесоюзное общество культурной связи с заграницей, All-Union Society for Cultural Relations with Foreign Countries).\n\nHis failure to receive tenure at Yale caused controversy, as it was widely believed to be caused by his socialism. The National Education Association, the American Federation of Labor, and the American Association of University Professors investigated the case. Yale denied permission to US Supreme Court Justice Ferdinand Pecora and US Senator Gerald P. Nye to speak on campus for fear of their support for Davis.\n\nFrom 1936 to 1939, Davis served as president of the American Federation of Teachers (AFT). During his second term (1936–1937), Davis helped lead the AFT out of the AFL and into the Congress of Industrial Organizations (CIO).\n\nIn the late 1930s, Davis (along with Denis Nowell Pritt, Upton Sinclair, Bertolt Brecht, Lion Feuchtwanger, and others) defended the Moscow Trials from critics. He claimed that as a former Chairman of the Legislative Commission on Jails in the State of Connecticut, he had seen hundreds of criminals bluntly confess based on overwhelming evidence against them, and he compared that with the reactions of the Moscow Trials defendants. He, however, noted that \"there is a lot of false testimony in a trial of this kind.\"\n\nFor the rest of his life, he worked on and off as visiting professor at colleges and universities. During 1940 elections, Davis served as delegate from Connecticut to the Democratic National Convention. During World War II, he headed YMCA POW efforts in Canada. From 1943 to 1944, he served as a correspondent in the USSR. In 1949, he led a peace mission to Europe.\n\nFrom 1939 to 1945, Davis was involved in a libel lawsuit he filed (see below).\n\nIn 1952, Davis founded the Promoting Enduring Peace, Inc., in which he remained active through 1974. The group issued reprints of articles in pamphlet form that opposed militarism in the mid-1940s and formally formed the organization in 1952. As its first director, he organized many trips to the USSR during the Cold War. In 1957, his group met for two hours with Nikita Khrushchev. In 1970, his group met with Alexei Kosygin. In 1973 and 1975, he led similar trips for educators to China.\n\nThe Gandhi Peace Award was first proposed by him, on March 13, 1959, and presented to the first recipient, Eleanor Roosevelt , the following year.\n\nDavis supported world peace and international cooperation with all nations, which included working with the USSR and China. Most scholars recognize that his support included admiration for Communism and its leaders. Thus, scholar Judy Kutulas writes that Davis found Joseph Stalin an impressive intellectual and one useful during a revolutionary period yet carefully describes him as a non-communist who supported the USSR as an \"inveterate front supporter.\"\n\nHis efforts earned him lifelong opposition. In 1961, the Church League of America wrote: Jerome Davis, who was kicked out of office in the American Federation of Teachers because of his long pro-Soviet, pro-Communist record, has been identified in numerous pages of Government hearings as one of the top Communist Front joiners in the United States. Davis, according to Biddle, had decided that the Fish Committee of 1930 investigating Communism had been \"far more dangerous to liberty and freedom than the pitiful handful of Communists in the United States ever has been. Of all his publications, \"Behind Soviet Power\" stirred up the most attention, at least among anti-communists. Ilya Ehrenburg, a \"Soviet newspaperman,\" wrote its forward. As the libertarian \"The Freeman\" magazine described in 1951 (with bolding added): There is that strong group in the Methodist Church led by Bishop Ward. Many have belonged to every subversive group in the nation. They love Soviet Russia; they apologize for her all the time...<br> The Methodist Church is the largest of the Protestant denominations. Its Federation for Social Action publishes a Social Questions Bulletin, which goes to every Methodist clergyman. <br> The Federation has among its members half the bishops of the church. It includes the heads of their largest theological schools, editors of their papers, heads of various important boards, ministers of their largest churches. To date none of them has been heard to object to what their Federation says. <br> Take Jerome Davis, who apologizes for Russia every day and has backed many organizations which have been named as Communist fronts. His book Behind Soviet Power is one of the most outspoken apologies for Russia yet published. It was sent free of charge to more than 23,000 Methodist clergymen. With it went a letter stating that it was a gift from the Methodist Federation and adding that every clergyman must read it. There are some queer things in that book, as odd as some statements that Davis made when he spoke to the National Convention of the Methodists. Read them and wonder! <br> Soviet concentration camps, according to Davis, are \"simply places to keep criminals.\" On the jailing of innocent people, the shooting of those who oppose Russia in the slave nations, Davis has this to say: \"If Russia sends innocent people to concentration camps and tightens up civil liberties, it's the fault of the American government.\" Just how is not revealed. He further says: \"In the last thirty years the Soviet Union has a record for peace the equal of the United States.\" Again, \"Back of all our fear is the demonstrated success in planned economy, first in the Soviet Union, then Poland and Czechoslovakia.\" I wonder what Davis has read lately? He defended his reputation in a successful libel lawsuit.\n\nFrom 1939 to 1945, Davis sued for libel against the Curtis Publishing, owners of \"Saturday Evening Post\", then the most widely circulated magazine in the US. On September 2, 1939, in an article entitled \"Communist Wreckers in American Labor,\" Benjamin Stolberg, a reporter for Curtis's \"Saturday Evening Post\" called Davis a \"Communist and Stalinist\" and said that the American Federation of Teachers was \"the only AFL union controlled by the Communists\" (at a time when Davis headed the AFT). Davis hired ACLU co-founder and nationally known lawyer Arthur Garfield Hays. Stolberg hired Louis Waldman, an \"Old Guard\" Socialist and anti-communist labor lawyer. The case went before the New York Supreme Court, with Justice John F. Carew presiding.\n\nOn December 4, 1939, Davis brought a $150,000 libel suit in Manhattan against Curtis Publishing and Stolberg. Davis testified that, while in Russia, Stalin admitted to him that the USSR supported the CPUSA. He also testified that AFL president William Green had asked him to take \"decisive action against the communistic influences\" in AFT's Teachers Union Local 5 of New York. He admitted that in the past he had not done enough to fight communism in American labor unions. Dr. Sherwood Eddy, former YMCA president, testified that Davis was a \"loyal American who has always attacked the evils of communism, as I have.\" As proof of damage done, National Youth Administration (NYA) head Aubrey Williams testified that he had refused to hire Davis as NYA's educational director based on the \"Saturday Evening Post\" article. Hays rested the case for Davis by calling two last witnesses, Reverend Dr. Harry Emerson Fosdick of Riverside Church (New York) and Rabbi Stephen Samuel Wise of the American Jewish Congress. Dr. Rev. Fosdick stated, based on a 29-year acquaintance, that \"Jerome Davis couldn't be a Communist if he tried.\" Rabbi Wise stated, based on more than 30 years of acquaintance, that Davis had \"never, never\" been sympathetic to communism.\n\nStolberg testified that the late Dr. Henry R. Linville, who left the AFT to form the Teachers Guild, considered Davis a communist or fellow traveler. The defense then introduced evidence from former CPUSA head Earl Browder, AFL president William Green, and others to document how Stolberg developed the allegedly libelous article. Waldman read from a book by Browder that showed the religiosity does not preclude communism. The AFL letter called on the expulsion of communists from the AFT, implying that Davis failed to do so, which resulted in the 1935 split between the AFT and Teachers Guild. The defense argued that Davis had a standing reputation as a communist or sympathizer. Former \"Saturday Evening Post\" editor William W. Stout testified to that effect; AFT vice president John D. Connors stated that Davis followed the Communist party line. AFL vice president Matthew Woll said that even some communists considered Davis a communist, while Stolberg testified that he still considered Davis a communist. \"American Mercury\" editor Eugene Lyons testified that passages from Davis's book \"The New Russia\" (1933) showed a \"type of Soviet propaganda\" he called a \"whitewash of terror.\" He also stated that in 1939 Davis had the reputation of \"a fellow-traveling Communist.\" Georgetown University president Dr. Edmund A. Walsh testified that Davis \"accepts the ultimate objective of communism and belongs psychologically and morally to the group that advocates it,\" though he falls short of 100% advocacy because he is \"not prepared to go the last ten per cent\". After hearing Curtis Publishing attorney Bruce Bromley read from several books by Davis, Dr. Walsh upped his estimate to \"95 per cent\" and then \"96 per cent.\"\n\nFormer AFT secretary-treasurer Florence Curtis Hanson stated that Davis was not a communist but instead \"motivated by humanitarianism.\" Rev. Dr. Halford E. Luccock, a professor of Homiletics at Yale Divinity School, testified that Davis had criticized the USSR for \"disregard of the human values of free speech and its intolerance of religion.\" He affirmed that Davis was \"against the use of violence and terrorism\" and no \"Stalinist, Communist or labor wrecker.\" Davis shared letters of advocacy from the Patriarch of the Russian Orthodox Church for services rendered to the church. With the court's acceptance, attorney Hays then added $100,000, bringing the total suit to $250,000.\n\nOn the morning of June 8, 1943, Hays summarized Davis's lawsuit as a \"patriotic service.\" That afternoon, just before deliberation began, Judge Carew advised the jury that, under the laws of New York State, \"no man has a legal right to be a Communist.\" On June 9, 1943, a New York Supreme Court discharged the jury for failing to reach a verdict, and Justice Carew ordered the jury not discuss their deliberations. On June 14, 1943, New York Supreme Court Justice Louis A. Valente denied a second motion for immediate retrial and set October 1, 1943, as date to assign retrial action.\n\nOn January 18, 1945, Davis settled with Curtis Publishing and Stolberg in court for $11,000 of his $250,000 libel suit before Supreme Court Justice Ferdinand Pecora.\n\nDavis was blacklisted by the House Un-American Activities Committee in the 1950s.\n\nHe had one daughter, Patricia Davis, and one adopted son, Wilfred Grenfell Davis.\n\nHe died at home in Olney, Maryland, aged 87, on October 19, 1979.\n\nThere are two major sets of his papers:\n\nDavis wrote more than 20 books and numerous articles, including:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1856606", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856606", "title": "Expression pedal", "text": "Expression pedal\n\nAn expression pedal is an important control found on many musical instruments including organs, electronic keyboards and pedal steel guitar. The musician uses the pedal to control different aspects of the sound, commonly volume. Separate expression pedals can often be added to a guitar amplifier or effects unit and used to control many different aspects of the tone.\n\nBecause the source of power with a pipe organ and electronic organs is not generated by the organist, the volume of these instruments has no relationship with how hard its keys or pedals are struck; i.e., the organ produces the same volume whether the key or pedal is depressed gently or firmly. Moreover, the tone will remain constant in pitch, volume, and timbre until the key or pedal is lifted, at which point the sound stops. The expression pedal gives the organist control over the external source of power, and thus the volume, of the instrument, while leaving his or her hands free.\n\nThis system of dynamic control is completely distinct from the act of adding stops (in the case of pipe organs) or pulling more drawbars (in the case of organs and synthesizers). Furthermore, the expression pedal can influence the volume (and, to a lesser degree, the timbre) of a note while it is being played; unlike other instruments, in which the note typically decays after it is first sounded, the organist can increase the strength of a chord or note as it sounds by increasing pressure on the expression pedal.\n\nAn organ expression pedal is typically a large pedal, resembling an oversized automobile accelerator, either partially or fully recessed within the organ console and located either directly above or to the right of the organ's pedalboard. As the pedal is pressed forward with the toes, the volume of the sound is increased; as it is depressed with the heel, the volume is decreased. A stand-alone expression pedal used with electronic keyboards, amplifiers, and effects is usually a smaller pedal made of metal or plastic that can be placed on the floor and then connected to the device with an instrument cable.\n\nBeginning in the nineteenth century, it became common for one or more divisions of pipes in a pipe organ to be enclosed in a wooden box, at least one side of which would consist of palettes that open and close in a manner similar to a Venetian blind. A mechanical (later electrical) mechanism connected the box to a pedal that the organist would use to open and close the shutters, adjusting the perceived loudness of the sound. When the box is shut (or closed), less sound is released into the venue. In American and British organs, the enclosed division is usually named the \"Swell\", and the box surrounding the pipes is usually referred to as the swell box. Thus, the expression pedal is sometimes known as the swell pedal or swell shoe. Larger organs may have two or more expression pedals, allowing the volume of different divisions to be individually controlled.\n\nNo matter how well a swell box is designed, the sound of the pipes is altered by their enclosure. Even when the shutters are fully opened, the pipes do not speak as clearly into the room as they would if they were otherwise unenclosed. In some instances and applications, particularly for the performance of Romantic organ music, enclosure in an expression chamber can remove some of the shrillness of organ pipes. Romantic instruments frequently have more than one division (keyboard) under expression.\nOn pipe organs, the expression pedal should not be confused with the crescendo pedal, which progressively adds stops as it is opened, building from piano to fortissimo.\n\nHistorically, the palettes were manipulated by a ratchet swell, a lever operated by the foot to the side of the console. The lever would fit into two or three different notches, which would lock the position of the lever, and therefore the shutters, in place. To change the position of the shutters, the lever would be kicked sideways to allow it to travel into a new position. The lever was weighted so that its default position was at the top, with the shutters closed. As the lever was lowered, the shutters would open.\n\nThe balanced swell pedal (as pictured above) was developed in the late nineteenth century so that the opening of the box could be fixed at any degree (not just the two or three options of the ratchet swell). This pedal is fitted above the center of the pedalboard. It usually rotates towards and away from the organist through a distance of about 90° from an almost vertical position (\"shut\") to a near horizontal position (\"open\"). Because the pedal is balanced, the organist does not need to hold it in position, and it will balance at any point in its travel. In addition, this location for most expression pedals, above the center of the pedalboard, is much more convenient for use by both feet if necessary (although it is usually operated with the right foot).\n\nCorrespondence to \"The Musical Times\" in 1916 debates the merits of both the ratchet lever and balanced pedal systems of expression. One writer suggests that balanced expression pedals are either too sensitive or not sensitive enough and are unable to produce effective sforzandos (though many improvements have been made since this letter was written), and that he knows many organists who are having balanced expression pedals removed. One organist most open to the change suggests that real crescendos and diminuendos are not possible with a ratchet swell lever, as the notches provided are always either just under or just above the required dynamic level. Furthermore, he states that the balanced expression pedal affords the ease of use of either foot, whereas the previous correspondent desired two ratchet levers, one at either side of the pedalboard.\n\nIn 1933, Aubrey Thompson-Allen created the \"Infinite Speed and Gradation Swell Engine,\" based on the work of Henry Willis III, the grandson of Father Henry Willis. The mechanism allowed for an infinitesimally slow as well as an instantaneous opening and closing of the swell shades. The spring-loaded expression pedal sits in what would be a half-open position on a normal balanced pedal. The mechanism opens the swell shades at a speed relative to how far the expression pedal is pressed. This uncommon device requires a completely different expressive technique than the balanced expression pedal. It is found on very few organs.\n\nReed organs and harmoniums of the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries featured a pair of bellows pedals at the base of the instrument. When the pedals were pumped up and down, air was drawn across the organ's reeds, producing sound. This capability made the harmonium widely available to homes and small churches, though the dynamic range tended to be limited (not to mention that the organist would eventually tire from pumping). However, these free-reed organs had several ways of controlling their volume and expression. Unlike a pipe organ with a blower, the wind pressure of the reed organ can be directly controlled by varying the speed the bellows are operated with the feet, providing a means of producing softer or harsher tones. Harmoniums (where the bellows provided a positive pressure) usually had an air reservoir to reduce the effort needed to pump the bellows when many stops were engaged.\n\nHowever, some instruments had a system to bypass the reservoir if the player wanted more direct control. Reed organs often had a form of swell shutter mechanism. The bellows system and reed ranks were contained in a wooden frame. By covering this frame, a swell box was created. A single shutter in the top of the box, inside the organ case, allowed the volume to be controlled. Since the player's feet were needed to operate the bellows, the swell shutter was controlled by a lever operated by the player's knee. The lever operated horizontally, and the player pushed their knee towards the side of the instrument to open the shutter. The lever returned to the 'closed' position on a spring or a locking mechanism could be engaged to hold the shutter open.\n\nSubsequently, the electrically powered reed organ, and later the electronic organ, allowed the bellows pedals to be replaced with an expression pedal, allowing the organist to effect a more substantial change in volume more easily than was possible with the manually pumped instrument.\n\nThe style of popular organ music of the 20th and 21st centuries such as jazz is highly dynamic and requires constant use of the expression pedal in a fashion very different from that of classical organ literature. This tendency increased with the arrival of spinet organs and modern synthesizers, which offset the expression pedal and reduced the size of the pedalboard. These changes allowed the organist to keep the right foot constantly on the expression pedal, while playing the pedalboard with only the left foot. This ability encouraged organists to operate the expression pedal more often during playing. To take advantage of this style of playing, some expression pedals on modern electronic organs are equipped with toe switches, which allow the organist to make quick registration changes without removing the foot from the pedal.\n\nExpression pedals may be non-linear in response, meaning that slight pressure changes may cause a greater proportional change in volume than a more complete depression. In this regard, each organ tends to be rather distinct.\n\nWhile most electronic effects units for electric guitar use footswitches to turn an effect on and off, some guitar effects, such as wah, vibrato and swell, use a variable treadle-style pedal control similar to a keyboard expression pedal. Historically, these have been built into dedicated pedals for each effect, but modern digital amplifiers and processors allow many different effects to be built into a single, small floor or rack mount unit. Special built-in or plug-in expression pedals can be used with these devices to allow control of multiple effects with a single expression pedal.\n\nUsing the expression pedal, the musician can not only emulate dedicated effects such as wah, but also have real time control of almost any variable such as volume, tone, echo repeats, effect speed, and so on. Some guitar expression pedals include integrated toe switches similar to those for some electric organs. The switches provide even more control, allowing the musician to turn effects on and off, and switch between different amplifiers.\n\nExpression has been taking a detour from pedals with advances in technology making smaller and remote devices possible. Motion controlled expression devices also called inertial audio effects controllers perform the same function as an expression pedal but provided added dexterity, movement dynamics and features.\n\nExpression pedals are typically used to control a range of synthesizer functions and effects parameters in real time. The most common type of pedal contains a simple potentiometer, mechanically linked to the pedal mechanism and electrically connected to the synthesizer, most commonly with a 1/4\" TRS plug. Such pedals either require a built-in analogue pedal input, or must be converted to MIDI or USB for use with software synthesizers running on computers, using one of the commercially available pedal interfaces.\n"}
{"id": "1856611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856611", "title": "Tajikistani Civil War", "text": "Tajikistani Civil War\n\nThe Tajikistani Civil War (), also known as the Tajik Civil War, began in May 1992 when regional groups from the Garm and Gorno-Badakhshan regions of Tajikistan rose up against the newly-formed government of President Rahmon Nabiyev, which was dominated by people from the Khujand and Kulob regions. The rebel groups were led by a combination of liberal democratic reformers and Islamists, who would later organize under the banner of the United Tajik Opposition. The government was supported by Russian border guards.\n\nThe main zone of conflict was in the country's south, although disturbances occurred nationwide. The civil war was at its peak during its first year and dragged on for five years, devastating the country. An estimated 20,000 to 100,000 people were killed by June 1997 and about 10 to 20 percent of the population were internally displaced. On 27 June 1997, Tajikistan president Emomali Rahmon, United Tajik Opposition (UTO) leader Sayid Abdulloh Nuri and Special Representative of the United Nations Secretary-General Gerd Merrem signed the \"\"General Agreement on the Establishment of Peace and National Accord in Tajikistan\"\" and the \"\"Moscow Protocol\"' in Moscow, Russia, ending the war.\n\nThere were numerous prerequisites for civil war in Tajikistan, such as economic hardship, communal way of life of Tajiki people and their high religiousness. Under Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev's 'Perestroika' policies, a Muslim-Democratic movement began to emerge in Tajiki SSR. The backbone of opposition were Party of Tajikistan Muslim Resurrection, Democratic party of Tajikistan and some other movements. Fight between former communist elite and opposition shifted from political sphere to ethnic and clan one.\n\nTensions began in the spring of 1992 after opposition members took to the streets in demonstrations against the results of the 1991 presidential election. President Rahmon Nabiyev and Speaker of the Supreme Soviet Safarali Kenjayev orchestrated the dispersal of weapons to pro-government militias, while the opposition turned to rebels in Afghanistan for military aid.\n\nFighting broke out in May 1992 between old-guard supporters of the government and a loosely organized opposition composed of ethnic and regional groups from the Garm and Gorno-Badakhshan areas (the latter were also known as Pamiris). Ideologically, the opposition included democratic liberal reformists and Islamists. The government, on the other hand, was dominated by people from the Leninabadi region, which had also made up most of the ruling elite during the entire Soviet period. It was also supported by people from the Kulob region, who had held high posts in the Ministry of Internal Affairs in Soviet times. After many clashes, the Leninabadis were forced to accept a compromise and a new coalition government was formed, incorporating members of the opposition and eventually dominated by them. On 7 September 1992, Nabiyev was captured by opposition protesters and forced at gunpoint to resign his presidency. Chaos and fighting between the opposing factions reigned outside of the capital Dushanbe.\n\nWith the aid of the Russian military and Uzbekistan, the Leninabadi-Kulobi Popular Front forces routed the opposition in early and late 1992. The coalition government in the capital was forced to resign. In December 1992 the Supreme Soviet (parliament), where the Leninabadi-Kulobi faction had held the majority of seats all along, convened and elected a new government under the leadership of Emomali Rahmonov, representing a shift in power from the old power based in Leninabad to the militias from Kulob, from which Rahmonov came.\n\nThe height of hostilities occurred from 1992–93 and pitted Kulobi militias against an array of groups, including militants from the Islamic Renaissance Party of Tajikistan (IRP) and ethnic minority Pamiris from Gorno-Badakhshan. In large part due to the foreign support they received, the Kulobi militias were able to soundly defeat opposition forces and went on what has been described by Human Rights Watch as an ethnic cleansing campaign against Pamiris and Garmis. The campaign was concentrated in areas south of the capital and included the murder of prominent individuals, mass killings, the burning of villages and the expulsion of the Pamiri and Garmi population into Afghanistan. The violence was particularly concentrated in Qurghonteppa, the power base of the IRP and home to many Garmis. Tens of thousands were killed or fled to Afghanistan.\n\nIn Afghanistan, the opposition reorganized and rearmed with the aid of the Jamiat-i-Islami. The group's leader Ahmad Shah Masoud became a benefactor of the Tajik opposition. Later in the war the opposition organized under an umbrella group called the United Tajik Opposition, or UTO. Elements of the UTO, especially in the Tavildara region, became the Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan, while the leadership of the UTO was opposed to the formation of the organization.\n\nOther combatants and armed bands that flourished in this civil chaos simply reflected the breakdown of central authority rather than loyalty to a political faction. In response to the violence the United Nations Mission of Observers in Tajikistan was deployed. Most fighting in the early part of the war occurred in the southern part of the country, but by 1996 the rebels were battling Russian troops in the capital city of Dushanbe. Islamic radicals from northern Afghanistan also began to fight Russian troops in the region. \n\nA United Nations-sponsored armistice finally ended the war in 1997. This was in part fostered by the Inter-Tajik Dialogue, a Track II diplomacy initiative in which the main players were brought together by international actors, namely the United States and Russia. The peace agreement completely eliminated the Leninabad region (Khujand) from power. Presidential elections were held on November 6, 1999.\n\nThe UTO warned in letters to United Nations Secretary General Kofi Annan and Tajik President Emomali Rahmon on 23 June 1997 that it would not sign the proposed peace agreement on June 27 if prisoner exchanges and the allocation of jobs in the coalition government were not outlined in the agreement. Akbar Turajonzoda, second-in-command of the UTO, repeated this warning on 26 June, but said both sides were negotiating. President Rahmonov, UTO leader Sayid Abdulloh Nuri and Russian President Boris Yeltsin met in the Kremlin in Moscow on 26 June to finish negotiating the peace agreement. The Tajik government had previously pushed for settling these issues after the two sides signed the agreement, with the posts in the coalition government decided by a joint commission for national reconciliation and prisoner exchanges by a future set of negotiations. Russian Foreign Minister Yevgeny Primakov met with the Foreign Ministers of Iran, Kazakhstan and Turkmenistan to discuss the proposed peace accord.\n\nBy the end of the war, Tajikistan was in a state of complete devastation. The number of those killed was estimated at anywhere from 30,000 to as many as 60,000. Around 1.2 million people were refugees inside and outside the country. Tajikistan's physical infrastructure, government services and economy were in disarray and much of the population was surviving on subsistence handouts from international aid organizations. The United Nations established a Mission of Observers in December 1994, maintaining peace negotiations until the warring sides signed a comprehensive peace agreement in 1997.\n\nJournalists were particularly targeted for assassination and dozens of Tajik journalists were killed. Many more fled the country, leading to a brain drain. Notable individuals murdered include journalist and politician Otakhon Latifi, journalist and Jewish leader Meirkhaim Gavrielov, politician Safarali Kenjayev and four members of the United Nations Mission of Observers in Tajikistan: Yutaka Akino, a noted Japanese scholar of Central Asian history; Maj. Ryszard Szewczyk from Poland; Maj. Adolfo Scharpegge from Uruguay; and Jourajon Mahramov from Tajikistan; and documentary filmmaker Arcady Ruderman.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1856612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856612", "title": "Hampton Fancher", "text": "Hampton Fancher\n\nHampton Lansden Fancher (born July 18, 1938) is an American actor, screenwriter, and filmmaker, best known for co-writing the 1982 neo-noir science fiction film \"Blade Runner\" and its 2017 sequel \"Blade Runner 2049,\" based on the novel \"Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?\" by Philip K. Dick. His 1999 directorial debut, \"The Minus Man,\" won the Special Grand Prize of the Jury at the Montreal World Film Festival.\n\nHe currently resides in the Brooklyn Heights district of New York City. \nFancher was born to a Mexican-Danish mother and an American father, a physician, in East Los Angeles, California. At 15, he ran away to Spain to become a flamenco dancer and renamed himself \"Mario Montejo\". Following the breakup of his marriage to Joann McNabb, he was married to Sue Lyon from 1963 to 1965.\nIn 1959, Fancher appeared in the episode \"Misfits\" of the ABC western television series, \"The Rebel\". In the storyline, Fancher used the name \"Bull\" with Malcolm Cassell as Billy the Kid and Hal Stalmaster as \"Skinny\" plot to rob a bank so that they can live thereafter without working. The \"Misfits\" enlist the help of The Rebel (Nick Adams) in carrying out their doomed scheme.\n\nFancher then played Deputy Lon Gillis in seven episodes of the ABC western, \"Black Saddle\", with Peter Breck. He guest starred on other westerns, \"Have Gun, Will Travel\", \"Tate\", \"Stagecoach West\", \"Outlaws\", \"Maverick\", \"Lawman\", \"Temple Houston\", \"Cheyenne\" (1961 episode \"Incident at Dawson Flats\"), and also \"Bonanza\" (1966 episode \"A Dollar's Worth of Trouble\").\n\nFancher appeared in two Troy Donahue films: 1961's \"Parrish\" and 1962's \"Rome Adventure\" and was cast as Larry Wilson in the 1963 episode \"Little Richard\" of the CBS anthology series, \"GE True\", hosted by Jack Webb. In 1965, he played the role of Hamp Fisher (a name very similar to his own), in the \"Perry Mason\" episode \"The Case of the Silent Six.\" All in all, Fancher played roles in over fifty movies and television shows. During this time, he also had relationships with a variety of women, including Barbara Hershey and Teri Garr. Although he showed interest in screenwriting, it would take until 1977 for Fancher to transition fully into screenwriting. He continues to act occasionally.\n\nAfter trying to option Philip K. Dick's 1968 science fiction novel \"Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?\" in 1975, when the rights were not available, Fancher sent his friend Brian Kelly, a prospective film producer. Dick agreed, and Fancher was brought on to write a screenplay before Kelly enlisted the support of producer Michael Deeley. This made Fancher the executive producer, which led to disagreements with the eventual director Ridley Scott who then brought in David Peoples to continue reworking the script. Scott and Fancher had already clashed concerning the movie, as Scott felt the original script did not sufficiently explore the world of the movie, choosing instead to focus on the interior drama. Fancher's rewriting process was too slow for the production crew, which nicknamed him \"Happen Faster\". The movie was ultimately filmed and released as \"Blade Runner\" (1982).\n\nFancher wrote two films following \"Blade Runner\". \"The Mighty Quinn\" (1989), starred Denzel Washington, and \"The Minus Man\" (1999), starred Owen Wilson. The latter he also directed. More recently, he wrote the story and co-wrote, with Michael Green, the screenplay for \"Blade Runner 2049\" (2017), a sequel to the 1982 film.\n\nIn the early 1980s, Fancher wrote and lived outside of Los Angeles in Topanga Canyon. Fancher appeared in a cameo role in the independent film \"Tonight at Noon\" (2009), directed by Michael Almereyda and starring Rutger Hauer.\n\nFancher provided voiceover commentary for The Criterion Collection edition DVD extras of the film noir adaptations of Ernest Hemingway's short story \"The Killers\", which included the 1946, 1956 and 1964 versions.\n\nIn 2019, Fancher will publish a screenwriting manual, \"The Wall Will Tell You\". The book draws from his extensive film experience.\n\nHis life was the subject of \"Escapes\", a documentary directed by Michael Almereyda and executive-produced by Wes Anderson.\n\n"}
{"id": "1856619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856619", "title": "Ford C6 transmission", "text": "Ford C6 transmission\n\nThe Ford C6 is a heavy-duty automatic transmission built by Ford Motor Company between 1966 and 1996. It was marketed as the \"SelectShift Cruise-O-Matic\". Compared to its predecessor MX transmission, the C6 offered lower weight, less complexity, less parasitic power loss, and greater torque capacity for larger engines. It did this without exceeding the packaging dimensions of the MX. These design goals were in line with those of the C4 for smaller engines.\n\nTo cut down on weight and cost, the C6 featured a simple, three speed Simpson planetary gearset. To aid in shift quality and long term durability, it was the first automatic transmission designed to use the Borg-Warner flexible shift band. It had disc clutch plates instead of bands on the low and reverse gears. It got new composite plates and valving. This gave it the capability to handle 475 ft-lb of torque. \n\nThe C6 was used in trucks and cars with larger engines. Five different bell housing varieties exist for use with various Ford engine families: \n\nThe transmission is very popular in the sport of drag racing today, with units equipped with manual valve bodies and transbrakes, some of which are air shifted. It is also widely used in off-road applications due to its reputation of being nearly indestructible. It does, however, have a reputation of greatly reducing performance as well as fuel mileage, due to the amount of power it requires to operate.\n\nApplications:\n\nThe C6 core components were used to build Ford's first electronically controlled automatic transmission. The E4OD was introduced in 1989 and used in both light and heavy duty applications. The E4OD has four forward speeds and electronic shift controls replacing the hydraulic governor control mechanism of the C6. \n\nApplications:\n\nThe E4OD was updated in 1998 and this new transmission was the last rendition of the C6. It was largely the same as the E4OD, but with some changes to internal components to address durability concerns when put behind the ever increasingly powerful Powerstroke Diesel Engine. In 1999 it was fitted with a PTO for auxiliary equipment attached to heavy duty trucks. To follow Ford's new naming schemes for its other transmissions, Ford renamed the E4OD the 4R100. \n\nApplications:\n\n"}
{"id": "1856623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856623", "title": "Men in Black: The Series", "text": "Men in Black: The Series\n\nMen in Black: The Series, also known as MIB: The Series, MIB: The Animated Series, and Men in Black: The Animated Series, is an American animated television series that originally aired on Kids' WB from October 11, 1997 to June 30, 2001.\n\nThe show features characters from the 1997 science fiction film \"Men in Black\", which was based on the comic book series \"The Men in Black\" by Lowell Cunningham, originally published by Marvel / Malibu Comics. The series was produced by Adelaide Productions Inc., a division of Columbia TriStar Television, and Amblin Television as a half-hour series originally airing on Saturday mornings, and later moving to weekdays during its final run.\n\nThe show is set in an alternate timeline to the \"Men in Black\" film universe. The most significant differences in the series are that Agent K did not retire, and Agent J is still regarded as a rookie. Agent L is, however, a part of the organization, as she was following the events of the first film. Some episodes do incorporate aspects of the film franchise. While the series offers some internal continuity and extended plot arcs, it is primarily presented in standalone episodes. Some recurring themes include exploration of K's origins, as well as J encountering individuals from his life prior to joining MIB.\n\nThe esthetics of the character was designed by comic book artist Miguelanxo Prado.\n\nIn the United States, six episodes from the first half of the first season were issued on three two-episode VHS volumes, all made available on March 16, 1999. The United Kingdom received a similar release on August 19, 2002, however, all six episodes were released on one bumper VHS instead of three two-episode volumes. The release also included a bonus seventh episode, which was actually episode one, billed as the \"pilot episode\". It was then announced that the remainder of the show's first season, episodes 8-13, would be exclusively released in the region, being made available on VHS on January 24, 2003. On July 12, 2004, the first three episodes of the first season were issued on DVD for the first time by UCA Pictures. Further releases were planned, but sales were not strong enough to warrant any other DVD releases from UCA. The entire first season was issued on DVD for the first time on July 4, 2007 in Australia, via Sony Pictures Entertainment. The set contained two discs, one containing seven episodes and the other containing the remaining six. On July 16, 2007, the set was made available in the United Kingdom, however, was this time split up into two separate volumes instead of a whole box set. On May 11, 2012, the entire first season was released on DVD for the first time in the United States, being made available as an exclusive product for Target stores in the country. Thus far, no plans have been announced to issue any further seasons of the show on DVD as of 2019. The series is available on the streaming service Sony Crackle, alternating between the first two seasons and the last two.\n\nDaytime Emmy Awards\n\nA video game based on the series, titled \"\", was released for the Game Boy Color in 1999. A sequel, titled \"\" and also based on the show, was released for the Game Boy Color in 2000. A different version of \"\" was released for the Game Boy Advance in 2001. Another game based on the series, titled \"\", was released for the PlayStation later in 2001.\n\n"}
{"id": "1856624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856624", "title": "Hong Kong Futures Exchange", "text": "Hong Kong Futures Exchange\n\nHong Kong Futures Exchange (HKFE) is a futures exchange in Hong Kong. Established in 1976, it offered a variety of options and futures contracts, linked to stock market indices, stocks, short-term interest rates, and foreign exchange. HKFE is a subsidiary of Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Limited.\n\nThe HKFE went bankrupt in 1987 during the October 1987 global stock market crash when Sino Group chairman Robert Ng, who had been speculating in futures through two Panamanian-registered companies, suffered paper losses of HK$1 billion, but then refused to pay, claiming to be protected by the limited liability of the companies through which he had traded. Trading was also halted on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange for four days. An investigation by the Commercial Crime Bureau of the Royal Hong Kong Police revealed that Ng had avoided required margin calls through collusion with one of his brokers. However, in the end, no charges were laid against Ng because the colonial government of Hong Kong felt that prosecuting him would pose a risk to overall market stability. Instead, a deal was worked out which saw Ng repay HK$500 million, with Hong Kong taxpayers providing the rest of the funds needed by the Exchange through a government bailout.\n\nOn 6 March 2000, a new parent company Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing for the HKFE, the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited, and Hong Kong Securities Clearing was formed.\n\n"}
{"id": "1856628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856628", "title": "Efavirenz", "text": "Efavirenz\n\nEfavirenz (EFV), sold under the brand names Sustiva among others, is an antiretroviral medication used to treat and prevent HIV/AIDS. It is generally recommended for use with other antiretrovirals. It may be used for prevention after a needlestick injury or other potential exposure. It is sold both by itself and in combination as efavirenz/emtricitabine/tenofovir. It is taken by mouth once a day.\nCommon side effects include rash, nausea, headache, feeling tired, and trouble sleeping. Some of the rashes may be serious such as Stevens-Johnson syndrome. Other serious side effects include depression, thoughts of suicide, liver problems, and seizures. It is not safe for use during pregnancy. It is a non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NNRTI) and works by blocking the function of reverse transcriptase.\nEfavirenz was approved for medical use in the United States in 1998. It is on the World Health Organization's List of Essential Medicines, the safest and most effective medicines needed in a health system. As of 2016, it is available as a generic medication. The wholesale cost in the developing world is about per month. As of 2015 the cost for a typical month of medication in the United States is more than .\n\nFor HIV infection that has not previously been treated, the United States Department of Health and Human Services Panel on Antiretroviral Guidelines recommends the use of efavirenz in combination with tenofovir/emtricitabine (Truvada) as one of the preferred NNRTI-based regimens in adults and adolescents and children.\n\nEfavirenz is also used in combination with other antiretroviral agents as part of an expanded post-exposure prophylaxis regimen to reduce the risk of HIV infection in people exposed to a significant risk (e.g. needlestick injuries, certain types of unprotected sex, etc.).\n\nEfavirenz is safe to use during the first trimester of pregnancy. Efavirenz passes into breast milk and breast-fed infants may be exposed to efavirenz.\n\nPeople who have taken this medication before and experienced an allergic reaction should avoid taking further efavirenz dosages. Hypersensitivity reactions include Steven-Johnson syndrome, toxic skin eruptions, and erythema multiforme.\n\nNeuropsychiatric effects are the most common adverse effects, and include disturbed sleep (including nightmares, insomnia, disrupted sleep, and daytime fatigue), dizziness, headaches, vertigo, blurred vision, anxiety, and cognitive impairment (including fatigue, confusion, and memory and concentration problems), and depression, including suicidal thinking. Some people experience euphoria.\n\nRash and nausea may occur.\n\nUse of efavirenz can produce a false positive result in some urine tests for marijuana.\n\nEfavirenz may lengthen the QT interval so should not be used in people with or at risk of torsades de pointes.\n\nEfavirenz may cause convulsions in adult and pediatric populations who have a history of seizures.\n\nEfavirenz is broken down in the liver by enzymes that belong to the cytochrome P450 system, which include both CYP2B6 and CYP3A4. Efavirenz is a substrate of these enzymes and can decrease the metabolism of other drugs that require the same enzymes. However, efavirenz also induces these enzymes, which means the enzyme activity is enhanced and the metabolism of other drugs broken down by CYP2B6 and CYP3A4 can be increased. People who are taking both efavirenz and other drugs metabolized by the same enzymes might need the dose of their drugs to be increased or decreased.\n\nOne group of drugs that efavirenz affects is protease inhibitors, which are used for HIV/AIDS. Efavirenz will lower the blood levels of most protease inhibitors, including aprenavir, atazanavir, and indinavir. At lowered levels, protease inhibitors may not be effective in people taking both drugs, which means the virus that causes HIV/AIDS won’t be stopped from replicating and may become resistant to the protease inhibitor.\n\nEfavirenz also affects antifungal drugs, which are used for fungal infections such as urinary tract infections. Similar to the effect seen with protease inhibitors, efavirenz lowers the blood levels of antifungal drugs like voriconazole, itraconazole, ketoconazole, and posaconazole. As a result of lowered levels, antifungal drugs may not be effective in people taking both drugs, which means that the fungi that cause the infection may become resistant to the antifungal.\n\nEfavirenz falls in the NNRTI class of antiretrovirals. Both nucleoside and non-nucleoside RTIs inhibit the same target, the reverse transcriptase enzyme, an essential viral enzyme which transcribes viral RNA into DNA. Unlike nucleoside RTIs, which bind at the enzyme's active site, NNRTIs act allosterically by binding to a distinct site away from the active site known as the NNRTI pocket.\n\nEfavirenz is not effective against HIV-2, as the pocket of the HIV-2 reverse transcriptase has a different structure, which confers intrinsic resistance to the NNRTI class.\n\nAs most NNRTIs bind within the same pocket, viral strains which are resistant to efavirenz are usually also resistant to the other NNRTIs, nevirapine and delavirdine. The most common mutation observed after efavirenz treatment is K103N, which is also observed with other NNRTIs. Nucleoside reverse-transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) and efavirenz have different binding targets, so cross-resistance is unlikely; the same is true with regard to efavirenz and protease inhibitors.\n\nAs of 2016 the mechanism of efavirenz' neuropsychiatric adverse effects was not clear. Efavirenz appears to have neurotoxicity, possibly by interfering with mitochondrial function, which may in turn possibly be caused by inhibiting creatine kinase but also possibly by disrupting mitochondrial membranes or by interfering with nitric oxide signalling. Some neuropsychiatric adverse effects may be mediated through cannabinoid receptors, or through activity at the 5-HT receptor, but efavirenz interacts with many CNS receptors, so this is not clear. The neuropsychiatric adverse effects are dose-dependent.\n\nEfavirenz is chemically described as (\"S\")-6-chloro-(cyclopropylethynyl)-1,4-dihydro-4-(trifluoromethyl)-2\"H\"-3,1-benzoxazin-2-one. Its empirical formula is CHClFNO. Efavirenz is a white to slightly pink crystalline powder with a molecular mass of 315.68 g/mol. It is practically insoluble in water (<10 µg/mL).\n\nEfavirenz was approved by the FDA on September 21, 1998\n\nOn February 17, 2016, the FDA approved the generic tablet formulation to be produced by Mylan.\n\nIn late-2018, Thailand's Government Pharmaceutical Organization (GPO) announced that it will produce efavirenz after receiving WHO approval.\nEfavirenz code name is DMP 266, discovered by Du pont Pharma. European countries are set to receive the license for manufacturing of Efavirenz in May 1999.\n\nA one-month supply of 600 mg tablets costs approximately US$1,010 in July 2016. In 2007, Merck provided Efavirenz in certain developing countries and countries largely affected by HIV for about US$0.65 per day. Some emerging countries have opted to purchase Indian generics.\n\nIn Thailand, a one month supply of efavirenz + Truvada, as of June 2012, cost 2,900 baht (), and there is a social program for patients who cannot afford the medication. Thailand will produce efavirenz domestically. Its Government Pharmaceutical Organization product costs 180 baht per bottle of thirty 600 mg tablets. The imported version in Thailand retails for more than 1,000 baht per bottle. GPO will devote 2.5 percent of its manufacturing capacity to make 42 million efavirenz pills in 2018, allowing it to serve export markets as well as domestic. The Philippines alone will order about 300,000 bottles of efavirenz for 51 million baht.\n\nIn South Africa, a license has been granted to generics giant Aspen Pharmacare to manufacture, and distribute to Sub-Saharan Africa, a cost-effective antiretroviral drug.\n\nAbuse of efavirenz by crushing and smoking the tablets for supposed hallucinogenic and dissociative effects has been reported in South Africa, where it is used in a mixture known as whoonga and \"nyaope\".\n\nAs of 2016, efavirenz was marketed in various jurisdictions under the brand names Adiva, Avifanz, Efamat, Efatec, Efavir, Efavirenz, Efcure, Eferven, Efrin, Erige, Estiva, Evirenz, Filginase, Stocrin, Sulfina V, Sustiva, Virorrever, and Zuletel.\n\nAs of 2016, the combination of efavirenz, tenofovir, and emtricitabine was marketed in various jurisdictions under the brand names Atripla, Atroiza, Citenvir, Oditec, Teevir, Trustiva, Viraday, and Vonavir.\n\nAs of 2016, the combination of efavirenz, tenofovir, and lamivudine was marketed under the brand name Eflaten.\n"}
{"id": "1856630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856630", "title": "Le Charivari", "text": "Le Charivari\n\nLe Charivari was an illustrated magazine published in Paris, France, from 1832 to 1937. It published caricatures, political cartoons and reviews. After 1835, when the government banned political caricature, \"Le Charivari\" began publishing satires of everyday life. The name refers to the folk practice of holding a charivari, a loud, riotous parade, to shame or punish wrongdoers.\n\n\"Le Charivari\" was started by caricaturist Charles Philipon and his brother-in-law Gabriel Aubert to reduce their financial risk of censorship fines. They also had published the satirical, anti-monarchist, illustrated newspaper \"La Caricature\", which had more pages and was printed on more expensive paper. In \"Le Charivari\", they featured humorous content which was not so political. Ownership of the paper changed often due to issues with government censorship, and related taxes and fines.\n\n\"Le Charivari\" published daily from 1832 to 1936, and then weekly until 1937.\n\nIn 1841 English engraver, Ebenezer Landells, together with Henry Mayhew, used \"Le Charivari\" as the model to establish their \"Punch\" magazine, subtitled \"The London Charivari\".\n\nContributing with lithographs, woodcuts, and (after 1870) with zincographies (gillotage) were:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1856631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856631", "title": "Azcárraga family", "text": "Azcárraga family\n\nThe Azcárraga family is a wealthy Mexican media dynasty. The center of their business empire, Televisa, is the main television network in Mexico and the largest producer and broadcaster of Spanish language media around the world.\n\nNotable family members include:\nCarmela Azcarraga Milmo, daughter of Emilio Azcarraga Vidaurreta\n\n\nBurillo Azcarraga Family\n\nEmilio Braun Burillo (Executive Vicepresident AmericaTeve)."}
{"id": "1856634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856634", "title": "Temukan", "text": "Temukan\n\nTemukan, also known as Tamouken, or Toukeh, Taokè as called by Greeks, is an ancient city in Iran, dating back to the Achaemenid era. It was discovered by archaeologists in April 2005 while conducting excavations at Borazjan in the Dashtestan county of the southern Iranian province of Bushehr.\n\nTemukan hosts the Bardak-e Siyah Palace. Archaeologists had thought that the site was part of Tawwaj, however, other discoveries in the region, made in 2004 and 2005, indicate that Tawwaj is actually several kilometers away from the site.\n"}
{"id": "1856635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856635", "title": "M-20 (Michigan highway)", "text": "M-20 (Michigan highway)\n\nM-20 is a state trunkline highway in the US state of Michigan that runs from New Era to Midland. It crosses through rural Lower Peninsula forest land between the two ends. The highway serves the college towns of Big Rapids and Mt. Pleasant, home of the main campuses of Ferris State University and Central Michigan University, both located near the trunkline.\n\nThe original July 1919 routing took M-20 farther north along a corridor now used by US Highway 10 (US 10). The M-20 designation was shifted south to the current corridor in 1926. The eastern end was truncated from Bay City to Midland in 1960, following the opening of a freeway between the two cities. The western end was rerouted from Muskegon to New Era in 1969.\n\nM-20 starts near Lake Michigan at the US 31 freeway in New Era where it runs east through the Manistee National Forest, crossing the North Branch of the White River near Ferry and the South Branch near Hesperia on the way to White Cloud. There it turns south along M-37 and then east along a new routing following Baseline and Newcosta roads north of the Hardy Dam to meet the US 131 freeway at exit 131 near Stanwood. M-20 turns north, running concurrently along the US 131 freeway to Big Rapids and joins Business US 131 (Bus. US 131) at exit 139. The section along the freeway is listed on the National Highway System (NHS), a system of highways important to the nation's economy, defense and mobility. Together Bus. US 131/M-20 runs along the Perry Street commercial corridor to State Street near the main campus of Ferris State University. The business loop turns north by the campus and at Maple Street, M-20 turns eastward to cross the Muskegon River in downtown Big Rapids, north of the campus. M-20 zig-zags southeast of town bypassing the Canadian Lakes area and turns due east through rural Remus in Mecosta County and the Isabella Indian Reservation in neighboring Isabella County.\n\nIn Mt. Pleasant, M-20 runs near the campus of Central Michigan University crossing the Chippewa River, and the trunkline joins Bus. US 127 along the Mission Street business area to Pickard Road. The highway turns east on Pickard and passes under the US 127 freeway near the Soaring Eagle Casino. From Mt. Pleasant to Midland, M-20 is designed as a four–lane highway with a continuous center turn lane passing through rural forest land. M-20 picks up inclusion on the NHS from this point east.\n\nOnce M-20 reaches Midland on Jerome Street, it crosses the Tittabawassee River north of the Tridge, a three-legged bridge over the confluence of the Tittabawassee and Chippewa rivers. There it joins Business US 10 (Bus. US 10) on a pair of one-way streets: Indian Street (westbound) and Buttles Street (eastbound). The two streets pass by Dow Diamond, home to the Great Lakes Loons, the city's minor league baseball team. Bus. US 10/M-20 then passes some Dow Chemical Company buildings and curves into a freeway stub connecting with the US 10 freeway on the east side of town. This short section of business loop freeway has two interchanges before terminating at one final interchange. At this junction, both Bus. US 10 and M-20 have a common eastern terminus. Traffic headed eastbound on the business loop defaults onto eastbound US 10, and traffic destined for the business loop is fed from the westbound direction of the freeway only.\n\nOn July 1, 1919, M-20 was routed from Ludington to Bay City, Michigan by way of Reed City and Clare. This routing was redesignated as US 10 on November 11, 1926. M-20 would be moved to a new routing.\n\nThe M-20 designation was moved to a new alignment, roughly today's current routing from Midland through Mt. Pleasant, Big Rapids and White Cloud continuing to Muskegon. The western terminus was extended to end at Muskegon State Park in 1932. The last paving would be completed along M-20 in 1957 in Newaygo County.\nThe eastern end of M-20 was converted to freeway between Midland and Bay City in 1958. The former alignment along Midland Road, from Midland, going through Auburn, and ending at Euclid Avenue in Bay City, at the junction of what was then US 23, was returned to local control at the time. US 10 was rerouted along this freeway section and the Interstate 75/US 23 freeway in 1960. M-20 was truncated back to Midland with the US 10 rerouting. The west end was rerouted through Muskegon to end at US 16 in 1961. The former routing connecting to Muskegon State Park became a new state route designated M-213. M-213 was ultimately removed from the trunkline system in 1970. M-20 was completely rerouted on the west end in 1969 from White Cloud replacing M-82 to US 31 in New Era.\nThe Michigan Department of Transportation (MDOT) swapped jurisdiction of M-20 and B-88 with Mecosta and Newaygo counties. The swap was finalized on October 1, 1998. M-20 was rerouted south from Big Rapids, along US 131 from exit 139 to exit 131 at Stanwood. There M-20 replaced B-88 westward to M-37.\n\n"}
{"id": "1856636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856636", "title": "Tempest (Jesse Cook album)", "text": "Tempest (Jesse Cook album)\n\nTempest is the debut album by Jesse Cook. He played guitar, palmas, synthesizer, djembe, and percussion with Mario Melo on congas, percussion, and palmas, Blake Manning on darbuka, timbali, and Andrew Morales on bass guitar. Part of the album's publicity was gained after the tracks \"Tempest\" and \"Breeze from Saintes Maries\" were used by an Ontario cable TV operator as background music for their TV program listing channel. The tracks were played in a loop for many months, \"growing\" on many viewers to the point they called the cable operator to inquire about it.\n\n\nAll selections composed by Jesse Cook.\n"}
{"id": "1856648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856648", "title": "Pierre Millet", "text": "Pierre Millet\n\nPierre Millet (Milet) (19 November 1635 at Bourges – December 31, 1708 at Quebec) was a French Jesuit missionary to the Iroquois people in the area that is now New York State.\n\nHaving graduated Master of Arts, he entered the Society of Jesus at Paris on 3 October 1655, studied philosophy at La Fleche (1657-8), taught various classes there (1658–61) and at Compiegne (1661-3), and then returned to La Fleche for a second year of philosophy (1663-4). He then had a four-year course in theology at the College of Louis-le-Grand in Paris (1664-8).\n\nMillet was ordained in 1668, and sent from to Canada with a number of missionaries. He was assigned to the Mission of St. John the Baptist at Onondaga. They called him \"Teahronhiagannra\", that is \"The Looker-up to Heaven\". In 1671 he made his solemn profession as a Jesuit. Millet served among the Onondaga from 1668 to 1672, at which time he was put in charge of the Mission of St. Francis Xavier at Oneida. Jean de Lamberville succeeded Millet at Onondaga.\n\nBy 1675 had converted the primary Oneida chief to Christianity, allowing him to build a sizable congregation. In February 1684, the Seneca plundered a number of French traders. Millet participated in an Iroquois council and was sent, with Father Jacques de Lamberville, to treat with Governor Joseph-Antoine de La Barre.\n\nThe following year, he was sent with Governor Jacques-René de Brisay de Denonville, to act as interpreter at the Grand Council of Peace to be held at Fort Frontenac. Both he and the other missionaries were duped by the governor and used to lure the Iroquois into the pitfall prepared for them. Denonville set out with a well-organized force to Fort Frontenac, where they met with the fifty sachems of the Iroquois Confederacy from their Onondaga council fire. These fifty chiefs constituted the entire decision-making strata of the Iroquois. They had been lulled into meeting under a flag of truce. Denonville seized, chained, and shipped the Iroquois chiefs to Marseilles, France, to be used as galley slaves. This made it impossible for the missionaries to return to the Iroquois.\n\nMillet remained at Fort Frontenac as chaplain until in 1688 he was sent to replace Lamberville at Fort Niagara. When it was abandoned by the French later that year, he returned to Fort Frontenac where he continued his work as an interpreter and liaison between the French and Iroquois.\n\nFort Frontenac was attacked by Iroquois forces in 1689, and the Indians requested Millet's presence among their dying men. Members of the Onondaga tribe captured him and eventually turned him over to the Oneidas, who gave him the name \"Genherontatie\", i.e., \"The Dead (or Dying) Man who walks\". He was about to be executed when he was adopted by an Indian woman, who gave him shelter until he was released in October, 1694, and went to Quebec. John Gilmary Shea notes that Millet's influence among the Oneida was such that the English worked to have him released, while the French wanted him to remain there. In 1697, a band of Oneidas came to live at Montreal and requested that he be assigned as a missionary.\n\nIn 1700, Millet wrote at least once to Rome (10 August 1700) a mild and submissive complaint that he had not yet obtained the favour of returning to the Iroquois. He asked for prayers of the Society for Tarsha the chief and Suzanne his sister at Oneida, both of whom had acted as hosts to Millet during his captivity. Millet spent his last years at Quebec.\n\nIn 1705, he is described as under treatment for ill health. He lingered on for three years more but, on the last day of 1708, he died.\n\nIn 1926 the Knights of Columbus dedicated a cross in his honor at Fort Niagara.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1856658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856658", "title": "Baron Seaton", "text": "Baron Seaton\n\nBaron Seaton, of Seaton in the County of Devon, was a title in the Peerage of the United Kingdom. It was created on 14 December 1839 for the soldier and colonial administrator Sir John Colborne. He fought at the Battle of Waterloo and was Lieutenant Governor of Upper Canada from 1828 to 1836, acting Governor General of British North America from 1837 to 1838 and Commander-in-Chief of North America from 1838 to 1839. He later served as Commander-in-Chief of Ireland between 1855 and 1860 and was promoted to Field Marshal in 1860. Lord Seaton was succeeded by his eldest son, the second Baron. He was Military Secretary to his father when Commander-in-Chief of the Forces in Ireland.\n\nOn his death the titles passed to his eldest son, the third Baron. He was a Major in the Royal 1st Devon Yeomanry and fought in the Second Boer War and in the First World War. Lord Seaton married Elizabeth Beatrice (d. 1937), daughter of Sir Francis Fuller-Eliott-Drake, 2nd Baronet, of Nutwell Court and Buckland Abbey (a title which became extinct on his death in 1916), in 1887. In 1917 he assumed by Royal Licence the additional surnames of Eliott-Drake. Lord Seaton was childless and on his death in 1933 the title passed to his younger brother, the fourth Baron. He was a Major in the South Staffordshire Regiment and served in the Nile Expedition of 1884 to 1885, where he was severely wounded, in the Second Boer War and in the First World War. Lord Seaton married Caroline Mabel, daughter of Sir Arthur Pendarves Vivian, in 1904. In 1927 he assumed by Royal licence the additional surname of Vivian. He was also childless and on his death in 1955 the barony became extinct.\n\nAnother member of the Colborne family to gain distinction was the Hon. Sir Francis Colborne (1817–1895), second son of the first Baron. He was a General in the Army.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1856662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856662", "title": "Volodymyr Antonovych", "text": "Volodymyr Antonovych\n\nVolodymyr Antonovych (Polish: Włodzimierz Antonowicz; , tr. \"Vladímir Bonifát'evich Antonóvich\"; Ukrainian: Володимир Боніфатійович Антонович, tr. \"Volodymyr Bonifatijovych Antonovych\"; 1834-1908) was a prominent Ukrainian historian, archivist and archaeologist, who was known as one of the most prominent figures of the Ukrainian national revival movement in the Russian Empire. Antonovych was a longtime Professor of Russian history at Saint Vladimir Imperial University of Kiev and a correspondent-member of the St. Petersburg Imperial Academy of Sciences. His main work was an edition of the eight-section \"Archives of South-Western Russia\".\n\nAntonovych was born as Włodzimierz Antonowicz on January 18, 1834 in the village of Makhnovka, in the Kiev Governorate, (now Vinnytsia Oblast, Ukraine) to a landless family of impoverished teachers descended from Polish gentry; Antonovych claimed ancestry to the princely Lubomirski family through his mother. According to his contemporary Franciszek Rawita-Gawroński, Antonovych on various occasions claimed his father was either a Pole named Bolesław Antonowicz or a Hungarian wanderer named János Diday. Viktor Korotkyi, a historian specializing in the history of Kiev University, believed the latter to be Antonovych's biological father. \n\nHis mother, Monika Gurska, was a governess. She married Bonifacy Antonowicz, whose surname Włodzimierz would adopt. The couple lived in Makhnovka, and worked as tutors for the children of local wealthy families. \n\nHis childhood was spent with his grandmother in Makhnovka. From 1840 to 1844, he was educated by his mother alongside her students. In 1844, Antonowicz continued his studies in the Richelieu Lyceum, Odessa, moving to the 2nd Odessa Gymnasium in 1848. In 1850, he enrolled into the Medical Academy of St. Vladimir Imperial University in Kiev at the insistence of his mother; he graduated in 1855. During his studies, he joined the circles of Polish democratically-minded students and took part in the preparations for what became the January Uprising, under the auspice of the London-based Polish Democratic Society. \n\nFrom 1855 to 1856, he practiced medicine at Berdichev and Chornobyl. After the death of his mother in 1856, he returned to St. Vladimir where he studied history and philology under professor Vasily Shulgin. In 1860, he defended his dissertation \"About the Trade of Negroes\".\n\nIn 1857, he co-founded the \"Związek Trojnicki (\"\"Triple Society\"), named after the three Polish territories acquired by Russia in the 18th century: Volhynia, Podolia and the Kiev area. The society's goal was promoting the abolition of serfdom and persuading the peasants to support Polish independence, while preparing the members for their role in the planned all-national uprising. Due to his involvement, Antonowicz became one of the prominent examples of the \"peasant-lovers\" (or \"Reds\"), a loose group of young artists and liberal thinkers fascinated with the peasantry as the \"core of the nation\".\n\nHowever, when the January Uprising finally started, the Society divided. Antonowicz, highly critical of the bourgeoisie and the szlachta, sided with the lower classes and left the society, instead forming a Ukrainian society called the \"Kiev Community\" (Київська громада). The conflict between Antonowicz and his university colleagues was further aggravated by the conflict over the Polish language. While most democratic societies decided to appeal to the tsar and ask for the Polish language to be promoted to the status of language of instruction, Antonowicz ultimately opposed those plans. This conflict further strengthened Antonowicz's pro-Ukrainian stance on one side, and the animosity between him and his colleagues on the other, to the extent that he was considered a \"renegade\" by some. \n\nIn 1861 he changed his name to its Ukrainized form and converted to the Orthodox faith, common among the peasants living around Kiev, as opposed to the Catholicism of the higher class of local society. He also married Varvara Ivanovna Mikhels, and started to teach Latin in the 1st Kiev Gymnasium. During that time, Antonovych was under investigation for traveling with Tadei Rylskyi around Ukrainian villages.\n\nIn July 1863, Antonovych was appointed as a chancellery official to the Governor General of the Southwestern Krai, with an official designation to the Provisional Commission for Review of Ancient Acts (now the Russian Archaeographic Commission). In April 1864, he became its chief editor and held this role until 1880. During his work in the commission, Antonovych edited and published nine volumes of his \"\"Archives of South-Western Russia\"\", a compendium of the history of Right-bank Ukraine during the 16th-18th centuries.\n\nIn 1871, he participated in the 2nd Archaeological Congress in Saint Petersburg, he also had role in preparing and conducting the 3rd (1874) and the 9th (1899) archaeological congresses in Kiev where he made 36 reports. In 1880, Antonovych participated in the Archaeological Congress in Lisbon (so-called the 9th International Congress of Anthropology and Prehistoric Archaeology, predecessor of IUAES).\n\nIn 1897, together with the Ukrainian nobleman Oleksandr Konysky, he established the All-Ukrainian Public Organization. \n\nThroughout his career, the imperial censors and oppressive political atmosphere prevented Antonovych from openly expressing his political views, which tended to be egalitarian and somewhat anarchistic. In addition to being a populist, he was a pioneer of positivist methodology in history, the founder of the so-called \"Kiev Documentalist School\" of Ukrainian historians, and mentor to Mykhailo Hrushevsky. \n\nIn 1870, Antonovych was awarded the Order of St. Stanislav, 2nd degree. In February 1870, the Kiev University stewardship council confirmed him as a magister of Russian history for his dissertation \"Last days of Cossackdom on the right bank of the Dnieper\". In the spring of 1870, he was elected as a staff teacher at St. Vladimir Imperial University in the Russian history department. From 1880-1883 he served as the dean of the Faculty of History and Philology. \n\nIn 1871, the Imperial Senate's department of heraldry confirmed Antonovych as a Court councilor (Надворный советник, \"nadvorniy sovetnik)\" the 7th rank in the Table of Ranks, the system that regulated positions and ranks in the military, government, and court of Imperial Russia.\n\nAmong Antonovych's students were Pyotr Golubovsky, Dmytro Bahaliy, Mykhailo Hrushevskyi, Mytrofan Dovnar-Zapolsky and Ivan Lynnychenko.\n\nHis wife was Kateryna Mykolaivna Antonovych-Melnyk (Dec. 2, 1859 – Jan. 12, 1942) who was a Ukrainian historian and archaeologist from the city of Khorol (today – Poltava Oblast). In the 1880s she participated in the archaeological excavations near Shumsk (today – Ternopil Oblast) and in 1885, she visited Ternopil during her travel around the region. Since 1919, Kateryna worked in the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine. \n\nVolodymyr Antonovych is the father to former Ukrainian minister Dmytro Antonovych and the grandfather to Maryna Rudnytska, professor in the University of Manitoba in Winnipeg, Canada. Maryna Rudnytska was the wife of Jaroslav Rudnyckyj, a Ukrainian-Canadian linguist. \n\n"}
{"id": "1856663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856663", "title": "Tanqueray", "text": "Tanqueray\n\nTanqueray is a brand of gin produced by Diageo plc and marketed worldwide. Although it originated in London, the spirit is now produced in Scotland. In 2016 it displaced Beefeater as the number one global seller. While it does not command a sizable market share in its native market, its largest market is in the United States, where it is the highest-selling gin import, followed by southern Europe.\n\nTanqueray is a London dry gin, reflecting its distillation process and origin in Bloomsbury, London. London dry gin is made by double distilling grain, with select botanicals added during the second distillation. While the Tanqueray recipe is a closely guarded trade secret, it is known to contain four botanicals: juniper, coriander, angelica root, and liquorice, all common botanicals in gin productions overall.\n\nIt is one of Diageo's 16 \"strategic brands\" earmarked for prioritisation in promotion and distribution worldwide.\n\nTanqueray gin was initially distilled in 1830 by Charles Tanqueray in the Bloomsbury district of London. The retail outlet of Edward & Charles Tanqueray & Co was established on Vine Street, London, in 1838. When Charles died in 1868, his son Charles Waugh Tanqueray inherited the distillery, which continued to operate until it was severely damaged during World War II. The only facility to survive the Axis bombing, now known as \"Old Tom\", has since been moved to Cameron Bridge, Scotland.\n\nAccording to one report, Tanqueray became the highest selling gin in the world for the first time in 2016, with nearly three million nine-liter cases sold.\n\nTanqueray London Dry Gin is the original product that was launched in 1830; its key botanicals are juniper, coriander, angelica root and liquorice. It is variously sold as:\n\n\nTanqueray No. Ten (47.3%) was introduced in 2000 and is targeted at the martini market. It is distilled four times.\n\nTanqueray Sterling Vodka was introduced in 1989 and is available in both neutral and citrus flavours. Its main market is the United States.\n\nTanqueray Rangpur Gin was introduced in Maryland, Delaware, and Washington, D.C. in the summer of 2006. It has a strong citrus flavor, the result of rangpur limes, ginger, and bay leaves added during the final distillation process. It is produced at 82.6 proof (41.3% abv) and is now available throughout the United States and Canada.\n\nTanqueray Malacca Gin was introduced in 1997 as a \"wetter\" alternative to the London Dry, with more sweetness and a stronger fruit palate (most notably grapefruit). Discontinued in 2001, Diageo announced on 12 December 2012 (12/12/12) that a 16,000-case limited edition of Tanqueray Malacca would be relaunched in the US, Great Britain, Canada and Western Europe for February 2013.\n\nPast offerings from Tanqueray also include both orange and lemon gins, produced from 1937 until 1957, when both were phased out.\n\nNotable spirit ratings for Tanqueray included a string of Double Golds (for its basic London Dry) for 2005–2007 from the San Francisco World Spirits Competition. Later years' competitions saw Tanqueray win a string of silver medals and then another double gold in 2012. Wine Enthusiast rated the London Dry in its \"96–100\" category in 2007 but gave it a \"90–95\" in 2011.\n\nTanqueray introduced \"Mr. Jenkins,\" a white-haired, well-dressed spokes-character, in print ads in 1994. He was retired a few years later. In 2004 Tanqueray introduced “Tony Sinclair,” a younger, foppish hipster socialite spokes-character in television ads created by Conor Sheridan. Sinclair's catchphrase at the end of every commercial was “Ready to Tanqueray?” followed by a manic laugh. He was portrayed by Rodney Mason as a madcap socialite of Black British descent.\n\nIn the 2008 Mad Men episode \"The Jet Set,\" Duck Phillips receives a crate of Tanqueray from his British former advertising colleagues as enticement for Duck to initiate their firm's purchase of Sterling Cooper.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1856665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856665", "title": "M-113 (Michigan highway)", "text": "M-113 (Michigan highway)\n\nM-113 is a state trunkline highway in the US state of Michigan that runs in Grand Traverse County from M-37 near Hannah to US Highway 131 (US 131) in Walton Junction. The trunkline runs through farm fields and woodlands in a rural area of the county. It connects the highways at its termini with the village of Kingsley. First designated in November 1927, the highway was extended in 1940 by adding the southernmost section near Walton Junction which was originally part of US 131.\n\nM-113 starts west of Hannah at an intersection with M-37 south of Traverse City. The highway runs eastward through farm fields. In the community of Hannah, the highway passes the church and the cemetery before exiting. On the other side of the town, M-113 continues through more fields to Kingsley. The trunkline follows Main Street through the business district in the village. On the east side of town, M-113 runs through fields mixed with scattered groves of trees. The landscape transitions over to woodland just before a 90-degree turn south near Fife Lake. About south of the turn, M-113 intersects M-186 at the latter's western terminus. M-113 continues due south past Camp Pugsley Correctional Facility and turns southeasterly. The highway crosses a line of the Great Lakes Central Railroad, and then it terminates at US 131 north of the Manistee River and the Grand Traverse–Wexford county line.\n\nM-113 is maintained by the Michigan Department of Transportation (MDOT) like other state highways in Michigan. As a part of these maintenance responsibilities, the department tracks the volume of traffic that uses the roadways under its jurisdiction. These volumes are expressed using a metric called annual average daily traffic, which is a statistical calculation of the average daily number of vehicles on a segment of roadway. MDOT's surveys in 2009 showed that the highest traffic levels along M-113 were the 7,519 vehicles daily in the village of Kingsley; the lowest count was 4,161 vehicles per day south of the M-186 intersection. No section of M-113 has been listed on the National Highway System, a network of roads important to the country's economy, defense, and mobility.\n\nM-113 was first designated in November 1927 from M-42 (now M-37) west of Kingsley to a three-way junction with US 131 and M-131 near Fife Lake; at this time, US 131 ended west of Fife Lake and M-131 continued east to Fife Lake and north to Petoskey. M-42 was replaced by M-37 in 1940, and US 131 was relocated around the same time north from Walton Junction along a new alignment to Fife Lake. From Fife Lake northward, US 131 replaced M-131. The portion of M-131 running west of Fife Lake became M-186 and the remaining piece of US 131 between M-113 and Walton Junction was added to M-113. The routing has remained unchanged since.\n\n"}
{"id": "1856667", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856667", "title": "Matagorda Island", "text": "Matagorda Island\n\nMatagorda Island (), \"Spanish for\" \"thick brush,\" is a 38-mile (61 km) long barrier island on the Texas Gulf coast, located approximately south of Port O'Connor, in the southernmost part of Calhoun County. The traditional homeland of the Karankawa people, the island is oriented generally northeast-southwest, with the Gulf of Mexico on the east and south, and Espiritu Santo Bay on the west and north. It is separated from San José Island to the south by Cedar Bayou, and is separated from the Matagorda Peninsula to the north by Pass Cavallo. It has one permanent resident, Clint Bennetsen, and is accessible by boat only. It has a land area of .\n\nMatagorda Island State Park occupies on the northeastern end of the island. The remainder of the island is devoted to wildlife refuges managed by the Texas Parks and Wildlife Department and the United States Fish and Wildlife Service and is known as Matagorda Island National Wildlife Refuge and State Natural Area.\n\nThe land that is now Matagorda Island State park was acquired in 1940 by condemnation from the Hawes, Hill, and Little families (but not the Wynne-Murchison interests) for use as a temporary training facility for the World War II era.\n\nMatagorda Island State Park was featured as a \"survival location\" by the main characters in the book \"Day by Day Armageddon\" by J.L. Bourne. The island is also featured as a principle location in the book Powersat by Ben Bova. Life on the island in the late 1800s is described in the book \"A Texas cowboy, or, Fifteen years on the hurricane deck of a Spanish pony\" by Charles A. Siringo\n\nThe climate in this area is characterized by hot, humid summers and generally mild to cool winters. According to the Köppen Climate Classification system, Matagorda Island has a humid subtropical climate, abbreviated \"Cfa\" on climate maps.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1856672", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856672", "title": "Jerry Moss", "text": "Jerry Moss\n\nJerome S. Moss (born May 8, 1935) is an American recording executive, best known for being the co-founder of A&M Records, along with trumpeter and bandleader Herb Alpert.\n\nAfter graduating with a degree in English from Brooklyn College and a stint in the Army, Moss began his music career by promoting \"16 Candles\", a hit for the Crests on Coed Records. In 1960 he moved to California where he teamed up with Alpert, forming Carnival Records in 1962 and running the company from an office in Alpert's garage. Discovering that the name was already taken, they dubbed their new-found company A&M Records.\n\nAfter the A&M label was purchased by PolyGram, the two men went on to form Almo Sounds in 1994, a new record label which continues to operate.\n\nMoss and Herb Alpert were inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 2006 as nonperformers.\n\nJerry Moss, is a longtime horse-breeder and owner who received the largest ever first-place purse from the Kentucky Derby in 2005 after the victory of the first horse he had ever entered in that race, Giacomo.\n\nIn 2004 Moss was appointed to the California Horse Racing Board, replacing longtime television producer Alan Landsburg.\n\nGiacomo was named in honor of a friend of theirs, rock musician Sting, who has a son by the same name. The colt's dam was named Set Them Free, a reference to Sting's song \"If You Love Somebody Set Them Free\".\n\nLike Giacomo, Moss named another runner after a connection to The Police. Zenyatta, a half-sister to the multiple grade I winner Balance, was purchased as a $60,000 yearling at the Keeneland Sales in September 2005. Zenyatta retired with only one loss and a record 20-19-1-0. Zenyatta is the only female horse ever to win the Breeders' Cup Classic. In 2010 she was American Horse of the Year.\n\nMoss lives in Los Angeles, California.\n"}
{"id": "1856675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856675", "title": "21st Century Tower", "text": "21st Century Tower\n\nThe 21st Century Tower is a 55-story skyscraper along the Sheikh Zayed Road in Dubai. When it was completed in 2003 it took the title of the world's tallest residential building, ultimately being surpassed by the Eureka Tower in Melbourne, Australia and the Q1 tower in Australia's Gold Coast.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1856681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856681", "title": "Baseball at the 1956 Summer Olympics", "text": "Baseball at the 1956 Summer Olympics\n\nBaseball was again a demonstration sport at the 1956 Summer Olympics in Melbourne. Though it was nominally the \"foreign\" demonstration sport of that Olympiad, Australia had a long history of baseball dating back to at least 1889. The Australians were the first to field a full team in an exhibition match against the United States, represented by a detachment from the United States Far East Command. Many Sheffield Shield cricket players – who were quite successful at baseball as a winter sport – were unable to be selected on the basis that they were professional players.\n\nThe game was played on 1 December 1956 from 12:30pm at the Melbourne Cricket Ground. Due to the field being set up between the running tracks, right field was only 225 feet, so special ground rules were put in place, stating that a ball hit over the running track on the full will be declared a home run, where one that bounces (or rolls) on or over the track shall be declared a ground rule double. This rule was put in place to stop baseball cleats damaging the track for the events after the baseball.\n\nAs the visiting team, the Americans batted first, scoring 2 runs off 3 hits. Australia did not strike back until the bottom of the 2nd inning, when Chalky White of South Australia hit a solo home run off Vane Sutton. Sutton made up for his error in the top half on the 3rd, with a grand slam to send the score out to a commanding 6–1. The Americans again put the pressure on Australia in the fifth inning as two errors led to another 2 runs to the US, putting them in a comfortable position.\n\nThe game was eventually called at 2:40pm, after six completed innings and a final score 11–5, with the Americans batting first. Very few fans were present at the start of the game, but according to Cava, 114,000 had arrived by the sixth inning. This was due to the finals for the 1500 metres, 4x400 metres relay and finish of the men's marathon.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1856693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856693", "title": "Michael Deeley", "text": "Michael Deeley\n\nMichael Deeley (born 6 August 1932) is an Academy Award-winning British film producer known for such motion pictures as \"The Italian Job\" (1969), \"The Deer Hunter\" (1978), and \"Blade Runner\" (1982). He is also a founding member and Honorary President of The British Screen Advisory Council.\n\nDeeley's father was a director at McCann Erickson advertising agency, and his mother was a PA to several film producers. He attended Stowe School in Buckinghamshire. After national service in Malaysia during the time of the Malayan Emergency, Deeley gained a job through his mother's connections as an assistant editor at a company run by Douglas Fairbanks, Jr.\n\nWhile editing the TV show \"The Adventures of Robin Hood\", with his editing partner Harry Booth, the two men decided to branch into a producing partnership. They raised funds to produce a 26-minute short starring Peter Sellers and Spike Milligan, \"The Case of the Mukkinese Battle Horn\" (1956). This launched Deeley's producing career, although he did not give up his day job as editor for a few years.\n\nIn the early 1960s, Deeley worked for the UK sales arm of MCA Universal for three years, then he returned to producing with \"Sandy the Reluctant Nudist\" (1963, released 1966) and \"One Way Pendulum\" (1964). The latter was made for Woodfall Film Productions who hired Deeley in 1964 to assist Oscar Lewenstein, a director of the company.\n\nDeeley produced \"Robbery\" (1967), which began a partnership with Stanley Baker to make films through Oakhurst Productions. Along with Baker and Barry Spikings, Deeley also established a series of companies all called \"Great Western\" which did a variety of activities, including music festivals (Great Western Festivals), and investments (Great Western Investments). Great Western Investments later took over British Lion Films in 1973, and Deeley was appointed managing director of that company.\n\nWhile at British Lion, Deeley oversaw the release of \"Don't Look Now\" (1973) and \"The Wicker Man\" (1973), and helped finance \"The Internecine Project\", \"Who?\", \"Ransom\" (all 1974) and \"Conduct Unbecoming\" (1975). He also produced \"The Man Who Fell to Earth\" (1976).\n\nIn 1976, after British Lion merged with EMI Films, Deeley and Spikings took over management of that company. They oversaw a series of mostly successful films including \"Convoy\", \"The Driver\", \"Death on the Nile\", \"Warlords of Atlantis\" and \"The Deer Hunter\" (all 1978).\n\nDeeley left the company in 1979 and produced \"Blade Runner\" (1982).\n\nIn 1984 Deeley was appointed CEO of Consolidated, a TV company seeking to further expand into US network television.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1856695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856695", "title": "Jesper Strömblad", "text": "Jesper Strömblad\n\nClas Håkan Jesper Strömblad (born 28 November 1972) is a Swedish musician who is the guitarist of the bands Dimension Zero and Cyhra, formerly In Flames and The Resistance. He is best known as founder and former guitarist/drummer/keyboardist of the Swedish pioneering melodic death metal band In Flames, guitarist of the band Sinergy, bassist of Ceremonial Oath and drummer of HammerFall. In 2013 he joined MDM band Nightrage as a session guitarist.\n\nIn March 2004, Strömblad (along with Björn Gelotte) was ranked No. 70 out of 100 Greatest Heavy Metal Guitarists of all time by \"Guitar World\".\n\nStrömblad began playing music at age 4, with a violin he played until age 12, when he no longer considered the violin a 'cool' instrument to play and began playing guitar instead.\n\nIn 1990, Strömblad became the new bass player of the band once known as \"Striker\" (although he was not in the band under that name), then \"Desecrator\" and finally Ceremonial Oath where he quit by 1993 after not being able to have at least some control in the band. The band disbanded in 1996, but in 2012, it was announced the band reunited for an appearance at the inaugural edition of The Gothenburg Sound festival, that took place 5–6 January 2013 at Trädgår'n in Gothenburg, Sweden, with Strömblad back in the band.\n\nOscar Dronjak also of Ceremonial Oath, formed a new band being \"HammerFall\" inviting Strömblad as the drummer in 1993. He is falsely listed as the drummer on their album \"Glory to the Brave\" for an unknown reason when the real drummer on the album was Patrik Räfling; the album was released in 1997 when Strömblad left, although he still helped the band write songs later on.\n\nIn 1995, Strömblad formed his second side project which he started with former In Flames guitarist Glenn Ljungström, first being known as \"Agent Orange\" then Dimension Zero, which he is the guitarist (formerly bassist) of the band, but the band has been on hiatus since 2008. In May 2014, Dimension Zero was confirmed for the 2015 edition of the Gothenburg Sound Festival, at Trädgårn.\n\nIn 1997, when Kimberly Goss was in Dimmu Borgir they did a joint tour with In Flames. Goss spoke to Strömblad about forming a female fronted band, but due to time constraints, they were unable to get together. When Goss quit Dimmu Borgir and moved to Sweden, the duo recorded the album \"Beware the Heavens\".\n\nIn 2003, Strömblad and his then In Flames bandmate Björn Gelotte formed another side project called All Ends, for which they both wrote the music. They recorded a demo although neither had intended to be part of the group, due to In Flames' demanding schedule.\n\nDuring 1993, his last year in Ceremonial Oath, he wanted to write music and combine melodies inspired by Iron Maiden, with the brutality of death metal; something which Jesper stated he had never heard any band do. Now free to control a band, he formed his first one, In Flames, which was considered a side project. The first demo he made with the band was shipped off to the owner of Wrong Again Records, who liked it so much that the owner spoke to the members of In Flames and with the pressure of being signed, the band lied stating they had 13 songs done; intrigued, the band got the deal over the phone. He started in the band as the drummer but switched to guitar by the next year.\n\nOn 3 February 2009, the band's website inflames.com announced that Jesper would not be participating in the Australia/South America/Japan tour in order to get treatment for his alcohol abuse problems. Niclas Engelin was announced as his replacement for the tour. On 12 February 2010, the same problem that he had in 2009, he announced that he was leaving In Flames permanently for personal problems and health issues.\n\nJesper's comment on the situation was:\nAfter playing Call of Duty online with Marco Aro from The Haunted, Strömblad discussed to Aro about forming a new band in which Aro joined; that band is \"The Resistance\", alongside fellow former In Flames guitarist Glenn Ljungström, Alex Losbäck Holstad of Despite, and Chris Barkensjö of Carnal Forge, forming in 2011. Strömblad left the resistance on March 1, 2016.\n\nStrömblad was working on another side project together with Roland Johansson, former singer of the Swedish metal band Sonic Syndicate.\n\nIn 2012, the Swedish movie \"Isdraken\", directed by Martin Högdahl and for which Strömblad composed the original music was released in theatres.\n\n\nStrömblad currently uses ESP Guitars guitars, and used them extensively before the release of \"Reroute to Remain\". Jesper used his signature variant of the EX series, until he switched to Gibson guitars with his bandmate Björn Gelotte. He switched to Gibson for the release of Reroute To Remain, but returned to ESP for the recording of Soundtrack To Your Escape. Strömblad returned to Gibson after the release of Come Clarity. Jesper used the Gibson Flying V and Explorer Voodoo models, as well as some Gibson Gothic Explorer II's. Since his departure from In Flames and his subsequent formation of The Resistance Strömblad has been playing the Cort Z-Custom 2. After joining Cyhra in 2017, Jesper began using ESP Guitars again, alongside bandmate Euge Valovirta. His main guitar is currently a snow white ESP Snakebyte.\n\nJesper is known for using the Peavey 5150/6505 amp. Strömblad also uses a Line 6 rack-mounted POD just like Gelotte.\n\nwith \"Ceremonial Oath\"\nwith \"In Flames\"\n\nWith \"HammerFall\" (songwriting credits)\nWith \"Sinergy\"\n\n\"Beware the Heavens\" (1999)\n\nWith \"All Ends\" (songwriting credits)\n\n\nWith \"The Resistance\"\n\nWith \"Cyhra\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1856699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856699", "title": "Chameleon Twist 2", "text": "Chameleon Twist 2\n\nThe story of \"Chameleon Twist 2\" takes place after the events in \"Chameleon Twist\". Davy and his friends (Jack, Fred, and Linda) are playing in the forest, still carrying the backpack from his last adventure, when suddenly the rabbit (closely resembling Lewis Carroll's White Rabbit) from before falls down and knocks one of the chameleons into the sky. The chameleon transforms into an enhanced-looking humanoid chameleon and goes on a search for six carrots in six different worlds.\n\nThe game changed certain aspects of the original, such as the character designs and the switched colors of the main characters. New moves were added, such as a parachute that could be deployed to make a slow descent and that could be used in conjunction with the tongue. Moreover, vertical pole swings were added, rather than having only horizontal.\n\nWhenever the player saw the rabbit, he or she could talk to it. The rabbit would ask them if they wanted to go to a practice course, and they could either accept or decline. If they declined, the rabbit would fly away and the player would not be able to visit that bonus course anytime again in the game.\n\nThe worlds are much longer than those of the first. However, there is no longer a multiplayer mode.\n\n\"Chameleon Twist 2\" has imaginative dreamworld environments. The textures of the worlds are less detailed, but more colorful. The Japanese version featured the same design for the playable characters as the first game, while in International versions outside of the Japanese release, the design has been edited to be more chameleon-like. In Japan, Davy is blue, while Jack is green. In the International versions, Davy is green while Jack is blue, in contrast to the original.\n\nThe game received \"unfavorable\" reviews according to the review aggregation website GameRankings. In Japan, \"Famitsu\" gave it a score of 24 out of 40. \"Nintendo Power\" gave it an average review nearly two months before its U.S. release date.\n"}
{"id": "1856701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856701", "title": "M-11 (Michigan highway)", "text": "M-11 (Michigan highway)\n\nM-11 is a state trunkline highway in the US state of Michigan in the Grand Rapids metropolitan area. The highway runs through the western and southern sides of the metro area, starting over the border in Ottawa County at an interchange with Interstate 96 (I-96). It runs through both rural woodlands and busy commercial areas before it terminates at another interchange with I-96 in Cascade Township. Locally known as Wilson Avenue and 28th Street, the trunkline is listed on the National Highway System, M-11 carries between 8,000 and 42,000 vehicles on average each day.\n\nWhen the original state trunklines were designated, an M-11 ran the length of the Lake Michigan shoreline from the Indiana state line to Mackinaw City. That highway was replaced in 1926 by two of the then-newly created US Highways. A second highway was given the M-11 designation at that time in the Saline area. This highway was removed from the highway system and the designation decommissioned in 1954. The current M-11 was designated in 1961 along a set of roads in the Grand Rapids area that includes portions of a former route of US Highway 16 (US 16) in Michigan.\n\nThe western terminus is at exit 24 on I-96, one mile (1.6 km) east of Marne. In Ottawa County, the road is called Ironwood Drive. Beginning at the Kent County border, the street is called Remembrance Road (in honor of those who died in battle). From its western terminus, the road angles southeast–northwest for about a mile and a half (2.4 km). Then M-11 turns south on Wilson Avenue to run north–south through Walker. Wilson Avenue intersects M-45 (Lake Michigan Drive) in the Standale Business District. South of Lake Michigan Drive, the trunkline continues on Wilson Avenue through the edge of a rural area. The highway runs through forest land near Millennium Park until it crosses the Grand River at I-196.\nPast I-196, M-11 curves to run east–west and becomes 28th Street. Wilson continues southwards as a local road and 28th Street is the route through Grandville and Wyoming. Chicago Drive runs under 28th Street in Grandville; there is a ramp from eastbound Chicago Drive to eastbound 28th Street, but all other connections are through the \"28th Street Cutoff\" to the east of the grade-separated junction. Continuing eastward through Wyoming, M-11 passes through that city's central business district. The highway intersects US Highway 131 and crosses into Grand Rapids at Division Avenue. Near Kalamazoo Avenue, 28th Street passes the Indian Hills Golf Course. From Breton Avenue eastward, 28th Street is dominated by retail establishments as it continues into Kentwood. M-11 meets an intersection with East Beltline Avenue near the Woodland Mall. East Beltline carries M-37 through the eastern side of the Grand Rapids metro area, and M-44 north of 28th Street. M-11 continues eastward to its terminus at exit 44 on I-96 while 28th Street continues farther east to Cascade Road.\n\nM-11 is maintained by the Michigan Department of Transportation (MDOT) like other state highways in Michigan. As a part of these maintenance responsibilities, the department tracks the volume of traffic that uses the roadways under its jurisdiction. These volumes are expressed using a metric called annual average daily traffic, which is a statistical calculation of the average daily number of vehicles on a segment of roadway. MDOT's surveys in 2010 showed that the highest traffic levels along M-11 were the 41,214 vehicles daily between Kalamazoo and Breton avenues in Grand Rapids; the lowest counts were the 8,153 vehicles per day in Ottawa County. All of M-11 has been listed on the National Highway System, a network of roads important to the country's economy, defense, and mobility.\n\nThe first M-11 originally ran along Lake Michigan between the Indiana state line near New Buffalo and Mackinaw City on July 1, 1919. On November 11, 1926, the New Buffalo–Benton Harbor segment was used for US 12 and the Watervliet–Mackinaw City section was used for US 31; between Benton Harbor and Watervliet, M-11 was used for a concurrent US 12/US 31. Streets are still designated as Old M-11 in places such as Chikaming Township.\n\nImmediately after the debut of the U.S. Highway System in 1926, M-11 was designated from M-50 at Napoleon to US 112 in Saline. The last section of this highway was fully paved between Bridgewater and Saline in late 1948 or early 1949. In the middle of 1954, M-92 was extended southward from Chelsea to Manchester. From there, that highway replaced M-11 west to Bridgewater before turning south to Clinton; at the same time, the remainder of M-11 was removed from the state highway system and the designation was decommissioned.\n\nThe modern M-11 was added to the state highway system as a component of M-114 . By 1942, the trunkline was completed and reassigned a Bypass US 16 designation, until the mainline US 16 was rerouted over the bypass in 1953. In the latter half of 1961, the M-11 designation was first assigned in the Grand Rapids area along the current routing when US 16 was moved to the newly opened I-96 freeway. The routing has remained unchanged since.\n\nThe current M-11 follows Remembrance Road, Wilson Avenue and 28th Street. The first two of these names were chosen to memorialize the roadway in honor of local people. Remembrance Road was dedicated in 1923 on the initiative of the local chapter of the Daughters of the American Revolution. They planted 231 elms in a double row on each side of the highway and erected a boulder bearing a bronze plaque dedicated to the veterans of Kent County. Wilson Avenue was named for Samuel H. Wilson, a local realtor. He had developed a series of local residential subdivisions in the area up until his 1931 death, In 1942, the county road commission named Wilson Avenue in his honor to comply with a state law requiring roads that benefitted from state funds to have proper names.\n\n"}
{"id": "1856707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856707", "title": "Gravity (Jesse Cook album)", "text": "Gravity (Jesse Cook album)\n\nGravity is the second studio album by the New Flamenco artist Jesse Cook.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1856710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856710", "title": "Selma University", "text": "Selma University\n\nSelma University is a private and historically black Baptist Bible college in Selma, Alabama. It is affiliated with the Alabama State Missionary Baptist Convention.\n\nThe institution was founded in 1878 as the Alabama Baptist Normal and Theological School to train African Americans as ministers and teachers. The school purchased the former Selma Fair Grounds later that same year, moving into the fair's old exposition buildings. Noted ministers such as William H. McAlpine, James A. Foster and R. Murrell were among the founders. At a meeting in Mobile, Alabama in 1874, the first trustees were elected: C. O. Booth, Alexander Butler, William H. McAlpine, Holland Thompson and H. J. Europe. The convention voted to locate the school in Selma in 1877. The school opened four years later in the Saint Phillips Street Baptist Church of Selma (which later became the First Baptist Church).\nIn 1881, the school was incorporated by an act of the legislature under the name of Alabama Baptist Normal and Theological School of Selma. In 1886, Charles L. Purce succeeded Edward M. Brawley as president at Selma. Purce was successful as president, and helped the university pay off a debt of $8,000. In 1894, he accepted the presidency of Simmons College of Kentucky, then known as the State University at Louisville\n\nOn May 14, 1908, the name was officially changed to Selma University.\n\nIn the late 1980s, Selma University developed from a four-year bachelor program in religion and two-year liberal arts program to a four-year institution. However, in the autumn of 2000, Selma University began its transformation from a Christian liberal arts college to a Bible college. In February 2001, Selma University received applicant status, and in February 2005 the school received candidate status with the Commission on Accreditation of the Association for Biblical Higher Education in Orlando, Florida. On February 20, 2009, Selma University received Initial Accreditation from the Commission on Accreditation of the Association for Biblical Higher Education in Canada and the United States.\n\nThe Women's Baptist State Convention was organized in 1886 and built a girls' dormitory in 1889. This dormitory was named Stone Hall in honor of Miss Susie Stone, Secretary of the Women's Convention.\n\nThe Dinkins Memorial Chapel was completed in 1904. It was named in honor of the Reverend C. S. Dinkins, one of the presidents of the school. This building was rebuilt in 1921 after having been destroyed by fire. It was renovated in 1980.\n\nFoster Hall was built in 1910, and named in honor of Susie C. Foster, president of the Women's Convention at the time of its construction.\n\nCleveland Hall was built in 1948 and was named in honor of M. C. Cleveland, Sr. The building contained materials that were taken from the Vickers Home and the Old Arcade Hotel in Selma.\n\nGibbs Dining Hall was constructed in 1953 and named after Henrietta M. Gibbs.\n\nThe Stone-Robinson Library was erected in 1960 and named for Susie Stone, Secretary of the Women's Convention and Reverend U. J. Robinson, President of the Alabama State Missionary Baptist Convention.\n\nThe Jemison-Owens Auditorium/Gymnasium was completed in 1966. This building was named in honor of the Reverend D. V. Jemison, who was president of the convention, and James H. Owens, president of the school at the time of its construction.\n\nThe Hood-Ware Dormitory for men and the Jackson-Wilson Dormitory for women were completed in 1970.\n\nThe A. W. Wilson Science and Computer Hall was completed in 1979.\n\nIn 1988, the science complex was expanded with the addition of an annex that houses an auditorium, several instructional laboratories, and two computer facilities, with offices for faculty. The computer-equipped writing laboratory in Dinkins Hall, the mathematics laboratory in the Science addition (completed in 1989), and the expanded library facility which houses a center for audiovisual instruction and computer-aided self-study (completed in 1990) are among the more significant improvements to the campus.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1856730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856730", "title": "Maryland Route 8", "text": "Maryland Route 8\n\nMaryland Route 8 (MD 8) is a state highway in the U.S. state of Maryland. Known for most of its length as Romancoke Road, the state highway runs from Romancoke Pier in Romancoke north to MD 18 in Stevensville. MD 8 is the main north–south highway of Kent Island in western Queen Anne's County. The state highway is also the first highway encountered on U.S. Route 50 (US 50) and US 301 east of the Chesapeake Bay Bridge. South of Matapeake, MD 8 is paralleled by the Kent Island South Trail.\n\nThe section of MD 8 from Stevensville to Matapeake was constructed in 1930 to serve the Annapolis–Matapeake ferry service of the Claiborne-Annapolis Ferry Company. The highway between Matapeake and Romancoke was constructed in 1938 to serve that company's Romancoke–Claiborne ferry. The Stevensville–Matapeake road was originally designated MD 404 and was briefly part of US 50 in the early 1950s. The Matapeake–Romancoke highway was briefly MD 17 before becoming MD 33. After the Chesapeake Bay Bridge opened in 1952, the MD 33 designation was extended north to Stevensville. MD 8 replaced MD 33 on Kent Island in 1960.\n\nMD 8 begins at the Romancoke Pier in the unincorporated community of Romancoke. The state highway heads west as two-lane Romancoke Road. MD 8 curves to the north, intersecting Kent Point Road on a tangent. The state highway passes a mix of farmland, forest, and residential subdivisions on its way north. In the hamlet of Normans, the old alignment of MD 8, MD 802 (Batts Neck Road), splits off and later rejoins the present alignment. MD 8 continues north through Matapeake, where the highway passes Matapeake State Park, the former site of the cross-bay ferry. Just north of Bay Bridge Airport, the state highway expands to a four-lane divided highway and intersects MD 835A (Thompson Creek Service Road), which provides access to a park and ride lot serving MTA Maryland commuter buses that is located to the east of the road. Immediately to the north, MD 8 meets US 50 and US 301 (Blue Star Memorial Highway) at a diamond interchange; this interchange, Exit 37, is the first exit east of the Chesapeake Bay Bridge. The highway's name changes to Business Parkway at the interchange, shortly before MD 8 reaches its northern terminus at MD 18. MD 18 heads north as Business Parkway toward Love Point and east as Main Street toward the Stevensville Historic District and Chester.\n\nThe first section of present MD 8, from Stevensville to the Matapeake ferry landing, was paved in 1930 to serve the newly inaugurated Annapolis–Matapeake ferry across the Chesapeake Bay in 1930. The highway was designated as a westward extension of MD 404 in 1933. The highway from Matapeake to Romancoke was built in 1938 to serve the newly inaugurated Romancoke–Claiborne ferry across Eastern Bay. In 1939, the Romancoke–Matapeake highway was designated as a western extension of MD 17, which ran from Claiborne to Easton. The highway became part of MD 33 in 1940 when old MD 33—now modern MD 17 in Frederick County—and old MD 17 swapped numbers.\n\nIn 1949, US 50 was extended east of Annapolis and replaced MD 404 west of Wye Mills. As a result, the highway between Matapeake and Stevensville became US 50. When the Chesapeake Bay Bridge was completed in 1952, US 50 followed a new divided highway east toward Queenstown. MD 33 was extended north from Matapeake to MD 18 in Stevensville. The Romancoke–Claiborne ferry was discontinued by 1954, but MD 33 remained on Kent Island until it was replaced with the MD 8 designation in 1960. MD 8's interchange with US 50 and US 301 was completed by 1987. A divided highway, Business Parkway, was completed at the same time from south of the interchange to Love Point Road where MD 18 presently intersects MD 835C north of the Stevensville Historic District. MD 8's northern terminus moved south to its present location when MD 18 was extended west to Business Parkway in 1989.\n\nMD 8A is the designation for the section of Batts Neck Road between MD 8 and MD 802 south of Matapeake. Batts Neck Road continues east from MD 802 as a county highway.\n\n"}
{"id": "1856731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856731", "title": "Mojácar", "text": "Mojácar\n\nMojácar () is a municipality situated in the south east of the Province of Almería (Andalucia) in southern Spain, bordering the Mediterranean Sea. It is 90 km from the capital of the province, Almería. It is an elevated mountain village displaying the traditional white colour from its earlier days. There is also a tourist resort to the south of the town, on the coast, called Mojacar Playa.\n\nMojácar has been inhabited by many different groups since antiquity. Populated since the Bronze Age around 2000 BC, traders such as the Phoenicians and Carthaginians arrived to serve the growing communities. Under Greek dominion, the settlement was called Murgis-Akra, whence came the Latinized Moxacar, the arab Muxacra and finally the current name of Mojácar.\n\nMurgis-Akra and its lands became incorporated into the Nasrid sultanate, and the town found itself on the frontier with the Christian forces to the east. Watchtowers and fortresses were built, or reinforced, during the 14th century. On June 10, 1488, the town was annexed to the Kingdom of Castile.\n\nMojácar, once again, began to expand until the early 18th century, when the census of the time recorded 10,000 people. Around the middle of the 19th century, Mojácar began another period of decline.\n\nSeveral severe droughts brought about this drop in the town's fortunes, with a consequent emigration to other parts of Spain, Europe or Hispanic America. The depopulation of the town was halted in the 1960s when tourism began to reverse the trend.\n\nMojácar has more than 3000 hours of sun per year. Rainfall is seldom and weak, with an average rainfall of 200mm per year. The average yearly temperature is around 20 °C. Winter is normally mild. Mojácar is classified as being in the 11 climate zone (the highest climate zone) that means the temperature in Mojácar is never lower than 4 °C.\n\nThe average temperature in winter varies between 10 °C and 18 °C.\n\nThe average temperature in summer varies between 26 °C and 32 °C.\n\nThanks to Mojácar's proximity to the sea, the maximum temperature in summer is considered mild. However, in the inland zones of Almeria during summer, day time temperatures can reach 40 °C; even the low evening temperature is high enough to warrant the use of airconditioning, especially during June, July and August.\n\nMojácar has the highest GDP per capita in the whole of Andalusia.\n\nThe GDP per capita on Mojácar is slightly higher than €90,000 per year\n\nThe average GDP per capita in Andalusia is €20,453 per year, which is significantly lower than that of Spain as a whole.\n\nThe Indalo, or Mojácar man, is a magical totem said to bring protection and good luck. From times past was painted onto the fronts of houses once the whitewash was dry with the belief that it kept away the evil eye and protected those within from storms. The figure might be interpreted as a man holding a rainbow between his outstretched arms.\nThe original totem is thought to be around 4,500 years old, and the earliest known one appears among other prehistoric paintings in a cave in Vélez-Blanco. The name, Indalo was coined by a group of artists and intellectuals who settled in Mojácar in the early 1960s, attracted by the atmosphere of the town, and who commercialised the totem which today signifies the whole province of Almería. Due to tourism, the Indalo Man has spread in popularity and has been seen on houses in various parts of Europe such as Brittany in France and Cornwall in England.\n\n\nIn media, in the 1982 film Conan the Barbarian, Arnold Schwarzenegger appeared ritually tattooed with several Indalos representations. In fact, the film was recorded in Almeria province.\n\nMojácar is home to the Fundación Valparaíso, an international artists' colony - closed since May 1, 2013.\n\nThe traditional dishes still found in Mojácar denote the rural nature. Amongst its plain cuisine, the most well known dishes are: Gurullos, Pelotas, Gachas, Migas, Ajo Colorao, and Pescado frito.\n\nThe most important festivals (Spanish: \"fiestas\") in Mojácar are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1856733", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856733", "title": "Dana Reeve", "text": "Dana Reeve\n\nDana Charles Reeve (née Morosini; March 17, 1961 – March 6, 2006) was an American actress, singer, and activist for disability causes. She was the wife of actor Christopher Reeve.\n\nReeve was born in Teaneck, New Jersey, to Charles Morosini (died on April 24, 2018), a cardiologist, and Helen Simpson Morosini, who died in February 2005.\n\nShe grew up in the town of Greenburgh, New York, where she graduated from Edgemont High School in 1979.\n\nShe graduated \"summa cum laude\" and Phi Beta Kappa in English Literature from Middlebury College in Vermont in 1984. In 2004 she and husband, Christopher Reeve, received honorary Doctorates of Humane Letters from Middlebury. \n\nShe spent the junior year of her studies at the Royal Academy of Dramatic Art in London. In 1984, she pursued additional graduate studies in acting at the California Institute of the Arts in Valencia, California. \n\nShe married actor Christopher Reeve in Williamstown, Massachusetts, on April 11, 1992, and they had a son, William Elliot \"Will\" Reeve, born on June 7, 1992. \n\nReeve loved to ride horses. In 2005, she told Larry King: \"I rode my whole life, and after Chris had his accident, I stopped riding, primarily because he loved it so much, and I think it really would have been painful for him if I was going off riding and he wasn't able to. And it didn't mean that much to me to drop.\"\n\nHer many singing and acting credits included appearances on television, where she had guest roles on Dick Wolf's \"Law & Order\", \"\", soap operas \"All My Children\" as Eva Stroupe and \"Loving\", among others. She performed at theatres on Broadway, off-Broadway, and at numerous regional theatres. Reeve also did a long-running commercial for Tide laundry detergent that aired during the 1990s. \n\nIn 2000, she co-hosted a live daily talk show for women on the Lifetime Network with Deborah Roberts called \"Lifetime Live\" and also wrote a brief column for the defunct AccessLife.com These articles can be found at the Christopher Reeve Homepage. She sang the title song on the soundtrack of the HBO drama \"In the Gloaming\", directed by her husband. Reeve also had another cameo in her husband's movie \"The Brooke Ellison Story\" as a teacher. \n\nShe authored the book \"Care Packages: Letters to Christopher Reeve from Strangers and Other Friends\". In 2004, she was performing in the Broadway-bound play \"Brooklyn Boy\" at South Coast Repertory in Costa Mesa, California when she had to rush home to reach her husband's bedside after he went into cardiac arrest and a coma. In April 2005, it was also announced that she signed a seven-figure book deal with Penguin Books to write about her relationship with her famous husband. It is not known how far Reeve got with writing the book before she died; the book was never published.\n\nThe children's book \"Dewey Doo-it Helps Owlie Fly Again: A Musical Storybook Inspired by Christopher Reeve\" was published in 2005 and included an audio to accompany the book with Mandy Patinkin reading the story as well as Reeve and Bernadette Peters singing.\n\nOn February 2, 2005, eight days before the death of her mother Helen, Reeve attended President George W. Bush's State of the Union address seated in the Capitol gallery in Washington, D.C. as the guest of Congressman Jim Langevin (D-RI).\n\nSeveral months before her death, Reeve taped the PBS documentary \"The New Medicine\" focusing on the growing trend in medical care combining holistic and traditional treatment. The program premiered after her death, on March 29, 2006. She also worked on the computer-animated movie \"Everyone's Hero\", a project with the working title \"Yankee Irving\" when her husband was the director at the time of his death. The film was released on September 15, 2006, and is dedicated to both her and Christopher Reeve.\n\nOn August 9, 2005, Reeve announced that, although she had never smoked cigarettes, she had been diagnosed with lung cancer. Reeve chose to disclose her illness after the \"National Enquirer\" announced that it planned to make the information public.\n\nIn 2005, Reeve received the \"Mother of the Year Award\" from the American Cancer Society for her dedication and determination in raising her son after the loss of her husband. In her final public appearances, Reeve stated that the tumor had responded to therapy and was shrinking. She appeared at Madison Square Garden on January 12, 2006, and sang the Carole King song \"Now and Forever\" in honor of New York Rangers hockey player Mark Messier, whose number was retired that evening. On the night that she died, instead of having a live performer sing the national anthem at Madison Square Garden prior to the Rangers' game, a recording of Reeve singing was played.\n\nReeve died on March 6, 2006, at the age of 44 at Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center in New York City.\n\nEpisode 16 of the fifth season of \"Smallville\" titled \"Hypnotic\" is dedicated to her and the film \"Superman Returns\" is dedicated to both her and Christopher. The animated film \"Everyone's Hero\" (2006) is also dedicated in memory of Christopher and Dana Reeve. Her husband predeceased her on October 10, 2004.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1856743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856743", "title": "Pietro Ubaldi", "text": "Pietro Ubaldi\n\nPietro Ubaldi (August 18, 1886 in Foligno, Italy – February 29, 1972 in São Vicente, Brazil) was an Italian author, teacher and philosopher. He was nominated for the Nobel Prize in Literature five times.\n\nUbaldi was graduated in Law and Music, at Rome. Fluent in English, French, German, Spanish and Portuguese, in addition to his native Italian, he also knew Latin and Greek language. A student of various philosophical and religious traditions, he distinguished himself as a Christian thinker. He had two children, Agnese and Franco, who died during the second world war. His Christian belief was not only an intellectual question, but a global dimension, something deeply connected with all his being. A descendant of one of the most renowned and ancient families of Umbria (the Italian region where Saint Francis of Assisi was born), he renounced richness to be faithful to the Gospel. So he was obliged to find a job to live. First he went to Sicily to teach English in a secondary school, then, always as a teacher, he went to Gubbio (Umbria), where he lived twenty years.\n\nHe authored 24 books: 12 in Italy and 12 in Brazil. Remarkable for anticipating by a few decades philosophical and scientific concepts later formalized by traditional sciences, including findings by Albert Einstein, \"The Great Synthesis\", describing, among other themes, the unitary aspect of the universe and its consequences to spiritual evolution, is considered one of his principal works. He received the first inspiration for this book at the age of 27 years at Falconara (Marche). One day, on the seashore, he got the enlightenment that made him perceive the essence of the universe. He felt that matter, energy and spirit are different aspects of the same Substance and that their difference is a \"kinetic difference\", as he states, that is of movement: rotatory as regards matter, wave-like as regards energy, whirling as regards psyche.\n\nSince most of Pietro Ubaldi's books are not available in English, titles are only a translation of their Italian versions and might vary once formally published.\n\n1 – MESSAGES<br>\n2 – \"The Great Synthesis\" (Synthesis and Solution to the Problems of Science and Spirit)<br>\n3 – \"The Nours (Techniques for Reception of Thought Currents)\"<br>\n4 – \"Mystic Ascension\"<br>\n5 – \"History of a Man\"<br>\n6 – \"Fragments of Thought and Passion\"<br>\n7 – \"The New Civilization of the Third Millenium\"<br>\n8 – \"Problems of the Future\"<br>\n9 – \"Human Ascension\"<br>\n10 – \"God and Universe\"<br>\n11 – \"Prophecies (The Future of the World)\"<br>\n12 – \"Comments\"<br>\n13 – \"Current Problems\"<br>\n14 – \"The System (Genesis and Structure of the Universe)\"<br>\n15 – \"The Great Battle\"<br>\n16 – \"Evolution and Gospel\"<br>\n17 – \"The God's Law\"<br>\n18 – \"The Functional Technique of God's Law\"<br>\n19 – \"Fall and Salvation\"<br>\n20 – \"Principles of a New Ethics\"<br>\n21 – \"The Downfall of the Ideals\"<br>\n22 – \"A Destiny Following Christ\"<br>\n23 – \"How to Orient One's Own Life\"<br>\n24 – \"Christ\"\n\nhttp://www.pietroubaldi.com/\n"}
{"id": "1856747", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856747", "title": "Zgharta", "text": "Zgharta\n\nZgharta (, ), also spelled Zghorta, is a city in North Lebanon, with an estimated population of around 50,000. It is the second biggest city in Northern Lebanon after Tripoli.\n\nZgharta is about 150 metres above sea level and lies between the rivers of Jouit and Rashein. It is 23 kilometres from Ehden, 11 kilometres from the coastal city of Tripoli, 88,7 kilometres from the capital of Lebanon, Beirut, and 82 kilometres from the nearest Syrian city, Tartous. Its history and people are closely associated with the village of Ehden. Most of the citizens of Zgharta have summer houses in Ehden.\n\nIt is the seat and the capital of the Zgharta District (Qadaa' Zgharta). Zgharta is closely related to the mountain town of Ehden, essentially sharing the same population. Each summer, most of the people in Zgharta move to spend their summer in Ehden; this is reversed in winter when Ehden is practically deserted. Zghartawis speak the Lebanese dialect with a distinctive accent, the original Syriac accent applied on Arabic language. Syriac was taught in local schools till the mid 1900s.\n\nZgharta had two Presidents of Lebanon: Suleiman Frangieh and René Moawad, and many prominent politicians: Youssef Salim Karam, Hamid Frangieh, Semaan El Douaihy, Suleiman Frangieh, Jr, Nayla Moawad, Estephan El Douaihy (actual MP), Salim Bey Karam, Tony Frangieh (actual MP), Jawad Boulos, Michel Moawad (actual MP) and Youssef Bahha El Douaihy. Ehden also produced at least four patriarchs of the Maronite Church – Gregorios Of Ehden, David Of Ehden, Jeremiah of Amshit (1199-1230), Youhanna Makhlouf (1609-1633), George Omaira (1634-1644), Estephan El Douaihy (1670-1704) – and an Ottoman era nationalist leader Youssef Bey Karam who led a rebellion against Turkish rule. Political power in Zgharta district is dominated by a few rival families from the town: the Karam, Frangieh, Douaihy, Moawad and Makary.\n\nTraditionally, agriculture was a large portion of the local economy, with olives grown for olive-oil around Zgharta and apple orchards around Ehden. Recently, the service (especially tourism and leisure) and manufacturing sectors have seen significant growth.\n\nVarious explanations have been given as to the meaning of Zgharta. The majority are of the opinion that it relates to meanings relating to fortresses, citadels, barricades and the like. One writer has suggested that it derived from the Aramaic word \"zaghar\" meaning the fortress or alternatively from the Syriac word \"zeghartay\" meaning the barricades. They also have been saying that Zgharta was named by Youssef Bey Karam, who chose that name with the meaning of a little version of Ehden (the expression \"zaghar Ehden\" explains it).\n\nThe Plain of Zgharta around Zgharta was likely inhabited from at least the beginning of the Neolithic Revolution by the Qaraoun culture as evidenced by some large, heavy Neolithic flints and double-headed axes found in the area that are documented by R. Wetzel and J. Haller in 1945.\n\nThere is some evidence that the area of Zgharta was later inhabited in 200 BC and that in the 2nd and 3rd centuries there were already fortifications. Its present-day existence and its close association with the village of Ehden began in the 16th century.\n\nThe story of that beginning is recorded in a manuscript in the Syriac language, which belonged to Romanos Afandi Yammine, son of Father George Yammine, and is now held by his grandson Youssef Boutros Romanos Yammine. It describes how people of Ehden had acquired \"the farmland of Zgharta\":\n\nOn the eve of the 24th of January 1515, Al-Ghazali, the governor of Damascus, along with Sannan Pasha, the minister of Sultan Salim, had reached Ehden travelling along the route of Damascus-Bekaa Valley-Dahr al-Kadib-the cedars. They were transporting funds to Sultan Salim who was in Egypt. They were welcomed as guests by Sheikh Iskandar, whilst other members of their travelling entourage were guests of the people of Ehden. Heavy snowfall and extremely freezing conditions that lasted two full days prompted them to stay five days in Ehden where Sheikh Iskandar and Bishop Keryakos Douaihy, the local bishop, provided for their guests great hospitality, generosity and kindness. Responding to a request by their guests, the people of Ehden endeavoured to clear the heavy snow off the road as far as Hayrouna Valley overlooking the coast, accompanying their guests to safety where they made their farewells to them with fitting accolades.\n\nIn April 1516, Bishop El Douaihy and Sheikh Iskandar received a letter from Al-Ghazali, saying on being told by his minister, Sannan Pasha of their and peoples hospitality and assistance, Sultan Salim asked that he rewarded them which he promised the Sultan he would. On his return to Damascus, Al-Ghazali invited the people of Ehden to meet him in Tripoli. At the request of Sheikh Iskander he agreed to provide the people with a place to live away from the harsh winter conditions, which they faced in Ehden. Al-Ghazali readily agreed to this request. Accompanied by his officials, Sheikh Iskandar went with Bishop El Douaihy to choose a suitable place in the Al-Zawiyi region. They chose a derelict farm, containing a few demolished houses and a tower in the middle, situated between the rivers Joueit and Rashein. Al-Ghazali, on the return of his officials with the measurements of the site, promised to obtain a \"Shahani firman\" (decree) from Sultan Salim whereby ownership of the land would pass to the people of Ehden.\n\nSome eight months later, in 1517, the \"Shahani firman\" was granted, but it was addressed to Sheikh Iskandar. Having collected the firman in Damascus and returning to Ehden the people there were aggrieved that the firman was addressed solely to Sheikh Iskandar, fearing that he and his relations could claim sole ownership. Bishop El Douaihy, representing the people, put this to Sheikh Iskandar and as a result he declared at the Mar Mama church that the given land known as \"Zgharta would be distributed equally between the people of Ehden\".\n\nIn 1602, Father Ghodar, a Jesuit priest to Zgharta recorded:\n\"Zgharta represents a horrific nightmare for its enemy. Its youth is dressed in traditional clothing; white shirts decorated with yellow stitched embroidery, strongly tied \"sherwal\" pants along with long boots and topped by headband reflecting enormous heroism. Zgharta is a small village surrounded by an enclosure, and has a fortress beside the church of Virgin Mary. Zgharta used to be a drawn line between danger and worship, situated between Tripoli and the mountain. It would receive initial attacking strikes, then reply by returning those strikes, hitting the hearts of their enemy. Its people have therefore been renowned and recognised as excellent fighters\"\n\nAnother later visitor in 1831 records that \"From Tripoli I left for Zgharta, which is two hours away. Its land is full of olive, mulberry, vines, apricot and lemon trees\"\n\nThe town of Zgharta was divided into five sectors in 1932: Saydeh Sharki (the area to the east side of Notre-Dame of Zgharta church), Saydeh Gherbi (west of the Church), Slayeb Shemali (northern side of the crossroads), Slayeb Janoubi (southern side of the crossroads) and Maaser. To be a citizen of Zgharta, one is to be registered in one of these five sectors.\n\nThe climate is hot-summer Mediterranean (\"Csa\" in the Köppen climate classification), with very wet winters and very dry summers. About of precipitation falls annually.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1856748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856748", "title": "A Star Is Born Again", "text": "A Star Is Born Again\n\n\"A Star Is Born Again\" is the 13th episode from \"The Simpsons\"<nowiki>'</nowiki> fourteenth season. It first aired on the Fox network in the United States on March 2, 2003. The episode owes much of its plot to \"Notting Hill\" (1999). While that film is about an actress finding happiness with the owner of an independent bookstore, the episode features Hollywood movie star Sara Sloane (Marisa Tomei) falling for Ned Flanders after visiting the Leftorium. The episode title doubles as a reference to the film \"A Star Is Born\" and being born again, meaning a person who has converted to a personal faith in Jesus Christ for salvation.\n\nThis is the only \"Simpsons\" episode in which the same person has been accredited with two different names, where James L. Brooks is credited as the Executive Producer and Executive Creative Consultant, and again as Jim Brooks as a Special Guest Voice.\n\nDuring the annual Jellyfish Festival, which welcomes back the Stinging Red Jellyfish to the shores of Springfield, Ned Flanders becomes depressed because he is alone. The other adults have partners with whom to spend a romantic evening at the Jellyfish Cotillion, and this is Ned's first festival without his wife Maude.\n\nNed returns to the Leftorium to work on his taxes and take his mind off things. There he meets a woman named Sara Sloane, who is after a pair of left-handed eyelash curlers. After chatting with Ned she asks him out on a date. After she leaves Ned notices a movie poster with Sara's face on it, which she is a movie star.\n\nSara and Ned hit it off, with Sara loving Ned's simple, quaint lifestyle and honesty. They go on several dates and encounter some problems, especially from tabloid reporters following them. Also, Sara is more uninhibited than Ned, causing some tension.\n\nWhen her movie wraps, Sara asks Ned to return to Hollywood with her. Ned has a horrible dream about the bad things of Hollywood in a sequence that includes a cameo by series producer James L. Brooks, and also the \"Hollywood\" sign reading \"Hollyweird\", and refuses. Sara therefore tries staying in Springfield, to be with Ned. She slowly starts settling in with the locals, joining Marge's book club hosted by author Helen Fielding and going shopping with Ned.\n\nAt a concert, to which Sara wears a low-cut dress, Sara tells Ned she wants to have sex with him. Ned eventually relents, but insists on marriage if they are to continue a sexual relationship. Sara is unwilling to get married, and they break up and she returns to Hollywood. She gets a quickie marriage and divorce to Bob Balaban. Ned finds that he is now more attractive to women because of his famous relationship.\n\n\nIn a 2008 article, \"Entertainment Weekly\" named Marisa Tomei's role as Sara Sloane as one of the sixteen best guest appearances on \"The Simpsons\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1856758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856758", "title": "Little Cranberry Lake, Washington", "text": "Little Cranberry Lake, Washington\n\nLittle Cranberry Lake is located within Anacortes Community Forest Lands on Fidalgo Island in the northwestern corner of the U.S. state of Washington. The lake is deepened by a dam on the northern end which was constructed in the 1930s. The previous dam had broken in 1921 releasing a large amount of water which crashed down the hills to the beach.\n\nThe lake basin is part of a 10-mile long, north-south wilderness corridor that roughly follows an ancient moraine, which snakes its way down the middle of the island. This moraine is a major source of gravel for the region which adjoins Anacortes, Washington. The trails in this corridor are maintained but are of variable quality. Almost all are ideal for mountain biking, in particular.\n\nLittle Cranberry Lake is a popular swimming location, especially for visitors to the annual summer music celebration, What the Heck Fest.\n\nWildlife is plentiful and diverse. Coyotes, deer, beaver, grouse, pelicans, hawks, bald eagles, Canada geese, mallards, and many different varieties of reptiles and insects are plentiful in the Little Cranberry basin. Hunting is not allowed. To the south of the lake are swamplands whose size and depth has been increasing since approximately 1985, when the beavers moved in.\n\nSeveral varieties of orchids exist in this area that could be unique. The area around the lake was clearcut between 1890 and 1920 but some of the basin's less accessible trees, such as those on the southern end of the lake, are old growth. Until the 1950s locals say, morel mushrooms were extremely plentiful. As of 2005, morels are practically impossible to find.\n"}
{"id": "1856761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856761", "title": "The Power of the Daleks", "text": "The Power of the Daleks\n\nThe Power of the Daleks is the completely missing third serial of the fourth season in the British science fiction television series \"Doctor Who\", which was first broadcast in six weekly parts from 5 November to 10 December 1966. It is the first full story to feature Patrick Troughton as the Second Doctor. \n\nIt was the sixth incomplete \"Doctor Who\" serial to be released with full-length animated reconstructions of its six missing episodes. All six episodes were released on the BBC Store from 5 November–10 December 2016 in weekly order, 50 years to the serials' original broadcast dates.\n\nBen and Polly enter the TARDIS as the First Doctor collapses and changes into a younger, confused man who seems to ignore or deliberately misunderstand direct questions, and refers to his previous self as another person. Ben suspects he is an imposter, but Polly believes he is still the Doctor they know. They land on the planet Vulcan, where the Doctor witnesses the murder of an examiner from Earth, sent to inspect the planet's colony (why the examiner was summoned is a mystery). The Doctor, using the dead man's badge, pretends to be the examiner. A security team, led by Bragen, escorts the Doctor, Ben and Polly to the colony, where they meet the governor, Hensell, and his deputy Quinn. There are indications of a rebel faction that Hensell does not take seriously. \n\nThe Doctor and his companions learn of a two-century-old capsule discovered by the colony's scientist, Lesterson. The Doctor sneaks into the laboratory, with Ben and Polly following, where they discover two Daleks inside the capsule, with a third missing. The group is discovered by Lesterson; the Doctor asks him where the third Dalek is, and the scientist reports that he hid what he assumed was a machine, with the intention to reactivate it. Later, Lesterson and his assistants manage to revive the Dalek and Lesterson removes its gun stick after one of the assistants, Resno, is killed.\n\nQuinn, revealed as the one who summoned the examiner, is accused by Bragen of sabotage and is arrested, with his position then assigned to Bragen. The Doctor, Ben and Polly are present during these events, during which Lesterson arrives with the reactivated Dalek, which feigns loyalty. The Doctor remains suspicious and verbally hostile to the Dalek, whose behavior suggests to Ben and Polly that it recognizes the Time Lord, confirming at last that he really is the Doctor. Lesterson reactivates the other two Daleks and removes their guns. The three Daleks are revealed to be secretly planning to take over the colony.\n\nThe Doctor's warning that the Daleks are secretly reproducing is ignored, and he and Ben are arrested by Bragen, who knows the Doctor is not the examiner. Bragen is revealed to be the real examiner's killer. Polly is kidnapped by the rebels. Bragen, secretly the leader of the rebels, executes his Coup d'état. He has a rearmed Dalek kill Hensell, and then decides to kill off the rebels.\n\nMeanwhile, Lesterson loses his sanity upon discovering that the Daleks are being mass produced inside the capsule. The Doctor, Quinn, and then Ben and Polly escape imprisonment and help fight what appears to be a losing battle. During the battle, Lesterson is killed by the Daleks. The Doctor finally destroys the Daleks by turning their own power source against them. Bragen is shot by one of the surviving rebels as he attempts to kill Quinn, who becomes the new governor. As the Doctor returns to the TARDIS with his companions, a damaged Dalek stands motionless, before its eyestalk moves as the TARDIS dematerializes.\n\n Episode is missing\n\nWorking titles for this story included \"The Destiny of Doctor Who\" and \"Servants of Masters\". Anneke Wills was on holiday and therefore absent from episode four. Similarly, Michael Craze was absent for episode five.\n\nThe Doctor's regeneration was meant to be a \"horrifying\" metaphysical change. The producers compared it to the hallucinogenic drug LSD, which had the side-effect of \"hell and dank horror\".\n\nEpisode 6 was recorded using the 625-line system before the official switchover, although it was telerecorded onto 35mm film, instead of videotape.\n\nBernard Archard returned in \"Pyramids of Mars\" (1975). Peter Bathurst returned in \"The Claws of Axos\" (1971). Robert James returned in \"The Masque of Mandragora\" (1976). Edward Kelsey had previously appeared in \"The Romans\" (1965) and would return in \"The Creature from the Pit\" (1979).\n\nThe master tapes of all six episodes were erased in the late 1960s, while the BBC Enterprise copies on 16mm for foreign sales were destroyed in 1974. The additional 35mm film negative of episode 6 was junked some time prior to 1970. Some clips survive from various other programmes, mainly focusing upon the Daleks. In addition some footage filmed off-air by an Australian fan onto 8mm cine film exists, showing brief moments of the new Doctor's first moves in the TARDIS.\n\nThe Australian copies of \"Power\" were returned and junked in June 1975. Only two other countries purchased the story due to the restriction on Dalek sales by Terry Nation: the New Zealand Broadcasting Corporation in 1968, which then sent its copy to RTS in Singapore in 1972. RTS's successor Mediacorp say they do not possess any copies, and what happened to this set is currently unknown.\n\nIn August 2016, two minutes of animated footage from the serial appeared on YouTube. The professional nature of the animation, combined with the fact that the BBC had it removed within 48 hours, led to speculation that it had been leaked footage from a planned official release. The \"Daily Mirror\" then ran a story stating that a full animated reconstruction of the serial had been commissioned by the BBC. In September the BBC confirmed that it was producing a full animated version of \"The Power of the Daleks\" for release in November to coincide with the 50th anniversary of the serial's original broadcast. Two additional teasers were released the following month. \nThe animation was directed by Charles Norton, with lead character art by Martin Geraghty, character shading by Adrian Salmon, props by Mike Collins, and background art by Daryl Joyce. Late into production, BBC America began work on a colourised version of the black and white animation.\n\nThe animation was released daily on the BBC Store in black and white between 5 and 10 November 2016, followed by a colour release of the complete serial on 31 December 2016. In North America, the animation was screened theatrically by Fathom Events on 14 November 2016 and aired on BBC America from 19 November 2016. For the 2020 re-release, the animation was re-composited and some sections were re-animated.\n\nIn 1994, \"Science Fiction Chronicle\"s Don D'Ammassa reviewed the novelisation as \"competently done and entertaining.\"\n\nIn a poll undertaken by \"Doctor Who Magazine\" at the time of the show's 50th anniversary the story was rated the 19th best story of all time.\n\nA novelisation of this serial, written by John Peel, was published by Virgin Books in July 1993. Although still published under the Target Books banner, this was the first novelisation to be published under the new format introduced by Virgin for the Virgin New Adventures/Virgin Missing Adventures series. The most notable difference is the increased page count.\n\nThe script of this serial, edited by John McElroy, was published by Titan Books in March 1993.\n\nThe audio soundtrack survives. The BBC has given it three commercial releases: first, on cassette release with narration by Tom Baker; second, on CD with narration by Anneke Wills; third, on MP3-CD for the 'Doctor Who: Reconstructed' range, again narrated by Anneke Wills. This release also includes a bonus slideshow for PC/Apple Mac users, merging the soundtrack with tele-snaps. The Anneke Wills-narrated soundtrack was also released in a collector's tin called \"Doctor Who: Daleks\", along with the soundtrack to \"The Evil of the Daleks\" and a bonus disc featuring \"My Life as a Dalek\", a story presented by Mark Gatiss discussing the history of the Daleks.\n\nIn 2004, all known surviving clips were released on the \"Lost in Time\" DVD. Following the DVD's release, two further short clips—along with a higher-quality version of one of the extant scenes—were discovered in a 1966 episode of the BBC science series \"Tomorrow's World\". The clips only came to light on 11 September 2005, when the relevant section was broadcast as part of an edition of the clip-based nostalgia show \"Sunday Past Times\" on BBC Two. These clips were subsequently included in the documentaries \"The Dalek Tapes\", on the \"Genesis of the Daleks\" DVD release, and \"Now Get out of That\", on the \"Terror of the Vervoids\" disc in \"The Trial of a Time Lord\" box set.\n\nIn the UK, the black and white animation was released on DVD on 21 November 2016, and a Blu-ray/DVD bundle containing the black and white and colour versions in limited steelbook packaging was released in February 2017. A North American DVD containing the black and white and colour versions was released on 31 January 2017. These releases include surviving clips from the original episodes, the CD-ROM's telesnap reconstruction, a 20 minute documentary covering the original production (\"Servants and Masters\") and an audio commentary; additionally, a 5.1 surround mix of the serial was produced alongside a remaster of the original mono recordings.\n\nAn updated version of the animation is scheduled for release on Blu-ray and DVD on 6 July 2020; this release also adds newly-discovered footage from the original episodes, the narrated cassette version of the serial, two new documentaries and additional archive content, including an episode of Whicker's World (\"I Don’t Like My Monsters to Have Oedipus Complexes\") and surviving footage of Robin Hood starring Troughton.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1856763", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856763", "title": "1991 Copa América", "text": "1991 Copa América\n\nThe 1991 Copa América football tournament was hosted by Chile, from July 6 to 21. It was organized by CONMEBOL and all ten member nations participated.\n\nThis was the last time that the tournament consisted of only CONMEBOL member nations. In subsequent tournaments, at least two nations from outside CONMEBOL have been invited to bring the total number of participants to twelve.\n\nArgentina won the Copa América for the 13th time, their first since 1959.\n\nFor a complete list of all participating squads: \"1991 Copa América squads\"\n\nThe tournament was set up in two groups of five teams each. Each team played one match against each of the other teams within the same group. The top two teams in each group advanced to the final stage.\n\nTwo points were awarded for a win, one point for a draw, and no points for a loss.\n\n\nWith six goals, Gabriel Batistuta was the top scorer in the tournament. In total, 73 goals were scored by 42 different players, with two of them credited as own goals.\n\n6 goals\n\n5 goals\n\n3 goals\n\n2 goals\n1 goal\n\nOwn goals\n"}
{"id": "1856769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856769", "title": "Exhumed (band)", "text": "Exhumed (band)\n\nExhumed is an American deathgrind band from San Jose, California that is currently signed to Relapse Records and centered around guitarist/vocalist Matt Harvey. The band has released eight albums and eight split 7\" singles. They were formed in 1990, went on hiatus in 2005, and reformed in 2010.\n\nExhumed formed in 1990, when founding member Matt Harvey was 15 years old. Exhumed spent much of the ensuing decade releasing numerous demos, split CDs, and EPs. Harvey explained that he was influenced by Carcass, Impetigo, Repulsion and Terrorizer as well as early albums by Entombed.\n\nThe band recorded their debut album \"Gore Metal\" in 1998. The album blended death metal and grindcore and influenced later bands who played the same type of music. Harvey said that \"Gore Metal\" was the album where Exhumed developed its vision, although he conceded that \"we were still very loose and sloppy and didn't really have a handle on recording at all. Listening back to that record, I like most of the songs, but the production is awful sounding.\" Harvey said the band recorded several songs for the album that were lost when producer James Murphy, then suffering from brain cancer and acting \"erratically\", was evicted from his studio in Oakland.\n\nThis led to the band touring the United States and making several festival appearances. The band's line-up continued to change during and after the release of their second album, \"Slaughtercult\", in August 2000. Harvey said that \"Slaughtercult\" was \"the album where we came closest to achieving our goal – just a brutal, simple, direct group of songs that were very up-front and live sounding.\" He further noted the band's pride over the lack of double bass on the album, in contrast to contemporary death metal trends. In support of \"Slaughtercult\", the band did three US tours, and their first proper European tour, including co-headlining festivals like Fuck the Commerce and Obscene Extreme. The band also appeared at the Wacken Open Air festival.\n\nThe band evolved further with their third album, \"Anatomy Is Destiny\" (2003), which added more sophisticated arrangements, production and instrumentation. Bassist Leon del Muerte replaced Bud Burke soon after the album was recorded. Harvey described the album as \"a big step forward\", but retrospectively criticized the album for its lack of memorable choruses. He said of \"Anatomy Is Destiny\", \"in many ways it's our best album, but in just as many, we missed the mark on a bunch of things.\"\n\nCo-founder and drummer Col Jones departed Exhumed in 2003, which affected the creative chemistry of the band. Harvey recalled, \"After he (Jones) left it was a big adjustment. I was trying to run shit on my own creatively and logistically. The anatomy of the band just dissolved and everything fell apart.\" As Harvey attempted to rebuild the line-up, Exhumed issued a double CD compilation of their early recordings titled \"Platters of Splatter\". After touring North America, Europe, Japan, and Australia, guitarist Mike Beams departed and new guitarist Wes Caley and drummer Matt Connell made their debut. Exhumed then completed recording an album of cover songs titled \"Garbage Daze Re-Regurgitated\". Harvey later explained that the album was intended as a \"stopgap\" album, although the band's subsequent hiatus put the band on hold longer than planned. Harvey later recalled:\n\nDuring the hiatus, Harvey played in Dekapitator, Gravehill, and Scarecrow. Harvey, later remarking that \"the passion for music didn't go away but my passion for Exhumed went away\", came to regret that the band's last recording would be a covers album and, feeling rejuvenated, decided to reform Exhumed to record a new studio album.\n\nIn an interview conducted shortly after announcing that Exhumed would reform, Harvey remarked that \"After a few years off and away from the death metal scene, I feel rejuvenated and ready to hack, maim and kill once again. I wanted this to be a continuation of what the band was doing and was on its way to doing, not a reunion or some weird nostalgia thing.\"\n\nIn 2010, the band recorded \"All Guts, No Glory\". The album line up was Harvey on guitars and high vocals, del Muerte on bass and low vocals, Caley on guitar and Danny Walker on drums. The musical approach taken on \"All Guts, No Glory\" was, according to Harvey, intentionally based on the band members' favoured elements of previous Exhumed records: \"We all agreed that the period of Exhumed we liked the best was \"Slaughtercult\" and wanted to mix that with the technicality and melody of \"Anatomy\".\"\n\nThe band toured extensively, although del Muerte and Walker left the band to complete Murder Construct's debut album. They were replaced by Bob Babcock and Mike Hamilton (Deeds of Flesh), respectively.\n\nIn 2012, guitarist Caley was replaced by Bud Burke, and the band recorded \"Necrocracy\", which was released by Relapse Records on August 2, 2013. Harvey described the album as being \"not quite as fast\" as \"All Guts, No Glory\".\n\nOn November 6, 2014, the band appeared on the season 3 premiere of \"The Eric Andre Show\".\n\nIn November 2014 Matt Ferri replaced Rob Babcock on bass.\n\nIn 2015 Matt Ferri left and Ross Sewage rejoined the band on bass.\n\nThe band released their seventh album \"Death Revenge\" on October 13, 2017.\n\nOver the years of their existence, Exhumed's approach to songwriting has become increasingly traditional in its structure and has been greatly influenced by Metal acts such as Visage. Main songwriter Matt Harvey said:\n\nExhumed's lyrics focus on gore themes. However, the band uses this thematic lens in an allegorical fashion. Lyricist Matt Harvey said:\n\nOn \"Necrocracy\", Harvey wrote lyrics that applied the gore theme to political subject matter, such as a critique of American corporatism and consumerism.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1856770", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856770", "title": "East New Britain Province", "text": "East New Britain Province\n\nEast New Britain is a province of Papua New Guinea, consisting of the north-eastern part of the island of New Britain and the Duke of York Islands. The capital of the province is Kokopo, not far from the old capital of Rabaul, which was largely destroyed in a volcanic eruption in 1994. East New Britain covers a total land area of , and the province's population was reported as 220,133 in the 2000 census, rising to 328,369 in the 2011 count. Provincial coastal waters extend over an area of . The province's only land border is with West New Britain Province to the west, and it also shares a maritime border with New Ireland Province to the east.\n\nEast New Britain has a dual economy: a cash economy operates side by side with the subsistence-farming sector. The main crops produced for export are cocoa and copra. Tourism continues to be an increasingly important sector of the provincial economy.\n\nThere are sixteen Austronesian languages spoken in the province, of which Kuanua, spoken by the Tolai on the Gazelle Peninsula is the most widely spoken. Papuan languages are also spoken in the province, including the Baining, Taulil, Ata, Kol, Makolkol, and Sulka languages.\n\nEach province in Papua New Guinea has one or more districts, and each district has one or more Local Level Government (LLG) areas. For census purposes, the LLG areas are subdivided into wards and those into census units.\n\nThe province was governed by a decentralised provincial administration, headed by a Premier, from 1977 to 1995. Following reforms taking effect that year, the national government reassumed some powers, and the role of Premier was replaced by a position of Governor, to be held by the winner of the province-wide seat in the National Parliament of Papua New Guinea.\n\nThe province and each district is represented by a Member of the National Parliament. There is one provincial electorate and each district is an open electorate.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1856776", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856776", "title": "Tokyo Commodity Exchange", "text": "Tokyo Commodity Exchange\n\nTokyo Commodity Exchange, also known as TOCOM, is Japan's largest and one of Asia's most prominent commodity futures exchanges. TOCOM operates electronic markets for precious metals, oil, rubber and soft commodities. It offers futures and options contracts for precious metals (gold, silver, platinum and palladium); energy (crude oil, gasoline, kerosene and gas oil); natural rubber and agricultural products (soybeans, corn and azuki).\n\nTOCOM was established in 1984 with the merger of the Tokyo Textile Exchange, founded in 1951, the Tokyo Rubber Exchange and the Tokyo Gold Exchange. The exchange became a for-profit shareholder-owned company in 2008.\n\nIt launched the current trading platform based on the Nasdaq OMX technology in 2009. TOCOM will use Japan Exchange Group's new derivatives trading platform, Next J-Gate, from September 2016.\n\n"}
{"id": "1856779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856779", "title": "1980 Grand Island tornado outbreak", "text": "1980 Grand Island tornado outbreak\n\nThe 1980 Grand Island tornado outbreak, also known as The Night of the Twisters, was a tornado outbreak that produced a series of destructive tornadoes that affected the city of Grand Island, Nebraska, on Tuesday, June 3, 1980. Seven tornadoes touched down in or near the city that night, killing five people and injuring 200.\n\nThe name generally referred to by Grand Island area residents for the event, \"The Night of the Twisters\", comes from the semi-fictionalized book of the same name, loosely based on the June 3rd, 1980 tornadoes, by author Ivy Ruckman, which in turn inspired a made-for-TV movie that premiered on The Family Channel (now Freeform) in February 1996. While the Grand Island tornado outbreak is best known for the Grand Island tornado family on June 3, the outbreak as a whole produced 29 tornadoes across two days, and caused severe damage as far east as Pennsylvania. The outbreak killed six and injured 413.\n\nThe outbreak began on June 2, producing strong tornadoes in Iowa, Indiana, and Ohio, including one that struck the east side of Indianapolis. One fatality occurred near Crawfordsville, Indiana. Tornado activity continued on June 3, with additional strong tornadoes touching down in Pennsylvania, Maryland, West Virginia, and Nebraska. Over a span of three hours on the evening of June 3, 1980, a slow-moving supercell complex moving across Grand Island, Nebraska, spawned several tornadoes. The resulting outbreak was one of the most unusual in United States history: The supercells moved over the city at only ; of the seven tornadoes, three of them were anticyclonic; and the tornadoes did not move in a straight line, with most looping back over their own path at least once.\nThe tornadoes in Grand Island, Nebraska killed five, injured 200, and caused an estimated more than $285 million (USD) ($600 million 2003 USD) in damage. In Nebraska, Tornado warnings allowed people to get to safety in time, which prevented a higher death toll. The South Locust Street area in Grand Island was hardest hit, struck by the fifth tornado of the night (an F4 tornado). Much of the rubble and debris left by the tornadoes was placed in a landfill that now forms Tornado Hill, a popular biking and sledding spot in Grand Island today.\n\nIn 1984, a semi-fictionalized book version of this significant tornado outbreak by children's author Ivy Ruckman, a native of Nebraska, was released under the title \"Night of the Twisters\". The book told the story of Danny Hatch, a pre-teen and his family, and what happened to them as the event took place.\n\nThe book inspired a made-for-cable television original movie of the same name, that premiered on February 14, 1996, on The Family Channel (now Freeform). The movie version still centered on the Hatch Family and most of the characters in the book were adapted to the film. However, there were several discrepancies from the movie and the book version. The most notable being the town in the movie is changed from Grand Island to the fictional town of Blainsworth, which Ivy Ruckman reportedly was disappointed about as it took some of the reality out of the actual event. Danny's father's name is changed to Jack in the film (played by John Schneider) and is mentioned to be his stepfather as Danny's real father is revealed to have died in a plane crash when Danny was six years old. One somewhat prominent character in the movie was Bob Iverson (played by David Ferry), who was not included in the book.\n\nDanny's mother occupation is also changed to waitress. The last scene in the film in which the Hatch family tries to outrun a tornado in a car lent to them at a shelter was added specifically for the film and was not in the book, either. Danny and his friend Arthur's (played by Devon Sawa and Amos Crawley) ages are also changed to their mid-teens (though their ages are never mentioned in the film).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1856791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856791", "title": "Intronaut", "text": "Intronaut\n\nIntronaut is an American progressive metal band from Los Angeles, California, that incorporates complex polyrhythms, progressive rock, and jazz.\n\nIntronaut formed in 2004, and their initial line-up included guitarist/vocalist Sacha Dunable, guitarist/vocalist Leon del Muerte, drummer Danny Walker, and bassist Joe Lester. \n\nIn 2005, Intronaut released a four-track demo entitled \"Null – Demonstration Extended Play Compact Disc\". They signed to Goodfellow Records in October and recorded \"Void\" in early April 2006 at Shiva Industries in Santa Ana, California with producer John Haddad. \"Void\" represented the first songwriting effort featuring the band as a whole, as Dunable had written much of the material for \"Null\" prior to the other members joining the band.\n\nIn August 2007, guitarist/vocalist Leon del Muerte left the band to focus on Murder Construct and was replaced by Dave Timnick. Shortly thereafter Intronaut toured Europe for the first time in support of The Ocean.\n\nIn January 2008, the band announced that they had signed a worldwide deal with Century Media Records and completed their next album, \"Prehistoricisms\". As the album was the first without del Muerte - whom the band described as their \"metal riff guy\" - \"Prehistoricisms\" took on a more rhythmic quality that was exemplified by the double-drummer ending of \"Any Port\". They also recorded a cover of Eyehategod's \"Dixie Whiskey\" for Century Media's twentieth anniversary covers album.\n\nIn April 2009, Intronaut toured with Kylesa and Mastodon. Later that year, in October 2009, Intronaut played several shows in Kolkata and Pragati Maidan, Delhi for the Great Indian Rock Festival XIII.\n\nIn the summer of 2010, Intronaut released their third full-length album, \"Valley of Smoke\", featuring a guest appearance from Justin Chancellor from Tool. The album was characterized by increased use of melody and pitched singing, as well as more concise songs. In late 2010, Intronaut opened for Cynic on the \"Re-Traced/Re-Focused Tour\" of North America. Shortly thereafter, Intronaut completed another North American tour opening for Helmet.\n\nIn mid-2011, Intronaut toured Europe with The Ocean and Red Fang, then toured North America with Animals as Leaders, Dead Letter Circus, and Last Chance to Reason, and then toured Europe again with Ghost Brigade and A Storm of Light.\n\nIn early 2012, Intronaut supported Tool on the first leg of their North American tour. After the tour, they commenced writing for their fourth studio album, \"Habitual Levitations (Instilling Words with Tones)\", which was released on March 19, 2013. In April 2014 they supported TesseracT in their North American tour, as well as serving as the live backing band for one man progressive outfit Cloudkicker's live debut.\n\nIntronaut's sound is influenced by a wide variety of genres, with songs frequently transitioning from heavy distorted portions into ambient jazz-infused soundscapes. The guitar work is based around distorted and sometimes fuzzed tones. Guitar parts include anything from driving head-banging riffs to dissonant ones. Various metal genres are represented in Intronaut's songs. These genres include heavy metal, stoner metal, post-metal, and sludge metal. Bass guitar is a prominent feature of Intronaut's sound, often serving as the primary melodic component of certain riffs. The use of Fretless bass guitars on numerous songs adds to the prominence of bass guitar in Intronaut's songs and reflects the influence of jazz, a genre in which fretless bass guitar is common, on the band's sound. Intronaut's songs frequently shift between intense metal sections and jazz-inspired ambient sections. These jazz-inspired passages employ jazz chord shapes and tones with heavy reverb to create ethereal breaks from their more intense riffs. Vocal tones include screaming, growling, and melodic singing, often featuring elaborate harmonies. The drum performances focuses heavily on polymeters and polyrhythms, typical of the jazz, progressive, and various metal genres that influence Intronaut's sound. Intronaut often incorporate more experimental, psychedelic passages into their songs as well, utilizing unique instruments such as sitars and hand percussion.\n\nIntronaut have frequently been compared to other progressive oriented sludge metal acts such as Mastodon and Baroness, though the band members have denied that the latter was ever a significant influence on their sound. A marked stylistic change came when clean vocals were introduced on their album \"Valley of Smoke\". Intronaut's clean vocals, consisting largely of harmonisations between guitarist/vocalists Dunable and Timnick, has frequently been compared to Alice in Chains. \"Habitual Levitations\" used clean vocals almost exclusively and was also largely devoid of the band's earlier extreme metal influences, drawing comparisons to acts such as Deftones, Hum, Oceansize, Tool, and Alice in Chains. The release of the album \"The Direction of Last Things\" marked the return of more aggressive vocal styles and other extreme metal elements, while retaining the more melodic sensibilities of their previous two albums. The album also experimented with elements of math rock, particularly on \"In the Unlikely Event of a Water Landing\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1856793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856793", "title": "Elzbieta Czartoryska", "text": "Elzbieta Czartoryska\n\nThere have been two Polish noblewomen named Elzbieta Czartoryska:\n\n"}
{"id": "1856797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856797", "title": "NSKK", "text": "NSKK\n\nNSKK:\n\n"}
{"id": "1856799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856799", "title": "Baseball at the 1984 Summer Olympics", "text": "Baseball at the 1984 Summer Olympics\n\nBaseball at the 1984 Summer Olympics was a demonstration sport. Although single exhibition games had been played in conjunction with five previous Olympics, it was the first time that the sport was officially included in the program, and also the first time that the sport was played in Olympics held in the United States. Eight teams competed in Los Angeles, California in the tournament. Games were held at Dodger Stadium. Cuba originally qualified but withdrew as a result of the Soviet-led boycott.\n\nThere were two pools for the preliminary round. Teams played each of the three other teams in their division.\n\n\n\nGame 1, July 31\nGame 2, July 31\n\nGame 5, August 2\nGame 6, August 2\n\nGame 9, August 4\nGame 10, August 4\n\n\nGame 3, August 1\nGame 4, August 1\n\nGame 7, August 3\nGame 8, August 3\n\nGame 11, August 5\nGame 12, August 5\n\nThe semifinals pitted the first-place team of each division against the second-place team of the other division. Thus, the United States (3-0) played against Korea (2-1), which had a tied record with Japan (2-1) but had lost in head-to-head competition against them. The first-place Japanese played against Chinese Taipei (2-1).\n\nGame 13, August 6\nGame 14, August 6\n\nThe third-place final pitted the losers of the semifinals against each, with the winner taking third place and the loser taking fourth.\n\nGame 15, August 7\n\nSince baseball was a demonstration sport, no official medals were awarded. The winners of the semifinals played each other for first and second place, with Team Japan taking the gold medal.\n\nGame 16, August 7\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1856804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856804", "title": "Spinner (Blade Runner)", "text": "Spinner (Blade Runner)\n\nSpinner is the generic term for the fictional flying cars used in the film \"Blade Runner\". A Spinner can be driven as a ground-based vehicle, take off vertically, hover, and cruise using jet propulsion much like the Vertical Take-Off and Landing (VTOL) aircraft currently in use today. They are used extensively by the police to patrol and survey the population, and it is clear that despite restrictions wealthy people can acquire spinner licenses. The vehicle was conceived and designed by Syd Mead and has been \"replicated\" in subsequent films such as \"The Fifth Element\" and the \"Star Wars\" prequel trilogy. These films have the popular vision of flying cars, and people use spinners like traditional cars; in \"Blade Runner\", the flying cars substitute for helicopters and very light jets.\nDesigner Mead has described the spinner as an aerodyne – a vehicle which directs air downward to create lift, though press kits for the film stated that the spinner was propelled by three engines: \"conventional internal combustion, jet and anti-gravity\".\nA Spinner is currently on permanent exhibit at the Science Fiction Museum and Hall of Fame in Seattle, WA. Infinite Worlds of Science Fiction\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1856815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856815", "title": "Adam Deadmarsh", "text": "Adam Deadmarsh\n\nAdam Richard Deadmarsh (born May 10, 1975) is a former Canadian professional ice hockey player who played in the NHL with the Quebec Nordiques, Colorado Avalanche and the Los Angeles Kings. Deadmarsh was later a video coordinator and assistant coach with the Avalanche, before concussion issues forced him to step down after the season, nine years after his playing career ended for the same reason.\n\nDeadmarsh was drafted by the Quebec Nordiques in the 1993 NHL Entry Draft, first round, fourteenth overall, from the Portland Winterhawks of the Western Hockey League. He played for the Avalanche team that won the Stanley Cup in 1996. His name was initially misspelled \"Deadmarch\" on the Cup, but was later corrected; it was the first time a misspelling on the Stanley Cup had ever been corrected. He was traded to the Los Angeles Kings on February 21, 2001 along with Aaron Miller, a player to be named later (Jared Aulin), and Colorado's first round pick in the 2001 NHL Entry Draft (Dave Steckel) for Rob Blake and Steve Reinprecht.\n\nAmong his final accomplishments in the NHL, Deadmarsh became a playoff hero for vaulting the Kings past the heavily favoured Detroit Red Wings in round one of the 2001 Stanley Cup Playoffs, after trailing late in Game 4 by three goals while his team was already down two games to one. Los Angeles went on to lose in the conference semifinals to his former team, the Avalanche, in seven games; the Avalanche would eventually win their second Stanley Cup.\n\nA U.S. citizen by virtue of having an American mother, Deadmarsh played for Team USA in the 1996 World Cup of Hockey, the 1998 Winter Olympics, and the 2002 Winter Olympics, winning a gold medal in 1996 and a silver medal in 2002.\n\nAfter missing the most of the 2002–03 NHL season and the entire 2003–04 NHL season due to two concussions (and the next season due to the NHL lockout), Deadmarsh (unofficially) announced his retirement on September 22, 2005 citing the previous concussion as an inability to play further. He was honored on March 20, 2006 before a game between the Avalanche and Kings at Staples Center in downtown Los Angeles, California for his dedication to both teams.\n\nHe had previously played junior hockey for the Portland Winter Hawks in the Western Hockey League and was a 3 time member of the U.S. National Junior Team, where he shares the all-time U.S. record of 21 games played at the World Junior Ice Hockey Championships. He resides in Idaho with his wife and twin daughters.\n\nAdam is a second cousin of former NHL player Butch Deadmarsh.\n"}
{"id": "1856816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856816", "title": "Laminaria", "text": "Laminaria\n\nLaminaria is a genus of 31 species of brown algae commonly called \"kelp\". Some species are also referred to as \"tangle\". This economically important genus is characterized by long, leathery laminae and relatively large size. Some species are referred to by the common name Devil's apron, due to their shape, or sea colander, due to the perforations present on the lamina. It is found in the north Atlantic Ocean and the northern Pacific Ocean at depths from (exceptionally to in the warmer waters of the Mediterranean Sea and off Brazil). \"Laminaria\" form a habitat for many fish and invertebrates. \n\nThe life cycle of \"Laminaria\" has heteromorphic alternation of generations which differs from \"Fucus\". At meiosis the male and female zoospores are produced separately, then germinate into male and female gametophytes. The female egg matures in the oogonium until the male sperm fertilizes it. Life-Cycle: The most apparent form of \"Laminaria\" is its sporophyte phase, a structure composed of the holdfast, the stipe, and the blades. While it spends its time predominately in the sporophyte phase, it alternates between the sporophyte and its microscopic gametophyte phase.\n\n\"Laminaria japonica\" (J. E. Areschoug – Japón) is now regarded as a synonym of \"Saccharina japonica\" and \"Laminaria saccharina\" is now classified as \"Saccharina latissima\".\n\n\"Laminaria\" arrived in China from Hokkaido, Japan in the late 1920s. Once in China, \"Laminaria\" was cultivated on a much larger industrial scale. The rocky shores at Dalian, the northern coast of the Yellow Sea, along with its cold waters provided excellent growing conditions for these species. \"Laminaria\" was harvested for food and 1949 yielded 40.3 metric tons of dry weight. \"Laminaria\" need cold water to survive and can only live above 36° N latitude.\n\nIn 1949, the Chinese started to commercially grow \"laminaria\" as a crop. This increased the production of dry weight to 6,200 metric tons. Farming \"laminaria\" is still a large production for China. However, since the 1980s production has dropped due to new mariculture technology .\n\n\"Laminaria\" is generally farmed using the floating raft method, in which young \"laminaria\" sporophytes are attached to submerged ropes. These ropes are then attached to floating rafts.\n\n\"Laminaria\" is found in colder ocean waters, such as arctic regions. Preferring to stay in regions where there are rocky shores, this allows the \"laminaria\" to attach. Due to the height of the \"Laminaria\", they provide protection for creatures that the open ocean does not often give. Invertebrates are just one of the organisms that live among the algae. Sea snails and other invertebrates feed on the blades (leaves) of the \"laminaria\". Other organisms, such as sea urchins, feed on the holdfasts, which can kill the algae. Red sea urchins, found on the North America Pacific Coast, can decimate kelp, including \"Laminaria,\" if the urchins are not managed by sea otters. Species such as \"Coelopa pilipes\" feed and lay eggs on \"Laminaria\" when it is washed up on beaches.\n\"Laminaria\" expresses a haplo-diplophasic life history, in which it alternates from a macroscopic thallic sporophyte structure, consisting of the holdfast, a stipe, and the blades, to a filamentous, microscopic gametophyte. The sporophyte structure of \"laminaria\" can grow to , which is large in comparison to other algae, but still smaller than the giant kelps such as Macrocystis and Nereocystis, which can grow up to . On the other hand, the gametophyte structure is no more than a few millimeters in length. In opposition to the gametophyte phase, which only consists of one type of tissue, the more complex sporophyte phase is made up of different types of tissue. One of these tissues includes a sieve-like element which translocates photoassimilates. These structures are very similar to mesophyll cells found in higher plant leaves.\n\nA laminaria stick may be used to slowly dilate the cervix to induce labor and delivery, or for surgical procedures including abortions or to facilitate the placement of an intrauterine device. The stick is made up of a bundle of dried and compressed laminaria that expands as water is absorbed.\n\n\"Laminaria\" is a source of the relatively rare element, iodine, which is commonly used to promote thyroid health.\n\nCertain carbohydrates such as mannitol, \"laminarin\", and alginate can be extracted from \"laminaria\". Mannitol is used to decrease high intraocular pressure, and to lower excessive intracranial pressure. Laminarin has two forms, soluble and insoluble. The soluble form of \"Laminarin\" has high antitumor activity, can be used in the treatment of antibiotic-resistant nosocomial infections, can aid in normalizing enteric metabolism, helps to improve enzymatic processes of the intestine and does not possess antigenic or pyrogenic properties. \"Laminarin\" continues to be of active study in today's medical field.\n\nVarious species of \"Laminaria\" have been used for food purposes since ancient times wherever humans have encountered them. Typically, the prepared parts, usually the blade, are consumed either immediately after boiling in broth or water, or consumed after drying. The greater proportion of commercial cultivation is for algin, iodine, and mannitol, which are used in a range of industrial applications. In South Korea it is processed into a sweetmeat known as \"laminaria jelly\", in other countries it is also used in fresh salad form, which is also canned for preservation for deliverу and selling purposes in other regions. Many countries produce and consume laminaria products, the largest being China.\n\nDue to their ability to grow underwater and in salt water, algae are being looked into as a source of biofuel. \"Laminaria\" is one of the five macroalgae farmed for products such as food, chemicals and power. Those five genera contribute to 76% of the total tonnage for farmed macroalgae. \"Laminaria\" is less desired as a renewable energy source due to its high ash content when burned. \"Laminaria\" has an ash content of 33%, while wood has about a 2% ash content when burned. Algae have a high water content requiring much energy to dry the algae before being able to properly use it.\n\nMore research is being done with anaerobic digestion, which is the most promising practice to extract energy from \"Laminaria\". There are still barriers to overcome before moving forward with anaerobic digestion, such as its cost per kwh. \n\nThe ability of laminaria, along with other brown algae, to absorb heavy metals is a current area of interest regarding their use to remove heavy metals from wastewater. Laminaria has been shown by recent research to have a favorable mannuronic/guluronic acid residues ratio (M/G ratio) for heavy metal absorption in its alginate. This M/G ratio is the ratio between the L-gluronate (G) and D-mannuronate (M) in the alginate, a natural anionic polymer that is found in all brown algae. This alginate is able to form a gel that contains carboxyl groups that can bind heavy metal cations such as , , and , thereby allowing these metals to be removed from wastewater.\n\n\"Coelopa frigida\" and related flies from the genus \"Coelopa\"are known to feed, mate, and create habitats out of different species of \"Laminaria\". This is of particular notice when the \"Laminaria\" is stranded on the beach and not when it is submerged under seawater. With increasing amounts of seaweed washing up on shores, there is an increasing recognition of \"Laminaria\" and their close pairing with \"Coelopa\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1856825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856825", "title": "Vertigo (Jesse Cook album)", "text": "Vertigo (Jesse Cook album)\n\nVertigo is the third studio album by the new flamenco guitarist Jesse Cook. Musicians vary by track, including Jesse Cook, Stanley Dural Jr. (aka Buckwheat Zydeco), Art Avalos, Ofra Harnoy, Blake Manning, Carmen Romero, Miguel de la Bastide, Djivan Gasparyan, George Koller, Mario Melo, Etric Lyons, and Holly Cole. The final track, \"Fragile\", includes a second song.\n\n(Contains the hidden track \"Wednesday Night At Etric's\")\n\nAll songs written by Jesse Cook, except \"Fragile\" written by Sting.\n"}
{"id": "1856832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856832", "title": "M-209 (Michigan highway)", "text": "M-209 (Michigan highway)\n\nM-209 was a state trunkline highway in the Lower Peninsula of the US state of Michigan. It was located in Leelanau County in the Sleeping Bear Dunes National Lakeshore. Until it was decommissioned, it was Michigan's shortest state highway. M-209 started at M-109 and went just over mile (about ) to Glen Haven. In 1996, M-209's designation was \"abandoned\", and the road was turned over to the jurisdiction of the Leelanau County Road Commission.\n\nM-209 was the short connector route from M-109 to the Glen Haven unit of the Sleeping Bear Dunes National Lakeshore west of Glen Arbor. The southern terminus of the highway was at the intersection with M-109 south of Glen Haven, a restored logging village on the shore of Lake Michigan on the Leelanau Peninsula. The roadway ran north from this intersection where M-109 made a 90–degree corner through the south and east legs of a four-way intersection with M-209 and Dune Valley Road. M-209 ran past such attractions as the restored General Store and Blacksmith Shop. Also located in Glen Haven is the former Glen Haven Canning Co. building. This building was first used as a warehouse and later as a cannery for cherries in the 1920s. It has since been restored as the Cannery Boathouse housing historic wooden boats used in the Manitou Passage between Glen Haven, Glen Arbor and the North and South Manitou islands. The northern terminus of M-209 was located in front of the former US Coast Guard Life Saving Station, now restored as a maritime museum. The museum is located at the intersection of Glen Haven Road and Sleeping Bear Dunes Road. At the time of decommissioning, M-209 was a two-lane, paved road.\nSleeping Bear Dunes National Lakeshore is a United States National Lakeshore located on the \"little finger\" of the Lower Peninsula of Michigan in Leelanau and Benzie counties. The park covers a stretch of Lake Michigan's eastern coastline, as well as North and South Manitou islands. The park was authorized on October 21, 1970.\n\nFrom its inception in the 1920s, M-209 was Michigan's shortest highway. It connected the small community of Glen Haven to M-109 just south of the community. Glen Haven was founded as a settlement called Sleeping Bearville with a sawmill and an inn, the Sleeping Bear House, in 1857. By 1881, there were 11 buildings in the community. The lifesaving station was built in 1901 and moved to its present location in 1931 before closing in 1941. M-209 was first assumed as a state trunkline in the 1920s. It would later serve the national lakeshore when the park was created on October 21, 1970. The Park Service purchased all of the village by the mid-1970s. The highway was turned over to Leelanau County control on June 5, 1996. It is now known only as Glen Haven Road. Since the transfer, M-212 in Cheboygan County is now the shortest highway in the state.\n\n"}
{"id": "1856833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856833", "title": "1942 South American Championship", "text": "1942 South American Championship\n\nThe seventeenth edition of the South American Championship was held in Montevideo, Uruguay from January 10 to February 7.\nFor the first time seven teams took part of the event; the participating countries were Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Ecuador, Paraguay, Peru, and Uruguay.\n\nBolivia, and Colombia withdrew from the tournament.\n\nThe tournament featured a match between Argentina and Ecuador in which Argentina's José Manuel Moreno surpassed the 500-goal mark for goals in Copa América history, scoring 5 in a 12–0 drubbing of Ecuador. , the 12-goal difference of that match remains the widest ever in Copa Américas. José Manuel Moreno and Herminio Masantonio of Argentina were joint top scorers of the tournament, with 7 goals each.\n\nEach team played against each of the other teams. Two (2) points where awarded for a win, one (1) point for a draw and no (0) points for a defeat.\n\n7 goals\n\n\n6 goals\n\n5 goals\n\n\n3 goals\n\n\n2 goals\n\n\n1 goal\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1856840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856840", "title": "Shadowpact", "text": "Shadowpact\n\nThe Shadowpact is a fictional group of magic-based heroes who fought against the Spectre in the 2005 limited series \"Day of Vengeance\", published by DC Comics. They are a sort of Justice League for the supernatural elements of the DC Universe. Some of the team members are \"Homo magi\".\n\nTheir self-titled series ended in May 2008, after 25 issues and a 2-year run, but the team appeared in the \"Reign in Hell\" miniseries in July 2008.\n\nThe group is founded on a spur of the moment impulse by Enchantress, Ragman, and Detective Chimp to get rid of the Spectre because of his decision to destroy all magic in the universe. They are joined by Blue Devil, Nightshade, and Nightmaster, who christens the group the \"Shadowpact\".\n\nDuring the course of the story, it is revealed by the wizard Shazam that the name \"Shadowpact\" has been used repetitively throughout history by groups of mystics who champion lost causes.\n\nIn their fight with the Spectre, the group is aided by others such as the Phantom Stranger, who advises Detective Chimp when he has been transformed into a rodent; Captain Marvel; the wizard Shazam; and Black Alice. At the end of the limited series, only the six core members remain with the team. The Phantom Stranger, returning to human form, continues to advise the group. Captain Marvel is defeated by the Spectre as he tries to defend the Rock of Eternity. The wizard Shazam is also defeated by the Spectre. Black Alice, after witnessing the final battle on the Rock from afar with the Shadowpact, leaves to be with her father in Dayton, Ohio, without formally joining the team.\n\nThe debris from the Rock of Eternity falls as far as El Paso, Texas. There, the Shadowpact leaps into action when half a skyscraper begins to fall. Superman saves the day, repairing the building at super-speed. The Shadowpact assures him they will stay and protect El Paso. Behind them, unnoticed, the Blue Beetle scarab is found by a teenager named Jaime Reyes.\n\nSome time afterward, the Shadowpact helps Robin in rounding up meta-humans in Blüdhaven, right before the city is destroyed. During the adventure, they are again aided by another magic-based hero, the Warlock's Daughter.\n\nThe Shadowpact are headquartered in the Oblivion Bar, a hangout for mystics with a secret entrance in Gotham City. Jim Rook was the owner of the bar. During the team's one-year absence (see below), a flipper-armed conjurer named Eddie Deacon took over. Deacon retains ownership, despite Rook's return. Rook works to reclaim the bar by not advising Deacon how to run it; for example, Deacon does not know the code to dial earthly phones. The Shadowpact does not take the bar by force, for Deacon has the ability to telekinetically squeeze small things, such as airways.\n\nIn \"Day of Vengeance: Infinite Crisis Special\" #1, the Shadowpact members join other magic users in trying to rebuild the Rock of Eternity after it shatters over Gotham City. Under the guidance of the Phantom Stranger, the gathered heroes split into three groups: one led by Zatanna to gather and reassemble all the pieces of the Rock and its contents; one to act as bait for the Seven Deadly Sins; and one, composed of the Phantom Stranger and the Shadowpact, to actually trap the Sins. The plan works well, with Zatanna’s team making relatively short work of the retrieval and reconstruction. After capturing Greed, Nightshade is attacked and abducted by Felix Faust and the Demons Three, who deliver her to Alexander Luthor, Jr., who incorporates her into his multiverse power battery.\n\nWith the Rock of Eternity restored, Zatanna tells Captain Marvel that he will have to remain inside it to make sure the wild magic it holds remains contained. While the Rock is being restored, Nabu, the last Lord of Order, confronts the Spectre. He goads the Spectre to the point where the Spectre kills him. This act has two results. First, it forces the Presence to notice what the Spectre has been doing and place him in a new host, Crispus Allen. Second, it signals the end of the Ninth Age of Magic and the Dawn of the Tenth. Making it to the Rock, Nabu has time before he dies to explain to the heroes what has happened to the Spectre, and to charge Detective Chimp with choosing a new Doctor Fate. Finding that the Helm of Fate does not fit him, Detective Chimp gives it to Captain Marvel to throw from the Rock and let it fall to Earth, letting fate itself choose the new Doctor Fate.\n\nA \"Shadowpact\" ongoing series saw publication in May 2006. The team is now operating out of the back of the Oblivion Bar.\n\nIn the first arc, a villain group known as the Pentacle, whose members mirror the Shadowpact, is introduced. The Pentacle, led by the sorceress Strega, forms a nearly impenetrable shield of solid blood over Riverrock, Wyoming, and systematically begins to kill the townspeople as a means to summon Strega's master, the Lord of Light. The Shadowpact enter the town with the help of the Phantom Stranger. The Shadowpact is captured by the Pentacle, with the exception of Detective Chimp, who was taken away by Karnevil, who tortures him. In his magical imprisonment, the White Rabbit proposes to free the Shadowpact members so that the Nightmaster hones his skills and meet him on a future match. Nightmaster agrees, and following their release, Enchantress attacks White Rabbit because she distrusts him. After that, they find Chimp and overpower the Pentacle, the Enchantress breaks Strega’s spell, but the necromantic nature of the magic meant that to avoid having to kill anyone to undo the spell, she is forced to instead take one year (which passes immediately) from the life of everyone in the town.\n\nIn their next storyline, the members of the Shadowpact have found themselves targeted by a whole host of villains including Blue Moon, the Wild Huntsman, and the Congregation. They are all following the orders of Doctor Gotham, a new villain who has spent millennia underground—claiming responsibility for Gotham's dark nature as he 'slept' under the city—and has now set his sights on getting rid of the Shadowpact. Strega has also been revealed to be his ally, and he was responsible for the previous threats that the Shadowpact thwarted. During this arc, Enchantress and Ragman are both turned into Hellhounds by the Wild Huntsman, and Nightshade, Blue Devil, and the Ragman are all blinded by the Congregation. Despite these injuries, the Shadowpact manage to force the Congregation to retreat. With help from Madame Xanadu, they manage to cure their blinded teammates and, despite all their recent troubles, the Shadowpact now find themselves in a stronger position in the magical order. The Enchantress gained the possession of the Herne-Ramsgate Cauldron from Nightwitch, which gives the Shadowpact access to information on every magical creature in the DC Universe, while Detective Chimp and Nightmaster have studied tactical and superhero strategies in order to mold the Shadowpact into the best team possible. A part of this was writing the \"Three Universal Laws of Superheroics\", a tip of the hat to Isaac Asimov's Three Laws of Robotics, as recited by Detective Chimp.\n\nCheckmate deputizes the Shadowpact in order for them to assist the Black Queen in infiltrating KOBRA. The team originally thinks this will be a one-time arrangement, but Checkmate's Black Queen informs them that they will serve Checkmate for as long as they are needed, to the annoyance of the Enchantress.\n\nIn the final storyline before the book was cancelled, the Phantom Stranger brings the Shadowpact teams of 1908 and 2108 to the present in order to combat the Sun King, revealed as the power behind Doctor Gotham. In the final battle, various Shadowpact teams from throughout history are united, fighting the Sun King in multiple time zones simultaneously.\n\nAfter his defeat, the Phantom Stranger reveals that this has changed history, and previous Shadowpacts are no longer remembered as failures.\n\n\n\n\n\nThe \"Day of Vengeance\" series has also been collected into a single volume:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1856842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856842", "title": "Joel Otto", "text": "Joel Otto\n\nJoel Stuart Otto (born October 29, 1961) is an American former professional ice hockey center in the National Hockey League (NHL) for the Calgary Flames and Philadelphia Flyers. An undrafted player, Otto signed with the Flames as a free agent in 1984 and played 11 seasons with the team. He was one of the top defensive centers in the league during his career and one of the NHL's best at faceoffs; Otto was a two-time finalist for the Frank J. Selke Trophy. He was known for his confrontations with Mark Messier as part of the Flames' rivalry with the Edmonton Oilers and was a member of Calgary's 1989 Stanley Cup championship winning team. He joined the Flyers in 1995, with whom he played three seasons.\n\nOtto was a frequent member of the United States national team. He played in two World Championships and two Canada Cups, captaining the United States to the final in 1991. Otto was a member of the team that won the inaugural World Cup of Hockey in 1996 and played in the 1998 Winter Olympics. He currently serves as an assistant coach of the Western Hockey League's Calgary Hitmen, with whom he won the league championship in 2010.\n\nA native of Elk River, Minnesota, Otto played college hockey for Division II school Bemidji State. He scored 52 points in 31 games in his sophomore season of 1981–82, improving to 61 points the following season and finally 75 points in 31 games in 1983–84. He was named to the Northern Collegiate Hockey Association (NCHA) first All-Conference Team and National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) West All-American in 1982, 1983 and 1984. Otto captained Bemidji State in 1983–84, leading the team to an undefeated record at 31–0 and a Division II national championship. He was recognized as the NCHA player of the year in 1984. He was a finalist for the Hobey Baker Award in 1984, given to the top collegiate player in the United States. Otto scored over 200 points for Bemidji State, was the first player to have his jersey retired by the school, and was inducted into Bemidji State's Athletics Hall of Fame in 2010.\n\nOtto was never drafted, and upon graduation, sought opportunities from National Hockey League (NHL) clubs. The teams he contacted offered only a try-out, some insisting he pay his own way. Finally, his agent contacted Cliff Fletcher, general manager of the Calgary Flames, who offered him a contract to play for the Moncton Golden Flames, their American Hockey League (AHL) affiliate. Otto agreed, scored 63 points in 56 games for the Golden Flames in the 1984–85 AHL season and appeared in 17 games with Calgary. He made his NHL debut on November 23, 1984, against the St. Louis Blues. On March 1, 1985, he recorded his first point, an assist, against the Montreal Canadiens. He scored his first goal two nights later against goaltender Darren Eliot of the Los Angeles Kings.\nOtto established himself as a top defensive forward for the Flames in 1985–86. Coach Bob Johnson discovered his niche when he had Otto shut down Marcel Dionne, the top player of the Los Angeles Kings. Afterward, Otto was consistently used against the opposition's top line where he used his size and faceoff ability to his advantage. He was most famous for shadowing Mark Messier of the Edmonton Oilers when the Battle of Alberta reached its peak in the late 1980s. Otto later remarked that Messier was the reason he was in the NHL, as the Flames needed a big center who could match Messier physically, especially in the faceoff circle.\n\nJohnson also used Otto in front of the opposition net to screen the goaltender. He struggled offensively early in the 1985–86 season, scoring only two goals in the first third of the year, but as he grew in confidence and saw increasing ice time, his offense improved. Otto finished the season with 25 goals and 59 points. He added 5 goals and 15 points in the playoffs as the Flames reached the Stanley Cup final. The Flames lost the series in five games to the Montreal Canadiens.\n\nContinuing to chip in on offense in the following seasons, Otto scored at least 50 points in each of his first four full seasons. He reached the 20-goal mark for the second time in 1988–89, a season he ended on an 11-game point scoring streak. The Flames entered the 1989 Stanley Cup Playoffs as the top team in the NHL, and a prohibitive favorite against their first round opponent, the Vancouver Canucks. Nonetheless, the Canucks forced the Flames into overtime of the seventh and deciding game of the series. Late in the first overtime period, Otto rushed toward the net as Jim Peplinski carried the puck up the right side boards. Peplinski's shot deflected off Otto's skate and past Vancouver goaltender Kirk McLean. Otto was credited with the series-winning goal. He scored a total of 19 points in 22 playoff games as the Flames won their first Stanley Cup championship in franchise history.\n\nConsidered one of the league's best faceoff men and a top two-way forward, Otto was frequently the subject of inquiries by other teams in trade talks, which the Flames refused. He scored his 100th career goal on October 30, 1990, against the New Jersey Devils and his 300th point on October 4, 1991, against Edmonton. He was the Flames' nominee for the Bill Masterton Memorial Trophy in 1991–92, a league award given for dedication and perseverance. His role with the Flames changed into the 1990s as the team placed greater emphasis on his defensive play into the 1990s, though he surpassed 50-points for the fifth time in 1992–93. Otto was also named a finalist for the Frank J. Selke Trophy as the league's top defensive forward that season. He was again named a finalist for the Selke Trophy in 1994–95.\n\nOtto hoped to remain in Calgary after his contract expired following the 1995 season, but with the Flames facing financial difficulties as the NHL's salary structure rapidly changed, the team was unable to agree to a new contract. He was among the most sought after players in free agency, and was pursued by the New York Rangers, who hoped that he could help their team shut down Eric Lindros of the Philadelphia Flyers. Otto considered the offer, and thought if the Rangers thought that highly of their opponent, he would be better off playing with Lindros than against him. Otto signed a three-year contract with the Philadelphia Flyers on July 21, 1995.\n\nHe scored 41 points in 67 games in 1995–96, including the 500th of his career, when he notched a goal and an assist in a 5–4 win over the Edmonton Oilers on March 13, 1997. Still regarded as one of the league's top defensive centers in 1996–97, Otto helped the Flyers reach the 1997 Stanley Cup Finals, which they lost to the Detroit Red Wings. He scored only 7 points in 68 games in 1997–98 after recording 32 the season before, and had lost some of his skating speed. Following the season, Otto announced his retirement.\n\nOtto made his debut with the United States national team at the 1985 World Ice Hockey Championships. He appeared in ten games, scoring two goals. His goal against Czechoslovakia helped the US complete its third of three consecutive upset victories, including defeats of Canada and Sweden, that left the United States in second place after the preliminary round. The Americans ultimately finished fourth in the tournament. Otto played in a second World Championship in 1990, scoring six points in nine games for the fifth-place Americans.\n\nThe 1987 Canada Cup was Otto's first appearance in a best-on-best tournament. He appeared in five games for the fifth-place Americans, and returned as the captain of the American squad that entered the 1991 Canada Cup. Otto scored two goals in a 7–3 victory over Finland in the semi-final to lead the United States into its first championship game in five Canada Cup appearances. The Americans lost the best-of-three final to Canada 2–0. Otto next appeared in the 1996 World Cup of Hockey, the successor tournament to the Canada Cup, where the Americans again faced Canada in the final. Otto and his teammates defeated Canada to claim the inaugural World Cup title. His final international appearance came at the 1998 Winter Olympics. At 36, Otto was the oldest player on the American team and was counted on to contribute to the American team as a checking center. He appeared in four games for the sixth-place Americans.\n\nOtto and his wife Kary have two children together. The family settled in Calgary, but return to Minnesota for various events. Following his retirement as a player, Otto worked for Calgary law firm MacLeod Dixon as a professional player consultant and later for a company that manufactured golf clubs. Otto is active within the community. As a player with the Flames, he was a spokesman for the Calgary Children's Milk Fund Society, and was named the recipient of the Ralph T. Scurfield Humanitarian Award in 1993 in recognition of his leadership and community involvement. Otto remains active with the Calgary Flames Alumni Association and in 2004 joined the Calgary Hitmen of the Western Hockey League (WHL) as a spokesman for their \"Hitmen Kidz\" community program.\n\nWhile he had worked with the University of Calgary Dinos hockey program for a couple seasons following his retirement, Otto left to be closer to his family. He returned to the game in 2006 as an assistant coach for the Hitmen. He helped coach the Hitmen to the Ed Chynoweth Cup as WHL champions in 2009–10, and returned for his fifth season behind the bench in 2011–12.\n\nCanadian punk band Belvedere wrote a song about Joel Otto's career called \"Two minutes for looking so good\".\n"}
{"id": "1856844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856844", "title": "Gloria Mundi", "text": "Gloria Mundi\n\nGloria Mundi was an English early punk/gothic rock band. The name comes from the Latin meaning for \"\"the glory of the world\"\". This could be a reference to the phrase \"Sic transit gloria mundi\", meaning \"this is how the glory of the world passes\".\n\nThe members of Gloria Mundi included Eddie Maelov (real name Eddie Francis), their male vocalist, and Sunshine Patteson (now working as Sunshine Gray), their female vocalist and keyboard player, cc played tenor saxophone. A bassist known as Ice (real name Roland Oxland, a Dagenham native who had learned his craft in a band called 'Yours' (with Stevie Shears of Ultravox and Faith Global and John Clarke of Daddio Clarke and the Macon Wailers), played on the \"I Individual\" record. When he left to form a band with Stevie Shears, he was replaced later by bassist Nigel Ross Scott. The guitarist, known as 'Beethoven', was Pete Vas, who later had limited success as a solo artist on RCA. The drummer was Mike Nicholls. Following the departure of Pete Vas, guitarist Kirby (ex-Stretch), joined the band for a period and played on the second album \"The Word Is Out\". Following Vas's solo venture, he then went into a musical collaboration with Alasdair Murray. Collectively they were known as Bete Noire and produced an unreleased EP called \"Langham Street\" in 1981. \n\nAfter Gloria Mundi disbanded, Eddie Maelov and Sunshine Patteson went on to produce music for Survival Records as Eddie and Sunshine. cc contributed a memorable saxophone solo to the Ultravox song \"Hiroshima Mon Amour\", and Nigel Ross Scott went on to play bass with Bruce Woolley and The Camera Club and achieved his first major success with Re-Flex, a 1980s new wave pop group.\n\nIt was noted that the gothic punk band Bauhaus completely changed their music and presentation after gigging with, hearing and watching Gloria Mundi. It was also known at the time that early Ultravox and Gloria Mundi had previous connections between John Foxx and Eddie Maelov; Maelov being the principal writer as well as lead vocalist for Gloria Mundi.\n\nGenerally thought by their fans to be way ahead of their time, Gloria Mundi's stage performance was regarded as revolutionary both in its visual imagery and underlying story-themes of isolation, individuality, sexuality, meaning and aggression.\n\nTheir later incarnation as Eddie and Sunshine, a synthpop cabaret style duo producing several outstanding singles and the album \"Perfect Strangers\" which has recently been re-released on amazon and iTunes for download.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1856845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856845", "title": "Dolby SR", "text": "Dolby SR\n\nThe Dolby SR (Spectral Recording) noise reduction format was developed by Dolby Laboratories and has been in common use in professional audio since 1986 and in cinema audio since the late 1980s. It is a revised version of Dolby's earlier formats, combining aspects of Dolby A, B and C (e.g., sliding band and fixed band companders) to improve the dynamic range (i.e., the range in decibels between peak level and noise floor) of analogue recordings and transmissions by as much as 25 dB.\n\nDolby SR is used in many modern professional audio analogue (i.e., tape) recordings by recording and postproduction engineers, broadcasters, and other audio professionals. It is used as the optical analog format on almost all 35mm film release prints, and is always the accompanying optical analog format when Dolby Digital is present.\n\nDolby SR was originally implemented in Dolby's Cat.280 card, which was pin-compatible with the Cat.22 A-type noise reduction card. Thus, devices that took the Cat. 22 card could be upgraded from A to SR by replacing the Cat. 22 with the Cat. 280. The Cat.280 card functions in many devices including Dolby's Model 361 frame. Some Dolby Cinema processors require a special version, the Cat.280T, which functions for decoding (playback) only.\n\n"}
{"id": "1856848", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856848", "title": "Milson Island", "text": "Milson Island\n\nMilson Island is located in New South Wales, Australia. It was first settled over 100 years ago and has been used as a bacteriological station, quarantine station, a hospital to treat soldiers from WWI with venereal disease, mental hospital, a rehab for alcoholics, a women's jail, and now a sports and recreation centre. \n\nIt is in the middle of the Hawkesbury River, so the only means of transport is by ferry. Some of the activities available at Milson Island include a high ropes course, rock climbing, canoeing, kayaking, archery, bushwalking and abseiling. The accommodation is 3-4 stars with seven lodges (Possum, Koala, Waratah, Kookaburra, Lorikeet, Platypus and Cockatoo) and five holiday units. The camp usually suits two small schools or a big school at the same time. It is a popular place for camps for many schools across Sydney, and families go there for a nice, relaxed and fun retreat.\n\nAll that is left of the old mental asylum is the nurses' quarters or hospital. When the mental asylum was operating, an alarm system was set up, so that people on the island could keep themselves safe from mad escapees. The nurses' quarters are now rotted away, but the furnishings from the asylum still remain.\n\nThe Sport and Recreation Centre still uses the refurbished sleeping quarters as the dining room and kitchen. The rooms at Milson Island range from school kids' rooms that sleep up to five people to lodges for one to four people.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1856854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856854", "title": "Tony Tan", "text": "Tony Tan\n\nTony Tan Kheng Yam (born 7 February 1940) is a Singaporean politician who was the seventh President of Singapore & the commander-in-chief of the Singapore Armed Forces serving a six-year term from 1 September 2011 to 31 August 2017 after winning the 2011 Singaporean presidential election with 35.20% of the votes, winning by a narrow 0.34% margin over Tan Cheng Bock when former president S.R. Nathan stepped down from the position. Tan was sworn in as president on 1 September 2011 and held office to 31 August 2017. Tan announced that he would not be standing in 2017 presidential election, which was reserved for Malay candidates after a constitutional amendment on 9 November 2016. He is the only living former president of Singapore.\n\nPreviously a member of the governing People's Action Party (PAP), Tan was the 5th deputy prime minister on 1 August 1995 till 1 September 2005 when former deputy prime minister Lee Hsien Loong stepped down from position. Tan was serving as deputy prime minister with S. Jayakumar. Tan was the Chairman of the People's Action Party from 1 September 1993 to 3 December 2004 after Ong Teng Cheong stepped down from the position.\n\nTan was the Coordinating Minister for Security and Defence from 2003 to 2005 , Minister for Education from 1995 to 2003 , Minister for Defence from 1985 to 1991 & the Minister for Finance from 1983 to 1985. He was a member of parliament for Sembawang GRC from 1988 to 2006 and Sembawang SMC from 1979 to 1988 before resigning to participate in the 2011 Singaporean presidential election which he won.\n\nTan was educated at St Patrick's School and St Joseph's Institution. As a recipient of a government scholarship, he graduated with first class honours in physics from the University of Singapore (now the National University of Singapore), topping his class. As an Asia Foundation scholar, he attended the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) where he completed a Master of Science in operations research. He later earned a Doctor of Philosophy in applied mathematics at the University of Adelaide, and went on to lecture mathematics in the University of Singapore.\n\nIn 1969, Tan left the University of Singapore to begin a career in banking with Overseas-Chinese Banking Corporation (OCBC), where he rose to become general manager, before leaving the bank to pursue a career in politics in 1979.\n\nA member of the People's Action Party (PAP) until June 2011, Tan became a Member of Parliament (MP) for Sembawang constituency in 1979, through the 1979 by-elections. Upon winning the seat, he was appointed as a Senior Minister of State in the Ministry of Education in 1979.\n\nHe joined the Cabinet in 1980, serving as Minister for Education (MOE).\n\nAs the Minister for Education, Tan scrapped a policy that favoured children of more well-educated mothers ahead of children of less-educated mothers in primary school placement in response to popular discontent and public criticism of the policy which saw PAP receiving the lowest votes since independence during the 1984 general election. He also introduced the independent schools system, allowing established educational institutions in Singapore to charge its own fees and have control over their governance and teaching staff, though this was criticised by parents as being \"elitist\" and made top-ranked schools increasingly out of reach to poorer families due to subsequent fee hikes.\n\nTan took on the role of Minister for Trade & Industry from 1981 to 1986. He was also appointed Minister for Finance (1983–85), and Minister for Health (1985–86).\n\nTan espoused a cut in the Central Provident Fund (CPF) in the 1980s, which Prime Minister Lee Kuan Yew had said would not be allowed except \"in an economic crisis\".\n\nTan was also known to have opposed the shipping industry strike in January 1986, the first for about a decade in Singapore, which was sanctioned by fellow cabinet member Ong Teng Cheong, the secretary-general of the National Trades Union Congress (NTUC), who felt the strike was necessary.\n\nAs Minister for Trade and Industry, Tan was concerned about investors' reactions to a perceived deterioration of labour relations and the impact on foreign direct investment.\n\nIn his analysis, historian Michael Barr explains that older [grassroots] union leaders\" bore \"increasing disquiet\" at their exclusion from consultation in NTUC's policies, which were effectively managed by \"technocrats\" in the government. Unlike the previous NTUC secretary-general Lim Chee Onn, Lee Kuan Yew's protégé Ong Teng Cheong in 1983 had an \"implicit pact\" with the trade unions—involving grassroots leaders in top decisions and \"working actively and forcefully\" in the interests of the unions \"in a way Lim had never seen to do\"—in exchange for the unions' continued \"cooperation on the government's core industrial relations strategies\". (In 1969 the NTUC had adopted \"a cooperative, rather than a confrontational policy towards employers\".)\n\nAlthough striking was prohibited and trade unions were barred from negotiating such matters as promotion, transfer, employment, dismissal, retrenchment, and reinstatement, issues that \"accounted for most earlier labour disputes\", the government provided measures for workers' safety and welfare, and serious union disputes with employers were almost always handled through the Industrial Arbitration Court, which had powers of both binding arbitration and voluntary mediation. However, Ong felt these measures did not prevent \"management [from] taking advantage of the workers\", recalling in a 2000 interview in Asiaweek: \"Some of them were angry with me about that... the minister for trade and industry [Tan] was very angry, his officers were upset. They had calls from America, asking what happened to Singapore?\" However the fact that the strike only lasted two days before \"all the issues were settled\" was cited by Ong in a 2000 interview with Asiaweek as proof that \"management was just trying to pull a fast one\".\n\nSeparately, Tan initially opposed the timing of building the Mass Rapid Transit in 1981 when it was raised by Ong. Tan held the view that the local construction industry was overheated at the time, and public housing should take priority.\n\nIn December 1991, Tan stepped down from the Cabinet to return to the private sector, and rejoined the Oversea-Chinese Banking Corporation (OCBC) as the chairman and chief executive officer from 1992 to 1995, while retaining his seat in Parliament as a representative for the Sembawang Group Representation Constituency.\n\nAfter Ong Teng Cheong and Lee Hsien Loong were diagnosed with cancer in 1992, and 1993 Tan was asked to return to Cabinet in August 1995 as deputy prime minister (1995–2005) and Minister for Defence (1995–2003). It was reported that he declined an offer of make-up pay, which compensated ministers for a loss in salary when they leave the private sector. Tan declared that \"the interests of Singapore must take precedence over that of a bank and my own personal considerations\".\n\nIn August 2003, he relinquished the defence portfolio and became the Co-ordinating Minister for Security and Defence, while retaining the post of deputy prime minister. He later persuaded the Minister for National Development Mah Bow Tan to abandon plans to demolish an old mosque in his constituency of Sembawang. Dubbed the \"Last Kampung Mosque in Singapore\", it was later designated a heritage site.\n\nTan joined other dissenting colleagues in opposing the implementation of \"integrated resorts\" with their attached casinos to Singapore. Commenting on an MCYS survey of gambling habits, Tan had said he was \"appalled\" that a newspaper headline dismissed the number of likely problem gamblers (55,000) as insignificant: \"I don't think it's insignificant. Every Singaporean is important. Every Singaporean that gets into trouble means one family that is destroyed. It cannot be a matter of small concern to the Government.\"\n\nTan stepped down as deputy prime minister and Co-ordinating Minister for Security and Defence on 1 September 2005.\n\nTan was appointed the executive director of the Government of Singapore Investment Corporation (GIC) following his retirement from Cabinet in 2005.\n\nTan's tenure at the GIC coincided with moves towards \"greater disclosure in the investment fund's activities amid mounting concerns about the secretive fund's influence after high-profile investments in UBS and Citigroup.\"\n\nIn September 2008 GIC issued the first of a series of annual reports on GIC's portfolio management, governance, and people. In 2008 during the global financial crisis, GIC experienced a significant drop in its real rate of return which recovered subsequently.\n\nOn 22 December 2010, Tan announced that he would step down from his government-linked positions at GIC and SPH to run for the office of President of Singapore. Tan's campaign stressed his independence and his divergent views from the PAP government in specific policies, citing a remark made by East Coast GRC MP Tan Soo Khoon in 2005: \"It is probably the first time that I have heard Cabinet Ministers, starting with no less than the Deputy Prime Minister, Dr Tony Tan, expressing divergent views [on the Integrated Resorts question].\" However, competing presidential election candidates and former PAP members Tan Kin Lian and Tan Cheng Bock questioned Tan's independence from the party. On 7 July 2011, Tony Tan submitted his presidential eligibility forms. Tan won 35.2% of the votes cast.\n\nOn 29 July 2011, Tan responded to online allegations that his son Patrick Tan had received preferential treatment during compulsory military service, officially known as National Service (NS) in Singapore. \"My sons all completed their National Service obligations fully and I have never intervened in their postings,\" he said. Tan also noted that he had served as Defence Minister from 1995 to 2003, while Patrick Tan said that it was in 1988 that he been permitted by Singapore's Ministry of Defence (MINDEF) to disrupt his NS for premedical studies in Harvard University and an MD-PhD program in Stanford University under a President's Scholarship and Loke Cheng Kim Scholarship. MINDEF clarified that, prior to 1992, disruptions were allowed for overseas medical studies, and longer periods of disruption were granted for those admitted to universities in the United States, where medicine is a graduate course. American medical students are required to complete a \"pre-medical component for a general undergraduate degree\" before applying to medical school. In response to a question in Parliament on the subject of deferments, Minister for Defence Ng Eng Hen stated on 20 October 2011 that Patrick Tan had not been given any special treatment.\n\nDescribing himself as \"Tested, Trusted, True\", Tan said his past experiences will help him steer Singapore through the financial uncertainty lying ahead.\n\nOn Nomination Day (17 August 2011), Tan unveiled his election symbol – a pair of black glasses which resembles the trademark spectacles he has steadfastly worn for years. His campaign materials, which included caps, postcards and fridge magnets also carried the symbol. About 9,400 posters and 200 banners were printed.\n\nTan's presidential bid was endorsed by the 10,000-strong Federation of Tan Clan Associations on 7 August 2011. By 13 August 2011, the leaders of 19 NTUC-affiliated unions (which have 128,000 members) had endorsed his bid. On 14 August, the leadership of the Singapore Federation of Chinese Clan Associations (SFCCA) and the Singapore Chinese Chamber of Commerce & Industry (SCCCI) also endorsed his bid.\nThe leadership of another four unions from the construction and real estate sector, which represent more than 50,000 members, endorsed Tan's bid on 16 August. Nine Teochew clan associations also supported Tan. Union leaders in three sectors – Transport and Logistics, Marine and Machinery-engineering, and Infocomm and Media – endorsed Tan on 17 August. They together represent 112,000 workers.\nTan received The Singapore Malay Chamber of Commerce and Industry (SMCCI) endorsed Tan's presidential candidacy on 18 August 2011. It is also was the first Malay organisation to do so.\n\nAfter a closed door meeting with the Singapore Malay Chamber of Commerce and Industry on 11 August 2011, Tan remarked that it is \"not too early\" for the government to have contingency plans in case an economic crisis hits Singapore, noting that \"with his background and knowledge\", he added that he was in a position to provide \"a steady hand\".\n\nSpeaking to reporters after a dialogue with the Singapore Manufacturers' Federation the following day, Tan remarked that it would be a \"grave mistake\" to phase out manufacturing in Singapore, which has been transitioning to a service economy and an information economy since the 1980s. He then went on to describe manufacturing as a \"key pillar of Singapore's economy\". Without the sector, he feels Singapore's economy will be \"less resilient, less diversified\" and there will be \"fewer options for our young people and Singapore will lose.\"\n\nOn 15 August 2011, following the National Day Rally speech by Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong, Tan said that one point he found particularly interesting in Lee's address was whether Singapore would remain pragmatic in its policy making, or if it would turn populist. He added that the temptation to make populist decisions was affecting the presidential election, \"with some candidates appealing to the public in ways that could go beyond the parameters of the Singapore's Constitution\".\n\nOn 17 August 2011, crowds booed at Tan and his son as he delivered his two-minute Nomination Day speech. According to \"The Straits Times\", the jeers came from a vocal group of people who mostly supported another presidential candidate Tan Jee Say. At a press conference later that day, Tony Tan said that while different points of view were to be expected in a campaign, it was disappointing to have people who would not even listen, and hoped that Singaporeans would listen to the views of all the candidates. He said, \"I don't think that jeering or heckling is the right way to go about the campaign, particularly in a campaign for the president, which has to be conducted with decorum and dignity.\"\n\nOn the first presidential candidate broadcast on 18 August 2011, while other candidates made promises in their first presidential candidate broadcasts on Thursday night, Tan refrained from making promises during the broadcast and focused on the role of the president instead. Speaking in English, Chinese and Malay, Tan said, \"Some people argue that the President must take a public stand on current issues. I hear and share the concerns of Singaporeans. But policies are debated in Parliament and implemented by the Government. Others have said that the President must oppose the Government. That is a job for the Opposition. People interested in such roles should run for Parliament in the next General Election.\"\n\nTan sought to distinguish his presidency by promoting a more active civil society, believing that Singapore needed to build up its \"social reserves\" to complement the substantial financial reserves the city state had accumulated over time. An example of this, he said, was the way that he had expanded Singapore's President's Challenge charity event to go beyond fund-raising to promote volunteerism and social entrepreneurship.\n\nOn 8 November 2016, Tan announced that he would not be standing in 2017 presidential election, which was reserved for Malay candidates after a constitutional amendment on 9 November 2016. Tan left office on 31 August 2017. He was succeeded by Halimah Yacob who became president after a walkover of the presidential elections, as no other candidates were deemed eligible.\n\nFrom 1980 to 1981, Tan was the first vice-chancellor of the National University of Singapore (NUS).\nAfter his retirement from the Cabinet in 2005, Tan became the chairman of the National Research Foundation and deputy chairman of the Research, Innovation and Enterprise Council. He was also chairman of Singapore Press Holdings Limited (SPH).\n\nTan has served as patron of many organisations, including the Singapore Dance Theatre, the Singapore Computer Society, SJI International, the Duke-NUS Medical School, and the MIT Club of Singapore. Most recently, in May 2011, he was named as the first patron of Dover Park Hospice.\n\nOn 21 November 2017, GIC Private Limited, one of Singapore's sovereign wealth funds, announced that Tan was to be appointed director and special advisor from 1 January 2018.\n\nTan's paternal grandfather was Tan Cheng Siong, the former general manager of The Oversea Chinese Bank. His uncle was former OCBC chairman Tan Chin Tuan. Through his maternal grandmother Annie Tan Sun Neo, he is also a great-great-great grandson of philanthropist Tan Kim Seng. Tony Tan married Mary Chee Bee Kiang in 1964. They have four children: three sons and one daughter.\n\nIn 2005, Tan was presented the NUS Eminent Alumni Award in recognition of his role as a visionary architect of Singapore's university sector.\n\nIn 2010, he was presented the inaugural Distinguished Australian Alumnus Award by the Australian Alumni Singapore (AAS) at its 55th anniversary dinner in recognition of his distinguished career, and his significant contribution to society and to the Australian alumni community.\n\nTan was awarded a medal from the Foreign Policy Association in 2011 for \"outstanding leadership and service\".\n\nIn 2014, Tan was conferred an honorary doctorate by his alma mater, the University of Adelaide, for his \"long record of outstanding achievements both as a leader in the Singapore government and in the business sectors. He was also made a Knight Grand Cross of the Order of the Bath.\n\nIn 2018, Tan received the top honour of the Order of Temasek (First Class) during Singapore's National Day Awards.\n"}
{"id": "1856862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856862", "title": "Démarche", "text": "Démarche\n\nA démarche (; from the French word whose literal meaning is \"step\" or \"solicitation\") has come to refer either to\n\nDiplomatic démarches are delivered to the appropriate official of the government or organization. Démarches generally seek to persuade, inform, or gather information from a foreign government. Governments may also use a démarche to protest or object to actions by a foreign government. Informally, the word is sometimes used as a verb to describe making or receiving such correspondence.\n\nThe U.S. government defines démarche as \"a request or intercession with a foreign official, e.g., a request for support of a policy, or a protest about the host government's policy or actions\". The US government issues démarches to foreign governments through \"front-channel cable\" instructions from the United States Department of State.\n\nAny Department of State officer or other official under the authority of the chief of mission can make a démarche. Unless the Department provides specific instructions as to rank (for example: \"the Ambassador should call on the Foreign Minister\"), the post has discretion to determine who should make the presentation and which official(s) in the host government should receive it.\n\nDémarche instruction cables from the Department should include the following elements:\n\n\nUpon receipt of démarche instructions from the Department, posts should make every effort to deliver the démarche to the appropriate foreign government official(s) as soon as possible.\n\nAfter delivering the démarche, the post should report to the Department via front-channel cable. The reporting cable should include the instruction cable as a reference, but it need not repeat the talking points transmitted in that cable. It should provide the name and title of the person(s) to whom the démarche was made, and record that official’s response to the presentation. As appropriate, the reporting cable should also describe any specific follow-up action needed by post, Department, or the foreign government.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1856870", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856870", "title": "Chinese Taoist Association", "text": "Chinese Taoist Association\n\nChinese Taoist Association (CTA ; ), founded in April 1957, is the main association of Taoism in the People's Republic of China. It is recognized as one of the main religious associations in the People's Republic of China, and has been overseen by the United Front Work Department of the Communist Party of China since the State Administration for Religious Affairs' absorption in the United Front Work Department in 2018. Dozens of regional and local Taoist associations are included in this overarching group, which is encouraged by the government to be a bridge between Chinese Taoists and the government, to encourage a patriotic merger between Taoism and government initiatives. The group also disseminates information on traditional Taoist topics, including forums and conferences. The association was a major sponsor of the 2007 International Forum on the Tao Te Ching. The Chinese Taoist Association advocates the recompensation of losses inflicted on Taoism by the Cultural Revolution. Taoism was banned for several years in the People's Republic of China during that period.\n\nTaoist practitioners in China are required to register with the Chinese Taoist Association in order to be granted recognition and official protection. The CTA exercises control over religious doctrine and personnel, and dictates the proper interpretation of Taoist doctrine. It also encourages Taoist practitioners to support the Communist Party and the state. For example, a Taoist scripture reading class held by the CTA in November 2010 required participants to ‘‘fervently love the socialist motherland [and] uphold the leadership of the Chinese Communist Party.’’ The central government of China has supported and encouraged the Association, along with other official religious groups, in promoting the \"harmonious society\" initiative of Communist Party General Secretary Hu Jintao.\n\n"}
{"id": "1856878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856878", "title": "Mike Fleming", "text": "Mike Fleming\n\nMike Fleming was a conservative radio talk show host in Memphis, Tennessee. He was a commentator of the traditional journalistic school with an enhanced personality. Mr. Fleming had more than three decades of journalism experience, having worked for several prominent Tennessee and Florida newspapers.\n\nThe most common topics of his show, which aired from 4 to 7 p.m. CST on WREC, were reserved for the city government, in particular Mayor W. W. Herenton and House Speaker Jimmy Naifeh, whom he routinely referred to as \"King Willie\" and \"Neanderthal Naifeh\" for their alleged abuses of government and ethical violations. He also strongly criticized the powerful political Ford family, particularly former state senator John Ford and former U.S. Representative Harold Ford, Jr.. \n\nOn 28 April 2009, Clear Channel Communications Inc., the largest owner of U.S. radio stations, said it was cutting 590 jobs, including some on-air personalities, including Fleming.\n\n"}
{"id": "1856888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856888", "title": "Michael Lent (visual artist)", "text": "Michael Lent (visual artist)\n\nMichael Lent is a British–American visual artist, academic, curator and researcher. He studied at Tyler School of Art of Temple University where he received a BFA, and earned his MFA at Goddard College supervised by sound artist Andrea Parkins, and his PhD at the University of Lincoln.\n\nMichael Lent utilises drawing, installation, text, and video in his visual art, which often focuses on a documentation of ephemeral spaces, landscape, and conceptual spaces in studio. Lent’s work has been described as: “a daring blend of text, sound and image,” in the journal TriQuarterly, which summarized his approach with:\n\nThis notion of the difficulty of representing experience is recurring in Lent’s work, and is also prevalent in much of his research as an interest in alterity and an investigation of an experience of the world alongside perceptions of the world as Other.\n\nMichael Lent has exhibited internationally; recently on display at Bluecoat in Liverpool, MASS MoCA in Massachusetts, and Albright–Knox Art Gallery in New York City. He has also been the recipient of various awards including funding from the New York Foundation for the Arts.\n\nMichael Lent’s research focuses on location and the intersection between space and place. He asserts that the way we approach and experience the world, in fact leads “to a spatial disappearance into place.” In both his research and visual practice, Lent attempts to court this dissolution as an attempt to “uncover and produce an imagining of space” as an investigation into the experience of site without “hastening its dissolution.” Through this he examines alterity as a method for avoiding this dissolution whilst preserving the unknown in space “as an act towards singularity.”\n\nMichael Lent’s research has been presented at the Royal Geographical Society, Americans for the Arts, University of Minho, in Portugal, and Bahçeşehir University, in Istanbul. His work is to be published by Routledge in an upcoming volume alongside other writers such as Victor Burgin and Stephen Bann. In Lent’s book \"Courting Dissolution\", he examines what role art has in colonization and subsequent dissolution. In the London School of Economics Book Review it was characterised as taking “up the problem of space and spatiality as it emerges in the context of a world defined by globalisation and capitalist over-production,” and observed it “brings together an astute and astonishing array of theoretical sources to make sense of a world increasingly defined by globalisation and capitalist over-production.”\n\nMichael Lent was the creator and publisher of Toby Room, a journal that featured interviews and original work by contemporary artists and writers. In 2002, he and fellow artist Jared Pappas-Kelley created the arts organization ArtRod, which encompassed both the public media Tollbooth Gallery project as well as Critical Line art centre, which has since been reimagined as an online project.\n\n"}
{"id": "1856889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856889", "title": "Electrico", "text": "Electrico\n\nElectrico is a pop rock and indie Singaporean band originally formed as Electric Company in Singapore in 1996. This band is still active with the present line-up which includes David Tan, Desmond Goh, William Lim Jr.\n\nElectric Company was formed when David Tan, Keith Colaco, Desmond Goh and William Lim Jr. got together to entertain for a fun fair at their neighbourhood church. The band initially practised in an abandoned steel cargo container. After three years of heavy gigging in the underground Singapore indie scene and developing a quasi cult status, the lack of support for local music and other problems forced Colaco to leave. The band continued briefly as a three piece but disbanded a year later.\n\nIn 2003, lead guitarist Daniel Sassoon of the now defunct Singapore indie band Livonia joined Tan, Goh and Lim . Soon after, the band's name was shortened from \"Electric Company\" to \"Electric Co.\", and finally to \"Electrico\". Keyboardist Amanda Ling, the only female in the group, was talent-scouted by the rest of the band members and was the last person to join the band.\n\nIn August 2004, Electrico released its debut album So Much More Inside and their debut single I Want You which shot to No.1 on the then Singapore radio station Perfect Ten 98.7FM (now known as 987FM)'s official Top20 weekly countdown chart on October 2004, as well as radio station Power98. Subsequent singles Runaway and Good Time were also considered big hits with fans and scored respectable positions on the charts as well.\n\nTo date, So Much More Inside has sold over 3000 copies at retail outlets and gigs. \n\nOn 26 September 2005, the band was nominated in the Favorite Singapore Artist category at the Quantum Mechanics, which was repositioned as a global benefit for the tsunami victims in December 2004. As a result, they made history by being the first Singapore band to be nominated at the regional music TV channel's awards.\n\nElectrico played alongside one of the Philippines' biggest rock bands, Rivermaya, at the latter's first showcase in Singapore that took place at Bar None, Marriott Hotel in October 2005.\n\nThe band also performed live shows in the Southeast Asia region, including the Baybeats music festival in Singapore and the Pattaya International Music Festival in Thailand. The band opened for The Bravery when the New York-based band came to perform live in Singapore.\n\nAfter several months of promotions – with the band giving sneak previews of a few tracks from Hip City at a few of their gigs – the band was back in the studio to begin work on Hip City around August 2005. Initially scheduled for a late December 2005 release, it was later pushed back to 22 June 2006, due to several delays.\n\n\"Love In New Wave\", the first single off Hip City, subsequently went on to become Electrico's second song earned a No.1 spot on the Singaporean radio station 987FM's official Top10 chart show on 22 September 2006. The session in which Love In New Wave topped the chart happened to have lead guitarist Daniel Sassoon as its guest co-host for the day. The single also later went on to top the charts in the Philippines.\n\nThe video for \"Love In New Wave\" was shot mostly inside Ministry Of Sound, Club Happy and at Haji Lane. It was directed by Carl Siahaan. Carl's sister, model/actress Desiree Siahaan made a guest appearance in the video.\n\nFrontman David Tan revealed that all the songs in Hip City describe and reflect the current Singaporean music scene.\n\nIn November 2006, Electrico released their second single, a ballad called \"Hello\" which also can be found in the For Good! CD compilation that was released by Aging Youth Records in support of a Singapore-based charity, Music For Good, in April 2006 .\n\n\"Love in New Wave\" charted No.32 in 987FM's Top100 Countdown of 2006. Electrico also won the \"Local Act of the Year (2006)\" accolade in 987FM's Top100 Special Category Nomination.\n\n\"Love in New Wave\" also snagged the No.16 position in Power98's Top30 of 2006.\n\nIt was reported in Singapore's tabloid newspaper, TODAY, on 21 November 2006, that a special remix of \"Love in New Wave\" was done by Singaporean DJs Aldrin Quek and Akien, and that it became the latest dance anthem championed by British DJ Pete Tong on his high-profile Essential Mix series on BBC Radio 1 in England. \n\nTODAY ranked Hip City seventh in their Top10 list of memorable albums that you should rock out to on stereos overall for 2006 . Describing the album as 'Simple yet melodic, Electrico's Hip City gave naysayers – who claim \"Singaporean rock\" is an oxymoron – a rocking slap in face' & rated \"Love in New Wave\" as a key track. \n\nIn February 2007, 987FM announced that Electrico's third single after \"Love in New Wave\" and \"Hello\" was to be We're Not Made in the USA. During an interview with 987FM's \"Muttons in the Morning\" on 16 February 2007, Electrico announced that as soon as they returned from their maiden USA trip, they would embark on an indefinite break to concentrate on writing new material for their upcoming still as-yet untitled third album.\n\nA repackaged version of Hip City is currently available in Singapore music stores, containing two bonus remixes tracks of \"Love in New Wave\" with one from Aldrin and Akien Regroove and the other is the Tim Hudson Remix.\n\n\"Hello\" debuts at No. 17 in the 987FM Top 20 weekly chart, the highest debut for the week ending on 23 February 2007. It reached its peak position of No.8 in the week ending on 16 March 2007 on the same chart. Eventually, it drops to No.19 in the week ending on 13 April 2007, and finally bows out from the 987FM Top 20 in the week ending on 20 April 2007.\n\nOn 26 February 2007, Singapore broadsheet The Straits Times reported that Electrico's break from the limelight was scheduled to be from six months to a year, and that they would return sometime in late March 2008. Lead guitarist Daniel Sassoon was quoted saying, \" The break will give us time to recuperate, evaluate the band and write new material.\"\n\nOn 21 May 2007, The Straits Times's Sujin Thomas reported that Electrico won their 2nd Top Local English Pop Song award at the 12th COMPASS awards ceremony for Good Time.\n\nOn 23 January 2008, it was announced on Electrico's MySpace that Hip City is now available in The Philippines, Manila.\n\nThe band had uploaded a new song titled \"Everybody's Here\" on their official MySpace site.\n\nOn 10 March 2008, Electrico posted a message on their MySpace blog which revealed details of free exclusive download of Everybody's Here from 17 March onwards .\n\nEverybody's Here is available for download on https://web.archive.org/web/20080321133124/http://www.everybodyshere.sg/. Lead singer David Tan said that the song was written for youths or anybody who feels lost, desolated, low in self-esteem, in despair, and all the negative things people face. Everybody's Here has been released on 987FM for the week 17 March 2008 .\n\nThe video for \"Everybody's Here\" is up and running on https://web.archive.org/web/20080321133124/http://www.everybodyshere.sg/ and also on MTV ASIA. The new blog MySpace message update was posted by drummer William Lim Jr. on 29 April 2008.\n\nOn 13 May 2008, The Strait Times's Sujin Thomas announced that lead guitarist Daniel Sassoon has called it quits with Electrico after being in the band for 5 years. \n\nIn a press statement issued by the remaining members, the band said, \"With his demanding and gruelling career in the legal sector, Daniel had long wanted to take a break from the band to focus his energy on his legal profession.\"\n\nDespite their loss, the band did not plan to look for a replacement and carried on as a 4 piece.\n\nOn 27 May 2008, The Strait Times announced that Electrico won 2 awards at the 13th annual COMPASS awards ceremony .\n\nThey were awarded their 3rd Top Local English Pop Song for Runaway and frontman David Tan was awarded the COMPASS \"Young Composer of the Year\".\n\nElectrico has been nominated for 2 categories in the 3rd instalment of Power98 \"Singapore Music Awards\". They were nominated in the \"Best Singapore Band\" and \"Best Local Song\" for Everybody's Here.\n\nElectrico's 3rd album, titled We Satellites, was released in Singapore on 8 July 2008 . This album was less successful compared to their previous material. The lead single to be released from the brand new album is titled Save Our Souls .\n\nOn 10 June 2008, The New Paper announced that frontman David Tan has been awarded the Martell VSOP's \"Rising Personalities Award\".\n\nOn 8 June 2009, \"The Straits Times\" reported that keyboardist Amanda Ling left the band in May, and that she had engaged a lawyer to review the band's accounts.\n\nElectrico wrote the theme song \"What Do You See?\" for the Singapore National Day Parade, 2009, held on 9 August 2009 at The Float at Marina Bay to commemorate Singapore's 44th year of independence, and performed the song at the event. The lyrics were cited by Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong in his 2018 National Day Message.\n\nThe band performed at the One Movement For Music Perth (OMFMP) in October 2009. The band's trip to OMFMP was made possible with the sponsorship by GAC Events Asia, a company specialising in entertainment logistics.\n\nAfter a two-year hiatus, Electrico returned to play the Baybeats festival at Esplanade - Theatres on the Bay in June 2013. It was also reported that the band was working on new music. The band also played at Music Matters Live.\n\nIn 2014, the band shared demo recordings of their new songs online. The songs, including \"Eyes Wide Open\", featured a more electronic vibe. Electrico's set at the Good Vibes Festival in Sepang, Malaysia in August was cancelled after severe weather, and the band organised a \"pay-what-you-want\" fundraising gig at The Substation in October instead. Reviewing the gig positively in \"TODAY\", Kevin Mathews wrote that \"the crowd was well into the performance — their enthusiasm certainly inspiring the band to give their best, despite some evidence of rustiness\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1856890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856890", "title": "Rademacher distribution", "text": "Rademacher distribution\n\nIn probability theory and statistics, the Rademacher distribution (which is named after Hans Rademacher) is a discrete probability distribution where a random variate \"X\" has a 50% chance of being +1 and a 50% chance of being -1.\n\nA series of Rademacher distributed variables can be regarded as a simple symmetrical random walk where the step size is 1.\n\nThe probability mass function of this distribution is\n\nIn terms of the Dirac delta function, as\n\nVan Zuijlen has proved the following result.\n\nLet \"X\" be a set of independent Rademacher distributed random variables. Then\n\nThe bound is sharp and better than that which can be derived from the normal distribution (approximately Pr > 0.31).\n\nLet {\"x\"} be a set of random variables with a Rademacher distribution. Let {\"a\"} be a sequence of real numbers. Then\nwhere ||\"a\"|| is the Euclidean norm of the sequence {\"a\"}, \"t\" > 0 is a real number and Pr(\"Z\") is the probability of event \"Z\".\n\nLet \"Y\" = Σ \"xa\" and let \"Y\" be an almost surely convergent series in a Banach space. The for \"t\" > 0 and \"s\" ≥ 1 we have\n\nfor some constant \"c\".\n\nLet \"p\" be a positive real number. Then the Khintchine inequality says that\n\nwhere \"c\" and \"c\" are constants dependent only on \"p\".\n\nFor \"p\" ≥ 1,\n\nformula_7\n\nSee also: Concentration inequality - a summary of tail-bounds on random variables.\n\nThe Rademacher distribution has been used in bootstrapping.\n\nThe Rademacher distribution can be used to show that normally distributed and uncorrelated does not imply independent.\n\nRandom vectors with components sampled independently from the Rademacher distribution are useful for various stochastic approximations, for example: \n\nRademacher random variables are used in the Symmetrization Inequality.\n\n"}
{"id": "1856893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856893", "title": "Baseball at the 1988 Summer Olympics", "text": "Baseball at the 1988 Summer Olympics\n\nBaseball at the 1988 Summer Olympics was a demonstration sport for the seventh time. Eight teams competed in Jamsil Baseball Stadium in the baseball tournament. The format used was the same as the tournament of four years earlier. Five teams that had competed in the 1984 tournament returned.\n\nThere were two pools for the preliminary round. Teams played each of the three other teams in their division.\n\n\n\nGame 1, 20 September\nGame 6, 20 September\n\nGame 2, 22 September\nGame 5, 22 September\n\nGame 3, 24 September\nGame 4, 24 September\n\n\nGame 1, 19 September\nGame 6, 19 September\n\nGame 2, 23 September\nGame 5, 23 September\n\nGame 3, 25 September\nGame 4, 25 September\n\nThe semifinals pitted the first-place team of each division against the second-place team of the other division. Thus, Japan (3-0) played against Korea (2-1), which had a tied record with the United States (2-1) but had lost in head-to-head competition against them. The first-place Americans played against Puerto Rico (2-1).\n\nGame 1, 26 September\nGame 2, 26 September\n\nThe third-place final pitted the losers of the semifinals against each, with the winner taking third place and the loser taking fourth.\n\n27 September\n\nThe winners of the semifinals played each other for first and second place. In a rematch of the 1984 final, the reigning champion Japanese team lost to the United States. Since baseball was a demonstration sport, medals \"were\" awarded, but the medals were not \"official\" (and did not count in the respective nations' medal totals).\n\n27 September\n\nSource:\n\n\nSource:\n\n\nSource:\n\n\nSource:\n\nSource:\n\nSource:\n\nSource:\n\nSource:\n\n"}
{"id": "1856896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856896", "title": "Jared Pappas-Kelley", "text": "Jared Pappas-Kelley\n\nJared Pappas-Kelley is an American curator, researcher, and visual artist. He studied at The Evergreen State College, Goddard College and the European Graduate School where he served as Graduate Teaching Assistant for both Jean-Luc Nancy and Paul D. Miller (DJ Spooky) while completing his PhD. Pappas-Kelley also studied with filmmakers Claire Denis and Barbara Hammer whom he cites as influences on his visual work. His doctoral thesis, supervised by Sylvère Lotringer, examines the inherent instability of art objects, investigating what he terms \"the thing that is not a thing\" through an examination of events such as the 2004 Momart warehouse fire and the objects stolen and subsequently lost or destroyed by art thief Stéphane Breitwieser. Much of his current research focuses on ideas of this instability of the art object and the intersection between practice and theory, examining art as a method for understanding the object’s coming together through its undoing. Developing these themes, he is currently organizing a group exhibition that he is co-curating with Natasha Chuk entitled Solvent Forms.\nIn addition, Pappas-Kelley’s visual work, film, and installations have exhibited internationally in museums, festivals, and galleries, most recently at London gallery Five Years curated by Dennis Cooper. From 2001 until 2007, Pappas-Kelley was publisher and a founding editor of the contemporary art journal \"Toby Room\". His articles and writings on art appear in journals, newspapers, and anthologies, including publications such as The Rumpus, and he is a peer reviewer and serves as article editor in academic journals. His direction of the arts organization ArtRod led to the creation of the Tollbooth Gallery and Critical Line art center alongside other media projects.\n\nSince 1999 Pappas-Kelley has toured and curated an ongoing series of expanded and experimental video/film series called Don’t Bite the Pavement.\n\nPappas-Kelley’s first job after graduating from university was in the Bomis/Nupedia offices where Wikipedia was first taking form, and he along with the rest of the staff composed and played with some of the first wiki experiments there.\n\nPappas-Kelley made a brief appearance as a fictionalized artist Jared Pappas in the Robin Hobb novel \"Ship of Magic\".\n\nFilmmaker Claire Denis once described Pappas-Kelley's approach with: \"Jared, well I have no words to say how much I was impressed by him, by his capability to synthesize, by his aptitude to capitalize everything not only for his own profit but also for the group.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1856904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856904", "title": "The Moonbase", "text": "The Moonbase\n\nThe Moonbase is the half-missing sixth serial of the fourth season in the British science fiction television series \"Doctor Who\", which was first broadcast in four weekly parts from 11 February to 4 March 1967. The story features the return, and first redesign, of the Cybermen.\n\nIt was the fifth incomplete \"Doctor Who\" serial to be released with full-length animated reconstructions of its two missing episodes.\n\nThe TARDIS makes a bumpy landing on the Moon in the year 2070; dressed in spacesuits, the Second Doctor and his companions Ben, Polly and Jamie venture outside to explore the low-gravity environment. While they play, Jamie is injured.\n\nSome workers from the nearby Moonbase find Jamie and bring him inside for treatment while the remaining TARDIS crew follows. The time travellers learn that the Moonbase uses a machine called the Graviton to track and manage weather on Earth. Their arrival is ill-timed, as members of the international crew, led by the bullish Hobson, have begun to collapse under the influence of an unknown pathogen.\n\nWhile International Space Control quarantines the Moonbase, the Doctor starts to investigate. Before he dies, the station's patient zero – their staff doctor, Evans – rants about a \"silver hand\". Another crew member, Ralph, then vanishes in the food stores, and the crew learn that their radio transmissions are being monitored from elsewhere on the Moon.\n\nMeanwhile, in the sickbay, a feverish Jamie begins to rant about a \"Phantom Piper\", a figure said to appear to a McCrimmon before death. While attending to Jamie, Polly sees a large figure leave through the door. When Hobson, the Doctor, Ben, John and Nils arrive to collect Evans' body, it has disappeared. They then leave to investigate where this 'piper' is. Polly goes to get water, and Jamie wakes up to see the 'piper' advancing on him.\n\nThe 'piper' ignores Jamie, as he doesn't have the disease, so he steals another patient and leaves. Polly comes back in just as the figure is leaving and recognises it as a Cyberman, and the Doctor realises their old enemies are taking the patients' bodies. Hobson brushes away the cyber-story, believing they died out years ago. He gives the Doctor 24 hours to discover the cause of the virus, or else he and his companions must leave.\n\nWhile Hobson deals with the Gravitron, which is becoming difficult to control with fewer staff, the Doctor focuses on the cause of the viral disease. In the sickbay, Polly and Jamie are attacked by a Cyberman, which stuns them with electricity from his hand and leaves with another patient's body.\n\nThe Gravitron isn't working because some antennae on the Moon's surface are broken. Jules and Franz go out to fix them but are ambushed by two Cybermen and beaten to death. The Doctor can't work out the cause of the disease and is ordered to leave by Hobson. Polly makes some coffee and another crew member gets infected. The Doctor works out that the neurotropic virus has been spread through infected sugar from the food stores and is an organised scheme to destabilise the crew. A Cyberman who had been posing as a patient in bed reveals himself and aims his gun at them.\n\nAnother Cyberman emerges and kills Bob when he tries to attack the other with a metal bar. The Cybermen recognise the Doctor and use their weapons to take control of the central control centre of the Moonbase while confining Polly and Ben to the sickbay. The Cybermen reveal that they want to use the Gravitron to destroy all life on Earth by altering the weather.\n\nOn board the cyber-ship Evans, Jules and Ralph are conditioned to obey the Cybermen like zombie slaves. They are taken to the base and are sent into the heart of the Gravitron to subvert the machine. The Cybermen have been entering and leaving the base using a tunnel that goes into the food stores, explaining the drops in air pressure.\n\nUsing fire extinguishers, nail varnish remover and other objects that dissolve plastic, Ben, Polly and a recovered Jamie lead a fightback from their incarceration in the medical wing. The three Cybermen in the initial attack force are destroyed.\n\nBenoit goes outside to see what happened to Jules and Franz. He only finds their spacesuits, and is chased by a Cyberman. Ben puts some of the solvent in a bottle and goes out. He then throws the bottle at the Cyberman's chest unit, killing it and saving Benoit. The crew block off the hole in the food stores to prevent more Cybermen entering. The cybership is located, but a large squad of Cybermen start advancing on the Moonbase.\n\nTwo Cybermen on the surface damage the aerial, preventing the Moonbase from contacting Earth; however, a relief ship is on the way. The Cybermen use radio beams to reactivate their zombies inside the base, who infiltrate the Gravitron and use it to deflect the relief ship into the sun. A hole is blasted in the wall, which depressurises the base, but Hobson and Benoit use a coffee tray to plug the leak. The depressurisation deactivates Evans and the other zombies.\n\nTwo more cyberships arrive. The Cybermen already on the surface erect a large laser cannon and threaten to blow the base open unless the entry port is opened within 10 seconds. They fire, but the beam is deflected by the Gravitron. Another large squad from one of the other cyberships take up positions around the base. With the help of Hobson, Polly and Benoit, the Doctor points the Gravitron at the lunar surface, which blasts the Cybermen and their ships into space.\n\nAs Hobson and his team reorient the Gravitron to its proper use, the Doctor and his companions slip away. Back in the TARDIS, they dematerialise and then activate the rarely used time scanner to reveal a monstrous claw waving around.\n\nThe working titles of this story were \"Cybermen\" and \"The Return of the Cybermen.\" It was commissioned before the last episode of \"The Tenth Planet\" was broadcast, to take advantage of the strong positive response to the Cybermen. When Pedler was commissioned to write a second Cyberman story, one of the requirements was that the story should have only one large set and a limited number of smaller sets. The first draft of the script was written before it was decided that Frazer Hines would be a regular cast member. As a result, the character of Jamie had to be worked into a script that didn't have much room for him. So in the first two episodes, Jamie spends much of the time in the sickbay. In the last two episodes, some of Ben's dialogue was given to him.\n\nThe first three episodes were recorded on successive Saturdays at \"Doctor Who's\" then regular home of Riverside 1, but for Episode 4 it moved back to Lime Grove D. A final clip, used to carry the story into the subsequent adventure, \"The Macra Terror\", was filmed separately during the making of that story, as the Macra prop was too large to be brought into the studio.\n\nThis story is also the last story to use the original title sequence that had been in use since the first serial; the next serial introduced a new sequence with different howlaround patterns that incorporated Troughton's face.\n\nThis story features the debut of actor John Levene (uncredited) as a Cyberman. Levene would return as a Yeti in \"The Web of Fear\" (1968), and would go on to play the regular character Sergeant Benton. John Rolfe had previously appeared in \"The War Machines\" (1966) and would appear again in \"The Green Death\" (1973). Alan Rowe was cast as Doctor Evans, an early victim of the space plague and also provided the voice of Space Control. He later appeared in \"The Time Warrior\" (1974), \"Horror of Fang Rock\" (1977) and \"Full Circle\" (1980).\n\n Episode is missing\n\nPaul Cornell, Martin Day, and Keith Topping gave the serial an unfavourable review in \"The Discontinuity Guide\" (1995), writing that it was \"illogical and boring, reducing the Cybermen to the role of intergalactic gangsters\". In \"The Television Companion\" (1998), David J. Howe and Stephen James Walker noted that it was a remake of \"The Tenth Planet\" but was \"far superior\" in the way the Cybermen were portrayed. They also praised the music, acting, and the shots on the Moon, but they felt the direction was \"lacklustre\" in places and called the shots of the Cyberman ship landing \"amongst the worst ever seen in \"Doctor Who\"\". In 2009, Patrick Mulkern of \"Radio Times\" also praised the redesigned Cybermen and the atmosphere. He wrote that the scripts \"impart dollops of science without jarring and allow for a good deal of incident and suspense\". AV Club's Christopher Bahn said \"Whatever flaws it may have, and it’s far from perfect, “The Moonbase” has more than enough going for it to earn a place as one of the must-see serials of the Second Doctor era.\" In 2010, \"SFX\" named the resolution of patching the hole in the Moonbase with a drinks tray as one of the silliest moments in \"Doctor Who\" history. In a 2010 article, Charlie Jane Anders of io9 listed the cliffhanger to the third episode — in which the Cybermen march across the Moon's surface towards the base — as one of the greatest cliffhangers in the history of \"Doctor Who\".\n\nA novelisation of this serial written by Gerry Davis was published by Target Books in February 1975 under the title \"Doctor Who and the Cybermen\". Davis opens the book with a lengthy history of the Cybermen and updates Ben and Polly to readers from the 1970s. A Turkish translation was published in 1975.\n\nIn July 1992, episodes 2 and 4 of this story were released on VHS as part of the video \"Cybermen – The Early Years\". In November 2004, they were included in the \"Lost in Time\" DVD set, along with the audio tracks for episodes 1 and 3.\n\nAs with all missing episodes, off-air recordings of the soundtrack exist due to contemporary fan efforts. In April 2001 these were released on CD, accompanied by linking narration from Frazer Hines.\n\nThis serial was set to be released on DVD on 21 October 2013, with episodes 1 and 3 represented by new animation from Planet 55 Studios; however, production delays set back the release until 20 January 2014.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1856910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856910", "title": "Mark Grudzielanek", "text": "Mark Grudzielanek\n\nMark James Grudzielanek (; born June 30, 1970) is a former Major League Baseball second baseman and shortstop. Grudzielanek played for six different teams during his 15-season career. He batted and threw right-handed. He is currently the manager of the Charlotte Knights, the Triple-A affiliate of the Chicago White Sox.\n\nGrudzielanek attended J. M. Hanks High School in El Paso, Texas and was a letterman and an All-State selection in basketball and baseball. His mother is of Galician descent and his father is of Polish descent.\n\nGrudzielanek was originally drafted by the New York Mets in the 17th round of the 1989 MLB Draft but did not sign. He was then drafted in the 11th round of the 1991 MLB draft by the Montreal Expos and signed on June 11, 1991.\n\nIn 1994, with the Double-A Harrisburg Senators he hit .322 in 122 games and was rewarded by being selected as a Double-A All-Star, Eastern League Most Valuable Player, and Expos Minor league player of the year.\n\nHe made his Major League debut on April 28, 1995 with the Expos against the Chicago Cubs, striking out as a pinch hitter against Mike Walker. He made his first start (at second base) the following day but did not record his first major league hit (a double) until May 4 against New York Mets relief pitcher Mike Remlinger. His first career home run came on May 16, 1995 against Kevin Jarvis of the Cincinnati Reds. He appeared in 78 games that season, hitting .245.\n\nIn 1996, Gruzielanek hit .306 in 153 games and was selected to appear in the 1996 Major League Baseball All-Star Game for his only appearance in the Mid-Summer Classic. In the All-Star game, he ground out in his lone at-bat against Roberto Hernandez.\n\nHe hit .281 in 492 games for the Expos over four seasons.\n\nGrudzielanek was traded by the Expos to the Los Angeles Dodgers (along with Hiram Bocachica and Carlos Perez) for Jonathan Tucker, Peter Bergeron, Wilton Guerrero, and Ted Lilly on July 31, 1998. Primarily a shortstop through this point in his career, the Dodgers moved him to second base in 2000 to make room for Alex Cora to play shortstop.\n\nHe spent five seasons with the Dodgers, playing in 605 games and hitting .284 with 38 home runs.\n\nOn December 4, 2002, the Dodgers traded him (along with Eric Karros) to the Chicago Cubs for Chad Hermansen and Todd Hundley. He spent the next two seasons in Chicago, hitting .312 in 202 games.\n\nAfter leaving the Cubs as a free agent after the 2004 season, Grudzielanek signed with the St. Louis Cardinals on January 6, 2005. He appeared in 137 games with the Cardinals, hitting for a .294 average.\n\nGrudzielanek signed a contract on December 16, 2005, to be the second baseman for the Kansas City Royals. He won the Gold Glove Award in for second basemen in the American League. He played with the Royals for three seasons, appearing in 336 games, with a .300 batting average.\n\nHe became a free agent after the 2008 season but did not sign with a team until the Minnesota Twins offered him a minor league contract on July 19, 2009. After only 11 games (three with the Gulf Coast Twins and eight with the New Britain Rock Cats), he was released on August 10.\n\nOn January 12, 2010, he signed a minor league contract with the Cleveland Indians with a spring training invite. He was added to the Major League roster on April 3. He appeared in 30 games for the Indians, hitting .273 but also spending several weeks on the disabled list. On June 8, Grudzielanek was designated for assignment by the Indians to make room on the roster for Anderson Hernandez, he was released shortly after.\n\nGrudzielanek retired from professional baseball on February 23, 2011.\n\nIn 1,802 games over 15 seasons, Grudzielanek posted a .289 batting average (2,040-for-7,052) with 946 runs, 391 doubles, 36 triples, 90 home runs, 640 RBI, 133 stolen bases, 364 bases on balls, .332 on-base percentage and .393 slugging percentage. He finished his career with a .977 fielding percentage playing at second base, shortstop and third base. In 21 postseason games, he hit .188 (16-for-85) with 8 runs and 5 RBI.\n\nGrudzielanek was named the manager of the Arizona Diamondbacks' Class A affiliate Kane County Cougars prior to the 2015 season. Following the 2015 season, where the Cougars won the Midwest League Western division with a 48-22 record (.686 winning percentage), Grudzielanek was promoted to the Diamondbacks Player Development staff, with a title of Assistant Coordinator \nHe was the manager of the Charlotte Knights, the Triple-A affiliate of the Chicago White Sox, from 2017-2019. On June 20, 2019 he was one of four new inductees into the National Polish-American Sports Hall of Fame located in Troy, Michigan. \n\n"}
{"id": "1856911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856911", "title": "AVN Awards", "text": "AVN Awards\n\nThe AVN Awards are film awards sponsored and presented by the American adult video industry trade magazine \"AVN\" (\"Adult Video News\") to recognize achievement in various aspects of the creation and marketing of American pornographic movies. They are often called the \"Oscars of porn\".\n\nThe awards are divided into over 100 categories, some of which are analogous to industry awards offered in other film and video genres and others that are specific to pornographic/erotic film and video.\n\n\"AVN\" sponsored the first AVN Awards ceremony in February 1984. The award ceremony occurs in early January during the AVN Adult Entertainment Expo in Las Vegas, Nevada. Since 2008, the ceremony has aired in a form edited for time on Showtime, which is usually broadcast in a 90-minute time slot.\n\nAwards for gay adult video were a part of the AVN Awards from the 1986 ceremony through the 1998 ceremony. The increasing number of categories made the show unwieldy. For the 1999 ceremony \"AVN Magazine\" began hosting the GayVN Awards, an annual adult movie award event for gay adult video.\n\n\nOriginally, the awards show was part of the Consumer Electronics Show (CES) in Las Vegas, but it grew and garnered more attention over time, allowing it to be established as a separate event in the 1990s. The event started out as the \"Adult Software exhibition\" of the show, which attracted as many as 100,000 visitors in addition to those attending CES. When the show became a separate event, it initially moved to Caesar's Palace, but it has since moved to other Las Vegas venues.\n\nA writer from \"Los Angeles\" magazine made the claim in 2006 that awards often go to consistent advertisers in \"AVN\" magazine. In his article, the writer stated: \"Imagine the editors of \"Variety\" choosing the Academy Award nominations—then handing out Oscars to the winners—and you have a pretty good idea of how much manipulation can go on behind the scenes during the run-up to the AVNs. [...] Actresses trying to secure a nomination stop in to schmooze at the magazine's Chatsworth offices. [An agency] client once presented dolls of herself to editors and writers. Another baked cookies\". Similar allegations have been made regarding the Academy Award nominations and influencing Academy member voting that date back to at least 1988 with regard to movies such as \"Rain Man\".\n\nIn 2013, actress Tanya Tate offered some insights into the industry in an interview with the \"Huffington Post\" about the 30th AVN Awards at which she was nominated for an award. She stated: \"If you are more popular with the fans, companies are more likely to book you for their production\", \"Being nominated for awards help build your recognition with your fan base. People that win male and female performer of the year are generally solid consistent talent that are open to many 'levels', and some of these performers already have higher basic rates than others\".\n\nThe following is a list of the winners in the major categories for the AVN Awards.\n\n\n The category, introduced in 2007, was first called \"Underrated Starlet of the Year (Unrecognized Excellence)\". It has since been renamed to \"Unsung Starlet of the Year\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1856915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856915", "title": "Batman: The Long Halloween", "text": "Batman: The Long Halloween\n\nBatman: The Long Halloween is a 13-issue American comic book limited series written by Jeph Loeb with art by Tim Sale. It was originally published by DC Comics in 1996 and 1997. It was the follow-up to three \"\" (which were reprinted in \"\") by the same creative team. The entire series has been collected in trade paperback, part of the DC Comics Absolute Editions and the DC Comics Graphic Novel Collection. The series' success led to Loeb and Sale to reteam for two sequels, \"\" and \"\", which are set concurrently.\n\nTaking place during Batman's early days of crime fighting, \"The Long Halloween\" tells the story of a mysterious killer named Holiday, who murders people on holidays, one each month. Working with District Attorney Harvey Dent and Captain James Gordon, Batman races against the calendar as he tries to discover who Holiday is before he claims his next victim each month, while attempting to stop the crime war between two of Gotham City's most powerful families, Maroni and Falcone. This novel also acted as a re-introduction to the DC Universe for one of Batman's most elusive foes, Calendar Man, who knows the true identity of the Holiday killer but refuses to share this with Batman. He instead riddles and gives Batman hints from his Arkham Asylum cell. The story also ties into the events that transform Harvey Dent into Batman's enemy, Two-Face. Enemies such as Scarecrow, the Joker, Mad Hatter, Poison Ivy, and the Riddler, among others, also make appearances.\n\nIn continuity terms, \"The Long Halloween\" continues the story of \"\". It also revolves around the transition of Batman's rogues gallery from simple mob goons to full-fledged supervillains. It also tells the origin of Two-Face, incorporating elements of the story in \"Batman: Annual\" #14.\n\nThe project was sparked when group editor Archie Goodwin approached Jeph Loeb and Tim Sale at the San Diego Comic Convention and asked if the two of them wanted to do more Batman work.\n\nJeph Loeb has stated that the genesis of the story was influenced by writer Mark Waid, who, when told that Loeb was working on a story set in the \"Year One\" continuity, suggested focusing on Harvey Dent's years prior to becoming Two-Face, as that had not been depicted in depth since the original \"Year One\" story.\n\nAt a wedding in June, Gotham City mob boss Carmine \"The Roman\" Falcone tries to pressure Bruce Wayne to help launder money, but Bruce refuses. Bruce leaves the party with his quasi-girlfriend Selina Kyle, but they find Gotham District Attorney Harvey Dent, who has been beaten by some of the Falcone mob, and help him escape. Bruce, as Batman, investigates Falcone's penthouse, but finds Catwoman investigating as well. Batman is called by the Bat-Signal to meet with Dent and police Captain Jim Gordon. The three agree to enter a pact to end Falcone's reign, bending but never breaking the law.\n\nBruce, on the board of the Gotham City Bank, uses his sway and his influence as Batman to oust the current president, Richard Daniel, and take over as to rid the bank of the Falcone money it has. Falcone orders his nephew Johnny Viti to fix the problem; Viti assassinates Daniel. Viti is killed on Halloween by an unknown assailant, leaving behind an untraceable pistol, a nipple from a baby bottle used as a crude silencer, and a jack-o-lantern. Batman, Gordon and Dent discuss the murder when Batman sees Catwoman lurking nearby. She leads Batman to a warehouse where Falcone has been forced to stash his money, over $20 million. Batman and Dent agree to set fire to the warehouse and destroy the money. Falcone hires \"The Irish\", a gang of hitmen, to get revenge on Dent, who has been promoted to district attorney. The Irish destroy his home, though Dent and his wife Gilda survive. On Thanksgiving, the Irish are killed by an unknown agent, but leaving the same type of pistol and silencer behind along with a Thanksgiving decoration. Milos Grappa, Falcone's bodyguard, is killed in a similar manner on Christmas. The unknown assailant is given the name \"Holiday\" and believed to be a Falcone rival.\n\nOn New Year's Eve, Batman stops the Joker from using deadly laughing gas to kill everyone in Gotham Square, as the Joker believes Holiday will be among them, and asserts that there is not enough room for two homicidal maniacs. Meanwhile, Dent's assistant Vernon Fields finds evidence linking Falcone to Wayne. Aboard the Falcone yacht, Falcone's son Alberto is killed by Holiday and pushed overboard on New Year's Eve, his body apparently recovered on Little Christmas. Over the next few months, Holiday's targets change to that of the Maronis, a rival crime gang in Gotham. A war between the Falcones and Maronis breaks out, and Falcone is forced to turn to Gotham's \"freaks\" like the Riddler and Poison Ivy to hold his ground. Poison Ivy, per Falcone's instructions, successfully ensnares Bruce Wayne on Valentine's Day, coercing him into laundering money for Falcone. This unintentionally takes Batman out of the equation. It is not until Saint Patrick's Day when Selina Kyle is able to figure out what has happened to him and, as Catwoman, free him from Poison Ivy's clutches. And it is the Riddler who becomes the first target that is spared by Holiday on April Fool's Day, which Batman comes to suspect is a message from Holiday to show Falcone that he knows what Falcone is up to and wants to destroy him.\n\nMeanwhile, the pistols left behind by Holiday and the bullets gleaned from Holiday's victims are traced to a Chinatown neighborhood, but they find the gunmaker dead as Holiday's victim on Mother's Day. On the following day, Dent follows up from Vernon's investigation and has Bruce arrested, claiming that as Bruce's father Thomas Wayne saved Falcone's life after he was shot, that Bruce is loyal to the Falcones. Bruce's butler Alfred testifies that Thomas' report never came to light due to police corruption, embarrassing the prosecution and declaring Bruce innocent—especially in light of the murder of the Gotham City coroner on Independence Day.\n\nSal Maroni, having been captured earlier, offers to testify against Falcone after his father was killed on Father's Day. During the trial, he throws a vial of acid, given to him by Vernon while in transit to the courtroom, at Dent, disfiguring half of Dent's face. Dent is rushed to a hospital, but stabs his surgeon and escapes to the sewers, calming Solomon Grundy when he encounters him. Gordon deduces Dent may be Holiday, but Batman refuses to believe it until he can talk to Dent himself. After Falcone's sister Carla Vitti is murdered on Falcone's birthday in August and her body found in the Coroner's Office, Batman ends up questioning Julian Gregory Day, the Calendar Man, on where to find Dent. Day suggests since that it is Labor Day, that Holiday will try to kill Maroni. Batman stages a plan with Gordon to move Maroni, giving Holiday the means and opportunity. During the transfer, Holiday appears and manages to shoot Maroni, but Batman, having disguised himself as one of the security guards, is able to stop him. Holiday is then unmasked as Alberto Falcone, son of Carmine Falcone who had staged his death.\n\nOn Halloween, Dent resurfaces as Two-Face; he releases the prisoners from Arkham based on a coin flip, seeks out and kills both Falcone and Vernon despite Batman's attempts to stop him. Falcone's daughter Sofia is also killed but not at the hands of Two-Face. Instead, her death is an accident caused by Catwoman. His revenge complete, Two-Face turns himself in to Gordon and Batman, but tells them that there were two Holiday killers. Gordon is confused as Alberto confessed to all the killings and has already been sentenced to death. While Batman dismisses Two-Face's statement due to his obsession with the number two, Batman does point out that since Two-Face killed Falcone and the last of his collaborators on Halloween, Two-Face \"is\" technically Holiday. While Two-Face is imprisoned within Arkham along with the recaptured prisoners, Alberto is able to delay his execution on the basis of insanity.\n\nMonths later on Christmas Eve, Gilda is packing boxes to move away from Gotham, but takes one box to her furnace, containing a pistol, a hat and what appears to be her husband's clothing. As she burns the items, she thinks about how she took it upon herself to start the Holiday killings to try to end Falcone's hold on Gotham and reduce her husband's workload so that they would have time together. She has the wild suspicion that Alberto was lying, instead choosing to believe that Dent himself had taken up the killings on New Year's Eve and that the two were finally working together, sharing secrets together. Nevertheless, she is content with Alberto as their scapegoat, knowing the authorities are unable of finding the other Holiday killer without Dent on their side. Knowing that Dent is not really insane and can be cured, Gilda states she still believes in Harvey Dent.\n\n\"Batman: The Long Halloween\" has received widespread critical acclaim and is praised as one of the definitive Batman stories to date due to Jeph Loeb's involving storyline and Tim Sale's dark, moody art.\n\nHilary Goldstein of IGN Comics praised Loeb's story as \"tight, engrossing, and intelligent writing that never betrays the characters\", adding that he \"mixes Batman and Bruce Wayne's lives as well as anyone has, and brilliantly demonstrates the bond of brotherhood shared by Batman, Jim Gordon and then District Attorney Harvey Dent.\" Goldstein later ranked \"The Long Halloween\" #4 on a list of the 25 best Batman graphic novels.\n\nYannick Belzil of The 11th Hour said that \"Jeph Loeb has crafted a story that is unique to the characters. It's a complex murder mystery, but it's also a Batman story.\" Belzil added: \"Buoyed by a film noir-ish plot that features a Gothic twist on the gangster/murder mystery plot, terrific character-based subplots, and beautiful, cinematic art, [\"The Long Halloween\" is] an addition to your collection that you won't regret.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1856917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856917", "title": "Baseball at the 1964 Summer Olympics", "text": "Baseball at the 1964 Summer Olympics\n\nBaseball at the 1964 Summer Olympics was a demonstration sport and consisted of a single game. It was the fifth time that a baseball exhibition had been held, and was the last time that only one game would be played. Approximately 50,000 fans watched the game.\n\nThe United States team of college baseball players, including eight future major league players and coached by Rod Dedeaux, defeated a Japanese amateur all-star team in Tokyo, 6-2.\n\nThe American future major leaguers included pitchers Alan Closter, Dick Joyce, and Chuck Dobson; catchers Jim Hibbs and Ken Suarez; outfielder Shaun Fitzmaurice; first baseman Mike Epstein; and second baseman Gary Sutherland.\n\nFitzmaurice hit a home run on the first pitch of the game.\n\nCoaches\n\nPitchers\n\nCatchers\n\nInfielders\n\nOutfielders\n"}
{"id": "1856918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856918", "title": "Thomas Schirrmacher", "text": "Thomas Schirrmacher\n\nThomas Schirrmacher is a Christian moral philosopher and a specialist in the Sociology of Religion and Religious freedom. He is known as a global human rights activist and holds a chair in Theology (Ethics, Missiology, World Religions).\n\nSchirrmacher serves the World Evangelical Alliance as Associate Secretary General for Theological Concerns (responsible for Theology, Intrafaith Relations, Inter-faith Religious Freedom) and as Chair of the Theological Commission. Since 2014 he is president of the International Society for Human Rights.\n\nIn 2016 he was ordained as bishop of the Communio Christiana (a church in Anglican tradition).\n\nThomas Schirrmacher was born on June 25, 1960 to the german professor of Telecommunications engineering Bernd Schirrmacher and his wife Ingeborg. His great-grandfather was the historian Friedrich Wilhelm Schirrmacher. Thomas Schirrmacher is married to Christine Schirrmacher who is professor of Islamic Studies in Bonn, Germany.\n\nThomas Schirrmacher studied theology from 1978 to 1982 at STH Basel (Switzerland) and since 1983 Cultural Anthropology and Comparative Religion at University of Bonn. He earned a Drs. theol. in Missiology and Ecumenism at Theological University (Kampen/Netherlands) in 1984, and a Dr. theol. in Missiology and Ecumenics at Theological University of the Reformed Churches (Kampen/Netherlands) in 1985, a Ph.D. in Cultural Anthropology at Pacific Western University (today: California Miramar University) in Los Angeles (CA) in 1989, a Th.D. in Ethics at Whitefield Theological Seminary in Lakeland (FL) in 1996, and a Dr. phil. in Comparative Religion and Sociology of Religion at University of Bonn in 2007. In 1997 he got honorary doctorates (D.D.) from Cranmer Theological House and in 2006 from Acts University in Bangalore.\n\nBetween 1982 and 1986 Schirrmacher was pastor of several church communities in Bonn. From 1996 to 2018, Thomas Schirrmacher was rector of the private Martin Bucer Seminary, a theological seminary seated in Bonn (Germany) with campuses in several countries which he founded, and where he continues to teach systematic theology (especially ethics) as well as missionary and religious studies and is Vice President for International Affairs. From 1994 to 1998 Schirrmacher was professor of missions at the Philadelphia Theological Seminary and since 1995 he is professor for systematic theology at the Whitefield Theological Seminary. He is professor of the sociology of religion at the West University of Timişoara.\n\nSchirrmacher is chairman of the Board of Trustees of the \"Gebende Hände\" gGmbH (German: \"Giving Hands\" charitable Gesellschaft mit beschränkter Haftung), an internationally active relief organisation. He is member of the commission for religious freedom of the World Evangelical Alliance and since 2008 president of the International Institute for Religious Freedom (Bonn, Brussels/Geneva, Cape Town, Colombo, Brasília). He also is their speaker for human rights. According to media he is one of the leading experts on the topic of persecution of christians. Several times he was speaking as expert on human rights in the German Parliament. In October 2015 he was the only evangelical member of the catholic synod on family lead by Pope Francis. He is president of the International Society for Human Rights, manager of the Religious Liberty Commission of the German and the Swiss Evangelical Alliance, and director of the International Institute for Religious Freedom with regional offices for most continents: Brasilia (Latin America), Brussels/Bonn (Europe), Cape Town (Africa), Colombo and Dehlki (Asia), which cooperates with the UN Special Rapporteur for Freedom of Religion or Belief.\n\nAnother main focus of the work of Schirrmacher besides religious freedom in the area of human rights is the fight against Human trafficking.\n\nHe speaks with church leaders like Pope Benedict XVI, Pope Francis, and the Ecumenical Patriarch Bartholomew I and gives lectures all around the world. He is also consultant of the Faith and Order Commission, the Theological Commission of the World Council of Churches, Chair of the Board of Advisors of the Central Council of Oriental Christians in Germany (ZOCD), and Member of the International Committee of the Global Christian Forum.\n\nHe has authored and edited more than 90 books, which have been translated into 17 languages.\n\nSchirrmacher received the following honours:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1856935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856935", "title": "ArtRod", "text": "ArtRod\n\nArtRod is a nonprofit arts organization located in Tacoma, Washington. It was founded in 1958 and went through several incarnations including Allied Arts and Artists Exchange. The mission of ArtRod is to facilitate art exhibition in nontraditional public arenas and grew out of a response to bring contemporary art forms from a traditional museum setting and directly into the community's path.\n\nArtRod has supported four major projects: \"Toby Room\" magazine, the Don't Bite the Pavement film series, and the exhibition spaces Tollbooth Gallery and Critical Line. The organisation has been a collaboration between Michael Lent and Jared Pappas-Kelley. In 2005 they were honoured with an arts genius award from the City of Tacoma for their work on ArtRod and the Tollbooth Gallery.\n\n"}
{"id": "1856940", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856940", "title": "Chad Fletcher", "text": "Chad Fletcher\n\nChad Fletcher (born 30 August 1979) is a former Australian rules footballer who played for the West Coast Eagles in the Australian Football League (AFL). He also played for the Subiaco Football Club and the Claremont Football Club in the West Australian Football League (WAFL). From Perth, Western Australia, Fletcher was recruited by West Coast in the 1998 Rookie Draft, and made his debut for the club in 1999. Having represented Australia in the 2003 International Rules Series against Ireland, he was subsequently named in the All-Australian team in 2004. Fletcher played in West Coast's 2006 premiership victory over , and retired at the end of the 2009 season after a total of 179 games for the club.\n\nFletcher began his professional football career in the West Australian Football League with Subiaco, and was elevated from the West Coast rookie list in 1998. He made his AFL debut in 1999, but did not make his mark on the league until 2002.\n\nFletcher was 4th in the West Coast Best & Fairest voting in 2002 before he improved to 3rd in 2003 and 2nd in 2004. In 2003, Fletcher was selected to play for Australia in the International Rules series against Ireland, and in 2004 he was named to the interchange bench of his first All-Australian team.\n\nFletcher was one of the most prolific ballwinners in the AFL, and played in the West Coast midfield with Daniel Kerr.\nChad Fletcher was sometimes forgotten in West Coast's incredible midfield but did show he was very skillful.\n\nFletcher is also remembered for running into a fence while practicing a training drill blindfolded in 2005, an initiative by coach John Worsfold. He was not injured.\n\nFletcher was also known as a \"prolific\" ballwinner who could accumulate many possessions in a game. However 2006 saw him considered as one of the least accurate kicks in the league, costing the Eagles many turnovers. He was ranked 1st in clangers per game at West Coast in 2006. \n\nFletcher was told that he was not needed in 2010 and beyond, playing his last AFL game in round 22, 2009 against Richmond. \n\nFletcher spent the 2010 season playing for the Balmain Dockers in the Sydney Football League, but retired after the Dockers did not make finals.\n\nDuring West Coast's 2006 end of year holiday in Las Vegas, Fletcher had a brush with death after reportedly choking on his own vomit. Fletcher was rushed to hospital and had to be revived after he stopped breathing. His case was so serious he spent four days in a hospital and flew straight back to Perth after checking out.\n\nIn August 2010, Fletcher was arrested and later pleaded guilty to possession of cocaine, outside the King's Cross nightclub Hugo's. Fletcher escaped conviction and was placed on a nine-month good behaviour bond.\n\nIn 2014, Fletcher lost his license and was fined $1600 for drink-driving. He was recorded as having a .08 blood alcohol level at the time.\n\n! scope=\"row\" style=\"text-align:center\" | 1999\n! scope=\"row\" style=\"text-align:center\" | 2000\n! scope=\"row\" style=\"text-align:center\" | 2001\n! scope=\"row\" style=\"text-align:center\" | 2002\n! scope=\"row\" style=\"text-align:center\" | 2003\n! scope=\"row\" style=\"text-align:center\" | 2004\n! scope=\"row\" style=\"text-align:center\" | 2005\n! scope=\"row\" style=\"text-align:center\" | 2006\n! scope=\"row\" style=\"text-align:center\" | 2007\n! scope=\"row\" style=\"text-align:center\" | 2008\n! scope=\"row\" style=\"text-align:center\" | 2009\n! colspan=3| Career\n! 179\n! 74\n! 68\n! 2238\n! 1634\n! 3872\n! 779\n! 432\n! 0.4\n! 0.4\n! 12.5\n! 9.1\n! 21.6\n! 4.4\n! 2.4\n"}
{"id": "1856941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856941", "title": "Soledad Canyon", "text": "Soledad Canyon\n\nSoledad Canyon is a long narrow canyon/valley located in Los Angeles County, California between the cities of Palmdale and Santa Clarita. It is a part of the Santa Clara River Valley, and extends from the top of Soledad Pass to the open plain of the Valley in Valencia. The upstream section of the Santa Clara River runs through it.\n\nIt is traversed by the Soledad Canyon Road (the second-longest street in Santa Clarita), State Route 14 (the Antelope Valley Freeway), and the Metrolink Antelope Valley Line. Travelers on board the Metrolink are afforded a view of much of the Santa Clara River.\n\nThe canyon lies between the Sierra Pelona Mountains towards the northwest and the San Gabriel Mountains to the southeast, starting at the northeastern end of Santa Clarita Valley. Traveling northeast through the canyon, it gradually slopes up until the unincorporated community of Acton, near which the Santa Clara River continues east towards its headwaters among the San Gabriel Mountains. Turning north towards Palmdale, the canyon terminates at Soledad Pass, just a few miles south of Lake Palmdale.\n\nSoledad Canyon also contains the localities of Vincent, Acton, Ravenna, Russ, and Agua Dulce.\nSoledad Canyon was a vital part of Los Angeles' transportation history. Transit between Los Angeles and the Central Valley was always difficult–in the \"Gold Rush era\" and stagecoach days the ride was extremely difficult, almost straight up-and-down through San Fernando Pass, up San Francisquito canyon, and over Tejon Pass. In 1856, Lieutenant Williamson, on a railroad surveying party, \"discovered\" that the pass, sometimes named \"Williamson Pass\", could provide the lower grades to make Los Angeles–Central Valley train travel possible by the roundabout detour all the way to Mojave, and over Tehachapi Pass, almost 70 miles farther than the direct Interstate 5 used today by trucks and autos.\n\nIn 1876, seven years after the transcontinental railroad was finished, the rail line was laid down Soledad Canyon, linking LA to the north, after a tunnel through San Fernando pass (still used by Metrolink) and the Tehachapi Loop, where trains circle on grades over top of themselves to gain altitude.\n\nThe canyon will serve as the route for the planned California High-Speed Rail line between Burbank Airport and Palmdale.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1856943", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856943", "title": "Philippe Caubère", "text": "Philippe Caubère\n\nPhilippe Caubère (born September 21, 1950 in Marseille, France) is a noted French film actor, writer and producer.\n\nHe is known for his memorable performances as Molière in the 1978 French movie and the TV series as well. His other movies include \"La gloire de mon père\" (\"My Father's Glory\") and \"Le Château de ma mère\" (\"My Mother's Castle\"), and more recently \"Aragon\", \"La triomphe de la jalousie\" and \"La fête de l'amour\".\n"}
{"id": "1856955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856955", "title": "John Moore (broadcaster)", "text": "John Moore (broadcaster)\n\nJohn Sanford Moore (born June 5, 1966), better known as John Moore, is a Canadian radio and television broadcaster, film critic, voice actor and comedian. He works for the CFRB 1010 radio station in Toronto, Ontario, Canada.\n\nMoore was born in Montreal, Quebec, and grew up in Notre-Dame-de-Grâce, a predominantly English-speaking area of Montreal. He attended West Hill High School, where he served as student body president. Moore began his post-secondary studies at Vanier College. While attending university he taught pre-school and worked in corporate public relations. He graduated with dual degrees in Communications at Concordia University, and from the School of Community and Public Affairs.\n\nMoore launched his career in radio journalism as a reporter at CHOM-FM in Montreal. He was also active in improv, being a founding member Montreal's On The Spot players.\n\nSince 1999, Moore has worked as an entertainment reporter and film reviewer on the morning show at radio station CFRB 1010 in Toronto, Ontario usually Mondays to Fridays at 7:50 a.m. Not long after the 2003 departure of John Oakley to competing station CFMJ, he began hosting \"The John Moore Show\" during afternoon drive time. Moore is an entertainment reporter for CFRB's sister station CJAD. In the fall of 2009 it was announced that John would replace Bill Carroll as the morning host on Newstalk 1010.\n\n\"Moore in the Morning\" began airing on October 5, 2009. The show features a number of contributors including: sports anchor Mike Toth, \"National Post\" columnist Christie Blatchford, \"Maclean's\" National Editor Andrew Coyne, movie critic Richard Crouse, and business reporter Rubina Ahmed-Haq. The show is produced by Jessie Lorraine. The technical producer is Robert Turner. \"Moore in the Morning\" airs weekday mornings from 5:30am to 9:00am.\n\nHe has previously worked for Radio-Canada, French language radio and hosted a television fishing show. Moore also hosted \"Mystery Ink\", a show about mystery fiction that aired frequently on the Mystery TV specialty television channel. Moore was also the host of \"Escalator Movie Reviews\" on Global TV. Moore is also the host of \"Guy Stuff\", a panel discussion program on mentv and Fox Sports World Canada.\n\nHe has worked as a voice artist on the animated television series \"Ripley's Believe It or Not!\", \"The Little Lulu Show\", \"Arthur\", \"A Miss Mallard Mystery\", \"Caillou\", \"Flight Squad\", \"Jim Button\", \"Animal Crackers\", \"The Country Mouse and the City Mouse Adventures\", \"The Triplets\", \"Team S.O.S.\" and \"Potatoes and Dragons\", and on three video games including \"Wizardry 8\", \"Splinter Cell\" and \"\".\n\nMoore considers his most memorable news reporting experience to have occurred years after he had given up hard news coverage when he found himself in New York City when the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks occurred. In 2006, Moore appeared as a contestant on the game show, \"Jeopardy!\" He placed last, finishing with a negative amount of money. On November 26, 2007, \"The John Moore Show\" did a segment in which he questioned the factual accuracy of Wikipedia.\n\nMoore lives in Toronto. He has a column in the \"National Post\".\n"}
{"id": "1856958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856958", "title": "Overmighty subject", "text": "Overmighty subject\n\nOvermighty subject (or overmighty baron) is a term associated with bastard feudalism. It denotes a royal subject in late medieval England who, through financial, military and/or personal influence, wielded powers on a par with, or beyond those of, the king himself. Thomas of Lancaster is an example of an overmighty subject.\n\n"}
{"id": "1856988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856988", "title": "R31 (South Africa)", "text": "R31 (South Africa)\n\nThe R31 is a provincial route in South Africa that connects Kimberley with the Namibian border via Kuruman and Hotazel. It is co-signed with the R360 between Askham and Andriesvale.\n\nSome sections of this road are gravel road.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857050", "title": "Zigong", "text": "Zigong\n\nZigong (), formed by the merger of the two former towns of Ziliujing (Tzuliuching) and Gongjing (Kungching), is a prefecture-level city and the third largest city in Sichuan, China.\n\nZigong is located in the Sichuan Basin, and has an area extension of . Granted the recognition as one of the \"Historical and Cultural Cities of China\" by the State Council of the People's Republic of China. Zigong has long been renowned as \"Salt City\" for its brine extraction techniques and the attendant salt-related culture. In ancient China, Salt was regarded as the energy for body and valued higher even than Gold. Therefore, salt trading was always the most profitable business and salt merchants were the wealthiest people. Hence, Zigong had always been one of the richest cities in China until the founding of the People's Republic of China with the introduction of new salt producing methods and advancing of technologies. It has had the Zigong Salt Museum since 1736.\n\nThe Fuxi River, a tributary to the Yangtze River, snakes through the city's core. The area is very humid and the visibility can be reduced dramatically in the area due to ground fog. The humidity and fog of Zigong can be attributed to that it sits on what was once a vast inland sea. Changes in the environment caused the water levels to subside leaving salt, brine, and natural gas.\n\nZigong is situated south of the Sichuan basin hill country. To the east of Zigong is Luzhou and to the west of Zigong is Leshan. To Zigong's south is Yibin and to the north-east is the city of Neijiang.\n\nAccording to the 2010 Census, the prefecture-level city of Zigong has a population of 2,678,899 inhabitants less than in 2000 (the average annual population growth for the period 2000-2010 was of -1.24%). Nevertheless, the built-up (\"or metro\") area made of 4 urban districts is still growing with 1,262,064 inhabitants (1,051,384 in 2000).\n\nAlthough the region has rich history into antiquity, the prefecture-level city called \"Zigong\" is a modern name. In 1939, two older cities were combined to make Zigong - Ziliujing (some have romanized this name as \"Tzeliutsing\") and Gongjing to be named Zigong. The Zigong name is a combination of both older cities names.\n\nToday there are four municipal districts and two counties of the Zigong Prefecture. The information here presented uses the metric system and data from 2010 Census.\nBoth previous cities - Gongjing and Ziliujing made up what had become one of the busiest saltworks (or saltyards as they are called locally) in China - the Furong Saltyard. The main products were a uniquely rich salt called \"hua\" salt - which dominated salt from the other Sichuan producers and the \"ba\" salt which became popular in other provinces in China.\n\nThe area of Zigong has a long history in ancient China - with the invention and development of \"Percussion Drilling rig\" being one of the city's accomplishments. There are essentially two cities - that of the old and the new. The city was reached by rail in the 1950s. Several four-lane highways reach the city from other cities in the Sichuan province. The new city of Zigong has been modernizing since the late 1970s - but more rapidly since the early 1990s. The old \"Salt\" city is based on industry and farmland and a new \"Tourism\" city which caters primarily to Chinese tourists (as Zigong is better known within mainland China). Zigong is host to the Sichuan University of Science and Engineering as well as a new High Technology Zone.\n\nIn the 1980s, vast dinosaur fossils were excavated in the Shaximiao Formation, near the town of Dashanpu north-east from downtown Zigong, including a dinosaur named after the township, \"Dashanpusaurus\". Because of the unique and intact bone remains, Zigong has ever since been attracting paleontologists and dinosaur enthusiasts from around the world. In 1987, the Zigong Dinosaur Museum () was established, becoming the first specialized dinosaur museum open in Asia. Mounted specimens include \"Omeisaurus\", \"Gigantspinosaurus\", \"Yangchuanosaurus hepingensis\", \"Huayangosaurus\" and \"Xiaosaurus\".\n\nSalt was once one of the major sources of revenue for China. To give an idea of how much money was generated from salt in China - after the fall of the last emperor, the Republic of China under Sun Yat-sen secured loans based upon the revenues of the Chinese Salt Administration (the government agency in charge of taxation on salt). The chief inspector of that administration stated \"The best salt in China is produced from the salt wells of Sichuan\". The best salt wells in Sichuan are in Ziliujing District, Zigong.\n\nThe people of Zigong have been drilling in the area for Salt since before the Han Dynasty (76-88 A.D.) to extract salt from brine. Some historian estimates are that China has been active in producing salt since about 6000 BC. The brine aquifers in the area have salinity of at least 50 grams per liter. The classical method of drilling and production was the following: a drilling rig is erected and a borehole is drilled using a drilling bit and rope. Brine is extracted by dropping a long tube down the borehole. A membrane valve then captures the brine for retrieval on the surface. Once the brine is retrieved it's then piped to flat pans for boiling. In the boiling process some water and crushed yellow soybean is added. The soybean absorbs the impurities in the salt. Once boiled, a yellow layer is formed - this is scraped off leaving absolutely pure salt. The salt is a medium grain salt with different size flakes which have a very strong and unique salt taste. This salt has no additives so it does clump. Locals use grains of rice in the salt to keep the salt from clumping.\n\nEarly methods of brine salt production involved digging large pits in the earth (other parts of China used the evaporation method). Later methods involved very innovative drilling and retrieval methods. An unexpected byproduct of the drilling and resulting wells was natural gas. Since natural gas didn't have the uses it does today, it was channeled into pipes and primarily used onsite to boil the brine and extract the salt. The salt Zigong produced was very rich in taste and was served to the Emperor of China as a tribute. The people of Zigong believe its taste to be superior to the popular French sea salts such as Fleur de sel.\n\nSalt production via boreholes was once prevalent in the entire Sichuan area - but for several factors (war, rebellion, taxes, wells drying up) Zigong became the center of production. Salt wells in Zigong were deeper and had better brine salinity - making for better yields in the salt extraction process. The method in which boreholes were drilled is significant. In 1835, the world's (at that time) deepest well was drilled reaching 3,300 feet. The miners of Zigong refined the techniques of deep borehole drilling. Later, Europeans copied and further refined the percussion drilling methods - so its effects can be seen in the modern Drilling rig used for oil and water.\n\nSalt became an engine of commerce and wealth for Zigong. There were cheaper methods for salt production, as to start a borehole well cost 3,000 pieces of silver, but transportation cost into the Sichuan valley negated the cheaper production methods (as they usually involved sea water). Zigong is located in the central Chinese Sichuan province, which was a large basin, surrounded by mountains on three sides and therefore somewhat isolated. Before refrigeration was available salt was a key chemical used in preserving vegetables, meat, and fish. Because of the factors mentioned above (war, wells drying up, and a rebellion) Zigong became a significant supplier of salt to the Sichuan province up until the 1930s. In 1892, miners discovered a vein of rocksalt that feeds Zigongs aquifers. In 1946, a well was drilled with a rotary drillbit. Ancient percussion drilling methods became obsolete and most of the drilling rigs were torn down due to decay. Today, only one traditional salt well still exists, the Shenhai Well, as a tribute to the workers and industry. The Shenhai Well (Bore depth: 1,001.4 meters/4,400 feet) still operates using the older manual methods of pumping and boiling. The salt is used for pickling or canning - and makes an important ingredient to Sichuan style pickles (which are a local favorite). In the modern day, Zigong is a primary source for Natural Gas, Coal, and Inorganic Chemical Production in addition to salt.\n\nZigong is the originator of the Chinese Lantern Festival - which has been copied in Beijing, Hong Kong, and Shanghai. As one of the Historical and Cultural Cities of China, Zigong is called \"Lantern Town in the South Kingdom\". In recent years, although the annual lantern show forces the local residents to endure unpredictable and extended blackouts during China's Spring Festival, the lantern festival is a boon for tourism in the remote but tranquil city and generates large revenues for the local government. The pattern of Lantern Show, a paradigm of China's festival economy, has been copied throughout China, which dilutes the uniqueness of Zigong's original version. As a measure to promote the city, the lantern show has already been brought to many cities in mainland China and even southeast Asia throughout of the years.\n\nSince China is on a Lunar calendar - known in the west as the Chinese calendar, Spring Festival - which is also known as Chinese New Year will vary each year on a Gregorian calendar - but is roughly between January 16 and February 19 each year - depending on which of the Twelve earthly branches it is currently.\n\nThe Lantern Festival has been going on since the Tang dynasty and gets more elaborate each year and is certainly a sight to behold.\n\nNow a historic teahouse built by the Sichuan-based salt merchants originally served as a guild hall for salt merchants. Originally called the Wang Sanwei Linneage Hall - it's now called the Wangye Miao Teahouse. The Wangye Miao Teahouse was popular during the height of the salt trade and still stands along a bend in the Fuxi River - which runs through the center of Zigong. The structure has classic Chinese architecture and still operates today. The teahouse is located next to the river, on Binjiang Lu street. The teahouse is in fact part of the Zigong Salt Museum and is used to generate funds for the museum. However, the original purpose of the Teahouse was the assembly hall for shipping merchants and was called Wangye Miao Temple. For its origin please refer to \"Merchants Assembly Halls\" below.\n\nAlong the Fuxi river are several stone paved roads that are called the \"ancient streets\". This section of Zigong has traditional houses and shops, typical of life in the days that Zigong was a bustling Salt trade center. Several salt well heads are capped and marked along the streets that wind along the river. At the end of the street is a hand rowed ferry boat that takes a visitor to the opposite shore where stone steps led up into the city.\n\nSince the first century, thousands of pre-eminent people have been calling Zigong home. Among them the most famous individuals are Wu Yuzhang, Gao Min, Liu Guangdi, . Li Zongwu (1879-1943), founder of Thick Black Theory, was also from Ziliujing.\n\nIndeed, in 1993, Zigong officials began to seize more than 2,500 acres of farm land, on which 30,000 farmers had lived for generations. The farmers were offered small living stipends and what they considered inadequate compensation, so they refuse to relocate and organised sit-ins. Police came to the villages many times to \"clean out\" villagers. Between 1995 and 2005, Mr. Liu Zhengyou, who had been designated by the farmers as their leader, petitioned the government for investigation and review. On April 20, 2005, villagers tried to hand in a petition to the Mayor of Zigong, but were stopped by the police. During the altercation with the police, several villagers were badly injured, including Mr. Liu. Mr. Liu and several others were then briefly detained for \"disorderly conduct\" and \"obstruction of traffic\".\n\nThe 2010 Peace Nobel Prize winner Liu Xiaobo wrote that when Liu Zhengyou was kidnapped on April 16, 2006 at Beijing Airport to fly to Geneva to attend the UN human rights conference, it was a trial for the new UN Human Rights Council to see if it's capable of responding to this evident human rights abuse and tell the world whether the reformed UN human rights organization can live up to its expectation or not.\n\nZiliugong (once known as Silver City) is the ancestral home of the Beijing born novelist Li Rui. One of Li Rui's best known works, titled \"Silver City\" (, not to be confused with ), recounts the history of the Li family clan that held large stakes in the salt industry of what is modern day Zigong.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1857053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857053", "title": "Rapid deployment force", "text": "Rapid deployment force\n\nA rapid deployment force is a military formation capable of quick deployment of its forces. Such forces typically consist of elite military units (special forces, paratroopers, marines, etc.) and are usually trained at a higher intensity than the rest of their country's military. They usually receive priority in equipment and training to prepare them for their mission. Quick Response Force (QRF) should not be confused with Rapid Deployment Forces (US) or Rapid Response (NATO). QRF units are most often units that react to local or regional issues within their area of jurisdiction, e.g. National Guard, militias, Forward Deployed, para-military forces, etc.\n\nRapid deployment forces in most militaries are used for deployment outside of their country's borders. The US Army's 82nd Airborne Division and 75th Ranger Regiment are examples of Rapid Deployment Forces. Both units have the mission of having combat troops \"Wheels Up\" (en route by aircraft) within 18 hours of executive notification. Both units have the capability of \"Forced Entry\" into a territory to seize and secure key terrain, e.g. Drop Zone (DZ), airfield or airport, to accommodate follow up forces. A good example of this was the Operation Urgent Fury. The Rangers were at the staging base in Barbados in less than 18 hours from notification followed by the 82nd Airborne Division. The title of Rapid Deployment Forces is often associated with the US Marines. Members of the United States Marine Corps are stationed worldwide on ships, off the coasts of troubled regions and are already in place. That mission status usually places them into the category of \"Forward Deployed\" in the same manner as the United States Army's 2nd Infantry Division in the Republic of Korea (ROK) is forward-deployed on the DMZ.\n\nExamples of Rapid Deployment Forces include:\n\n"}
{"id": "1857055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857055", "title": "Saint George's Night Uprising", "text": "Saint George's Night Uprising\n\nSaint George's Night Uprising in 1343–1345 (, ) was an unsuccessful attempt by the indigenous Estonian population in the Duchy of Estonia, the Bishopric of Ösel-Wiek, and the insular territories of the State of the Teutonic Order to rid themselves of Danish and German rulers and landlords who had conquered the country in the 13th century during the Livonian Crusade; and to eradicate the non-indigenous Christian religion. After initial success the revolt was ended by the invasion of the Teutonic Order. In 1346, the Duchy of Estonia was sold for 19,000 Köln marks by the King of Denmark to the Teutonic Order. The shift of sovereignty from Denmark to the State of the Teutonic Order took place on November 1, 1346.\n\nWith the conquest of Ösel (Saaremaa) by the Livonian Order in 1261, Estonia was completely colonized by the Northern Crusaders from Germany and Denmark. The foreign rulers imposed taxes and duties even as the indigenous population retained individual rights, such as the right to bear arms. Oppression hardened as the foreign ruling class started to build manor-houses all over the country. The weight of duties to the lay masters was redoubled by religious repression of indigenous religion and economic exploitation imposed by the Catholic Church. The area was also politically unstable. The Estonian provinces of Harria (Harju) and Vironia (Viru) had been conquered by Denmark but by the 14th century the kingdom's power had weakened. The province in Estonia became split between a pro-Danish party led by bishop Olaf of Reval and the pro-German party led by captain Marquard Breide (no reference provided; split between 2 foreign powers - what happened to indigenous \"party\"?). 80% of the Danish vassals in the Duchy of Estonia were Germans from Westphalia, 18% were Danes and 2% Estonians \n\nOn Saint George's Night (April 23) 1343, a signal was given by setting fire to a house on a hilltop for a coordinated attack on the foreigners in Harria. The plan was to \"kill all the Germans along with their wives and children. And so it happened, because they started to slay virgins, women, servants, maidservants, noblemen and commoners, young and old; all, who were of German blood, had to die.\" According to the \"Younger Livonian Rhymed Chronicle\", after renouncing Christianity, the rebel forces crisscrossed the whole province of Harria, burned down all the manors of the nobility and killed all the Germans who fell in their hands. Among others, they burned down the Cistercian Padise Abbey and massacred the 28 monks who had failed to escape. The chronicle adds that any German women or children who were spared by the men were killed by the women who then proceeded to burn down all the churches and the huts of the monks.\n\nAfter the initial success, Estonians elected four kings amongst themselves. The kings along with the rebel army proceeded to Danish-held Reval (Tallinn) and laid siege on the city with 10,000 men. In the first battle under Tallinn the Estonians were victorious over the knights. However, the leaders of the rebellion were worried that once the Germans and Danes recovered from the initial shock, the Estonian government might not be able to withstand the combined onslaught of their enemies. Therefore, they sent a delegation to the Swedish bailiffs of Åbo and Viborg and let them know that the Germans in Harria had been killed. They also told them that the Estonian army had laid siege on Reval, but they were willing to hand the Danish city over to the king of Sweden if the Swedes sent help. The bailiffs promised to raise an army and sail to Estonia.\n\nA few days later, the Estonians in the province of Rotalia (Lääne) renounced Christianity and killed all the Germans they could find. After the countryside was firmly in the Estonian hands, the rebel army laid siege on the city of Hapsal (Haapsalu), the capital of the Bishopric of Ösel-Wiek. According to the Renner version of the \"Younger Livonian Rhymed Chronicle\", 1800 Germans were killed in Läänemaa. According to the Wartberge and Russow versions, the number of 1800 or 2000 killed Germans refers to either Harria or Harria and Vironia combined.\n\nSoon after the massacre terrified survivors started to trickle to the castle of Weissenstein (Paide). The vogt of the castle immediately sent a letter to the master of the Livonian Order advising him on the situation. Burchard von Dreileben, the Livonian Master, sent one Brother to the Estonians \"who knew their language and whom they knew\" (possibly an ethnic Estonian member of the order) and asked them to send a delegation to Weissenstein to explain the reasons why they had renounced Christianity and killed all the Germans. He also promised to redress the past wrongs and establish good relations with the Estonians.\n\nEstonians sent their four kings to Weissenstein accompanied by three squires. Estonians also let the bishop of Reval pass through rebel-held territory to attend the negotiations. Among the many high-ranking members of the Livonian Order who came to Paide were the Livonian Master Burchard von Dreileben, the komturs of Fellin (Viljandi) and Riga, the vogt of Jervia (Järva), and many others. The large number of knights who arrived to the negotiations indicates that the true purpose of the meeting was to neutralize the Estonian kings and then to attack the leaderless rebel army. Even after truce had been declared, knights of the Order attacked a camp of 500 Estonians in Ravila.\n\nOn May 4, the two sides sat down for talks. The Livonian Master personally served as the spokesperson for the German side at the conference. The Estonian kings offered to become vassals to the Livonian Order, provided they would have no overlords over them. The master demanded to know why they had killed so many people, including the 28 monks of Padise. The answer he received was that any German deserved to be killed even if he were only two feet tall. The master of the order, Burchard von Dreileben, pronounced the answer outrageous, but declared that the four kings and their retinue were to remain unpunished and could keep their personal liberty; however, until the master has returned from the campaign against the Estonian army the kings were not to be allowed to leave the castle of Weissenstein. The four kings, who had been granted safe passage under the medieval code of honor, were outraged. They demanded to be released so that they could meet their fate with their army, but to no avail.\n\nWhen the Estonian delegation was escorted to their quarters they were suddenly attacked by their German hosts in the courtyard of the castle. In the ensuing fight the four kings and their squires were all hacked to death. The chronicle blames the incident on the envoys themselves, saying that one of them attempted to kill the vogt of Jervia (Järva) who had been assigned to attend to the Estonian envoys' needs. Some historians dismiss this explanation and say the negotiations were just a ruse to kill the leaders of the insurgency, and that the official version of the incident was a rather inept attempt to justify the murder of diplomatic envoys by the Teutonic knights.\n\nA large army led by the Master of the Order proceeded immediately towards Reval, seeking out and engaging smaller Estonian units on the way. A larger Estonian force that had been sent to block the knights' advance was intercepted by the German cavalry. In the ensuing Battle of Kanavere on 11 May 1343, Estonians made a tactical retreat into the Kanavere bog. Since the knights were not able to employ their heavy cavalry in the bog, they dismounted and continued to fight on foot. The bog was not very large and the numerically superior forces of the Order were able to completely surround it. The battle ended with a German victory. Estonian losses in the battle amounted to 1,600 men.\n\nAfter the battle of Kanavere, Burchard von Dreileben, the Master of the Order, wanted to avoid engaging the main force of the Estonian army, strategically camped next to a large bog, in yet another battle where the heavy cavalry of the Order would lose its tactical superiority. Therefore, he decided to use deceit and sent the vogts of Wenden (Cesis) and Treyden (Turaida) under the pretext of peace negotiations to the Estonians, apparently agreeing to the idea of vassalage without landlords. Estonians accepted the offer and the envoys returned to the German army. Von Dreileben, in the meantime, had two banners of cavalry locate between the swamp and the Estonian camp. After the envoys had delivered the acceptance of terms to the Order, the Master and the knights agreed that the killed Germans need to be avenged and the Estonians deserved no mercy. On 14 May 1343, the Germans attacked and Estonians began their retreat towards the bog. Because of the advance troops of the German cavalry, they were not able to complete this maneuver and in the battle that followed 3,000 Estonians were killed. According to the chronicle, individual Estonians who had pretended to be dead in their desperation tried to kill Germans even after the end of the battle. The location of the battle became known as Sõjamäe, or Warhill; it is now a subdistrict of Lasnamäe, Tallinn.\n\nThe Master of the Order and the magistrates of Tallinn learned from a captured German deserter that the Estonians had been promised military assistance from Sweden that had recently conquered several Danish territories in Scandinavia. Swedish forces were expected to arrive in Estonia in five days. The subjects of the Danish king in Tallinn, severely weakened after the carnage in Harju and Viru, and fearful of the Swedish intentions, submitted Tallinn and other Danish dominions in Estonia under the protection of the Order. After being promised compensation the Master of the Order agreed to provide Reval and Wesenberg (Rakvere) with German garrisons.\n\nThe bailiff of Viborg arrived with a large army on 18 May and the bailiff of Åbo a day later. After discovering the Danish stronghold in the hands of the Order and the Estonian army utterly defeated, the Swedes satisfied themselves with looting around Reval before sailing back to Finland.\n\nThe Estonians had also tried to find allies in Russia. Two envoys had been sent from Harria to Pskov to inform the Russians of the slaughter of the Germans in Harria and Vironia and the imminent demise of the Order. The envoys suggested that the Russians may want to loot the German dominions in southern Estonia. On 26 May 1343, the Bishopric of Dorpat (Tartu) suffered a belated intrusion by 5,000 Pskovians. However, since the rebellion in Estonia had already been largely crushed the Order was able to scramble enough troops and with some effort rout the marauding Russians, killing about 1,000 of them.\n\nIn the meantime, the Master had led the main force of the Order to Rotalia in order to break the siege of Hapsal. The Estonians retreated from the city without battle, again taking refuge in the bogs.\n\nSoon the Livonian Order received more troops from the Teutonic Order in Prussia. In the beginning of the winter the Master of the Livonian Order returned with these reinforcements to Harria and quelled the remaining resistance. The last Estonian strongholds in Harria to fall were Varbola and Loone (Lohu). In the wake of the bloody suppression of the rebellion, Harria was described as a \"barren and desolate land\".\n\nThe chronicler Bartholomäus Hoeneke also tells a story about Estonians plotting to get inside the castle of Fellin by hiding armed warriors in bags of grain. The plot failed when one mother tipped off the Order commander in exchange for the life of her son. This possibly apocryphal account has inspired several writers.\n\nAfter losing Reval and Wesenberg to the Livonian Order in 1343, the severely weakened Denmark also lost Narva in 1345. Thereupon king Valdemar IV in 1346 sold the Duchy of Estonia to the Teutonic knights for 19,000 silver marks (4 tons of silver). Another 6,000 marks was paid to the Margrave of Brandenburg. Another consequence of Saint George's Night Uprising was the disappearance of the remnants of pre-Christian Estonian nobility in North-Estonia.\n\nOn 24 July 1344, one day before St. Jacob's Day, Oeselians in \"Ösel\" (the islands of Saaremaa and Muhumaa) renounced Christianity, killed all the Germans, and drowned the priests in the sea. On the same day they assembled around the Castle of the Livonian Order in Pöide. The castle surrendered after an eight-day siege. The vogt of the castle along with his garrison of Livonian Knights, as well as all the other Germans in the castle, were promised free passage. Regardless, all the defenders of the castle were killed after they had come through the gates.\n\nSaaremaa and Muhumaa remained in Estonian hands until the winter. As soon as the sea between the islands and the continent was frozen, the Master of the Order with fresh reinforcements from Prussia crossed the sea and invaded Saaremaa. The German army looted and burned all the villages they came across and finally laid siege on Purtsa Fortress, one of the largest Estonian strongholds on the island. In the winter of 1344, one day before Shrove Tuesday, the knights penetrated the stronghold after tearing down one of the battlements. According to Wigand of Marburg, 2,000 people were killed in the fortress. Germans lost 500 killed. The Oeselian king Vesse was captured, tortured, and then executed. Nevertheless, Saaremaa remained free and staunchly anti-Christian as the German army was forced to cross back to the continent before the sea ice melted in the spring and the roads became impenetrable for the returning reinforcements from Prussia.\n\nIn the winter of 1345 the Christian army returned to Saaremaa where it laid waste to the northern districts by looting and burning for eight days. Eventually Oeselians asked for peace. The two sides reached an agreement and the army of the Livonian Order left Saaremaa after the Oeselians had reluctantly agreed to giving hostages and tearing down the fortress of Maasilinna Castle. The rebellion in Ösel had lasted for two years. With the conditional surrender of Ösel Saint George's Night Uprising was finally over.\n\nThe Saint George's Night Uprising has inspired several historical novels by Estonian writers, such as Eduard Bornhöhe's \"Tasuja\" (\"The Avenger\"). The Soviet Union tried to use the anniversary of the uprising in 1943 to pit Estonians against Germans.\n\nThe uprising is also a popular subject for debate among Estonian historians and writers. Some, like Edgar V. Saks and the writer Uku Masing have argued on the basis of contemporary documents that, contrary to claims in the chronicles, the uprising was not a fight against Christianity but only against the Livonian Order and that the crimes attributed to the insurgents were actually committed by the Order. Some see it as a continuation of the struggle between the Order and the Holy See. Others dismiss such claims as biased and unhistorical.\n"}
{"id": "1857057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857057", "title": "Miho", "text": "Miho\n\nMiho can be written using different kanji characters and can mean:\n\nThe name can also be written in hiragana \"みほ\" or katakana　“ミホ”.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1857059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857059", "title": "Uerdingen line", "text": "Uerdingen line\n\nThe Uerdingen Line (named after Uerdingen by Georg Wenker) is the isogloss within West Germanic languages that separates dialects which preserve the -\"k\" sound in the first person singular pronoun word \"ik\" (north of the line) from dialects in which the word final -\"k\" has changed to word final -\"ch\" in the word \"ich\" (IPA ) (south of the line). This sound shift is the one that progressed the farthest north among the consonant shifts that characterize High German and Middle German dialects. The line passes through Belgium, the Netherlands, and Germany.\n\nNorth of the line Low German and Dutch are spoken. South of the line Central German is spoken. In the area between the Uerdingen line and the Benrath line to its south, which includes parts of Belgium and the Netherlands, the Germanic dialect Limburgish is spoken. Especially in eastern Germany, the regional languages have been largely replaced by standard German since the 20th century.\n\nThe western end of the Uerdingen line is at Bierbeek, southwest of Leuven, Flemish Brabant, Belgium. From there, it runs in northeastern direction, north of Hasselt and Weert, Netherlands, from where it goes straight east. It passes south of Venlo to cross into Germany's Rhineland. It passes through Kempen and Krefeld-Hüls, and crosses the Rhine between Krefeld-Uerdingen and Duisburg-Mündelheim. From there, the isogloss passes south of Mülheim an der Ruhr-Saarn, and Essen-Kettwig, where it turns southeast. It continues past Wuppertal-Elberfeld, Gummersbach and Bergneustadt. Further east, it forms the border of the Sauerland (to its north) and the Siegerland (to its south). It passes north of Kassel, south of Magdeburg and north of Wittenberg. In southern Brandenburg in eastern Germany, the isogloss runs by Halbe, Hermsdorf, Freidorf and Staakow.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857062", "title": "SaskTel Centre", "text": "SaskTel Centre\n\nSaskTel Centre (formerly Credit Union Centre, and originally Saskatchewan Place; informally also known as \"Sask Place\") is an arena located in the Agriplace Industrial Park, Saskatoon, Saskatchewan, Canada. With 15,195 permanent stadium seats, & situated near the city's northern entrance, the facility opened in February 1988 with a seating capacity of around 7,800. It was expanded to 11,330 for the World Junior Hockey Championships in 1990. More additional permanent seating was added in 2008 and 2009. The current capacity is now 15,190 for hockey. \n\nIt is the home venue of the Saskatoon Blades of the Western Hockey League, the Saskatchewan Rattlers of the Canadian Elite Basketball League and the Saskatchewan Rush of the National Lacrosse League, with the arena being referred to as Co-op Field at SaskTel Centre during Rush games as per a separate sponsorship with Saskatoon Co-op.\n\nThe ashes of Saskatoon-born Detroit Red Wings player Gordie Howe, as well as those of his wife Colleen Howe, are buried at the base of a statue of Howe outside SaskTel Centre's main entrance.\n\nSaskPlace was constructed as a replacement for the Saskatoon Arena, a concrete building constructed in Saskatoon's downtown core in the 1930s, and which was in use until 1988, hosting its final hockey game only a week before SaskPlace opened. Nicknamed \"The Barn\", the facility had outlived its usefulness some 20 years earlier and had become infamous for leaky roofs and substandard amenities, yet Saskatonians were hesitant to lose the landmark and a number of years passed between the 1970s proposal to replace the structure and the eventual demolition of the Arena and the opening of SaskPlace.\n\nIn 1982, Bill Hunter, a local sports promoter, attempted to purchase the St. Louis Blues NHL team and bring it to Saskatoon. Part of his plan included building an 18,000-seat arena. Two locations were suggested: the site of a decommissioned power plant downtown, just west of the then-present Saskatoon Arena, and another site east of the city's airport in the North Industrial area. Despite Hunter's best efforts, the NHL rejected his offer and Hunter's plans to relocate an NHL team and build a new arena collapsed.\n\nThe site eventually chosen for the arena was initially, and still is, unpopular with some Saskatoon residents. Situated in the remote Agri Place industrial park at the north end of the city, accessible only via highways 11 and 16 and Marquis Drive, SaskPlace was accused of being too inconvenient for seniors and people of limited transportation to access, as opposed to the original downtown arena site which was close to most bus routes. The city's original plan was to relocate Saskatoon's exhibition grounds alongside SaskPlace as well, but this proposal was defeated in a civic plebiscite following public protest over access and safety concerns. At the time of construction, there were very few businesses and services located in the immediate area. As of 2016, the surrounding area has expanded, but the lack of fan amenities that most would find in other cities, such as nearby bars and restaurants, remains. A Motel 6 was the first hotel to be built near the arena, in 2004. A second hotel was constructed in the early 2010s.\n\nPlans to build interchanges on the two major access routes into the facility were announced soon after the arena opened. However, these plans never developed, with the city and province instead opting to install a set of traffic lights at Marquis Drive and Highway 16 only 27 years after the arena's opening. Near-sighted planning on behalf of the city at the time of construction has led to traffic severely backing up after large-scale events in recent years.\n\nIn the early 2000s, Saunders Avenue, a street leading into the parking lot of Credit Union Centre, was renamed Bill Hunter Avenue in honour of Bill Hunter, who died in 2002. This was considered ironic by many Saskatonians, given Hunter lobbied for the facility to be built in another location near the old Saskatoon Arena. The city then transferred the 'Saunders' name to a new street in the River Landing redevelopment area—running through the former site of the Saskatoon Arena.\n\nIn 2008–2009, the arena was renovated for the 2010 World Junior Ice Hockey Championships. There were 2,981 seats added to the upper deck at the west end of the arena increasing the capacity of the arena to more than 15,000. The cost of the expansion was pegged at $6.7 million. $2 million was requested as a loan from the city of Saskatoon and $3 million from a provincial grant. Hockey Canada may have also contributed about $500,000. The expansion also includes extra washrooms and concessions. The expansion also included the addition of 14 more corporate box seats, bringing the total to 44 and enlarged and improved player facilities such as dressing rooms, weight rooms, coach`s room, equipment room, player`s lounge and medical room.\n\nAt about this time, there was a proposal from Ice Edge Holdings to purchase the Phoenix Coyotes and begin playing five of the Coyotes' home games each season at Credit Union Centre beginning in December 2009. The logic behind the move, which parallels the Bills Toronto Series in the NFL, was that although Saskatoon was likely too small to support an NHL team of its own, it would easily be able to sell out the Credit Union Centre for one game each month. By May 2011, Ice Edge Holdings had abandoned its plan to purchase the team. Although some members of the Ice Edge group subsequently joined IceArizona, the group that ultimately was successful in purchasing the team, IceArizona did not pursue the earlier proposal to play any home games outside Arizona.\n\nThe arena hosted an NHL exhibition game in 2011 when the Edmonton Oilers hosted one of their games there. In 2012, the Winnipeg Jets were scheduled to play an exhibition game, but this was cancelled due to the NHL lockout. They made up for the missed date on September 27, 2013 vs the Boston Bruins. The Ottawa Senators and Calgary Flames played on September 16, 2013.\n\nIn August 2014, SaskTel acquired the naming rights to the arena, renaming it SaskTel Centre.\n\nA 2018 study recommended the construction of a new arena and convention centre in the downtown area to replace SaskTel Centre and TCU Place. Both venues were cited as \"quickly approaching their end-of-useful life\" and not meeting standards in comparison to venues in equivalent markets, specifically citing the arena's \"inadequate space and capacity for large event staging and rigging\", and poor location and accessibility.\n\nThe arena's inaugural event was the Saskatoon Blades' first WHL game at the arena, defeating the Brandon Wheat Kings 4–3. Grant Tkachuk scored the first goal in the arena's history.\n\nThe Saskatoon Blades have hosted the Memorial Cup twice at SaskTel Centre, first in 1989 (where they lost in the Final to the Swift Current Broncos), and again in 2013. As of 2016, they remain the Blades' only two appearances in the Memorial Cup.\n\nDuring a World Wrestling Federation taping at the arena on October 12, 1992 for a Coliseum Video release, Bret Hart of Calgary (whose father, Stu, was a Saskatoon native) defeated Ric Flair to win his first WWF World Heavyweight Championship. In a match taped for \"Superstars\", Calgary's Bill Jordan was squashed by the debuting Yokozuna, who dethroned Hart the following April at WrestleMania IX. \n\nIn February 2019, it was announced that SaskTel Centre would host the 2021 Canadian Olympic Curling Trials, ahead of the 2022 Winter Olympics.\n\nIn 2005, the arena hosted a gala command performance for Queen Elizabeth II and Prince Philip, hosted by Brent Butt, as part of a royal visit to Saskatchewan commemorating the province's centennial.\n\nIn 2007, the arena hosted the 2007 Juno Awards. The Juno Awards were to return to SaskTel Centre in 2020, but the ceremony was cancelled on March 12 due to concerns surrounding the coronavirus pandemic.\n\nIn October 2014, the arena hosted a show by Demi Lovato of her Demi World Tour.\n\nFrom June 9–12, 2016, SaskTel Centre hosted six sold-out performances by Garth Brooks and Trisha Yearwood as part of their World Tour. The shows broke a record for concert attendance at the arena (set by Brooks in 1996), with the first featuring 15,458 attendees alone. The six shows had an estimated total of 94,655 attendees. \n\nThe single-concert record would be exceeded by Metallica's WorldWired Tour stop at SaskTel Centre in September 2018, attracting 16,874 attendees in one of only two Canadian stops on the tour. The band dedicated their performance of \"Nothing Else Matters\" to those who had died in the Humboldt Broncos bus crash.\n\nIn October 2019, SaskTel Centre hosted a two-night stop on Elton John's Farewell Yellow Brick Road tour.\n\nThe arena was announced as a stop on the North American leg of Celine Dion's Courage World Tour, but was postponed due to the coronavirus pandemic.\n\n\nA bronze statue of former Detroit Red Wings player and Saskatoon native Gordie Howe has been located outside the arena since 2005. The statue was created by Michael Martin but remained in Eston, Saskatchewan until 1993, when private donations were used to fund its completion. As city property, Saskatoon's city council rejected a proposal to place the statue outside the arena, as they felt it had no artistic value or \"enduring quality.\" The statue, however, would be purchased by the owners of Midtown Plaza, and installed on a street corner near the mall. The placement was criticized by a \"Saskatoon Star-Phoenix\" columnist, who felt (as per a survey the paper conducted, and an opinion from Howe himself) that the arena would be a more appropriate location for the statue. In 2005, the Gordie Howe statue was moved outside the arena's main entrance.\n\nFollowing Howe's death in June 2016, the statue transformed into a memorial site for the player. In September 2016, the cremated ashes of both him and his wife Colleen Howe were both buried at the base of the statue.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857063", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857063", "title": "Tennessee State Capitol", "text": "Tennessee State Capitol\n\nThe Tennessee State Capitol, located in Nashville, Tennessee, is the seat of government for the U.S. state of Tennessee, serving as home of the Tennessee General Assembly and the location of the governor's office. Designed by architect William Strickland (1788–1854) of Philadelphia and Nashville, it was built between 1845 and 1859 and is one of Nashville's most prominent examples of Greek Revival architecture. The building, one of 12 state capitols that does not have a dome, was added to the National Register of Historic Places in 1970 and named a National Historic Landmark in 1971.\n\nThe prominent Nashville hilltop site of what is now the Tennessee State Capitol was formerly occupied by the Holy Rosary Cathedral (no longer extant), the first Roman Catholic cathedral church in Nashville (with the Diocese of Nashville at that time once comprising the entire territory of the State of Tennessee).\n\nThe State Capitol was designed by renowned Philadelphia architect William Strickland, who modeled it after a Greek Ionic temple. The prominent lantern structure located above the roof line of the Tennessee state capitol is a design based upon the Choragic Monument of Lysicrates in Athens that honors the Greek god Dionysus doing battle with Tyrrhenian pirates. The cornerstone of the Tennessee state capitol was itself laid on July 4, 1845 and the building was completed fourteen years later in 1859.\nThe American Society of Civil Engineers has listed the building as a civil engineering landmark in recognition of its innovative construction, which made unusually extensive use of stone and was an early example of the use of structural iron. Both the interior and exterior are built with limestone from a quarry about from the site. Some interior columns were built from single pieces of stone, requiring massive wooden derricks to hoist them into place. Wrought iron, instead of wood, was used for the roof trusses to reduce the building's vulnerability to fire.\n\nCommercial, convict, and slave labor were used in the project. Fifteen enslaved Black men worked on carving the Capitol's limestone cellar from 1845 to 1847; Nashville stonemason A.G. Payne was paid $18 a month for their labor. It is believed to be \"the most significant project where the [Tennessee] state government rented slave labor.\"\n\nStrickland died five years before the building's completion and was entombed in its northeast wall. His son, F. W. Strickland, supervised completion of the structure. William Strickland also designed the St. Mary's Cathedral (located along the base of the capitol hill), as well as Downtown Presbyterian church located just a few blocks away from the state capitol.\n\nSamuel Dold Morgan (1798–1880), chairman of the State Building Commission overseeing the construction of the Tennessee State Capitol, is entombed in the southeast corner near the south entrance.\n\nMonuments on the Capitol grounds include statues of two of the three Tennessee residents who served as President of the United States: Andrew Jackson by Clark Mills and Andrew Johnson by Jim Gray. The second President from Tennessee, James K. Polk, is buried in a tomb on the grounds, together with his wife, Sarah Childress Polk. Other monuments on the grounds include the Sgt. Alvin C. York Memorial by Felix de Weldon, the Tennessee Holocaust Commission Memorial, the Sam Davis Memorial at the southwest corner of the Capitol grounds, the Sen. Edward Ward Carmack Memorial located above the Motlow Tunnel near the south entrance, and the Memorial to Africans during the Middle Passage at the southwest corner of Capitol grounds. The Charles Warterfield Reliquary is a group of broken limestone columns and fragments removed and saved from the State Capitol during the mid-1950s restoration, located near the northern belvedere on Capitol Drive.\n\nThe building has housed a bust of Nathan Bedford Forrest thanks to Democratic state senator Douglas Henry since 1978. The presence of the bust has been controversial since its dedication. Legislation was proposed in 2017 towards moving it to the Tennessee State Museum.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1857064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857064", "title": "Party of Regions", "text": "Party of Regions\n\nThe Party of Regions (, ; ) is a pro-Russia political party of Ukraine created in late 1997 that then grew to be the biggest party of Ukraine between 2006 and 2014. Since the February 2014 Ukrainian revolution, the party has not competed in elections and most of its representatives have left the party to continue their careers in other parties (the last election the party participated in was the 2012 Ukrainian parliamentary election). The best known former party members are former Prime Minister Mykola Azarov and former President of Ukraine Viktor Yanukovych; both fled to Russia in February 2014.\n\nThe party was created on 26 October 1997, just prior to the 1998 Ukrainian parliamentary elections, under the name of Party of Regional Revival of Ukraine and led by Volodymyr Rybak. Throughout its existence the party has contained different political groups with diverging ideological outlooks.\n\nThe party was reorganized later in 2001 when it united with several others. According to the party's leadership in 2002, from the creation of the party to the end of 2001 the number of members jumped from 30,000 to 500,000. The party claims to ideologically defend and uphold the rights of ethnic Russians and speakers of the Russian language in Ukraine. It originally supported president Leonid Kuchma and joined the pro-government For United Ukraine alliance during the parliamentary elections on 30 March 2002.\n\nIts electoral and financial base has always been located primarily in the east and south-east of Ukraine, where it got wide popular electoral support. In the eastern Ukrainian Donetsk Oblast the party claimed in 2010 to have over 700,000 members. The party was supported mostly by people older than 45 years.\n\nIn 2010, the party candidate Viktor Yanukovych won the presidential elections.\n\nThe party won 185 seats in the Ukrainian parliament in the 2012 Ukrainian parliamentary election. On 12 December 2012 it formed a parliamentary faction of 210 deputies.\n\nFrom November 2013 until February 2014 Ukraine was gripped by a series of anti-government demonstrations, known as Euromaidan. Goals of Euromaidan were the impeachment of President Yanukovych and snap elections. Following the 2014 Ukrainian revolution and the fleeing of President Yanukovych to Russia, on 23 February 2014 the Party of Regions condemned and disassociated itself from Yanukovych for corruption, \"criminal orders\", his escape, and \"cowardice\". The following months more than 120 MPs left the party's parliamentary faction. The Ukrainian press claims that meanwhile several party members called for the disintegration of Ukraine and a union with the Russian Federation. They claim that Oleksandr Yefremov, leader of the Ukrainian parliamentary faction was in full support of these proposed actions, and Vladimir Konstantinov, chairman of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea went to Luhansk to support these actions.\n\nThe party did not participate in the 2014 parliamentary elections. In the following months, the majority of its representatives continued their political careers predominantly with Opposition Bloc, Revival or Our Land.\n\nFollowing the 2014 annexation of Crimea by Russia members of Party of Regions in Crimea joined United Russia. Although officially the Party of Regions Crimean branch was not transformed into the United Russia Crimean branch, local journalists claim that de-facto it was.\n\nThe founding congress of the Party of Regional Revival of Ukraine was held on 26 October 1997 in Kiev. The first leader of the party was the mayor of Donetsk, Volodymyr Rybak. On 6 November 1997, the Party of Regional Revival of Ukraine was registered at the Ukrainian Ministry of Justice. On 27 November 1997 there took place the 1st Party Congress, which adopted the electoral party list and platform for the next elections. Already on 13 January 1998 a parliamentary faction was created in the parliament of Ukraine, the Party of Regional Revival of Ukraine (head of coordination council – Gennadiy Samofalov).\n\nDuring the 1998 parliamentary elections the Party of Regional Revival of Ukraine won 0.90% of the votes. A single party representative was elected to the Ukrainian Parliament by winning one constituency at the regular elections. The party was among the top 10 in Chernivtsi and Donetsk Oblasts. Volodymyr Rybak was the winner of constituency number 45 in Donetsk Oblast.\n\nDuring the 2nd Party Congress that took place in two stages during the spring of 1999 it was decided to support the presidential candidate Leonid Kuchma for the next presidential elections. It was recommended that the candidate include in his election campaign propositions of the Party of Regional Revival of Ukraine, including one on granting the Russian language official status. In the summer of 1999, the party entered the electoral bloc \"Our choice – Leonid Kuchma\", consisting of 23 parties and led by Yevhen Kushnaryov, who endorsed incumbent President Leonid Kuchma in the presidential election of 1999.\n\nOn 17 November 2000, the 3rd Extraordinary Party Congress adopted the merger of five political parties, For Beautiful Ukraine (Leonid Chernovetsky), All-Ukrainian Party of Pensioners (A. Kapusta), Party of Labor (Valentyn Landyk), Party of Solidarity of Ukraine (Petro Poroshenko), and Party of Regional Revival of Ukraine (Volodymyr Rybak), into a new one under the name of Party of Regional Revival \"Labor Solidarity of Ukraine\". The co-leaders of the new political polity became Valentyn Landyk, Petro Poroshenko, and Volodymyr Rybak. Also, prior to the merger the Party of Solidarity of Ukraine was completely abandoned by its base party of Serhiy Dovhan, the Peasant Party of Ukraine, which dissolved its union with Solidarity. On February 21, 2001, the Ministry of Justice registered the newly established Party of Regional Revival \"Labour Solidarity of Ukraine\".\n\nOn March 3, 2001, at the 3rd Party Congress, the party changed its name to Party of Regions. At the congress Mykola Azarov, who at that time was chairman of the State Tax Administration of Ukraine, was elected the party leader, but soon resigned in December 2001, being replaced by his deputy and at that time Vice Prime Minister Volodymyr Semynozhenko. In an interview with the newspaper \"Den\" () on 6 March 2001, Azarov said that he agreed to become the chairman for a brief period \"until the party nominated a leader who will claim the office of the President of Ukraine in 2004\". In December 2001 the Party of Regions member Ihor Yushchko was appointed Minister of Finance of Ukraine. On 21 March 2001, the Ministry of Justice re-registered the party under the number 939 with the older date of registration.\n\nOn 23 May 2001, the party signed an agreement of partnership and cooperation with the party Labour Ukraine (Serhiy Tihipko), and on 7 June 2001, with the Agrarian Party of Ukraine.\n\nRegions of Ukraine was the parliamentary wing of the Party of Regions; it was created at the end of March 2001 after several deputies defected from their original faction. Critics claimed the deputies were \"lured away\" from those other factions by pressure and analysts claimed most of them had nothing to do with the new party. Nine out of seventeen members of the faction had their political and business roots in the Donetsk region. In July 2002 the party had a faction of 24 people (one deputy left the faction later).\n\nOn 20 March 2001, Solidarity announced it would \"be as a single bloc\". (Eventually the (Solidarity) party became part of the Viktor Yushchenko Bloc Our Ukraine during the 2002 parliamentary elections.)\n\nDuring the Ukrainian parliamentary election the party was a member of the For United Ukraine electoral bloc. It was then led by Volodymyr Semynozhenko.\n\nFrom 21 November 2002 until 7 December 2004, Viktor Yanukovych was Prime Minister of Ukraine.\n\nAt a congress held on 19 April 2003 Viktor Yanukovych was elected party leader, succeeding Volodymyr Semynozhenko. At that time the party had 20 seats in parliament.\n\nThe party shifted its political ideology to the left and became much more populist in nature before the 2004 Ukrainian presidential election and, as a result, Yanukovych won over a large part of the Communist party's electorate in eastern Ukraine. The party announced support for making Russian a second official language in Ukraine, a pro-Russian foreign policy, and increased social spending. It also advocates the regionalist ideology, and many members support making Ukraine a federation.\n\nThe Party of Regions moved to opposition after its candidate, Viktor Yanukovych, lost the 2004 presidential election. The party leader first claimed an electoral victory, but strong allegations of electoral fraud triggered a series of events commonly known as the Orange Revolution. In the re-run of the presidential election ordered by the country's Supreme Court, Viktor Yanukovych lost the election to Viktor Yushchenko.\n\nThe Party claimed to be a victim of a political persecution campaign organised by the new government, also because Borys Kolesnykov, the head of the regional party branch and of the Donetsk regional council, was arrested in April 2005 and charged with criminal extortion. The Party of Regions claimed this was an act of political repression, while the authorities believed that Kolesnykov had links to organised crime and his arrest was a purely criminal matter. The Council of Europe called the investigation \"in full compliance with European standards\". Kolesnykov has since been cleared of charges and released from pre-trial detention.\n\nThe party signed a collaboration agreement in 2005 with Russia's \"United Russia\".\n\nAmerican consultant Paul J. Manafort has advised the party and Yanukovych since 2005. \n\nAt the parliamentary elections on 26 March 2006, the party gained 32.14% of votes and 186 (out of 450) seats in the Verkhovna Rada (the Ukrainian Parliament), forming the largest parliamentary group. On 6 July 2006, the Socialist Party of Ukraine abandoned the \"Orange Coalition\" between Our Ukraine and the Yulia Tymoshenko Bloc following the failure of each bloc to reach agreement on the formation of a governing coalition.\n\nOn 10 July 2006 a new parliamentary majority titled the \"anti-crisis coalition\", led by the Party of Regions and including the Socialist Party and the Communist Party, was formed, nominating Viktor Yanukovych to the post of prime minister.\n\nThe coalition remained in office until the special parliamentary elections held in September 2007.\n\nAt the 2006 Crimean parliamentary election the party was part of the \"For Yanukovych!\" election bloc.\n\nOn 19 January 2007, Yevhen Kushnaryov, a member of the Party of Regions, died in Izium as a result of an accidental gunshot wound received while hunting.\n\nIn mid-2007, the Ukrainian Republican Party and Labour Ukraine merged into the Party of Regions.\n\nAt the parliamentary elections held on 30 September 2007, the party won 175 seats (losing 11 seats) out of 450 seats with 34.37% of the total national vote. The party received the highest number of votes, with a swing of +2.23% in comparison to the 2006 vote.\n\nFollowing the formation of a governing coalition between Our Ukraine and the Yulia Tymoshenko Bloc and the election of Yulia Tymoshenko as prime minister on 18 December 2007, the Party of Regions formed the parliamentary opposition.\n\nOn 13 March 2009, Victor Yanukovych stated the Party of Regions was ready to unite into a coalition with its archrivals the Yulia Tymoshenko Bloc (BYuT). He noted that: \"We are ready to unite, but only on the base of the program on struggle with crisis\". The previous day the deputy leader of the Bloc of Yulia Tymoshenko faction, Andriy Portnov, said that the union of his political force with the Party of Regions was highly improbable, but that the union of the BYuT and the Party of Regions could be possible after the next Ukrainian presidential elections. Prime Minister Yulia Tymoshenko stated on 17 March 2009 that her bloc was ready to join efforts with the Regions Party to pass certain bills in the Ukrainian parliament (Verkhovna Rada). \"You are a representative of the Regions Party, [and] I represent the BYuT. It's time to join efforts for the benefit of the country,\" Tymoshenko said. On 30 March 2009 Victor Yanukovych stated he did not believe in the possibility of forming a coalition with the Yulia Tymoshenko Bloc in the current parliament. At the same time he added that \"it would be necessary to agree on main issues\" concerning amendments to the Constitution of Ukraine involving local self-government reform, judicial reform and clear division of authority among President, government and parliament. According to Yanukovych, talks with the BYuT were still ongoing in late May 2008.\n\nIn early June talks to build a national unity government to address the economic crisis collapsed, and Yulia Tymoshenko accused Yanukovych of betrayal: \"He unilaterally, without warning anyone, quit the negotiation process, making a loud political statement, killing the merger and the chances for Ukraine\".\n\nIn September 2009 Member of Parliament Vasyl Kiselev was expelled from the party and the political council of the Party of Regions. Kiselev was expelled \"for violation of provisions and demands of the charter of the Party of Regions and harming the reputation of the party\".\n\nIn September 2009 Mykola Azarov announced the creation of the Anti-Fascist Forum of Ukraine, the chairmen of which were the member of parliament Dmytro Shentsev (Kharkiv) and the head of the Luhansk Region State Administration, Valeriy Holenko.\n\nThe Party of Regions endorsed Viktor Yanukovych as their candidate for the 2010 presidential election. The party intended to create a new coalition in the Verkhovna Rada and form a new government if Yanukovych won the 2010 presidential elections. Yanukovych was elected President of Ukraine on 7 February 2010. On 19 February the Ukrainian parliament terminated the powers of Ukrainian Member of Parliament (MP) Yanukovych, in his place #179 on the electoral list of the Party of Regions at the 2007 early parliamentary elections. Tamara Yehorenko was registered as an MP by the Central Election Commission of Ukraine on 26 February. On 3 March Ukrainian President Yanukovych suspended his membership in the Party (Yanukovych was barred by the Constitution from heading a political party) and handed over leadership in the party and in the parliamentary faction to Mykola Azarov. Nine days later Azarov handed it to Oleksandr Yefremov. On 11 March 2010, together with Bloc Lytvyn and Communist Party of Ukraine, the party joined the first Azarov Government.\n\nThe party elected a new Chairman at its 12th congress on 23 April 2010. Prime Minister Mykola Azarov was elected.\n\nSeven extra deputies (four Bloc Yulia Tymoshenko (BYuT) members) joined the Party of Regions faction in October 2010. In March 2011 five more former BYuT deputies joined the faction. By late November 2012 the Party of Regions faction consisted of 195 lawmakers (20 more than the 175 elected in September 2007).\n\nDuring the 2010 Ukrainian local elections the party won majorities on most regional and city councils as well as most of the mayoralties (except in Western Ukraine), and in the 2010 Crimean parliamentary election (where it won over 70% of the seats). It was the only party that won representatives in all Ukrainian oblasts where elections were held, and it won the most votes in all but four of those oblasts (the four oblasts where it did not were situated in Western Ukraine). In Crimea, particularly in 2010–2014, the Party of Regions was nicknamed \"Makedonians\" because the Crimean Prime Ministers Vasyl Dzharty and Anatolii Mohyliov were associated with the \"Makiivka-Donetsk clan.\"\n\nIn September 2010, the party was planning to sign a memorandum on cooperation with China's Communist Party.\nOn 14 October 2010, the Party of Regions formed a co-operative arrangement with the Socialists and Democrats European parliamentary group.\n\nPresident Yanukovych and the Party of Regions have been accused of trying to create a \"controlled democracy\" in Ukraine and as a means to this of trying to \"destroy\" the main opposition party BYuT, but both have denied these charges.\n\nIn August 2011 Strong Ukraine and People's Party announced that both parties aimed to merge with the Party of Regions. The merger between People's Party and Party of Regions did not materialise. Strong Ukraine and Party of Regions merged on 17 March 2012. (Former) Strong Ukraine leader Serhiy Tyhypko was unanimously elected Party of Regions deputy chairman and member of the Party of Regions political council the same day. Party of Regions parliamentarian Olena Bondarenko had stated (early March 2012) that Party of Regions, Strong Ukraine party and \"another party\" planned to hold a unity congress on 17 March 2012. No additional third party merged with the Party of Regions on 17 March 2012; according to Ukrainian media Tyhypko had personally prevented a merger of United Centre with the Party of Regions in March 2012.\n\nIn October 2011 a cooperation agreement was signed in Astana between the Kazakhstani Nur Otan and the Party of Regions.\n\nIn late 2011, the party's popularity dropped in opinion polls below 20%, mainly because the party was losing votes to the Communist Party of Ukraine.\n\nIn April 2012, the top PR consultancy Burson-Marsteller was hired to represent the interests of the Party of Regions, \"to help them communicate its activities as the governing party of Ukraine, as well as to help it explain better its position on the Yulia Tymoshenko case\", as explained by Robert Mack, a senior manager at Burson-Marsteller.\n\nIn the October 2012 parliamentary elections the party won 72 seats and 30% of the votes under party-list proportional representation (falling from 34% in 2007 and 32% in 2006) and another 115 by winning 115 simple-majority constituencies (it had competed in 204 of the 225 constituencies); this sum gave them a total of 187 seats and 41,56% of the 450 seats in the Ukrainian Parliament. The party had lost about 2 million voters compared with the previous election. On 12 December 2012 the party formed a parliamentary faction of 210 deputies. On 31 December 2013 this faction was 204 votes strong.\n\nAt least 18 Party of Regions deputies have criminal ties, according to Hennadiy Moskal, deputy head of Parliament's Committee on Organized Crime and Corruption.\n\nIn June 2013, 148 people's deputies of Ukraine signed a letter to the Polish Sejm asking to recognize the Volhynian tragedy as a genocide (). A total of 119 of those parliamentarians were members of Party of Regions, while other 23 were from the Communist Party of Ukraine.\n\nFrom November 2013 until February 2014 Ukraine was gripped by a series of anti-government demonstrations, known as Euromaidan. Goals of Euromaidan were the impeachment of President Yanukovych and snap elections. Late January 2014 the party's symbol and activities were banned in the Chernivtsi, Ternopil and Ivano-Frankivsk regions. Although there was no legal basis for these bans since in Ukraine only a court can ban the activities of a political force. The Party of Regions faction in Zhytomyr announced its dissolution on 19 February 2014, in connection with the crisis of the preceding three months.\n\nOn 22 February 2014, during the 2014 Ukrainian revolution, the Ukrainian parliament voted to impeach the honorary chairman of the party, Viktor Yanukovych, as President of Ukraine. Out of the 38 PoR deputies present, 36 voted in favor of ousting Yanukovych, while two did not take part in the vote. Simultaneously both Yanukovych and former Prime Minister Mykola Azarov fled to Russia. In a written statement the next day, the party denounced Yanukovych, stating they \"strongly condemn the criminal orders that led to human victims, an empty state treasury, huge debts, shame before the eyes of the Ukrainian people and the entire world.\" On 24 February 2014 faction leader Oleksandr Yefremov declared that the party was moving into the opposition. 77 of its MPs had left the faction over the past few days. On 25 February 2014 Anatoliy Kinakh and 32 other mostly former PoR deputies created the parliamentary faction Economic Development.\n\nOn 28 March 2014 Yanukovych asked the Party of Regions to exclude him. The next day, at a party congress, the party nominated Mykhailo Dobkin as its presidential candidate for the 2014 Ukrainian presidential election. The congress expelled from the party Yanukovych, Azarov, former First Deputy Prime Minister Serhiy Arbuzov, ex-chairman of the Ministry of Revenue and Duties Olexander Klimenko, former Energy Minister Eduard Stavitskyi, ex-governor of the Donetsk region Andrew Shishatskiy and Valery Konovalyuk.\n\nOn 7 April 2014 the political council of the party expelled Sergiy Tigipko, Oleh Tsariov and Yuriy Boiko from the party.\n\nMykhailo Dobkin was the PoR's candidate in the snap presidential election of 25 May 2014, tallying only 3 percent of the vote.\n\nOn 3 June 2014 again twenty Party of Regions deputies left the party's parliamentary faction. Thus the faction's strength was reduced from (at its highest point on 12 December 2012) 210 deputies to 80 deputies on 6 June 2014. A by-product of this was that it became the second biggest faction in parliament, after the faction of Batkivshchyna with 85 members. On 2 July 2014 the 32 member strong new parliamentary faction For Peace and Stability, composed mostly of former Party of Regions MPs, was formed. The following months many (former) members of the Party of Regions became objects of the so called \"trash bucket challenge\" (Ukraine officials dumped in trash containers and the likes).\n\nOn September 17, 2014, amidst the ongoing war in Donbass, a group of 24 people's deputies of Ukraine from the Party of Regions and the Communist Party of Ukraine, who are members of the Ukrainian parliamentary group For Peace and Stability, met with Sergei Naryshkin, the chairman of the Russian State Duma. On September 25, 2014, the Central Investigation Administration of the Ukrainian Ministry of Internal Affairs opened a criminal case against those deputies charging them with infringement on the territorial integrity of Ukraine.\n\nThe Ukrainian press claims that during the days around the February 2014 Ukrainian revolution several party members called for the disintegration of Ukraine and a union with the Russian Federation. They claim that Oleksandr Yefremov, leader of the Ukrainian parliamentary faction was in full support of these proposed actions, and Vladimir Konstantinov, chairman of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea went to Luhansk to support these actions.\n\nOn 14 September 2014 Party of Regions chose not to participate in the 2014 parliamentary elections; the party deemed the election as lacking legitimacy because the residents of the Donbass could not vote in the election. Many individual members of Party of Regions ended up as candidates of Opposition Bloc. Party of Regions has not participated in elections since the 2012 Ukrainian parliamentary election.\n\nBy the summer of 2015 most representatives of the party in 2014 were members of Opposition Bloc, Revival or Our Land. Others continued their political careers in other parties (mostly Petro Poroshenko Bloc); according to Ukrainian media research of February 2016 22% of the Petro Poroshenko Bloc representatives in regional councils and 12% of this party parliamentary deputies were former members of the Party of Regions.\n\nFollowing the 2014 annexation of Crimea by Russia and after Vladimir Konstantinov announced of reorganization of the Party of Regions Crimean branch, members of Party of Regions joined the United Russia. Officially according to the TASS news agency and the former leader of the Crimean Party of Region Konstantinov, there is no succession of the United Russia Crimean branch from the Party of Regions Crimean branch, but, according to several local news resources from Sevastopol, in reality it was organized from former activists of Party of Regions and Russian Unity.\n\nIn 2012 Taras Kuzio claimed the electorate of the party was very loyal to them. According to a poll by the Kyiv International Sociology Institute, the number of voters ready to go to polling stations to vote for the Party of Regions dropped from 38% in June 2010 to 13.9% in April 2011.\n\nThe party asserts it has a pragmatic approach to Ukrainian EU membership with respect to the country's foreign economic interests; it supports \"to walk the path of European integration and the implementation of respective standards in the social and economic spheres\". Yet, given the European financial crisis, the party sees the issue of Ukraine's accession to the EU as \"purely theoretical.\"\n\nThe party accepts Ukrainian as the only state language in Ukraine, but also claims to promote \"both the development of the state Ukrainian language and languages of other nationalities residing on the territory of Ukraine\".\n\nThe Party of Regions supports the cancellation of a number of benefits for deputies of the Ukrainian parliament. Leading party members have stated the party \"would mercilessly expel corrupt officials from its ranks\".\n\nIn November 2013 Party of Regions MP Oleh Tsariov demanded a criminal investigation into the activities of United States Department of State lead TechCamp in Ukraine because he believed it was engaged in \"preparations for inciting a civil war\" because during training \"instructors share their experience of Internet technologies, which are aimed at shaping public opinion and enhancing the protest potential and which were used to organize street protests in Libya, Egypt, Tunisia and Syria\".\n\nThe Party of Regions has lost much of its influence amid the ongoing crisis in Ukraine. 72 deputies have left the party, and remaining deputies either supported key opposition demands like impeaching Yanukovich, firing Zakharchenko and the General Prosecutor or did not vote.\n\nOn 23 February, the party faction of Verkhovna Rada published a statement blaming everything wrong on ″Yanukovych and his inner circle″, accusing him in particular of giving out ″criminal orders″ and lamenting that the whole party had been ″in effect hostage of one corrupt Family″.\n\nOn 7 April 2014 the party presented its new economic doctrine that consisted of minimal taxes and fees, maximum investor protection, increasing investment attractiveness, as well as deregulation and simplification of licensing procedures, the establishment of a transparent tax system and tax cuts (a reduction of income tax to 12.5%, reducing the income tax rate to 14%), decreasing the inspections of small and medium-sized businesses to not more than once in 5 years, maintaining a 15-year preferential tax system in agriculture, the introduction of effective direct subsidies to farmers to compete on the world market, a compensation of 50% of new fixed assets in crop and livestock in creation of new industries.\n\nOn the question of European integration, different views exist within the party. On the one hand, President Viktor Yanukovych, who is a member of the party, has repeatedly underlined his pro-European stances. On the other hand, experts have described the Party of Regions as eurosceptic. The Party's official stance is for increased European integration, but within a framework that is favorable to Ukraine.\n\nThe party supports affordable housing through state mortgages with a 3% annual percentage rate, social contracts with employers, financial aid for newborns (to be doubled in 2017), perinatal centers in each region and the upgrading of maternity homes.\n\nThe party supports at least 75-percent placement in higher-educational institutions, a minimum-wage student stipend, a minimum 20-percent annual raise in educator salaries and universal Internet access. In labor, the party supports fully subsidizing employers of the disabled, orphans, single mothers and workers over age 50; training the unemployed for occupations with labor shortages; providing internships to students; giving young professionals their first job, and a median salary of ₴8,000 by 2017.\n\nThe party supports a median salary of ₴8,000 for physicians and ₴5,500 for other medical personnel, reducing basic-medicine prices by 30 percent, providing access to medicines to patients with cancer, heart disease, tuberculosis and HIV/AIDS, mobile medical facilities in all rural areas, treatment and rehabilitation for people with limited physical abilities and new pools, stadiums, ice arenas and sports fields in all regions.\n\nThe party supports comfortable, affordable housing; security for senior citizens; the repayment of all deposits in the Sberbank of the USSR up to ₴5,000 by 2017; a minimum pension 20 percent over the poverty threshold, and significant pension increases for military and law-enforcement personnel. In the environmental sector, the party supports the completion of the Shelter Project for the Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant by 2015, the installation of 20,000 centralized water-purification systems and recycling plants in each region.\n\n\nEffective nation: responsible government and open society\n\n\nThe Party of Regions publishes a nationwide newspaper called \"Время Регионов\" (English trans. \"Time of the Regions\"). The newspaper is based and published in Kiev. It is released weekly, every Thursday, in Ukrainian and Russian. The newspaper was launched on 24 August 2008. It is available online in PDF format.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1857066", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857066", "title": "NASDAQ Canada", "text": "NASDAQ Canada\n\nNASDAQ Canada is a wholly owned subsidiary of the NASDAQ Stock Market Inc. and was created to extend Nasdaq's North American trading platform in Canada. Nasdaq Canada exists to enhance and ensure Canadian investors immediate trading access (including real time availability of all relevant data) of all Nasdaq securities and issuers with the ability to raise capital more efficiently. Nasdaq Canada is regulated jointly by the NASDR and the Québec Securities Commission (CVMQ).\n\nNASDAQ Canada commenced functioning with the inaugural opening of its office from Montreal, Quebec, Canada, on 21 November 2000. In the first phase of the development of Nasdaq Canada, trading operations were initially started with Nasdaq workstations and terminals installed at 10 participating Canadian securities firms in Montreal. The 10 initial Canadian brokerages participating in Nasdaq Canada are:\n\nThis enabled these firms to trade the 5,000 Nasdaq-listed companies directly through their local broker, including the 42 Canadian companies previously listed solely on Nasdaq U.S. In December 2000, there were 146 Canadian companies listed on NASDAQ.\n\nHelen Kearns was the first President of Nasdaq Canada.\nIn July 2004, Nasdaq announced the closing of Nasdaq Canada's only office in Montreal. Nasdaq Canada's operations are now run out of New York City.\n\nThe Nasdaq Canada Index was created at the same time as Nasdaq Canada. The Nasdaq Canada Index is composed of 61 companies. The ticker symbol of this index is CND.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1857068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857068", "title": "R33 (South Africa)", "text": "R33 (South Africa)\n\nThe R33 is a provincial route in South Africa that connects Pietermaritzburg with Lephalale via Greytown, Paulpietersburg, Carolina, Belfast and Vaalwater. It is a very long road, passing through 3 provinces (Limpopo, Mpumalanga and KwaZulu-Natal).\n\nThe R33 begins south of Lephalale, at a junction with the R510 next to The Junction Restaurant & Golf Range. It starts by going eastwards to cross the Mokolo River. After crossing the Mokolo River, the R33 turns south-east and heads for 85 kilometres, through the Grootwater Nature Reserve, to the town of Vaalwater, where it forms a junction with the R517.\n\nThe R33 becomes the road south-east from this junction. It continues south-east for 63 kilometres to the town of Modimolle (Formerly known as Nylstroom), entering the vicinity as Nelson Mandela Drive. Just after the Modimolle Correctional Centre, the R33 reaches a 4-way junction with the R101 Road (Thabo Mbeki Drive) and continues south-east for another 11 kilometres to meet the N1 Toll Highway (Northbound off-ramp only) just north of its Kranskop Toll Plaza.\n\nFrom the N1 junction, the R33 continues eastwards for 77 kilometres, meeting the R516 Route at a staggered junction, to reach a t-junction with the N11 National Route from Mokopane. They are cosigned as one road south-east for 16 kilometres into the town of Marble Hall, meeting the north-eastern terminus of the R573 Road from Pretoria. The R33 and the N11 remain cosigned as one road for the next 26 kilometres up to the town of Groblersdal.\n\nIn Groblersdal, at the north-eastern terminus of the R25 Road from Bronkhorstspruit (4-way junction, staggered junction), the R33 leaves the N11 National Route and becomes the road eastwards, crossing the Olifants River. It continues east-south-east for 61 kilometres to the town of Stofberg in Mpumalanga Province.\n\nInto Mpumalanga, the R33 meets the southern terminus of the R579 Road and continues to Stofberg, where it meets the R555 Road. They are cosigned southwards for 3 kilometres before they split, with the R33 continuing south-east. It travels for 39 kilometres to the town of Belfast, where it makes a left & right turn before meeting the southern terminus of the R540 Road.\n\nJust after Belfast, the R33 meets the N4 Highway (Maputo-Pretoria Highway) and crosses it. After crossing the highway, the R33 continues by a right turn and continues southwards for 46 kilometres, bypassing the Nooitgedacht Dam and its Nature Reserve, to the city centre of Carolina, where it reaches a 4-way intersection with the R36 Road and the R38 Route. At this junction, the R38 stops cosigning with the R36 northwards and begins cosigning with the R33 eastwards. They are cosigned for 1 and a half kilometres, before the R33 becomes its own road south-east.\n\nIt continues for 37 kilometres to meet the N17 National Route west of the town of Warburton. They are cosigned eastwards for 10 kilometres, through the town of Warburton, before the R33 becomes its own road southwards. It continues for 52 kilometres, bypassing the Westoe Dam, to the town of Amsterdam, where it reaches a 4-way junction with the R65 Road. It continues southwards for 47 kilometres to the town of Piet Retief.\n\n12 Kilometres before Piet Retief, the R33 Route is joined by the N2 National Route from Ermelo and they are cosigned southwards into Piet Retief. At the Junction with Kruger Street, the R543 Route from Wakkerstroom joins the N2/R33 cosignage southwards up to the 4th junction, where it becomes its own road eastwards to the border town of Mahamba, Eswatini.\n\nThe R33 Route and the N2 National Route remain cosigned for another 3.5 kilometres before the R33 becomes its own road southwards while the N2 turns to the east.\n\nFrom the N2 split, the R33 continues for 45 kilometres, crossing the Pongola River into the KwaZulu-Natal Province, to the town of Paulpietersburg, where it makes a left and a right turn. From Paulpietersburg, it heads 48 kilometres southwards to meet the western terminus of the R69 Route and the passing R34 Route in the town of Vryheid.\n\nWest of Vryheid Central, the R33 meets the R34 at a 4-way junction and they become cosigned on the road leaving the city to the west-south-west. After 23 kilometres, immediately after crossing the Blood River, the R34 Route becomes its own road north-west, leaving the R33 as the west-south-westerly road. The R33 proceeds for 47 kilometres to the town of Dundee.\n\n5 kilometres before Dundee, the R33 is joined by the R68 Route and they are cosigned on the road into Dundee. At the Wilson Street junction in Dundee Central, the R33 becomes Wilson Street towards the south-east, becoming Commercial Road at the 2nd junction following. It continues south-south-east for 124 kilometres, through Helpmekaar and Pomeroy, crossing the Tugela River, to the town of Greytown, where it meets the R74 Road at a t-junction.\n\nThe R33 cosigns with the R74 Road westwards through Greytown for 2 kilometres before the R33 becomes its own road southwards. The R33 continues for 70 kilometres, through New Hanover, Bypassing the Albert Falls Town, Dam and Game Reserve, to enter the city of Pietermaritzburg, where it reaches its end at an intersection with the N3 National Highway.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857081", "title": "R34 (South Africa)", "text": "R34 (South Africa)\n\nThe R34 is a long provincial route in South Africa that connects Vryburg with Richards Bay via Kroonstad and Newcastle. It passes through three provinces, North West, the Free State and KwaZulu-Natal.\n\nThe R34 begins a few kilometres east of the town of Vryburg at a t-junction with the N14 National Route, which is the main road into the town. The R34 starts by going south-east for 60 kilometres to the town of Schweizer-Reneke. In the town centre, it meets the R506 Road and the R504 Route at a 4-way junction with Schweizer Street. The R506 stops cosigning with the R504 westwards and begins cosigning with the R34 southwards. They are one road for 2.5 kilometres, before the R506 becomes its own road south-west.\n\nLeaving Schweizer-Reneke, the R34 continues south-east for 55 kilometres to the town of Bloemhof, where it reaches a t-junction with the N12 National Route (Prince Street). The R34 joins the N12 eastwards for 2 kilometres before becoming its own road eastwards while the N12 turns to the north-east. The R34 enters the Bloemhof Nature Reserve and proceeds to cross the Vaal River into the Free State Province.\n\nAs it enters the province, the R34 resumes in a south-easterly direction for 30 kilometres, through the Sandveld Nature Reserve (bypassing the Bloemhof Dam to the east), to enter the small town of Hoopstad, where it meets the R59 Road (Van Zyl Road). The R34 & R59 cosignage loops to the north of Hoopstad and turn eastwards before the R59 becomes its own road to the north-east just north of the Tikwana Suburb, leaving the R34 as the easterly road.\n\nFrom Hoopstad, the R34 continues for 40 kilometres to bypass the town of Wesselsbron to the south and meet the R719 Road at a 4-way-junction south-east of the town. It continues in an easterly direction for 30 kilometres to meet the R30 on the southerly outskirts of the town of Odendaalsrus (north of Welkom). They are cosigned northwards up to the next junction, where the R34 becomes its own road eastwards. At the north-western terminus of the R70 Road (Church Street), the R34 turns to the north-west and at the next roundabout with Van Der Vyver Street, the R34 turns northwards to become Voortrekker Avenue and separate Odendaalsrus Central from the Ross Kent East suburb. At the next roundabout, the R34 turns eastwards to become Althea Road.\n\nIt heads eastwards for 9 kilometres to meet the northern terminus of the R730 at a t-junction. The R34 continues as the road east-north-east from this junction and continues for 47 kilometres, meeting the eastern terminus of the R713, to meet the N1 National Route south of Kroonstad.\n\nAt the R730 junction, the R34 takes over being the ZR Mahabane Toll Highway maintained by SANRAL from the R730 (forms the last section of the toll route) and remains with the status up to the N1 in Kroonstad. Although there are no tollgates at the moment, the entire 47-kilometre-stretch from the R730 to the N1 is declared a toll road (indicated on road signage).\n\nAt the N1 interchange, the R34 joins the N1 Freeway northwards (concurrent) for 8 kilometres, meeting the R76 Road just after the interchange, crossing the Vals River, bypassing Kroonstad Central to the east, up to the R721 Road off-ramp, where the R34 becomes the road eastwards. There is only one off-ramp in between the R76 and R721 off-ramps, at Reitz Road east of Kroonstad Central.\n\nJust after the N1 & R721 interchange, the R34 meets the southern terminus of the R82 Road and continues eastwards for 42 kilometres to the town of Edenville where it meets the R720 Road and turns north-east. The R34 & R720 are one road north-east for 8 kilometers before the R720 becomes its own road to the north-west towards Koppies.\n\nThe R34 continues for another 42 kilometres to the town of Heilbron. Just south-west of the town, the R34 turns eastwards and meets the southern terminus of the R723 Route and the northern terminus of the R725 Route, before meeting the passing R57 Road south of the town & cosigning with it for a few kilometers eastwards.\n\nFrom Heilbron, it continues eastwards for 50 kilometres, meeting the northern terminus of the R707 Road, to the town of Frankfort. Just before entering Frankfort, the R26 Route from Tweeling joins it and the two routes enter Frankfort, crossing the Wilge River, as one road. After bypassing the town to the south-east, the R26 becomes its own road to the north-east and the R34 turns to the south-east, continuing for 26 kilometres to meet the N3 National Highway. It continues for another 13 kilometres eastwards to reach a t-junction with the R103 Road south of Cornelia.\n\nThe R34 and the R103 are cosigned southwards for 15 kilometres before the R34 becomes its own road eastwards. It continues for 13 kilometres to the town of Vrede. At the southern terminus of the R546 Road, the R34 turns to bypass the town to the south and meet the western terminus of the R543 Road south of the town. It continues south-east for 52 kilometres to the town of Memel, where it meets the northern terminus of the R722 Road. It continues east to cross the provincial border into KwaZulu-Natal.\n\nFrom Memel, the R34 continues for 48 kilometres to the town of Newcastle, entering the town from the north-west and reaching a t-junction with Allen Street north of the Newcastle Central Business District. The R34 becomes the road north-east from this intersection up to its junction with the N11 National Route. It joins the N11 for 7 kilometres northwards before the R34 becomes its own road eastwards, crossing the Buffalo River. It continues for 35 kilometres to the town of Utrecht, entering the town from the north. It leaves the town in a south-easterly direction and continues for 40 kilometres to reach an intersection with the R33 close to a section of the Blood River.\n\nFrom this junction, the R33 and the R34 are cosigned as one road north-east into the town of Vryheid. West of Vryheid at a 4-way junction, The R33 becomes the road to the north and the R34 becomes the road southwards, forming a semi-ring road around Vryheid. Midway along the semi-ring road, the R34 meets the western terminus of the R69 Route (which completes the road around Vryheid) and the R34 turns southwards.\n\nThe R34 continues southwards for 100 kilometres, crossing the White Umfolozi River and the Mpembeni River, to meet the R66 (King Dinizulu Highway) south-west of Ulundi. They are cosigned southwards for 53 kilometres, meeting the eastern end of the R68 Road and passing through Melmoth, before the R34 becomes its own road eastwards near the Goedertrouw Dam. After 40 km, it enters Empangeni as Nkwanazi Street from the north-west and passes through the town to reach a major intersection with the R102 Road (Grantham Highway) in the southern outskirts. It leaves Empangeni as the John Ross Parkway eastwards and after a brief distance intersects and crosses the N2 freeway and continues east to Richards Bay, where it meets the southern terminus of the R619 Road. It proceeds eastwards to end just north of the Alkantstrand Beach.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857082", "title": "Tijuca", "text": "Tijuca\n\nTijuca () (meaning marsh or swamp in the Tupi language, from \"ty\" (\"water\") and \"îuk\" (\"rotten\")) is a neighbourhood of the Northern Zone of the city of Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. It comprises the region of Saens Peña and Afonso Pena squares. According to the 2000 Census, the district has close to 150,000 inhabitants. It borders with Praça da Bandeira, Maracanã, Vila Isabel, Andaraí, Grajaú and Alto da Boa Vista neighbourhoods.\n\nIt is one of the most traditional districts of Rio de Janeiro and has the third largest urban forest in the world, the Tijuca Forest, which is result of reforestation from coffee fields that led to lack of water at that time. Mainly a middle class district, it has been historically inhabited by Portuguese immigrant families and the families of military officers.\n\nTijuca hosts Salgueiro, Império da Tijuca and Unidos da Tijuca, three of the main Rio de Janeiro Samba Schools, that together have won 13 titles.\n\nTijuca is also home to many favelas such as Salgueiro, Borel, Formiga, Turano and Casa Branca.\n"}
{"id": "1857091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857091", "title": "Tyler School of Art and Architecture", "text": "Tyler School of Art and Architecture\n\nThe Tyler School of Art and Architecture is based at Temple University, a large, urban, public research university in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Tyler currently enrolls about 1,350 undergraduate students and about 200 graduate students in a wide variety of academic degree programs, including architecture, art education, art history, art therapy, ceramics, city and regional planning, community arts practices, community development, facilities management, fibers and material studies, glass, graphic and interactive design, historic preservation, horticulture, landscape architecture, metals/jewelry/CAD-CAM, painting, photography, printmaking, sculpture and visual studies. \n\nFounded in 1935 by Stella Elkins Tyler and sculptor Boris Blai in nearby Elkins Park, Pennsylvania, Tyler moved to a new, 255,000-square-foot facility at Temple's Main Campus in 2009 with the cornerstone financial support of an allocation of $61.5 million from the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. In 2012, Tyler's Architecture programs moved into a new facility connected to the main Tyler building. Temple's programs in Landscape Architecture and Horticulture (based primarily at Temple's suburban Ambler Campus) and its programs in Main Campus-based City & Regional Planning and Community Development programs joined Tyler in 2016, unifying all of the university's architecture and environmental design disciplines in one school for the first time.\n\nIn 2017, arts administrator, art historian and curator Susan E. Cahan, formerly associate dean and dean for the arts at Yale College at Yale University, was appointed dean of the Tyler School of Art and Architecture by Temple President Richard M. Englert.\n\nIn 2018, Temple University's board of trustees approved changes to Tyler's structure and identity in order to unify the school, integrate disciplines in architecture and environmental design, support cross-disciplinary studies and reflect current understanding of creative practice and research. On July 1, 2019, the school's name officially expanded from the Tyler School of Art to the Tyler School of Art and Architecture.\n\nThe Tyler School of Art and Architecture offers a wide range of degree and certificate programs in the areas of art, architecture and environmental design, graphic design, art history and art education. Tyler students also have access to the comprehensive programs and resources of Temple University.\n\nUnder Susan E. Cahan, Tyler's dean since 2017, Tyler has placed a renewed emphasis on cross-disciplinary studies and collaboration in its academic and co-curricular programs.\n\nTyler's academic degree programs:\n\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki> also available as BFA with Entrepreneurial Studies or a BFA with Art Education concentration\n\n<nowiki>**</nowiki> post-professional degree available with optional concentrations in Advanced Technologies and Design, Urban Ecologies and Design, Health and Design\n\n<nowiki>***</nowiki> post-professional degree available with an optional concentration in Health and Design\n\nIn addition to its degree programs, Tyler also offers undergraduate certificate programs in Community Arts Practices, Creative Entrepreneurship, Environmental Sustainability, Historic Preservation, Horticultural Therapy, Landscape Plants, Native Perennial Garden Design and Sustainable Food Systems; and graduate certificate programs in Community Arts Practices, Health Facilities Planning, Sustainable Community Planning and Transportation Planning.\n\nTemple also has a BA in Art program at Temple University, Japan Campus, located in Tokyo.\n\nThe Tyler School of Art and Architecture at Temple University is a non-profit, accredited member of the National Association of Schools of Art and Design and the Middle States Association of Colleges and Schools. Tyler's MArch degree program is accredited by the National Architectural Accrediting Board, and the school's BLArch and MLArch programs are accredited by the National Landscape Architecture Board and the Landscape Architecture Accreditation Board. Tyler's MS program in City and Regional Planning is accredited by the Planning Accreditation Board. The BS program in Facilities Management is accredited by the International Facilities Management Association.\n\nSince 2009, when what was then known as the Tyler School of Art moved into its new home, a 250,000-square-foot building designed by award-winning architect Carlos Jiménez, Tyler's art students and faculty have had access to expansive, state-of-the-art facilities. Tyler's architecture students and faculty experienced a similar boost in size and quality of facilities when the program moved into a new, 50,000-square-foot Architecture Building in 2012—Temple's first building dedicated solely to architecture. The two structures, which are connected by a glass-enclosed passageway, are located at Temple University's Main Campus in Philadelphia, giving the Tyler community access to the city's museums, galleries and other arts-related resources. Their location adjacent to Presser Hall (part of Temple University's Boyer College of Music and Dance) and Temple Theaters (part of Temple's School of Theater, Film and Media Arts) has created an arts quadrant in the northeast corner of campus.\n\nThe central courtyard between Tyler's two primary buildings is one of the largest green spaces at Temple University's Main Campus. In 2018, the Natural Dye Garden, a collaboration between students and faculty in Tyler's Fibers & Material Studies and Landscape Architecture programs, was installed in the courtyard, part of a plan to re-activate the courtyard and make it a space for interdisciplinary collaboration and recreation.\n\nNotable Tyler facilities include:\n\n\nTyler also hosts a variety of visiting artist, architect and scholar programs that bring leaders in their disciplines to the school to address the Tyler community and work with students in their classrooms and studios. Flagship visiting artist and scholar programs include:\n\nThe Critical Dialogue series, a core component of Tyler's MFA programs in Painting and Sculpture that has been bringing internationally renowned artists, filmmakers, architects, curators, scholars, and writers to campus to work with Tyler students for more than four decades. Past visitors include:\n\nThe Jack Wolgin Annual Visiting Artist Symposium, an endowed visiting artist program that brings one of the nation's most influential artists and thinkers to campus to work with Tyler students and present a free public lecture each year. Past Jack Wolgin Annual Visiting Artists:\n\n\nTyler Architecture alumni endowed a lecture series to honor Brigitte Knowles, professor emerita and former associate dean, that brings the world's leading architects, landscape architects and designers to campus. Past lecturers include:\n\n\nThe Laurie Wagman Lecture Series in Glass, a visiting artist program that brings internationally renowned glass artists to Tyler to work with students and present free public lectures. Past lecturers include\n\n\nTemple Contemporary is Tyler's exhibitions and public programs unit, which has been led by Robert Blackson, Tyler's director of exhibitions and public programming, since 2011. Temple Contemporary's galleries and offices are located in the Tyler building at Temple University's Main Campus, although much of its programming takes place in the surrounding Philadelphia community.\n\nTemple Contemporary's mission is \"to re-imagine the social function of art through questions of local relevance and international significance.” To achieve that goal, Temple Contemporary relies on a \"ground-up\" programming model. The issues that Temple Contemporary tackles in its gallery exhibitions and other public programming are not determined by its director, but are prompted by a democratic process spearheaded by an advisory council made up of non-Temple-University-based local residents (ranging from high school students to community leaders), Temple University and Tyler faculty members, Temple University and Tyler students and others.\n\nTemple Contemporary's community-focused programming that has earned national attention includes \"Funeral for a Home\" (2014), an extended commemoration of at-risk urban housing stock and the lives that soon-to-be-demolished homes contain; \"reForm\" (2014-2015), a response to the closure of public schools and its impact on urban communities and their children by artist and Tyler faculty member Pepón Osorio; and \"Symphony for a Broken Orchestra\" (2017-2018), a citywide effort to collect, display, repair and return broken instruments belonging to Philadelphia's public schools, highlighted by the composition of music for the broken instruments by composer David Lang and the music's performance by a diverse orchestra of local residents. All three of the projects above were funded in part by the Pew Center for Arts & Heritage.\n\n\nArts patron Stella Elkins Tyler (of the Elkins/Widener family) donated her estate in Elkins Park, Pennsylvania, to Temple University in the early 1930s. With an interest in progressive education and a deep appreciation of her mentor, the sculptor Boris Blai, Tyler offered her estate with the expressed wish that, through Boris Blai, it would become an environment for the advancement of the fine arts, scholarly study in the arts and individual creativity. As founding dean of what was then known as the Stella Elkins Tyler School of Fine Arts, Blai instilled the school with a commitment to progressive education emphasizing the student's mastery of technique within the framework of a liberal arts curriculum. Blai insisted upon individual attention to each student's needs as the basis of successful teaching. During his 25-year tenure as dean, Blai shaped the school into one of the finest visual arts centers in the country, and his founding ideals still remain paramount to Tyler's educational philosophy.\n\nIn 1960, Charles Le Clair succeeded Blai. Under Le Clair, the Tyler campus was improved with construction of a residence hall and two studio/classroom buildings. In 1966, the school's name was changed to the Tyler School of Art, and Le Clair founded the Tyler Study Abroad program in Rome, Italy. Tyler's programs at Temple University Rome remain among the most respected fine arts study abroad programs in Europe today. Temple University Rome has expanded to include a full range of liberal arts, architecture, business and law courses with an emphasis on those relating to Rome, Italy and Europe. Throughout the 1960s and 1970s, Tyler's curriculum continued to grow in response to new definitions of art-making and the role of art in society. New programs and modern facilities in design, ceramics, glass, metals and photography were added. During this time, Tyler established Art History and Art Education departments on Temple's Main Campus in Philadelphia.\n\nThe pace of change and growth began to accelerate dramatically in the late 1990s. In 1998, Tyler welcomed Temple's Department of Architecture. In 2009, Tyler moved from Elkins Park into a new, 250,000-square-foot building at Temple's Main Campus. Three years later, Architecture moved into a new 50,000-square-foot facility connected to the new Tyler building. Temple's programs in landscape architecture, horticulture, city and regional planning and community development became part of Tyler in 2016, for the first time unifying all of the architecture and environmental design disciplines at Temple in one academic unit. In 2017, Tyler welcomed Susan E. Cahan, who came from Yale University to become first permanent dean of an independent Tyler since the school moved into its new building in 2009. On July 1, 2019, more than 20 years after Architecture at Temple became part of Tyler, the school's name officially became the Tyler School of Art and Architecture.\n\nTyler's leaders:\n\n"}
{"id": "1857097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857097", "title": "R35 (South Africa)", "text": "R35 (South Africa)\n\nThe R35 is a provincial route in South Africa that connects Amersfoort with Middelburg. The R35 used to connect with the N3 near Ladysmith, but the portion of the road from Amersfoort onwards is now part of the N11.\n\nThe R35 begins its southern terminus as Sybrand van Niekerk Street on the corner of Plein Street (N11) in Amersfoort. It leaves the town in a north-westward direction eventually crossing the Vaal River after some distance before heading northwards. It enters Morgenzon from the south as De Jager Street. It crosses Steyn Street (R39) and heads northwards out the town eventually crossing the Blesbokspruit and Kwaggalaagte rivers. Entering Bethal from the south, it joins the N17 through the town centre. It leaves the N17 in the northern suburbs of Bethal and heads northwards again where it splits from the R38, that heads north-east to Hendrina.\n\nAs the R35 heads north, it is intersected as t-junction by the R544 that heads northwest to Witbank. The road continues northward eventually crossing the Olifants River and Leeuwfontein and then intersected as t-junction by the R542 at Komati and heads west to Rethabile. Continuing northward it interchanges with the N4 freeway just south of Middleburg where it becomes Samora Machel Street. The R35's northern terminus ends when Samora Machel Street meets the main road of Cowen Ntuli Street (N11) as a t-junction.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857102", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857102", "title": "R36 (South Africa)", "text": "R36 (South Africa)\n\nThe R36 is a provincial route in South Africa that connects the N1 (between Louis Trichardt and Polokwane) with Ermelo, via Tzaneen and Lydenburg. It is co-signed with the N4 for 8 kilometres between Machadodorp and Patattanek, with a tollgate on this section. It used to extend further south past Ermelo to Amersfoort, but this is now designated as part of the N11.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857103", "title": "Printer's devil", "text": "Printer's devil\n\nA printer's devil was an apprentice in a printing establishment who performed a number of tasks, such as mixing tubs of ink and fetching type. Notable writers including Ambrose Bierce, Benjamin Franklin, Walt Whitman, and Mark Twain served as printer's devils in their youth.\n\nThe origin of \"printer's devil\" is not definitively known. Various competing theories of the phrase's origin follow.\n\n\"Printer's devil\" has been ascribed to parts of printer's apprentices' skin inevitably being stained black by the ink used in printing. As black was associated with the \"black arts\", the apprentice came to be called a devil.\n\nAnother origin is linked to the fanciful belief among printers that a special devil (see the typographical personification Titivillus) haunted every print shop, performing mischief such as inverting type, misspelling words and removing entire lines of completed type. The apprentice became a substitute source of blame and came to be called a \"printer's devil\" by association.\n\nA third source involves a business partner of Johann Gutenberg, Johann Fust, who sold several of Gutenberg's bibles to King Louis XI of France and his court officials, representing the bibles as hand-copied manuscripts. When it was discovered that individual letters were identical in appearance, Fust was accused of witchcraft – the red ink text was said to have been written in blood, and Fust was imprisoned. Though Fust was later freed after the bibles' origins were revealed, many still believed he was in league with Satan, thus the phrase.\n\nAnother possible origin is ascribed to Aldus Manutius, a well-known Venetian printer of the Renaissance and founder of the Aldine Press, who was denounced by detractors for practicing the black arts (early printing was long associated with devilry). The assistant to Manutius was a young boy of African descent who was accused of being the embodiment of Satan and dubbed the \"printer's devil\".\n\nOne likely source stems from the fact that worn and broken lead type is thrown into a hellbox, which the printer's devil must take to the furnace for melting and recasting.\n\nEnglish tradition links the origin of \"printer's devil\" to the assistant of the first English printer and book publisher, William Caxton. Caxton's assistant was named \"Deville\", which evolved to \"devil\" over time, as that name was used to describe other printers' apprentices.\n\nA number of notable men served as printer's devils in their youth, including Ambrose Bierce, William Dean Howells, James Printer, Benjamin Franklin, Raymond C. Hoiles, Samuel Fuller, Thomas Jefferson, Walt Whitman, Mark Twain, Joel Chandler Harris, Warren Harding, Lawrence Tibbett, John Kellogg, Lyndon Johnson, Hoodoo Brown, James Hogg, Geoff Lloyd, Joseph Lyons, Albert Parsons, Meade Huggins and Lázaro Cárdenas.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857105", "title": "R37 (South Africa)", "text": "R37 (South Africa)\n\nThe R37 is a provincial route in South Africa that connects Polokwane with Nelspruit (Mbombela) via Burgersfort and Lydenburg.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857107", "title": "EZ2DJ", "text": "EZ2DJ\n\nEZ2DJ is a series of music video games created by the South Korean company AmuseWorld. The basic manner of gameplay is similar as in the Konami's \"Beatmania\" series; however, as the franchise continues, it differs in style of music and gameplay. The first edition of \"EZ2DJ\" was introduced in 1999 and last version, \"EZ2DJ Azure Expression ~Integral Composition~\" was released in June 2012. Afterwards, following the lawsuit against Konami, the rights for franchise were given to Square Pixels company, and development continued under the title of \"EZ2AC\", with latest version being \"EZ2AC Final\", which was released in May 2019.\n\n\"EZ2DJ\" cabinet features a total of 10 speakers. There are four mid-range speakers stacked vertically on either side of the screen, and two subwoofers located on the front of the machine. The cabinet also features a pair of headphone jacks, giving players the options to use their own headphones. Using headphones does not disable the external speakers.\n\n\"EZ2DJ\" cabinet features four red effector buttons, located at the top of the controller part. However, unlike the \"Beatmania\" series, depending on the game mode, effector button are treated as a gameplay button, especially in the game mode \"Radio Mix\", where each player need to control 2 effector buttons. Essentially this is very similar to the 7 key mode of \"Beatmania IIDX\", but due to the location of these effector button—located in a row right at center of the console panel, right underneath the screen and away from the keyboard—it makes it even more difficult than \"Beatmania IIDX\" in some occasion (especially since it also use the pedal). Also, another game mode named \"Space Mix\" uses all four buttons along with all keys and turn tables (excludes pedals), becoming the hardest gamemode in the game.\n\nOn July 10, 2007 Konami won a patent infringement suit against AmuseWorld. Konami had originally filed a lawsuit against AmuseWorld in 2001 over the same issue which they settled out of court. It is believed that this settlement was due to the continued release of the title. Following the second trial, a Korean judge's ruling ordered AmuseWorld to pay Konami damages and stop production of the product completely. AmuseWorld paid 11.7 Billion won in satisfaction to Konami.\n"}
{"id": "1857109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857109", "title": "R38 (South Africa)", "text": "R38 (South Africa)\n\nThe R38 is a provincial route in South Africa that connects Standerton with Kaapmuiden via Bethal and Barberton. It is main route through the province of Mpumalanga.\n\nThe R38 begins in the north of Standerton, north-east of the Grootdraai Dam. It begins as a fork off the R39, heading north then north-east and enters the town of Bethal from the south close to the Emzinoni township and becomes Anderson Street. It winds through Bethal first as Percy de Kok Street then leaves the town eastwards as Jubulani Selepe Street. It junctions with the R35 in East Bethal before heading north-east out of the town. It crosses the \"Viskuile \"and Olifants rivers in it journey northwards before entering the town of Hendrina from the west. Here the road becomes one of the town's main thoroughfares called Beukes Street before crossing the main road of Church Street (N11).\n\nThe road leaves the town in an easterly direction crossing the Little Olifants River and much later the Vaalwaterspruit. South-west of Carolina, the road ends at a t-junction with the R36. The R38 continues north east into Carolina crossing the Boesmanspruit and becomes Kerk Street. It then turns right into Voortrekker Street (R33) where it is cosigned and heads roughly east before splitting from the R33 which heads south while the R38 continues east and then north-east to Badplaas. The road bypasses the north end of Badplaas, intersecting with the R541 and leaves the town in a north-easterly direction crossing the Seekoeispruit. The R541 eventually heads northwards while the R38 continues north-east skirting the south end of the Vygeboom Dam and the Komati River. In continues east until the road ends north-east of Barberton when it ends in a t-junction with the R40 where it is cosigned.\n\nThe R38 resumes in the suburb of Barberton Ext 6 as Sheba Road and heads northwards through the village Caledonian skirting the Mountainlands Nature Reserve to its east before turning in an easterly direction then heading northwards and ends as t-junction with the N4 just south of Matsulu.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857110", "title": "Ciclopirox", "text": "Ciclopirox\n\nCiclopirox is a synthetic antifungal agent for topical dermatologic treatment of superficial mycoses. It is most useful against \"Tinea versicolor\". It is sold under many brand names worldwide.\n\nCiclopirox is indicated for the treatment of tinea pedis and tinea corporis due to \"Trichophyton rubrum\", \"Trichophyton mentagrophytes\" and \"Epidermophyton floccosum\", as well as seborrheic dermatitis. It is not to be used in the eyes or vagina, and nursing women should consult their doctors before use, since it is not known whether ciclopirox passes into human milk. A burning sensation may be felt when first applying ciclopirox on the skin.\n\nIn addition to other formulations, ciclopirox is used in lacquers for topical treatment of onychomycosis (fungal infections of the nails). A meta-analysis of the six trials of nail infections available in 2009 concluded that they provided evidence that topical ciclopirox had poor cure rates and that amorolfine might be substantially more effective, but more research was required.\n\n\"Combining data from 2 trials of ciclopiroxolamine versus placebo found treatments failure rates of 61% and 64% for ciclopiroxolamine. These outcomes followed long treatment times (48 weeks) and this makes ciclopiroxolamine a poor choice for nail infections. Better results were observed with the use of amorolfine lacquer; 6% treatment failure rates were found after 1 month of treatment but these data were collected on a very small sample of people and these high rates of success might be unreliable.\"\n\nIn contrast to the azoles and other antimycotic drugs, the mechanism of action of ciclopirox is poorly understood. However, loss of function of certain catalase and peroxidase enzymes has been implicated as the mechanism of action, as well as various other components of cellular metabolism. In a study conducted to further elucidate ciclopirox's mechanism, several \"Saccharomyces cerevisiae\" mutants were screened and tested. Results from interpretation of the effects of both the drug treatment and mutation suggested that ciclopirox may exert its effect by disrupting DNA repair, cell division signals and structures (mitotic spindles) as well as some elements of intracellular transport.\n\nIt acts by inhibiting the membrane transfer system by interrupting the Na K ATPase. It is currently being investigated as an alternative treatment to ketoconazole for seborrhoeic dermatitis as it suppresses growth of the yeast \"Malassezia furfur\". Initial results show similar efficacy to ketoconazole with a relative increase in subjective symptom relief due to its inherent anti-inflammatory properties.\n\nCiclopirox is a considered a hydroxypyrimidine (\"sic\") antifungal agent. Structurally, ciclopirox is the \"N\"-oxide of a 2-hydroxypyridine derivative and therefore ought to be termed a hydroxypyridine antifungal agent. Additionally, the structure as drawn above is the lactam tautomer and indicates the molecule being an N-Hydroxy-2-pyridone. Hence the classification of ciclopirox as a 2-pyridone antifungal agent.\n\nCiclopirox is used clinically as \"ciclopirox olamine\", the olamine salt of ciclopirox.\n"}
{"id": "1857112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857112", "title": "Evangelical Presbyterian Church in England and Wales", "text": "Evangelical Presbyterian Church in England and Wales\n\nThe Evangelical Presbyterian Church in England and Wales (EPCEW) () is a reformed and conservative evangelical denomination in both England and Wales with churches in Germany and Sweden. Founded in 1996, the denomination is small but growing.\n\nIn 1986, a Presbyterian conference was held in a Free Church of Scotland chapel in London, where a vision of a new Presbyterian denomination in England was proposed, which was to be faithful to Scripture and adhere to the Westminster Confession. As a consequence, the Presbyterian Association in England was formed in 1987 from several small Christian groups and existing congregations with efforts at church planting following. In 1991, an interim Presbytery was formed with congregations in Blackburn, Cambridge, Chelmsford, Durham and Hull to work towards the establishment of the new denomination. This came to fruition in 1996, taking the name, \"Evangelical Presbyterian Church in England and Wales\". \n\nIn 2000, two congregations in Cardiff, Immanuel and Bethel, were accepted into communion. The EPCEW has grown significantly since its founding with a number of congregations joining the EPCEW and others being planted by existing churches. The denomination recently planted a church in the Salford/Manchester area and is working to establish church plants in Oxford, Lincoln, and Sunderland. They are actively looking to plant churches throughout England and Wales.\n\nDenominational growth has been steady:\n\nAs of 2018, the denomination has twenty congregations at:\n\n\n\n\n\nSeveral EPCEW ministers were instrumental in the recent founding of Westminster Presbyterian Theological Seminary in Gateshead, UK. WPTS aims to equip men to hold fast to God’s faithful Word, with a particular focus on preparation for planting churches in the UK and continental Europe. The school is committed to the Westminster Standards, experiential Calvinism, Presbyterian Church government, ordinary means of grace ministry, and the regulative principle of worship. The seminary offers a range of courses accredited through Greenville Presbyterian Theological Seminary, including the Master of Divinity (MDiv).\n\nThe denomination publishes \"The Presbyterian Network\" in Spring and Autumn with theological and pastoral articles and news from its congregations.\n\nAlong with the Free Church of Scotland and the Free Church of Scotland (Continuing), the denomination is one of the three members of the International Conference of Reformed Churches from Great Britain, and one of seven European Christian denominations who founded the European Conference of Reformed Churches. The denomination has a co-operative agreement with the Presbyterian Church in America.\n"}
{"id": "1857113", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857113", "title": "R39 (South Africa)", "text": "R39 (South Africa)\n\nThe R39 is a provincial route in South Africa that connects Standerton with Ermelo. It is a route in the province of Mpumalanga.\n\nThe R39 has its beginnings in Baumann Street, Florapark, northern Standerton, at an intersection with the R50, R23 and R546 routes. It leaves the town in a north-easterly direction with the Grootdraai Dam to its east. Junctioning with the R38 that heads north to Bethal, it continues north-easterly crossing the Blesbokspruit before entering and leaving Morgenzon as Steyn Street bisecting the north-south R35 road in the town. Leaving the town, it continues north-east before Ermelo from the east ending as a T junction with the Bethal Road / Joubert Street on the N17.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857117", "title": "Emin (esoteric movement)", "text": "Emin (esoteric movement)\n\nThe Emin or The Emin Society is a spiritual movement based on the work of Raymond Armin, known to members as \"Leo\". Originally, The Emin was named \"The Eminent Way\" or \"The Way\". The movement arose in the 1970s. The Template Network is a movement which offers activities inspired by the Emin philosophy.\n\nThe movement started in London in 1973. It was first known as the Emin society and then Eminent Way, which was later abbreviated to \"Emin\". In 1977 an Israeli branch emerged, and a center was established in a Tel Aviv neighborhood in 1980. By 1978 there were also groups in the USA, Canada and Australia. \n\nIn Israel, Emin members established the village Ma'ale Tzviya in 1986. Over the years The Emin grew to have gatherings of people in many other countries including Ireland, France, Greece, Italy, Germany, Denmark, Sweden, the Netherlands, Brazil, and New Zealand. \n\nRaymond Armin was born in London (1924) under the name Schirtenlieb, and did most of his schooling in London, living around the St. Johns Wood area. He started his working life as an apprentice tool maker at Borehamwood near London England. Armin did time in the R.A.F. as a quartermaster (His rank was staff sergeant). He married Violet Burton from Waterloo.\n\nAfter the war Armin worked at various locations around the London areas, as manager of a furniture company based in Camden Town, London, and then as a market demonstrator. During the late 1940s and early 1950s, while still living in central London, he became father to four children, one of whom died soon after birth. He relocated in 1958 to Yorkshire to follow a new profession as a travelling salesman selling furniture polish, and then a few years later as an encyclopaedia salesman. In 1960 Armin moved to Nottingham, and moved back to London in 1965, where he worked as a civilian driver for the police and a guard for a security firm.\n\nIn 1971 Armin's son John met up with a group of people who were staying in London after travelling around the world 'looking for something'. John suggested they would be interested in meeting his dad. They formed into a group under the Armins' leadership, and all met regularly over the next two years, primarily at Leo's council flat in Hackney. \n\nIn 1972 the group began officially as 'The Emin Society' at which time Raymond Armin became known as 'Leo' and John as 'Orman' within the society. The society used many halls around the London areas, eventually occupying a small centre at Gospel Oak in London. Autumn of 1976 saw a relocation to a larger centre at Hotham Road, Putney, London..\n\nAt the end of the eighties Raymond Armin moved with his wife (Violet) to America, eventually both becoming American citizens. From 1995 until his death Armin lived in a waterfront retreat at Jensen Beach Florida. Armin died in August 2002 from an aortic aneurysm. Violet Armin (Ruth) died in 2008 in her sleep.\n\nThe Emin was founded by members of the Armin family and a gathering of friends interested in Leo's work. Armin was born on 27 July 1924, and died in 2002.\n\nArmin has left numerous lectures, written and recorded on audio and video tape. These include writings on psychology and personal development, theology, cosmology, history, meditation, and various practical personal development and perception exercises. Most, but not all, of these writings were written by Raymond Armin.\n\nThe Template is a philosophical concept, introduced by Armin in 1992. It describes the spiritual development of the non-physical body through a hierarchically structured system of 16 spheres. Every sphere, with a symbolic name like \"amethyst\" or \"ruby\", represents a level of consciousness.\n\nThe Template Network is an affiliation of groups involved with the Emin philosophy. It is an international network of independent groups, with interests including education, art, ecology, well-being, science and spirituality. As of 2009 there were some 1700 people regularly engaged within these groups. There are groups in Australia, Brazil, Canada, Denmark, France, Germany, Israel, Italy, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Sweden, the United Kingdom, and United States. In the UK some of the groups make use of buildings and facilities run by the Template Foundation. There are also several independent organisations and companies offering courses on a commercial basis, that draw on Emin concepts and practices. These include Blue Rose Wellness, an Emin/Template center of spiritual healing, located in Brier, Washington state, United States, and the Ruby Care Foundation, an Emin/Template charity group concerned with grief and loss management.\n\nOne premise held by Template Network groups is that creation is continuously evolving and that human life is part of that evolution. Another is that human life is an opportunity to consciously find one's own purpose within that evolution. Each individual is responsible for his or her own development and destiny.\n\nIn 1985, Emin established a centre in Leiden, Netherlands. In the 1990s it founded the Gemrod Foundation, which organized esoteric workshops, e.g. courses on clairvoyance and aura reading.\n\nVarious books have been published in limited editions. They include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1857118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857118", "title": "R40 (South Africa)", "text": "R40 (South Africa)\n\nThe R40 is a provincial route in South Africa that connects the Swaziland border at Bulembu via Barberton, Nelspruit, Hoedspruit and with Phalaborwa. The route covers to provinces and passes through several private game reserves. It is co-signed with the R526 for five kilometres.\n\nThe R40 has its southern terminus on the Swaziland border at the Bulembu Border Post. From the post, it heads briefly west through the Songimvelo Game Reserve before winding its way north. In the Mountainlands Nature Reserve, it turns north-west. Leaving the reserve it enters the northern outskirts of Barberton. At an intersection with Sheba Rd, it continues west, cosigned with the R38 as Pride of de Kaap Street. After crossing the Queen's River north west of Barberton, the R38 splits at a t-junction and heads south-west while the R40 now heads northwards and eventually skirts the eastern boundary of the Barberton Nature Reserve. It eventually enters the southern outskirts of Nelspruit as Madiba Drive. Madiba Drive continues northwards through Nelspruit crossing the east-west main street of Samora Machel Drive before crossing over the Crocodile River on the towns northern boundary leaving in a north-easterly direction. As it enters White River in a north-easterly direction, it is intersected from the left with R537. The R40 continues through the town as its main road called Chief Mgiyeni Khumalo Drive. Midway through the town, the R40 turns north through the CBD as Theo Kleynhans Street. North of the town, it passes through a large roundabout intersecting the R538 that heads east while the R40 continues north. It passes on its winding northward journey, the Klipkopjes Dam to the west and later the Da Gama Dam to its east and where the road takes a north-easterly direction and eventually t-junctions with the R538. At this intersection it heads north cosigned with the former as it enters Hazyview from the south. Leaving Hazyview it heads northwards crossing the Sabie River and later the Marite River. On its northward journey it passes between the Injaka Dam to the west and the Bosbokrand Nature Reserve to the east. It continues northwards passing an area of many small villages and hamlets.\n\nCrossing into Limpopo Province it crosses the Klaserie River and intersects with the R531 where it turns north passing through private game reserves and eventually enters Hoedspruit from the south. Passing through Hoedspruit, it leaves in a north-westerly direction passing through more private game reserves before crossing the Olifants River and shortly thereafter the R530 intersects as a t-junction near Mica. Changing direction to the north-east, it eventually crosses the Ga-Selati River and after a short distance, the R40s northern terminus is a t-junction with the R71, with the latter entering Phalaborwa from the west after 5km.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857125", "title": "R41 (South Africa)", "text": "R41 (South Africa)\n\nThe R41 is a provincial route in Gauteng, South Africa, that connects Johannesburg with Randfontein via Roodepoort.\n\nThe R41 route begins in Johannesburg, at an intersection with the two one-way-streets of the R24 route (Albertina Sisulu Road and Commissioner Street). The route begins by going west-south-west, named Main Reef Road and meeting the western end of the R29 Route. South-west of the city centre, in the suburb of Crown, the R41 meets the western end of the M2 Johannesburg-Germiston Highway (Francis Oberholzer Freeway), meets the M17 Road of Johannesburg and continues west, bypassing various Chinese marts and shopping centres in the area.\n\nNorth of the Riverlea Suburb, the R41 meets Johannesburg's M5 road (Nasrec Road), which heads south to FNB Stadium and Aeroton. Continuing west, the R41 crosses over the N1 Johannesburg Western Bypass as a flyover and enters the southern suburbs of Roodepoort. It bypasses Florida and Roodepoort Central to the south before going west towards Randfontein. At this point, the street name changes from Main Reef Road to Randfontein Road. The R24 Road is mostly parallel and is an alternative route between Johannesburg and Roodepoort.\n\nAfter Roodepoort, the R41 continues westwards, crosses the R558 Road and quickly enters the Mogale City Local Municipality, a division of the West Rand District Municipality, bypassing the township of Kagiso. It continues westwards to enter the town of Randfontein in the Rand West City Local Municipality, also a division of the West Rand.\n\nNorth of Randfontein Central, the R41 meets the R28 Road from Krugersdorp and they are cosigned as one road southwards for 800 metres before the R41 becomes its own road westwards. It heads west for 29 kilometres, through Randfontein Rural and a few farming properties, to reach at an intersection with the R500 Road. The R500 and the R41 are cosigned northwards for 3 Kilometres up to their intersection with the N14 National Route, marking its end.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857128", "title": "R42 (South Africa)", "text": "R42 (South Africa)\n\nThe R42 is a provincial route in South Africa that connects Vanderbijlpark with Bronkhorstspruit via Vereeniging, Heidelberg, Nigel and Delmas.\n\nThe R42 begins south of Bronkhorstspruit, City of Tshwane, Gauteng, at an intersection with the R25. It goes southwards, bypassing the Bronkhorstspruit Municipal Nature Reserve and temporarily enters Mpumalanga Province.\n\nIn Mpumalanga Province, the R42 continues southwards and crosses the N12 Freeway, entering Delmas. The distance from Bronkhorstspruit to Delmas is 35km.\n\nIn Delmas Central, the R42 joins the R50 Road. They are one road south-east for 5km, crossing the R555 in Delmas Central. South of Delmas, the R42 continues by way of a right turn, continuing south-west.\n\nThe R42 re-enters Gauteng Province and meets the R29 Road and N17 National Route on their route midway between Springs and Devon. The R42 continues south-west, bypassing the Marievale Bird Sanctuary and Nigel Dam as Nigel-Delmas Road, to Nigel. The journey from Delmas to Nigel is 43km.\n\nIn Nigel, at the Balfour Road junction, the R42 cosigns with the R51 and R550 for a few kilometres westwards, forming the northern border of Nigel's CBD, up to the main four-way junction after the Glenverloch suburb. At this junction, as the R51 continues via a right turn and the R550 continues straight, the R42 continues via a left turn. The R42 goes a small distance (15km) south-west as Heidelberg-Nigel road, following the Blesbokspruit, to Heidelberg.\n\nEntering Heidelberg, as Jacobs Street, the R42 crosses the N3 Johannesburg-Durban Highway. At Louw Street, the R42 makes a right turn and a left turn at the next junction to become HF Verwoerd Street. It then intersects with the R23 Road and continues west-south-west, becoming the southern border of the Suikerbosrand Nature Reserve. At the junction with the R551, the R42 continues, via a left turn, west-south-west, bypassing Meyerton, to Vereeniging. The journey from Heidelberg to Vereeniging is 45km.\n\nUpon entering Vereeniging, north of the Three Rivers East suburb, the R42 meets the R54 Road from Vereeniging North & Potchefstroom. They are cosigned southwards up to the next junction. As the R54 continues south-east to Villiers, Free State, the R42 becomes the road west-south-west. It forms the main road through Three Rivers westwards as General Hertzog Road, separating the two sides of the Three Rivers suburb (Three Rivers North from Three Rivers South, as indicated on road signage).\n\nAt Peacehaven, the R42 turns southwards, following the Vereeniging Railway, to reach a junction with the R82 Road. As the R82 enters Gauteng from the Free State (crossing the Vaal River from the east), they are co-signed westwards, crossing under the Vereeniging Railway, up to the 2nd junction (Voortrekker Street). As the R82 becomes Voortrekker Street northwards through Vereeniging Central, the R42 becomes the same road southwards.\n\nAt the Lewis Street junction, Voortrekker Street (R42) becomes Barrage Road and turns west-south-west towards Vanderbijlpark. Near the suburb of Powerville, the R42 meets the R59 Sybrand van Niekerk Freeway (west southbound and east northbound off-ramps only). The R42 continues westwards as the main road through Vanderbijlpark, bypassing Sharpeville and passing the Vaal University of Technology. Just after Vaal Mall, the R42 meets the R57 Golden Highway at a major junction.\n\nFrom the R57 Golden Highway Junction, the R42 goes west for a further 15km, meeting the southern terminus of the R553 Road from Sebokeng. As the road continuing westwards joins the N1 Kroonvaal Toll Route southwards, the R42 Route makes a left turn to become \"Boundary Road\" southwards and continues for 15 kilometres, crossing the Vaal River into the Free State, crossing to the other side of the N1 Toll Highway, to end at another junction with the R59 Road east of the city of Parys, just west of that road's intersection with the N1 Highway.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857132", "title": "Silken Laumann", "text": "Silken Laumann\n\nSilken Suzette Laumann, (born November 14, 1964) is a Canadian champion rower.\n\nLaumann was born in Toronto Township, Ontario, now Mississauga. Starting in 1976, Laumann won a number of awards, including a gold medal in quadruple sculls at the U.S. Championships, two gold medals in single sculls at the Pan American Games, a bronze medal at the 1984 Olympics in the double sculls with her sister Daniele. At the 1988 Olympics, Laumann finished seventh in the double scull. Laumann graduated from the University of Western Ontario in 1989 with a Bachelor of Arts degree. Laumann won a silver medal in single sculls at the 1990 World Championships, and the gold medal at the following year's World Championships.\n\nArguably the most famous incident in Laumann's life was during her training leading up to the 1992 Summer Olympics. One of the odds-on favourites to capture a gold medal, her shell was involved in a collision with the boat of German coxless pair team Colin von Ettinghausen and Peter Hoeltzenbein on May 15, 1992. Despite serious injuries to her leg (in her words, \"I looked at the leg for a few seconds and knew it was serious when my muscle was hanging at my ankle and I could see the bone\"), five operations and a total stay in the hospital of approximately three weeks, Laumann was back on the water training by late June. Her efforts paid off with a bronze medal, and she was subsequently named Canadian of the Year by the Canadian Club in recognition and was selected to carry the Canadian Flag in the closing ceremonies of the Olympics.\n\nAfter a one-year absence to allow the injury to heal further, Laumann resumed competing in 1994, and she won a silver at the 1995 World Championships. She also won a gold medal as part of a quad sculls team at the 1995 Pan American Games, but was subsequently stripped of the medal after testing positive for pseudoephedrine (which she claimed to have accidentally ingested due to a mix-up in what cold medicine she could safely use). Pseudoephedrine's ban was lifted temporarily between 2004 and 2010 before being banned again. Her final competitive race was at the 1996 Summer Olympics, where Silken won a silver medal in single sculls. She formally announced her retirement three years later.\n\nLaumann was inducted into the Canadian Sports Hall of Fame in 1998 and was awarded the Thomas Keller Medal in 1999 for her outstanding international rowing career. In 2004, she was inducted into the Ontario Sports Hall of Fame.\n\nShe now lives in Victoria, British Columbia and works as a public speaker.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1857137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857137", "title": "William Damon", "text": "William Damon\n\nWilliam Damon (born 1944 in Brockton, Massachusetts) is a professor at Stanford University, director of the Stanford Center on Adolescence, and senior fellow at Stanford University's Hoover Institution. He is one of the world's leading researchers on the development of purpose in life and the author of the influential book \"The Path to Purpose\". Damon also helped develop innovative educational methods such as peer collaboration, project-based learning, and the youth charter. Damon is also known for his studies of purposeful philanthropy. His current work includes a scientific study that explores the development of purpose in higher education and a study of family purpose across generations. Dr. Damon writes on intellectual and social development through the lifespan. He is the founding editor of \"New Directions for Child and Adolescent Development\" and editor-in-chief of \"The Handbook of Child Psychology\" (1998 and 2006 editions). Damon has been elected to the National Academy of Education and the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. In January 2018, Damon was named one of \"The 50 Most Influential Psychologists in the World\".\n\nDamon grew up in Brockton, Massachusetts and attended public schools there. His mother Helen was a shoe designer. His father Philip served in the army during World War II and did not return from the war. Damon moved in with his mother's uncle Louis Meyers, who helped raise him and sent him to college.\n\nAfter college, Damon received a doctorate in psychology at the University of California. He then joined the psychology faculty at Clark University as an assistant professor. In the 1990s he was University Professor at Brown, where he founded the Center for the Study of Human Development. In the 1990s Damon also did part-time work with television and film studios to develop educational content for shows such as \"Ghost Writer\" and \"The Big Bag\".\n\nDamon is the author of 18 books and numerous book chapters and articles on education and human development. His work has been influential for research and theory in academic developmental psychology and in the broader society, especially around questions of childrearing and schooling that supports children’s social development. Damon’s editorship of the 5th and 6th editions of the Handbook of Child Psychology places him–along with Carl Murchison, Leonard Carmichael, and Paul Mussen–as one of the great organizers and synthesizers of developmental science. As part of Damon’s commitment to the study of human growth, he also was the founder and long-term editor of the series New Directions for Child and Adolescent Development.\n\nBy the time Damon captured the attention of the popular press with his book \"The Moral Child: Nurturing Children’s Natural Moral Growth\" (1990), he had written and edited seven scholarly books on the social and moral development of children. His early works include \"The Social World of the Child\" (1977), and \"Social and Personality Development: Infancy through Adolescence\" (1983). These studies focused on how the conduct of children and adolescents plays out in real social situations. Damon emphasized that thinking and behavior develop in dynamic relationship with family, peers, teachers, and the larger social world. Moral emotions (such as empathy, shame, and guilt) and the principles of distributive justice (which can be seen in sharing) flourish, or may be smothered, within these relationships.\n\n\"The Moral Child\" marked a shift in Damon’s scholarship. The book surveyed and synthesized the large, complex body of research on moral development and translated it for the general public. In addition to bringing him a new audience, the book articulated the implications of the best research for educational practice and childrearing and family relations.\n\nIn 1995, Damon gained an even larger popular audience with his book, \"Greater Expectations: Overcoming the Culture of Indulgence in Our Homes and Schools\" (1995), which won the Parent’s Choice Book Award and was the subject of wide media coverage. The book proposed that prevailing child-rearing beliefs and practices are not leading to morally mature or competent young people. Damon argued that, “with best intentions,” parents and schools have been in large part responsible for this situation: our culture's unwavering focus on self-esteem and child-centered practices are misguided and reflect a misunderstanding of “the nature of children and their developmental needs. . . .All the commonly accepted standards for young people’s skills and behavior have fallen drastically. Less is expected of the young, and in turn less is received.” To build character and competence requires high standards and expectations. The book received praise from reviewers who agreed with Damon's emphasis on high standards for achievement and service. The book received criticism from some educators who believed that children need more attention and more creative freedom to grow rather than, as Damon wrote, the encouragement to take on hard challenges and to develop internal disciple and good habits.\n\nAnother important focus in Damon’s work has been his study of moral exemplars. His first book on this subject, \"Some Do Care: Contemporary Lives of Moral Commitment\" (1992), written with developmental psychologist Anne Colby, opened up a new perspective on moral development and has been widely cited and built upon in the field. Damon and Colby studied individuals who had shown “a sustained commitment to moral ideals or principles” over many decades of their lives. The authors found a number of qualities that were consistent across the entire group of exemplars, including a sense of certainty about their core moral beliefs, a positive attitude toward hardship and challenge, receptivity toward new ideas and goals, a lifelong capacity for moral growth, and a strong integration of their moral values into their sense of self. This book promoted the \"moral identity\" theory, which maintains that moral commitment and moral action are a function of how important morality is to a person's sense of self. This theory is distinct from theories that emphasize the primary importance of moral reasoning skills (Lawrence Kohlberg), emotions (Jonathan Haidt), or cultural background (Richard Shweder). This work also is known for its case study and interview methodology, which some believe to be more evocative than experimental studies. Damon and Colby followed up their \"Some Do Care\" study of living moral exemplars with some historical case studies of 20th century moral exemplars, described in their 2015 book \"The Power of Ideals\".\n\nDamon's developmental research has been aimed at promoting \"the character and competence of all young people growing up in today’s world . . . [to provide] guidance for parenting, for improved educational practice, and for youth development in a wide variety of community settings.” One study examined young people who exhibit a striking sense of purpose. This research has been expanded in the works of Dr. Kendall Cotton Bronk and Dr. Jenni Menon Mariano. In addition, Damon's youth purpose work is closely connected with the \"positive youth development\" approach pioneered by Peter L. Benson.\n\nIn a series of studies with Howard Gardner and Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi, Damon examined purposeful work in several professional and business settings. Damon wrote about journalism in the book \"Good Work\" and about business success in \"The Moral Advantage\". Damon presented his framework for good work in philanthropy in \"Taking Philanthropy Seriously: Beyond Noble Intentions to Responsible Giving.\" \n\nDamon's book \"The Path to Purpose\" was the result of Damon's twenty-five-year research program on personal identity and character in human development. The book has been widely cited as the first scientific treatment of how young people find fulfilling purposes in life. \"The Path to Purpose\" presents Damon's vision of how schools and parents can help young people find elevated goals to dedicate themselves to, and it contains a critique of prevalent \"short-horizons thinking\" in today's culture that fosters cynicism and anxiety rather than inspiration, optimism, and faith.\n\nDamon is married to Anne Colby with three children, Jesse, Maria, and Caroline. He has a granddaughter Sarah, and a grandson Isak.\n\nJonathan Yardley of the Washington Post called Damon's book Greater Expectations \"A voice of common sense...forthwright, clearheaded and courageous.\" The book won the Parent's Choice Book Award. Damon's book, \"The Path to Purpose: How Young People Find Their Calling in Life\", has received widespread attention. The Library Journal wrote \"This brilliant, involving investigation of the 'failure to launch' phenomenon is essential reading for anyone involved in educating, counseling, and directing today's youth.\" Dawn Friedman of Greater Good magazine, Greater Good Science Center, said, \"The book's important message is often lost in dense, academic language, but it still shines through real-world examples.\" Parker J. Palmer wrote, \"Every thoughtful adult I know is concerned that many American youth seem to lack a sense of purpose in their lives. Here is an important book that can help us move beyond concern to insight, public discourse, and action. In “The Path to Purpose: Helping Our Children Find Their Calling in Life,” Bill Damon examines one of the most important personal and social issues of our time, and does so with a rare mix of sound data, compelling theory, practical recommendations and engaging prose. This is a must-read for parents, teachers, religious leaders, and anyone who cares about the fate of the rising generation.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1857138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857138", "title": "R43 (South Africa)", "text": "R43 (South Africa)\n\nThe R43 is a provincial route in the Western Cape province of South Africa which connects Ceres with Gansbaai via Worcester, Botrivier and Hermanus. It is co-signed with the N2 for nine kilometres near Botrivier.\n\nThe R43 begins at a T-junction on the R46 between Ceres and Wolseley, situated at the southwestern entrance to Michell's Pass. It runs southwards down the Breede River valley to Worcester, where it briefly overlaps the N1. From Worcester it passes around the Brandvlei Dam to Villiersdorp, and then on to meet the N2. The R43 designation overlaps the N2 for 9 kilometers to Botrivier, where it continues south down the Bot River valley and then eastwards along the coast to Hermanus. From Hermanus the route continues up the Klein River valley to Stanford, before turning south again, rejoining the coast at Gansbaai. From Gansbaai it continues along the coast past Pearly Beach to end in open countryside at Die Dam, close to the entrance to the Quoin Point section of the Walker Bay Nature Reserve.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857142", "title": "R44 (South Africa)", "text": "R44 (South Africa)\n\nThe R44 is a provincial route in South Africa that connects Piketberg with Kleinmond via Wellington, Stellenbosch and Somerset West. The coastal section between Kleinmond and Gordon's Bay is a very scenic ocean drive. The section between Gordon's Bay and Stellenbosch via Somerset West is a dual carriageway. The R44 is co-signed with the R46 between Gouda and Hermon in the Berg River valley.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857148", "title": "Burmese glass", "text": "Burmese glass\n\nBurmese glass is a type of opaque colored art glass, shading from yellow to pink. It is found in either the rare original \"shiny\" finish or the more common \"satin\" finish. It is used for table glass and small, ornamental vases and dressing table articles.\n\nIt was made in 1885 by the Mount Washington Glass Company of New Bedford, Massachusetts, USA. \"Burmese glass\" found favor with Queen Victoria. From 1886, the British company of Thomas Webb & Sons was licensed to produce the glass. Their version, known as \"Queen's Burmeseware\", which was used for tableware and decorative glass, often with painted decoration. Burmese was also made after 1970 by the Fenton art glass company.\n\nBurmese is a uranium glass. The formula to produce Burmese Glass contains uranium oxide with tincture of gold added. The uranium oxide produced the inherent soft yellow color of Burmese glass. Because of the added gold, the characteristic pink blush of color of Burmese was fashioned by re-heating the object in the furnace (the \"Glory Hole\"). The length of time in the furnace will determine the intensity of the color. Strangely, if the object is subjected to the heat again, it will return to the original yellow color.\n"}
{"id": "1857154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857154", "title": "R45 (South Africa)", "text": "R45 (South Africa)\n\nThe R45 is a provincial route in South Africa that connects Saldanha with Villiersdorp via Vredenburg, Malmesbury and Paarl. The route is mostly a two-lane wide-shouldered highway, however sections within Paarl and between Vredenburg and Saldanha are dual-carriageways. The R45 is co-signed with the N7 for a short segment north of Malmesbury.\n\nThe north-western terminus of the R45 is in Saldanha on the West Coast. The route initially heads north-north-east for twelve kilometres to Vredenburg. Here it intersects with the R399. The R399 continues straight, while the R45 turns right. The left turn is unsigned, heading to Paternoster. Exiting Vredenburg to the east-south-east, it runs for nine kilometres before crossing the R27. After another seven kilometres, the route passes through Langebaanweg. Running 22 kilometres further on, the route passes through Hopefield. After another 14 kilometres, the R311 branches off to the left, heading east to Moorreesburg. The next major intersection, after ten kilometres, is the R307, branching to the right to Darling. The R45 continues for a further 31 kilometres to meet the N7.\n\nThe two roads continue south towards Malmesbury together for 2,5 kilometres, where the R45 is given off at an interchange and heads south-east through the town. After three kilometres, the route meets the R302 at a four-way intersection. The R302 continues south towards Durbanville, while the R45 turns left, exiting the town to the east-north-east. After four kilometres, the R46 branches off to the left, heading to Riebeek-Kasteel. The route veers south-east, running for 30 kilometres to intersect with the R44. It then runs south for five kilometres before turning right to intersect at a T-junction with a north-south road. The north road is unsigned, while the R45 turns left towards Paarl. Entering Paarl from the north, this road ends at a t-junction with the R45 turning right for one block and then left at a four-way intersection. Continuing for another kilometre, it accepts the R101 from the left, becoming co-signed. These two routes continue together for five kilometres, exit Paarl from the south, interchanging with the N1 before the R45 leaves to the left, heading south again.\n\nAfter ten kilometres, the R310 is given off to the right, heading to Pniel and Stellenbosch. The R45 then veers east, reaching Wemmershoek. Here, the R301 leaves to the left, heading north. Continuing east, it passes through Franschhoek after six kilometres. The road ends at a t-junction, but the R45 continues by turning left, entering the Franschhoek Pass. After 28 kilometres, the road again ends at a T-junction. The R45 turns left here, with the right turn signed as the R321 over the Theewaterskloof Dam to Grabouw. The south-eastern terminus of the R45 is reached at a T-junction in Villiersdorp after another eight kilometres. The road continuing straight is then signposted as the R43 north to Worcester, while the right turn is also designated as the R43, south to the N2 between Bot River and Caledon.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857155", "title": "Destroyer Command", "text": "Destroyer Command\n\nDestroyer Command is a naval simulation released by Ubi Soft in 2002 and developed by the now-defunct Ultimation Inc.\n\nThe game placed the player in command of a Destroyer during World War II, featuring campaigns from both the Pacific War and the Battle of the Atlantic. Customized missions may be played and players can select the opponent's forces and their own. Players can also have the chance to choose the difficulty rating in different games by adjusting the different realism ratings .\n\nThe game features two campaigns that include the entire Pacific and Atlantic warfare with 20 missions each. There are 20 predefined historical missions, for example, the 'Battle of Savo Island', additionally to some training missions, and automatically generated, customized missions. Classes of Destroyers that can be commanded by the player are , , , , , , , , , , , , , and the es.\n\nWeaponry that can be controlled by the player are the dual purpose 5\"/38 caliber gun, the 4-inch/50 SP gun, the light guns Bofors 40 mm gun and Oerlikon 20 mm cannon, 200 to 600 lb depth charges, and 21-inch torpedoes.\n\nThe game was developed by the Ultimation Inc. and released by Ubisoft in 2002. Due to problems with the game a patch (ver 4.10) was released in March 2002 by the developer for download.\n\nAfter release, instability with the multiplayer feature was found to be commonplace, yet Ubisoft never resolved this issue by releasing another official patch. While in 2002 Ubisoft had ended the official support, they authorized and enabled the game's community at Subsim.com to fix the game themselves by giving them the source code. The fan community raised over $7000 for an unofficial patch development project called \"Projekt Messerwetzer\" which ultimately fixed the issues.\n\nBefore the release of the patch, the game received \"mixed\" reviews according to the review aggregation website Metacritic.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1857156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857156", "title": "Kannazuki no Miko", "text": "Kannazuki no Miko\n\nThe series was adapted into a 12-episode anime by TNK and Geneon Entertainment, which aired in Japan from October to December 2004. A drama CD, based on the anime version, was released on November 25, 2004 by Geneon. In North America the manga was licensed by Tokyopop and the anime by Geneon USA; the anime license was transferred to Sentai Filmworks in 2009. In 2010, the anime aired on the Anime Network as \"Destiny of the Shrine Maiden\".\n\nHimeko Kurusugawa and Chikane Himemiya are two high-school girls at the prestigious \"Ototachibana Academy\" in the fictional Japanese town of Mahoroba. They are also the reincarnations of the solar and lunar mikos. When their ancient enemy the Orochi (the eight-headed Yamata no Orochi of Japanese folklore) rises once more the girls' long-sealed personas awaken to defend the world. The Orochi awakens on the first day of October (\"Kannazuki\", \"the godless month,\" in the traditional Japanese lunar calendar), Himeko and Chikane's shared birthday. The first Orochi who tries to kill one of the mikos is Sōma Ōgami, Himeko's childhood friend (who is in love with her). However, after a blinding flash of light brings him to his senses, he rejects his fate and vows to defend Himeko against the other Orochi. The mikos must awaken \"Ame no Murakumo\" to combat the threat, while Sōma repels the Orochi's efforts to kill them.\n\nThe series' villain is , a god who wants to replace the world of humanity with a place of darkness and nihilism. Like its counterpart in Japanese mythology, the Orochi in \"Kannazuki no Miko\" has eight heads (its eight disciples, also known as ). Each has a mecha, an \"other self\" for the Orochi's body, with its spirit appearing as a bottomless vortex of darkness. The Orochi's powers are devastating, and only \"Ame no Murakumo\" can undo their destruction after its defeat.\n\nEach disciple has exaggerated individual characteristics. Orochi gave its followers great physical strength and endurance, a limited capacity for teleportation and levitation and an individual power (or weapon). If a disciple can suppress the rage caused by Orochi, they can use their powers against it; however, Orochi severely punishes those who resist it. The god chooses its followers from those who have experienced great pain in their lives and have surrendered to despair; they include a sociopathic criminal, an unintelligent brute, a former Japanese idol, an anti-social manga artist, a catgirl, a seemingly traitorous friend and a disillusioned nun, with only one of them, the criminal's brother, being able to temporarily resist the god's influence completely. They are uncooperative, and do not coordinate attacks on the miko until halfway through the series. By the series' end the followers are restored, with no memory of their association with Yamata no Orochi.\n\n\nThe \"Kannazuki no Miko\" manga, written by the manga group Kaishaku, was first serialized in the Japanese mangazine \"Shōnen Ace\" (published by Kadokawa Shoten) in 2004. The series' 14 chapters were bound in two \"tankōbon\" volumes. It was licensed in North America by Tokyopop, which published both volumes in English in 2008.\n\nThe anime adaptation was produced by Geneon Entertainment and animated by TNK. It was directed by Tetsuya Yanagisawa, with music by Mina Kubota and character designs by Maki Fujii. The opening theme was \"Re-sublimity\" and the ending theme \"Agony\", composed and arranged by Kazuya Takase and performed with lyrics by Kotoko. The insert song, \"Suppuration -core-\" (also sung by Kotoko), was used in episode five.\n\nThe 12-episode series was broadcast in Japan first on Chiba TV from October 1 to December 17, 2004. The episodes were released on six DVDs from December 22, 2004 to May 25, 2005. It was licensed in North America by Geneon USA, which released the series on three DVDs in 2006. The license was transferred from Geneon USA to Sentai Filmworks in 2009; the latter reissued the series in a DVD box set on August 25, 2009. It is licensed in France by Dybex, in Poland by Vision Film Distribution and in Taiwan by Proware Multimedia. In 2010, the series was shown on the Anime Network as \"Destiny of the Shrine Maiden\".\n\nOn November 25, 2004 \"Kannazuki no Miko drama CD\" was released in Japan by Geneon, based on the anime version of \"Kannazuki no Miko\". The series was presented on an Internet radio program, , on i-revo TE-A room from October 2004 to March 2005. Voice actors included Noriko Shitaya (Himeko) and Junji Majima (Sōma Ōgami), who are currently hosting .\n\n\"Kannazuki no Miko\" received mixed reviews. Carlo Santos of Anime News Network (ANN) criticized volume one of the series:\n\nEverything about \"Kannazuki no Miko\" says instant fan favorite, but somehow it adds up to less than the sum of its parts. Changes in scene and mood don't seem to connect, characters behave without rhyme or reason, and even thrilling action scenes are hampered by sloppy animation. There are lots of little things to like about the series, but as a whole, you have to wonder—\"What? That's it?\" ... If \"Kannazuki no Miko\" were split into two different series, it might be easier to enjoy the separate story threads.\n\nHowever, the network credited the anime for \"so many striking visual elements\" and \"effective designs\". The soundtrack was \"especially effective during dramatic character moments\", but its battle music was criticized. Carlo Santos added that while volume one of the series \"promises something to suit every anime fetish ...if sensible storytelling and deep characters are what turn you on, then this isn't the series to go to.\"\n\nHe also criticized the second volume as \"overblown\" and melodramatic, with too much \"[a]ngst, rage and sentimentality\". However, \"the voice actors in the English dub still manage to express the sentiments of their characters\", and \"the middle episodes of \"Kannazuki no Miko\" represent a genuine turning point in the series: the romance and adventure storylines, once so disconnected, come together and swing the cosmic battle in a new direction.\"\n\nIn her review of the series, Erica Friedman (president of Yuricon) sharply criticized the story for its rape scene and its manga ending (in which Chikane and Himeko are reincarnated as sisters and lovers), considering it poorly written. She asks why, \"if both [Sōma] and Chikane love Himeko so much, do they allow her to be bullied, outcast and victimized instead of stepping up and claiming their friendship publicly?\" Friedman wrote that Himeko \"allows the whims of others to take control of her life, she indulges them by not having an opinion of her own, she naively forgives even the basest behavior, and she never once takes an interest in the truth of what is going on\"; the story actually revolves around \"the love triangle and Himeko's victimization by herself and the people who profess to love her\". Friedman said, \"Tokyopop's team did as good a job with the material as they could. It's not a good story, nor is it well-drawn, but they made it make as much sense as possible. I applaud them for that. It's not as easy as they made it look.\" In her volume two review, she said Tokyopop did a \"very superior job with this series\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1857161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857161", "title": "R46 (South Africa)", "text": "R46 (South Africa)\n\nThe R46 is a provincial route in South Africa that connects Malmesbury with Touws River, via Riebeek-Kasteel, Tulbagh and Ceres. The R46 is co-signed with the R44 between Gouda and Hermon in the Berg River valley.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857163", "title": "Granodiorite", "text": "Granodiorite\n\nGranodiorite () is a phaneritic-textured intrusive igneous rock similar to granite, but containing more plagioclase feldspar than orthoclase feldspar. According to the QAPF diagram, granodiorite has a greater than 20% quartz by volume, and between 65% to 90% of the feldspar is plagioclase. A greater amount of plagioclase would designate the rock as tonalite.\n\nGranodiorite is felsic to intermediate in composition. It is the intrusive igneous equivalent of the extrusive igneous dacite. It contains a large amount of sodium (Na) and calcium (Ca) rich plagioclase, potassium feldspar, quartz, and minor amounts of muscovite mica as the lighter colored mineral components. Biotite and amphiboles often in the form of hornblende are more abundant in granodiorite than in granite, giving it a more distinct two-toned or overall darker appearance. Mica may be present in well-formed hexagonal crystals, and hornblende may appear as needle-like crystals. Minor amounts of oxide minerals such as magnetite, ilmenite, and ulvöspinel, as well as some sulfide minerals may also be present.\n\nOn average, the upper continental crust has the same composition as granodiorite.\n\nGranodiorite is a plutonic igneous rock, formed by intrusion of silica-rich magma, which cools in batholiths or stocks below the Earth's surface. It is usually only exposed at the surface after uplift and erosion have occurred.\n\nThe name comes from two related rocks to which granodiorite is an intermediate: granite and diorite. The \"gran-\" root comes from the Latin \"grānum\" for \"grain\", an English language derivative. Diorite is named after the contrasting colors of the rock.\n\nPlymouth Rock is a glacial erratic boulder of granodiorite. The Sierra Nevada mountains contain large sections of granodiorite.\n\nGranodiorite was quarried at Mons Claudianus in the Red Sea Governorate in eastern Egypt from the 1st century AD to the mid-3rd century AD. Much of the quarried stone was transported to Rome for use in major projects such as the Pantheon and Hadrian's Villa. Additionally, granodiorite was used for the Rosetta Stone. \n\nThe extent of Egyptian granodiorite masonry is unclear. Egypt's 6000-year history makes determining the period of usage difficult as well. Perhaps like porphyry, it was ignored by the successive dynasties of Egypt and only heavily mined during Ptolemaic or Roman times. This is evidenced by the fact that most examples of granodiorite sculpture seem to have come from later dates. However, its presence in the Rosetta Stone implies that they had considerable experience with it and the fact that only newer artifacts are found may simply be because earlier pieces were lost.\n\nGranodiorite is most often used as crushed stone for road building. It is also used as construction material, building facade, and paving, and as an ornamental stone. The Rosetta Stone is a stele made from granodiorite. The portico columns of the Pantheon in Rome are formed from single shafts of granodiorite, each 12 metres tall by 1.5 metres in diameter.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857164", "title": "R49 (South Africa)", "text": "R49 (South Africa)\n\nThe R49 (also sometimes known as the R47) is a provincial route in South Africa that connects Mafikeng with the Botswana border at Kopfontein near Gaborone, via Zeerust.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857165", "title": "Alison Nicholas", "text": "Alison Nicholas\n\nAlison Nicholas, (born 6 March 1962) is an English professional golfer.\n\nNicholas was born in Gibraltar. She was educated at the School of St Mary and St Anne (now Abbots Bromley School for Girls). She enjoyed a very successful amateur career in England. She started playing golf at the age of 17 and won the 1982 and 1983 Northern Girls Amateur Open. Nicholas was the 1983 British Amateur Stroke Play champion. In 1983, Nicholas won the Yorkshire Ladies County Championship.\n\nNicholas turned professional in 1984 and joined the Ladies European Tour in the same year. She joined the LPGA Tour in 1989.\n\nNicholas won the British Women's Open in 1987, when it was recognised as a major championship by the Ladies European Tour only, and the 1997 U.S. Women's Open.\n\nAt her retirement at the end of the 2004 season, Nicholas had won 12 events on the Ladies European Tour. She topped the European Tour Order of Merit in 1997 and finished in the top-ten fifteen times in 16 seasons between 1985 and 2000. She also won four times on the LPGA Tour, between 1995 and 1999, including winning the U.S. Women's Open in 1997. In 1992, she won both the Western Australian Open and the Malaysian Open.\n\nShe won the 1991 Vivien Saunders Trophy for lowest stroke average (71.71). In 1997, she became the Sunday Times Sportswomen of the Year, was awarded The Association of Golf Writers Trophy and was voted LET Players' Player of the Year, 1997 Evening Mail Sports Personality of the Year and 1997 Midlands Sports Personality of the Year.\n\nIn 1998, she was named a Member of the Order of the British Empire in the Queen's Birthday Honours List for \"services to women's golf\", and in 2002 became a Life Member of the Ladies European Tour.\n\nNicholas was a member of the European Solheim Cup team in 1990, 1992, 1994, 1996, 1998 and 2000 forming a formidable partnership with Laura Davies. She was Vice Captain in 2003. In 2007, Nicholas was the captain for the 2009 and 2011 European Solheim Cup teams.\n\nLPGA Tour playoff record (0–1)\n\n\nProfessional\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1857168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857168", "title": "Ajmer Rode", "text": "Ajmer Rode\n\nAjmer Rode is a Canadian author writing in Punjabi as well as in English. His first work was non-fiction \"Vishva Di Nuhar\" on Albert Einstein's Relativity in dialogue form inspired by Plato's \"Republic\". Published by the Punjabi University in 1966, the book initiated a series of university publications on popular science and sociology. Rode's first poetry book \"Surti\" influenced by science and philosophical explorations was experimental and in words of critic Dr. Attar Singh 'has extended the scope of Punjabi language and given a new turn to Punjabi poetry'. His most recent poetry book \"Leela\", more than 1000 pages long and co-authored with Navtej Bharati, is counted among the outstanding Punjabi literary works of the twentieth century.\n\nRode is regarded the founder of Punjabi theatre in Canada. He wrote and directed the first Punjabi play \"Dooja Passa\" dealing with racism faced by minorities. This was followed by his full-length play \"Komagata Maru\" based on a significant racial incident in British Columbia's history. Though it lacked professional direction the play generated considerable publicity inspiring theatrical interests in the Indian-Canadian community. His most recent English play \"Rebirth of Gandhi\" was produced at Surrey Arts Centre Canada) in 2004 to a full house.\n\nAmong Rode's significant translation is \"The Last Flicker\" an English rendering of a modern Punjabi classic novel \"Marhi Da Diva\" by Gurdial Singh who recently won the Gyan Peeth, India's highest literary award. The translation was published by the Indian Academy of Letters in 1993. Currently Rode is member of an international team of translators rendering Sufi songs from Urdu, Punjabi and Hindi into English; the project based in Los Angeles aims to produce a large multilingual book of original and translated songs sung by late Nusrat Fateh Ali Khan, the legendary Sufi singer of the twentieth century.\n\nAn active member of the Writers' Union of Canada, Ajmer Rode was on its national council in 1994 and later chaired its Racial Minority Writers Committee; Currently he is co-ordinator of Vancouver's Punjabi Writers Forum, the oldest and influential Punjabi writers association in Canada. He has been founding member of several other Indian-Canadian literary and performing arts associations including Watno Dur Art Foundation, and India Music Society founded to promote classical Indian music in North America. He was the first secretary of Samaanta, an organization to oppose violence against women and is now on the advisory board of Chetna, a Vancouver-based organization promoting minority rights and opposing Casteism. He has served on Canada Council and British Columbia Arts Council juries to award literary grants.\nRode was given the \"Best Overseas Punjabi Author\" award by the Punjab Languages Dept, India in 1994. Guru Nanak Dev University honored him with the \"Prominent Citizen (literature)\" award and the G.N. Engg. College with the \"Poet of Life\" award the same year. In Canada he has been honored with awards for Punjabi theatre and translation.\n\n\nproduced by Abbotsford Community Services, 2007\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1857169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857169", "title": "Research station", "text": "Research station\n\nA research station is a facility that is built for the purpose of conducting scientific research. \n\nResearch station sites might include remote areas of the world, oceans, as well as outer space, such as the International Space Station. \nSome research stations are located in the Arctic, such as the Northeast Science Station, McGill Arctic Research Station and Himadri Station. Some stations in the Arctic are manned drifting ice stations, built on the ice of the high latitudes of the Arctic Ocean.\n\nMany nations also have research stations located in Antarctica; Showa Station, Halley and Troll are examples.\n\nThere are also various research stations doing field ecological research such as the Tiputini Biodiversity Station in the Ecuadorian Amazon, Comoé National Park Research Station in the Savannas of North-eastern Côte d'Ivoire or the Gombe Research Station in Tanzania, where famous chimpanzee research was conducted by Jane Goodall.\n"}
{"id": "1857170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857170", "title": "R48 (South Africa)", "text": "R48 (South Africa)\n\nThe R48 is a provincial route in South Africa that connects De Aar with Petrusburg on the N8.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857177", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857177", "title": "Racing Victoria", "text": "Racing Victoria\n\nRacing Victoria Limited, as the governing principal racing authority, has responsibilities to develop, encourage, promote and manage the conduct of Thoroughbred horseracing in the State of Victoria, Australia. It assumed this responsibility, from the Victoria Racing Club, on 19 December 2001.\n\nIt was established with the support of Country Racing Victoria, Melbourne Racing Club, Moonee Valley Racing Club, Victoria Racing Club, other racing industry bodies, and the Victorian State Government.\n\nRacing Victoria represents the Victorian Thoroughbred industry in dealings with bodies such as the Australian Racing Board, and is responsible for the marketing of Victorian Thoroughbred racing.\n\nThe constitutional objectives of Racing Victoria include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1857180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857180", "title": "Tiny Ron Taylor", "text": "Tiny Ron Taylor\n\nRonald \"Tiny Ron\" Taylor (November 21, 1947 - November 28, 2019) was an American film actor and former basketball player, known for his work in feature films such as \"The Rocketeer\" (1991) and \"\" (1994), and in television series such as \"\", \"\", and as Al, the tall police detective whose face is never seen, in the \"Police Squad!\" and \"The Naked Gun\" franchise. His roles tended to exploit his 7 ft (2.13 m) frame.\n\nTaylor was born in Torrance, California. He attended North Torrance High School and graduated from the University of Southern California.\n\nTaylor was drafted by the Seattle SuperSonics in the second round of the 1969 NBA Draft, but never played in the NBA, instead playing in the American Basketball Association. He played for four teams from 1969 to 1972: the New York Nets and Washington Caps (1969–70); the Virginia Squires (1970–71); and the Pittsburgh Condors (1971–72). He played 75 of his 77 career games in his first season, 72 of them for the Nets. He scored 371 total points (4.8 ppg), 294 total rebounds (3.8 rpg), and 68 assists (0.9 apg). He also played some basketball in Austria before deciding to be an actor.\n\nWhen Taylor applied to the Screen Actors Guild, he learned that the name \"Ron Taylor\" was already in use by another actor. His acting teacher suggested he use \"Tiny Ron\", figuring that in a niche category populated by actors with such screen names as \"André the Giant,\" the name \"Tiny Ron\" would stand out.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1857194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857194", "title": "Leonetto Cappiello", "text": "Leonetto Cappiello\n\nLeonetto Cappiello (9 April 1875 – 2 February 1942) was an Italian and French poster art designer and painter, who mainly lived and worked in Paris. He is now often called 'the father of modern advertising' because of his innovation in poster design. The early advertising poster was characterized by a painterly quality as evidenced by early poster artists Jules Chéret, Alfred Choubrac and Hugo D'Alesi. Cappiello, like other young artists, worked in a way that was almost the opposite of his predecessors. He was the first poster artist to use bold figures popping out of black backgrounds, a startling contrast to the posters early norm.\n\nHe was born in Livorno in Tuscany. He would die in Cannes in France.\nCappiello had no formal training in art. The first exhibition of his work was in 1892, when a painting was displayed at the municipal museum in Florence. Some of his paintings are on display in the Museo Civico Giovanni Fattori in Livorno.\n\nCappiello started his career as a caricaturist illustrating in journals like Le Rire, \"Le Cri de Paris\", \"Le Sourire\", \"L'Assiette au Beurre\", \"La Baionnette\", \"Femina\", and others. His first album of caricatures, \"Lanterna Magica,\" was made in 1896. In 1898, he moved to Paris, and his caricatures were published in \"Le Rire\" for the first time.\n\nIn 1902, a 24-page book of his caricatures was published entitled Gens du Monde ‘people of high society’ for the magazine L’Assiette au Beurre. The following year a 38-page book entitled Le Théâtre de Cappiello ‘the theatre of Cappiello’ was published for a special issue of Le Théâtre magazine, this included captions written by theatre critics. Cappiello began to move away from caricature work favouring posters. In 1905 a final publication 70 Dessins de Cappiello ’70 drawings by Cappiello’ by H. Floury, included black and white lithographic prints, as well as a handful of colour images produce by the process of pochoir. The technique was popular at the time as a way of adding colour to an image relatively cheaply, and would involve colour being hand painted onto an image with stencils.\n\nCappiello made his name during the poster boom period in the early 20th century, with designs markedly different from premier poster artist Jules Chéret. His first poster, for the newspaper Frou-Frou, was made in 1899.\n\nCappiello’s career as a poster artist began in earnest in 1900 when he began a contract with the printer Pierre Vercasson. In this period, the printers would act as an agent for artists and commission work to them. Vercasson had a print house, and his goal was to bring vibrancy and colour to the streets of Paris, he wanted the posters that he produced to stand out from the rest and attract lucrative new advertisers to his agency. Of course living in Paris, he was aware of the current art scene, and had seen many examples of Cappiello’s work, including a small number of posters already produced and in particular those for Le Frou-Frou. He knew that Cappiello had the potential to be exactly what he was looking for. The relationship commenced with the arrangement that Vercasson would find the clients and brief Cappiello on the product. It was then up to Cappiello to produce a sketch for the client for which he would receive the fee of 500 francs, a good amount at the time. Once the design had been approved by the client a full size design would be produced for the poster at a size of 1x1.4m, an old French paper standard known as the Double Grand Aigle. Cappiello would also be responsible for ensuring the successful transfer of the design onto lithographic stone ready for printing.\n\nHe was married to Suzanne Meyer Cappiello in 1901 and his brother Oreste was married to Camille, sister of the painter Alfredo Müller.\n\nBetween 1901 and 1914, he created several hundred posters in a style that revolutionised the art of poster design. Cappiello redesigned the \"fin-de-siècle\" pictures into images more relevant to the faster pace of the 20th century. During this period, Cappiello continued as a caricaturist. During World War I, Cappiello worked as an interpreter in Italy.\n\nAfter the First World War Cappiello returned to producing posters. His first meeting with Devambez in 1918 marked the start of a long discussion: three years later he signed an exclusive contract with the Paris publisher for whom he designed now famous icons: such as Kub, Campari, Parapluie Revel, Pirelli, Chocolat Klaus and Poudre de Luzy, and the famous entertainer Mistinguett at the Casino de Paris. Unlike Vercasson, Devambez did not have its own print house, and had the posters printed at a number of large printers. The agency concentrated on finding new clients from across Europe, and successfully spread Cappiello’s celebrated works across the continent. He remained with the agency until 1936.\n\nOver the course of his career Cappiello produced more than 530 advertising posters. Today, his original posters are still collected, sold at auction and by dealers around the world.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1857196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857196", "title": "AF-heap", "text": "AF-heap\n\nIn computer science, the AF-heap is a type of priority queue for integer data, an extension of the fusion tree using an atomic heap proposed by M. L. Fredman and D. E. Willard.\n\nUsing an AF-heap, it is possible to perform insert or decrease-key operations and delete-min operations on machine-integer keys in time . This allows Dijkstra's algorithm to be performed in the same time bound on graphs with edges and vertices, and leads to a linear time algorithm for minimum spanning trees, with the assumption for both problems that the edge weights of the input graph are machine integers in the transdichotomous model.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857198", "title": "R50 (South Africa)", "text": "R50 (South Africa)\n\nThe R50 is a provincial route in South Africa that connects Pretoria with Standerton via Delmas.\n\nThe R50 begins in Pretoria, Tshwane (Administrative Capital of South Africa) near the suburbs of Erasmusrand and Waterkloof Ridge, at an intersection with the N1 Danie Joubert Freeway (Pretoria Eastern Bypass). North of the freeway, it is designated as the M9 Metropolitan Route of Pretoria and named Rigel Avenue. It begins as Delmas Road and heads south-east, passing Wingate Park and becoming the eastern border of the Rietvlei Nature Reserve. The R50 heads south-east to Bapsfontein, Ekurhuleni. The distance from the N1 intersection in Pretoria to Bapsfontein is 30km.\n\nUpon entering Bapsfontein, the R50 meets the R25 Route from Kempton Park. They are cosigned as one road up to the four-way junction of Bapsfontein, where they meet the northern terminus of the R51 Route from Daveyton/Springs. As the R25 becomes the road to the north-east at that junction towards Bronkhorstspruit, the R50 remains as the south-easterly road.\n\nThe R50 runs another 30 km to the town of Delmas, crossing the border between Gauteng and Mpumalanga. Just before entering Delmas, the R50 meets the N12 Freeway between Johannesburg and Witbank. In Delmas, The R50 meets the R42 Route from Bronkhorstspruit. They are one road for the next 5km south-east, intersecting with the R555 Road during this time.\n\nSouth of Delmas, The R42 becomes its own road, heading south-west towards Nigel, Gauteng, leaving the R50 as the south-easterly road. The road continues east-south-east. After meeting the R580, the R50 turns directly south towards the town of Leandra. The journey from Delmas to Leandra is 45 km.\n\nIn Leandra, the R50 intersects with the R29 Road in Leandra Central and the N17 Highway a few kilometers south of the town centre (Both roads coming from Springs and Johannesburg in the west). The R50 journeys another 80km, intersecting with the R547 Road near Brendan Village (staggered junction; cosigned for a few kilometers), to the town of Standerton.\n\nIn Standerton, the R50 reaches its south-eastern terminus by meeting the passing R546 Route from Evander, the passing R23 Route from Heidelberg and the south-western terminus of the R39 Route from Ermelo.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857203", "title": "Virtua Striker", "text": "Virtua Striker\n\nThe Virtua Striker (バーチャストライカー in Japanese) video games are arcade-style football/soccer sports games by Sega. Originally developed by Sega AM2, the series moved to Amusement Vision with \"Virtua Striker 3\". But the series moved to Sega Sports Design R&D Dept. with \"Virtua Striker 4\". The original \"Virtua Striker\", released in 1994, was the first association football game to use 3D computer graphics, and was also notable for its early use of texture mapping, along with Sega's own racing video game \"Daytona USA\". Only two games in the series have been released on home consoles - Virtua Striker 2 for the Sega Dreamcast, and Virtua Striker 2002 for the Nintendo GameCube.\n\nThe main arcade series includes:\n\nThe original \"Virtua Striker\" game received Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 ports, distributed respectively through Xbox Live Arcade and PlayStation Network, in February 2013, exclusively for Japan.\n\nThe original \"Virtua Striker\" used Sega's Sega Model 2 hardware. The \"Virtua Striker 2\" series run on Sega Model 3, with the exception of \"Virtua Striker 2 ver. 2000\", which appeared on the Dreamcast-based NAOMI system. \"Virtua Striker 3\" was released for the NAOMI 2; subsequent installments (\"Virtua Striker 2002\" and \"Virtua Striker 4\") used the GameCube-based Triforce hardware. \"Virtua Striker 4\" added a card system and mobile phone syncing, allowing players to configure strategies and formations on the move.\n\nThe game consists of a single-elimination knock-out tournament with 16 teams (like in the knock-out stage of the FIFA World Cup), with each match lasting two minutes by default, plus injury time and, if the match ends in a draw, one extra minute of sudden death. If the draw persists, penalty shootouts are used to decide the winner. In the console versions and \"Virtua Striker 4\", matches are divided in two halves of one and a half minute each, with substitutions allowed at half time. \"Virtua Striker 4\" also adds a qualifying match, which grants access to the tournament proper if won.\n\nThe game operates with three buttons: one for passing (which is also used for sliding tackles when not in possession of the ball), one for long balls (which automatically crosses if the player is running parallel to the box) and one for shots, which can be charged or, if the player is on the receiving end of a cross, tapped for a header or volley finish. The Start button is used to alternate between each team's two available tactical schemes before and during a match (except for the first game, which had no such mechanic, as each team came with its own preset formation) - while each has an offensive or defensive mentality, the formation of choice before kick-off will influence in which formation the team will adopt a neutral mentality. \"Virtua Striker 4\" also added a sprint button.\n\nThe series has been ported to consoles on two occasions:\"Virtua Striker 2\" for the Dreamcast (released in Japan and Europe as \"Virtua Striker 2 ver. 2000.1\") and Virtua Striker 2002 for the GameCube (\"Virtua Striker 3 ver. 2002\" in Japan). Virtua Striker was also featured as a minigame in Sega's PlayStation 2 EyeToy-based game, \"Sega Superstars\".\n\nThe first three games of the series (counting also the \"Virtua Striker 2\" revisions, but not the \"2002\" revision of \"Virtua Striker 3\") feature a hidden team called FC Sega, made up of the game's developing staff, which always faces the player's team in special matches after the player wins the final match, and can be selected through a special cheat code.\n\n\"Virtua Striker 2\" features two other hidden teams in addition to FC Sega: MVP Yukichan and MVP Royal Genki (exclusive to \"Version 2000.1\"), both of which consist of strange, cartoonish characters. The original team selection BGM from the first game also exists, and can be heard through a special code.\n\nIn \"Virtua Striker 3\" and the GameCube port, \"ver. 2002\", there is an unlockable team called FC Sonic. This team is made up of Sonic, Tails, Knuckles, Amy, Dr. Eggman (who plays as the goalkeeper), four Neutral Chao, a Dark Chao, and a Hero Chao, and has Sonic's creator, Yuji Naka, as manager.\n\n\"Virtua Striker 4\" released on the Triforce arcade platform in 2005, and was updated in 2006. It had online play with ALL.Net.\n\nA critic for \"Next Generation\" applauded the original \"Virtua Striker\" as both \"excellent to play and watch.\" He cited the smooth and accurate control, realistic player moves, camera which consistently zooms in or out to the perfect frame at every moment of play, \"gorgeous\" texture-mapped players and backgrounds, and realistically strong defense. He gave it four out of five stars.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1857208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857208", "title": "Symlink race", "text": "Symlink race\n\nA symlink race is a kind of software security vulnerability that results from a program creating files in an insecure manner. A malicious user can create a symbolic link to a file not otherwise accessible to them. When the privileged program creates a file of the same name as the symbolic link, it actually creates the linked-to file instead, possibly inserting content desired by the malicious user (see example below), or even provided by the malicious user (as input to the program).\n\nIt is called a \"race\" because in its typical manifestation, the program checks to see if a file by that name already exists; if it does not exist, the program then creates the file. An attacker must create the link in the interval between the check and when the file is created.\n\nNote: Another kind of symlink race can happen with AV products that decide they will quarantine or delete a suspicious file, and then go ahead and do that. During the interval between decision and action, malicious software can replace the suspicious file with a system or AV file that the malicious software wants gone. Reference: \n\nIn this naive example, the Unix program codice_1 is codice_2. Its function is to retrieve information for the accounts specified by the user. For \"efficiency\", it sorts the requested accounts into a temporary file (codice_3 naturally) before making the queries.\n\nThe directory codice_4 is world-writable. Malicious user Mallory creates a symbolic link to the file codice_5 named codice_3. Then, Mallory invokes codice_1 with codice_8 as the requested account. The program creates the (temporary) file codice_3 (really creating codice_5) and puts information about the requested account (e.g. codice_11) in it. It removes the temporary file (merely removing the symbolic link).\n\nNow the codice_5 contains password information, which (if it even happens to be in the proper format) is the incantation necessary to allow anyone to use codice_13 to log into the computer as the superuser.\n\nAlso in some Unix-systems there is a special flag codice_14 for codice_15 to prevent opening a file via a symbolic-link (dangling or otherwise). It's become standardized in POSIX.1-2008.\n\nThe POSIX C standard library function codice_16 can be used to safely create temporary files. For shell scripts, the system utility does the same thing.\n"}
{"id": "1857216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857216", "title": "Hyundai Tiburon", "text": "Hyundai Tiburon\n\nThe Hyundai Tiburon () known as the Hyundai Coupé (현대 쿠페) in the European Market is a sports coupe that was produced by the South Korean manufacturer Hyundai from 1996 to 2008.\n\nThe name \"Tiburon\", a slight variation of \"tiburón\", the Spanish word for \"shark\", is the name given to the North American, Australian, New Zealand, South African, and Austrian production of the vehicle. It was known as the Hyundai Coupe in some European markets and Indonesia. It had been branded as the Tuscani (투스카니) and Turbulence (터뷸런스) in the home South Korean market.\n\nThe model had been released in two generations (RC) over its lifespan and in that time these generations have been subject to periodic facelifts. These facelifts have attempted to keep the car up to date with various safety improvements and a mixture of changes to exterior and interior styling. The RD Tiburon was in production for 5 years from 1996 to 2001. The GK Tiburon was introduced in 2002 (as a 2003 model) and ended production in 2008 before being replaced by the Hyundai Veloster.\n\nTiburon first began production in late 1996. This generation took several design cues from the \"HCD-II Epoch\" concept that debuted at the 1993 Detroit Auto Show. It was available in a few foreign markets with engine choices of either 1.6L or 1.8L. In the United States, the Tiburon was first offered in 1997 with base models using the Elantra's 1.8L engine while the upscale FX received a 2.0L four-cylinder engine. The 2.0L was rated at at the crankshaft (the car's manual specifies at the flywheel). Base weight was around 2,550 lb (1,150 kg), giving the RD Tiburon a higher power-to-weight ratio than the newer GK 2.0L. The 2.0L produces a 0–60 mph time of ~8.3, with a 1/4 mile time of ~16 seconds. In 1998 the Tiburon lost its weaker 1.8L engine, giving both models the 2.0L. All versions of the Tiburon manufactured from 1996 to 2002 are known as \"RD\" Tiburons. The MacPherson strut suspension was co-developed with Porsche.\n\nIts appearance was a revival of coke bottle styling, popular during the 1960s and 1970s. There were various options, with or without ABS, 2 airbags, leather, and sunroof.\n\nVarious special editions were also produced, focusing primarily on cosmetic modifications and improvements. In the UK, Hyundai's entrance into the Formula 2 World Rally Championship saw the release of the \"F2\" and \"F2 Evolution\" models in 1998 and 1999 respectively.\n\nThe \"F2\" (non Evolution) was released in July 1998. Only available in the UK, the \"F2\" model sold approximately 1100 units in total during 1998 and 1999, (making the \"F2\" a slightly rarer model than the \"F2 Evolution\" which followed). An enhanced version of the UK-spec 2.0 SE, the \"F2\" was available in a choice of three colours; Black (solid), Bright Silver (metallic), or Racing Blue (mica). (This latter colour, a vivid bright blue, was unique to the \"F2\"; no other Hyundai models were ever made available in Racing Blue (mica)). The \"F2\" modifications included 16\" diameter x 7.5J multi-spoke DTM-style alloy wheels. These wheels were fitted with carbon-fibre effect centre-caps incorporating the \"F2\" logo within. According to Hyundai's \"Coupe F2 Tyre Supplement Handbook\", (supplied with each new Coupe F2), these wheels were described as \"Motorsport-style alloy wheels\". The wheels were actually Team Dynamics DTM, which were manufactured in England by . These wheels were high-quality for an OEM alloy wheel, weighing only 17.6 lbs (8.0 kg) per corner and closely emulating the style of the TSW Hockenheim R.\n\nTyres were Pirelli 225/40/16 P7000 directional, their 225 width and 40 profile made these the most aggressive standard-fit tyre supplied with any RD (or RD2) Hyundai Coupe. The \"F2\" also featured a deeper and more aggressive front spoiler, incorporating an oval chrome mesh grille insert. There was also \"F2\" badging on the front wings and rear valance, an uprated CD/tuner stereo by Sony (CDX C5000R with RDS), \"Coupe F2\" monogrammed aluminium kick plates, a unique leather-and-aluminium gearstick and a discreet \"Coupe F2\" badge on the ashtray fascia. The front carpet mats were inlaid with rectangular silver-coloured \"Coupe F2\" badges. According to the Hyundai Coupe F2 brochure, total on-the-road price was £17,999 (as of July 1998).\n\nTwo further items were available free to the first five-hundred Hyundai Coupe F2 buyers. Firstly, there was a large aluminium-bound \"F2\" art book, (including various artistic photographs and designer images of the Coupe F2). These books were signed inside by rally driver Kenneth Eriksson, (one of Hyundai's drivers in the F2 World Rally Championship at the time). Secondly, there was an aluminium key-fob, fitted with an LED light and supplied in a small silver-coloured box labelled \"Lexon Design Concept\". Both of these items were packaged together in a large silver cardboard box with \"F2\" printed onto the lid. These items were supplied by the dealer upon collection of the new car. During 1998, there was prominent press and billboard advertising in the UK to promote the new \"Coupe F2\". These advertisements incorporated the tag-line, \"On average, men think about the F2 every 6 seconds.\"\n\nThe \"F2 Evolution\" became available on 14 June 1999, almost one-year after the \"F2\" had appeared. The \"F2\" was discontinued and the new \"F2 Evolution\" effectively replaced it. The \"F2 Evolution\" was available with just two colour options, either Silver (metallic) or Cobalt Blue (metallic). It was intended as a limited edition of 1500 units, (though 1513 units were eventually produced). The design was led by McLaren F1 stylist Peter Stevens in conjunction with Hyundai World Rally Team's support company Motor Sports Developments (MSD).\n\nStandard 2.0 SE Coupes were delivered to MSD for mechanical and cosmetic modification. These modifications included a bigger front bumper/spoiler, a modified (larger and higher) rear spoiler with end-plates (these spoilers were designed by Stevens to create zero lift rather than ultimate downforce), a high-lift inlet camshaft (taken from the 1997 1.8-litre Lantra engine) and a 6\"x4\" freeflow exhaust by Magnex (suppliers to Aston Martin). Wheels were 16\" diameter x 7.0J 5-spoke alloys manufactured by TSW (with Yokohama 205/45/16 tyres). There were \"F2 Evolution\" badges on the front wings and rear valance. Vehicle security was provided by a Thatcham-approved Category 1 alarm/immobiliser system. Inside, there was an uprated Sony stereo, \"Coupe F2 Evolution\" monogrammed aluminium kick plates, thicker lambswool carpets and cream instrument dials incorporating \"F2 Evolution\" logos. The front carpet mats were inlaid with silver-coloured circular \"Coupe F2 Evolution\" badges. The armrest lid between the front seats was covered in stitched leather (rather than the molded plastic found on lesser models). The gear leaver gaiter was of smooth leather, with a chrome trim surround at the base, manufactured by Richbrook. The gear-knob was of a unique design and had a chrome finish. Additionally, new brake pads were co-developed for the F2 Evolution by MSD and AP Racing, these new pads provided better \"bite\" and improved fade resistance.\n\nThe mechanical changes were limited to the camshaft and exhaust improvements. Together these modifications saw an increase in power to and torque to .\n\nEach car was supplied with a metal MSD badge. This was fitted onto the bulkhead inside the engine bay. This badge displayed the MSD build number of each particular conversion to \"F2 Evolution\" spec.\n\nUnlike with the previous year's \"F2\" model, this time no dealer-supplied art-book was supplied. However, a range of \"F2 Evolution\" lifestyle accessories were made available through Hyundai dealerships, such as \"F2 Evolution\" branded pens, chairs, clothing and umbrellas etc.\n\nAccording to Hyundai's product-launch literature, total on-the-road price for the \"F2 Evolution\" was £19,299 (as of June 1999).\n\nThe RD2 Tiburon is an update on the original RD platform and was released for sale in 1999. The RD2 received a facelift that altered the front and rear bumpers and also provided a refreshed interior dash. In South Korea, the RD2 Tiburon was marketed as the \"Tiburon Turbulence\".\n\nThe RD2 headlights have separate enclosures for the high and low beams giving the four headlight look, similar to the third generation Honda/Acura Integra and the sixth generation Toyota Celica. The rear bumper is also reformed receiving larger taillights. The same 2.0L engine was carried over producing identical performance. ABS, leather seats, and a sunroof were available in a package.\n\n @ 5,800 rpm and 143 Nm (106 lb·ft) torque @ 4,500 rpm.\n\n @ 6,000 rpm and 171 Nm (122 lb·ft) torque @ 5,000 rpm.\n\n @ 6,000 rpm and 180 Nm (133 lb·ft) torque @ 4,800 rpm.\n\nFrom 1997 to 1999 The Tiburon was offered with a 5-speed manual transmission standard, while a 4-speed automatic w/ overdrive was optional.\n\nAcceleration 0–60 mph: 10.8 seconds\nTop speed: (Auto) (Manual)\n\nAcceleration 0–60 mph: 9.0 seconds\nTop speed: \n\nAcceleration 0–60 mph: 8.3 seconds\nTop Speed: (Auto) (Manual)\nThe previous-generation Tiburon was discontinued in 2001 after five years in production. Hyundai launched a revised Tiburon in 2002 for the 2003 model year, giving it new styling, larger dimensions, and an optional V6 engine. Tiburon's wheelbase and overall length grew slightly compared to the previous version, increasing curb weight by about . In the US, base and GT V6 models were offered with standard front side airbags and optional anti-lock brakes. Base Tiburons retained the 2.0-liter four-cylinder engine, while GT V6 coupes got the new 2.7-liter V6 from Hyundai's Sonata and Santa Fe. A five-speed manual transmission was standard, and a four-speed automatic was optional. The automatic unit had a manual shift gate. Also optional on the GT V6 was a six-speed manual gearbox. Base models and GT V6 automatics rode on 16-inch tires, versus 17-inch for the GT V6 manual models. Tuscani models had all the upgrades being the \"Elite\" model with separate badging to set it apart from all other models. Both had standard four-wheel disc brakes. Leather upholstery was standard in the GT V6, as well as a rear spoiler (high spoiler std. on 6-speed only). Aluminium pedals and a sunroof were optional.\n\nIn 2004, all GT V6s received 17\" wheels. A \"special edition\" of the GT V6 was also released. It featured a \"Special Edition\" decal-style badge underneath \"Tiburon\", sport cloth upholstery, a Kenwood stereo, red painted front brake calipers, and multigauges above the radio. Only the 6-speed and automatic transmissions were available. The special edition was available in Jet Black, Rally Red, and Sunburst Yellow only. The new design received praise from a number of automotive journalists, some of which compared it to the Ferrari 456.\n\nIn 2005 Hyundai facelifted the Tiburon and reshuffled the model lineup; offering GS, GT, and SE models. The SE was now a separate trim from the GT models. Hyundai's four-cylinder engine went into the GS, while the other two held the 2.7-liter V6. A five-speed manual transmission was standard. A four-speed automatic with a manual shift was optional for GS and GT models, but the SE had exclusive use of a six-speed manual gearbox. Anti-lock brakes was standard on the SE and optional for the GT coupe, which could be equipped with leather upholstery. GS coupes rode on 16-inch wheels, versus 17-inch for other models. All-disc brakes and front side airbags were standard. Anti-lock brakes were made standard on all 2006 model Tiburons.\n\nIn the UK, three models were available before and after the 2005 facelift: the 1.6S, 2.0SE and V6. The 1.6S had a single exhaust and leather seats were optional, although following the 2005 facelift half-leather seats were standard. Both other models have twin exhausts and leather seats as standard. The six-speed gearbox was also standard on the V6 model.\n\nA popular modification saw owners of the first GK model removing the air-filter resonator box. The resonator box was located directly in front of the front left hand side wheel, behind the fender. This allowed for a greater airflow to the air filter, gaining a minimal increase of brake horsepower (bhp). Hyundai, seeking cost cuts, adopted this modification for 2004+ models. Hyundai also released a new color for their 2006 Tiburon called Regatta blue, between Tidal Wave blue and Midnight blue, which is Metallic. This color is also available for the 2007 Elantra and Tiburon.\n\nIn Greece and perhaps other countries, due to high taxation in hi-displacement engines, a 1.6-liter Turbocharged engine was available for some years, producing 145 PS(107 kW) at 5,800 rpm and 190 Nm (128 lbf) of torque at 4,300 rpm and making the 1233 kg vehicle capable of accelerating from 0–100 km/h (0–62 mph) in 9.3 seconds and achieving a top speed of 210 km/h (131 mph). Fuel consumption was 6.4L/100 km (36.8 mpg).\n\nHyundai conducted minor tweaks to the 'GK' model in 2005, for the outgoing named 2006. The vehicle incorporated reworked sleeker blackened \"smoked\" headlights, redesigned rear tail lights, more aggressive front air dam, a different range of alloy wheel designs, colored stitching on leather seats (half leather seats available for the 1.6 range).\nIn 2006, Hyundai released the GT Limited Model. This was an upgrade from the GT V6. It included an upgraded tan leather interior, automatic climate controls, a 440w Infinity 6-disc in dash stereo with 10\" subwoofer, an upgraded gauge cluster, and side markers. The GT LTD came in black, Blue, and midnight blue.\n\nIn Australia, a limited edition TS was released in October 2005. It had a unique \"tiger orange\" color paintjob (a color that was not available for any other model) and an extra high rear spoiler. Black leather trim with red stitching, sunroof and other extras were included as standard. The name TS stands for \"Tiger Shark\", referring to its exclusive orange color and the shark origins of the Tiburon name.\n\nOnly 80 of these 2005 TS models were released. Each had an individually numbered ID plate inside the driver's door frame. Number 1 had a manual transmission, and number 80 had an automatic transmission.\n\nA limited edition TS of the 2006 model was also released in 2006. It was available in a unique \"vivid blue\" paintjob. Only 62 of these were released.\n\nA more comprehensive facelift was launched in 2007, named the Coupe SIII in markets such as the UK, this time altering the appearance of the car enough to designate it the fourth generation or GK F/L2 reminiscent of the RD1 and RD2 denotations.\n\nThe headlights are thinner and angled more aggressively; somewhat similar to the original Tiburon headlights with more straight/sharp lines. The tail lights are similar to the RD2 and GK1 but are somewhat smaller and reflect an aftermarket styling. The fenders lose the \"gill fins\" and other small changes are seen.\n\nThe interior is updated with brushed aluminium accents, new blue backlight scheme for gauges and instrumentation and new seats.\n\nHyundai later introduced the limited, special edition TSIII (UK). This upgraded, limited edition included quilted leather interior with embroidered logos, stiffer sports suspension, quad exhaust exit pipes, a higher level rear spoiler and an anthracite finish to the alloy wheels. The performance of the TSIII remained the same as the SIII. This is the last model made.\n\nThe exact specification depends on model and the region where it was sold but these are some\nof the features available:\n\n\nThe 2004–2007 models received a 4/5 star rating from the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration in the USA.\n\nIn the US, the 5-speed retained standard on the GS, GT, and GT Limited, while the upscale SE model came only with a six-speed manual. A four-speed automatic transmission with Shiftronic was available for all models.\n\nIn the UK and Middle East, the 5-speed manual is standard on the 1.6L and 2.0L versions, while a 6-speed is standard on the top of line 2.7L FX model, A four-speed automatic transmission with Shiftronic was available for 2.0L & 2.7L as well.\n\nMagazines road test performance of the car:-\n\n\n\nThe car is branded as the Hyundai Coupe in some European markets and the Middle East. Also in some markets like South Korea the model is sold and branded as a Tuscani. The Tuscani wears a circular badge containing a smaller circle of black and grey horizontal bars which is overlaid with a letter 'T' painted gold on the left and silver on the right. Even in markets where the car is sold as a Hyundai Tiburon or Hyundai Coupe, the name Tuscani has become quite popular. Many cars have been modified aftermarket to be rebadged with Tuscani emblems. In Canada, a special edition of the Tiburon is sold as a \"Tuscani edition\". There was a rumour that Hyundai is considering a plan to branch off the Tuscani name as a complete sub brand for more exclusive, sporty, and upmarket models. The existence of the name is most likely to achieve greater sales where the Hyundai name has cloying associations with more budget products.\n\nIn some markets secondary badging may denote engine size and variations such as trim, wheel, and other options. These badges include GS, GT, SE and FX, although some use FX across the entire range available. In certain markets, certain exterior colors are not available and identification may require noticing subtle local differences such as alloy wheels, spoilers or dealer fit options such as in car entertainment systems. These can all change from year to year and from market to market, so the variation is quite significant. One notable difference is that the 1.6 engine always has a single exhaust on the right hand side, in all markets where it is sold.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857222", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857222", "title": "Yellow-headed caracara", "text": "Yellow-headed caracara\n\nThe yellow-headed caracara (\"Milvago chimachima\") is a bird of prey in the family Falconidae. It is found in tropical and subtropical South America and the southern portion of Central America. Unlike the falcons in the same family, the caracara is not a fast-flying aerial hunter, but is rather sluggish and often obtains food by scavenging.\n\nWhen Louis Jean Pierre Vieillot first described the yellow-headed caracara in 1816, he gave it the scientific name \"Polyborus chimachima\", putting it in the same genus as the crested caracaras. In 1824, German naturalist Johann Baptist von Spix created the genus \"Milvago\" for this species and the closely related chimango caracara.\n\nThe yellow-headed caracara is in length and weighs on average. Like many other birds of prey, the female is larger than the male, weighing against the male's . Apart from the difference in size, there is no significant sexual dimorphism in this species. It is broad-winged and long-tailed, somewhat resembling a small \"Buteo\". The adult has a buff head, with a black streak behind the eye, and buff underparts. The upper plumage is brown with distinctive pale patches on the flight feathers of the wings, and the tail is barred cream and brown. The head and underparts of immature birds have dense brown mottling.\n\nThe voice is a characteristic screamed \"\".\n\nThis is a bird of savanna, swamps and forest edges. Resident from Costa Rica south through Trinidad and Tobago to northern Argentina (the provinces of Misiones, Chaco, Formosa, Corrientes and Santa Fe), it is typically found from sea level to , and occasionally to above mean sea level. In southern South America, it is replaced by a close relative, the chimango caracara, whose range overlaps with that of the yellow-headed caracara in southern Brazil, northern Argentina, Paraguay and Uruguay. A larger and stouter paleosubspecies, \"Milvago chimachima readei\", occurred in Florida and possibly elsewhere some tens of thousand years ago, during the Late Pleistocene. According to the Peregrine Fund database, the yellow-headed caracara is expanding its range into Nicaragua.\n\nThe yellow-headed caracara is omnivorous, and will eat reptiles, amphibians and other small animals as well as carrion. Birds are rarely if ever taken, and this species will not elicit warning calls from mixed-species feeding flocks that cross its path even in open cerrado habitat. It will also remove and eat ticks from cattle and Baird's tapir (\"Tapirus bairdii\") , and is sometimes called the \"tickbird\". It has been observed also to forage for small invertebrates in the fur of brown-throated three-toed sloths and capybaras. In addition, at least younger birds are fond of certain fruits, such as those of the oil palm (\"Elaeis guineensis\") and pequi (\"Caryocar brasiliense\"). It lays from five to seven brown-marked buff eggs in a stick nest in a tree.\n\nThe yellow-headed caracara has benefited from forest clearing for cattle ranching. Its status in Trinidad has changed from rare to fairly common, and it was first seen on Tobago in 1987. It adapts readily to urban areas and, together with species such as the American black vulture (\"Coragyps atratus\"), it is among the most commonly seen bird of prey in Latin American cities. Consequently, this wide-ranging species has been assigned a risk level of Least Concern category on the IUCN Red List. In Panama City for example, as a result of the increased urban sprawl, yellow-headed caracara pairs are frequently seen along the rooftops in suburban neighborhoods.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857229", "title": "Three Treasures (traditional Chinese medicine)", "text": "Three Treasures (traditional Chinese medicine)\n\nThe Three Treasures or Three Jewels () are theoretical cornerstones in traditional Chinese medicine and practices such as Neidan, Qigong, and T'ai chi. They are also known as Jing Qi Shen (; \"essence, qi, and spirit\"). Despeux summarizes.\n\"Jing\", \"qi\", and \"shen\" are three of the main notions shared by Taoism and Chinese culture alike. They are often referred to as the Three Treasures (\"sanbao\" ), an expression that immediately reveals their importance and the close connection among them. The ideas and practices associated with each term, and with the three terms as a whole, are complex and vary considerably in different contexts and historical periods. (2008:562) \n\nThis Chinese name \"sanbao\" originally referred to the Taoist \"Three Treasures\" (from \"Tao Te Ching\" 67, tr. Waley 1958:225, \"pity\", \"frugality\", and \"refusal to be 'foremost of all things under heaven' \") and has subsequently also been used to refer to the Buddhist Three Jewels (Buddha, Dharma, and Sangha). (This use is misleading, however, as the Three Jewels in Buddhism is a completely different philosophy. The Buddha is the teacher, the Dharma is the teaching, and the Sangha is the community. The Three Jewels of Buddhism are the external supports for achieving realization, while the Three Treasures of Taoism are interior qualities or attitudes to be cultivated.)\n\nIn long-established Chinese traditions, the \"Three Treasures\" are the essential energies sustaining human life:\nThis \"jing-qi-shen\" ordering is more commonly used than the variants \"qi-jing-shen\" and \"shen-qi-jing\".\n\nIn \"Neidan\" \"internal alchemy\" practice (Despeux 2008:563), transmuting the Three Treasures is expressed through the phrases \"lianjing huaqi\" \"refining essence into breath\", \"lianqi huashen\" \"refining breath into spirit\", and \"lianshen huanxu\" \"refining spirit and reverting to Emptiness\". Both \"Neidan\" and Neo-Confucianism (Despeux 2008:564-5) distinguish the three between \"xiantian\" \"prior to heaven\" and \"houtian\" \"posterior to heaven\", referring to \"Yuanjing\" \"Original Essence\", \"Yuanqi\" \"Original Breath\", and \"yuanshen\" \"Original Spirit\".\n\nThe (2nd century BCE) \"Huainanzi\" refers to \"qi\" and \"shen\" with \"xing\" \"form; shape; body\".\nThe bodily form [\"xing\"] is the residence of life; the \"qi\" fills this life while \"shen\" controls it. If either of them loses their proper position, they will all come to harm. (1, tr. Englehart 2000:99) \n\nThe Taoist text \"Gaoshang yuhuang xinyin jing\" (, \"Mind-Seal Scripture of the Exalted Jade Sovereign\", or \"Xinyin jing\" \"Mind-Seal Scripture\") is a valuable early source about the Three Treasures (tr. Olson 1993). Probably dating from the Southern Song dynasty (1127-1279), this anonymous text presents a simple and concise discussion of internal alchemy (\"neidan\" ). In particular, it emphasizes the so-called Three Treasures (\"sanbao\" ), namely, vital essence (\"jing\" ), subtle breath (\"qi\" ), and spirit (\"shen\" ). (Komjathy 2004:29) \nFrederic H. Balfour's (1880:380-381) brief essay about the \"Xinyin jing\" (\"The Imprint of the Heart\") contains the earliest known Western reference to the Three Treasures: \"There are three degrees of Supreme Elixir – the Spirit, the Breath, and the Essential Vigour\".\n\nThe (late 16th century) \"Journey to the West\" novel provides a more recent example when an enlightened Taoist patriarch instructs Sun Wukong \"Monkey\" with a poem that begins:\n\nKnow well this secret formula wondrous and true:\nSpare and nurse the vital forces, this and nothing else.\nAll power resides in the semen [jing], the breath [qi], and the spirit [shen];\nGuard these with care, securely, lest there be a leak.\nLest there be a leak!\nKeep within the body! (tr. Yu 1977:88)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1857235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857235", "title": "Olaf Karthaus", "text": "Olaf Karthaus\n\nOlaf Karthaus (born 1963 in Koblenz) is a German polymer chemist and Professor at the Chitose Institute of Science and Technology in Chitose, Hokkaidō, Japan, researching polymer chemistry, thin films, photonics, and nanotechnology.\n\nKarthaus received a PhD from Johannes Gutenberg University of Mainz in Mainz, Germany, in 1992 under the supervision of Helmut Ringsdorf. From 1992 to 1993 he worked as a post-doctoral fellow of the Japan Society for the Promotion of Science (JSPS) and the Alexander von Humboldt Foundation at Tohoku University. He then served as a research assistant from 1994 to 2000 at the Research Institute for Electronic Science at Hokkaido University in Sapporo.\n\nKarthaus was a co-plaintiff with Debito Arudou and Kenneth Sutherland in an anti-discrimination lawsuit against a hot spring (onsen) in Otaru, Japan, that refused entry to individuals with foreign appearance even if they were Japanese citizens.\n\nKarthaus's wife, , received a personal reply to a letter written to , the mayor of Otaru, in 1999. \n\nHe has authored or coauthored 54 peer-reviewed articles in scientific journals: according to Science Citation Index, the ones that have been the most cited are:\n\n"}
{"id": "1857237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857237", "title": "Protocol Bringing under International Control Drugs outside the Scope of the Convention of 13 July 1931 for Limiting the Manufacture and Regulating the Distribution of Narcotic Drugs", "text": "Protocol Bringing under International Control Drugs outside the Scope of the Convention of 13 July 1931 for Limiting the Manufacture and Regulating the Distribution of Narcotic Drugs\n\nThe Protocol bringing under International Control Drugs Outside of the Scope of the 1931 Convention for Limiting the Manufacture and Regulating the Distribution of Narcotic Drugs, signed in 1948, was a drug control treaty designed to eliminate some of the loopholes associate with its predecessor treaty, the 1931 Convention for Limiting the Manufacture and Regulating the Distribution of Narcotic Drugs. It is perhaps most noteworthy as the first drug control treaty to implement the similarity concept; that is, its provisions applied to all drugs with similar harmful effects and abuse liabilities as the drugs specified in article I, paragraph 2 of the 1931 treaty . The similarity concept was also included in the 1961 Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs and the 1971 Convention on Psychotropic Substances.\n\nThe impetus for the treaty was the popularity of new, uncontrolled opiate derivatives that were outside the scope of the Permanent Central Board's restrictions. In particular, manufacturers were switching from morphine to pethidine, methadone, and other designer drugs to evade the international restrictions. The similarity concept was specifically designed to combat these tactics.\n\nIn addition, every Party to the Protocol was committed to inform the UN Secretary-General of any drug used or capable of being used for medical or scientific purposes (and not falling within the scope of the 1931 Convention) which that party considered capable of abuse and of producing harmful effects. The Protocol also authorized the Commission on Narcotic Drugs to place such a drug under provisional control. The provisional control measures might be altered in the light of the conclusions and decisions of the World Health Organization (and subsequently in the light of experience).\n\nThe Protocol was superseded by the 1961 Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1857238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857238", "title": "Chimbu Province", "text": "Chimbu Province\n\nChimbu, occasionally spelled Simbu, is a province in the Highlands Region of Papua New Guinea. The province has an area of 6,112 km² and a population of 376,473 (2011 census). The capital of the province is Kundiawa. Mount Wilhelm, the tallest mountain in Papua New Guinea, is on the border of Simbu.\n\nChimbu is located in the central highlands cordillera of Papua New Guinea. It shares geographic and political boundaries with five provinces: Jiwaka, Eastern Highlands, Southern Highlands, Gulf and Madang. It is a significant source of organically produced coffee.\n\nChimbu is a province with limited natural resources and very rugged mountainous terrain. The economic progress of the province has been slower than some other highlands provinces.\n\nThere are seven secondary schools in the province: Kondiu Rosary, Yauwe Moses, Kerowagi, Muaina, Gumine, Mt Willem and Kundiawa Day Secondary School. The province also has many high and primary schools.\n\nThe province is subdivided into six districts, with each district further subdivided into one or more Local Level Government (LLG) areas. For census purposes, the LLG areas are again subdivided into wards and those into census units.\n\nThe current governor, Noah Kool, was elected in the 2012 national election under the new Limited Preferential Voting (LPV) system. The Governor is the head of the provincial government. The provincial bureaucracy is headed by the provincial administrator. The current acting administrator is Joseph Kunda Naur, a former educationist. He is from the Endugla/Naur tribe.\n\nThe provincial headquarters is Kundiawa, which is also the location of the province's main airport. Air Niugini makes three flights to Kundiawa each week. There are many guest houses within the proximity of Kundiawa town.\n\nOne of many paramount traditional Grand Chiefs of Papua New Guinea. The leading developer of Chuave District basic services and politics in the colonial era to 26th June, 1985. \n\nBRIEF POLITCAL HISTORY AND STATUS OF LATE Grand Chief TEINE AGIYONGA\n\nLate Grand Chief Teine Agiyonga [Mr] was a traditional leader born within 1930s and involved in politics in his early aged until the time of his death on the 26th of June, 1985 at Kundiawa General Hospital [KGH]. He is indeed a life time politician and started his political career in the early 1950s as a young interpreter [Tanim tok] within Chuave District. Due to his popularity as an interpreter he was appointed Councillor of Giriyu Rest House without formal voting process. Thereafter several years he then voted for Council President for East-West & Chuave LLG that period. \n\nAfter the Third House of Assembly he was elected Provincial Government Member [PGM] for East & West Elimbari Constituency. Thus, he was an Interpreter, Ward Councillor, LLG President and Provincial Government Member at the same time in this era. He served a Provincial Government Member and loss to Dama Sipa [His cousin Brother] in Third House of Parliament in 1983. Hence, he was still a PGM, contested in 1982 Chuave Open Seat and came second, defeated only two [02] votes by Robert Yabare. \nLate Grand chief Teine Agiyonga inputs or developments [Goods & Services] in the Chuave District;\nIn his political livelihood, he grasped many goods & services into the Chuave District. He promoted Agricultural development, introduced Coffee & Cardamone plants, Cheep & Cattle farming etc that help many for sustainable development in the District. He supported in Health & Education and established five [05] Community Schools [Now all are Primary Schools]. \n\nLate Grand Chief Teine Agiyonga, certainly a founding father of;\n1. Dama/Yoriri Primary School_ Pimuri Rest House [Elimbari LLG] \n2. Norome Primary School_ Korurume Rest House [Elimbari LLG]\n3. Gogo Primary School_ Gogo Rest House [Elimbari LLG]\n4. Giriyu Primary School_ Giriyu Rest House [Elimbari LLG] & \n5. Eigun Primary School_ Gun Rest House [Chuave LLG]\n\n1. Beur Heath Centre_ Giriyu Rest House [Elimbari LLG] now shut \n2. Wangoi Health Centre_ Wangoi Rest House [Elimbari LLG] &\n3. Kuraguri Aid Post_ Kuraguri Rest House [Elimbari LLG] now shut \n\nHe furthermore developed Government Gazetted roads that links to Villages or Rest Houses like; \n1. Warabago-Wiridani Road_ Kureiri & Kuraguri Rest Houses [Elimbari LLG]\n2. Giriyu-Kanma road_ Giriyu Rest House [Elimbari LLG] &\n3. Giriyu-Korima road_ Giriyu Rest House [Elimbari LLG] currently operating. \n\nNot merely this but also, he parted Chuave District LLGs [Chuave LLG, Siane LLG & Elimbari LLG] into three when it was two [Chuave & Siane LLGs] previously. In a provincial scale, he was appointed as a Director for Chimbu Coffee Board [SCB] and a Deputy Premier for Chimbu Province in 1980 to 1984 when Mathew Siune was a Chimbu Provincial Premier. He is also a founder of Organised Giriyu Seventh Day Adventist [SDA] Church with Pastor Garry of Yani [Gumine District], the Late father of Jerry Garry [Mr], the current Managing Director for Mineral Resources Authority [MRA]. \n\nGeographic proximity and historical links have given Papua New Guinea a special place in the World. Hence, elections in 1972 resulted in the formation of a ministry headed by Chief Minister Michael Somare that time, who pledged to lead the Country to self-government and then to independence. Papua New Guinea became self-governing on 1st December, 1973 and achieved Independence on the 16th of September, 1975.\nAfter the Independence, based on this vow, Papua New Guinea being progressed rapidly at the leadership of Papua New Guinea pioneer political leaders and late Grand Chief Teine Agiyonga was one amongst them. Although, nominated electorate leader like Yauwe Wauwe Moses in the first and second House of Assembly, John Kaupa in the Thirst House of Assembly and First House of Parliament and Kagi Yabare in the Second and Third House of Parliament which they carried development and set the history of Chuave politics by all means. \n\nYet in comparation to the overall development ever since the Legislative council of Papuan New Guinea in 1951 to 1959 and the First House of Assembly in 1964 to the current House of Parliament, Late Grand Chief Teine Agiyonga was a leading contributor to the Chuave politics and development. He set up an impregnable or unconquerable benchmark whereby his legacy shall be permanently be deliberated and ruminated forever and ever with the proviso that the World is last.\n\nLate Grand Chief Teine Agiyonga was a man of integrity, diligence, vision and fairness. The people who worked with him had respect for him and he for them. He took responsibility for people’s actions and putting others' needs above his own. He offers to help others in need and giving others the benefit of the doubt. He also opted honesty in all things and exposed respect to everyone. He is indeed a great and God-fearing man manifesting humility or humbleness always in his life on Earth. His political heritage and legacy always remained unchanged to this date. God bless East-West Elimbari and Chuave District for his tireless effort amongst few in the District eversince 1950s to date.→\n\nThe province was governed by a decentralised provincial administration, headed by a Premier, from 1977 to 1995. Following reforms taking effect that year, the national government reassumed some powers, and the role of Premier was replaced by a position of Governor, to be held by the winner of the province-wide seat in the National Parliament of Papua New Guinea.\n\nThe province and each district is represented by a Member of the National Parliament. There is one provincial electorate and each district is a local (\"Open\") electorate.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1857239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857239", "title": "CFJC-TV", "text": "CFJC-TV\n\nCFJC-TV, VHF analogue channel 4, is a Citytv-affiliated television station licensed to Kamloops, British Columbia, Canada. The station is owned by the Jim Pattison Broadcast Group subsidiary of the Jim Pattison Group. CFJC-TV's studios are located on Pemberton Terrace and Columbia Street West in Kamloops, and its transmitter is located near Southern Yellowhead Highway/Highway 5, southeast of Kamloops Airport. \n\nOn cable, the station is also available locally on Shaw Cable channel 7. On satellite, it is carried on Bell TV channel 259, and Shaw Direct channels 309 (Classic) and 13 (Advanced). There is a high definition feed offered on Telus TV channel 692, and Shaw Direct channels 7 (Classic) and 507 (Advanced).\n\nThe station first signed on the air on April 8, 1957 as CFCR-TV, originally operating as a CBC affiliate; the station changed its call letters to CFJC-TV (taken from local radio station CFJC, its owner at the time) on September 1, 1971. The television and radio stations were purchased by the Jim Pattison Group in 1987.\n\nBy the 1990s, CFJC had delegated its national advertising sales to Western International Communications, owner of fellow CBC affiliate CHBC in Kelowna. WIC began selling the two stations' advertising as a single unit under the name \"BCI TV\". For years, both stations carried virtually identical programming schedules apart from local newscasts, with the majority of non-CBC programming coming from Global and, to a lesser extent, WIC itself (Global was not available as a standalone network in the B.C. interior until Vancouver station CHAN-TV became an affiliate in 2001). Canwest acquired CHBC in 2000 and assumed the same role in selling advertising and providing programming, primarily from its CH television system. During the 1990s and early 2000s, the station branded itself as \"CFJC TV7\", in reference to its cable channel position in the Kamloops area.\n\nOn November 1, 2005, the Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission (CRTC) announced it had received an application from Pattison to disaffiliate CFJC from CBC Television. According to documents filed with the commission, the continuation of CFJC's joint sales agreement with CHBC, which had previously received clearance to disaffiliate and become a CH station under Canwest – was contingent on CFJC's concurrent disaffiliation. The CRTC gave its approval on February 1, and CFJC disaffiliated from the CBC on February 27. While CFJC initially branded itself as \"The All-New Independent TV7\" after its disaffiliation, Canwest continued to supply the bulk of the station's programming, and CFJC became, in effect, the first CH station that was not owned by Canwest.\n\nIn September 2007, CH was rebranded as \"E!\", complete with several E!-branded programs, making it difficult for CFJC to continue to call itself \"independent\". By October, the station had embraced the new E! identity in its general branding outside of local programming, and rebranded its newscasts from \"CFJC TV7 News\" to simply \"CFJC News\", in line with the Canwest-owned E! stations elsewhere in the country.\n\nThe 2006 affiliation switch had left CBC Television solely dependent on cable and satellite carriage of its Vancouver station CBUT in the market, with no new terrestrial transmitters being installed in the Kamloops area. The Canadian Broadcasting Corporation indicated it had not budgeted for this scenario and therefore could not afford to replace the transmitters, as it has done in most cases in years past when private affiliates left the network. Most other stations from which the transmitters have been replaced became owned-and-operated stations, while CFJC remained independently owned.\n\nThe CBC later announced that the transmitters of Jim Pattison's two other former CBC affiliates that switched to E!, CKPG-TV in Prince George and CHAT-TV in Medicine Hat, would not be replaced, and no transmitters were scheduled to be installed for the future in these areas. All three areas ended up being served by other television networks. However, despite a limited Francophone population in the absence of an Anglophone network, Radio-Canada station CBUFT out of Vancouver was available over-the-air in Kamloops and Prince George, and CBUFT sister station CBXFT out of Edmonton was available in Medicine Hat until CBC shut down its rebroadcast transmitters in 2012.\nOn July 14, 2009, Pattison announced that CFJC and its other E! affiliates would begin receiving programming from Rogers Media's Citytv system starting September 1; CFJC and CKPG would also become part of a new regional sales initiative known as \"inTV\". Canwest had previously announced it would sell or close its E! stations, leaving the Pattison stations without a programming source. On May 3, 2012, Rogers announced that it renewed the Citytv affiliation agreements with the Jim Pattison Group, which were originally slated to expire that August; under the agreement, CKPG largely became a semi-satellite of CKVU-DT, broadcasting the majority of its programming in pattern with the Vancouver O&O (including \"Breakfast Television\"), but opting out for locally produced midday and evening newscasts.\n\nCFJC-TV presently broadcasts 10 hours of locally produced newscasts each week (with two hours each weekday); the station does not produce any newscasts on Saturdays or Sundays. On May 18, 2012, CFJC-TV began broadcasting its local newscasts in high definition.\n\nCFJC-TV has a rather extensive network of rebroadcast transmitters to serve outlying communities because of the mountainous areas.\n\nSemi-satellites are in bold italics\nAccording to a 2009 CRTC decision, CFJC-TV is not required to activate its digital signal, as Kamloops was not a mandatory market for digital conversion, which took place in most other markets on August 31, 2011. When CFJC signs on its digital signal, the station will broadcast on VHF channel 13. Through the use of PSIP, digital television receivers will display CFJC-TV's virtual channel as its analogue-era VHF channel 4.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857244", "title": "Delta Meadows River Park", "text": "Delta Meadows River Park\n\nDelta Meadows River Park (DMRP) is a state park property of California, USA, preserving an undeveloped piece of the Sacramento–San Joaquin River Delta. At present it is officially closed to the public and has no visitor services. The park encompasses sloughs, wet meadows, and an island between the Sacramento and Mokelumne Rivers. It is located near the historic Chinese American town of Locke, equidistant from Sacramento and Stockton. The property was established in 1985.\n\nDelta Meadows preserves a river delta much as it appeared 150 years ago, crowded with stands of oak, tule, walnut, willow, and cottonwood. Abundant wildlife includes black-tailed deer, beavers, river otters, muskrats, and wetland birds such as great blue herons, wood ducks, mallards, belted kingfishers, and cormorants.\n\nDelta Meadows is primarily accessible by boat. However one can drive onto Railroad Slough Levee from the River Road between Walnut Grove and Locke, via a small gravel road just north-east of the cross channel. Previously a docent program through the Delta Natural History Association provided canoe guides in the spring and fall, reserved through Brannan Island State Recreation Area.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1857260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857260", "title": "Devocalization", "text": "Devocalization\n\nDevocalization (also known as ventriculocordectomy or vocal cordectomy and when performed on dogs is commonly known as debarking or bark softening) is a surgical procedure performed on dogs and cats, where tissue is removed from the animal's vocal cords to permanently reduce the volume of its vocalizations.\n\nDevocalization is usually performed at the request of an animal owner (where the procedure is legally permitted). The procedure may be forcefully requested as a result of a court order. Owners or breeders generally request the procedure because of excessive animal vocalizations, complaining neighbors, or as an alternative to euthanasia due to a court order.\n\nContraindications include negative reaction to anesthesia, infection, bleeding, and pain. There is also the possibility of the removed tissue growing back, or of scar tissue blocking the throat, both requiring further surgeries, though with the incisional technique, the risk of fibrosis is virtually eliminated.\n\nThe devocalization procedure does not take away a dog's ability to bark. Dogs will normally bark just as much as before the procedure. After the procedure the sound will be softer, typically about half as loud as before, or less, and it is not as sharp or piercing. So while the procedure does not stop barking or silence the animal completely, it is effective in reducing the sound level and sharpness of the dog's bark.\n\nMost devocalized dogs have a subdued \"husky\" bark, audible up to 20 metres.\n\nThe procedure may be performed via the animal's mouth, with a portion of the vocal folds removed using a biopsy punch, cautery tool, scissor, or laser. The procedure may also be performed via an incision in the throat and through the larynx, which is a more invasive technique. All devocalization procedures require general anesthesia.\n\nChronic, excessive vocalization may be due to improper socialization or training, stress, boredom, fear, or frustration. Up to 35% of dog owners report problems with barking, which can cause disputes and legal problems. The behavior is more common among some breeds of dog, such as the Shetland Sheepdog, which are known as loud barkers, due to the nature of the environment in which the breed was developed.\n\nVocalizations are a natural behavior of animals which they use widely in intra-specific and inter-specific communication. As such, devocalization should generally be considered only as a last resort. Before this surgical intervention, there are other, less invasive interventions which can be considered to overcome excessive vocalizations.\n\nTraining can be one of the most effective techniques to help combat excessive barking in dogs. Acquiring the help of a professional dog trainer can often help reduce an animal's barking.\n\nThe use of automatic and manual corrective collars can be useful as a training aid when used correctly; however, the use of corrective collars, particularly shock collars, is controversial and banned in some countries. Types of corrective collars include vibration, citronella spray, ultrasonic and electrostatic/shock collar.\n\nBecause dogs often bark excessively due to stress, boredom, or frustration, changing aspects of an animal's environment to make them more content is a suitable way to quiet them down, rather than forcibly silencing a distressed animal. Spending more time with an animal, such as playing, walking, and other bonding activities, will keep them occupied and make them feel more at ease. If the animal is stressed, it is best to remove the object that is causing them discomfort.\n\n\n\nDr. Kathy Gaughan points out that \"the surgery stops the barking, but it doesn't address why the dog was barking in the first place.\" Gaughan notes that visitors to her clinic who request debarking are usually looking for a \"quick fix\". Gaughan states that, commonly, those who seek debarking live in apartments, or have neighbors who complain. Gaughan also counts \"breeders with many dogs\" among those who most often seek convenience devocalization. However, Dr. Gaughan does not agree with those who claim the procedure is cruel, stating: \"Recently, some animal advocates have asserted this surgery is cruel to the animal; some countries have even outlawed the procedure. I do not believe the surgical procedure is cruel; however, failing to address the underlying factors is inappropriate.\"\n\nSome breeders seek the surgery in order to limit or diminish noise levels for personal reasons ranging from convenience to prevention; some breeders even seek the surgery for puppies prior to going to new homes.\n\nMultiple animal medicine and animal welfare organizations discourage the use of convenience devocalization, recommending that it only be used as a last resort. However, organizations such as the American Veterinary Medical Association, American Animal Hospital Association and the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, oppose laws that would make devocalization illegal.\n\nThe American Veterinary Medical Association's official position states that \"canine devocalization should only be performed by qualified, licensed veterinarians as a final alternative after behavioral modification efforts to correct excessive vocalization have failed.\" \n\nThe AVMA's position was later adopted by the American Animal Hospital Association.\n\nThe Canadian Veterinary Medical Association's position statement on devocalization of dogs states: “The Canadian Veterinary Medical Association (CVMA) discourages “devocalization” of dogs unless it is the only alternative to euthanasia, and humane treatment and management methods have failed.\"\n\nThe American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (ASPCA) recommends that animal caretakers first attempt to address animal behavior problems with humane behavior modification techniques and/or with a treatment protocol set up by an animal behavior specialist. The ASPCA recommends surgery only if behavior modification techniques have failed, and the animal is at risk of losing its home or its life.\n\nThe legality of convenience devocalization varies by jurisdiction.\n\nThe procedure is outlawed as a form of mutilation in the United Kingdom and all countries that have signed the European Convention for the Protection of Pet Animals. In the United States, devocalization is illegal in Massachusetts, New Jersey, and Warwick, Rhode Island.\n\nDebarking is specifically prohibited in the UK, along with ear cropping, tail docking, and declawing of cats. By law, convenience devocalization is considered a form of surgical mutilation.\n\nIn the United States, laws vary by state. In 2000, anti-debarking legislation was proposed in California, New Jersey, and Ohio. The California and New Jersey bills failed, partially due to opposition from groups who predicted the ban would lead to similar bans on ear cropping and other controversial cosmetic surgical procedures on dogs. The Ohio bill survived, and was signed into law by Governor Robert Taft in August 2000. However, Ohio Revised Code 955.22 only outlawed debarking of dogs considered \"vicious\".\n\nIn February 2009, 15-year-old Jordan Star of Needham, Massachusetts, filed a bill to outlaw performing convenience devocalization procedures upon cats and dogs. The bill was co-sponsored by Senator Scott Brown, with the title \"Logan's Law\", after a debarked sheepdog. Star said of convenience devocalization: \"To take a voice away from an animal is morally wrong.\" The bill became state law on April 23, 2010.\n\nDevocalizing cats and dogs became illegal in Massachusetts by state law in 2010 and in Warwick, Rhode Island, by city ordinance in 2011. Legislation to ban devocalization of dogs and cats in New York State is underway.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1857266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857266", "title": "Christchurch Botanic Gardens", "text": "Christchurch Botanic Gardens\n\nThe Christchurch Botanic Gardens, located in the central city of Christchurch, New Zealand, were founded in 1863 when an English oak was planted to commemorate the solemnisation of the marriage of Prince Albert and Princess Alexandra of Denmark.\n\nThe Gardens sprawl over an area of 21 hectares and lie adjacent to the loop of the Avon River next to Hagley Park. The Christchurch Botanic Gardens have a variety of collection of exotic and local plants of New Zealand. Some of the many attractions of these beautiful Gardens include:\n\n"}
{"id": "1857283", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857283", "title": "Infant bed", "text": "Infant bed\n\nAn infant bed (commonly called a cot in British English, and, in American English, a crib or cradle, or far less commonly, stock) is a small bed especially for infants and very young children. Infant beds are a historically recent development intended to contain a child capable of standing. The cage-like design of infant beds restricts the child to the bed. Between one and two years of age, children are able to climb out and are moved to a toddler bed to prevent an injurious fall while escaping the bed.\n\nInfant beds are more common in Western countries, employed by the majority of parents as an alternative to sharing a bed (co-sleeping).\n\nThe name \"crib\" was used to describe a slatted, high-sided child's bed.\nIt derives from the Old English word \"cribb\" which means \"manger\" (food trough, referring to the shape of a bassinette) or stall (implying coralling the child).\n\nIt wasn't until the 19th century that infant beds developed from bassinettes, acquiring a role of keeping the child in their bed. The development of a distinction between infant beds and bassinettes was natural because it was \"considered vital that the child's bed be raised off the ground.\" This was due to a perception of noxious fumes below knee level, and explosive vapours near the ceiling, with good air in between. Once children's beds were raised off the ground the role of the sides changed from a convenience to a safety feature.\n\nIt was recognised that once children learn to stand they may be able to get out of a bed with low sides. According to an expert of the time, infant beds were used once the child was 12 months old. Often one side was hinged to open the enclosure, a function fulfilled in modern infant beds with a dropside. With the hinge side lowered, the bed could be moved on casters, and they could be moved right up to the carer's bed when needed.\n\nIron beds were developed in 17th century Italy to address concerns about bed bug infestation and moths. This new application was quickly extended to children's beds - a rockable iron bassinette (with spear-like corner posts) has been dated to 1620-1640. Proponents promoted the supposed health benefits of iron beds. Infant beds constructed from metal became popular during the later half of the 19th century. Infant beds (and bassinettes) constructed from iron with mesh or chain sides were common. Childcare experts gave iron beds their approval because it was hygienic material (compared with wood) and could not \"habour vermin\", of which bed bug infestation, lice and moths were cited concerns. Commonly painted with a white vitreous enamel, later manufacturers working with wood continued to paint in the now traditional white; unfortunately this was often lead paint, and children were notorious for chewing and sucking the sweet surface.\n\nSince 1938, babies in Finland have slept in cardboard boxes with a mattress in the bottom, which are distributed to expectant mothers as a \"maternity package\" containing baby supplies.\n\nAs an example of improving safety of infant bed designs, the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission has set standards for infant beds sold since 1973. Since this time U.S. annual deaths attributed to infant beds reducing from approximately 200 to approximately 50,\nand injury rates now at approximately 8,000 per year. Many of these injuries are attributed to the 25 million infant beds manufactured prior to the progressively refined safety standards, yet still in use.\n\nInfant beds are designed to restrict the baby to the bed. The sides are too high for a baby to climb and provide no footholds. Technical standards for infant beds include considerations such as the materials used and preventing hand and head entrapment. \nStandards for infant beds have been specified in Australia and New Zealand, \nEurope,\nthe United States\nand internationally.\nDesign standards all identify and address four broad hazards: \n\nSome older cribs contained a \"drop gate\" (or \"drop side\"), a side which lowers to ease the process of putting the child into the bed, but can be raised again to restore the integrity of the enclosure. However, assembly problems and malfunctioning hardware on drop gates can cause the formation of gaps, which have been attributed to infant deaths and other major injuries. In June 2011, the United States implemented new safety standards requiring all infant beds manufactured and sold in the country to have fixed sides. In June 2016, Canada implemented a similar ban on the sale, importation, or distribution of any infant bed containing drop sides effective December 29, 2016.\n\nInfant beds can be stationary or portable (portacots, portacribs or folding infant beds). In their portable form the beds generally don't feature a dropside, and portability factors are emphasised. Portacots are often made from plastics, are often smaller and fold into a compact package. Rather than bars, they will have breathable mesh sides with an aperture too small for any finger to fit into (less than 5mm by the standards). Standards for folding infant beds exist for Australia and New Zealand, Europe and international (adopted by various organisations including the American National Standards Institute).\n\nConvertible cribs or convertible cots that can be converted into a standard sized bed as the child grows larger have become increasingly popular due to a longer useful life for the furniture. By removing both sides it becomes a toddler bed with unusually high head and foot boards, or removing just one side it becomes a daybed.\n\nAlthough in the U.S. there is a standard size for an infant bed (~71 cm x ~133 cm), 12% of the 2.4 million infant beds sold annually are not of this size; \"mini cribs\" are an example of this. Larger infant beds are manufactured, generally for hospital use or for those with special needs. They may include a top, generally made of plastic or metal, to prevent a child from climbing out.\n\nAn infant bed is typically used after it is no longer safe to leave the baby in a bassinet. They have a lower center of gravity, more mass, a broader base of support and can hold a larger baby than a bassinet. Infant beds are more stable than bassinets and as such become desirable when a baby can roll, transferring inertia with their actions; a bassinet may tip, an infant bed won't without concerted effort. Around two or three years of age children are able to defeat their confinement and should be moved to a toddler bed to prevent an injurious fall while escaping their bed (falls account for 66% of emergency room admissions due to infant beds in the United States.).\nPlacing a child into an infant bed can put strain on a caretaker's back as they typically have a mass between and at 36 months of age. To reduce the strain on those operating an infant bed, many infant beds feature:\n\nThe American Academy of Pediatrics recommends that infants under 12 months share a room (but not a bed) with their parents, as this has shown to be protective against sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS). Other sleep environment factors include supine positioning (back sleeping), use of a firm sleep surface, breastfeeding, consideration of a pacifier (dummy), and avoidance of soft bedding, overheating, and exposure to tobacco smoke.\n\nScientific research has shown that the mattress influences SIDS outcomes; a firm, clean and well-fitting mattress lowers SIDS risk. However, neither mattress materials\nnor using a second-hand mattress\naffect SIDS risk. It is common to place a waterproof membrane between the mattress and the bedding to prevent uncontained bed wetting from damaging the mattress. Bed sheets ought to fit the mattress tightly so that the child cannot become entangled and suffocate; a common safety recommendation is to short sheet the bed.\n\nBecause of the pronounced risk of suffocation in very young children, and the danger of a fall from the bed for other children, the addition of anything other than sheets (including quilts, pillows and stuffed toys) into an infant bed is not recommended by health authorities. \nA sleepsack can be used instead to keep the baby warm. Older children can use items such as pillows and toys to construct a platform to facilitate escape, defeating the major design criteria and endangering the child.\nBumpers (cushioning) are marketed to keep children from bumping against the hard sides and hurting themselves or becoming entrapped between the crib slats; breathable bumpers are intended to reduce the risk of suffocation. According to 2011 guidelines on safe sleep and SIDS prevention for babies released by the American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP), traditional crib bumper pads should not be used. Their review shows no evidence that traditional crib bumpers protect against injury, but they do carry a potential risk of suffocation, strangulation, or entrapment because infants lack the motor skills or strength to turn their heads if they roll into something that obstructs their breathing. In fact, the sale of traditional crib bumpers has been banned in Chicago and Maryland, with the exemption of mesh alternatives or ones that wrap along the crib rails. Children's product safety non-profit, Kids In Danger is actively working to ban the sale of traditional crib bumpers in Illinois and throughout the country.. The ASTM F15.19 Infant Bedding SubCommittee is actively working to create additional testing standards and revised standards language.\n\nSome toys are specifically intended for an infant bed. Mobiles are musical toys to soothe the baby to sleep, but should be removed before the child can stand (8 to 12 months of age). Mirrors are to keep the children entertained while awake in the bed.\n\nWith decreasing technology prices and increasing house sizes, it has become increasingly common to have a baby monitor nearby so as to alert the caretaker when the child awakens. Without either professional endorsement or scientific evidence that they prevent SIDS, apnea monitors are available to alert the caregiver if the baby stops breathing. \n\nBreathable mattresses are now being recommended to provide safer infant sleep . In the event an infant rolls over on their stomach they have a much better ability to breathe with a breathable mattress, compared to a closed surface mattress.\n\nAll U.S. makers of infant cribs carry JPMA safety and quality certifications.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1857284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857284", "title": "Warren Tredrea", "text": "Warren Tredrea\n\nWarren Gary Tredrea (born 24 December 1978) is a former Australian Rules Footballer with the Port Adelaide Football Club in the Australian Football League (AFL) and current Weekday Sports Presenter on \"Nine News Adelaide\". Since his retirement from football, he has become a sports media personality featuring on \"Nine News Adelaide\", 3AW, Triple M and in The Advertiser newspaper.\n\nTredrea went on to become one of the best forwards in the competition, gaining a long list of individual accolades, including being a premiership winning captain, four Port Adelaide Best and Fairests, eight club Leading Goalkicking awards, an AFL Coaches Association 'Champion Player of the Year' Award, and selection in four All-Australian sides.\n\nThe son of former Collingwood and Port Adelaide player Gary Tredrea, Warren Tredrea played the bulk of his junior football as a wingman before a substantial growth spurt at the age of 16 saw him transformed into a key position player, highlighted by his capture of both Port's Under-17 Coach's Trophy and the St Michael's College, Adelaide 'student athlete' award in 1995.\n\nTredrea made his senior South Australian National Football League (SANFL) debut for Port Adelaide in 1996, managing nine games and capping his rookie year with a premiership medallion, booting two goals in Port Adelaide's 36-point Grand Final victory over Central District. Tredrea was zone selected for the inaugural Port Adelaide squad in the AFL. Debuting in 1997, he only played one game but went on to be Port Adelaide's leading goal kicker in the following five seasons.\n\nAs an 18-year-old developing forward Tredrea found his opportunities for senior football limited, with his largely anonymous debut in Round 2 against Essendon being his sole outing for the Power in 1997. During this time Tredrea managed 16 games for 16 goals with Port Adelaide back in the local league, ending his year on a sour note with a steady performance in the Magpies' defeat to Norwood in the 1997 SANFL Grand Final.\n\nAfter showing glimpses of his ability in the first six rounds of the 1998 AFL season, Tredrea exploded in Round 7 against Carlton at Optus Oval. A simply stunning performance reaped 22 disposals, 17 marks, eight goals (a club record), three Brownlow Medal votes and an AFL Rising Star nomination. His starring role in the 89-point win came at a cost however, with a dislocated kneecap suffered late in the final quarter keeping him out until Round 13. Upon his return to the side Tredrea struggled for consistency but won his first South Australian guernsey with his selection to the State of Origin side to face Western Australia. More impressive performances against Essendon (Round 15, four goals), Melbourne (Round 20, 11 marks, three goals) and Fremantle (Round 21, six goals) followed. He ended the season as leading goalkicker with 33 goals, beating leading goalkicker of 1997, Scott Cummings by a goal.\n\nHe finished the following season in 1999, on 40 goals as leading goalkicker again. Where Port Adelaide made the finals for the first time in their AFL history.\n\nAfter finishing 14th at the end of the 2000 season, he led the goalkicking for the third year in a row, with 32 goals. In 2001, Tredrea imposed himself on the AFL competition, booting 51 goals and taking 169 marks with his contributions as a major factor in his side's rise from 14th to third on the AFL ladder. Tredrea was rewarded for his season winning his maiden John Cahill Medal as Port Adelaide's best and fairest player and the first of four selections as All-Australian centre half forward. Tredrea backed up his breakthrough 2001 efforts with further outstanding seasons in 2002, by kicking 49 goals (just missing out on being the leading goal kicking by three goals behind Stuart Dew) with an All-Australian selection and in 2003, he booted 58 goals, being the leading goal kicker for the club a fifth time and getting another All-Australian.\n\nThe 2004 season is considered Tredrea's best year as he led Port Adelaide to its first AFL premiership in the absence of the injured captain Matthew Primus. He started the year in fine fashion, kicking six goals alongside Stuart Dew in the club's 96-point victory over Essendon. He then kicked five goals against West Coast the following week and booted four goals against Hawthorn in Round 3. He gained captaincy for the entire year after Primus re-injured his knee in Round 3. He had a season-high seven goals in Round 7 in the showdown against Adelaide. He went on to kick six goals against Carlton in Round 15 and against West Coast in Round 17. He then captained the team into the finals and eventually captained them to the premiership win over the Brisbane Lions. He booted 81 goals (career best) and took 192 marks playing in all 25 of the Power's games for the season as well as reaping a host of awards, including his fourth All-Australian centre half forward guernsey, the All-Australian vice-captaincy, his second John Cahill Medal as Port's Best and Fairest player, the AFL Coaches' Association Most Valuable Player award, the Showdown Medal, a raft of media awards and was the pre-count favourite for the Brownlow Medal, only to poll a disappointing 15 votes behind the eventual winner, Chris Judd, who admitted in his acceptance speech \"I thought Warren Tredrea was a shoo-in to be honest\".\n\nAt the beginning of the 2005 season, he kicked five goals in a two-point win in the grand final rematch against the Brisbane Lions and again kicked five goals in Round 5 in the four-point loss against Geelong. In Round 7 there was a controversy after a celebration in Port Adelaide's 47-point victory over the Kangaroos, when after kicking one of his six goals in a best-on-ground performance, he put his hand to his ear in a demonstrative \"phonecall\" celebration. Tredrea stated that as an Arsenal fan, the celebration was an homage to Thierry Henry who had \"then\" recently celebrated in the same fashion. In Round 13, he kicked seven goals against Hawthorn in Port Adelaide's biggest victory, earning him three Brownlow votes. In what was a dismal premiership defence whereby Port barely scraped into the finals series in eighth place before bowing out at the Semi Final stage, Tredrea repeated what he did the previous year, booting 65 goals and taking a personal best 220 marks to win his third John Cahill Medal despite narrowly losing his All-Australian mantle to Fremantle's Matthew Pavlich. Indeed, Tredrea played some of his most explosive football ever highlighted by a dominant seven-goal haul on the All-Australian centre half back, Trent Croad, a pair of five-goal hauls on Matthew Scarlett of Geelong and Mal Michael of Brisbane; and a best on ground performance against the Kangaroos in the Elimination Final after kicking four goals.\n\nWith the retirement of Primus at the end of 2005, Tredrea took over the captaincy role full-time for the 2006 season but like his predecessor, was struck down by a serious knee injury, suffering a dislocated left kneecap in a preseason game against the Brisbane Lions. Upon his return to the side in Round 4 kicking only two goals against the Saints, it was clear Tredrea was still being hampered by the knee and with the notable exception of his four-goal game against Essendon in Round 9 and the 16 mark and three goal game against Hawthorn in Round 11, his overall performances were mediocre by his usual lofty standards. When it became obvious in Round 15 after only kicking one goal against Geelong and with the Power looking like not making the finals, Tredrea had surgery on his knee early with the intention of having him fully fit before 2007.\n\nDespite undergoing knee surgery in August 2006, Tredrea's recovery was a slow one, robbing him of vital preseason training, \"I started running (after knee surgery) at Christmas, my team-mates were breaking personal bests in 3km time trials and I wasn't even running,\" he said. Tredrea finally made his long-awaited return to competitive football with a seven-goal performance for the Port Adelaide in the SANFL in April, however his inconsistent form since returning to the Power was the source of much conjecture and speculation.\n\nIn Round 12 2007, Tredrea played his 200th senior appearance for the club against the team he first played against, Essendon and in doing so became the first Port player to reach that milestone in the club's AFL era. Prior to the occasion Port Adelaide coach Mark Williams declared, \"Tredders will go down in history, certainly in his first 200 games anyway, as the best player that's ever played for the club\". In an auspicious return to form Tredrea booted four goals in the Power's 31-point victory over Essendon at AAMI Stadium. In Round 16, after kicking three goals against Richmond he bruised his bone and ended up missing a month of football before returning in Round 20 against Hawthorn in Tasmania. In the Qualifying Final against West Coast, he helped Port win the game with an excellent check side goal and a Shepherd to give them the three-point win.\n\nIn the 2007 Grand Final Tredrea was one of Port's few good players, kicking two goals in Port Adelaide's record Grand Final defeat to Geelong. In December 2007, after much speculation, Tredrea re-signed with the Power for a further year. After speculation he would not be reappointed due to lingering doubts over his durability and longevity, Tredrea was reappointed as club captain for 2008 after impressive pre-season form.\n\nHe captained the team again in 2008, kicking two goals in Port's Grand Final rematch against Geelong and again the following week. He booted four goals against Hawthorn in Round 8 (three goals in the first quarter) and again kicked four goals against Fremantle in Round 17, eventually dislocating his shoulder in the final term, ending his year. Despite criticism and queries over his form for the bulk of the year, Tredrea performed admirably in season 2008, kicking 31 goals and registering 28 score assists in 17 games.\n\nTredrea started the first two games of 2009 slowly but in Round 3 he kicked six goals against the Demons. The first time he had kicked five or more goals since Round 15, 2005. The next week he kicked his 500th goal and kicked another six goals against the Hawks before kicking seven goals against Richmond in Round 8, including the match winning goal with less than a minute to play and a towering mark at the other end of the ground to secure the game with seconds to play. After the match Mark Williams claimed it was his best game he had ever played earning him three Brownlow votes. He booted three goals in the Geelong loss in Round 13 and kicked four goals against the Brisbane Lions in Round 21, which was his final game for the year. Tredrea booted 51 goals in 21 games of the season, his best return since 2005 and the eighth time he had topped the Port Adelaide goal kicking chart. At season's end Tredrea was awarded his fourth John Cahill Medal as Port Adelaide's best and fairest player.\n\nAt the start of 2010, he became the last inaugural player for the club who played with the Power (Nathan Eagleton was also the only other inaugural Port Adelaide player still competing in the league, although he was playing for the Western Bulldogs until his retirement at the end of the 2010 season). Tredrea started 2010 well, kicking two goals and picking up 13 disposals against North Melbourne at AAMI Stadium. Tredrea played his 250th game with a win against the West Coast Eagles in Round 2 at Subiaco Oval. In the week leading up to Tredrea's 250th game, when asked if he wanted to continue playing football further than 2010 he replied stating, \"You never want to put a timeline on things, but mentally I prepared as though last year would be the end. I wanted to make every post a winner and do everything I could to give myself the best opportunity (to perform) and it went on a year longer than I thought it would. If the body's fresh, my form is good and I'm enjoying it then there's no reason why I won't continue.\"\nHowever, in Round 7, 2010, Tredrea collided with teammate Matt Thomas and damaged his ankle ligaments. On 26 July 2010, as a result of the injury, Tredrea retired, having played 255 games with a return of 549 goals. He is considered by many to be the greatest Port Adelaide player of its AFL era. He was farewelled with a lap of honour in Port Adelaide's Round 18 win over Hawthorn and a testimonial dinner on 5 November 2010.\n\nTredrea presents the Weekday Sports Bulletin for \"Nine News Adelaide\", performs the \"Expert Special Comments Role\" as part of 3AW's National AFL Broadcast. He also writes a weekly sports column for the \"Advertiser\" and has just left TripleM to join the FIVEaa sports team. He will be joining Rowie and Bicks on their afternoon sports show weekly and also give special comments at games during the football season.\n\nWarren Tredrea has three children: a daughter, Halle Neve, born in September 2007, and two sons, Nate Callum born in March 2009 and Leo Mason born in October 2010. In June 2019 he married Bianca Potuszynski. He is a fan of Premier League club Arsenal. He is also a fan of NBA team Golden State Warriors\n\n! scope=\"row\" style=\"text-align:center\" | 1997\n! scope=\"row\" style=\"text-align:center\" | 1998\n! scope=\"row\" style=\"text-align:center\" | 1999\n! scope=\"row\" style=\"text-align:center\" | 2000\n! scope=\"row\" style=\"text-align:center\" | 2001\n! scope=\"row\" style=\"text-align:center\" | 2002\n! scope=\"row\" style=\"text-align:center\" | 2003\n! scope=\"row\" style=\"text-align:center;\" | 2004\n! scope=\"row\" style=\"text-align:center\" | 2005\n! scope=\"row\" style=\"text-align:center\" | 2006\n! scope=\"row\" style=\"text-align:center\" | 2007\n! scope=\"row\" style=\"text-align:center\" | 2008\n! scope=\"row\" style=\"text-align:center\" | 2009\n! scope=\"row\" style=\"text-align:center\" | 2010\n! colspan=3| Career\n! 255\n! 549\n! 362\n! 2564\n! 1073\n! 3637\n! 1751\n! 353\n! 2.2\n! 1.4\n! 10.1\n! 4.2\n! 14.3\n! 6.9\n! 1.4\n\n\"Team:\"\n\n\"Individual:\"\n\n\n\"Milestones:\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1857287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857287", "title": "Wylie (Australian explorer)", "text": "Wylie (Australian explorer)\n\nWylie (c. 1825 – ?) was an indigenous Australian originally from the King George Sound tribe around Albany in Western Australia. He accompanied Edward John Eyre to Adelaide by sea in May 1840, and would have left with Eyre on his expedition to penetrate to the interior in June of the same year, but Wylie was ill. Later in the year, Eyre was at Fowlers Bay in the west, having retreated from the north, and Wylie joined him by way of the ship supplying the expedition, the \"Hero\".\n\nWylie was subsequently one of the three aborigines to accompany Eyre and John Baxter on their final attempt to cross the Nullarbor Plain in 1841. He deserted for a brief time with the other older aboriginal boy, Joey, while the party rested at the sandhills of present-day Eucla, but they returned when they failed to find any food. Several weeks later he proved loyal to Eyre when Joey and Yarry (the other aboriginal boy) murdered Baxter and deserted. Despite the two aborigines accosting them and calling for Wylie to join them the following day, Wylie stayed with Eyre for the rest of the journey, impressing the French whalers they met in Rossiter Bay with his voracious appetite.\n\nJoey and Yarry had been taken on by Eyre at Gundagai and Yarry have been the same person as Yarri or Yarree, who saved a large number of Gundagai citizens during the flood of 25 June 1852 and was accused of at least one subsequent murder.\n\nAfter the completion of the journey, Wylie remained at Albany. He spent a brief time as a native policeman, and also benefited from a government pension procured for him by Eyre, who remained in contact with him for some years afterward.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857297", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857297", "title": "Woodlawn (Birmingham)", "text": "Woodlawn (Birmingham)\n\nWoodlawn is the name of a community in northeast Birmingham, in Jefferson County, Alabama, United States. \n\nPresent-day Woodlawn was settled by a group of farming families who entered the area in 1815, just as it was opened to settlement by the Treaty of Fort Jackson. The community took its name from the Wood family, headed by Obadiah Wood (1753-1849) and his son Edmond Wood (1791-1865), from Greenville, South Carolina. The site they chose was a well-watered section of Jones Valley along the Georgia Road which extended deep into what was then still part of the Mississippi Territory.\n\nEdmund was granted 1200 acres (5 km²) of Obadiah's holdings on which to raise his family. It was on that property that the town of Rockville was formed in 1832 - a small cluster of houses near the roadside. The first railway came through the valley in 1870, at which point the settlement was renamed Wood Station and began to grow. By the end of that decade a private \"Woodlawn Academy\" had been founded to educate the children of the communities 89 residents. In 1884 the Georgia Pacific Railway began offering service into the rapidly growing city of Birmingham, about 4 miles to the west.\n\nIn 1891 the State of Alabama granted a municipal corporation to the \"City of Woodlawn,\" the name chosen by its first citizens to honor the Wood family, who remained active in civic affairs. In 1895 the first City Hall and Jail were built and by the end of the century the population was 2,500. A second, larger City Hall was built at the turn of the century, along with schools, churches, a fire station, and library. The grand gothic-inspired Woodlawn High School opened in 1922.\n\nIn 1910 the City of Woodlawn was annexed into Birmingham, but maintained a strong community spirit that was bound up with the Wood family, who had turned their estate into a public park (now \"Willow Wood Park\"), complete with spring-fed swimming pool. Commentators through the first half of the 20th century never tired of remarking on the local pride found in Woodlawn - \"a really great section of Birmingham...A section typical of the fine things in life.\" (according to one newspaper story from 1950)\n\nUnfortunately, this pride did not prevent the spread of urban blight following the social turmoil of the 1960s and economic turmoil of the 1970s. Compounding the growing problems of aging housing stock and \"white flight\" was a crisis of joblessness and poverty that took hold in the community. The need to seriously address these problems was evident by the beginning of the 1980s and some efforts at revitalization were attempted.\n\nWoodlawn appeared on the 1890 and 1900 U.S. Censuses as an incorporated town. It was formally annexed into the City of Birmingham in 1910.\n\nWithin the city of Birmingham, greater Woodlawn is characterized as one of 23 \"Communities\" that participate in the \"Community Participation Program\" that was drawn up to encourage local political activism and community development. The neighborhoods that make up the Woodlawn community are East Avondale, Oak Ridge Park, South Woodlawn, and the Woodlawn neighborhood itself.\n\nIn the last few years, residents of Woodlawn have worked with the City and Region 2020 to create a master plan as part of Birmingham's \"Comprehensive Master Plan\" process. An initial project to implement master plan goals in the central residential section of Woodlawn, north of 1st Avenue, has met with limited success. Several dilapidated houses were improved and an active community garden was started.\n\nThe business district of Woodlawn, and Woodlawn High School, both critical assets, remain at risk of not recovering from decline.\n\nRecently, attention has turned back to the business district of Woodlawn. Rev Birmingham and the Woodlawn Foundation have taken center stage revitalizing businesses and housing, making this the new hot neighborhood in Birmingham. Recently opened high end boutique businesses such as Open Shop, Public Office & Club Duquette, along with Bayles Catering, Historic Event Venue WOODROW HALL, the Cycle Café and the artisan tea shop Piper and Leaf are calling this neighborhood home. All of this growth, combined with three new public murals is making Woodlawn the Magazine Street of Birmingham.\n\nWoodlawn is currently home to one of two Hackerspaces in Alabama. Red Mountain Makers. The other being Makers Local 256 in Huntsville.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1857299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857299", "title": "Station Casinos", "text": "Station Casinos\n\nStation Casinos is an American hotel and casino gaming company based in the Las Vegas suburb of Summerlin South, Nevada, and founded by Frank Fertitta Jr. Station Casinos, along with Affinity Gaming, Boyd Gaming and Golden Entertainment, dominate the locals casino market in Las Vegas. The company purchased several sites that were gaming-entitled, meaning that major casinos can be built at that location without additional approvals. There are only a limited number of such sites available in the Las Vegas area. Station Casinos has also branched out into managing casinos that they do not own. Red Rock Resorts, Inc. () is a publicly traded holding company that owns a portion of Station Casinos.\n\nThe company started out as a locals casino operator on July 1, 1976, opening the Bingo Palace. The establishment was later renamed Palace Station.\n\nOn December 4, 2006, Frank Fertitta III, Lorenzo Fertitta and Colony Capital LLC, operating as \"Fertitta Colony Partners\", made a highly leveraged offer to purchase all existing shares at $82 per share and take the company private. The Fertitta brothers, their sister Delise Sartini, and Blake L. Sartini, her husband, with a combined investment of $870.1 million, purchased a 25% stake in Fertitta Colony Partners. Colony Capital contributed $2.6 billion for a 75% share.\n\nOn July 28, 2009, Station Casinos filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy. Station Casinos' filing listed $5.7 billion in assets against $6.5 billion in debt. The filing said the company had 510 holders of unsecured and subordinate debt totaling $4.4 billion.\n\nOn August 21, 2009, Frank Fertitta Jr., the founder of Station Casinos and father of the Fertitta brothers, died of surgical complications from heart surgery, at the age of 70. He was interred at the Palm Desert Memorial in Las Vegas, Nevada.\n\nStation Casinos exited bankruptcy on June 17, 2011, with $4 billion less in debt and with creditors putting the company's 18 casinos back in the hands of the Fertitta family and their partners. The Fertitta brothers agreed to put nearly $200 million in the reassembled company and now own 45 percent of its shares. The other new equity owners include the company's main lenders, Deutsche Bank AG, which holds 25 percent; JPMorgan Chase with a 15 percent stake; and former bondholders with an additional 15 percent, according to lawyers on the deal.\n\nStation Casinos announced on October 13, 2015, that it would return to the stock market with an initial public offering. On April 26, 2016, Red Rock Resorts, Inc., a new holding company owning a portion of Station Casinos, went public on the NASDAQ Stock Exchange.\n\nOn May 10, 2016, Station Casinos agreed to purchase the Palms Casino Resort for $313 million.\n\n\nAll the Nevada sites below are gaming-entitled, unless otherwise noted. Gaming-entitled means that a casino can be built on that location without special approvals.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1857300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857300", "title": "Palazzo della Cancelleria", "text": "Palazzo della Cancelleria\n\nThe Palazzo della Cancelleria (Palace of the Chancellery, referring to the former Apostolic Chancery of the Pope) is a Renaissance palace in Rome, Italy, situated between the present Corso Vittorio Emanuele II and the Campo de' Fiori, in the rione of Parione. It was built 1489–1513 by Donato Bramante (1444–1514) as a palace for Cardinal Raffaele Riario, Camerlengo of the Holy Roman Church, and is regarded as the earliest Renaissance palace in Rome. The Palazzo houses the Papal Chancellery, is an extraterritorial property of the Holy See, and is designated as a World Heritage Site.\n\nThe Cancelleria was built for Cardinal Raffaele Riario who held the post of Cardinal Camerlengo to his powerful uncle, Pope Sixtus IV. The rumor was that the funds came from a single night's winnings at gaming. The edifice has traditionally been attributed to Donato Bramante and Andrea Bregno. Current opinion of the architect's identity is divided, with Francesco di Giorgio Martini and Baccio Pontelli suggested as having been involved in the early stages of its design.\n\nIn 1517, the newly completed Palazzo was seized by the first Medici Pope, Leo X, who had not forgotten the complacency of Pope Sixtus IV at the time of the murderous Pazzi conspiracy intended to replace the Medici in Florence, Italy with a Della Rovere regime. From 1753 the vice chancellor was the Jacobite pretender to the thrones of England, Scotland, France, and Ireland, Henry Stuart, Cardinal Duke of York, the Jacobite Henry IX of England and Ireland, and I of Scotland. During the late 17th century former Queen Kristina of Sweden resided here.\n\nDuring the Roman Republic of 1849 the parliament briefly sat here.\n\nIn 2015, it was the residence of retired, and now deceased, Cardinal Bernard Law of Boston, United States.\n\nThe Palazzo della Cancelleria was the first palazzo in Rome to be erected from the ground up in the new Renaissance style. Its long facade engulfs the small Basilica di San Lorenzo in Damaso, the Cardinal's titular church, that is to its right, with the palatial front continuing straight across it. The entrance to the Basilica is on the right side of the facade. The 5th-century basilica (its interior has been rebuilt) sits, like the Basilica di San Clemente among others, on a pagan Roman mithraeum. Excavations beneath the \"cortile\" from 1988 to 1991 revealed the 4th- and 5th-century foundations of the grand Basilica di San Lorenzo in Damaso, founded by Pope St. Damasus I, and one of the most important early churches of Rome. A cemetery in use from the 8th century until shortly before the construction of the Palazzo was also identified.\n\nThe facade, with its rhythm of flat doubled pilasters between the arch-headed windows, is Florentine in conception, comparable to Leone Battista Alberti's Palazzo Rucellai. The overall pattern of drafted masonry, cut with smooth surfaces and grooves around the edges, is ancient Roman in origin. The grand portal was added in the 16th century by Domenico Fontana on the orders of Cardinal Alessandro Farnese.\n\nThe bone-colored travertine of the Palazzo was spolia from the nearby ancient ruins of the Theatre of Pompey, for Rome was a field of ruins, built for a city of over one million that then housed a mere 30,000. The 44 Egyptian granite columns of the inner courtyard are from the porticoes of the theatre's upper covered seating, however they were originally taken from the theatre to build the old Basilica di San Lorenzo in Damaso. Filippo Brunelleschi's cloisters of the Basilica di Santa Croce in Florence, which may have also inspired the courtyard of Luciano Laurana's Palazzo Ducale in Urbino (circa 1468) has been suggested as a possible source of inspiration. It is more probable that the form of the courtyard is derived from that of the Palazzo Ducale in Urbino, because the individuals involved in the early planning of the Palazzo had come from Urbino. \n\nIn the Palazzo is a vast mural that Giorgio Vasari completed in a mere 100 days, therefore named the Sala dei Cento Giorni. He boasted of this accomplishment to Michelangelo, who responded \"Si vede\" (\"It shows\"). In the Palazzo a little, private theatre was installed by Cardinal Pietro Ottoboni, and in the later 17th century the Palazzo became a center of musical performance in Rome.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1857308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857308", "title": "Culture of Morocco", "text": "Culture of Morocco\n\nThe culture of Morocco refers to the culture or cultures—behaviors, customs, knowledge, beliefs, arts, laws, etc.—of Moroccan society. Moroccan culture is primarily Muslim, and it represents a confluence of influences: Amazigh, Arab, Sahrawi, Sub-Saharan African, Mediterranean, Andalusi, Jewish, European, and more.\n\nThe majority of Morocco's population identifies as Berber and Arab. While the two official languages of Morocco are Standard Arabic and Standard Moroccan Berber, most Moroccans speak Darija (Moroccan vernacular Arabic) as a native language. At least a third of the population speaks an Amazigh language, especially Tarifit, Tamazight, or Tashelhit. French, and, to a lesser degree, Spanish, have also been widely used since the colonial period.\n\nModern Standard Arabic and Standard Moroccan Berber (Tamazight) are the official languages of Morocco, while Darija () is the national vernacular language; Amazigh dialects, especially Tarifit, Central Atlas Tamazight, and Tashelhit, are also widely spoken. Varieties of Judeo-Arabic have also traditionally been spoken in Morocco. Foreign languages, particularly French, English, and Spanish, are widely spoken in urban centers such as Tangier or Casablanca. With all of these languages, code-switching is an omnipresent phenomenon in Moroccan speech and media.\n\nClassical Arabic, a formal rather than natural language, is used primarily in formal, academic, and religious settings. Darija, or Moroccan vernacular Arabic, in its various regional and contextual forms, is used more often in casual situations, at home, and on the street. Hassaniya is a distinct dialect of Arabic spoken in the south of Morocco.\n\nTashelhit (also known locally as \"Soussia\") is spoken in southwest Morocco, in an area between Sidi Ifni in the south, Agadir in the north, and Marrakesh and the Draa and Sous valleys in the east. Central Atlas Tamazight is spoken in the Middle Atlas, between Taza, Khemisset, Azilal, and Errachidia. Tarifit is spoken in the Rif area of northern Morocco in towns like Nador, Al Hoceima, Ajdir, Tétouan, Taourirt, and Taza.\n\nMost Amazigh embraced Islam quickly, though their non-Arab ethnic and linguistic distinction has resisted the Arab-Islamic influence. Hundreds of Amazigh (Berber) associations have been created to defend their culture and identity in the last few decades in Morocco and Algeria. Newsstands and bookstores in all the major cities are filled with new Berber publications that provide articles and essays about the Amazigh culture and art. In 1994, the state-owned TV station RTM (now \"TVM\") started broadcasting a daily, 10-minute-long news bulletin in the 3 Berber dialects. Berber activists are demanding a fifty percent share of broadcasting time in standardized Berber (Tamazight) on all state-owned TV channels. There is also a national Tamazight channel in Morocco, called Tamazight TV. It opened in 2010, and broadcasts for over 13 hours a day, with an extended broadcast on weekends.\n\nAs Amazigh societies primarily practiced oral tradition, the history of Moroccan literature started in the early Middle Ages. In the era of the Berber dynasties, coinciding with the flowering of Al-Andalus, there were several important Moroccan writers, especially in the fields of religion and poetry.\n\nMoroccan music is characterized by its great diversity from one region to another. It includes Arabic music genres, such as chaâbi and aita in the Atlantic plains (Doukkala-Abda, Chaouia-Ouardigha, Rehamna), \"melhoun\" in the Andalusi cities (Meknes, Fes, Salé, Tetouan, Oujda...), and Hassani in the Moroccan Sahara. There is also Amazigh music such as the Rif \"reggada\", the \"ahidus\" of the Middle Atlas and the Souss \"ahwash\". In the South there is also \"deqqa Marrakshia\" and gnawa. In addition, young people synthesize the Moroccan spirit with influences from around the world (blues, rock, metal, reggae, Moroccan rap, etc.).\nAndalusi music is popular in Morocco. It probably evolved under the Moors in Cordoba, and the Persian-born musician Ziryab is usually credited with its invention. Traditional songs such as \"\"Shams al-'Ashiya\"\" are still played at celebrations and formal events. \"Dar ul-Aala\" in Casablanca is a museum and conservatory dedicated to this musical heritage. A genre known as Contemporary Andalusian Music and art is the brainchild of Morisco visual artist/composer/oudist Tarik Banzi, founder of the Al-Andalus Ensemble. \n\nChaabi (\"popular\") is a music consisting of numerous varieties which are descended from the multifarious forms of Moroccan folk music. Chaabi was originally performed in markets, but is now found at any celebration or meeting.\n\nPopular Western forms of music are becoming increasingly popular in Morocco, such as fusion, rock, country, metal and, in particular, hip hop.\n\nMorocco participated in the 1980 Eurovision Song Contest, where it finished in the penultimate position.\n\nThe decorative arts have a long and important history in Morocco. One of the traditional elements of artistic expression in Morocco is Maghrebi-Andalusian art and architecture. Carved plaster Arabesques, zellige tilework, carved wood, and other expressions of Islamic geometric patterns are typical features of this style.\n\nMaghrebi Arabic script is an important feature of the history of visual art in Morocco. While some aspects of Maghrebi script are codified and prescribed, there have also been innovations, such as those by the 19th century calligrapher Muhammad al-Qandusi.\n\nMuhammad Ben Ali Rabati was one of the first Moroccans to paint in a European style.\n\nChaïbia Talal was another celebrated naive painter from Morocco.\n\nContemporary art in Morocco is still developing. with considerable potential for growth. Since the 1990s-2000s Moroccan cities have welcomed institutions that contribute to the diffusion of contemporary art and the visual arts: L'appartement 22 and Radio Apartment 22 in Rabat, the Cinémathèque de Tanger in Tangier, La Source du Lion in Casablanca, Dar Al-Ma'mûn residency and center, the Marrakech Art Fair, and the Marrakech Biennale, all in Marrakech.\n\nLocal art galleries such as Galerie Villa Delaporte, Atelier 21, Galerie Matisse and Galerie FJ are also platforms showing contemporary artwork and contributing to its development.\n\nThe global art market also influences the development and visibility of contemporary art in Morocco; international exhibitions such as \"Africa Remix\" (2004) and \"Uneven Geographies\" (2010) featured contemporary artists from North Africa, including Moroccan ones. Regional events such as the Dakar Biennale (or Dak'Art – Biennale de l'Art Africain Contemporain), a major contemporary African art exhibition, gives greater visibility to artists from the African continent.\n\nArtists born in Morocco or with Moroccan origins include Mounir Fatmi, Latifa Echackhch, Mohamed El Baz, Bouchra Khalili, Majida Khattari, Mehdi-Georges Lahlou, and Younes Baba-Ali.\n\nMoroccan artists have devised several initiatives to help develop a contemporary art market in the country. For example, Hassan Darsi created La Source du Lion in 1995, an art studio that welcomes artists-in-residence, and Bouchra Khalili and Yto Barrada founded the Cinémathèque de Tanger in 2003, which is dedicated to promoting Moroccan cinematographic culture. A group of seven Moroccan artists, among them Amina Benbouchta, Hassan Echair, Jamila Lamrani, Safâa Erruas and Younès Rahmoun, formed \"Collectif 212\" to exhibit their work at Le Cube, an independent art room. Their first major show was in 2006 at the exhibition \"Un Siècle de peinture au Maroc\" [A century of painting in Morocco] when the new premises of the French Institute of Rabat (\"L'Institut Français de Rabat\") were officially opened. They committed to creating artistic experiences in the context of Moroccan culture, as well as collaborating with other artists such as Hicham Benohoud.\n\nThe young local artists Batoul Shim and Karim Rafi participated in the \"Working for Change\" project, which aims to create art expressive of Moroccan culture, during the 2011 Venice Biennale.\n\nThere is a burgeoning market for modern & contemporary art. The art movement began over 50 years ago at the center of Marrakech, in the bustling market place of Jemaa el-Fna, when a group of abstract artists got together and exhibited their work. The exhibit lasted for 10 days and is considered the beginning of a movement in modern and contemporary art. It has been gaining recognition throughout the African continent and globally ever since.\n\nMarrakech has emerged as the \"art capital\" of Morocco. It houses numerous art museums including the Farid Belkahia Museum, named after one of the leading Jemaa el-Fna artists who died in 2014. Marrakech is home to the Yves Saint Laurent Museum and hosts the annual Marrakech International Film Festival.\n\nTangier is another center for art, producing renowned artists like Ahmed Yacoubi and Abdellatif Zine and Mohamed Hamri whose works are displayed around the world.\n\nTattooing was once a popular tradition in the Maghreb, particularly among rural Amazigh populations.\n\nMoroccan cuisine is generally a mix of Berber, Arab, Andalusi, and Mediterranean cuisines with slight European and sub-Saharan influences. It is known for dishes such as couscous, tajine, and \"pastilla\". Moroccan cuisine uses many herbs, including cilantro, parsley, and mint; spices such as cinnamon, turmeric, ginger, cumin, and saffron; and produce such as tomatoes, onions, garlic, zucchini, bell peppers, and eggplant. One of the defining features of Moroccan cuisine is the interplay between sweet and savory flavors, as exemplified by \"tfaya\", a mix of caramelized onions, butter, cinnamon, sugar, and raisins often served with meat.\n\nHistorically, couscus has been the staple of the Moroccan diet. On special occasions, more complex meals like the traditional Moroccan pastilla and some special pastries such as \"gazelle ankles\" and \"briwates\" are served for guests. Mint tea, called \"atay\" in Morocco, is commonly regarded as the national beverage.\n\nMorocco' official religion is Islam. The rhythm of life for Moroccans is dictated by religious celebrations throughout the year, such as Ramadan and Eid Al Adha. During these celebrations, most of them being public holidays, Moroccans focus on praying and spending time with their family. Moroccans also celebrate al-Mawlid al-Nabawi, the birthday of the Prophet Muhammad, and the Islamic New Year.\n\nOther religious celebrations include the Friday weekly prayer where most Moroccans go to the mosque for the Friday mid-day prayer.\n\n Morocco has long had a significant Jewish population, distinguished by traditions particular to Moroccan Jews. For example, \"Mimouna\" is a characteristically Maghrebi holiday celebrated the day after Passover. \"Mahia\" is traditionally associated with Moroccan Purim celebrations.\n\n\"Yennayer\", the Amazigh new year, has been celebrated from January 12 to January 13, the beginning of the Julian calendar, since antiquity.\n\nOther celebrations include Ashura, the tenth day of the Islamic year, and \"Bujlood\", a folk carnival celebrated after Eid al-Adha.\n\n\"Taburida\", or \"mawsam\" or \"fantasia\", is a traditional exhibition of horsemanship in the Maghreb performed during cultural festivals and for Maghrebi wedding celebrations. There are also several annual festivals that take place in Morocco, such as the \"Betrothal Festival\" in Imilshil, the rose festival in Qalaat Megouna, or the saffron festival in Taliween.\n\nCarpet weaving is a traditional craft in Morocco. Styles vary dramatically from region to region and from tribe to tribe. Among the more popular varieties there are:\n\n\nSome Atlas tribes, such as the Beni Ouarain, also weave \"hendiras\", which are ornate woven cloaks for use in the winter. When it is snowing, they can be overturned and the loose loops of wool help snow fall off to keep the cloak dry.\n\nThe traditional dress for men and women is called \"djellaba\" (); a long, loose, hooded garment with full sleeves. The djellaba has a hood that comes to a point called a \"qob\". The \"qob\" protects the wearer from the sun or in colder climates, like the mountains, the \"qob\" keeps in body heat and protects the face from falling snow. For special occasions, men also wear a red cap called a \"bernousse\", more commonly referred to as a \"Fez\". Women wear \"kaftans\" () decorated with ornaments. Nearly all men, and most women, wear \"balgha\" () —- soft leather slippers with no heel, often dyed yellow. Women also wear high-heeled sandals, often with silver or gold tinsel.\n\nThe distinction between a \"djellaba\" and a \"kaftan\" is the hood on the \"djellaba\", which a \"kaftan\" lacks. Most women's \"djellabas\" are brightly colored and have ornate patterns, stitching, or beading, while men's \"djellabas\" are usually plainer and colored neutrally.\n\nIn the first half of the 20th century, Casablanca had many movie theaters, such as Cinema Rialto, Cinema Lynx and Cinema Vox—the largest in Africa at the time it was built.\n\nThe 1942 American film \"Casablanca\" is supposedly set in Casablanca and has had a lasting impact on the city's image, though it was filmed entirely in California and doesn't feature a single Moroccan character with a speaking role. \"Salut Casa!\" was a propaganda film brandishing France's purported colonial triumph in its \"mission civilizatric\"e in the city.\n\n\"Love in Casablanca\" (1991), starring Abdelkarim Derqaoui and Muna Fettou, was one of the first Moroccan films to deal with Morocco's complex realities and depict life in Casablanca with verisimilitude. Nour-Eddine Lakhmari's \"Casanegra\" (2008) depicts the harsh realities of Casablanca's working classes. The films \"Ali Zaoua\" (2000), \"Horses of\" God (2012), and \"Ghazzia\" (2017) of Nabil Ayouch—a French director of Moroccan heritage—deal with street crime, terrorism, and social issues in Casablanca, respectively. The events in Meryem Benm'Barek-Aloïsi's 2018 film Sofia revolve around an illegitimate pregnancy in Casablanca. Hicham Lasri and Said Naciri also from Casablanca.\n\nAtlas Studios in Warzazat is a large movie studio. \n\nSome directors have set films in Morocco. In 1952 Orson Welles chose Essaouira as the setting for several scenes in his adaptation of Shakespeare's \"Othello\", which had won the Grand Prix du Festival International du Film at that year's Cannes Film Festival. In 1955, Alfred Hitchcock directed \"The Man Who Knew Too Much\" and in 1962, David Lean shot the Tafas Massacre scene of \"Lawrence of Arabia\" in the city of \"Ouarzazate\", which houses Atlas Studios. Aït Benhaddou has been the setting of many films. The film \"Hideous Kinky\" was filmed in Marrakech. \n\nA \"qsar\" (p. \"qsur\") or an \"ighrem\" is a North African fortified village, especially an Amazigh one. There are over 300 \"qsur\" and \"qasbas\" the Draa Valley, particularly in the area between Agdz and Zagora.\n\nAn \"agadir\", not to be confused with the city Agadir, is a communal granary traditionally found in Amazigh communities in southern Morocco.\n\nAndalusi garderns, inherited from Morisco refugees who settled in Morocco, are a prominent feature of Moroccan architecture. These have been used in building palaces such as the Bahia Palace in Marrakesh. The Andalusi garden, which usually features a burbling fountain, has an important role in cooling riads: the evaporation of water is an endothermic chemical reaction, which absorbs heat from the area garden and surrounding rooms.\n\nMorocco has many beautiful gardens, including the Majorelle Garden in Marrakech and the Andalusian Garden in the Kasbah of the Udayas in Rabat.\n\n\"Dar\", the name given to one of the most common types of domestic structures in Morocco, is a home found in a \"medina\", or walled urban area of a city. Most Moroccan homes traditionally adhere to the \"Dar al-Islam\", a series of tenets on Islamic domestic life. \"Dar\" exteriors are typically devoid of ornamentation and windows, except occasional small openings in secondary quarters, such as stairways and service areas. These piercings provide light and ventilation. \"Dars\" are typically composed of thick, high walls that protect inhabitants from thievery, animals, and other such hazards; however, they have a much more symbolic value from an Arabic perspective. In this culture the exterior represents a place of work, while the interior represents a place of refuge. Thus, Moroccan interiors are often very lavish in decoration and craft.\n\nConsistent with most Islamic architecture, \"dars\" are based around small open-air patios, surrounded by very tall thick walls, to block direct light and minimize heat. Intermediary triple-arched porticos lead to usually two to four symmetrically located rooms. These rooms have to be long and narrow, creating very vertical spaces, because the regional resources and construction technology typically only allow for joists that are usually less than thirteen feet.\n\nUpon entering a \"dar\", guests move through a zigzagging passageway that hides the central courtyard. The passageway opens to a staircase leading to an upstairs reception area called a \"dormiria\", which often is the most lavish room in the home adorned with decorative tilework, painted furniture, and piles of embroidered pillows and Moroccan rugs. More affluent families also have greenhouses and a second \"dormiria\", accessible from a street-level staircase. Service quarters and stairways were always at the corners of the structures.\n\nZiliij, colorful geometric mosaic tile work, is a decorative art and architectural element commonly found in Moroccan mosques, mausolea, homes, and palaces. These probably evolved from Greco-Roman mosaics, which have been found in cities such as Volubilis and Lixus.\n\nIn the mid to late 20th century, architects such as Elie Azagury, Jean-François Zevaco, Abdeslam Faraoui, Patrice de Mazières, and Mourad Ben Embarek marked the architecture of Casablanca and other parts of Morocco with significant works of modernist and brutalist architecture.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1857310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857310", "title": "Ganjam district", "text": "Ganjam district\n\nGanjam district is a district in the Indian state of Odisha. Ganjam's total area is 8,070 km² (3,116 mi²).\n\nThe district headquarters is Chhatrapur. Ganjam is divided into three sub-divisions Chhatrapur, Berhampur, and Bhanjanagar. \"The Imperial Gazetteer of India\" 1908 lists Ganjam, along with the Thanjavur and South Canara districts, as the three districts of the Madras Presidency where Brahmins were most numerous.\nAs of 2011 it is the most populous district of Odisha (out of 30).\n\nGanjam was a part of ancient Dakshina Kalinga. The Mauryan emperor Ashoka inscribed his message at Jaugada near the banks of the Rushikulya, in the present-day Ganjam district. Scholars thus conclude that a significant part of Ganjam was under the rule of Ashoka. There are multiple theories regarding the name 'Ganjam'. During the 7th century, the region was known as Kangoda or Kongoda. Some scholars believe the word evolved from this ancient name. A second theory suggests that one Ibrahim Qutabshahi, Sultan of Golconda invaded the region in 1571 and the region later became known by the Persian adjective 'Ganj-i-am', meaning 'place of the commoners'.\n\nGanjam district is one of the oldest administrative units of Odisha. It was part of Madras presidency during British rule.\nThe 23 Tahasils in Ganjam district under three sub-divisions are listed in the following table.\n\nThe 22 Blocks in Ganjam district under three sub-divisions are listed in the following table.\n\nAn important contributor to the local economy is production of extracts from Ganjam Kewda Rooh, which are used in perfumery.\n\nSince Ganjam is a coastal district, it is well equipped with Port facilities. Port at Gopalpur and nearby industries cater economic activities of the district and Odisha state.\n\nAccording to the 2011 census Ganjam district has a population of 3,529,031, roughly equal to the nation of Lithuania or the US state of Connecticut. This gives it a ranking of 83rd in India (out of a total of 640). The district has a population density of . Its population growth rate over the decade 2001–2011 was 11.37%. Ganjam has a sex ratio of 983 females for every 1000 males, and a literacy rate of 71.88%.\n\nAt the time of the 2011 Census of India, 91.29% of the population in the district spoke Odia, 7.17% Telugu, 0.44% Kui and 0.42% Sora as their first language.\n\nThe following is the Vidhan sabha constituencies of Ganjam and the elected members of the area\n\nSince 2008, Ganjam district is represented in Berhampur (Lok Sabha constituency) and Aska (Lok Sabha constituency).\n\nBerhampur seat earlier Ganjam (Lok Sabha constituency) exist in 1952 and 1957 general elections as two seat constituency and Chatarpur (Lok Sabha constituency) exist in 1962, 1967 and 1971 general elections and later Berhanpur seat exist since 1977 general elections.\n\nAska seat exist since 1977 general elections and earlier as Bhanjanagar (Lok Sabha constituency) seat in 1962, 1967 and 1971 general elections\n"}
{"id": "1857320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857320", "title": "Clipper card", "text": "Clipper card\n\nThe Clipper card is a reloadable contactless smart card used for electronic transit fare payment in the San Francisco Bay Area. First introduced as TransLink in 2002 by the Metropolitan Transportation Commission (MTC) as a pilot program, it was rebranded in its current form on 16 June 2010.\n\nIn 1993, Bay Area Rapid Transit (BART) and County Connection launched a pilot program named Translink (not to be confused with other agencies with that name) that allowed the use of a single fare card between the two systems. The card, which used magnetic stripe technology, was envisioned to one day include all Bay Area transit agencies. However, due to technical problems, the program was abandoned two years later.\n\nTranslink had a projected capital cost of $4 million when undertaken in 1993. In its current form, first as TransLink and later as Clipper, implementation was expected to cost $30 million. Cost estimates have since increased; the projected 25-year capital and operations costs are now estimated at $338 million.\n\nImplementation took more than a decade. In 1998, MTC envisioned full availability of TransLink by 2001. However, it was fully operational for only five transit agencies by 2009. As of December 2011, Clipper was only accepted by eight of the Bay Area's transit agencies.\n\nClipper was developed by Australian-based ERG Group and Motorola under the ERG-Motorola alliance in April 1999. However, upon the launch of Clipper, Cubic Transportation Systems took over administration of distribution, customer service, and financial settlement of the program.\n\nOn , MTC changed the TransLink name to Clipper, an homage to the clipper ships of the 19th century, the fastest way to travel from the East Coast to San Francisco, and eliminated the contact interface which had been used to load funds onto the cards at Translink machines.\n\nIn October 2010, the MTC selected 路路通 (Pinyin: Lùlùtōng, the \"Go Everywhere Card\", lit. \"every transit route/line pass\") as the official Chinese name for Clipper. In Spanish it is known as \"tarjeta Clipper\".\n\nObtaining a card was free from introduction in June 2010 to encourage users to adopt the card, until September 1, 2012 when new adult cards began to cost $3. This charge covers the approximately $2 per card to manufacture and reduces the incentive to throw away the card if the value goes negative when fare is calculated on exit. The $3 fee is waived if the card is registered to auto-load more value (in which case it cannot go negative).\n\nPassengers can add money to their Clipper cards in person (\"at participating retailers, participating transit agencies' ticket vending machines and ticket offices, Clipper Customer Service Centers, and Clipper Add Value Machines\") at work, automatically, or online. While the money is added immediately in person, it will take 3–5 days before it registers on the Clipper card if added by telephone or online.\n\nClipper is currently functional for 22 Bay Area transit agencies:\n\nClipper can also integrate with transportation modes other than public transit. Ford GoBike, a bicycle-sharing system operating in several Bay Area cities, can accept Clipper as a form of payment. Several BART stations have electronic locking bicycle racks that are accessible with Clipper, and the agency also plans to enable Clipper for its secured bicycle lockers. Previously, a few parking garages in the Bay Area accepted Clipper as payment; however this program is discontinued as of September 1, 2017.\n\nA number of smaller regional transit agencies have not yet joined Clipper, including ACE and Rio Vista Delta Breeze.\n\nClipper utilizes an NXP Semiconductors MIFARE DESFire (MF3ICD40) or MIFARE DESFire EV1 (MF3ICD41) integrated circuit to manufacture the card. The card operates on the 13.56 MHz range putting it into the Near Field Communication category (rather than RFID, as is commonly misconceived). Because the card uses NFC technology, any NFC-enabled device can read the serial number, travel history, and current balance on the card. However, data cannot be written to the card without the proper encryption key, preventing unauthorized access to funds on the card. The former Translink cards, while still functional on the fare system readers, do not conform to MIFARE and are unreadable by 13.56 MHz readers.\n\nBecause Clipper operates in multiple geographical areas with sporadic or non-existent internet access, the fare collection and verification technology needs to operate without any networking. To accomplish this, the Clipper card memory keeps track of balance on the card, fares paid, and trip history. Unfortunately, this also means if funds are added to the Clipper account via the internet, funds will not show up on the clipper card until it has been scanned at an internet-enabled (or recently synchronized) device. Buses and other vehicles without internet access will have to return to a service station in order to synchronize with Clipper’s servers. During synchronization, the payment collection device will upload to the server data about any fares collected, and will download information about new account balances. Riders who scan their card at a recently synchronized payment collection device will have their card updated to reflect their true account balance.\n\nThe waiting period between synchronizations may cause some cards to report lower funds than are actually on the corresponding Clipper account. In order to alleviate this problem, Clipper allows riders to go as low as −$11.25 on the card before funds need to be added, and/or the card needs to be scanned at an internet-enabled or recently synchronized device.\n\nIn 2014, the MTC started an initiative to design the next generation version of the Clipper system, nicknamed \"C2\" or \"Clipper 2.0\".\n\nThe current contract with Cubic for the existing Clipper system expired in 2019, and the system architecture dates from the 1990s. These factors led the MTC to start developing a next generation system that is planned to begin operation in 2021. The new system will include a mobile app, expected in 2021, that will enable mobile ticketing on the Clipper system. The new system may additionally integrate with additional electronic payment systems such as digital wallets.\n\nIn 2017, a request for proposal was issued for the project with proposals due in 2018.\nTransit advocates such as SPUR have called on the MTC to use the C2 planning as an opportunity to simplify and integrate fares on a regional level to improve the experience for transit customers.\nThe upgrade is funded in part by $50 million from Regional Measure 3, a bridge toll increase approved in June 2018.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1857324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857324", "title": "Association of Professional Schools of International Affairs", "text": "Association of Professional Schools of International Affairs\n\nThe Association of Professional Schools of International Affairs (APSIA) is a non-profit educational organization of graduate schools of international affairs, with 38 members around the world.\n\nStarting as a network of American graduate schools in the mid-1970s, APSIA was incorporated in 1989 and grew into an international association, with over 60 schools. Member schools meet on a regular basis to discuss educational issues and encourage contact among their students, faculties, and graduates.\n\nThe Association of Professional Schools of International Affairs comprises 34 member schools and 36 affiliate member programs in Asia, Europe, and North America. Full members of APSIA have undergone a rigorous review process and meet the following qualifications required for full APSIA membership:\n\nAffiliate members of APSIA have undergone a similar review process and meet some but not all of the full membership requirements.\n\nThe member schools of the APSIA are the primary sources of education for international affairs professionals in their respective countries. These schools provide multidisciplinary, policy-oriented, intercultural studies.\n\nEducation at an APSIA school prepares students for work in public service, private enterprise and nonprofit organizations worldwide. Graduates of APSIA schools hold positions in:\n\n\nAll APSIA schools offer two-year master's degree programs, covering international relations, public policy, and the world's countries and cultures. Students gain skills in economics, policy analysis, management, communications, and foreign languages.\n\nMany APSIA schools offer joint and dual-degree programs that combine the study of international affairs with such fields as law, business, public policy, environmental studies, social work and public health.\n\n\nMost students at the APSIA schools have studied, worked or traveled overseas. Half are women, and 30 percent are nationals of countries other than the school's.\n\n\nThrough their research, writing, teaching and media commentaries, APSIA faculty members contribute to international affairs scholarship.\n\n\nMidcareer and non-degree programs are open to diplomats, government officials, journalists and other professionals interested in further academic training. APSIA schools sponsor a variety of conferences and seminars on foreign policy issues.\n\n\nThe Fellowship provides graduate students at APSIA member schools the opportunity to spend a summer working on foreign affairs issues at a U.S. federal government agency or department. Established in 1977 in memory of Harold Wallace Rosenthal, a US Congressional staffer and victim of international terrorism while on official duty, the Program had hosted 155 Fellows . The European Union Visitors Program (EVP) has selected a minimum of one Rosenthal Fellow every year as an \"EVP\" Fellow since the inception of the program.\n\nFellows are selected based on their commitment to public service, education, interest in international relations, and experience.\n\nRun in association with APSIA, the Rosenthal Fellowship receives support from a number of individual donors as well as the Rotary Foundation. It formerly received support from the Rockefeller Brothers Fund. Fellows are current graduate students in international affairs of any nationality nominated by their schools.\n\n\nThe Japan Travel Program allows US graduate students interested in Japan, the U.S.-Japan relationship, and public service to spend ten days in Japan. Program Fellows meet with experts and leaders from the business, government, non-profit, and policy sectors. Participants also engage in self-organized research activities in such areas as international economics, foreign policy, public diplomacy, national security, and environmental sustainability. They make excursions to historical and cultural Japanese sites.\n\nThe Fellows are graduate students from U.S.-based APSIA member schools who have been chosen through a highly competitive selection process. Students are nominated by their school (up to two nominations per school), with the final selection carried out by the Center for Global Partnership (CGP) in conjunction with APSIA.\n\nAPSIA serves as both a resource for employers who are looking to post job opportunities for students with an international affairs background and for students who are looking for career opportunities. Through APSIA and its member schools, employers can:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1857341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857341", "title": "Miltonia", "text": "Miltonia\n\nMiltonia, abbreviated Milt. in the horticultural trade, is an orchid genus comprising twelve epiphyte species and eight natural hybrids. The miltonias are exclusively inhabitants of Brazil, except for one species whose range extends from Brazil into the northeast of Argentina and the east of Paraguay.\n\nThe genus of \"Miltonia\" was established by John Lindley in 1837, when he described its type species, \"Miltonia spectabilis\". Formerly many more species were attributed to \"Miltonia\", however, beginning in 1978, the miltonias from Central America and from cooler areas of northwest South America have been moved to other genera, including Miltoniopsis and Oncidium, and these changes are still in the process of being accepted by the horticultural trade.\n\n\"Miltonia\" species have large and long lasting flowers, often in multifloral inflorescences. This fact, allied to being species that are easy to grow and to identify, make them a favorite of orchid collectors all over the world. Species of this genus are extensively used to produce artificial hybrids.\n\nDespite the fact that \"Miltonia\" is now a well established genus, most of its species were originally classified under other genera as \"Cyrtochilum\", \"Oncidium\", \"Odontoglossum\", and \"Brassia\". All were discovered between 1834 and 1850 with the exception of \"M. kayasimae\", discovered only in 1976.\n\nThese orchids have two leaves, arising from a pseudobulb, covered with a foliaceous sheath. The inflorescence consists of waxy, nonspurred flowers. The lip is large and flat and lacks a callus at its base. They possess a footless column with two hard pollinia. The flowers have a delicate, exotic scent, some compare to that of roses.\n\nThey are named after Charles Wentworth-Fitzwilliam, 5th Earl Fitzwilliam, formerly Viscount Milton, an English aristocrat, politician, patron of science and horticulture, and orchid enthusiast.\n\nThe species in this genus are sometimes referred to as the pansy orchids, but it is the \"Miltoniopsis\" orchids that have flowers that closely resemble the pansy. Almost everyone except for the most serious orchid hobbyists use the name pansy orchids interchangeably, which may cause confusion.\n\n\"Miltonia\" looks more like \"Oncidiums\" than the other pansy orchids. The most \"pansy-like\" a \"Miltonia\" can get is the species \"Miltonia spectabilis\". Taxonomists are debating whether to combine \"Miltonia\" with the genus \"Oncidium\" because of the many connections between the two.\n\n\"Miltoniopsis\" is the pansy orchid with huge showy flowers. They grow in cooler climates and are more challenging to grow than \"Miltonia\".\n\nThis genus forms with \"Miltoniopsis\" a hybrid genus x\"Milmiltonia\" J.M.H.Shaw.\n\n\"Miltonia\" species range starts on the area of Missiones in the northeast of Argentina and east of Paraguay and spreads north along the Brazilian mountains of Serra do Mar and its branches up to the State of Pernambuco on Brazilian northeast. They occupy mostly areas between 200 and 1,500 meters of altitude meters, however the majority of the species are more often found about 600 to 900 meters. \"Miltonia\" species can be found from shady areas inside the forest to areas more exposed to the sun, however never are under full sunlight; usually in ventilated places where they receive plenty humidity during the night and early morning. They are always epiphyte and, because they grow very fast, each pseudobulb originating two new growths every year, they soon form large colonies.\n\n\"Miltonia russelliana\" and \"M. flavescens\" are the ones with the widest dispersion and found at lower altitudes. \"M. flavescens\" is the only species that exists in countries other than Brazil and is also the one that spreads farther north. \"M. russelliana\" range starts on Rio Grande do Sul and ends at Bahia State. \"M. regnellii\" is also widespread although does not go northern than Rio de Janeiro. \"M. moreliana\" is a species more common at lower altitudes and warmer areas existing from Rio to Pernambuco. \"Miltonia candida\", \"M. clowesii\" and \"M. spectabilis\" are restricted to the four states of Region Southeast of Brazil. \"Miltonia cuneata\" is just from São Paulo and Rio and the one that grow at highest altitudes. \"M. kayasimae\" is the only species really rare; it has been found just a couple of times in a very restricted area close to Salesópolis, in São Paulo State. The mountains area between São Paulo and Rio de Janeiro, where almost all species do exist may be considered the center of distribution of \"Miltonia\".\n\n\"Miltonia\" are comparatively medium large orchid plants reaching about fifty centimeters height. They present subcaespitous growth, that means their pseudobulbs are not tightly packed but slightly spaced by a rhizome, that is longer than on caespitous plants, with length between two and five centimeters. Their roots grow along the rhizome in high numbers. They are white, comparatively thin, usually short and hardly branched. The rhizome is covered by dried imbricating steaths which get increasingly larger at the base of pseudobulb becoming articulated foliar steaths that partially cover them. The pseudobulbs and leaves vary in color from yellowish bright light green to olive green depending on the species and to the amount of sunlight they are exposed to. They may be more oval and laterally highly flattened to slightly tetragonal and elongated and almost always bear two apical leaves. The leaves are narrow, flexible and hardly larger than three centimeters wide and forty long with the apexes rounded sometimes slightly pointed. Some species are about half of this size. The inflorescences are one or two per pseudobulb, shoot from their bases behind the protecting steaths. They are erect and never branched, often longer than the leaves, bearing from one to twelve moderately spaced flowers that open at the same time or in succession holding three or four opened all the time, when the older fades a new one opens. The older flowers of species with white lips that open in succession usually get yellower about the time the next flower opens although they still last one more week before fading. The first to bloom is \"M. cuneata\", during late winter, but the majority of species bloom from late spring to late summer.\n\nThe flowers of \"Miltonia\" vary from four to fifteen centimeters across; the larger are the ones with fewer flowers. Their colors vary from entirely white and pink to dark purple, pale yellow or lilac when plain, or they may highly spotted but then usually they are greenish or brownish with a contrasting labellum often white with purple dots, stains or veins close to the base. The petals and sepals shapes are highly variable from species to species but always somewhat similar to each other within a species. They may be erect and flat or sometimes less open. The labellum is simple or very slightly lobed, usually very wide and showy without salient calli although normally showing more or less subtle keeled thickenings close to the base, usually of different colors; it is much larger and wider than the other segments, often flat but in \"M. candida\" embraces the column and in all species it is slightly fused to the column at their bases. The short column does not have a foot and presents two lateral auricles sometimes merged to each other through a fringe that surrounds the superior edge of the clinandrium. The anther is apical and bears two yellow hard pollinia. They possibly are pollinated by bees.\n\nThe first species to be described, among the ones today classified under the genus \"Miltonia\", was originally published by John Lindley, in 1834, as \"Cyrtochilum flavescens\". In this description Lindley notices that the flowers of this species turn orange color when drying and, for some confusion regarding the origin of the species, attributes it to Mexico instead of Brazil. Two years later Lindley described another \"Miltonia\" species but, then, under the genus \"Oncidium\", as \"O. russellianum\" in homage to Duke of Bedford. When describing this plant, Lindley considered it as a \"transition species\" pointing out that it was very different from the average \"Oncidium\" because of its purple colors and undivided lip.\n\nIn 1837, Lindley received from Mr. Loddiges and from George Baker two other specimens of a very distinctive new species. Recognizing then this should in fact be a new genus, he proposed the name \"Miltonia\" to it as a homage to Charles Wentworth-Fitzwilliam, 5th Earl Fitzwilliam, formerly Viscount Milton, an English orchid enthusiast. Lindley states then that the limits between a number of Oncidiinae genera, \"Cyrtochilum\", \"Oncidium\", \"Odontoglossum\", \"Brassia\" and \"Miltonia\", at that time classified as Vandaea, were yet to be perfectly established; although closely related, the differences should possibly be: \"Oncidium\" has a column with two ears and labellum distinctively lobed; \"Miltonia\" has a column with two ears and an entire labellum partially united to the column base; \"Odontoglossum\" and \"Cyrtochilum\" have winged columns and entire labelli but the former has it partially united to the column; and \"Brassia\" does not have any appendages on the column. Although Lindley described the genus \"Aspasia\" (which is the most closely related to \"Miltonia\") in 1833, both by flower and vegetative morphologies, he did not mention it on his \"Miltonia\" description.\n\nThree other Botanists were working with \"Miltonia\" species around the time Lindley described this genus. All recognized these plants should be classified under a new genus and, as communications were slower then, all proposed new genera: Knowles and Westcott also received also a plant of \"M. spectabilis\" and, just one month after Lindley, proposed for it the genus \"Macrochilus\", calling the species \"Macrochilus fryanus\"; the other one was Rafinescque who, in 1838, decided that the \"Oncidium russellianum\" already described by Lindley in 1836 should be under another genus and created for it the genus \"Gynizodon\". Both \"Macrochilus\" and \"Gynizodon\" are synonyms of \"Miltonia\" and no other species has ever been submitted to them.\nAs \"Miltonia\" species are common plants, comparatively large, with also large flowers of bright colors, that, moreover, are spread mostly over an area of early settlements in Brazil all species but one were already described in 1850; six of them by Lindley, \"M. regnellii\" by Reichenbach and \"M. moreliana\" by Achille Richard. Despite the early description of \"M. moreliana\" in 1848, and two other as \"M. rosea\" by Lemaire in 1867, and as \"M. warneri\" by George Nicholson in 1886, Arthur Henfrey reduced it to a variety of \"Miltonia spectabilis\" in 1851, and as such it was considered until 2002, when Cássio van den Berg reestablished it as a distinct species. The last \"Miltonia\" species to be discovered was \"M. kayasimae\", found by an orchid collector not far from the city of São Paulo, in an area around nine hundred meters of altitude nearby the top of Serra do Mar mountains. It was named after their collector by Guido Pabst in 1976. So far very few plants were found, all living at the same area.\n\nSince the genus \"Miltonia\" was established, many species, now classified under a number other genera, were submitted to it. The most noticeable cases were four of the five species of \"Miltoniopsis\", a genus proposed in 1889 but only really accepted in 1976. Despite its somewhat similar flowers, \"Miltoniopsis\" are from cooler forests on the Andean slopes closely related to \"Cyrtochilum\" and only remotely related to \"Miltonia\". Also five of the six \"Miltonioides\" species were occasionally considered as \"Miltonia\" until 1983 when Brieger and Lückel proposed this genus for them. These are species of more delicate and narrower flowers, from Mexico and Central America, which some taxonomists claim might be better classified under the genus \"Oncidium\" to whom they are closely related. The last common species which was occasionally classified under \"Miltonia\" is \"Chamaeleorchis warszewiczii\", which is related to \"Oncidium\" and some taxonomists identify as \"Oncidium fuscatum\".\n\nIn 1983, Brieger and Lueckel, considering that four species of \"Miltonia\", \"M. candida\", \"M. cuneata\", \"M. kayasimae\" and \"M. russelliana\", show the junction of the labellum with the column in a different angle than the other species, proposed the genus \"Anneliesia\" for them. Although this four species form a small sister clade to the rest of \"Miltonia\" species, the difference did not seem important enough to justify the acceptance of this new genus, therefore this proposal has not been generally accepted by the scientific community.\n\nIn 2001, based on molecular analysis, Norris Williams and Mark Chase, transferred a species previously classified under the genus \"Oncidium\", as \"O. phymatochilum\", to \"Miltonia\". As this species shows a morphology that closer to \"Oncidium\" species than to \"Miltonia\", because of its small yellowish flowers and highly branched inflorescence, this result and following transfer was a great surprise to most taxonomists. In 2005, Eric Christenson suggested a new genus and the name \"Phymatochilum brasiliense\" for it. There is no consensus about the name to be generally accepted as yet.\n\nMolecular analysis show that \"Miltonia\" most closely related genus is \"Phymatochilum\" and then \"Aspasia\", \"Brassia\" and \"Ada\", which are the most important genera included in this that is one of the eight clades that form the subtribus Oncidiinae of tribus Cymbidieae.\n\nThe species of \"Miltonia\" show many differences to each other are very easy to identify, therefore, just the most evident differences are mentioned here; more details are given on individual species articles. The species are presented here according to their morphology and this order keeps no correspondence with phylogenetic relationships.\n\nRegarding vegetative morphology \"Miltonia moreliana\" and \"Miltonia spectabilis\" can be immediately separated from the rest because their much flatter pseudobulbs, longer rhizome and inflorescences completely covered by flattened bracts that bear only one highly flat flower. These are the species with largest flowers in the genus. They are closely related and usually are recognized because the flowers of \"M. moreliana\" usually have dark purple petals and sepals and the lip of a lighter bright purple while \"M. spectabilis\" has very light purple or white petals and sepals and a purple veined labellum, however, the real technical difference among the species is on the proportions of their segments which are much wider. Despite colors are often mentioned to identify species they are not accepted by taxonomy as enough to establish distinct species by themselves. All other \"Miltonia\" species have similar vegetative appearance and only can be positively identified by their flowers.\n\nThree species are unique: \"Miltonia flavescens\" has the most narrow flowers, almost star shaped, with all segments of straw color with some purple bots on the base of petals and sepals which are more intense on the labellum almost forming stripes; \"Miltonia candida\" is the only species with a labellum that embraces the column in a way that reminds the \"Cattleya\" species; \"Miltonia russelliana\" is the less showy of \"Miltonia\" species because its sepals and petals do not really open, being always bent over the column, revealing only the lighter tip of its purple labellum.\n\n\"Miltonia regnellii\" shows the widest flower color variation among all \"Miltonia\" species; they can vary from white to yellow, pink and lilac with labelli also varying from white to dark purple. The flowers open in succession and slightly resemble the ones of \"M. spectabilis\" although much smaller. They actually are the \"Miltonia\" species with the smallest flowers.\n\n\"Miltonia kayasimae\" and \"Miltonia cuneata\" are somewhat similar and possibly are closely related, both have straw color petals and sepals almost entirely covered by large brown stains and white labelli, however, they show different proportions on the flowers segments. \"M. kayasimae\" has much wider petals and sepals and smaller labellum which, moreover, has a larger and more salient and complex entirely purple callus on its base which is delicate, more straight and simple, and just occasionally purple dotted on its apex on \"M. cuneata\".\n\n\"Miltonia clowesii\" has the same color pattern of \"M. russelliana\" with light yellow greenish brown sepals and petals completely covered with large darker dots or stains and labellum of bright purple at the base and lighter apex, however here they are whiter. On the other hand, \"M. clowesii\" flowers' pointed segments are larger and wide opened making it resemble a spider.\n\nConsidering its limited number of species, it is surprising that eight natural hybrids of \"Miltonia\" are currently known, a number that almost equals the number of species and also implies that the most important pollinator of the majority of the species possibly is the same. As the crossing of two species uses to produce variable plants most of these hybrids have been described more than once and some have three or four synonyms. \n\"M. spectabilis\" is the species which has produced the largest number of hybrids, five: \"Miltonia × bluntii\" when crossed with \"M. clowesii\", \"Miltonia × cogniauxiae\" with \"M. regnellii\", \"Miltonia × flava\" with \"M. flavescens\", \"Miltonia × leucoglossa\" with \"M. candida\" and \"Miltonia × rosina\" with \"M. cuneata\", furthermore it is possible there is also one with \"M. moreliana\", which has not yet been described because \"M. moreliana\" itself was earlier considered a variety of \"M. spectabilis\".\n\n\"M. candida\", besides the hybrid already mentioned with \"M. spectabilis\", also produced two others: \"Miltonia × binotii\" with \"M. regnellii\" and \"Miltonia × lamarckeana\" with \"M. clowesii\". The remaining hybrid, \"Miltonia × peetersiana\" was previously considered a synonym of \"M. × bluntii\" but because \"M. moreliana\" is now a species distinct from \"M. spectabilis\" it is its hybrid with \"M. clowesii\", which has entirely purple flowers instead the one with light brown petals and sepals.\n\n\nDespite being easy to grow, \"Miltonia\" species tend to be subject to spots on their thin leaves, generally caused by fungi proliferation and normally, when exposed to the amount of light they need to a full bloom, their foliage gets a bit too yellow-colored, although they should never be exposed to full sunlight. Finding the right balance of light exposure to avoid yellow leaves but still produce nice blooming is important and with some precautions the grower will succeed. They are not terribly sensitive to temperature, but they do vary according to their species make-up and origin; \"M. cuneata\" being one that grows cooler and \"M. moreliana\" the warmer growing, but all species under intermediate temperature with at least 10 °C of variation between day and night. Despite the fact that they exhibit a rest period after blooming, \"Miltonia\" always need to be watered, and more abundantly during active growth and blooming. they need at least 65% relative humidity and good ventilation all the time. Moderate weekly fertilizing with a balanced formula is beneficial during active growth. They may be potted in a compost of half-chopped Sphagnum, peat, and some medium-sized lumps of charcoal, or mounted on plaques of vegetable fiber, however if mounted they will need more frequent waterings.\n\nHybrids between \"Miltonia\" and orchids from other genera are placed in the following nothogenera:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1857343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857343", "title": "Gateway Design Automation", "text": "Gateway Design Automation\n\n\"Verilog HDL originated at Automated Integrated Design Systems (later renamed as Gateway Design Automation) in 1985. The company was privately held at that time by Dr. Prabhu Goel, the inventor of the PODEM (Path-Oriented Decision Making) test generation algorithm. Verilog HDL was designed by Phil Moorby, who was later to become the Chief Designer for Verilog-XL and the first Corporate Fellow at Cadence Design Systems. Gateway Design Automation grew rapidly with the success of Verilog-XL and was finally acquired by Cadence Design Systems, San Jose, CA in 1989.\"\n"}
{"id": "1857347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857347", "title": "Treaty of Fort Jackson", "text": "Treaty of Fort Jackson\n\nThe Treaty of Fort Jackson (also known as the Treaty with the Creeks, 1814) was signed on August 9, 1814 at Fort Jackson near Wetumpka, Alabama following the defeat of the Red Stick (Upper Creek) resistance by United States allied forces at the Battle of Horseshoe Bend. It occurred on the banks of the Tallapoosa River near the present city of Alexander City, Alabama. The U.S. force, led by General Andrew Jackson, consisted mainly of the West Tennessee Militia and 39th United States Infantry, allied with several groups of Cherokee and Lower Creek friendly to the American side. The Upper Creek were led by Chief Menawa, who fled with hundreds of survivors into Florida, where they allied with the Seminole. The surrender ended the Creek War, which the United States was fighting simultaneously with the War of 1812.\n\nBy the terms of the treaty, the Creek were forced to cede 23 million acres (93,000 km²) of their territory: their remaining land in Georgia and much of central Alabama, to the United States government. This definitive victory freed Jackson to continue southwest to Louisiana, where he defeated the British forces at the Battle of New Orleans. His victories against Native American forces and then his decisive victory at New Orleans won Jackson an enormous amount of popular support, creating a public image that would contribute to his success in the 1828 presidential election.\n\n\"Articles of agreement and capitulation, made and concluded this ninth day of August, one thousand eight hundred and fourteen, between major general Andrew Jackson, on behalf of the President of the United States of America, and the chiefs, deputies, and warriors of the Creek Nation.\n\nWHEREAS an unprovoked, inhuman, and sanguinary war, waged by the hostile Creeks against the United States, hath been repelled, prosecuted and determined, successfully, on the part of the said States, in conformity with principles of national justice and honorable warfare—And whereas consideration is due to the rectitude of proceeding dictated by instructions relating to the re-establishment of peace: Be it remembered, that prior to the conquest of that part of the Creek nation hostile to the United States, numberless aggressions had been committed against the peace, the property, and the lives of citizens of the United States, and those of the Creek nation in amity with her, at the mouth of Duck river, Fort Mimms, and elsewhere, contrary to national faith, and the regard due to an article of the treaty concluded at New-York, in the year seventeen hundred ninety, between the two nations: That the United States, previously to the perpetration of such outrages, did, in order to ensure future amity and concord between the Creek nation and the said states, in conformity with the stipulations of former treaties, fulfill, with punctuality and good faith, her engagements to the said nation: that more than two-thirds of the whole number of chiefs and warriors of the Creek nation, disregarding the genuine spirit of existing treaties, suffered themselves to be instigated to violations of their national honor, and the respect due to a part of their own nation faithful to the United States and the principles of humanity, by impostures [impostors,] denominating themselves Prophets, and by the duplicity and misrepresentation of foreign emissaries, whose governments are at war, open or understood, with the United States. Wherefore,\n\n1st—The United States demand an equivalent for all expenses incurred in prosecuting the war to its termination, by a cession of all the territory belonging to the Creek nation within the territories of the United States, lying west, south, and south-eastwardly, of a line to be run and described by persons duly authorized and appointed by the President of the United States:\n\n2nd—The United States will guarantee to the Creek nation, the integrity of all their territory eastwardly and northwardly of the said line to be run and described as mentioned in the first article.\n\n3d—The United States demand, that the Creek nation abandon all communication, and cease to hold any intercourse with any British or Spanish post, garrison, or town; and that they shall not admit among them, any agent or trader, who shall not derive authority to hold commercial, or other intercourse with them, by license from the President or authorized agent of the United States.\n\n4th—The United States demand an acknowledgment of the right to establish military posts and trading houses, and to open roads within the territory, guaranteed to the Creek nation by the second article, and a right to the free navigation of all its waters.\n\n5th—The United States demand, that a surrender be immediately made, of all the persons and property, taken from the citizens of the United States, the friendly part of the Creek nation, the Cherokee, Chickasaw, and Choctaw nations, to the respective owners; and the United States will cause to be immediately restored to the formerly hostile Creeks, all the property taken from them since their submission, either by the United States, or by any Indian nation in amity with the United States, together with all the prisoners taken from them during the war.\n\n6th—The United States demand the caption and surrender of all the prophets and instigators of the war, whether foreigners or natives, who have not submitted to the arms of the United States, and become parties to these articles of capitulation, if ever they shall be found within the territory guaranteed to the Creek nation by the second article.\n\n7th—The Creek nation being reduced to extreme want, and not at present having the means of subsistence, the United States, from motives of humanity, will continue to furnish gratuitously the necessaries of life, until the crops of corn can be considered competent to yield the nation a supply, and will establish trading houses in the nation, at the discretion of the President of the United States, and at such places as he shall direct, to enable the nation, by industry and economy, to procure clothing.\n\n8th—A permanent peace shall ensue from the date of these presents forever, between the Creek nation and the United States, and between the Creek nation and the Cherokee, Chickasaw, and Choctaw nations.\n\n9th—If in running east from the mouth of Summochico creek, it shall so happen that the settlement of the Kennards, fall within the lines of the territory hereby ceded, then, and in that case, the line shall be run east on a true meridian to Kitchofoonee creek, thence down the middle of said creek to its junction with Flint River, immediately below the Oakmulgee town, thence up the middle of Flint river to a point due east of that at which the above line struck the Kitchofoonee creek, thence east to the old line herein before mentioned, to wit: the line dividing the lands claimed by the Creek nation, from those claimed and owned by the state of Georgia. The parties to these presents, after due consideration, for themselves and their constituents, agree to ratify and confirm the preceding articles, and constitute them the basis of a permanent peace between the two nations; and they do hereby solemnly bind themselves, and all the parties concerned and interested, to a faithful performance of every stipulation contained therein.\n\nIn testimony whereof, they have hereunto, interchangeably, set their hands and affixed their seals, the day and date above written.\n\nDone at fort Jackson, in presence of--\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1857352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857352", "title": "Busan Metro Line 1", "text": "Busan Metro Line 1\n\nBusan Metro Line 1 is the north-south route of the Busan Metro. It is long with 40 stations, and is considered the second longest line of the Busan Metro system, just behind Line 2. But with Line 1 going to regions such as Jagalchi Station, Busan Station, Seomyeon Station, Dongnae Station, and Nopo Station, it is deemed as the most popular line of all of the Busan Metro system. Line 1 uses 8-car trains. The line color is orange.\n\nPlans to create this line began in 1979. In 2009, Busan Transportation Corporation planned to complete the fifth section extension of the metro line by late 2013, but later on postponed it to November 2016.\n\n\n\n\n\nThe hours of operation of Line 1 start at 5:05 for the ride from Sinpyeong to Nopo at Sinpyeong Station and 5:10 for Nopo to Sinpyeong at Nopo Station. The hours end with the last trains arriving in Sinpyeong at 00:35 and Nopo at 00:30. A ride through the entire line takes about 1 hour 2 minutes.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857353", "title": "R51 (South Africa)", "text": "R51 (South Africa)\n\nThe R51 is a provincial route in South Africa that connects Bapsfontein with the N3 between Villiers and Heidelberg.\n\nThe Route begins at Bapsfontein, Ekurhuleni, Gauteng at the 4-way intersection with the R25 Route and the R50 Route. As Pretoria Road, it heads south-south-west for 10km up to Petit (East of Kempton Park and north-east of Benoni), where it meets the M44 Metropolitan Route and continues by way of a left turn to become Geldenhuys Street southwards. After 4km, the R51 continues by way of a right turn at Aloe Road to become Kingsway Road, bypassing Benoni Farms.\n\nAs Kingsway Road, it makes up the western border of Daveyton, separating it from Benoni Farms, before crossing the N12 Highway (Johannesburg-eMalahleni Highway). Just after the N12 Crossing (by Kingsway), the R51 is joined by the R29 Route from Benoni Central and they are one road southwards for 5km before splitting in the vicinity of Springs (the R29 becomes 4th Avenue eastwards). By Wright Park, at the eastern terminus of the R554, the R51 turns eastwards and by Springs Country Club, the R51 turns southwards.\n\nFrom Springs, the R51 crosses the N17 Highway and makes a 20km journey south to Nigel. From Springs to Nigel, the R51 is followed by and is parallel to the M63 Metropolitan Route. In Nigel, at the main 4-way junction before the Glenverloch Suburb, the R51 joins the road going east and is cosigned with the R42 Route and the R550 Route for 2 kilometres, making up the northern border of the Nigel CBD. At the Balfour Road Junction, the R51 and the R550 split from the R42 Road to become the road heading south-east. After the Laversburg suburb, just after crossing the Blesbokspruit, the R550 becomes its own road eastwards, leaving Balfour Road with the R51 designation.\n\nFrom Nigel, the R51 makes a south-south-easterly 33km journey, crossing into Mpumalanga Province, meeting the R548, to Balfour. It enters Balfour southwards as Joubert Street, before turning east, then south at Dyer Street to cross the Balfour Railway southwards. After the Railway crossing, it makes a right turn at Johnny Mokoena Drive and then a left turn to become Joubert Street again.\n\nSouth of Balfour, the R51 meets the bypassing R23 Heidelberg-Standerton Road at a roundabout. From Balfour, The R51 makes a southward 40km journey, passing Grootvlei and its power station, making a left turn, to end at the N3 Johannesburg-Durban Highway (In Mpumalanga, just north of the Vaal River, which separates it from the town of Villiers in the Free State Province on the other side). It meets the eastern end of the R54 Route from Vereeniging at the same place.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857355", "title": "Gabby Gator", "text": "Gabby Gator\n\nGabby Gator is an animated cartoon character, an anthropomorphic alligator who appeared in several cartoons produced by Walter Lantz and distributed by Universal Pictures.\n\nGabby lives in the Okiedokie Swamp, which is a play on Lake Okeechobee and is near Cape Canaveral. Unfortunately for him, this place does not have many food options, and Gabby is forced to attract the food (usually Woody Woodpecker) to his home and attempt to capture him with anything he might have at hand, including highly advanced technology. Though Gabbie Gator is intelligent and crafty, Woody always escapes, usually leaving Gabby with his home destroyed. The strangest thing about Gabby Gator is that he seems to have a vast supply of carrots, which are useless for a carnivorous reptile.\n\nGabby is a green alligator who has a yellow or green stomach and snout, depending on the episode, wears a red or purple hat, also depending on the episode, wears a yellow vest, and has two fangs poking out of his muzzle. He speaks with a southern accent, similar to that of Hanna-Barbera's Huckleberry Hound.\n\nGabby Gator first appeared as \"Ali Gator\" in the 1958 short \"Everglade Raid\". In that short, Gabby—or \"Ali\"—tries to cook Woody for lunch. \"Ali\" appeared again in 1959's \"Romp in a Swamp\". Gabby's first official appearance under his definitive name was in \"Southern Fried Hospitality,\" when he hadn't eaten much lately and caught Woody to stave off his starvation.\n\nGabby did not become as famous as Woody's renowned enemies like Buzz Buzzard and Wally Walrus. His final theatrical appearance was in \"Greedy Gabby Gator\" in 1963. Ms. Meany more or less replaced him as the recurring villain of the moment.\n\nGabby Gator appeared later as a minor character in an episode of \"The New Woody Woodpecker Show\" voiced by Jeff Bennett.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857356", "title": "Busan Metro Line 2", "text": "Busan Metro Line 2\n\nBusan Metro Line 2 () is a line of the Busan Metro that crosses Busan, South Korea, from east to west, running along the shores of Haeundae and Gwanganli, and then north toward Yangsan. The line is long with 43 stations. The line uses trains that have six cars each.\n\nA ride through the entire line takes about 1 hour 24 minutes. Busan Metro Line 2 will be expanded from Jangsan Station to East Busan Tourism Complex in Gijang County which will be opened in 2021. (Currently Planned)\n\nPlans to create the line began in 1987 and were finalized by 1991. During the construction of the third section of the line in 2001, the original plan to extend the route three stations beyond Yangsan Station was scrapped at the request of the citizens of Yangsan, with a new light rail line currently undergoing approval as an alternative.\n\nAn older plan hoped to stretch the line four stations beyond Jangsan Station, but was scrapped due to cost concerns. The extension idea has gained new interest, but with proposals for a new light rail line connecting Jangsan Station to the city of Ulsan.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1857357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857357", "title": "R52 (South Africa)", "text": "R52 (South Africa)\n\nThe R52 is a provincial route in South Africa that connects Sannieshof with Rustenburg via Lichtenburg and Koster.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857358", "title": "List of Woody Woodpecker merchandise", "text": "List of Woody Woodpecker merchandise\n\n"}
{"id": "1857362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857362", "title": "R53 (South Africa)", "text": "R53 (South Africa)\n\nThe R53 is a provincial route in South Africa that connects Swartruggens with Parys via Ventersdorp and Potchefstroom.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857363", "title": "Dave Rodgers", "text": "Dave Rodgers\n\nDave Rodgers (born Giancarlo Pasquini, February 21, 1963) is an Italian songwriter, composer, and producer known for his contributions to the Eurobeat genre of dance music. Born in Mantua, Italy, he formed Aleph before contributing to the long-running Super Eurobeat series. He owns Rodgers Studio and A-Beat C Productions alongside Alberto Contini.\n\nIn 2006, he released \"Blow Your Mind\" under the Rodgers alias, incorporating rock components in the album. \nIn 2011 he leaves all in the hands of Evelin Malferrari, during this time, Evelin established a new Eurobeat label called Sun Fire Records, where Dave helped Evelin to write a few songs.\n\nSome of his songs, most notably \"Déjà Vu\", are featured in the anime \"Initial D\", which contributed to the popularity of eurobeat music.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1857364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857364", "title": "R54 (South Africa)", "text": "R54 (South Africa)\n\nThe R54 is a provincial route in South Africa that connects Potchefstroom with Villiers via Vereeniging.\n\nThe R54 begins at a junction with the N12 Road 9 kilometres north-east of Potchefstroom, North West. It heads eastwards, crossing into Gauteng Province and meeting the R500 Road. 62km from Potchefstroom, the R54 passes under the N1 Kroonvaal Toll Route and enters the Vaal Triangle.\n\nNorth of Vanderbijlpark (South of Sebokeng; just after the N1 overbridge), the R54 meets the R553 Road and the R28 Route. The R28 Route stops cosigning with the R553 Road southwards and begins cosigning with the R54 Road eastwards towards Vereeniging, bypassing Vanderbijlpark. After 6km, the R54 becomes its own road eastwards as Houtkop Road, bypassing Vereeniging Central, leaving the R28 as the road towards Vereeniging Central.\n\nNext, the R54 has a 4-way-junction with the R82 Road (Voortrekker Street) from Johannesburg at the northern end of Vereeniging Central, right next to the R59 Sybrand van Niekerk Freeway Off-ramp. At Klip River Drive, The R54 makes a left turn and makes up the northern border of the Three Rivers suburb. North of Three Rivers East, the R54 meets the R42 Road from Heidelberg and they are cosigned southwards up to the next junction, where the R42 becomes its own road into Three Rivers (General Hertzog Road), leaving the R54 as the road south-east.\n\nThe R54 makes a 21km journey to meet the R549 Road at the north-western corner of the Vaal Dam. It continues another 50km, following the Vaal River, bypassing Vaal Marina, to end in Mpumalanga Province at an intersection with the N3 Johannesburg-Durban Freeway, in the area where the Vaal River makes up its border with Villiers, Free State. It meets the southern terminus of the R51 Route at the same place.\n\nJust before the N3 Interchange, the R54 meets a road which provides access to the town of Villiers in the Free State via a small bridge that only allows cars going one direction to cross it at a time (using a traffic light system). This is the only alternative way to cross the nearby Vaal River (Gauteng-Free State Border) into the town of Villiers apart from the N3.\n\nThe total length of the route from the N12 junction outside Potchefstroom to the N3 Interchange near Villiers is 159 Kilometres.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857365", "title": "Mimulus", "text": "Mimulus\n\nMimulus is a plant genus in the family Phrymaceae, which was traditionally placed in family Scrophulariaceae. The genus now contains only seven species, two native to eastern North America and the other five native to Asia, Australia, Africa, or Madagascar. In the past, about 150 species were placed in this genus, most of which have since been assigned to other genera, the majority to genus \"Erythranthe\". \"Mimulus\" species prefer wet or moist areas and are not drought resistant. Several are cultivated as ornamental garden plants.\n\nBefore the 2012 restructuring, two large groups of species had long been recognized in the genus \"Mimulus\" as it was traditionally defined, with the largest group of species in western North America, and a second group with center of diversity in Australia. In the 2012 restructuring of \"Mimulus\" by Barker, et al., based largely upon DNA evidence, seven species were left in \"Mimulus\", 111 placed into \"Erythranthe\" (species with axile placentation and long pedicels), 46 placed into \"Diplacus\" (species with parietal placentation and sessile flowers), two placed in \"Uvedalia\", and one each placed in \"Elacholoma\", \"Mimetanthe\", and \"Thyridia\".\n\nRemoval of \"Mimulus\" from family Scrophulariaceae has been supported by studies of chloroplast DNA first published in the mid-1990s. Multiple studies of chloroplast DNA and two regions of nuclear rDNA suggest that the genera \"Phryma, Berendtiella, Hemichaena, Leucocarpus, Microcarpeae, Peplidium, Glossostigma, and Elacholoma\" are all derived from within \"Mimulus\" and would need to be rearranged.\n\nThe species remaining in \"Mimulus\" are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1857366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857366", "title": "R55 (South Africa)", "text": "R55 (South Africa)\n\nThe R55 is a north-south provincial route in Gauteng, South Africa that connects Sandton with Pretoria. It passes Woodmead, Kyalami, Olievenhoutbosch, Heuweloord, Sunderland Ridge, Erasmia, Laudium, Claudius, West Park, the Daspoort Tunnel and Danville. It connects with the M1, N14, and R80 highways. It is also designated as the \"P66-1\" and \"K71\" (newly constructed dual carriageway sections) by the Gauteng Provincial Government.\n\nThe southern terminus of R55 begins as a t-junction with the M11/R101 Pretoria Main Road. It then crosses and interchanges the M1 De Villiers Graaff freeway/Ben Schoeman Highway as it heads northwards through Woodmead. Leaving Woodmead, it crosses under the N1 Western Bypass before interchanging with Maxwell Drive (R564 Road) in Sunninghill. It continues into Barbeque Downs before crossing the Jukskei River into Kyalami where M39 Allandale Road intersects. Leaving the Kyalami Estate, the M71 Main Road t-junctions the route. Continuing north-east, it passes through the Blue Hills agricultural holdings crossing Summit Road then passing through the suburb of Olievenhoutbosch. Leaving the latter behind, it intersects the Junction 317 at the N14.\n\nShortly after crossing the N14, it intersects the R114 in the outskirts of Heuwelsig, Centurion at a staggered junction. Heading northwards, the M10 intersects from the route west close to Sunderland Ridge and later the M24 from the east, close to the Zwartkops Raceway. Continuing to Laudium, the M26 intercepts the route just south of the suburb. Leaving Laudium towards the northeast, it enters Pretoria West as Quagga Road where it intersects M22. At this intersection, the R55 then turns north as Transoranje Road passing through West Park and Proclaimation Hill crossing the R104 and shortly thereafter the M4 Magalies Freeway. The R55 Transoranje Road heads north through Danville where it passes through the Daspoort Tunnel.\n\nLeaving the tunnel, it continues north through Claremont, Daspoort and Booysens crossing the R80 intersection and after a short distance ends as a t-junction with Denyssen Avenue in Suiderberg, Northern Pretoria.\n\nAlthough parts of the road in Johannesburg were widened in 2005, other single-lane sections of the route, especially in Centurion, were in a dangerous state, due to the high volumes of traffic and presence of heavy vehicles causing the road surface to deteriorate.\n\nRenovation of a section in Centurion between the N14 and M10/Wierda Road intersection near Sunderland Ridge began in 2007, with construction largely completed by September 2010. The large Monavoni Circle was replaced with traffic lights, and a dual carriageway was built in this section, with surfaced shoulders to replace the existing narrow two-lane single carriageway.\n\nAlso, as a result of a fatal accident the existing N14 offramp from Centurion was converted into a four-way stop temporarily, and traffic lights were later installed.\n\nExtension of the 4 lane dual-carriageway, to replace the section between the M10/Wierda Road intersection and Erasmia, a narrow two-lane single carriageway, passing over the Hennops River, which was overloaded and had severely deteriorated, began in late 2010, and was largely completed by late 2012, along with the installation of lighting on the newly constructed sections, including the previously rebuilt section between Weirda Road and the N14. The remaining provincially maintained (existing) dual-carriageway stretch beyond Erasmia, and part of the municipally-owned section beyond Laudium to the Maunde Street entrance to Atteridgeville was rehabilitated in 2014.\n\nThere are a few roads in Johannesburg which have the R55 designation given to them.\n\nEmpire road from the University of Johannesburg in Auckland Park eastwards across the M1 De Villiers Graaff Motorway and Jan Smuts Avenue has signs on the road indicating the R55 route.\n\nIn Hillbrow, the road starting as Claim Street southwards, becoming Mooi Street in Johannesburg CBD, also has signposts on it indicating the R55 route. From Johannesburg Central south up to Wemmer Pan (where the road meets the western terminus of the N17 Highway), together with being called the M11 road, may also be called the R55 road.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857368", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857368", "title": "Minnehaha", "text": "Minnehaha\n\nMinnehaha is a fictional Native American woman documented in Henry Wadsworth Longfellow's 1855 epic poem \"The Song of Hiawatha\". She is the lover of the titular protagonist Hiawatha and comes to a tragic end. The name, often said to mean \"laughing water\", literally translates to \"waterfall\" or \"rapid water\" in Dakota.\n\nThe figure of Minnehaha inspired later art works such as paintings, sculpture and music. \"The Death of Minnehaha\" is a frequent subject for paintings. Minnehaha Falls and her death scene inspired themes in the \"New World Symphony\" by Antonín Dvořák. Longfellow's poem was set in a cantata trilogy, \"The Song of Hiawatha\" in 1898–1900 by the African-English composer Samuel Coleridge-Taylor. Longfellow's poem also inspired Hugo Kaun's symphonic poems \"Minnehaha\" and \"Hiawatha\" composed in 1901.\n\nThe character's name has been bestowed upon things, especially in the Great Lakes region of the United States. A ship bearing the name Minnehaha wrecked off the western shore of Lake Michigan in 1893, only 38 years after Longfellow's poem was published. A Minnehaha Bay adjoins the small town of Sturgeon Falls in Ontario, Canada.\n\nMinnesota claims Minnehaha Falls, Minnehaha Park, Minnehaha Creek, Minnehaha Academy, and a boat bearing her name once operated by Twin City Rapid Transit on Lake Minnetonka, which has now been restored and is currently operated by Museum of Lake Minnetonka. Minnehaha Avenue and Hiawatha Avenue run parallel to each other from downtown Minneapolis, while another Minnehaha Avenue runs through Saint Paul.\n\nFarther west, Minnehaha, Washington stands near Vancouver. Her name is also linked to Minnehaha County in South Dakota and Minnehaha Covenant Church and Minnehaha Park in Spokane, Washington. Lake Minnehaha is located in the center of Holliday Park in Cheyenne, Wyoming. Arizona's Bradshaw Mountains contain a Minnehaha Flat.\n\nToward the Atlantic coast, a Minnehaha Island stands in the Potomac River in Montgomery County, Maryland (). A creek known as Minnehaha Branch empties into the Potomac at Glen Echo, Maryland. The town of Minnehaha Springs stands in Pocahontas County, West Virginia. Farther south, Minnehaha Falls in Lakemont, Georgia near Lake Rabun features a 100-foot cascading waterfall. Florida is home to two lakes named Minnehaha: one in the Clermont Chain of lakes in Clermont, Florida, one of the Outstanding Florida Waterbodies; the other in Maitland, Florida, linked to the Winter Park lake chain.\n\nMinnehaha's name has proven inspirational beyond the North American continent: Roca Minnehaha is an island near Easter Island and Sala y Gómez Island in Chile. Two avenues in suburbs of Auckland, New Zealand, in Titirangi and Takapuna, are named for the figure. Minnehaha Falls may be found in Katoomba, Australia.\n\nIn its Germanized form, Mine-Haha, the name was used by the German writer Frank Wedekind for the heroine of his 1903 novella \"Mine-Haha, or On the Bodily Education of Young Girls\".\n\nMinnehaha is also the main character of the \"Adventures in the Old West\" four-book series by Emilio Salgari, \"Sulle Frontiere del Far-West\" (1908), \"La Scotennatrice\" (1909), \"Le Selve Ardenti\" (1910), and \"La Vendetta di Minnehaha\" (?).\n\nMinnehaha is mentioned in British glam rock band The Sweet's song \"Wig-Wam Bam\" (1972), in which she seduces Hiawatha.\n"}
{"id": "1857375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857375", "title": "R56 (South Africa)", "text": "R56 (South Africa)\n\nThe R56 is a provincial route in South Africa that connects Middelburg with Pietermaritzburg via Molteno, Maclear and Kokstad. It is co-signed with the N2 between Kokstad and Stafford's Post for 39 kilometres.\n\nThe R56 is known as the shortest route between Cape Town in the Western Cape and Durban in KwaZulu-Natal. There are 12 main towns on R56. Middelburg Karoo, Steynsburg, Molteno, Dordrecht, Elliot, Ugie, Maclear, Matatiele, Kokstad, Ixopo, Richmond and Pietermaritzburg.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857376", "title": "Democratic Youth Front", "text": "Democratic Youth Front\n\nDemocratic Youth Front (in Spanish: \"Frente de Juventudes Democráticas\"), was a political group in Peru that surged in 1956. It launched Fernando Belaúnde Terry as its presidential candidate the same year. FJD was the base of the foundation of Popular Action.\n"}
{"id": "1857381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857381", "title": "R57 (South Africa)", "text": "R57 (South Africa)\n\nThe R57 is a provincial route in South Africa that connects Vanderbijlpark with Phuthaditjhaba via Sasolburg, Heilbron and Reitz.\n\nThe R57 begins at an intersection with the N1 Kroonvaal Toll Highway (East Southbound only) north-west of Vanderbijlpark. It begins by going south-south-east. After 5 kilometres, the R57 meets the R553 \"Golden Highway\" from Sebokeng, which marks its entrance into Vanderbijlpark. The R57 takes over the name \"Golden Highway\" from this junction southwards and it makes up the border between the Muvhango Township & Vanderbijlpark Central.\n\nFrom the R553 intersection, the R57 continues south-south-east for 4 kilometres to meet the R42 Road (Barrage Road) near Vaal Mall at a major junction. After this intersection, the R57 becomes a Highway (flying over roads and with off-ramps at certain junctions) and continues southwards for 4 kilometres, through the south-western suburbs of Vanderbijlpark, to cross the Vaal River into the Free State province.\n\nIt continues for another 3 kilometres, bypassing the Vaalpark suburb, to meet the R59 Sybrand van Niekerk Freeway at a major interchange north of Sasolburg Central.\n\nFrom the R59 interchange, the R57 continues south-east as a highway (with off-ramps) for 9 kilometres, bypassing Sasolburg Central and the Zamdela suburb, up to its junction with the R82 Road from Vereeniging, Gauteng in the suburb of Coalbrook. It continues for another 3 kilometres south-east to meet a road to Deneysville (Vaal Dam) (connecting to the R549 and R716 roads).\n\nAfter the junction with the road to Deneysville, the road continues southwards for 47 kilometres to the town of Heilbron. It bypasses Heilbron Central to the west before meeting the R34 Road. The R57 and the R34 are cosigned eastwards for a few kilometers before the R57 becomes its own road southwards just south of Heilbron Central. From the R34 junction, the R57 continues south-south-east for 44 kilometres to the town of Petrus Steyn, where it meets the R707 Route at a staggered junction east of the town centre.\n\nThe R57 continues east-south-east for 33 kilometres to the town of Reitz. 3 kilometres before the Reitz City Centre, the R57 meets the R26 Road from Frankfort. After entering Reitz as Sarel Cilliers Street, the R57 continues by a left turn at Voortrekker Street and returns to facing southwards after 1st Street.\n\nFrom Reitz, the R57 continues south-south-east for 38 kilometres to reach a junction with the R714 Route. The road continues for another 29 kilometres, through Afrikaskop, to the town of Kestell, where it meets the N5 Highway. It bypasses the town to the east and proceeds for 24 kilometres to meet the R712 Road (accessed by an off-ramp) next to the University of the Free State Qwaqwa Campus, marking its entrance into Phuthaditjhaba. It proceeds as Mota Road to reach its end in the vicinity of Phuthaditjhaba at a junction with Mampoi Road.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857385", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857385", "title": "R58 (South Africa)", "text": "R58 (South Africa)\n\nThe R58 is a provincial route in South Africa that connects Colesberg with Ngcobo via Aliwal North, Barkly East and Elliot.\n\nTowns on the R58-route include Colesberg, Norvalspont, Venterstad, Burgersdorp, Aliwal North, Lady Grey, Barkly East, Elliot and Ngcobo.\n\nThe R58 begins in Colesberg, Northern Cape at a junction with the N1 National Route, the R369 Road and the R717 Road. It goes eastwards for 77 kilometres, through Norvalspont, crossing into the Eastern Cape, bypassing the Gariep Dam, to the town of Venterstad.\n\nFrom Venterstad, the R58 goes east-south-east for 58 kilometres to the town of Burgersdorp, where it meets the R391 Road. It turns to the north-east and goes for 56 kilometres to the town of Aliwal North, where it enters as Grey street and meets the N6 National Route. The R58 and the N6 are so-signed southwards for a few metres up to the Young Street junction, where the R58 becomes its own road eastwards.\n\nFrom Aliwal North, the R58 goes eastwards for 50 kilometres, crossing the Kraai River, to the town of Lady Grey, meeting the R392 Road just before the town. They become one road passed Lady Grey for 26 kilometres southwards before the R392 becomes its own road southwards while the R58 turns to the south-east. It goes for another 39 kilometres south-east, crossing the Kraai River one last time, to the town of Barkly East. Just before Barkly East, it meets the R396 Road and they are one road eastwards into the town before splitting in the town centre.\n\nFrom Barkly East, the R58 goes south-south-east for 62 kilometres to the city of Elliot, where it meets the R56 Road in the town centre. They are one road south-west for 8 kilometres before the R58 becomes its own road southwards. After 5 kilometres, the R58 meets the northern terminus of the R410 Road and the R58 becomes the road to the south-east from this junction. It goes for 40 kilometres to reach its end at a junction with the R61 Road in the town of Ngcobo.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857390", "title": "Metropolitan Transportation Commission (San Francisco Bay Area)", "text": "Metropolitan Transportation Commission (San Francisco Bay Area)\n\nThe Metropolitan Transportation Commission (MTC) is the government agency responsible for regional transportation planning and financing in the San Francisco Bay Area. It was created in 1970 by the State of California, with support from the Bay Area Council, to coordinate transportation services in the Bay Area's nine counties: Alameda, Contra Costa, Marin, Napa, San Francisco, San Mateo, Santa Clara, Solano, and Sonoma. The MTC is fourth most populous metropolitan planning organization in the United States.\n\nMTC is designated a regional transportation planning agency (RTPA) by the State of California and a metropolitan planning organization (MPO) by the federal government. MTC is not the Bay Area's council of governments (COG); the Association of Bay Area Governments (ABAG) holds that role.\n\nMTC administers state-provided money through the Transportation Development Act (TDA) and has decision-making authority over the State Transportation Improvement Program (STIP). MTC administers federal funding through various grant programs, including the Transportation for Livable Communities (TLC) Program, Low Income Flexible Transportation (LIFT) Program, and Innovative Climate Grants Program.\n\nMTC has overseen administration of toll revenue collected on the seven State-owned bridges in the Bay Area through the Bay Area Toll Authority (BATA) since 2005. From 1997 through 2004, BATA administered only a portion of the toll revenue.\n\nSince 1999, MTC has worked to implement a regional transit fare-collection system called Clipper (formerly TransLink), where transit riders use a single card to pay fares on the region's different transit systems.\n\nMTC manages various regional operational programs, including 511, the Freeway Service Patrol (FSP), call boxes, ridesharing, FasTrak electronic toll collection, regional pavement management (including the pavement management system software StreetSaver), arterial operations, and regional signal timing programs.\n\nMTC operates a library that jointly supports MTC and ABAG. The library, which is open to the public, has a collection covering transportation and planning issues for the Bay Area.\n\nMTC is guided by a 21-member board of commissioners:\nMTC is headquartered in San Francisco and has a staff of approximately 130 people.\nIn July 2016, the ABAG board approved the consolidation of its staff under MTC, combining the work of the Bay Area's two primary regional planning agencies. The current Chair of the Metropolitan Transportation is Supervisor Scott Haggerty\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1857393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857393", "title": "R59 (South Africa)", "text": "R59 (South Africa)\n\nThe R59 is a provincial route in South Africa that connects Hertzogville with Alberton (south-east of Johannesburg) via Parys and Vereeniging. The R59 is a freeway from the Alberton Reading Interchange until just after the R57 Junction in Sasolburg.\n\nThe R59 begins at a t-junction with the R64 west of Dealesville. It heads north to the town of Hertzogville where it meets the R708 at a t-junction next to the Palmietpan and they become co-signed northwards. North of the town the R59 turns right and becomes its own road north-east to Hoopstad where on the southerly outskirts, before the Vet River, it t-junctions with the R700 and turns northwards.\n\nIt crosses the Vet River into Hoopstad where it meets and becomes cosigned with the R34. They loop to the north of the town and turn east before the R59 becomes its own road north of the Tikwana suburb to resume its journey north-east and eventually crosses the R505 before Bothaville. The route continues past a place named Misgunst to enter Bothaville, where it meets the R30 and co-signs with it northwards, crossing the Vals River into Bothaville. In Bothaville Central, the R727 t-junctions the R30/R59 co-signage. At a four-way intersection north of Bothaville, as the R504 is the road westwards and the R30 continues northwards, the R59 becomes the road to the east.\n\nThe R59 continues in a north-easterly direction, bypassing Viljoenskroon to the north, where it meets the R76 at a 4-way-junction. Continuing north-east from Viljoenskroon, the route meets the southern terminus of the R501 before going to Vredefort.\n\nAfter bypassing Vredefort to the west, it meets the northern terminus of the R721 north of the town. It continues to Parys from the south-west, where it becomes the main road through the town and meets the southern terminus of the R53 and R500 routes from the North West Province (which the nearby, parallel Vaal River forms the border with). It is not one direct road through Parys (makes a right and left turn).\n\nFrom Parys, the route continues north-east to meet the southern terminus of the R42 Road Extension (Boundary Road) just before meeting the N1 Kroonvaal Toll Route & crossing over it just north of its Vaal Toll Plaza. It crosses the N1 as a dual carriageway.\n\nIt proceeds east-north-east, still following the Vaal River, to enter Sasolburg's northern suburbs, where it forms a large interchange with the R57 Golden Highway. It crosses over the R57 and continues north-east to meet Ascot-on-Vaal Road (R716) on the outskirts of Sasolburg before crossing the Vaal River into Gauteng province east of Vanderbijlpark as the Sybrand van Niekerk Freeway. It is a freeway for its remainder.\n\nAfter crossing the Vaal, it interchanges with and crosses the R42 east of Sharpeville, Vanderbijlpark and south-west of Vereeniging Central (west southbound and east northbound off-ramps only), before crossing the R28 from Sebokeng. It continues north and meets the R54 to the Three Rivers suburb (R59 North off-ramp only) and R82 to Vereeniging Central (R59 South off-ramp only) at an interchange close to Duncanville. Two further interchanges with the M61 follow as it continues north-east passing to the west of Meyerton, intersecting with the R551 during this time.\n\nIt continues north-east, passed Henley on Klip and intersecting with the R557. It continues north, passing to the west of Garthdale and crosses the R550 Road and then over the Klip River. Its next major interchange is with Klip River Drive outside Brakendown and Thokoza. It continues into Brakenhurst, a suburb of Alberton, where it crosses the R554 Road (Swartkoppies Road; which provides access to the Alberton CBD) and Michelle Avenue in Meyersdal. After a short distance, it meets the N12 Highway (Johannesburg Southern Bypass) at the Reading Interchange (Johannesburg Ring Road) and then proceeds to end at a t-junction with the M38 Road in Tulisa Park, Johannesburg South.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857395", "title": "Madeley, Shropshire", "text": "Madeley, Shropshire\n\nMadeley is a town and civil parish in Shropshire, England, now part of the new town of Telford. The parish had a population of 17,935 at the 2001 census.\n\nMadeley is recorded in the Domesday Book, having been founded before the 8th century. Historically, Madeley's industrial activity has largely been in mining, and later, manufacturing, which is still a large employer in the town, along with service industries. Parts of the parish fall within the UNESCO World Heritage Site of Ironbridge Gorge, the site of The Iron Bridge, and a key area in the development of Industry.\n\nThe settlement of Madeley is recorded as far back as the Domesday Book. The town was founded prior to the 8th century, and subsequently became a market town in the 13th century.\n\nSigward, a local ruler in the time of King Æthelbald of Mercia, is said to have held 3 hides of land at Madeley. Between 727 and 736 he sold his holdings to Mildburh, daughter of Merewalh, sub-king of the Magonsæte. She was the founder and first head of Wenlock Abbey. The monastery was refounded as a Cluniac priory after the Norman conquest but the manor of Madeley belonged to the church of Wenlock, throughout the Middle Ages, until the Dissolution of the monasteries. It passed to the Crown in 1540 and in 1544 was sold to Robert Broke, a prominent lawyer and politician from Claverley.\n\nMining of coal began before 1322, and the extraction of ironstone had begun by 1540.\n\nThe town played a role in the English Civil War, as it was home to a garrison of Royalist soldiers in 1645, although this post was abandoned after the fall of Shrewsbury. Two months later, Parliamentary forces occupied the parish church. Madeley is also home to a barn in which King Charles II hid after the Battle of Worcester in 1651.\n\nIn the 17th century, Madeley was a small market town, but local tradesmen began to specialise, working in the river trade and in mining. In the 18th century, The Iron Bridge was built between Madeley Wood and Coalbrookdale and the settlement of Ironbridge grew by it, which took some of the commercial trade away from the old town of Madeley, including its market.\nIn the 1970s, significant construction of new housing and recreation areas was undertaken by the Dawley Development Corporation, later known as the Telford Development Corporation, as part of the development of Telford New Town.\n\nSeveral of Madeley's historical sites of interest are waypoints on the South Telford Heritage Trail including: Madeley Court, Madeley High Street, Jubilee House, St Michael's Church, Madeley Windmill and the Madeley Salop Railway Station. The gatehouse to Madeley Court is a grade I listed building.\n\nMadeley is located within the civil parish and ward of the same name. The ward is within the Telford constituency, which is currently represented by Conservative MP Lucy Allan. In terms of local government, the town has representation in the local Town Council, Madeley Town Council, with six councillors representing the town. However, the term \"Madeley\" sometimes refers in a broader sense to a larger geographical area incorporating the town of Madeley and the neighbouring areas of Sutton Hill, Sutton Heights and Woodside, and all four fall within the boundaries of Madeley Town Council. The current composition of Madeley Town Council is 15 Labour, 1 Conservative and 1 Independent. The town is administered on the borough level by Telford and Wrekin unitary authority, and is represented as part of the Madeley and Sutton Hill ward by 2 Labour and 1 Conservative councillor. The parish of Madeley formerly incorporated Ironbridge, which has since become part of the new parish of The Gorge.\n\nMadeley is situated in the southern part of the new town of Telford, to the north of Ironbridge and the River Severn. Coalport, a part of the parish of Madeley can be found to the west of the town, and the modern Telford Town Centre is north of the settlement. The local area has reserves of coal and ironstone.\n\nPart of the UNESCO World Heritage Site of the Ironbridge Gorge falls within the Parish of Madeley. The majority of the site is within the parish of The Gorge, named for the Ironbridge Gorge, which is bridged by The Iron Bridge.\n\nAt the 2001 census, the population of the parish of Madeley was 17,935. Of this number, 8,190 were economically active, and of them, 7,477 were in employment. The ethnicity of the population was as follows: 96% of the population was found to be White, and 1.9% Asian, or Asian British. 1.3% of the population was mixed race, 0.6% Black or Black British and a further 0.2% Chinese.\n\nIn terms of religion: 77% of the population are Christian, and 14.4% are of no religion. 0.7% of the population are Muslim, 0.5% are Sikh, 0.3% are Hindu, and 0.1% are Buddhist.\n\nHistorically, Madeley was a mining town serving the now defunct Kemberton Colliery. It was also home to the Madeley Wood Company. By 2001, manufacturing was still a large employer in the town, with 33.1% of parish residents employed in that area. 20.7% were employed in wholesale, retail and hotels, and 11.8% in finance and business services. 5.3% of residents were unemployed.\n\nThe B4373 runs through the town, and the A4169 runs along its northern edge. The nearest motorway is the M54, which connects Telford to the West Midlands conurbation and the rest of the motorway network. Town bus services are provided by Arriva Midlands, and a community bus service is provided.\n\nNear Madeley is Madeley Junction, a railway junction and its accompanying signal box. The line from this junction runs to Lightmoor Junction, and was used to carry coal to Ironbridge Power Station. The nearest National Rail station to the town is Telford Central. It was also served the Coalport Branch Line from 1860 until 1952. The station remains intact and the former trackbed forms part of the Silkin Way.\n\nThere are a number of nurseries and primary schools in Madeley, and two secondary schools: Abraham Darby Academy and Madeley Academy. Haughton School, a special school for students aged five to eleven is located in the town.\n\nThere are three churches in the centre of Madeley: St Michael's, a Church of England parish church, which was designed in its present form by Thomas Telford; Madeley Baptist Church; and St Mary's Roman Catholic church, part of the Diocese of Shrewsbury. The Fletcher Methodist Centre can be found in the town, and on the Tweedale Industrial Estate near Madeley is the Springfield Christian Fellowship.\n\nResidents of the town of Madeley have included Sir Basil Brooke of Madeley Court, who was instrumental in the Industrial Revolution. He was born in the local manor (which he later inherited) in 1576. His grandfather, Robert Brooke, was a former Speaker of the House of Commons.\n\nMary Bosanquet Fletcher, one of the first female Methodist preachers, and John William Fletcher, her husband and fellow Methodist preacher, had a joint ministry in the parish of Madeley in the 18th century. John's iron tombstone is in the parish churchyard.\n\nMajor Charles Allix Lavington Yate VC, is another former resident of the town, who earned the Victoria Cross in the First World War. He was kinsman of Colonel Sir Charles Yate, 1st Baronet, (1849–1940) British soldier and administrator in India, who retired to Madeley Hall and is buried in the parish churchyard.\n\nMary Whitehouse taught art at Madeley Modern School (now the Abraham Dardy Academy) in Madeley, Shropshire from 1960, taking responsibility for sex education. Shocked at the moral beliefs of her pupils, she became concerned about what she and many others perceived as declining moral standards in the British media, especially in the BBC.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1857396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857396", "title": "R60 (South Africa)", "text": "R60 (South Africa)\n\nThe R60 is a provincial route in South Africa that runs along the Breede River Valley, connecting Worcester with Swellendam via Robertson. It also provides a high-speed highway link between the N1 and the N2 national roads.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857397", "title": "Christian Democrat Party (Peru)", "text": "Christian Democrat Party (Peru)\n\nChristian Democrat Party (in Spanish: \"Partido Demócrata Cristiano\"), a political party in Peru that surged in 1956. Founded by Ernesto Alayza Grundy, Luis Bedoya Reyes, Mario Polar Ugarteche, Héctor Cornejo Chávez, Roberto Ramírez del Villar and others.\n\nThe PDC had its roots in the government of José Bustamante y Rivero who was overthrown in 1948 by Manuel A. Odría although it did not emerge as an organised until 1956 when it was one of a number of populist parties formed following Odria's announcement of a new democracy (the other major ones being Popular Action and the Progressive Social Movement). \n\nThe new party gained seats in both houses in the 1956 elections and initially they only concentrated their efforts on the Congress rather than running for the Presidency. A change in policy followed in 1962 when Cornejo was a candidate for the Presidency but he only managed 2.88% of the vote and the party was eliminated from Congress.\n\nAs a result of this failure and the coup that overthrew Manuel Prado Ugarteche the PDC threw in their lot with the Popular Action and as such returned to Congress in 1963 as junior partners in the coalition supporting new President Fernando Belaúnde Terry. The party returned to government as a partner in APRA-led government of Alan García, remaining in office until 1990.\n\nThe PDC advocated a strong nationalism, a community-minded approach to politics and state interventionism, with a grouping on the left even advocating nationalisation of the oil industry. In the end the right of the party split off in 1966 to set up the Christian People's Party although in the short term at least the majority of the membership remained with the PDC.\n\nThe PDC gained a following in Lima to the extent that the party was able to defeat strong candidates from Popular Action and the Odriíst National Union in order to have Luis Bedoya Reyes elected Mayor of Lima. In general however the party's prospects were hampered by an anti-clericalism prevalent in Peru and, whilst it gained some support amongst middle class women, it never seriously challenged Popular Action for the centre right vote.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857398", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857398", "title": "Fare network", "text": "Fare network\n\nThe Fare network (formerly Football Against Racism in Europe) is a network set up to counter discrimination in European football. The network was set up in Vienna, Austria, in February 1999 after a meeting of football supporters' groups, football players' unions and football associations. The network has received backing from the European governing body UEFA, FIFA and the European Commission for its aims.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857400", "title": "R61 (South Africa)", "text": "R61 (South Africa)\n\nThe R61 is a provincial route in South Africa that connects Beaufort West with Port Shepstone via Graaff-Reinet, Queenstown, Mthatha and Port Edward.\n\nThe R61 is co-signed with the N9 for 103 kilometres from Aberdeen through Graaff-Reinet to Bethesdaweg, and with the N6 for 18 kilometres near Queenstown.\n\nThe R61 begins in Port Shepstone, KwaZulu-Natal at an intersection with the N2 Highway from Durban. As the N2 leaves the freeway at an off-ramp and becomes the road westwards towards Harding, the R61 becomes the freeway south-south-west through the KwaZulu-Natal South Coast. As the 1st section is maintained by SANRAL, the R61 is a toll road from the N2 Interchange up to the Alford Avenue off-ramp in Ramsgate, just after Margate (16km). At Ramsgate, it stops being both a toll road and a highway.\n\nFrom Ramsgate, the R61 resumes south-south-west for 25 kilometres to Port Edward. Just after Port Edward, the R61 leaves the KwaZulu-Natal Province and crosses the Mtamvuna River via the C. H. Mitchell Bridge into the Eastern Cape Province.\n\nFrom the provincial boundary (Mtamvuna River), the R61 heads north-west for 50km to the town of Bizana, which it bypasses to the south. From Bizana, the R61 continues westwards for 25 kilometres to reach a junction with the R394 Road, where the R61 turns southwards and heads 110 kilometres to cross the Mzimvubu River and bypass the town of Port St. Johns to the north. Just after crossing the river, it continues westwards for 87 kilometres, bypassing Libode, to the city of Mthatha, where it crosses the Mthatha River and meets the N2 National Route again in the city centre.\n\nFrom Mthatha, the R61 heads westwards for 83 kilometres, bypassing Mthatha Airport, to the town of Ngcobo, where it meets the eastern terminus of the R58 Road and the R61 turns to the south-south-west. At the R409 intersection near Tsomo, the R61 turns to the west and heads for 80 kilometres to reach a t-junction with the N6 National Route. They become one road north-west into the town of Queenstown (renamed Komani in February 2016). At the roundabout with Barrable Street in Komani, the R61 becomes its own road west-south-west and after almost 2 kilometres, it meets the northern terminus of the R67 Road at a roundabout. The R61 heads westwards for 136 kilometres, through Tarkastad, to the town of Cradock, where it meets the N10 National Route. The R61 & N10 are one road northwards through the city centre of Cradock, continuing by a left turn (Commissioner Street), a right turn (JA Calata Street) and another left turn, to cross the Great Fish River.\n\nThe R61 and the N10 remain as one road for another 4.5km west-north-west, before the R61 becomes its own road westwards. The R61 continues for 85 kilometres as the Wapadsberg Pass to reach a junction with the N9 National Route south of Bethesdaweg. They are one road southwards into the town of Graaff-Reinet, where they meet and are co-signed for a few kilometres with the R63 Route, crossing the Sundays River. From Graaff-Reinet, the R61 & N9 remain as one road west-south-west for 55km up to the town of Aberdeen. At the 4-way-junction with Hoop Street (R338), the R61 stops co-signing with the N9 and becomes the road westwards from this junction.\n\nFrom Aberdeen, the R61 heads westwards for 148 kilometres, crossing into the Western Cape Province, to enter the town of Beaufort West and reach its western terminus at a junction with the N1 and N12 National Route co-signage.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1857402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857402", "title": "National Liberation Front (Peru)", "text": "National Liberation Front (Peru)\n\nNational Liberation Front (in Spanish: \"Frente de Liberación Nacional\") was a political party in Peru founded in 1960 by General César Pando Egúsquiza, Salomón Bolo Hidalgo, and Genaro Checa. It participated in the 1962 elections.\n"}
{"id": "1857406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857406", "title": "Scott Simon", "text": "Scott Simon\n\nScott Simon (born March 16, 1952) is an American journalist and the host of \"Weekend Edition Saturday\" on NPR.\n\nSimon was born in Chicago, Illinois, the son of comedian Ernie Simon and actress Patricia Lyons. He also had a sister who died at a young age. He grew up in major cities across the United States and Canada, including Chicago; New York City; San Francisco; Los Angeles; Montreal; Cleveland; and Washington, D.C.\n\nSimon's father was Jewish and his mother was Irish Catholic. His father died when Scott was 16, and his mother later married former minor league baseball player Ralph G. Newman, an American Civil War scholar and author who ran the Abraham Lincoln Bookshop in Chicago.\n\nSimon graduated from Nicholas Senn High School in 1970.\n\nSimon has been with NPR for over four decades, beginning in 1977 as Chicago bureau chief, and his career encompasses other types of media as well. He has hosted the Saturday edition of \"Weekend Edition\" since its inception in 1985, with the exception of a brief period in 1992 and 1993 when Alex Chadwick hosted the show.\n\nHis books include \"My Cubs: A Love Story\" (2017); \"Home and Away: Memoir of a Fan\" (2000); \"Jackie Robinson and the Integration of Baseball\" (2002); \"Baby, We Were Meant for Each Other: In Praise of Adoption\" (2010), about his experiences adopting two daughters; and the novels \"Pretty Birds\" (2005) and \"Windy City: A Novel of Politics\" (2008).\n\nHe has also hosted many television series and specials, including PBS's \"Need to Know\" in 2011–13. He guest-hosted \"BBC World News America\", filling in for Matt Frei, and anchored NBC's \"Weekend Today\" in 1992–93.\n\nAfter September 11, 2001, Simon spoke and wrote in support of the \"war on terror\", publishing an op-ed in the October 11, 2001, \"Wall Street Journal\" titled \"Even Pacifists Must Support This War.\" He questioned nonviolence at greater length in the Quaker publication \"Friends Journal\" in December 2001, provoking many angry letters, to which he replied in the May 2003 issue.\n\nOn November 15, 2014, at the beginning of an interview for \"Weekend Edition Saturday\", Bill Cosby and his wife Camille declined to respond to the accusations of sexual assault against Cosby when Simon gave them the opportunity. As narrated by Simon in the interview, Cosby only shook his head no. The rest of the interview focused on the couple's loan of their 62-piece African art collection for an exhibition in Washington, D.C.\n\nOn December 15, 2018, Simon opened on a story on the death of Jakelin Caal by saying, \"I do not doubt that U.S. Customs and Border Protection agents did all they could to try to save the life of Jakelin Caal Maquin, a 7-year-old girl from Guatemala, who died in the custody of the United States.\" Journalist Jon Schwarz from \"The Intercept\" criticized Simon on Twitter.\n\nSimon has won every major award in broadcasting, including the Peabody and the Emmy, and has received numerous honorary degrees.\n\nIn May 2010, he was awarded an Honorary Doctor of Humane Letters degree by Willamette University, where he was that year's commencement speaker.\n\nHe was inducted as a Laureate of The Lincoln Academy of Illinois and awarded the Order of Lincoln (the State's highest honor) by the Governor of Illinois in 2016 in the area of Business, Industry & Communications.\n\nSimon met French documentary filmmaker Caroline Richard during an NPR interview in 2000. They married on September 10, 2000, in a mixed-faith (Methodist, Quaker, and Jewish) service in Ridgefield, Connecticut, at the home of fashion designer Alexander Julian. They have two daughters, both adopted as babies from China: Elise, in 2004, and Lina, in 2007. They consider themselves a Jewish family (Simon's father was Jewish and his mother was Irish Catholic).\n\nIn 2006 Simon and his wife were contacted by police as part of the Alexander Litvinenko poisoning investigation. The family was staying at a hotel near the restaurant at the center of the poisoning incident, and had twice bought food there for their daughter Elise. The health of the family was not affected.\n\nIn July 2013, in a groundbreaking use of social media, Simon began tweeting his emotions and conversations with his mother during her last days of life, which she spent in a hospital intensive-care unit. \"I just realized: she once had to let me go into the big wide world. Now I have to let her go the same way\", read one tweet. In March 2015, he published a memoir about her titled \"Unforgettable: A Son, a Mother, and the Lessons of a Lifetime\".\n\nHe is the nephew of Jack Brickhouse.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857407", "title": "List of Tibetan monasteries", "text": "List of Tibetan monasteries\n\nThis list of Tibetan monasteries is a listing of historical and contemporary monasteries of Tibetan Buddhism within the ethno-cultural Tibet itself and elsewhere. Tibetan monasteries are works of architectural, pictorial, decorative and landscape art.\n"}
{"id": "1857408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857408", "title": "Odriist National Union", "text": "Odriist National Union\n\nThe Odriist National Union ( or UNO), was a political party in Peru founded in 1961 by general Manuel A. Odría. The party had Julio de la Piedra amongst its leaders.\n\nThe party had its origins in Odría's military regime, which ended in 1956 when he left the country. Odría's popularity grew after he left office, largely due to the high level of public works that his administration had brought in. His spending policies, however, had left a high level of public debt and it fell to the government of Manuel Prado Ugarteche to cope with this. The result was the creation of a myth that Odría's rule had been one of prosperity in contrast to Prado's (although much of the problems were due to a fall in demand for raw materials following the end of the Korean War). As a consequence Odría was able to return and set up UNO in 1961, and the party quickly became the country's third biggest behind Alianza Popular Revolucionaria Americana and Popular Action.\n\nAlthough dominated by its leader the party did have a wider structure which included a national executive, a consultative committee and a series of locally based shop and area committees. Julio de la Piedra was the leading figure behind Odría, serving as chairman of the party as well as their leader in the Chamber of Deputies.\n\nIn elections support for the UNO came mainly from three sources. These were:\n\nThe party represented the far right of politics in Peru. However whilst it had some highly conservative principles, notably to do with the special status of the Roman Catholic Church and investment capitalism, it followed the line of the main parties with regards to development and social justice. The party has been critical of democracy and espoused authoritarianism, feeling that the competitive party system led to inefficiency and stopped important decisions from being made. Above all however, the driving force behind the UNO was the cult of personality built up around Odría and the achievements of his government.\n\nThe 1968 coup which saw Juan Velasco Alvarado brought to power also saw UNO disappear from the political scene. De la Piedra meanwhile broke away, and formed his Nationalist Social Democrat Party the same year.\n\nThe UNO name was revived first in the 1989 Lima mayoral election when they put up Italian-born panettone entrepreneur Angelo Rovegno for mayor of Lima; he and others lost to Ricardo Belmont Cassinelli. In the subsequent 1990 Peruvian Presidential election, lawyer Dora Narrea de Castillo ran under the party name, being the first woman ever to run for President of Peru. However, by this time Odría was long dead and his government a distant memory and so only 0.3% of the vote was secured in an election which brought Alberto Fujimori to power. Enrique Odría Sotomayor, his nephew, has registered \"Alternancia Perú UNO\" as a political party.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857411", "title": "R63 (South Africa)", "text": "R63 (South Africa)\n\nThe R63 is a tarred provincial route in South Africa that connects Calvinia with Komga via Carnarvon, Victoria West, Graaff-Reinet, Somerset East and King William's Town. It is cosigned with the N10 between Eastpoort and Cookhouse for 24 kilometres.\n\nThe R63 begins 20 kilometres east of Calvinia, Northern Cape at an intersection with the R27 Road. It heads eastwards for 92 kilometres to the town of Williston, where it meets the R353 Road. From Williston, the R63 heads eastwards for 128 kilometres to the town of Carnarvon, where it meets the southern terminus of the R386 Road. At this junction, the R63 turns southwards and heads 63 kilometres to the town of Loxton, where it meets the northern terminus of the R381. At this junction, the R63 turns eastwards and heads 80 kilometres to the city of Victoria West, where it meets the N12 National Route.\n\nFrom Victoria West, the R63 heads south-east. 48 kilometres from Victoria West, just after crossing into the Western Cape, the R63 meets the N1 National Route. From The N1 junction, the R63 continues south-east to the town of Murraysburg. From Murraysburg, the R63 continues south-east to cross into the Eastern Cape and enter the city of Graaff-Reinet.\n\nIn Graaff-Reinet Central, the R63 meets the N9 National Route and the R61 Road and all 3 routes share one road southwards before the R63 becomes its own road south-south-east in the southern suburbs of Graaff-Reinet. As the R63 enters Graaff-Reinet, it bypasses the Nqweba Dam and it crosses the Sundays River 3 times (before, during and after sharing a road with the N9/R61). From Graaff-Reinet, the R63 heads southwards for 23 kilometres to meet the northern terminus of the R75 Road. At this junction, the R63 turns eastwards and heads east-south-east for 98 kilometres, through Pearston, to the city of Somerset East, where it crosses the Little Fish River twice. The R63 heads eastwards for another 21 kilometres to the town of Cookhouse, where it meets the N10 National Route and crosses the Great Fish River.\n\nThe R63 & N10 are one road north-east for 24 kilometres before the R63 becomes its own road eastwards. The R63 heads eastwards for 43 kilometres, through Bedford, to the town of Adelaide, where it crosses the Koonap River and meets the R344 Road. They are one road south-east for almost 4 kilometres before the R344 becomes its own road southwards. From Adelaide, the R63 heads east-south-east for 31 kilometres to enter Fort Beaufort and meet the R67 Road west of the town centre. They are one road for 650 metres up to a t-junction, where the R67 turns north and the R63 turns south to cross the Kat River. Shortly after, the R63 turns eastwards. From Fort Beaufort town centre, the R63 heads eastwards for 22 kilometres to the town of Alice, where it meets the R345 Road in the town centre. They are one road eastwards for almost 5 kilometres before the R345 becomes its own road northwards.\n\nFrom the R345 split in Alice, the R63 heads eastwards for 54 kilometres to King William's Town in the Buffalo City Metropolitan Municipality, where it meets the N2 National Route and crosses the Buffalo River. They are one road eastwards as they enter the city centre of King William's Town. They become Buffalo Road southwards and at the Grey Street junction, they meet the R346 Road. All 3 routes become Grey Street eastwards up to the Alexandra Road junction, where the R346 becomes Alexandra Road northwards, the N2 becomes Alexandra Road southwards and the R63 remains on the easterly road, which changes its name to Maitland Road and heads north-east for another 3 kilometres to Bhisho, the capital of the Eastern Cape.\n\nThe R63 heads north-east for another 25 kilometres to pass the town of Kei Road and meet the N6 National Route. It proceeds eastwards, bypassing Komga, to end at another junction with the N2 National Route.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857413", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857413", "title": "R64 (South Africa)", "text": "R64 (South Africa)\n\nThe R64 is a provincial route in South Africa that connects Kimberley with Bloemfontein via Boshof and Dealesville. It is slightly longer than the newer N8 route via Petrusburg, by about 10 kilometres.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857415", "title": "Clawed salamander", "text": "Clawed salamander\n\nThe genus Onychodactylus, commonly known as clawed salamanders, is composed of three species, all endemic to eastern Asia. \"O. fischeri\" is found on the Korean peninsula, as well as in the Russian Far East and adjacent regions of China. \"O. japonicus\" is found in Japan, on the islands of Shikoku and Honshū. All species are lungless with moderately developed parotoid glands. They inhabit moist, forested mountains near small rivers, streams, and lakes. Adults of each species can reach a length of 19 cm.\n\nSpecies recognized as of October 2019:\n"}
{"id": "1857417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857417", "title": "R65 (South Africa)", "text": "R65 (South Africa)\n\nThe R65 is a provincial route in South Africa that connects Ermelo with the Swaziland border at Sandlane, via Amsterdam.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857418", "title": "Selwyn (singer)", "text": "Selwyn (singer)\n\nSelwyn (born Selwyn Pretorius, 1982, in Durban, South Africa) is an R&B singer from Perth, Western Australia. He was a contestant on the Australian reality series \"Popstars 2\", but did not make it through to the final group lineup. He was re-discovered while working at a shopping centre as a trolley boy. Producer Audius Mtawarira overheard him singing and offered to produce him.\n\nIn August 2004, Selwyn released \"Boomin'\". It was written by Paul Rein for Selwyn's second studio album, \"One Way\". Australian singer Israel contributed to the production of the song, which according to Kathy McCabe of \"The Daily Telegraph\" is \"beefed-up\". Selwyn described it as a \"different track\" with a \"different feel\". It was promoted through the clothing store Jay Jays, where customers would receive a physical copy of the single after spending $40 at the store. For the week of 19 August 2004, \"Boomin'\" was the third-most added track to the playlists of Australian radio stations. It entered the Australian Singles Chart at No.28 and spent six weeks within the chart.\n"}
{"id": "1857420", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857420", "title": "R66 (South Africa)", "text": "R66 (South Africa)\n\nThe R66 is a provincial route in South Africa that connects Gingindlovu with Pongola via Eshowe, Melmoth and Ulundi.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857421", "title": "Nationalist Social Democrat Party", "text": "Nationalist Social Democrat Party\n\nNationalist Social Democrat Party (in Spanish: \"Partido Social Demócrata Nacionalista\") was a political party in Peru founded in 1968 by a dissident fraction of general Manuel A. Odría's \"Unión Nacional Odriísta\". PSDN was led by Julio de la Piedra.\n"}
{"id": "1857424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857424", "title": "R67 (South Africa)", "text": "R67 (South Africa)\n\nThe R67 is a provincial route in South Africa that connects Port Alfred with Queenstown via Grahamstown.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857428", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857428", "title": "R68 (South Africa)", "text": "R68 (South Africa)\n\nThe R68 is a provincial route in South Africa that connects Melmoth with Dundee.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857430", "title": "R69 (South Africa)", "text": "R69 (South Africa)\n\nThe R69 is a provincial route in South Africa that connects Vryheid with Mkuze via Louwsburg.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857431", "title": "Anton Melik Geographical Institute", "text": "Anton Melik Geographical Institute\n\nThe Anton Melik Geographical Institute () was founded in 1946 by the Slovenian Academy of Sciences and Arts. In 1976 it was named after the Slovene geographer and academy member Anton Melik (1890–1966), who was the first head of the institute. Since 1981, the institute has been a member of the Scientific Research Center of the Slovenian Academy of Sciences and Arts. Until 1992 the institute was mainly engaged with researching glaciers, glacial and fluvial transformations of land surfaces, flooded areas, natural disasters, mountain farms, and social geography. Since 1993 the institute's main task has been to conduct geographical studies of Slovenia and its landscapes and to prepare basic geographical texts on Slovenia as a country and as part of the world.\n\nResearch is mostly directed toward physical, social, and regional geography and thematic cartography.\n\nIt has nine organizational units:\n\n\nThe institute houses a map collection and three specialized geographical collections: Landscapes of Slovenia, Settlements of Slovenia, and Glaciers of Slovenia. It is headquarters of the Commission for the Standardization of Geographical Names of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia (\"Komisija za standardizacijo zemljepisnih imen Vlade Republike Slovenije\").\n\nThe institute publishes three scholarly publications. \"Geografija Slovenije\" (Geography of Slovenia) is a series of books that appears in Slovene once or twice a year. \"Acta geographica Slovenica/Geografski zbornik\" is a journal published twice a year in English and Slovene. The articles can be downloaded in Slovene or English from the journal homepage. \"Geografski informacijski sistemi v Sloveniji\" (Geographical Information Systems in Slovenia) is a bulletin published every second (even) year in Slovene.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1857433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857433", "title": "Vassilis Lakis", "text": "Vassilis Lakis\n\nVasilis Lakis (; born 10 September 1976) is a Greek retired footballer. He was nicknamed \"Turbo\" for his speed when attacking along the right wing and ability to provide accurate crosses for the strikers in the area.\n\nLakis started his career in for FAS Naoussa and he began his career as a defender but his earliest coaches, recognizing his natural ability, moved him to the attacking wing, where he has since shone. In FAS Naoussa Lakis played with players like the future Greek star Vassilios Tsiartas.\n\nIn the summer 1995, Lakis signed for the professional club Panileiakos and in the next season he helped the team to achieve the 7th place in the Greek Super League and Lakis scored 7 goals for the Panileiakos team.\n\nIn the simmer 1998 Lakis signed for AEK Athens FC and here he played with big stars like, Demis Nikolaidis, that they won 2 Greek Cup in the season 1999/2000 against Ionikos and in 2001/2002 against the rival Olympiakos also with Vasilios Tsiartas joyned from Seville and Theodoros Zagorakis from Leicester City. In the season 2001/2002 Lakis with AEK Athens FC achieved the Fourth round of the 2001–02 UEFA Cup against the Internazionale Milano F.C. of Héctor Raul Cúper. In the season 2002/2003 Lakis found also Grigorios Georgatos from Internazionale Milano F.C. and with AEK Athens FC gained the 2002–03 UEFA Champions League in the same group with big clubs like A.S. Roma and the Spanish giants Real Madrid C.F.. The club nearly beat Real Madrid C.F. after leading 3–1 and then 3–3 at home in the old stadium Nikos Goumas Stadium, but AEK Athens FC took the revenge in Madrid at the Santiago Bernabéu Stadium drawing 2–2.\n\nAfter Greece won Euro 2004, Lakis signed as a free agent for Crystal Palace in the Premiership. He made 18 league appearances for Palace. He notably missed the goal from 6 yards in the game against Arsenal at Selhurst Park while the score was 1-1. It is likely that Palace would have won the match had he scored. He was also sent off a in a 0-0 draw with Manchester United. Unfortunately the club was relegated the same year and Lakis decided to return to Greece and his previous club AEK Athens FC.\n\nHe returned to long-time club AEK Athens FC and here he found players like, Traianos Dellas that came from the Italian gian A.S. Roma and as president Demis Nikolaidis. AEK Athens FC gained again the 2006–07 UEFA Champions League in the same group of A.C. Milan that they beat at home 1–0 with the goal of Júlio César. In the summer 2007 AEK Athens FC acquired the Brazilian Rivaldo from the rival Olympiacos and the club rich the top of Greek Championship with the Piraeus rival. He is a pacy right winger who can also play up front, known for his fast-paced end-to-end style of play. He is renowned in his home country for his habit of missing easy chances but his speed, cutting passes, and incisive runs into the box more than makeup for this failing.\n\nOn 2 July 2007, Lakis was released by AEK, on 3 July he signed a three-year contract with PAOK, which here he founds Theodoros Zagorakis as the president of the club and Zisis Vryzas as a player, that they won Euro 2004. Lakis helped his new team to gain the second place in the Greek Championship behind Olympiacos and qualifying PAOK for the UEFA Intertoto Cup.\n\nOn 1 July 2009 he signed a two-years contract with the football club AO Kavala. Here lakis found the goalkeeper Fanis Katergiannakis that he helped to promote the team in the Greek Championship after 10 years. His new club AO Kavala was the revelation of the Greek Championship fighting for the first six positions and Lakis become one more time one of the most important players with experience.\n\nLakis with Kavala FC reached the semifinal of the Greek Cup against Panionios. In the semifinal Kavala FC will face Aris Thessaloniki F.C..\n\nLakis made 35 appearances for the Greece national football team and scored his first goal in a friendly match, in April 2000 in Dublin against the Republic of Ireland, in Lansdown Road. The coach Otto Rehhagel called him for the qualification for Euro 2004 and he was included in the Greek squad that won Euro 2004 and made two appearances as a substitute against Portugal in the group-stage and France in the quarterfinal.\n\nAEK\n\nGreece\n\n"}
{"id": "1857435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857435", "title": "Revolutionary Marxist Workers Party", "text": "Revolutionary Marxist Workers Party\n\nRevolutionary Marxist Workers Party (), was a Trotskyist political party in Peru that was founded in 1970 by a dissident fraction of \"Vanguardia Revolucionaria\". It was led by Ricardo Napurí and Jorge Villarán. Napurí was the general secretary of POMR.\n\nInternationally, POMR was an affiliate of CORQI.\n\nPOMR contested the 1980 general election on the lists of the Workers Revolutionary Party (PRT). Napurí was elected senator.\n\nOn March 7, 1982, the majority faction of POMR merged with the Socialist Workers Party.\n"}
{"id": "1857436", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857436", "title": "R70 (South Africa)", "text": "R70 (South Africa)\n\nThe R70 is a provincial route in the Free State Province, South Africa that connects Odendaalsrus with Ficksburg via Ventersburg and Senekal.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857439", "title": "Graph manifold", "text": "Graph manifold\n\nIn topology, a graph manifold (in German: Graphenmannigfaltigkeit) is a 3-manifold which is obtained by gluing some circle bundles. They were invented and classified by the German topologist Friedhelm Waldhausen in 1967. This definition allows a very convenient combinatorial description as a graph whose vertices are the fundamental parts and (decorated) edges stand for the description of the gluing, hence the name.\n\nTwo very important classes of examples are given by the Seifert bundles and the Solv manifolds. This leads to a more modern definition: a graph manifold is either a Solv manifold, a manifold having only Seifert pieces in its JSJ decomposition, or connect sums of the previous two categories. From this perspective, Waldhausen's article can be seen as the first breakthrough towards the discovery of JSJ decomposition. \n\nOne of the numerous consequences of the Thurston-Perelman geometrization theorem is that graph manifolds are precisely the 3-manifolds whose Gromov norm vanishes.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857440", "title": "George Willig", "text": "George Willig\n\nGeorge Willig (born June 11, 1949) (a.k.a. \"The Human Fly\" or \"The Spiderman\") is a mountain-climber from Queens, New York, United States, who climbed the South Tower (2 WTC) of the World Trade Center on May 26, 1977, about 2½ years after tightrope walker Philippe Petit walked between the tops of the two towers.\n\nBefore the stunt, Willig was a toymaker. At the time of the climb, 2 WTC was the third tallest building in the world, behind 1 WTC and the Sears Tower. It took Willig 3.5 hours to scale the tower. While the City of New York initially announced it would fine him $250,000 for \"the inconvenience the stunt caused,\" New York City Mayor Abraham Beame fined him just $1.10, one cent for each of the skyscraper's 110 stories.\n\nWillig visited the World Trade Center a year before the stunt and took measurements for the equipment he would need. He made special clamps that fit into the window washing tracks of the South Tower. The clamps he designed would lock into place when they were pulled down by his body weight. They would release when he decided to raise them. Once he built the equipment, he went to the World Trade Center 4 to 5 times at night to test the equipment. He began his climb at 6:30 a.m. that Thursday morning. As he was climbing, two police officers, one a suicide expert, were lowered in a window washing basket to try to get Willig to give up. Willig swung away from the officers so they could not grab him. Willig and the officers talked, and the suicide expert realized that Willig knew what he was doing and was not a threat. The officer passed him a pen and paper, and Willig signed it \"Best Wishes to my co-ascender.\" Police helped him to the top of the tower, by pulling him through a tiny window hatch at 10:05 a.m. and he was arrested. Willig said he could hear the crowd cheering from ground level. His climb received plenty of attention because it took 3½ hours to complete, allowing news cameras and spectators to gather. The only significant problem Willig ran into was irregularities in window washing tracks. However, he was prepared for this because he brought a small hammer to fix the irregularities. He signed his name and the date on a piece of metal on the observation deck of the South Tower, which was still visible until the tower was destroyed on September 11, 2001.\nThe stunt paved the way for appearances on \"The Tonight Show Starring Johnny Carson\", \"Good Morning America\", \"The Merv Griffin Show\", and ABC's \"Wide World of Sports\". He also got jobs as a stuntman on \"The Six Million Dollar Man\", \"Trauma Center\", and \"Hollywood Beat\".\n\nThe Unisphere was climbed in 1976 by George Willig (the so-called \"Human Fly\" who would later climb the World Trade Center), and Jerry Hewitt as part of a short film called The Third Stone Directed by Paul Hornstein. \n\nIn 1979, he published a book called \"Going It Alone\" ().\n\nDuring the 1990s, Willig lived in California's San Fernando Valley, working as a remodeler of commercial buildings.\n\nAfter the 9/11 attacks that destroyed both towers of the World Trade Center, Mr. Willig publicly said he regretted climbing the tower, as his actions may have brought them to the attention of terrorists. But he later told CNN that was just an initial, emotional reaction and that he was still glad to have climbed the tower.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1857443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857443", "title": "Christian Alexander", "text": "Christian Alexander\n\nChristian Alexander (born April 14, 1990) is a Bulgarian-American actor, best known for his role as Kiefer Bauer on the American daytime drama \"General Hospital\".\n\nBorn to Bulgarian parents in Athens, Alexander is a graduate of Beverly Hills High School in Beverly Hills, California. He formerly competed in gymnastics. Alexander has appeared in a number of television series, most notably over sixty episodes of \"General Hospital\" from June 18, 2009 to April 6, 2010. In 2011, he appeared in ABC Family's \"The Lying Game\".\n"}
{"id": "1857449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857449", "title": "Islands in the Stream (song)", "text": "Islands in the Stream (song)\n\n\"Islands in the Stream\" is a song written by the Bee Gees and sung by American country music artists Kenny Rogers and Dolly Parton. It was released in August 1983 as the first single from Rogers's album \"Eyes That See in the Dark\". Named after the Ernest Hemingway novel, it was originally written for Marvin Gaye in an R&B style, only later to be changed for the Kenny Rogers album.\n\nThe song reached number one on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 chart in the United States, giving both Rogers and Parton their second pop number-one hit (after Rogers's \"Lady\" in 1980 and Parton's \"9 to 5\" in 1981). It also topped the Country and Adult Contemporary charts. It has been certified Platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America for selling over two million physical copies in the US. In 2005 the song topped CMT's poll of the best country duets of all time; Parton and Rogers reunited to perform the song on the CMT special.\n\nRogers and Parton went on to record a Christmas album together, and had an additional hit with their 1985 duet \"Real Love\".\n\nDue to licensing reasons, this song wasn't included in digital release of \"Eyes That See in the Dark\" from Capitol Records Nashville. Sony Music, the current owner of RCA Records, protected copyrights for this recording, and is digitally available only in various compilations from Sony Music, especially that of Dolly Parton.\n\nThe song is sung in C major moderate time, with Rogers and Parton alternating lead vocals. Their version features a key change from C major to A-flat major.\n\nIt knocked Bonnie Tyler's \"Total Eclipse of the Heart\" out of No. 1 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100, also topping the Country and Adult Contemporary listings. In December of that year it was certified Platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America for selling over two million physical copies in the US. After it became available for digital download, it has also sold a further 834,000 digital copies in the US as of January 2019. \n\nIn Australia the song was number one for one week in December 1983 and became one of the highest selling singles of 1984.\n\nThe song reached a peak of No. 7 in the UK singles chart in 1983. Since then it has also sold 245,577 digital copies in the UK as of July 2014. As of 2017 it has racked up 287,200 downloads and 4.83 million streams in the UK.\n\nIn April 2008, South Bend, Indiana, radio station WZOW played the song continuously for several days on end, a stunt drawing attention to the station's format change from alternative rock to adult contemporary.\n\n\nThe Bee Gees performed their version live at the MGM Grand in Las Vegas on 14 November 1997, which was released a year later on \"One Night Only\", with solo vocal by Barry Gibb. A studio version was recorded for their 2001 retrospective \"\", which has since featured on the 2004 \"Number Ones\" and on the 2010 \"Mythology\" box set. The chorus of Pras' 1998 hit \"Ghetto Supastar (That Is What You Are)\", which in turn is a reworking of the original Rogers and Parton release, replaces the final chorus in the studio recording. The live version of the song appears on their \"Love Songs\" compilation.\n\n\nwith\n\nOn March 8, 2009, Welsh actors Ruth Jones and Rob Brydon, in character as Vanessa Jenkins and Bryn West from the hit BBC sitcom \"Gavin & Stacey\", released a version of the song as a single for Comic Relief. Sir Tom Jones also features on the song, performing the final verse and chorus, whilst Robin Gibb appears on the single as a backing vocalist.\n\nRe-titled \"(Barry) Islands in the Stream\", in reference to the Barry Island setting of \"Gavin & Stacey\", it entered at the top of the UK Singles Chart on March 15, 2009—for the week ending date March 21, 2009. This meant the Gibb Brothers had achieved number one songs in five successive decades, the first songwriters to achieve this feat. It also made Sir Tom Jones, at the age of 68, the oldest person to have a UK number one song, until he was beaten in 2020 by Captain Tom Moore for his involvement in \"You'll Never Walk Alone\" at the age of 99.\n\nThe video was filmed in Barry Island, Las Vegas and the Nevada desert, with both Gibb and Jones appearing in the video alongside Jones and Brydon. Nigel Lythgoe also makes a cameo appearance as a talent competition judge.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1857450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857450", "title": "Chaudhari Kumbharam Arya", "text": "Chaudhari Kumbharam Arya\n\nChaudhary Kumbharam Arya (10 May 1914 – 26 October 1995) was a freedom fighter, parliamentarian and popular leader of farmers in Rajasthan, India.Shri Kumbha Ram Arya was a member of Seventh Lok Sabha during 1980-84\nrepresenting Sikar Parliamentary constituency of Rajasthan. Earlier, he was a\nmember of Rajya Sabha during 1960-64 and 1969-74.\nHe had been a member of Rajasthan Legislative Assembly during 1952-57\nand 1964–66 and also served as a Minister in the State Council of Ministers\nand held various portfolios.\nAn agriculturist by profession, Shri Arya was an active social and\npolitical worker. During his long public life, he was actively involved in\nsocial, educational and agrarian activities in his home State. A prominent\nKisan Leader, he worked hard for creating consciousness among the workers and\npeasants and authored the book titled Kisan Union Kyon. He was closely\nassociated with various organisations working for establishment of Panchayat\nRaj and was founder of Rajasthan Panchayat Raj Sangh.\n\nIn princely states of Rajputana, which came into existence on 30 March 1949, the farmers were tenants of the land and their condition was deplorable under the exploitation of landlords called Jajirdars, Zamindars and Bishwedars etc. The tenant had no right over the land cultivated by him. He was only the tiller of the soil, but was under the whimsical mercy of those landlords. But the farmers as a class were awakening in Bikaner state under the leadership of Chaudhary Kumbharam Arya and there was turmoil of the tiller demanding, “Land to tiller”. This hostile state of affairs led the newly formed state government to take immediate steps to reconcile the situation. The pressure of protection of the tenants was so immense that the government had to take immediate steps and with this aim “The Rajasthan Protection of Tenants Ordinance, 1949” was promulgated to meet the burning need of the time. The Rajasthan Land Reforms and Resumption of Jagirs Act, 1952 was the landmark in the legal history of land reforms in Rajasthan. The pressure of farmers united under the leadership of Chaudhary Kumbharam Arya forced the state government to promulgate The Rajasthan Tenancy Act, 1955 which became applicable to the whole of Rajasthan. The overriding effect of this Act provided relief to the existing tenants and the rights accrued to tenants accordingly. He also amended the rules of felling trees in favour of farmers. Farmers were not allowed to fell trees from his land. This caused great difficulty. It was he who pressurized the state government to amend the rules and permit the farmer to fell trees from land of his ownership for his own use.\n\nShri Kumbha Ram Arya died on 26 October 1995 at the age of\n81 years.ARYA, SHRI KUMBHA RAM (Janata (S)— Rajasthan, Sikar, 1980] s. of Shri Bhaira Ram Chaudhary; b. at Phephana Village Nohar Tahsil, Shri Ganganagar District, June, 1914; Matriculate; m. Smt, Bhudevi Ji; 2 s. and 5 d.; Agriculturist; previously associated with Akhil Bharatiya Deshi Raj Lok Parishad-before independence and thereafter with Indian National Congress; Janata Party; (Rajasthan), 1967; Bharatiya KrantiDal; Bharatiya Lok Dal, Janata Party; presently with Lok Dal (Janata-S); Minister of revenue Bikaner State, 1948; Minister of Health, Police, Minerals and Industry, 1951, Minister of Health and Local Self Government 1954-55 and Minister of Revenue, 1964-67 Government of Rajasthan; Founder, Rajasthan Panchayat Raj Sangh 1957-58; vice President, Akhil Bharatiya Panchayat Parishad, l957-58; Member, (i) Rajasthan Legislative Assembly, 1952–57, 1964–66, (ii) Rajya Sabha, 1960–64 and again, 1969-74.\n\nIn 2018, Indian Politician and AICC President Mr.Rahul Gandhi mistakenly goofed up while addressing an election rally in Rajasthan, the home state of late Shri. Arya,by calling Kumbhakaran Lift Yojana,on an irrigation project named after the veteran congress leader. The insult though,left people in splits, later got corrected when people in the audience corrected Mr.Gandhi. This incident led to renewed interest in the life of Mr.Arya and Hindu mythological demon Kumbhakarna from Ramayana amongst the fans of Rahul Gandhi\n\n"}
{"id": "1857451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857451", "title": "Booragoon, Western Australia", "text": "Booragoon, Western Australia\n\nBooragoon is a suburb of Perth, Western Australia located within the City of Melville.\n\nBooragoon is the indigenous name for the lower reaches of the Canning River.\n\nIt is home to Garden City Shopping Centre and the council offices for the City of Melville. Transport is provided by the nearby Booragoon bus station.\n"}
{"id": "1857452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857452", "title": "Bella Davidovich", "text": "Bella Davidovich\n\nBella Mikhaylovna Davidovich (Бэлла Миха́йловна Давидо́вич; born July 16, 1928) is a Soviet-born American pianist.\n\nDavidovich was born in Baku, Azerbaijan SSR, into a family of musicians and began studying piano when she was six. Three years later, she was the soloist for a performance of Beethoven's Piano Concerto No. 1. In 1939, she moved to Moscow to continue her musical education. At the age of 18 she entered the Moscow Conservatory where she studied with Konstantin Igumnov and Yakov Flier. In 1949, she shared the first prize with Halina Czerny-Stefańska at the 4th International Frederick Chopin Piano Competition. This launched her on a career in the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe, in which she appeared with every major Russian conductor and performed as a soloist with the Leningrad Philharmonic Orchestra for 28 consecutive seasons. She also taught at the Moscow Conservatory for sixteen years. She was married to violinist Julian Sitkovetsky. Their son, Dmitry Sitkovetsky, is a violinist and conductor.\n\nIn 1978 she emigrated to the United States, where she became a naturalized citizen. She has taught at the Juilliard School in New York City since 1982. With the spirit of perestroika, she became the first Soviet émigré musician to receive an official invitation from the Soviet agency Goskoncert to perform in her native country. She played concertos, a recital with her son Dmitry Sitkovetsky playing the violin, and chamber music with the Borodin String Quartet to sold-out halls.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857456", "title": "R71 (South Africa)", "text": "R71 (South Africa)\n\nThe R71 is a provincial route in South Africa that connects Polokwane with the Kruger National Park via the major towns of Tzaneen and Phalaborwa.\n\nThe R71 is used daily by people who work or reside in Dalmada, Mothiba, Nobody, Moria, Mankweng, Turfloop and Boyne. The road is well known to touring bikers who frequently visit the province from all other parts of the country, because of the scenic route through Magoebaskloof.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857458", "title": "R72 (South Africa)", "text": "R72 (South Africa)\n\nThe R72 is a provincial route in South Africa that connects the N2 east of Port Elizabeth with East London via Port Alfred. It provides an alternative to the N2 for travel between Port Elizabeth and East London.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857459", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857459", "title": "Valley Grande, Alabama", "text": "Valley Grande, Alabama\n\nValley Grande is a city in Dallas County, Alabama, United States, just north of Selma. Incorporated in early 2003, Valley Grande has a mayor-council form of government. The city's population was 4,020 at the time of the 2010 census.\n\nValley Grande encompasses the historic community of Summerfield. Established in 1819 as \"Valley Creek\", the town was renamed \"Summerfield\" in 1845 to honor the noted Methodist preacher John Summerfield. In 1829, the first academy in Dallas County was chartered in Valley Creek. In 1842, the Alabama Conference of the Methodist Church opened the Methodist Centenary Institute, a coeducational institution chartered by the Alabama Legislature on January 2, 1841. At its peak when cotton production was profitable, Summerfield was a very prosperous community of planters, doctors, merchants, ministers, and educators. The historical core of Summerfield has survived intact and is listed on the National Register of Historic Places as a historic district encompassing .. On January 9, 2003 the people of Valley Grande voted 9 to 1 for incorporation as the Town of Valley Grande. After the election of a mayor and five-member town council the vast majority of the Summerfield area was voluntarily annexed as part of Valley Grande.\n\nValley Grande is located in northeastern Dallas County at 32.486872, -87.032773. It is bordered to the south by the city of Selma, the county seat.\n\nAccording to the United States Census Bureau, Valley Grande has a total area of , of which is land and is water.\n\nAs of the census of 2010, there were 4,020 people, 1,559 households, and 1,173 families residing in the city. The population density was 118.9 people per square mile (45.6/km²). The racial makeup of the city was 75.2% White, 23% Black or African American, 0.4% Native American, 0.4% Asian, 0.2% from other races, and 0.8% from two or more races.\n\nThere were 1,559 households, out of which 33.4% had children under the age of 18 living with them; 34.2% were married couples living together, 10.6% had a female householder with no husband present, and 24.8% were non-families. 21.7% of all households were made up of individuals and 10.9% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.58 and the average family size was 3.00.\n\nThe median income for a household in the city was $57,432, and the median income for a family was $64,461. Males had a median income of $42,456 versus $37,722 for females. The per capita income for the city was $25,767. About 8.7% of families and 8.8% of the population were below the poverty line, including 15.1% of those under age 18 and 6.4% of those age 65 or over.\n\nThe city government is composed of a mayor and five at-large council members. The current mayor is Matt Dobbs. The city council members are Tim White, Ronald Sawyer, Lamar Morgan, Tammy Troha and Jimmy Johnson.\n\nResidents are zoned to schools in Dallas County Schools. Valley Grande Elementary School and Martin Middle School, within the city, serve the county. Most high school-aged students attend the public Dallas County High School, located in Plantersville, a nearby unincorporated area.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857460", "title": "R73 (South Africa)", "text": "R73 (South Africa)\n\nThe R73 is a provincial route in South Africa that connects Welkom with Winburg.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857463", "title": "R74 (South Africa)", "text": "R74 (South Africa)\n\nThe R74 is a provincial route in South Africa that connects Harrismith with KwaDukuza (previously Stanger) on the coast, via Oliviershoek Pass, Bergville, Winterton, Colenso, Weenen, Greytown.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857466", "title": "Darrell Winfield", "text": "Darrell Winfield\n\nDarrell H. Winfield (July 30, 1929 – January 12, 2015) was an American rancher and model best known as \"The Marlboro Man\" in television commercials and magazine advertisements for Marlboro cigarettes.\n\nWinfield was born in Kansas, Oklahoma. His family relocated to California's San Joaquin Valley when he was 6 years old. This move was inspired by the \"Okie migration\" of the 1930s in which many midwest farming families, devastated by the Dust Bowl, headed west to California to start over. He was the Marlboro Man from 1968 until 1989. He is also credited with being the most portrayed man in the world by some. Philip Morris has used many cowboys for their ads but has declared that Winfield was \"really the Marlboro man.\" \n\nAs an adult, Winfield moved to Wyoming and began ranching. Executives from Leo Burnett Worldwide, an advertising agency, visited the ranch where Winfield was working in June 1968 to take photographs for a new Phillip Morris sales campaign. They liked Winfield's looks and asked him if he would be interested in working for Marlboro. The first Marlboro advertisement featuring Winfield was \"The Sheriff\".\n\nIn a 1986 interview, Winfield stated that he thought that his \"life would have basically been the same\" had he not been given the chance to work for Marlboro.\n\nWinfield died in Riverton, Wyoming on January 12, 2015, aged 85. That year Winfield was inducted into the Wyoming Cowboy Hall of Fame.\n"}
{"id": "1857468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857468", "title": "R75 (South Africa)", "text": "R75 (South Africa)\n\nThe R75 is a provincial route in South Africa that connects Graaff-Reinet with Port Elizabeth.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857470", "title": "Shakaya", "text": "Shakaya\n\nShakaya were an Australian girl group formed in Cairns, Queensland in 2002 by Simone Stacey and Naomi Wenitong. The two met in 1999 while studying an Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander music course and they had both been writing individually before they met each other. The girls were initially discovered in Cairns by Reno Nicastro and Michael Pearson-Adams. Nicastro produced most of the girls' songs and gave them free studio time for two years.\n\nThe band's name, 'Shakaya', was originally going to be 'Kashaya', but then their manager mixed the letters around and it became 'Shakaya'. Stacey and Wenitong did some research and found out that the word \"shakaya\" has a broad range of meanings in a lot of different cultures. The one that really stood out for them was the meaning \"voices in the wind\" (which they incorrectly credit as \"Native American Indian\", but is actually a Hindu female name). For a time, Shakaya became Australia's most successful female urban pop act and they toured with Destiny's Child, Usher, Kylie Minogue and Ja Rule.\n\nNaomi is now a member of the hip hop group The Last Kinection. In April 2013, Simone auditioned for Season 2 of \"The Voice Australia\" and after successfully having three judges turn their chairs she chose Seal as her coach. Simone was however unable to defeat Michelle Martinez in their Battle Round and was eliminated.\n\nThe girls were in Sydney in August 2001 and that morning they had a showcase lined up at Sony Music. It was a small, intimate room where they had to perform and they performed four songs. At the end of it, they walked out of the room and within five minutes Sony Music came back and told them they were signed. On 18 January 2002, the duo released their first and debut song called \"Stop Calling Me\". It is a song about stalking situations based on a real-life experience that they and their male and female friends have had. The song entered the charts at number forty-five on 25 February 2002. The song rose up the charts from then on and because of more airplay the song managed to peak into the top ten at number five. It became Shakaya's biggest hit of their career, being certified platinum by ARIA, becoming the forty-third highest selling single for 2002, and being nominated for the \"Highest Selling Single\" for the 2002 ARIA Awards. The second song released was \"Sublime\", released in Australia on 17 May 2002 and became the duo's second top twenty single peaking at number nineteen in June 2002. \"Cinderella\" was the third and last song released by the duo; it became their third top twenty single, peaking at number sixteen, and it was certified gold by ARIA. Their debut self-titled album \"Shakaya\" was finally released in Australia on 18 October 2002 and was received well, debuting in the charts at number five on 28 October 2002. The album fell to number forty-eight the next week and only spent seven weeks in the top one hundred. On 14 April 2003 the band released a cover version of the Michael Jackson hit \"The Way You Make Me Feel\"; the girls said it was amazing to cover of one of his songs because he is the King of Pop. The song had a minor success on the charts peaking at number twenty-one and staying in the top fifty for seven weeks.\n\n\"Are You Ready\" was recorded over an eighteen-month period in Cairns, Sydney and the United States with a range of producers. The first song released from the album was titled \"Are You Ready\" and was released on 10 June 2005; it was written and produced by the MadNotes team (who have previously worked with Alicia Keys and Justin Timberlake). The song was promoted well and peaked at number twenty-five on the singles chart. Five months later, the duo released the second and last song from the album, \"We Ain't Goin' Down\", on 13 November 2005, and it was their lowest charting single, peaking at number fifty. The album was finally released on 5 March 2006 including the two singles but did not chart in the ARIA top 100 albums.\n\nThe group disbanded due to Naomi Wenitong joining the group The Last Kinection in 2006.\n\n[[Category:Queensland musical groups]"}
{"id": "1857471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857471", "title": "R76 (South Africa)", "text": "R76 (South Africa)\n\nThe R76 is a provincial route in South Africa that connects Orkney with Bethlehem via Kroonstad.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857472", "title": "Alan Scholefield", "text": "Alan Scholefield\n\nAlan Scholefield (15 January 1931 – 26 October 2017) was a South African writer famous for his \"Macrae and Silver\" series.\n\nHe lived in Hampshire and was married to Australian novelist Anthea Goddard. They had three daughters.\n\nBorn in Cape Town, Scholefield was educated at Queen's College, Queenstown and the University of Cape Town where he read Eng. Lit. and where he won an athletics blue and broke a South African junior record. After university, from which he graduated in 1951, Scholefield became a journalist on The Cape Times and The Cape Argus.\n\nScholefield was one of a group of journalists and writers who left South Africa in the sixties to escape the rigid apartheid of the Prime Minister, Dr. Verwoerd.\n\nWith his first wife Patricia, he lived in Spain writing short stories for America, Canada and London. The marriage broke up in 1960 and in 1962 he married the Australian journalist and novelist Anthea Goddard and settled in London. He worked in the London bureau of the Sydney Morning Herald twice, in 1954 and 1960. Then as Defence Correspondent of The Scotsman. After his first marriage broke up his second wife encouraged him to leave journalism to write novels.\n\nScholefield's first novel \"A View of Vultures\" was published in 1966. In addition to his novels, Scholefield has written a non-fiction history of three African monarchies, \"The Dark Kingdoms\". In the early 1960s his book Great Elephant was optioned by the American producer Jud Kinberg and sold on to CBS New York for which Scholefield did the first and second draft screenplays. He has written three dramas for South African Broadcasting (SABC) and a stage adaptation of \"Treasure Island\".\n\nIn 1981 Scholefield's novel \"Venom\" was made into a film starring Klaus Kinski, Nicol Williamson and Oliver Reed.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1857473", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857473", "title": "R80 (South Africa)", "text": "R80 (South Africa)\n\nThe R80 is a provincial route in Gauteng, South Africa that connects the Pretoria CBD with Mabopane and Soshanguve. It is a dual carriageway freeway, with 2 or 3 lanes in each direction at different points and is named the \"Mabopane Highway\".\n\nIt starts at a t-junction with the M1 Road of Tshwane in the suburb of Roseville (5km north of Pretoria CBD), heading westwards & meeting the R55 Road. It passes through the Theo Martins Gateway (\"Afrikaans:Theo Martins Poort\"), a mountain pass over the Magaliesberg mountains, and the northbound carriageway has a rising hairpin bend, approaching the pass, as the freeway abruptly switches an from east-west to a south-north direction.\n\nJust after the R513 road off-ramp, an interchange has been constructed that links the road with the N4 Route (Northern Pretoria Bypass), which is part of the Platinum Highway.\n\nThe highway proceeds to meet the R566 road at an off-ramp just east of Rosslyn and ends at a junction with the M39 Road of Tshwane in Soshanguve, with the M39 providing access to Mabopane in the north-west.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857477", "title": "R81 (South Africa)", "text": "R81 (South Africa)\n\nThe R81 is a provincial route in South Africa that connects Polokwane with the R524 at Malamulele\n\n"}
{"id": "1857479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857479", "title": "R82 (South Africa)", "text": "R82 (South Africa)\n\nThe R82 is a provincial route in South Africa that connects Johannesburg with Kroonstad via Vereeniging and Sasolburg.\nIt starts just south of the M1 Johannesburg Municipal Highway's interchange with the N12 Southern Bypass (Uncle Charlie's Interchange), going south, meeting the R59, R54, R42 & R28 At Vereeniging before crossing the Vaal River into the Free State & proceeding to Kroonstad.\nIt is an alternative, but longer route to the N1 National Route between Johannesburg & Kroonstad.\n\nThe R82 is an alternative route to the N1 National Highway from Johannesburg to Kroonstad, with the N1 highway being a shorter and more direct route by about 20 Kilometres. While the N1 has tollgates, the R82 is toll-free.\n\nThe R82 Road begins in the southern suburbs of Johannesburg. It comes from Johannesburg Central in the north as the M1 Johannesburg Municipal Highway and changes to the R82 designation just after meeting the N12 Southern Bypass (Johannesburg Ring Road) (Uncle Charlie's Interchange) in Johannesburg South, near the Southgate suburb. At this interchange, only the N12 and the M1 have access to each other (N12 east to M1 north and M1 south to N12 west; no access between the N12 and the R82).\n\nAt the next off-ramp with Columbine Avenue (M68) by Southgate Shopping Centre, the route stops being a highway and continues southwards as Vereeniging Road. it continues for 6 kilometres to meet the R554 route (Swartkoppies Road) from Alberton west of Kibler Park and they are cosigned southwards for 800 metres up to the western terminus of the R550 route from Nigel (at a four-way-junction), where the R554 route becomes the road westwards towards Lenasia.\n\nThe R82 continues south for 11 kilometres, crossing into the Midvaal Local Municipality, to meet the R557 route from Meyerton at Walkerville and they are cosigned for 3 kilometres southwards before the R557 route becomes the road westwards towards Kanana Park. The R82 continues for 22 kilometres southwards, through De Deur, meeting the R551 route at a staggered junction and entering the Emfuleni Local Municipality, to enter Vereeniging as Old Johannesburg Road.\n\nAt the four-way-junction with the R54 Route (Houtkop Road) near the Duncanville suburb, under the passing R59 Sybrand van Niekerk Freeway, the R82 becomes Voortrekker Street and is the main road southwards through Vereeniging Central. At Beaconsfield Avenue in Vereeniging Central, the R82 meets the south-eastern terminus of the R28 route from Sebokeng. At the 3rd junction afterwards (with Victoria Avenue), the R82 meets the R42 Route from Vanderbijlpark and they become cosigned on the road eastwards from this junction. At the 2nd junction (with Mario Milani Drive), just after passing under the Vereeniging Railway, the R42 becomes the road northwards towards Three Rivers, leaving the R82 as the road eastwards. Right after this junction, the R82 crosses the Vaal River into the Free State.\n\nThe R82 crosses the Vaal River into the Metsimaholo Local Municipality as Problem Road. Right after crossing the Vaal River, the road turns southwards and continues for 7 kilometres to Viljoensdrif, where it meets Ascot-On-Vaal Road from Vanderbijlpark, Gauteng and the R716 route to Deneysville (on the western banks of the Vaal Dam).\n\nThe R82 continues southwards for 12 kilometres to the south-eastern area of Sasolburg (east of the Zamdela constituency), where it meets the R57 route between Vanderbijlpark and Heilbron and a road linking eastwards to Deneysville (Vaal Dam). After the Sasolburg area, the R82 crosses into the Ngwathe Local Municipality and continues south-west for 58 kilometres, intersecting with the R723 route (co-signed for 2.7 kilometers), bypassing the town of Koppies, to reach an intersection with the R720 route.\n\nThe R82 and the R720 are co-signed south-east for 4 kilometres, crossing the Renoster River, before the R82 becomes its own road south-west. The R82 travels for 52 kilometres, through Heuningspruit, to end at an intersection with the R34 route north-east of Kroonstad (2 kilometres east of its interchange with the N1 Highway) in the Moqhaka Local Municipality.\n\n"}
