{"id": "2058675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2058675", "title": "Natural Selection (Fuel album)", "text": "Natural Selection (Fuel album)\n\nNatural Selection is Fuel's third album, released in 2003 on Epic Records. It features generally the same style as heard on the band's previous two efforts but didn't manage to match their commercial success.\n\nPreceding the album's release \"Won't Back Down\" was featured as the lead single of the film soundtrack \"\". \"Falls on Me\" served as the first single of \"Natural Selection\" and received much airplay on MTV throughout the summer. The album also had a third marginally successful single in \"Million Miles\". The song \"Quarter\" was featured in the video games \"\", \"NFL Street\", and \"NASCAR Thunder 2004\".\n\nFollowing the multi-platinum success of their previous album \"Something Like Human\", Fuel had some setbacks to overcome before they could begin recording the album that became \"Natural Selection\". First off, the band had to resolve some pressing legal matters which prohibited them from recording.\n\nMedical problems also inhibited the recording of the album. In 1998, singer Brett Scallions collided on stage with guitarist–songwriter Carl Bell during the band's Sunburn tour. This left Scallions with a deviated septum that required medical attention. Scallions relearned how to sing after losing his voice during the surgery: \"I think I basically had to relearn how to sing... I had to recondition myself and figure out how to sing again.\"\n\nBell expressed confidence in \"Natural Selection\", stating \"The record is, I think, far and beyond any of the other records we've had as a body of work.\" Producer Michael Beinhorn has stated that \"Natural Selection\" is one of his favorite albums that he's produced.\n\n\"Natural Selection\" debuted at No. 15 on the \"Billboard\" 200 album chart, selling about 71,000 copies in its first week of release. The album was later nominated for a Grammy Award in 2004 for best engineered album.\n\n\"Natural Selection\" would prove to be the final Fuel album to feature drummer Kevin Miller and Scallions on vocals. Miller was fired from the band in 2004, and Scallions left in 2006, stating that \"... there was no fun in [making the album] because there was no activity within the band.\" Scallions' feelings of lack of group activity along with Bell's feelings of Scallions vocal troubles led to Scallions' eventual departure from the group. Fuel would release their next album with a new drummer and lead vocalist, and later Scallions reformed Fuel in 2010.\n\nAll songs written by Carl Bell, except where noted.\n\n"}
{"id": "2058678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2058678", "title": "One-Day Internationals in England in 2005", "text": "One-Day Internationals in England in 2005\n\nThirteen One Day Internationals were played in England in 2005 - 06in the NatWest Series between England, Bangladesh and Australia, and three between England and Australia in the NatWest Challenge immediately following the Series.\n\nAmid rains at The Oval, Jon Lewis had a stunning ODI debut for the England cricket team against Bangladesh, removing Javed Omar and Mohammad Ashraful with successive deliveries before taking out Nafees Iqbal in a good opening spell. Admittedly, it was aided by cloudy skies, which gave Lewis plenty of swing - his main threat - but it was still a decent return for the debutant. Steve Harmison was his usual erratic self, going for nine off the first five balls of an over before removing Tushar Imran with a ball that was gloved onto the stumps just before the end of 15 overs, making it 57 for 4. Habibul Bashar, the highest averaging Bangladesh batsman, gloved a short ball from Harmison to a diving Geraint Jones, and he was on his way for 19 - Bangladesh now 72 for 5. Lewis actually bowled his ten overs straight, ending with three for 32, as the last over was just an exercise in defending from the visitors. Wicketkeeper Khaled Mashud was next to go, attempting a pull off a poor ball down the legside, for 1. However, a solid recovery from Aftab Ahmed and Mohammad Rafique slowly gave the Bangladeshis a chance, before rain intervened again after 30 overs.\n\nComing back from the rain break, Aftab and Rafique continued to smack the England bowlers, particularly Paul Collingwood, but eventually Rafique gave a chance to Harmison at long leg and the Bangladeshis were seven down for 152. And only a couple of overs later, Aftab was out in a close run-out decision, for 51. Khaled Mahmud then went for a golden duck, playing a poor shot to a short ball from Harmison, his fourth wicket of the day. However, Nazmul Hossain and Mashrafe Mortaza frustrated the English bowlers, with Darren Gough eventually ending the resistance as he got Nazmul for 6 to end the innings for 190. However, the Bangladeshis offered no resistance in the bowling, as only Mortaza was hit for less than six an over. Marcus Trescothick hit his ninth One Day International century off just 76 balls, Andrew Strauss supplied with a level-headed 82, and ten extras added up to a total of 192. The winning runs - a four from Strauss - were hit inside 25 overs and with all ten wickets to spare.\n\nPerhaps, the biggest upset in the history of limited overs cricket, Mashrafe Mortaza shocked the Sophia Gardens crowd when he had Adam Gilchrist plumb on the second ball of the second ODI, taking the first Australian wicket without a run yet on the scoreboard - and it was to set the tone of the match. Most people would have expected Australia to swamp Bangladesh, especially after the 10-wicket defeat the Bangladeshi Tigers endured in the opening match with England, but a maiden from Mortaza gave them some hope, at least. Things looked to be going the right way for Australia when Matthew Hayden took a boundary off Tapash Baisya, but another maiden followed, and in the sixth over Ricky Ponting padded up to Tapash Baisya - resulting in an lbw decision given, and Australia were - incredibly - 9 for 2. Cautious batting from Hayden and Damien Martyn followed, but some expensive bowling from Baisya relinquished the initiative, as Australia recovered somewhat. They survived through 15 overs, Hayden being caught off a no-ball from Tapash, but in the 16th, he was bowled by Nazmul Hossain for 37 off an inside edge, just as Hayden were looking to get himself in. Some economical bowling from Mohammad Rafique who bowled ten overs for 31 runs, along with excellent bowling from Mortaza at the death, resulted in Australia finishing on 249 for 5, losing Martyn to Baisya for 77 and Clarke to the same man for 54. In fact, Michael Hussey with 31 not out off 21 balls and Simon Katich with 36 not out off 23 ensured that they got a competitive target.\n\nThat was not all, however. The chase began very sedately, only Tushar Imran looking to take runs as he smashed Brad Hogg about, but Hogg got his revenge when Tushar was out for 24, lofting to Katich. Earlier, Nafees Iqbal had gone for 8, and with Javed Omar out as the third man to fall, for 19 off 51 balls, it looked to be business as usual for Bangladesh. But this match had more tricks up its sleeve. Hogg and Clarke leaked runs like a drain, six wides were bowled, and Mohammad Ashraful showed another glimpse of why he's been called Bangladesh's finest batsman. As he made the second ODI hundred in the Bangladesh team's history, he forged a massive 130-run partnership with Habibul Bashar, and had a great two hours at the crease (although dropped on 54) - before picking out Jason Gillespie at long on to be out for exactly 100. Bangladesh still needed 23 runs off 17 balls, but Aftab Ahmed continued his fine form from the Oval match with England, as he first took a leg bye off Ashraful, then gave the strike to Rafique, who smashed a cover driven four before taking another legbye. A four and a dot-ball finished a 10-run over, meaning that Bangladesh now needed only 13 off 12 balls. A good over from McGrath followed, as he conceded only six runs - including an edged four from Rafique. With the last over, Bangladesh needed seven runs, and Ahmed swung the first ball of the over to midwicket for six. Thus, it became a formality - Bangladesh won with four balls and five wickets to spare, almost convincing in today's cricket, and the result meant that the Aussies needed a victory over England at Bristol the following day to have any chance of winning the group stage.\n\nRicky Ponting chose to bat when he won the toss for the visiting Australian cricket team in an extremely tense and see-sawing match at The County Ground, Bristol. It looked like a great decision when Jon Lewis and Darren Gough were smashed about early on, as Australia made their way to 57 for 0 after 11 overs with Adam Gilchrist and Matthew Hayden taking sixes off Lewis over midwicket. However, with the entrance of Steve Harmison, everything changed. In his third over - the twelfth of the game, he removed Gilchrist with a bouncy ball that the batsman edged behind, then Ponting with a yorker that he didn't play at - resulting in lbw - then a dot ball, and then Martyn with a slog shot to Pietersen at third man. Australia tried to consolidate, but when Hayden tried to hit out off Harmison four overs later, Paul Collingwood jumped up to pick the ball out of the air with his right hand - a magnificent catch, and Australia had lost four wickets for six runs, reminiscent of their collapse in the Twenty20 match earlier on in the week.\n\nAustralia dug themselves out of the hole, however, Michael Clarke and Michael Hussey slowly accumulating to increase the rate. England clearly lacked a fifth-bowler, opting instead for Vikram Solanki to bat down the order, so they used a combination of Michael Vaughan, Solanki and Collingwood to get through their ten required overs. That let Australia off the hook, with Clarke and Hussey adding 105, before Jon Lewis - who had been taken to the cleaners earlier on - dug out Michael Clarke with an inside edge onto the stumps, taking the fifth wicket of the game at just the right time. Shane Watson accumulated well with Hussey, however, hitting six an over as Lewis was smashed about again, but Harmison got his revenge by completing his first five-wicket-haul in ODIs as Hussey was beaten by a slower ball - the first time Hussey had been dismissed in One-Day Internationals, for a batting average of 229. Then, Andrew Flintoff was brought back, getting a splendid yorker in for Watson, who was out for 25 just as the Aussies were preparing to hit out - the score 220 for 7 after 44.1 overs. Jason Gillespie and Brad Hogg survived a couple of overs from Flintoff and Harmison - meaning that Harmison finished with five for 33 off ten overs. Towards the end, Australia built up again, before losing Gillespie to a top edge, but 244 for 8 with seven balls remaining still looked difficult for England to chase. Gough dug out Michael Kasprowicz with a yorker with two balls to spare, and four legbyes ended the innings to take Australia to 252 for 9.\n\nEngland started positively in reply, taking 39 off the first 34 legal deliveries (while Gillespie served up four wides and a no-ball in his first over), but Glenn McGrath took revenge by serving up a good yorker to have Marcus Trescothick bowled for 16. Two overs later, Andrew Strauss went in identical fashion, and Vaughan and Collingwood were forced to consolidate. They did, although in jerky fashion, Collingwood eventually falling to Kasprowicz and Flintoff mistiming a hit off Hogg to see England into a spot of bother at 119 for 4 after 27.2 overs, with Vaughan and Kevin Pietersen at the crease. Edges and runs followed, but when England lost Vaughan and Geraint Jones in quick succession, and were 93 short with only 74 deliveries left, it looked dark for England. Pietersen then upped the ante. Smashing runs to all corners, especially off Gillespie, he reached his fifty off 46 balls, and then took 19 more deliveries to bring up an additional 41 runs - although surviving an extremely close run-out decision near the 40th over. A level headed 7 not out from Lewis - making up somewhat for his bowling - ensured the English were home by three wickets and 15 deliveries - and the Australians had only managed two points from their first two matches, while England had gained 11.\n(Cricinfo scorecard)'\n\nMichael Vaughan chose to bat first on a good batting wicket at Trent Bridge, as England looked to set a massive target and keep up their good form. After a bit of a shaky start, with Andrew Strauss being dropped, but Marcus Trescothick smashed boundaries to all corners as Bangladesh's bowlers were made to look distinctly ordinary. Trescothick made a 51-ball fifty, before taking Tapash apart in the 15th over, as England cruised to 128 for 0 after 15 overs. A couple of overs later, Nazmul Hossain made the breakthrough, a massive smash ending in Shahriar Nafees' hands, as Trescothick hit an entertaining 85.\n\nThe new batsman Vaughan looked shaky at the crease, and eventually finished with an eight-ball duck, giving an inside edge to Nazmul's bowling. Andrew Flintoff was next to fall, giving a catch off Aftab Ahmed to skipper Habibul Bashar for 17, but good recuperation from Strauss and Paul Collingwood kept the run rate well over six, and Strauss could hit a 100-ball century with a single off Rafique in the fortieth over, and with the next ball Collingwood hit his fifty with a boundary. After ten over, England were 270 for 3, and Strauss and Collingwood decided to have some fun. The next nine overs went for 116 runs, Nazmul getting Strauss with the second last ball of the innings for 152 - England's second highest ODI score, and their highest since 1983. Paul Collingwood made 112 not out as well - only his second ODI century - to propel England to 391 for 4, the second highest ODI score of all time.\n\nChris Tremlett, England's ODI debutant, started well with good pace - near 140 km/h - while Jon Lewis served up full tosses and wides from the other end. In the tenth over, Tremlett got his due reward, first having Shahriar Nafees gone with an inside edge and then followed up with having Tushar Imran caught behind for a golden duck. Mohammad Ashraful was then given another life, misreading a ball from Tremlett which ended up on the stumps - incredibly, the bails stayed on, so Ashraful survived. The next 20 balls he faced were duly dispatched for runs - he particularly took a liking to Steve Harmison, who conceded more in 17 balls today than in the entire match against Australia - and he made the fastest ODI fifty by a Bangladeshi off just 21 balls. He looked to be on his way to the fifth-fastest ODI century, having hit 94 off 51 balls, but eventually hit one expansive stroke too many as he was bowled by Collingwood.\n\nThat calmed the nerves of the England team - after 26 overs, Bangladesh required ten an over for the last 24 overs with seven wickets in hand and Javed Omar and Habibul Bashar - both with a batting strike rate which equated to less than four an over - at the crease. The only question was whether the Bangladeshis could steal a bonus point from the English, which looked unlikely as Collingwood grabbed two quick wickets and reduced them to 180 for 5, and in the next over he removed Javed Omar as the Bangladeshi got an inside edge. Collingwood eventually finished with six for 31, taking Khaled Mashud and Mashrafe Mortaza as well, Mortaza bowled with the last ball of his 10-over-spell - to become the first person in ODI history to make a century and take a six-wicket-haul. Harmison, however, the hero of the last game, had to endure dropped catches off his bowling as he conceded 55 runs from eight overs, but he was not needed to bowl all ten as Tremlett removed Mohammad Rafique for 19, ending the Bangladeshi innings on 223 - 168 runs behind England. Overall, England could take some good batting form from their openers and a stunning debut from Tremlett - who looked much more impressive than Lewis in this game - out of the match, while Bangladesh could be happy with the swashbuckling Ashraful and Nazmul's three wickets.\n\nAustralia squared the ODI series by winning a game where England missed their captain Michael Vaughan due to injury. Marcus Trescothick, the stand-in captain, won the toss and decided to chase at the Riverside Ground, thus giving his own side the task of batting under floodlights. Chris Tremlett who had made an impressive debut against Bangladesh, struggled early on with his line and length, and the Australian openers Matthew Hayden and Adam Gilchrist punished him for runs. In his fifth over, however, Tremlett got a breakthrough, Gilchrist mistiming a cut and Geraint Jones taking the catch behind. However, Ricky Ponting didn't toss his wicket away early, leaving it to Hayden to hit the runs, and at the end of 15 overs the Australians were 73 for 1. Andrew Flintoff and Steve Harmison, the change bowlers, kept the pressure up on the batsmen, however, not letting too many runs away even though they bowled the occasional wide, and they could reap the rewards with two quick wickets, Ponting for 27 and Hayden for 39, and people began to remember the last ODI between the sides.\n\nHowever, this time there was no collapse. Two no-balls from Harmison followed, Andrew Symonds and Damien Martyn defended well, waiting for Harmison and Flintoff to be taken off and saved for the last overs. They were - and Australia were let off the hook. Symonds and Martyn paired up for 142 runs, taking runs off every bowler - even Flintoff and Harmison - and batted together for nearly 25 overs, with a partnership run-rate of nearly 6. The first four overs only yielded 13 runs, but when Harmison was taken off England lost the sting. Symonds was finally run out by the skipper Trescothick for 73, a hopeless attempt at taking a single, and Flintoff dug out Michael Hussey for 5 two overs later. Australia, however, made a highly competitive 266 for 5, and in the seaming conditions one would expect it to be enough.\n\nAs it turned out, it was. Brett Lee, opening the bowling for Australia, started off with a maiden over to Trescothick, and England struggled to get off the mark, being four for no wicket after three overs. Another maiden from Glenn McGrath followed, and then Andrew Strauss departed with an inside edge off Lee. In the next over, Trescothick was gone for a 15-ball duck, to an away-swinger from McGrath, and two balls later Paul Collingwood gave a massive inside-edge onto his stumps - England were six for three, and staring down the barrel.\n\nA rescue operation from Andrew Flintoff and Vikram Solanki followed, pairing up for 79 before Solanki was caught at midwicket off Brad Hogg. Then, Flintoff was nearly stumped off Hogg's bowling, only to give a catch at long on later on in the over for 44. With England at 94 for 5, they needed seven and a half runs an over, with Kevin Pietersen and Geraint Jones at the crease. However, even Pietersen couldn't save them this time, as he was caught in the deep off Symonds for 19, and the rest of the match just became a task to bat out 50 overs. Thanks to Darren Gough, who made 46 not out (ironically, the top score of the innings), and a level-headed 11 not out from Steve Harmison, England made that, but lost by 57 runs - thus also losing the bonus point.\n\nAustralia recorded a thumping 10-wicket win over Bangladesh to level their head-to-head record in the NatWest Series to 1–1. Under leaden skies at Old Trafford, Ricky Ponting made the wise decision and chose to bowl, and short-balls from Brett Lee immediately had the Bangladeshis worried. They survived six overs without loss before Javed Omar was trapped by an in-swinger for a 20-ball 3. Tushar Imran was next to fall to Lee, and many expected a procession to begin, but Shahriar Nafees and Mohammad Ashraful gave the crowd a treat with some special strokes. Ashraful had two top-edged sixes, as Lee was dispatched for 20 runs in the eleventh over. By the drinks break after 15 overs, Bangladesh were 76 for 2, having added 53 from the last 39 balls. Ponting, however, brought on the spinners Brad Hogg and Andrew Symonds, who both got a fair amount of turn out of the Old Trafford pitch, and Symonds had Shahriar bowled for 47 with a yorker that he played late to. The next ball, he got the out-of-form captain Habibul Bashar, and the wickets began to tumble quickly. Symonds got five wickets for 18 runs, Hogg three for 29, Bangladesh collapsed from 137 for 6 (when Khaled Mashud was bowled by Hogg) to 139 all out in three overs, as Ashraful went for 58 and no one else really offering any resistance to the slow Australian bowlers.\n\nBangladesh had Adam Gilchrist in some trouble early on, especially through fast bowler Mashrafe Mortaza, who had him beaten several times in the opening overs, but Matthew Hayden was imposing at the crease, punishing the inevitable bad balls from Nazmul Hossain who was taken off after three overs, having conceded 29 runs. However, no one could stop the rot, Hayden and Gilchrist taking runs at will after a while to see Australia to the target inside 20 overs. Australia thus closed the gap to England to three points, as the situation indicated by the ICC rankings before the series became more and more possible - that Bangladesh were to be whipping boys and England and Australia would go through.\n\nA lacklustre effort from England's opening bowlers was still enough to beat Bangladesh and cement a final between England and Australia in the NatWest Series. Habibul Bashar won the toss and batted first, and it looked to pay off as Shahriar Nafees, Javed Omar and Tushar Imran milked runs off the English opening bowlers. Especially Simon Jones - returning from injury - was erratic, bowling eight wides in the match, while Darren Gough was just smashed around the park. However, Jones got the early wicket when Nafees cut it to Marcus Trescothick at slip - before Bangladesh rebuilt again. After 16 overs, they were 82 for 1, and looked to build a sizable target.\n\nHowever, their opener Javed - whose ODI strike rate was just above 50 at the time - slowed things down, and a double blow from Andrew Flintoff - first getting Tushar with an inside edge to have him bowled, and then Mohammad Ashraful for a golden duck - Bodyline-style. That set the Bangladeshis back, and patient bowling from Ashley Giles and Paul Collingwood resulted in the run-out of captain Habibul for 10. With Aftab Ahmed falling for 15, it was up to wicketkeeper Khaled Mashud who did an excellent job in lifting Bangladesh past 200 - taking a particular liking to Gough as he made 42 not out off 43 balls. Flintoff got two more wickets in the innings, finishing with four for 29, as he had Javed bowled for 81 and Mashrafe bowled for 1.\n\nEngland got off to a very good start, with Trescothick and Andrew Strauss continuing in the vein of previous matches against the Bangladeshis, and pairing up for 99 runs for the first wicket. Trescothick was eventually out for 43 to Mohammad Rafique, giving a catch behind, but despite the spinners taking wickets, they were also expensive, Strauss in particular taking them for runs as he was bowled on 98 - attempting a sweep to bring up the win, the bonus point and his own century. Instead, the win was brought up very anticlimactically, Geraint Jones facing three balls before Manjural Islam Rana served up a wide. A disappointment for England would be that Flintoff still struggled with his batting form, only making 22, though in the match it mattered little - England still took the bonus point and qualified for the final, making the last two games redundant for them.\n\nThe eighth match of the NatWest Series eventually became an anti-climax, but for large parts of the match it wasn't - despite the fact that both teams had qualified for the final before the last game. Ricky Ponting won the toss and chose to send his openers in - and they took advantage. Darren Gough was innocuous, conceding 23 runs in his first two overs, prompting a bowling change in the fifth over, sending Steve Harmison on. Meanwhile, Simon Jones got some swing with the new ball - and, yet again in this series, Adam Gilchrist was caught behind off a swing bowler, out for 19. Shortly afterwards, Jones tried to throw the ball back at the wicketkeeper as Matthew Hayden pushed it back to him, but Jones hit Hayden with the balls, and a few words were exchanged - Paul Collingwood joining in the fray as well.\n\nHowever, the match got on, Jones and Harmison putting on the pressure and eventually having Hayden lbw on 14 - after he had failed to score from the last eleven deliveries. Damien Martyn then faced five dot-balls, and Jones served up a wicket maiden, and Australia were at 46 for 2 at the end of the tenth over. However, that was as good as it got for England. Andrew Flintoff dug out skipper Ricky Ponting for 34, but it mattered little, as Martyn and Andrew Symonds took advantage of the bowling. Michael Vaughan tried to put himself on, but Symonds smashed him over midwicket for six - the first of the match, displaying the despair. With some no-balls from Gough, and Simon Jones getting smashed early on, Australia were 220 for 4 after 42 overs, and looked on course for 300. However, the run-out of Symonds for 74 changed the course of the innings. Michael Clarke departed for three, a good catch by Geraint Jones behind the stumps, and Harmison then served up a wicket-maiden in the 46th over, of all things. With Brad Hogg and Jason Gillespie giving soft catches to Gough, that redeemed his figures somewhat, but he still conceded 70 runs. The last over from Flintoff was very good, however, conceding only three runs with yorkers directed at the feet of the batsmen, and Australia had to be content with 261 for 9.\n\nEngland's chase was interrupted once by rain, after three overs, when they were eight for 0, but coming back they were set 200 to win in 33 overs. That was never possible - rain started again after three more overs - and when Andrew Strauss fell the umpires decided that play was no longer possible, and a no-result was declared.\n\nThe last game of the round robin of the NatWest Series was, as expected, won by the Australians. However, it summed up the improvement Bangladesh had made over the tour of England. In the first international, they were rolled over meekly by a no-balling, rusty English side - twice. In the last, Brett Lee and Jason Gillespie put the pressure on early, and with the aid of Shane Watson had them on the reels with 75 for 5. Yet, Bangladesh recovered to post 250 for 8, and were theoretically in with a chance for most of the game. Yet, they started very, very shakily. Javed Omar was dropped by Matthew Hayden in the third over, only to be out to Jason Gillespie in the next for an eight-ball duck - a disappointing end to a fine series for the Bangladeshi. Brett Lee had both Tushar Imran and Mohammad Ashraful beaten with full deliveries, Bangladesh were 19 for three wickets down - an all too familiar position.\n\nA quickfire 30 from captain Habibul Bashar helped to take away some of the jitters, as Bashar took 16 runs off a Brett Lee over, but a bouncer from Shane Watson wasn't successfully evaded, and Adam Gilchrist could take the catch. Aftab Ahmed had to settle for 7, and it was down to the last two recognised batsmen - Shahriar Nafees, who had quietly moved his way to 25 not out, and wicketkeeper Khaled Mashud. However, the two put on a nigh-on faultless partnership of 94, taking their time to consolidate. Shahriar eventually departed for 75, edging a short ball from Shane Watson to the wicket-keeper - the usual method of dismissal. However, their partnership had given Bangladesh hope, and Mohammad Rafique took advantage with a six off Watson. Despite two more wickets falling - Rafique and Khaled Mahmud (caught at mid-on on the last ball) - Bangladesh had recovered to 250 for 8, which could potentially be tricky to chase.\n\nMashrafe Mortaza was hit around for twelve in the first over, however, and the momentum swung towards Australia. Mortaza hit back by inducing an outside edge from Matthew Hayden to wicketkeeper Mashud for 1, and four balls later a ball from Mortaza hit captain Ricky Ponting on the pads - but too high to be given out. Gilchrist and Ponting paired up well, however, even though Gilchrist rode his luck with a few drives in the air, but in the 10th over he gave a somewhat dubious catch to slip Khaled Mahmud, and was gone for 45 - all while rain threatened to damage the match. However, the weather gradually improved, along with Australia's chances - after 15 overs, they were 83 for three, having lost Damien Martyn for 9, but only needed slightly less than five an over. However, economical bowling and riskless batting from Australia saw Bangladesh in with a chance again. Ponting and Michael Clarke let the run rate go to more than six an over, but Khaled Mahmud's bowling at the death to Andrew Symonds left a bit to be desired, as Australia could take the necessary runs and win by eleven balls and six wickets to spare. A Bangladeshi – Shahriar Nafees – got the Man of the Match award, possibly for his effort to keep the match exciting after Bangladesh had crumbled to 75 for 5.\n\nThe final of the NatWest Series ended in an anticlimax for the visitors, but throughout it gave entertainment to the crowd - despite being a relatively low-scoring game. It didn't look to be low-scoring early on, though, as Adam Gilchrist and Matthew Hayden punished the England opening bowlers Darren Gough and Simon Jones to be 50 for 0 after 6.3 overs. Two balls later, Hayden went for one expansive stroke too many - driving to Ashley Giles at mid-off for 17. England captain Michael Vaughan brought his change bowlers on, first Andrew Flintoff for Jones (who had been taken for 29 runs in his first three overs) and then the big man from Ashington, Steve Harmison.\n\nThose changes turned the match on its head. Instead of the Australian batsmen taking easy runs off the English bowlers, the English bowlers now tied down the batting, getting rewards in the form of wickets. Gilchrist gave a catch to Kevin Pietersen at short leg for 27, and when Harmison was brought on a couple of overs later, he immediately got a wicket - of Ricky Ponting for 7, and Australia were 71 for 3 after 12.1 overs. Damien Martyn and Andrew Symonds decided to retreat into their shell, as the English bowling turned from difficult to nigh-on unhittable, Flintoff getting a touch on the off-stump of Symonds, but the bail didn't fall off, so he survived. However, the pair could only add 19 from 35 deliveries, before Harmison had Martyn caught behind with a ball that moved away from the batsman, off the waiting edge and into Geraint Jones' gloves.\n\nFollowing the dismissal of Martyn, Vaughan brought back Jones - realising that Australia were reluctant to hit runs and thus allowing Jones to get through his overs without causing as much damage as he did early on. In fact, he and Harmison were part of a remarkable streak - they served up 28 successive dot-balls to Symonds and Michael Clarke (who bowed under to the pressure and was hit on the pad, out lbw for a 19-ball two). However, Michael Hussey - facing his first ball at 93 for 5 after 25 overs - took control of Jones, and when Harmison was taken off, Australia were let off the hook.\n\nSymonds and Hussey batted out 15 overs, but Symonds struggled to hit runs and eventually smashed a drive to Andrew Strauss, who took a grateful catch, thus ending Symonds' innings for 29 - off 71 balls, a good innings in Test cricket but in ODI cricket virtually useless. Michael Vaughan then used a strange bowling change, keeping spinner Ashley Giles on for an over more than required and thus borrowing one from Andrew Flintoff who wasn't allowed to bowl a full ten. In the event, it mattered little. Flintoff had ample time to rip out Brett Lee and Jason Gillespie, and, with Harmison taking care of Brad Hogg and Glenn McGrath committing batting suicide with a shot not exactly out of the textbook, Australia were all out for 196 - and England were comfortably in the drivers' seat.\n\nThat was before they got in to bat, however. England survived the first three overs, bowled by McGrath and Lee, without loss. From then on, however, the English lost wickets by the bucketful. England went from 11 for 0 to 19 for 4 in the space of four overs, as the bowlers put the pressure on immediately, and their entire top-order came and went for single-figure scores. Paul Collingwood and Andrew Flintoff survived for a couple more overs, before Flintoff edged McGrath to slip - the score 33 for 5, and England should see themselves lucky to bat out 50 overs - or even score 100 runs. Collingwood and Geraint Jones decided to wait, giving McGrath maiden overs (as he finished his first bowling spell with figures of 7-4-9-3), and despite the batsmen being rapped on the pads, they survived, even taking the occasional six off Jason Gillespie.\n\nAfter 25 overs, England were 65 for 5, but the Australian spinners didn't get too much out of the track. Dot-balls flourished, but the partnership kept in there, and a second six - from Jones off Hogg - showed their intent. After thirty-five overs, England were 113 for 5, and required a run a ball, with four overs of Lee and three of McGrath still to negotiate. However, England kept pushing, never letting the run-rate get above 7. Skipper Ponting showed some desperation when he brought Michael Hussey on with nine overs to spare, knowing that the spinners couldn't keep it tight, but got his reward in Hussey's second over when Collingwood was run out for 53 - off 116 balls.\n\nThen Geraint Jones smacked two fours off Hussey to end the over, meaning that England needed 39 off 36 balls. Five balls later, a miscued sweep off Hogg hit Geraint Jones on the pads - gone for 71 - and England only had three wickets to spare. Two more balls were delivered before that tally was cut down to two - Hussey bowled Simon Jones for a two-ball one, so with Gough and Giles in, England needed 35 off 29 balls. Despite taking the runs off Hussey, Brett Lee's 47th over only yielded a single, as his variations of length turned out to be just the thing. However, Ponting now needed another over from either Hussey, Hogg or Symonds - deciding to use Hussey, he was punished, as Giles hit twos to both the off and leg side, and a wide from Hussey resulting in a nine-run over. Lee then came back on, and with his short ball had Giles playing a definitely unorthodox stroke - a sliced edge over Gilchrist's head for four.\n\nSingles were taken to end the over, but McGrath was to bowl the last over of the game, with England still needing ten to win. Things got easier for England when McGrath overstepped with the first ball of the over, Gough making contact and running the single to cut the target by two - the no-ball for overstepping and the run single - and the no-ball meant McGrath still had to bowl six balls in the over. Giles then played and missed, before hitting a single, and then Gough drove the two next balls to cover for two. Suddenly, England only needed three off two - and were, incredibly, in a winning position again. But Gough's next shot was right back to McGrath, who took it up well and tossed it at the stumps, running out Gough and meaning that McGrath would bowl to Ashley Giles - and England still required three to win. The ball hit Giles' pads, ran away down the off side, and Giles and Harmison ran all they could to scamper two leg-byes - and tie the game.\n\n[[England cricket team|England]] were lucky to win the [[toss (cricket)|toss]] and get a chance to bowl under cloudy skies at [[Headingley Cricket Ground|Headingley]], as they beat [[Australia national cricket team|Australia]] by nine wickets to take their second victory in five [[One Day International|ODIs]] so far. Putting Australia in to bat, they didn't get immediate reward - as especially [[Darren Gough]] was smashed about by [[Adam Gilchrist]], but the run rate at least stayed around four an over. And with [[Steve Harmison]] and [[Andrew Flintoff]] removing the openers in successive overs, things looked brighter for the English. [[Ricky Ponting]] and [[Damien Martyn]] added 39 for the next wicket, but in 11 overs, all while the English captain [[Michael Vaughan]] set attacking fields according to the new [[Powerplay (cricket)|power play]] rules.\n\nEngland [[all-rounder]] [[Paul Collingwood]] came on as third-change bowler, and used the helpful conditions to incite Ponting's demise, as [[Kevin Pietersen]] held a catch to dismiss the Australian captain for 14, and Collingwood continued to end with four wickets for 34 runs, as Australia slumped from 107 for 2 to 159 for 6 - all wickets courtesy of Collingwood. However, [[Michael Hussey]] showed his skills from number seven yet again, as he made a 52-ball 46 - while the ball was still moving around due to the cloud cover - and lifted Australia to 219 for 7.\n\nThe English reply was initially jittery. The pace of [[Brett Lee]] and accuracy of [[Glenn McGrath]] shook the English opening batsmen [[Marcus Trescothick]] and [[Andrew Strauss]]. Trescothick, for example, was caught off a [[no-ball]] from Lee, but survived, as the openers lasted nearly 25 overs - before Strauss was [[Caught (cricket)|caught]] behind off [[Brad Hogg]] for 41. By that time, however, the sun had come out, the ball didn't [[swing bowling|swing]] much in the air, and as Lee kept on bowling no-balls - seven in total - things simply wouldn't work out for Australia. Trescothick used 132 balls to bring up his century, skipper Michael Vaughan made a healthy contribution with 59 [[not out]], and England brought up the winning total with four overs to spare.\n\n[[Ricky Ponting]], [[Australia national cricket team|Australia's]] captain, had so far had a difficult series against the [[England cricket team|English]]. In five innings this summer, his highest score was 34, in the no-result at [[Edgbaston Cricket Ground|Edgbaston]], and his average was a meagre 16.40. However, on a Lord's track that suited the batsmen, he was back into his old magnificent form, guiding Australia back on track to victory, and levelling the NatWest Challenge.\n\nIt started well for Australia, too. Including Michael Kasprowicz in the squad and gambling on winning the toss and subbing one of their bowlers off, they won it - and Kasprowicz got immediate reward. After the English openers had survived the opening overs of McGrath and Lee to be 25 for 0 after eight overs, Kasprowicz was brought on, and Strauss chopped an inside edge onto his own stumps. Nine balls and three runs later, captain Michael Vaughan was hit on the pads by an inswinging delivery from Glenn McGrath and was out for 1. Marcus Trescothick and Kevin Pietersen soon followed to the pavilion, and England were - yet again - staring down the barrel at 45 for 4.\n\nHowever, England weren't undone that easily. Waiting for Jason Gillespie, who had been conceding many runs all series, Andrew Flintoff and Paul Collingwood paired up for a calm 103 in a little over 20 overs, before Collingwood became Brett Lee's second victim of the day, luring Collingwood to attempt a cut shot off a fast, short ball and edging to keeper Adam Gilchrist. England's resistance didn't end, however, and despite Lee ripping out wickets - ending with five for 41 - the lower-order combined, eking out 30 from the last 21 balls to lift England to a somewhat defensible total of 223 for 8.\n\nAnd, when Andrew Flintoff was brought on as the fourth bowler to be used in six overs, and removed Gilchrist with his second ball of the day, things looked hopeful for England, but that was as good as it ever got. Ricky Ponting smashed 14 fours and a six on his way to 111, making a century off 105 balls, Michael Vaughan was forced to wait with the power play overs, Simon Katich, Damien Martyn and Andrew Symonds played well-paced innings, and England found themselves unable to contain the Australians. The end was always in sight, eventually coming with 34 balls remaining, Darren Gough bowling a no-ball - his third of the day - to gift the game to Australia. It was symptomatic of Gough's poor series, and indeed, he had Gilchrist bowled off a no-ball in the very first over. His bowling analysis for the game read 6.2-0-43-1.\n\nThis match was eerily similar to the one two days earlier - except that Jason Gillespie actually got rewards with the ball, and the batsman to play himself into form was Adam Gilchrist - however, both England and Australia picked batsmen as their supersubs, just like on the 10th of July. Australia won the toss, chose to field to gain an extra batsman, and had England on the rack.\n\nThe game was won in the first few overs. The pitch, as Surrey and Hampshire showed in a game played three days later, had a par score well in excess of 300. However, Glenn McGrath's first four overs were maidens, and his fifth over only failed to be because Jason Gillespie dropped a skier, much to the amusement of the crowd. With Brett Lee bowling well and picking up the early wicket of Marcus Trescothick for a duck, England were well behind on the run rate from the start.\n\nThey never recovered. Despite another skier being dropped, this time by Adam Gilchrist, and the crowd enjoying Gillespie dropping more catches whilst practising in the field, Australia's dominance and fine fielding on the ground saw more England wickets fall. In 27.5 overs, they only mustered 93 runs - for the loss of six wickets, with Michael Vaughan, Andrew Strauss, Andrew Flintoff, Paul Collingwood and Geraint Jones all out. A desperate situation meant England had to use their substitute, putting on Vikram Solanki for bowler Simon Jones - and Solanki helped save England to some respectability, along with Kevin Pietersen. Solanki made an unbeaten 53 and Pietersen 74 as England posted 228 for 7.\n\nOn a flat, unresponsive pitch, England's bowlers (now without the subbed-off Jones) were helpless. Gilchrist smashed an 81-ball ton, with an array of shots all around the ground, and eventually ended on 121 not out. Three of the English bowlers conceded more than six an over - Steve Harmison, with 81 runs off 9.5 overs, Darren Gough, with 37 off four, and Ashley Giles with 64 off ten. The two wickets the English got - Matthew Hayden caught behind for 31 and Ricky Ponting stumped for 44 - were largely pointless.\n\nIn all, it was a comprehensive victory for Australia, probably one of their easiest on the entire tour - possibly excluding the 19-over demolition of Bangladesh in game six of the group stage, with the biggest excitement being when the officials and players were presented to His Royal Highness the Duke of Edinburgh in the break. The Duke was at the ground to officially open the new OCS stand at the Oval. He took the opportunity to lead the tributes to umpire David Shepherd, on his retirement from international umpiring. Former British prime minister Sir John Major and current Australian prime minister John Howard also sent tributes to Shepherd.\n"}
{"id": "2058679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2058679", "title": "Ballygar", "text": "Ballygar\n\nBallygar () is a town in County Galway, Ireland. It is 16 km from Roscommon town.\n\nThe name \"Ballygar\", historically \"Beallagarr\", comes from . The town has been a meeting point of the McDermott clan and trading centre throughout the centuries, and was recorded as a townland and farm as far back as 1585.\n\nAlthough the townland and farm are recorded as far back as 1585, it was not until the 1820s that it became a centre of population. On 6 August 1585 the Chieftains and Landowners of Galway and Roscommon were summoned to a meeting with the Lord Deputy, Sir John Perrot, in Galway City. The object of the meeting was to get the landowners and chieftains to surrender their lands to Elizabeth I and then receive them back from the Crown at a rent of one penny an acre. The landowners accepted the terms, and one of the signatories to that document of surrender was Francis Shane, gent, of Ballygar, and possibly the proprietor of Ballygar Castle at the time.\n\nThe next mention of Ballygar is in the book of Survey Distribution; this shows out the Earl of St Albans as being the beneficial owner of the land of Bealagara in Killeroran Parish in 1641. He was dispossessed of this land and Ballygar Castle. It was subsequently granted to the Earl of Clanricarde. A garrison was stationed in Ballygar Castle during the rebellion of the 1640s. Ballygar Castle seems to have disappeared from the scene in the early 18th century. A document, dated 1704, shows the Clanricarde family as having leased Ballygar Farm plus parts of Drinaun and Killeroran, in all, to Edward Donnellan of Streamstown, Co Westmeath, for two lives i.e. sixty two years at a rent of two shillings per acre per year. In 1820, a toll market was established near the main entrance to Castle Kelly by Denis Henry Kelly who owned of the surrounding countryside.\n\nThe market was a success from the beginning and around this the thriving market the town of Ballygar grew. By 1840 Ballygar market was said to be second only to Athlone market in volume of trade. According to the census of 1841, there was a population of 5,300 living on the Kelly estate. As the market grew, so did the demand for shops and dwellings. Denis had these built and leased them to suitable tenants. Twenty years after its foundation Ballygar had 52 houses and a population of 363. It is not known whether Denis was a teetotaller or not, but there were only two public houses in Ballygar in 1839. One of these was located near J. Curley's shop, the other was situated where T. Hanley's drapery shop is now. The town was planned in an orderly fashion, wide main street, market square, a diamond at the main entrance to his estate and two back streets to give access to the rear of all premises.\n\nDenis believed in keeping his town tidy, and, to this end, he visited every house in town on the first day of the month. If the house or shop was being kept clean and tidy he issued the tenant with a cleanliness ticket, and at the end of the year the tenant with the most tickets received a prize of £1.10s; the next prize was 10s.6d. All the tenants who had received tickets were invited to have dinner with him in Castle Kelly\n\nAnother innovation introduced to Ballygar in 1835 was the Reproductive Loan Fund. This was a non-profit-making organisation, and tenants had access to the fund in times of hardship. It was run on much the same lines as the Credit Union. In 1844, £1,000 of the loan fund was in circulation in the locality. The loan office was situated on the Main Street where Clarke's Hardware is now.\n\nThe Great Famine, 1845–1850, with all its hardships, hunger and deprivation brought a halt to the rapid development of the town, but not for long. Griffith's Valuation 1855 shows Ballygar as having 67 houses, Police Barracks, a Parochial School House, Dispensary and Protestant Church. The late 1850s saw further building development in the town and locality. A new Parochial School was built in the market square, a new Catholic Church a year later. About this time also the market house, a six-storey building of cut stone was erected on the market square. By the end of the decade a 93-foot stone tower was erected in Killeroran Graveyard, the Courthouse was built, also the Grand Bridge, a magnificent cut-stone structure which spans the river that flows through Castle Kelly. The construction of the bridge alone is said to have cost £1,000 in 1859.\n\nThe building programme mustn't have been as rewarding as Denis Kelly expected, for in 1863 we find the entire Kelly estate being offered for sale by the courts, under the Encumbered Estates Act. Denis retired to Araghty Grange, a small estate he owned near Athleague. He died in 1877 and is buried in the old Church in Killeroran. The Kelly estate, complete with Castle and town, was bought by Christopher Neville Bagott for £105,000.\n\nThe Bagott family seemed to have played a very passive role in the life of the area, other than to collect rents due. The owner, Christopher, spent very little time on the estate, and left the management to his two brothers, Charlie and John. Christopher himself bought a house in a fashionable part of London, and entertained fairly lavishly. Through these parties he came to know a young society lady of great charm and beauty by the name of Alice Verner. Within a short time they were married – believed to be in 1874. In due course a son was born to them. Mrs Christopher Bagott continued to have a high life and relations between herself and her husband soon became strained. They returned to Castlekelly in 1876, and some time later he banished her and their young son from his home. He now drew up a will leaving his entire estate to his brother John Bagott. His health failed rapidly and he died in May 1877. Mrs Bagott contested the last will made by her husband, and a much-publicised trial ensued at the Probate Court in Dublin. The trial lasted for a month, and the courtfound in favour of Mrs Bagott and her son. The Court administered the estate on their behalf until the young heir came of age. The entire estate was offered for sale in 1903. The Land Commission was the purchaser, and later the Forestry Commission acquired Castlekelly and the surrounding it.\n\nThe population structure of Ballygar Parish (Killeroran and Killian) has been like most other parts of rural Ireland being in steady decline, since the Great Famine of 1845. The Great Famine or An Gorta Mór as it has become known, of 1845 had a devastating effect on Ireland, and Ballygar didn't escape the horror that resulted from the failure of the main food crop, the potato, throughout the years of 1845 to 1849. Few details survive of An Gorta Mór even though it is of relatively recent origin, one hundred and sixty years ago. For it would seem that the details were too horrific and painful for the local people to recall even in local folklore stories. The story of how hundreds of local people, mostly peasant rural dwellers, died of starvation, remain unrecorded. Probably the greatest tragedy of all surrounding An Gorta Mór was the sale by farming communities of large amounts of eggs and animals in order to pay rent to their local landlord, while they themselves, and their neighbours, were dying of starvation.\n\nThe Gorta Mór for the first time ever forced Ballygar people to think about large-scale emigration. Throughout the years 1845 to 1850, local farming communities started to emigrate en masse. It would seem that initially they left not just in ones and twos, but in large groups, mainly for America and Australia. It now seems that it must have been on a par with some of the emigration we see from famine torn-regions in Africa during the present time.\n\nIn a well researched piece on Trihill National School, Norma Hoilean records how the residents of one townland Bohill all emigrated on the same day. It must have been a horrific day in Bohill – with the entire community of old and young taking with them their meagre belongings and heading off to locate one of the coffin ships in Cobh or Galway. Unfortunately nobody has any idea of whatever happened to them, but it can only be assumed that some of them at least reached \"the promised land\". As an illustration of this, it is recorded that thirteen entire families from Cork Unitarian Church left Cork on the same boat to Australia in 1847.\n\nThe exodus from the area to the U.S. continued throughout the latter part of the 19th century and indeed for much of the first part of the twentieth. It was this exodus of people from Ballygar, which resulted in virtually every family in the parish of today having a set of relatives in some part of America.\n\nA feature of the Gorta Mór was that few people were prepared to talk about it afterwards, and few stories survive even in local folklore about the event. It would seem that the death of families or family members from starvation was associated with poverty that relatives refused to talk about afterwards. In a field owned by Martin \"Prince\" Kelly in the village of Ballinacor, there are five simple graves adjacent to a sandpit – one of the graves has a number of simple field stones surrounding it. It seems likely that famine victims were buried here without ceremony and possibly without a priest being present.\n\nPractically no expansion took place in Ballygar town from 1860 to 1891. The census of 1891 shows it as having 69 houses and a population of 289. Then for some reason the first decade of this century saw a great increase in the population of the town, from 289 to 403, an increase of about 35%. Eleven houses were built in the town in that decade.\n\nThe village is the home of a number of businesses, shops, grocers, and butchers. One of these shops, in existence for many generations, is now the property of the Kilgarriff family. The shop was a general store and meeting place in the village.\n\nMany families can be traced back to have been living in the area as far back as 1749 (as far back as reliable records go). These families include the Lohan, Martin, Egan, Finneran, Flynn, Galvin, Keane, Mulrey, Mulvey,Geraghty, Healy, Nolan, Kelly, Fischer, Devine, Doyle, Brannelly and Hannon families.\n\nIn 2003 the village welcomed the Afghanistan Special Olympics team whilst they competed in the 2003 Special Olympics World Summer Games.\n\nBallygar Carnival has been an annual event since 1945. Entertainment events and the carnival include dancing, discos, a fun fair, street entertainment, fancy dress, country fair, pig races, and sports tournaments.\n\nTownlands in Ballygar include Mucanagh (the ford of the pigs) on the Galway side of the River Suck.\n\nKnown for its coarse fishing and wildlife hunting, the local River Suck is the home to bream, perch and pike fishing while the faster moving Shiven is regarded for wild trout.\n\nMucanagh is liable to flooding though this is disregarded by many locals who use tractors or four-wheel drives into or out of the townland. The dredging of the Suck in the 1970s never had the anticipated results.\n\nEstablished in 1977, Murray Timber Products Limited has grown to become one of the largest sawmills in Ireland.\n\nThe public library in Ballygar is open every Tuesday and Saturday morning and on Fridays in the afternoon. It provides a reference and local studies collection with information on the heritage and history of the area.\n\n"}
{"id": "2058684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2058684", "title": "Polje", "text": "Polje\n\nA polje (, ), also karst polje or karst field, is a large flat plain found in karstic geological regions of the world, with areas usually 5 to 400 km². The name derives from the Slavic languages and literally means 'field', whereas in English \"polje\" specifically refers to a karst plain or karst field.\n\nA polje, in geological terminology, is a large, flat-floored depression within karst limestone, whose long axis develops in parallel with major structural trends and can become several miles (tens of kilometers) long. Superficial deposits tend to accumulate along the floor. Drainage may be either by surface watercourses (as an \"open polje\") or by swallow holes (as a \"closed polje\") or ponors. Usually, the ponors cannot transmit entire flood flows, so many poljes become wet-season lakes. The structure of some poljes is related to the geological structure, but others are purely the result of lateral dissolution and planation. The development of poljes is fostered by any blockage in the karst drainage.\n\nA polje or karst polje covers the flatbottomed lands of closed basins which may extend over large areas, up to 1,000 km². The flat floor of a polje may consist of bare limestone, of a nonsoluble formation (as with rolling topography), or of soil. A polje typically shows complex hydrogeological characteristics such as exsurgences, estavelles, swallow holes, and lost rivers. In colloquial use, the term \"polje\" designates flat-bottomed lands which are overgrown or are under cultivation. The Dinaric Karst has many poljes. \n\nThey are mostly distributed in subtropical and tropical latitudes but some also appear in temperate or, rarely, boreal regions. Usually covered with thick sediments, called \"terra rossa\", they are used extensively for agricultural purposes.\n\nSome \"poljes\" of the Dinaric Alps are inundated during the rainy winters and spring seasons as masses of water called \"izvor\" or \"vrelo\" appears at the margins. The water disappears through shafts called \"ponor\".\n\nProminent karst poljes are Livanjsko polje (about 60km long and 7km wide), Glamočko Polje, Grahovsko Polje, Drvarsko Polje, Duvanjsko Polje, Kupreška Visoravan \"(Kupres Highlands)\", Popovo Polje, Dabarsko Polje, Nevesinjsko Polje and Gatačko Polje in Bosnia and Herzegovina; Logatec, Planina, and Cerknica Polje in Slovenia; Grahovsko Polje and Nikšićko Polje in Montenegro; Ličko Polje and Krbava in Lika, Croatia; Odorovsko polje the only karst polje in Serbia. \n\nYou can see Arjan polje in Fars province of Iran on Google Earth, located in 29° 38' 00\"N 51° 59' 00\"E.\n\nThe term is synonymous with \"interior valley\". The word itself can be found in a number of languages including: French, German, Greek, Italian, Spanish and Turkish (which uses \"polye\"). The word \"polje\" () itself is of Slavic origin (best known as the root for the country Poland - \"Polska\" from the Polish word \"pole\"). English borrowed \"polje\" from Slovene or Serbo-Croatian. The equivalent in neighbouring Macedonian and Bulgarian is \"pole\" (поле), and in Russian it is \"polye\" (полье).\n"}
{"id": "2058685", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2058685", "title": "Thomas theorem", "text": "Thomas theorem\n\nThe Thomas theorem is a theory of sociology which was formulated in 1928 by William Isaac Thomas and Dorothy Swaine Thomas (1899–1977) :\n\nIn other words, the interpretation of a situation causes the action. This interpretation is not objective. Actions are affected by subjective perceptions of situations. Whether there even is an objectively correct interpretation is not important for the purposes of helping guide individuals' behavior. \n\nThe Thomas theorem is not a theorem in the mathematical sense. \n\nIn 1923, W. I. Thomas stated more precisely that any definition of a situation would influence the present. In addition, after a series of definitions in which an individual is involved, such a definition would also \"gradually [influence] a whole life-policy and the personality of the individual himself\". Consequently, Thomas stressed societal problems such as intimacy, family, or education as fundamental to the role of the situation when detecting a social world \"in which subjective impressions can be projected on to life and thereby become real to projectors\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2058694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2058694", "title": "Barna", "text": "Barna\n\nBearna (anglicised as Barna) is a coastal village in Connemara, west of Galway city in County Galway, Ireland, on the R336 regional road. Once a satellite of Galway city, the village is now rapidly becoming one of its suburbs. Officially, the village is regarded as Irish speaking and is therefore a constituent part of the regions of Ireland that make up the Gaeltacht. However, because of its absorption into the city, it has recently become a mainly English-speaking village. Nonetheless, Irish is still the main language of its western and northern hinterland and the village has now effectively become the gateway to the largest Irish-speaking region in the country.\n\nTo try to control the major development which has been undertaken in recent years, a very strongly supported local action group has been set up (Pobal Bhearna). In 1976 a community development group called Comharchumann Bearna Teo was formed after five local men put up the purchase money for at Troscaigh Thiar to be used for community purposes and has succeeded in developing several recreational facilities.\n\nThere are 1,500 native Irish speakers in the Bearna ED. According to the 2011 census, 24% of Bearna's locals use Irish as a daily language.\n\nBearna is twinned with Esquibien, Brittany, France.\n\nAt the time of the 2011 Census, the total population in this settlement was 1,878, of which males numbered 920 and females were 958. The total housing stock was 772, of which vacant households numbered 98. With an approximate area of 1.89 km, this settlement has a 2011 population density of 994 persons per km.\n\nThe total population of the Bearna Electoral District (ED) designated as 27044 was 3,630, of which males numbered 1,804 and females were 1,826. The total housing stock was 1,363, of which vacant households numbered 142.\n\nSports clubs in the Bearna area include Bearna GAA, which fields gaelic football teams in men's and ladies' competitions. Other clubs in the locality are Galway Bay Rugby Club, Bearna/Na Forbacha hurling club and Bearna United soccer club. Cormac Folan of Freeport in Bearna represented Ireland in Rowing at the 2008 Summer Olympics. Bearna Golf Club, two miles north of the village, is a moorland 18-hole golf course.\n\nMost townlands are anglisations of the original Irish language names.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2058695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2058695", "title": "Tuberaria", "text": "Tuberaria\n\nTuberaria is a genus of about 12 species of annual or perennial plants in the rockrose family Cistaceae, native to western and southern Europe. They occur on dry, stony sites, often close to the sea.\n\nThe leaves are in a rosette at the base of the plant, and then in opposite pairs up the stem; they are simple oval, 2–5 cm long and 1–2 cm broad. The flowers are 2–5 cm diameter, with five petals, yellow with a red spot at the base of each petal, the red spot acting as a 'target' for pollinating insects.\n\n\"Tuberaria\" species are used as food plants by the larvae of some Lepidoptera species including the \"Coleophora\" case-bearers \"C. confluella\" (recorded on \"T. guttata\") and \"C. helianthemella\" (recorded on \"T. lignosa\").\n\nSpecies include:\n\n"}
{"id": "2058701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2058701", "title": "Bealadangan", "text": "Bealadangan\n\nBéal an Daingin or Béal a' Daingin (anglicized as Bealadangan) is a small Gaeltacht village in Connemara (Conamara), County Galway, Ireland. The primary spoken language is Irish, and all but a few of the elderly population also speak English. There is a pub, a post office and a primary school (Toureen) within a few miles of the village. \n\nLocal traditions include the continued cutting of turf (peat) for use in heating homes. Sean-nós singing is still performed locally. Raidió na Gaeltachta is the local Irish-language radio station and some local singers and musicians can be heard on the station.\n\nThe name of the village derives from the Irish \"béal an daingin\" meaning \"the mouth of the stronghold\".\n\nOther nearby villages are Leitir Móir and An Cheathrú Rua.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2058702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2058702", "title": "Minnedosa Lake", "text": "Minnedosa Lake\n\nMinnedosa Lake is a man-made lake in the Canadian province of Manitoba near Minnedosa, Manitoba. It was created between 1910 and 1912 to serve as a reservoir for a hydro-electric dam. Today it is a popular recreation site, for both boating and swimming. The lake is considered one of the best sites for competitive rowing in Canada and was the venue for the 1999 Pan American Games rowing events. The lake is fed by the Little Saskatchewan River.\n\nA dam was approved in December 1907 by the Government of Canada. After several delays, the dam was completed in 1912. Minnedosa was the second community in the Province of Manitoba to generate its own hydroelectric power. Initially privately owned, the generation plant was taken over by the Manitoba Power Commission in 1920. The dam provided power until 1933. The lake was used as a source of water for the town, for recreation, and for supplying the engines of the Canadian Pacific Railway. On May 4, 1948 the spillway of the dam failed due to erosion of structure, and the resulting flood damaged many homes and businesses in the town. The spillway was not repaired until 1950 by the Prairie Farm Rehabilitation Administration.\n"}
{"id": "2058704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2058704", "title": "Six Degrees: The Science of a Connected Age", "text": "Six Degrees: The Science of a Connected Age\n\nSix Degrees: The Science of a Connected Age (2004 in paperback, and 2003 in hardcover, ) is a popular science book by Duncan J. Watts covering the application of network theory to sociology.\n\nThe book covers Watts' own work on small-world networks, and continues on to cover scale-free networks, network searching, epidemics and network failures, social decision making, thresholds in networks, and innovation in large organizations and its lack.\n\nIn addition to covering the theoretical models and empirical case studies, the book also includes several stories about the character of the researchers who developed this science and their relationships with each other. \n\nThe case studies used include blackouts in the North American electricity distribution network, the relationships among members of corporate boards of directors, the distribution of wealth in societies, peer-to-peer file-sharing systems, computer viruses, economic bubbles, and the 1997 Aisin fire crisis at Toyota.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2058711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2058711", "title": "Carrowkeel", "text": "Carrowkeel\n\nCarrowkeel may refer to the following places in Ireland:\n"}
{"id": "2058714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2058714", "title": "Little Red-Haired Girl", "text": "Little Red-Haired Girl\n\nThe Little Red-Haired Girl is an unseen character in the \"Peanuts\" comic strip by Charles M. Schulz, who serves as the object of Charlie Brown's affection, and a symbol of unrequited love. The character was first mentioned in the strip on November 19, 1961.\n\nWhile never seen in the strip, she appears onscreen in several television specials, in which her name has been revealed as Heather Wold. Charlie Brown most often notices her while eating lunch outdoors, always failing to muster the courage to speak to her. She figures prominently in Valentine's Day strips, several of which focus on Charlie Brown's hope of getting a valentine from her. Charlie Brown typically attempts to give her a valentine but panics at the last minute.\n\nCharlie Brown first catches sight of her in the November 19, 1961 strip, saying he would \"give anything in the world if that little girl with the red hair would come over and sit with me.\" In July 1969, a story arc ran depicting the Little Red-Haired Girl moving away. Charlie Brown despaired that he would never see her again. He saw her from a distance later that year while skiing.\n\nPeppermint Patty and Marcie encountered her at summer camp a few years later in 1972, where it is stated that she is aware of Charlie Brown (despite his belief that she does not know he exists) and is talking about him to the other girls at camp, although what she says of him and how she feels about him are not stated. Eventually, the Little Red-Haired Girl moved back to Charlie Brown's neighborhood, with no further mention of her ever having been away.\n\nThe 1967 \"Peanuts\" animated TV special \"You're in Love, Charlie Brown\" revolved entirely around Charlie Brown's obsession with the Little Red-Haired Girl. After several failed attempts at making conversation with her on the last two days of school, she stuffs a note into Charlie Brown's hands as students rush past him to board the school bus. Thinking he has ruined his final chance at meeting her, he reads the letter, which affectionately states, \"I like you, Charlie Brown. Signed, the Little Red-Haired Girl.\" Ecstatic, Charlie Brown skips his way home, realizing he has triumphed against what he considers all odds. Throughout the entirety of \"You're in Love, Charlie Brown\", the Little Red-Haired Girl is not seen once.\n\nThe Little Red-Haired Girl returned in the 1977 special \"It's Your First Kiss, Charlie Brown\", making her first ever onscreen appearance. Linus tells Charlie Brown that her name is \"Heather\", and that she is the Homecoming Queen. Charlie Brown becomes a wreck, trying desperately to impress her once he learns that he has been chosen to escort her to the dance after the football game. After spending nearly the entire duration of the special stressing about meeting her, he eventually musters up the courage to give her a kiss. Heather appeared onscreen again in the 1985 special \"Happy New Year, Charlie Brown!\" She did not have a speaking role in either of the aforementioned specials.\n\nSchulz did not consider these animated appearances to be canonical, although he wrote the screenplay himself. The Little Red-Haired Girl was once seen in the comics in silhouette on May 25, 1998, dancing with Snoopy. When the storyline was adapted as part of the 2002 special \"A Charlie Brown Valentine\", she was seen unshadowed but had a different design than suggested by the silhouette, and completely different from her two previous appearances in \"It's Your First Kiss, Charlie Brown\" and \"Happy New Year, Charlie Brown!\" A third animated version of the Little Red-Haired Girl is briefly seen in the introduction sequence used in the second season of \"The Charlie Brown and Snoopy Show\", in which she again looks different from her other appearances. Another appearance includes the 1988 special \"Snoopy!!! The Musical\" (albeit a brief cameo). She also appears in \"A Charlie Brown Valentine\". In \"The Peanuts Movie\", she has a much different design based on the earlier mentioned silhouette, and on the test score sheet, it is revealed her name is Heather Wold, after her name in the specials and the last name of Donna Wold, the real-life inspiration behind the character. The film marked the first time the Little Red-Haired Girl spoke in all Peanuts-related media, with Charlie Brown finally succeeding in talking to her. She is voiced by Francesca Capaldi who also voiced Frieda.\n\nA former co-worker, Donna Mae Wold (born Donna Mae Johnson January 3, 1929 in Minneapolis, Minnesota, died August 8, 2016 in Richfield, Minnesota), was Schulz's inspiration for the character. A 1947 high school graduate, Johnson was working in the accounting department of the Art Instruction, Inc., a correspondence school where Schulz worked. Johnson and Schulz eventually became romantically involved and dated for three years, but in 1950 when Schulz proposed to her, she turned him down, saying she was already engaged. Schulz was devastated, but he and Donna remained friends for the rest of his life. Said Schulz of the relationship, \"I can think of no more emotionally damaging loss than to be turned down by someone whom you love very much. A person who not only turns you down, but almost immediately will marry the victor. What a bitter blow that is.\"\n\nOnly one known Schulz drawing (aside from the aforementioned silhouette) of the little red-haired girl exists. It was drawn in 1950, long before she was mentioned in \"Peanuts\". The girl in the drawing strongly resembles Patty (not to be confused with the later character Peppermint Patty), a character who was prominent in the early days of the strip. A book containing the sketch also has a photo of Johnson with Schulz. \"I'd like to see Charlie Brown kick that football, and if he gets the little red-haired girl, that's fine with me,\" Donna said around the time Schulz announced his retirement in 1999. On Valentine's Day 2011, the Schulz Museum gave free admission to all redheaded girls and boys in honor of the Little Red-Haired Girl.\n\n"}
{"id": "2058718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2058718", "title": "Clarinbridge", "text": "Clarinbridge\n\nClarinbridge () is a small village, approximately 15 minutes drive south of Galway, Ireland in the Diocese of Kilmacduagh. It is on the mouth of the Clarin River at the end of Dunbulcaun Bay, which is the easternmost part of Galway Bay.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2058726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2058726", "title": "Nalge Nunc International", "text": "Nalge Nunc International\n\nNalge Nunc International is a distributor and manufacturer of plastic laboratory containers that has diversified into the field of containers for outdoor sports and packaging materials.\n\nA subsidiary of Thermo Fisher Scientific, Nalge Nunc International was formed in 1995 by the merger of Nunc A/S of Denmark, founded in 1953, with Nalge Company, which was founded in 1949 in Rochester, New York.\n\nNalgene is Nalge Nunc's primary plastics product line and includes the Nalgene Outdoor, Nalgene Laboratory and Nalgene Packaging product lines.\n\nThe original Nalgene line included such items as jars, bottles, test tubes, graduated cylinders, and Petri dishes helpful to laboratory workers, chemists, and biologists because they were shatterproof and lighter than glass. The properties of the respective plastics make them suitable for work with many materials, in various temperature ranges.\n"}
{"id": "2058727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2058727", "title": "Divorce Act (Canada)", "text": "Divorce Act (Canada)\n\nThe Divorce Act () is the federal Act that governs divorce in Canada. The Constitution of Canada gives the federal Parliament exclusive jurisdiction to regulate the law of marriage and divorce.\n\nThere was no uniform federal divorce law in Canada until 1968. Instead, there was a patch-work of divorce laws in the different provinces, depending on the laws in force in each province at the time it joined Confederation:\n\n\nOntario and Quebec residents could attempt to obtain a divorce in the United States, but the validity of such decrees could be subject to review in the Canadian courts on the issue of domicile. In 1885, the Supreme Court of Canada ruled that a New York divorce was valid, even though the husband was living in Montreal, as \"the burden was on the husband of showing that he had actually changed his domicile \"animo et de facto\"\". The consequences where a divorce was not recognized (e.g., it was obtained in a divorce mill, such as Reno, Nevada once was) and where one of the parties had already remarried proved to be awkward in certain cases.\n\nThe UK Act provided that a husband could sue on grounds of adultery, but a wife would have to allege adultery together with other grounds. In 1925, Parliament provided that a wife could sue on grounds of simple adultery.\n\nIn 1930, Parliament extended relief to deserted wives, by providing that, in the provinces where divorce was available, they could pursue proceedings on the grounds of desertion, so long as there had been separation from the husband for at least two years. In 1963, provision was made for the Senate of Canada to be able to dispose of parliamentary divorce petitions by way of resolution instead of by a private Act.\n\nIn 1968, Parliament passed its first \"Divorce Act\", which established a uniform divorce law across Canada. In addition to bringing about uniformity, the 1968 \"Act\":\n\nIn 1986, Parliament replaced the \"Act\", which simplified the law of divorce further. It brought forth several significant changes:\n\nWhile divorce is a civil matter in Canadian law, lobbying from Jewish women's groups such as the Canadian Coalition of Jewish Women for the Gett served to highlight the problem of \"agunah\" in Canada, and the connected problem of obtaining a \"get\" in the Jewish rabbinical courts. The \"Act\" was amended in 1990 to provide that:\n\nThere are still certain complications arising from the application of this provision. In one Quebec case, the Supreme Court of Canada ruled that an agreement by divorcing parties, providing that the ex-husband would proceed forthwith to obtain a \"get\", provided grounds for the ex-wife being able to obtain damages as a result of him reneging on it.\n\nDuring the period 2001–2005, same-sex marriage began to be available as a result a series of court cases in almost all provincial and territorial courts, which held that same-sex marriage was required by Section 15 of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms. In 2004, the Supreme Court of Canada held in the \"Reference re Same-Sex Marriage\" that such marriages were within the exclusive legislative authority of the Parliament of Canada, but declined to address the s.15 argument.\n\nIn 2005, Parliament passed the \"Civil Marriage Act\", which made same-sex marriage the law throughout Canada, and also amended the \"Divorce Act\" to change its corresponding meaning of \"spouse\" to mean \"either of two persons who are married to each other.\"\n\nLater Canadian and foreign court proceedings revealed complications arising from the application of private international law, so that, while same-sex marriages solemnized in Canada may be legal when its jurisdiction, they must also be valid according to the rules of domicile that apply to the celebrants. As well, the \"Divorce Act\"'s one-year residence requirement resulted in Canadian divorces not being able to be granted to spouses who are both non-resident. The \"CMA\" was amended in 2013 to provide for a separate divorce process to be available, outside the \"Divorce Act\", to nonresident spouses in the province where the marriage took place, and such divorces have immediate effect.\n\n"}
{"id": "2058731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2058731", "title": "Partition (law)", "text": "Partition (law)\n\nA partition is a term used in the law of real property to describe an act, by a court order or otherwise, to divide up a concurrent estate into separate portions representing the proportionate interests of the owners of property. It is sometimes described as a forced sale. Under the common law, any owner of property who owns an undivided concurrent interest in land can seek such a division. In some cases, the parties agree to a specific division of the land; if they are unable to do so, the court will determine an appropriate division. A sole owner, or several owners, of a piece of land may partition their land by entering a deed poll (sometimes referred to as \"carving out\").\n\nForced sales generally occur because owners of property are unable to agree upon certain aspects of the ownership. The owners may disagree on how to use the property, the amount of money to invest into the property, on their right to occupy and use the whole of the property. If the parties cannot come to an agreement, the case moves to court through a petition to partition action. As the number of cohabitants increases in the United States, the petition to partition action has become more common as a remedy to divide real and personal property.\n\nProperty may be owned by more than one person either as joint tenants, tenants in common, and in some states tenants by the entirety. The choice of which tenancy to enter into is made by the parties at the time of purchase. With each type of tenancy, each owner has the right to occupy the whole. That means that owners are not allowed to designate certain rooms as their own, but each element of the property is enjoyed fully by all parties.\n\nThere are three kinds of partition which can be awarded by court: \"partition in kind\", \"partition by allotment\", and \"partition by sale\".\n\nA provision in a deed completely prohibiting partition will not be given effect, but courts will enforce a provision that temporarily restricts partition, as long as the restriction is reasonable.\n\nThe Ontario Partition Act, R.S.O. 1990, c. P.4, states:\n\nFlorida provides for partition actions by statute, Chapter 64, which basically provides that any co-owner of real estate may seek partition. In Florida, there are basically no defenses to a partition action, other than if the parties have agreed not to partition the real estate.\n\nIn D’Arcy v. Buckley, 71 Bucks Co. L. Rep. 167 (1997), two people purchased property as joint tenants with right of survivorship. The plaintiff contributed five times more than the defendant toward the purchase price. In a partition action, the plaintiff sought credit for the full amount of his superior contributions. The Court held that, in the absence of fraud, the working of the deed operated to convey a one-half interest to each of the two joint tenants. The decision relies the authorities of Masgai v. Masgai, 460 Pa. 453, 333 A.2d 861 (1975), and DeLoatch v. Murphy, 369 Pa. Super. 255, 535 A.2d 146 (1987). The plaintiff argued, to no avail, that he did not intend to make a lifetime gift to defendant.\n\nPartition in kind is favored, Cal. Civ. Proc. Code § 872.810, but partition by sale is allowed if a partition by sale maximizes the market value of the subject property(s).\n\nIn many cases, a two-step process may be required: (1) a trial, during which oral and documentary evidence is heard, and either affirms or denies the right of the moving party to effect a partition of the subject property(s), and, if affirmed, results in an interlocutory judgment (sometimes called a \"first interlocutory judgment\"), and (2) particularly in a contested partition, an evidentiary hearing (also a trial), usually after the property(s) have been appraised by experts, and during which trial additional oral and documentary evidence is heard, the property(s) are ordered divided and awarded proportionally where possible, including cash compensation where proportional division is impractical or impossible (sometimes called a \"second interlocutory judgment\"). The division usually requires the employment of experts such as engineers and surveyors, and the preparation of special reports (which include conveyance deeds and easement deeds). As a final act, the court, in a hearing (not a trial), will accept the special reports and order that these be executed by a title company, which will also effectuate \"recordation\" of the conveyance and easement deeds (any cash compensation due any of the parties will also be effectuated within the escrow).\n\nOnce the court has determined that real property is to be partitioned, the court is authorized to appoint a Partition Referee for the purpose of handling the actual partition of the property. \nThe Court’s interlocutory judgment may order either division of the property or sale of the property (with later division of the sale proceeds). In either case, a Partition Referee is appointed to carry the interlocutory judgment into effect. The Partition Referee may be authorized to employ attorneys, surveyors, real estate broker, engineers, and the like. \nThe sale by the Partition Referee can be made by either public auction or private sale, whichever is more beneficial to the parties. The most common method of sale of real property is by private sale with the assistance of a real estate broker for advertising the property. \nSales by Partition Referees must be confirmed by the court before becoming final. At the confirmation hearing, the court may confirm the proposed sale, reject the proposed sale, or allow higher bids for the property through an over-bidding process.\nThe Partition Referee is given authority to execute documents as required to conclude a sale that is confirmed by the Court.\n\nA party seeking a partition must file a partition lawsuit. State codes generally favor physical division (partition in-kind) of the affected property(s) over sale (partition by sale as a unit), particularly if a tenant would be displaced from his or her primary residence by a sale. If in-kind partition is feasible, the property(s) will be divided proportionally. Where small differences in such division are unavoidable, cash compensation for the difference(s) will be awarded to maintain proportionality. If the property(s) cannot be divided and allocated to give each tenant a portion without spoiling the whole, the court will order a sale. A special master (referee) is commonly appointed by the court to execute the partition process. The referee is responsible only to the court, and the referee is limited only by the court's instructions, and applicable state codes. For an in-kind partition, the referee will cause deeds to the adjusted property(s) to be prepared. Where easements are required for access, the referee will employ professionals (engineers, surveyors and other experts) as required to describe the easement(s). The conveyance deeds for the adjusted property(s) and the easement deed(s) will be recorded simultaneously. Often, \"referee's deeds\" (deeds signed by the referee, in the owner's stead) may be employed.\n\nTenants in common (TIC) deeds may or may not be taken in equal shares, but a joint tenants with rights of survivorship (JTWROS) deed must always be taken in equal shares unless specifically and clearly indicated otherwise in the deed language. Therefore, a partition action for those two types of deeds will vary.\n\nWhen a JTWROS property is partitioned, the proceeds must be divided equally among tenants without regard to contribution to purchase price since a JTWROS deed is always taken in equal shares. So with a JTWROS, contributions to purchase price is not an issue during partition. Otherwise, the premise of a JTWROS deed would be invalid and its purpose would be defeated. On the other hand, when a TIC property is partitioned, courts may be at liberty to consider unequal contributions to purchase price and adjust the tenants' distributions accordingly.\n\nIn either partition situation, tenants may request credits for unequal contributions to expenses incurred \"after\" taking deed to the property. Such credits may cover utility and maintenance expenses, and are allocated according to shares. Credits for improvements to the property may be granted if the improvements actually increased the value of the property.\n"}
{"id": "2058734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2058734", "title": "Southlands College, Galle", "text": "Southlands College, Galle\n\nSouthlands College, also known as Southlands Girls, is a Girls' school located in Galle, southern capital of Sri Lanka. Southlands College is situated within the historical Galle fort.\n\nSouthlands College is the premier Girls school in Southern Sri Lanka. It was started during the British rule in 1885. Miss. Lucy Vanderstraaten was the first Principal. The school began in two larger down-stair rooms in a house in Fort with a group of some 50 children. At the beginning it was named \"Wesleyan Girls School\".\n\nLong before Sri Lanka came under Western Rule, education was primarily in the hands of the priests in the village temple. It was the main institution for education. Under Portuguese and Dutch rulers the prevailing system was changed and gradually the church started running elementary schools in villages. When the British took over the administration in the 19th Century several changes were made in the country’s education system\n\n\"Another important influence that entered the island with British occupation was in the realm of Christian missionary education and religious activity. The liberal attitude toward private missionary activity soon attracted many missions to the Island. All these missionary societies concentrated on education, for this was held to be the key to conversion. The government was content to leave education, in the hands of the mission and to provide them with grants. Besides being economical, it was also the way education was organized in Britain. The British government in Ceylon had no consistent policy on education, and support to the missions depended on the predilections of the Governor. The missions opened and managed their own schools in various parts of the country on funds sent by home organizations.\" (Arsaratnam, 1964: 154)\n\n\"The Chief Justice of Ceylon, Alexander Johnston on a visit to England in 1809 conferred with Wilberforce who recommended Ceylon as a field for a Wesleyan Mission….. The arrival of the first five Methodist Missionaries at Galle [took place in] June 1814 …. In 1884 Government gave up all its English schools except Royal College. The English schools were handed over to the Christian Missions ….The Government Girls High School which was in Galle Fort was handed over to the Methodist Mission.\" (Roberts, 1993: 117-119)\n\nIn 1885 Wesleyan Girls School was opened with a group of 51 pupils in two large class rooms. Miss Lucy Vanderstraaten became the first Principal. \n\nAs recounted in the Southlands B.M.V Centenary 1885-1985 magazine, Miss Westlake was the 10th Principal of the school assuming duties as principal in 1907 and she served the school for eleven years. A new era dawned with her as the principal with many improvements occurring during her period. She travelled to college from the Wesleyan Missionary headquarters at Richmond Hill and is credited with opening up a hostel in a residence at Light House Street in Fort with four pupils and a teacher. She did her best to upgrade the school and to her credit there was a significant expansion of material resources of the school and steady improvement in the quality of education imparted to the students. A science room and a class room for the kindergarten children were newly built by her. The expenses to put up these buildings were met by the government, past pupils, and well wishers.\n\nShe was capable of doing all these improvements during her period due to her frugal and efficient management of the school finances. It was during her time in 1914 that the Past Pupils Association was formed. Southlands became the first school to have a Girl Guide Company in Galle. Miss Freethy who was the vice principal during Miss Westlake’s era became the principal of the school in 1918 when Miss Westlake left Sri Lanka.\n\nDuring Miss Freethy’s time remarkable changes were done. The foremost of those was renaming the school as SOUTHLANDS in 1922. The name was chosen mainly to honour Miss Westlake for her distinguished work in the school since she had he training at Southlands Methodist College in Wimbledon, England. It is a very happy coincidence because Southlands is the premier Girls school in the South and also one of the oldest girls’ schools in Sri Lanka too.\n\nToday Southlands has become a centre for learning not only in the South but also one of the national educational institutions in the Island.\n\nDuring the long period Southlands College developed in the academic field as well as in many \nextra-curricular activities. In addition to the normal primary education of the school, Southlands \npupils had the privilege of learning music, singing, western and eastern drama, dancing physical \ntraining and a number of sports as tennis, netball and cricket. Home economics, Needle work, \nHandicraft and Guiding etc. were yet others since all those subjects were introduced to the main \nschool curriculum in that era. \n\n\"1902-1907\":-Southlands College started her rapid development during the period of Mrs. E. \nLudovici, a past pupil, a member of the tutorial staff, who rose to be the Principal in 1902. During \nher period Physical Education and Western Music were introduced. A school Library was \nfounded to develop the reading habits of the students. \n\n\"1907-1918\":-Miss. M. Westlake, the distinguished principal who succeeded Ms. Ludovici, made \nmany changes for the further development of the school. A Boarding House was started to help \nthe students who came from a far. A Science Laboratory and a Kindergarten unit were also built. \nThe Old Pupils Association was inaugurated in 1914 with much enthusiasm to help the school \nand 1st Galle Guide Company was formed in the school in 1917. A new era dawned in the school \nduring the eleven years of her dedicated service. \n\n\"1918-1935\":-Miss. Freethy took over the administration in 1918 and rendered her services for 11 \nlong years being another dedicated missionary. She developed the college in many fields. The \nfirst school magazine was edited and published to hail the dawn of progress. Since the number of \npupils increased, hostel facilities were in great demand. During her period, a well wisher of the \nschool, Muhandiram Wickramasinghe, very generously donated a building for the hostel in \nmemory of his daughters named \"Wickramasinghe Hostel\". This turned out to be a great asset to \nthe school. Rapid development of the school made the Government upgrade the school to a \nsecondary school. Along with the change Miss Freethy found a new name to the school too and it \nbecame Southlands College in 1902. The name was specially chosen to honor Miss. Westlake, the \nmuch devoted Principal, who had her missionary training at Southlands College, Wimbledon \nbefore her arrival in Sri Lanka. \n\nWe should remember Miss. Freethy for guiding the pupils in qualities of leadership by \nintroducing the house system into the school administration. Thus the four houses were born in \nhonor of four lady missionaries, Westlake, Wiseman, Hellier and Hunter. In 1927, the school was \ngiven a much-needed assembly hall, and in 1930 a two storey building was built \nto widen the hostel facilities in the school premises itself. Thus the \"Resteric\" hostel which is \nbeing used by boarders even today was declared open by the Governor of Ceylon, Sir Herbert \nStanley. The year 1935 became a significant year during Miss. Freethy’s period when the school \ncelebrated the Golden Jubilee on a very grand scale. The song which was specially composed for \nthe jubilee celebrations was made the school song and was sung until the school was vested in the \nGovernment. \n\n\"1935-1946, 1950-1956\":-Miss. Edith Ridge graced Southlands in 1929 as the vice Principal. She \nsucceeded Miss. Freethy and completed 20 long years as Principal. A rapid improvement was \nseen during her period when in 1954, she was able to build a two storied building to house the \nincreasing number of students seeking admission. a year later, she completed the 3rd storey of the \nbuilding with the assistance given by all pupils and parents, teachers and all well-wishers and \nwas declared open in 1956 as the \"Ridge Building\". It became a \"Rich Building\" with a large \nnumber of class rooms, an art room, science laboratory, Principal’s quarters and the college \noffice. The school developed rapidly during this period which could be considered a golden era of \nthe college. The school was able to celebrate the 70th anniversary also in a very grand way during \nher period. She became the most loved Principal of pupils, teachers, parents and all well wishers \nin Southern Sri Lanka. \n\nMuch later in 1996, the O.P.A Colombo branch presented a felicitation volume \"Golden Heart of \nSouthlands\" to her on her 96th Birthday in U.K. She was 99 years old when she died on \n11 December 2002. \n\n\"Development of the school since 1955:\"\n\n1956-1960:-When Miss. Edith Ridge left in 1956 the administration was handed over to the then \nvice principal, Miss. Leila Solomon, a qualified Educationist. Though it was not an easy task to \nsucceed a Principal of that caliber, Miss. Solomon however was able to maintain the high \nstandard of education in the school by introducing more changes to the school curriculum and \nadministration. The Advanced Level Arts stream was introduced during her time. She encouraged \nall extra-curricular activities. The Guide Company and Brownie pack were revived. She \nsucceeded in organizing a Parent-Teacher Association in 1958 which was of immense help to the \nschool. She tried to educate the child through modern Technology, Audio Visual media being \nintroduced into teaching in her time. She also tried to improve the quality of education by \nintroducing General Knowledge competitions, Spelling contests and many other competitive \nactivities. Library reading was made compulsory to improve the reading habit. She left in 1960 on \na government scholarship to USA being the last missionary Principal of Southlands. Miss \nSolomon departed from us on the 29rh of October 2001. \n\n1960-1962:-This is considered an important period in the history of the school. The school was \non the verge of being vested in Government and Miss. Queeni Abeywardena, loyal past pupil and \ndevoted teacher for many years was appointed as the acting Principal for a short period. On 5th \nMarch 1962, Southlands College was vested in the Government according to the new educational \npolicy. It saw the end of a memorable era and missionary management of the school. Miss. Q. \nAbeywardena retired from service as the last Christian Principal of Southlands. \n\n1962-1972:- Southlands became a government school and Mrs. Rupa Nanayakkara was appointed \nthe firth Principal after the take over. She rendered valuable service for over 10 years as a devoted \nPrincipal who tried to develop the school in numerous ways. Advanced Level Science classes \nwere introduced to pave the path for students to enter Medical College. She tried to develop the \n\nskills of the student and all extra curricular activities were reintroduced. Along with the change of \nadministration a new school song was composed replacing the old one. \n\nThe western Band and Oriental Orchestra were started. To encourage the Advanced Level Home \nScience students, a new Home science room was built. The most significant event during her era \nwas that for the first time in the history of Southlands, an all night Pirith Ceremony was held \nfollowed by an alms giving the merit of which was bestowed on all past Principals, teachers and \nwell wishers who had helped to make Southlands a major Educational Institute in the Southern \nProvince. During Mrs. Nanayakkara’s period the government commemorated the Educational \nCentenerary and Southlands College too celebrated it in a grand way. Special attention was given \nto English education with assistance given by devoted teachers such as Miss. Ludovici to improve \nthe knowledge of the English language of the student. Fine Arts were revived and Mrs. \nNanayakkara too encouraged producing many Sinhala stage drama with the assistance given by \nMr. Herman Perera, keeping the old tradition of the school alive. For the first time in the School’s \nhistory Southlands was fortunate enough to bring \"Kusa Jathkaya\" the stage drama on the boards \nat Lumbini Theatre to a full house. \n\nDuring Mrs. Nanayakkara’s period the number of students who sought admission to the school \nincreased rapidly and the accommodation was not enough to house the Primary and Upper school \ntogether. Even though it was not a good solution, the primary classes were conducted in the \nafternoon due to lack of accommodation. \n\nShe rendered 10 years of devoted service to the upgrading of the school and left having been \nappointed Principal of Ananda Balika Vidyalaya, Colombo. \n\n1972-1976:-Mrs. L. Gunasingha succeeded Mrs. Nanayakkara and during her short period she \nhelped to improve the standard of the school. The school was now endowed with a new two \nstoried building. The school Hewisi Band was formed, the aesthetic unit improved and children \nparticipated in several all-island competitions. Guiding activities was revived and a Southlands \nstudent was fortunate enough to participate in the World Guiding Jamboree in U.S.A. \nrepresenting Sri Lanka. She helped to inaugurate a branch of the National Savings Bank in the \nschool. \n\n1976-1991:-Another memorable period dawned when an experienced teacher Mrs. Daniel, \nassumed duties as Principal and devoted her services for 15 long years for the betterment of the \nschool. During her time many significant events occurred and Southlands College became \npopular due to continued academic achievement. The major event during this time was the \nupgrading of the school to an \"A\" grade one and being further promoted as one of the eighteen \nnational schools in the Island in 1984. The student population increased and the school needed \nmore accommodation to house the students comfortably. Thus a new two storied building was \nconstructed. \"Volanka\" another large building adjoining the school was bought with the financial \nassistance given by renowned southern philanthropist Mr. B.R. Dissanayaka in memory of wife \nKathleen Balage ho was a past pupil of the school. \n\nThe building was renamed as \"Dissanayaka Building\". The primary school children who were \nstudying in the afternoon session for lack of accommodation had the privilege of having the best \nof facilities in modern class rooms again in the morning from 1984. \n\nThe Buddhist atmosphere pervading the school during Mrs. Nanayakkara’s time was enhanced \nfurther when Mrs. Daniel did her best to construct a Buddhist shrine room for the benefit of \n\nBuddhist children who comprised the majority of students to observe religious activities before \nthe school began. A school co-operative society was established which is functioning well even \ntoday and a Teachers’ Guild too were formed during this period. \n\nSouthlands College completed 100 years of service in the field of education during Mrs. Daniel’s \ntime and the school celebrated the centenary in a very grand way. A very valuable school \nmagazine was published tracing the history of the school with the assistance of pupils and \ndevoted teachers. \n\nRemarkable progress was made in the academic field as well as in all other activities during her \n15 years of devoted service and Southlands College gained popularity in Southern Sri Lanka. \nMrs. Daniel retired from education service in 1991 after imparting valuable service to the great \ndevelopment of the school and leaving an indelible mark in the history of the school. \n\n1991-1995:-Mrs. K. Rajapaksa became the Principal in 1991. During her short stay the school \nwas able to own a bus to provide traveling facilities to the student through the efforts of the OGA \nas one of their projects. Karate was introduced to the school curriculum and a building which was \nnearing completion was finished and declared open during her time. \n\n1995-1999:-Mrs. N. Kumarasinghe a devoted staff member who served the school for a number \nof years was appointed as the Principal in 1995. She made arrangements to build a modern \nauditorium for the college as the present assembly hall could not accommodate the increasing \nstudent population. She encouraged the present students to sing the old English school \nhymn full of valuable gems of advice every morning at assembly Special attempt was made to \nimprove the quality of English knowledge of the student. Educational indoor games were \nencouraged and most valuable historical school magazine \"First decade of the second century\" \nwas published. Mrs. Kumarasinghe retired in 1995 having rendered valuable service for many \nyears at Southlands. \n\n1999 -2006 Mrs. Leelakanthi Gunawardena, a past pupil who was a member of the staff for \nmany years assumed office in 1999. She became the third past pupil who had the privilege of \nbeing the principal of Southlands. During her time there had been many admirable and academic \nrecords in the school in all fields The most memorable achievement in the academic history was \nwhen one of the students won the first place in the All Island Advanced Level Examination in \n1999 in the Commerce Stream. This record was maintained in the following year when yet \nanother student was able to gain this place again in the same examination in 2000 in the Arts \nstream Such performance of academic excellence seem to be pursued by emerging generations \nwhen the 2nd and 3rd places at ordinary level Examinations were secured by Southlands in 2003 \n\nIn year 2002 a modern auditorium was handed over to the school by the Ministry of Education. \nThe \"Resteric\" hostel which was 70 years old was renovated with the assistance of the Education \nMinistry and reopened to help accommodate the students who attend school from distant \nlocalities. Mrs. H L T Gunawardena left the school after getting a promotion as the ADE of \nScience and Maths in the Southern Province \n\n2006–2007 – Mrs. P A D Suneetha became the principal in 2006. During her short stay in \nschool, she paid her attention in improving the quality of English in school. English camps, \nSinging assemblies were held for each and every grade. Mrs. P A D Suneetha left the school \nafter getting a transfer to Horana Sripalee Vidyalaya \n\n2007 – We should be happy to have a devoted past pupil; Mrs Geethani Wijegunasinghe \nas the present principal. The Advanced Level Bio-laboratory which was closed for some years \nwas renovated and reopened for the use of the Students. For guiding the students in qualities of \nleadership she introduced the ‘Junior Prefects’ in to the school administration. These Junior \nPrefects were selected from the grade nine classes.\n\n\"School Crest\"\n\nSchool crest appears firstly on the outer cover page of the Diamond college magazine (1885–1945) during the period of Miss Edith Ridge.\n\nAfter the school was vested in the Government the crest was changed. The Letter in the centre of the crest was changed and instead of the letter ‘S’ the Sinhala letter ‘SA’ was installed on the centre of the crest (1962–1976).\n\nDuring the other periods no difference is visible in the crest but we could see an evolution of the crest at different times. The crest was printed in red on many magazines and printed matter before 1976 but after 1977 red and silver colours had been used for the crest. For the first time we come across the crest and the motto together in the magazine published in 1956. The significant feature found in this magazine is that the Sinhalese words are indicated on the top of the crest and the English wordings had been printed at the bottom. This becomes more important since this had been done by the Principals during a period under Methodist missionary management.\n\nAfter 1977 and up to now the English motto ‘Knit together in love and service’ is indicated on the crest but the Sinhalese words had been omitted.\n\n\"School Motto\"\n\nMotto is a short list of words meant formally to describe the general motivation of any organization, designed to serve a purpose. A motto is often depicted on the crest.\nFirst and foremost we come across the school motto on the outer cover page of the magazine May 1924 Vol. IV No 3 and on the 18th & 19th pages of the same magazine we find a description of the school motto for the first time along with an account of an O.P.A. dinner. It is an exceptionally significant incident to note and mention that a school motto had been used in both languages English and Sinhalese in an English medium school administered by foreign Missionaries during the period under British rule.\n\n"}
{"id": "2058736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2058736", "title": "Craughwell", "text": "Craughwell\n\nCraughwell (historically \"Creaghmoyle\", from ) is a village and townland in County Galway, Ireland. \n\nThe name Craughwell is also used as a surname, properly \"Ó Creachmhaoil\", though often anglicised as \"Craughwell\" and \"Crockwell\". The surname was largely unknown outside of the southeast of County Galway until the end of the 19th century when émigrés established families which still thrive in Newfoundland, Bermuda, Cornwall, Ohio and Berkshire County, Massachusetts, among other places.\n\nThe name is composed of two Irish words: \"creach\", meaning in this case \"plunder\", presumably in reference to herds of cattle, which were often targets of thefts and cattle raids amongst the Gaels. The usual Gaelic word for cattle is \"crodh\", often Anglicised in place-names as , although the words \"cro\", \"crocharsach\", and \"crò\" are all connected with sheep, sheep enclosures or meadows. An alternate etymology of \"creach\" is related to \"craig\", and \"creag\", and the English word \"crag\", which refers to a rock, or the bare rock crest of a hill (related words are \"cruach\", for a mountain, pinnacle, or a rounded hill that stands apart or for any type of pile, or heap, and \"cnoc\", for a hill or eminence); and \"maol\", which is a word for a round-shaped hill or mountain, bare of trees. It is anglicised as , and is common in Irish and Scottish place names such as the Mull of Kintyre. Gaelic spelling rules require that \"maol\" following \"creach\" be lenited; that is, an is inserted after the first letter, providing the first letter is a consonant (and not an , , or ). This makes the preceding consonant silent, or changes its sound (, or , for instance, are silent or sound like an English or ). Gaelic spelling rules also require that, with the first letter lenited, the last vowel should be slender (an , or an ). As both vowels in \"maol\" are broad, an is inserted after. These two changes alter the sound of \"maol\" to \"mhaoil\". Thetwo words together, therefore, sounds to an English ear like \"Crockwell\", or \"Craughwell\", and it is Anglicised thus (the Gaelic personal names \"Seán\" (John) and \"Seamus\" (James) became \"Iain\" and \"Hamish\" in Scotland by similar means).\n\nPatrick W. Joyce, the pioneer of Irish placename studies, speculated that the name in Irish was \"Creamhchoill\", ('garlic wood'). He was unaware of the local spelling and pronunciation but confirmed in a later work that the village was called \"Creachmhaoil\" in Irish.\n\nThe village of Creachmhaoil celebrates its connection with the Gaelic poet Antoine Ó Raifteiri and Anjelica Huston, and provides the surnames of notables including American painter Douglass Crockwell the Bermudian parliamentarian Shawn Crockwell, JP, MP, the late Bermudian FIFA-certified football referee and Honorary Life Vice-President of the Bermuda Football Association Carlyle McNeil Eugene Crockwell, Bermudian footballer Mikkail Kristopher Crockwell, Bermudian cricketer Fiqre Crockwell, English cricketer Leslie Crockwell, Guinness World Record holding rower Matthew Craughwell, and American author Thomas J. Craughwell.\n\nThe town currently has three pubs, a Garda station, a pharmacy, a furniture store, post office, hairdressers, a service station, a lawnmower shop, an athletics track, and a pizzeria and fish and chip shop. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2058743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2058743", "title": "Dunmore, County Galway", "text": "Dunmore, County Galway\n\nDunmore () is a village in County Galway, Ireland. It is located on the N83 national secondary road at its junction with the R328 and R360 regional roads.\n\nThe town belongs to an ancient tuath called Conmhaícne Dúna-Móir and Cenél Dubáin, ruled by Uí Conchobair of Ui Briuin Ai from the 12th century, and a capital of Connacht for a time. King Tairrdelbach Ua Conchobair died here in 1156.\n\nUntil the early 1980s, the N83 through Dunmore was on the main road from Sligo to Galway City. Improvements to the N17 route through Knock and Claremorris reduced the amount of traffic on the N83.\n\nThe ruins of Dunmore Castle are situated on a small hillock outside the village. The first castle at this site was built by the Anglo-Norman de-Birmingham family in the early 13th century. Designed as a bulwark against the native Irish, the castle was attacked in 1249 and burned by the O’Connor's. In 1284 it was besieged by the forces of Fichra O’ Flynn. In 1315 it was once more the scene of conflict when an army, led by Rory Connor, attacked and damaged the fortress.\n\nDunmore McHales is the local Gaelic Athletic Association club.\n\nThe local association football (soccer) club, Dunmore Town AFC, was founded in 1979 and fields some underage teams in the Roscommon League.\n\nDunmore RFC was founded in 1977 and Dunmore Demesne Golf Club in 1998.\n\n\nDunmore is twinned with the village of Querrien in France.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2058754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2058754", "title": "Glenamaddy", "text": "Glenamaddy\n\nGlenamaddy () is a small town in County Galway, Ireland. It lies at the crossroads where the R362 and R364 regional roads meet. Glenamaddy became a musical focal point in Connacht during the 1960s during the showband era.\n\nTo the east of the town lies Loch Lurgeen, a raised bog. The origins of the parish lie in the village of Boyounagh, which lies to the northwest of Glenamaddy.\n\nIt is unclear what the exact meaning and Irish translation for Glenamaddy is. It could be derived from the Irish \"Gleann na Madadh\", \"Gleann\" meaning glen (valley) and \"madhadh\" from \"madra\" meaning dog. This would suggest that the name means Valley of the Dogs. This name could have originated from the shape of the Glenamaddy Turlough as looked at from above.\n\nGlenamaddy might also have come from \"Gleann na Maighe Duibhí\" or Valley of the Black Plain, presumably because of the turlough lake in the area which dries up every year leaving behind a black plain of limestone.\n\nGlenamaddy was located in what was the medieval kingdom of Uí Díarmata, ruled by the O Concannon dynasty.\n\nThe town itself did not develop until the 1820s when a church was built and regular markets began in the town. From this time on the town began to grow and shops and pubs were built around the square and on the four roads leading into the town which are known from the song of the same name. In 1853 a workhouse was built on the Creggs road.\n\nIn 1904 St. Patrick's church was built to replace the older church which was in the grounds of where the town graveyard stands today. In 1909 St. Bridget's Town Hall was built. In 1924 a mill was built in Leitra and gave employment in the area. Other places of interest include a megalithic tomb at Ballinastack, a crannóg on Kiltullagh lake and the Jeremiah Mee Memorial on the wall outside Phelan's lounge.\n\nIn the early 20th century markets were popular in the town as for some small cottage industries it was the main outlet for their wares. Cattle, pigs, sheep, animal feeds, and household supplies were all sold at these markets and large crowds gathered in the town on these days. All goods being sold in the town were weighed at the weigh-house.\n\nIn the 21st century, Glenamaddy has some decline after the loss of its Bank of Ireland and Ulster Bank branches, in 2006 and 2013, respectively. The town has lost over 120 of its young people to emigration.\n\nDuring penal times a priest would travel to Esker celebrate mass at the site of a \"mass rock\". Often a screen or curtain divided the priest from the congregation, in order to protect the priest's identity. On one occasion, around the 1790s a priest was celebrating mass at Esker. An informer had notified the authorities that the priest would be there. Although scouts were positioned along the hilltops they didn't see the Red Coats because they were dressed as common people and mingled among the crowd. As soon as the priest arrived he was captured and was given a mock trial. He was hanged from a tree which is now called Sceach na gCloigeann the white thorn tree of the heads. Along with the priest a number of people were massacred. The valley in which this occurred is known as Gleann an tSagairt, the priest's valley. The rock on which sentence was delivered is called \"Carraig an Bhreithiunais”. A bell was found in a nearby field some years later. A brass cross was also found with no base, which had been painted black to prevent reflection of sunlight. For the millennium, Mass was celebrated by Canon Michael Goaley P.P. and Fr. Tom Kearney C.C.\n\nThe Esker Ballroom was once one of the most popular dance venues in the country. Built by James Keaveney in 1947 on the Kilkerrin Road in Glenamaddy, the ballroom initially failed to get a license to hold dances or operate a bar. Eventually, in April 1949, the first dance was held in The Esker Ballroom. The dance was successful and was the first of many, held every second Sunday, which would make the Esker Ballroom famous throughout the country. In 1970 the Esker Ballroom closed as marquees who were in direct competition with the ballroom became more and more popular in the area. The Sound of Music opened by Jim \"Pete\" Keaveney, with opposition from the church. The building was sold to Joe O'Neill who then set up the Sound of Music night club which drew crowds from all over Connaught.\n\nThe popular song, \"Four Country Roads\", mentions Glenamaddy and it became a hit for Big Tom in Ireland in 1981.\n\nGlenamaddy Community school was founded in 2002 by the Sisters of Mercy and Co. Galway VEC following the amalgamation of Coláiste Seosaimh and St. Benin's Vocational School.\n\nGlenamaddy C.L.G. is the local Gaelic Athletic Association club and plays Gaelic football. Glen Celtic is the local soccer club.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2058757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2058757", "title": "List of urban parishes of Guayaquil", "text": "List of urban parishes of Guayaquil\n\nThis is a list of urban parishes in Guayaquil:\n\n"}
{"id": "2058760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2058760", "title": "Takahito, Prince Mikasa", "text": "Takahito, Prince Mikasa\n\nWith the death of his sister-in-law, Kikuko, Princess Takamatsu, on 17 December 2004, he became the oldest living member of the Imperial House of Japan. At his death at the age of 100, Prince Takahito was the oldest living royal and the oldest living prince in line of succession.\n\nPrince Takahito was born at the Tokyo Imperial Palace in the third year of his father's reign and a full fifteen years after the birth of his eldest brother, the future Emperor Shōwa (Hirohito). His childhood appellation was \"Sumi-no-miya\". Prince Takahito attended the boys' elementary and secondary departments of the Gakushūin (Peers' School) from 1922 to 1932. By the time he began his secondary schooling, his eldest brother had already ascended the Chrysanthemum Throne and his next two brothers, Prince Chichibu and Prince Takamatsu, had already embarked upon careers in the Japanese Imperial Army and the Japanese Imperial Navy, respectively. He enrolled in the Imperial Japanese Army Academy in 1932 and was commissioned as a sub-lieutenant and assigned to the Fifth Cavalry Regiment in June 1936. He subsequently graduated from the Army Staff College.\n\nUpon attaining the age of majority in December 1935, Emperor Shōwa granted him the title \"Mikasa-no-miya\" (Prince Mikasa) and the authorization to form a new branch of the Imperial Family.\n\nPrince Mikasa was promoted to lieutenant in 1937 and to captain in 1939, serving in China under the name of \"Wakasugi\". During his army career, he was harshly critical of the Japanese military's conduct in China. In a 1994 interview, he criticised the Imperial Army's invasion of and atrocities in China, and recalled having been \"strongly shocked\" when an officer informed him that the best way to train new recruits was to use living Chinese POWs for bayonet practice. According to Daniel Barenblatt, Prince Mikasa and his cousin Prince Tsuneyoshi Takeda received a special screening by Shirō Ishii of a film showing airplanes loading germ bombs for bubonic plague dessemination over the Chinese city of Ningbo in 1940. He also was given a film of Japanese atrocities, possibly linked to the footage used in \"The Battle of China\", and was so moved that he made his brother Emperor Hirohito watch the film.\n\nIn 1994, a newspaper revealed that after Prince Mikasa's return to Tokyo, he had written a stinging indictment of the conduct of the Imperial Japanese Army in China, where the Prince had witnessed Japanese atrocities against Chinese civilians. The Imperial Army General Staff suppressed the document, but one copy survived and surfaced in 1994. After the war, it was reported that while an officer, Prince Mikasa had taken a strict stance against lax discipline and the cruel actions of Japanese soldiers serving in China.\n\nPromoted to major in 1941, Prince Mikasa served as a staff officer in the Headquarters of the China Expeditionary Army at Nanjing, China from January 1943 to January 1944. His role was intended to bolster the legitimacy of the Wang Jingwei regime and to coordinate with Japanese Army staff towards a peace initiative, but his efforts were totally undermined by the Operation Ichi-Go campaign launched by the Imperial General Headquarters.\n\nPrince Mikasa served as a staff officer in the Army Section of the Imperial General Headquarters in Tokyo until Japan's surrender in August 1945. After the end of the war, the Prince spoke before the Privy Council, urging that Hirohito abdicate to take responsibility for the war.\n\nOn 22 October 1941, Prince Mikasa married Yuriko Takagi (born 4 June 1923), the second daughter of Viscount (\"kazoku\", pre-war Japan's upper classes) Masanari Takagi. Prince and Princess Mikasa had five children. In addition to their five children, they had nine grandchildren and four great-grandchildren as of 2015. The couple's two daughters left the Imperial Family upon marriage. All of their sons predeceased them.\n\n\nAfter the defeat of Japan in World War II, many members of the imperial family, such as Princes Chichibu, Takamatsu and Higashikuni, pressed Emperor Hirohito to abdicate so that one of the Princes could serve as regent until Crown Prince Akihito came of age. On 27 February 1946, Prince Mikasa even stood up in the privy council and indirectly urged the Emperor to step down and accept responsibility for Japan's defeat. U.S. General of the Army Douglas MacArthur insisted that Emperor Hirohito retain the throne. According to Minister of Welfare Ashida's diary, \"Everyone seemed to ponder Mikasa's words. Never have I seen His Majesty's face so pale.\"\n\nAfter the war, Prince Mikasa enrolled in the Literature Faculty of the University of Tokyo and pursued advanced studies in archaeology, Middle Eastern studies, and Semitic languages. From 1954 until his death in 2016, he directed the Japanese Society for Middle East Studies. He was honorary president of the Japan Society of Orientology. The Prince held visiting and guest faculty appointments in Middle Eastern studies and archaeology at various universities in Japan and abroad, including: Tokyo National University of Fine Arts and Music, Aoyama Gakuin, Tokyo Woman's Christian University, the University of London, Hokkaido University and the University of Shizuoka. He made numerous radio and television appearances, speaking on cultural subjects, and was known as \"the Imperial scholar\".\n\nTowards the end of his life, due to his advanced age, Prince Mikasa rarely made public appearances, and regularly used a wheelchair. He and Princess Mikasa lived together at a residence in the grounds of the Akasaka Estate in Motoakasaka, Minato, Tokyo. He underwent heart surgery in 2012, and made a full recovery. His routine included exercising for about 30 minutes each day with his wife at their Tokyo residence, and he often went outdoors for a roll in his wheelchair. About once a week, he would leave his home for a haircut, or to attend various events for other family members. In October 2014, he attended the Tokyo wedding of his granddaughter Princess Noriko, the second daughter of his youngest son Prince Takamado. Palace staff noted that he appeared vigorous until his last days, and that he would always be seen helping his wife to get about. He continued to read newspapers, and enjoyed watching sumo and music programs on television.\n\nOn 2 December 2015, Prince Mikasa became the first member of the imperial family to become a centenarian. On his 100th birthday, he said, \"Nothing will change just because I turn 100 years old. I'd like to spend my days pleasantly and peacefully while praying for the happiness of people around the world and thanking my wife, Yuriko, who has been supporting me for more than 70 years.\" At his residence in April 2016, he met the Japanese ambassador to Turkey and took a stroll at the Akasaka Detached Palace.\n\nOn 16 May 2016, Prince Mikasa was admitted to the intensive-care unit of St. Luke's International Hospital in Tokyo's Chuo Ward, having contracted acute pneumonia. He remained in hospital for the remaining months of his life. His heart weakened in June, and fluid accumulated in his lungs. Princess Yuriko frequently visited him along with other Imperial family members, including the Emperor and Empress in June. During his last days, Prince Mikasa remained responsive to visitors. On 22 October, Prince Mikasa and his wife celebrated their 75th wedding anniversary in his hospital room. His condition eventually stabilised to the point where he began to receive rehabilitation in his bed, which included stretching his arms and legs. At 7:40 a.m. on 27 October, however, his heart gradually slowed, stopping at 8 a.m. Prince Mikasa was pronounced dead at 8:34 a.m., with his wife at his side. At his death, he had outlived all of his siblings and all three of his sons. He was also the last surviving grandson of Emperor Meiji.\n\nPrince Mikasa's funeral was held on 4 November 2016 at Toshimagaoka Imperial Cemetery. About 580 people including members of the Imperial Family, Prime Minister Shinzō Abe, U.S. Ambassador Caroline Kennedy, and former imperial family members Sayako Kuroda and Noriko Senge and their husbands, attended the funeral. Princess Mikasa hosted the ceremony as the chief mourner.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2058763", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2058763", "title": "Simple Machines Forum", "text": "Simple Machines Forum\n\nSimple Machines Forum software, or SMF software, is an open-source, Internet forum, message-board program developed by \"Simple Machines\". The name reflects the communities' initial goal of providing a program that could be operated by novice programmers and require minimal server resources. Simple Machines won \"forum-software.org\" best free forum software award in 2009.\n\nSimple Machines Forum (SMF) is an open-source discussion board software project, which consists of volunteers participating in various operating functions including development, customization, documentation, localization/translation, user support, and marketing. The project is owned by a non-profit organization, named \"Simple Machines\". Liroy van Hoewijk (\"CoreISP\") is President and CEO of the Simple Machines organization, \"Illori\" is the project manager of SMF. \"Sesquipedalian\" is SMF's lead software developer.\n\nSimple Machines is organized and operates as a not-for-profit membership corporation organized under Nevada law. To be eligible for membership, a person or entity must be nominated by a current member of the corporation and must complete a written or electronic membership application and approved by the Board of Directors. The organization has not applied to become a 501(c)(3) organization; however, its internal bylaws still prohibit activities which would disqualify it from becoming one in the future.\n\nThe organization is funded by private donations, advertisements on their own website, and income from \"charter memberships\". Free support is available via the official SMF message board. However, charter members who contribute a minimum of $50 have access to enhanced support.\n\nSMF is available in 46 languages in UTF-8 and non-UTF-8 encodings. There are more than 20 large forums with at least one million posts using SMF.\n\nOn June 16, 2001, 16-year-old Zef Hemel along with collaborators Jeff Lewis, Corey Chapman, T. Oswalds, and Matt Mecham released the first open source bulletin board written in Perl called YaBB 1.0 (Yet Another Bulletin Board). YaBB 1.0 was the leading free forum software package at the time. It proved, however, to be inefficient and slow for active communities.\n\nOn November 12, 2001, shortly after the release of YaBB 1.0, a second program, YaBB SE 1, written by Jeff Lewis and Joseph Fung (from Lewis Media Inc.) with help from Zef Hemel and Christian Land (from the YaBB project) was released. Ultimately, users of this rough PHP port of YaBB also reported resource and security problems.\n\nLewis and Fung split off from the YaBB SE team to try a different approach for addressing the YaBB SE efficiency problems, security concerns, and to add new features. Lewis and Fung did a complete rewrite of the code and changed the brand name to \"Simple Machines Forum (SMF)\". On September 30, 2003, the first \"YaBB SE/SMF\" product, SMF 1.0 Beta 1a, was released.\n\nThe development and support team for YaBB SE was shut down in March 2004 with hundreds of communities in operation, when the developers joined the SMF project. A converter was developed to convert YaBB SE to SMF.\n\nOn October 23, 2006, the Simple Machines Forum project was split off from Lewis Media for the purpose of \"[solidification of] the team’s commitment to continuously providing free software, without the perceived risks of corporate influence\". The new company was named Simple Machines, LLC. Simple Machines LLC was registered in the state of Arizona, and the transfer of copyrights from Lewis Media to Simple Machines LLC was completed on 24 November 2006 during a three-day retreat in Tucson, AZ.\n\nOn Dec 02, 2006, SMF 1.1 was released.\n\nOn April 8, 2007, Simple Machines announced the introduction of SMF 2.0. SMF 2.0.x has been in development alongside SMF 1.1 since December 2005.\n\nIn June 2010, Simple Machines re-formed as a not-for-profit organization (NPO) registered in Nevada. The transfer of assets from LLC to NPO was completed in April 2011 and in May 2011, Simple Machines, LLC was dissolved. On the 24th of September 2010, the Simple Machines team announced the dissolving of the Simple Machines LLC and all assets moved to the nonprofit organization (Simple Machines) set up for the project.\n\nOn June 11, 2011, SMF 2.0 was released.\n\nOn November 21, 2014, SMF 2.1 beta 1 was released.\n\nSMF 1.0 and 1.1 are published under a proprietary license. While it is source-available, redistribution and/or distribution of modified components is limited to authorized entities.\n\nSMF version 2.0 and 2.1 are licensed under the 3-clause BSD license. It is also open source with redistribution of modified code subject to the BSD requirements.\n\nSimple Machines Forum (SMF) software is written in PHP and uses MySQL for database management – it is built around established industry standards and is generally valued for its high security standards. The use of PHP, MySQL and the fact that SMF is freeware, helped spawn the creation of a large and relatively active volunteer development community.\n\nSMF is commonly deployed on basic web hosting packages, usually Linux, Apache, MySQL, PHP (LAMP) compliant servers. Installations on VPS or dedicated servers are usually needed for sites with a large amount of concurrent users online at the same time. The amount of concurrent users that can be handled depends on the available server resources, the resource limits a hosting provider may imply, the server configuration, and on which kind of modifications have been installed. SMF itself has virtually no limit of traffic it can process, however: the more users online, the more powerful hardware it will require in order to function.\n\nSimple Machines Forum has 4 versions, SMF 1.0, SMF 1.1, SMF 2.0 and SMF 2.1\n\nSMF has a modification base repository for free modification hosting and tracking via the Simple Machines main site. Many modifications, or \"mods\" as they are usually called, have been created and distributed free of charge, including an arcade, Help desk, profile additions, gallery, spam filter, various SEO features, and many more. Before being listed on the SMF Mods site, the mod is validated by the SMF Team, to ensure that it complies with the SMF Coding Guidelines.\n\nThe Package Manager included in SMF is one of the flagship features. It allows an administrator to install modifications and updates to SMF without having to modify the code of the script, usually with only a few mouse clicks.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2058766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2058766", "title": "John Case (novelist)", "text": "John Case (novelist)\n\nJohn Case is the pseudonym of Jim Hougan and Carolyn Hougan, husband and wife, both published authors in their own right.\n\nJim Hougan is also an investigative journalist and broadcaster. He lives in Afton, Virginia.\n\nThe joint writings of Jim and Carolyn have now ended following the death of Carolyn Hougan from cancer on February 25, 2007.\n\nUnder the pseudonym, the Hougans authored six novels:\n\n"}
{"id": "2058776", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2058776", "title": "Le Chiffre", "text": "Le Chiffre\n\nLe Chiffre (, \"The Cypher\" or \"The Number\") is a fictional character and the main antagonist of Ian Fleming's 1953 James Bond novel, \"Casino Royale\". On screen Le Chiffre has been portrayed by Peter Lorre in the 1954 television adaptation of the novel for CBS's \"Climax!\" television series, by Orson Welles in the 1967 spoof of the novel and Bond film series, and by Mads Mikkelsen in the 2006 film version of Fleming's novel.\n\nFleming based the character on occultist Aleister Crowley.\n\nLe Chiffre, alias \"Die Nummer\", \"Mr. Number\", \"Herr Ziffer\" and other translations of \"The Number,\" \"The Numeral,\" \"The Figure,\" \"The Cipher,\" or \"The Code\" in various languages, is the paymaster of the \"Syndicat des Ouvriers d'Alsace\" (French for \"Alsatian Workmen's Union\"), a SMERSH-controlled trade union.\n\nHe is first encountered as an inmate of the Dachau displaced persons camp in the US zone of Germany in June 1945 and transferred to Alsace-Lorraine and Strasbourg three months later on a stateless passport. There he adopts the name Le Chiffre because as he claims, he is \"only a number on a passport\". Not much else is really known about Le Chiffre's background or where he comes from, except for educated guesses based on his description:\n\nIn the novel, he makes a major investment in a string of brothels with money belonging to SMERSH. The investment fails after a bill is signed into law banning prostitution. Le Chiffre then goes to the casino Royale-les-Eaux in an attempt to replace his lost funds. MI6 sends Bond, an expert baccarat player, to the casino to bankrupt Le Chiffre and force him to take refuge with the British government and inform on SMERSH. Bond bests Le Chiffre in a game of Chemin de Fer, taking all of his money. Le Chiffre kidnaps Bond's love interest, Vesper Lynd, to lure Bond into a trap and get back his money. The trap works, and Le Chiffre tortures Bond to get him to give up the money. He is interrupted by a SMERSH agent, however, who shoots him between the eyes with a silenced TT pistol as punishment for losing the money.\n\nLe Chiffre's death is seen by the Soviet government as an embarrassment, which in addition to the death and defeat of Mr. Big in \"Live and Let Die\", leads to the events of \"From Russia, with Love\".\n\n\nLe Chiffre is a secondary villain in the 1967 satire and appears in one of the few segments of the film actually adapted from Fleming's book. As in the novel, Le Chiffre is charged with recovering a large sum of money for SMERSH after he loses it at the baccarat table. He first attempts to raise the funds by holding an auction of embarrassing photographs of military and political leaders from China, the US and the USSR, but this is foiled by Sir James Bond's daughter, Mata Bond. With no other option, he returns to the baccarat table to try to win back the money. Later, he encounters baccarat Master Evelyn Tremble, who has been recruited by Bond to stop Le Chiffre from raising the money. Le Chiffre attempts to distract Tremble by performing elaborate magic tricks, but fails to prevent Tremble from winning. Afterwards, he arranges for Tremble to be kidnapped and subjects the agent to psychedelic torture in order to get back the money. The torture session is interrupted when his SMERSH masters, led by the film's main villain, Dr. Noah, shoot him dead.\n\nIn the 2006 film adaptation of \"Casino Royale\", Le Chiffre is portrayed by Danish actor Mads Mikkelsen. Believed by MI6 to be Albanian and officially stateless, Le Chiffre is a private banker who finances international terrorism. M implies that Le Chiffre conspired with al-Qaeda in orchestrating 9/11, or at least deliberately profiteered from the attacks by short selling large quantities of airline stocks beforehand. In the video game version of \"Quantum of Solace\", it is said that his birth name is \"Jean Duran\", in the MI6 mission briefings. A mathematical genius and a chess prodigy, his abilities enable him to earn large sums of money on games of chance and probabilities, and he likes to show off by playing poker. He suffers from haemolacria, which causes him to weep blood out of a damaged vessel in his left eye. As in Fleming's novel, he dresses in immaculate black suits and uses a Salbutamol inhaler, here plated with platinum.\n\nAt the start of the movie, Le Chiffre is contacted by Mr. White, a representative of an elite criminal organisation later revealed to be Quantum (and, later still, Spectre). White introduces Steven Obanno, a leader of the Lord's Resistance Army in Uganda, to Le Chiffre, and arranges to launder several briefcases of money for Obanno. Le Chiffre invests the money along with his other creditors' funds into the aircraft manufacturer SkyFleet. Though SkyFleet's shares have been skyrocketing in wake of a new aircraft they are rolling out, Le Chiffre plans to short the company by purchasing put options, and ordering the destruction of the company's new prototype airliner, set to make its first flight out of Miami International Airport. Bond intervenes and foils the plan by killing Le Chiffre's first contractor for the job, as well as the backup contractor Le Chiffre hires to take his place.\n\nThe failure of his scheme causes Le Chiffre to lose over $100 million. He sets up and enters a high-stakes Texas hold 'em tournament at Casino Royale in Montenegro in an attempt to recoup his losses before his clients find out that their money has been misappropriated and seek revenge against him. Bond is sent to make sure that Le Chiffre does not win back the money, hoping to force him to turn to MI6 for asylum in exchange for information on his creditors and employers. An accountant from HM Treasury, Vesper Lynd, is sent to accompany Bond to make sure the money is used properly.\n\nDuring the tournament, an irate Obanno and his lieutenant break into Le Chiffre's hotel room, restrain his girlfriend Valenka, and strangle him with a cord. Le Chiffre asks for, and is granted one last chance to win their money back. He offers not one word of objection to Obanno's feigned amputation of Valenka's arm, leading the ruthless warlord to advise her to find a new partner. As Obanno leaves the room, his bodyguard spots Bond and Vesper in the hallway, and hears Valenka's cries coming from Bond's earpiece. Bond kills the bodyguard by throwing him over a railing, then chokes Obanno to death with Vesper's assistance after relieving Obanno of his machete. Rene Mathis arranges the blame to be placed on Le Chiffre's bodyguard Leo by planting the bodies in the trunk of Leo's car.\n\nOn the second day of the tournament, Le Chiffre initially outwits and bankrupts Bond, who cannot get additional funding approved by Vesper. However, Felix Leiter, a CIA agent sent to participate in the game, also in hopes of bankrupting Le Chiffre, agrees to bankroll Bond, on the condition that CIA is allowed to take Le Chiffre in afterwards. Desperate, Le Chiffre has Valenka spike Bond's drink. Bond almost dies, but, thanks to an antitoxin kit in his car, a defibrillator, and Vesper's timely interference, he is revived at the last moment and returns to the game. During the final round, Le Chiffre's full house bests the hands of the two players preceding him, but loses to Bond's straight flush.\n\nLe Chiffre kidnaps Vesper, forcing Bond to give chase, and leads him straight into a trap. Le Chiffre leaves Vesper, bound at the feet and hands, in the middle of the road, and Bond is forced to swerve to avoid hitting her and crashes his car.\n\nSemiconscious, Bond is stripped naked and bound to a chair with the seat removed. Le Chiffre proceeds to whip Bond in the testicles repeatedly with the knotted end of a ship's lanyard, each time demanding the password for the account into which the tournament winnings will be transferred. Bond refuses to give in, telling him that no matter what torture he is subjected to, he will not give up the password and that Le Chiffre's clients will find and kill him. Bond also asserts that if Le Chiffre kills him, no hiding place will be safe. Le Chiffre counters that the information he can give to MI6 will be enough for them to grant him sanctuary even if he does kill Bond and Vesper. When Bond continues to defy him, Le Chiffre brandishes a knife and prepares to castrate him, only to be interrupted by the sound of gunfire outside. Mr. White enters the room with a pistol in hand, having just killed Valenka and Kratt; Le Chiffre pleads for his life and promises to recover the lost funds, but White rejects the offer and kills him. To date, he is the only main Bond villain to die before the film's final act.\n\nLe Chiffre is mentioned in the direct sequel, \"Quantum of Solace\" and is also seen in a background image inside MI6.\n\nIn \"Spectre\", it is revealed that he was an associate of the titular criminal organization and its leader, Ernst Stavro Blofeld. Blofeld states that Bond's interference in his world led him to destroy Bond's, and that it was no coincidence that all the women in his life ended up dead. The implication is that because Bond foiled Le Chiffre's short-selling scheme, Dominic Greene's Tierra Project, and Raoul Silva's cyber-attack on MI6, he indirectly caused the deaths of Vesper Lynd, Strawberry Fields, Sevérine, and M.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2058779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2058779", "title": "Risan", "text": "Risan\n\nRisan (, (Montenegrin and Serbian Cyrillic: Рисан) is a town in the Bay of Kotor, Montenegro. It traces its origins to the ancient settlement of Rhizon, the oldest settlement in the Bay of Kotor.\n\nLying in the innermost portion of the bay, the settlement was protected from the interior by inaccessible limestone cliffs of the Orjen mountain, the highest range of eastern Adriatic, and through several following narrow straits in the Bay of Kotor from the open sea.\n\nWhile the Krivošije karst plateau that hangs steep above the narrow shores of Risan bay receives over 5000 mm rain annually (European record), several strong karst springs that form a short brook collect in the narrow cultivable belt at Risan.\n\nThe earliest mention of Rhizon dates back to the 4th century BCE, as the main fortress in the Illyrian state where Queen Teuta took refuge during the Illyrian Wars. The degree of Hellenization at Rhizon was very high. In Roman times, Rhizinium is documented as an \"oppidum civium Romanorum\", and the most prosperous time for Roman \"Rhizinium\" came during the 1st and 2nd centuries, when huge villas were made in the area and the city had 10,000 inhabitants. Five mosaics are the most valuable remains of that period - not only for Risan but also for Montenegro.\nCirca 500 it became the see of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Risano. The invasions of the Avars and Slavs left the city deserted. The last reference of a Roman bishop in Risan dates back to 595.\n\nIn the 10th century, the Byzantine emperor Constantine Porphyrogenitus includes Risan among the inhabited towns of Travunia, while the priest of Doclea considers Rissena to be a district.\n\nDuring the Middle Ages, Risan lost the significance it used to have in the ancient times. No later than the 13th century, the Italians provided the bulk of a henceforward unbroken series of Latin Catholic Bishops of Risano until its suppression circa 1630. \nIn the mid-15th century, Risan was referred to as a town of Herceg Stjepan. In 1466, the Venetians offered to give Brač island and a palace in Split to Herceg Stjepan, in exchange for his two towns (Risan and Novi) in the Boka Kotorska.\nIn 1482, the Turks took Risan, together with Herceg Novi, from Herceg Stjepan's son Vlatko, using it as a base for its corsairs to pirate Venetian shipping sailing from their nearby holdings of Cattaro and Perasto.\n\nOnly in 1688 Risan became Venetian as part of the Albania Veneta with the Venetian name of \"Risano\", enjoying a temporary economic growth. In the following centuries Risan has had the same fate as the whole of Dalmatia. It was for a few years during World War II part of the Kingdom of Italy in the Italian Governatorate of Dalmatia and actually it is part of the newly independent Montenegro.\n\nAccording to the 1627 population census, Risan had 800 citizens. 570 were Muslims, 150 Orthodox and 80 Catholic.\n\nIn the present-day Risan, there are no elements that could connect it to the medieval town. Risan by the sea was probably just a settlement. However, on the Gradina hill, above the famous archeological site of Carine, a fortification is situated containing remains of an Illyrian acropolis, as well as the medieval and Turkish stratum. The position of the fortification was excellent, particularly for the control of Risan – Onogošt route, while the hilltop itself was inaccessible.\n\nToday Risan is a small port with roughly 2000 inhabitants (in 1900: around 5000 inhabitants; of them 80% Orthodox Christians, 20% Catholics) where logs from the vast virgin forests of the Bijela gora are shipped mostly to Italy. Risan is a tourist destination that has a hotel called after its most famous citizen, Queen Teuta, with accompanying fine beaches.\n\nRisan is in the northern section of the Municipality of Kotor\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2058781", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2058781", "title": "Tommy Hall", "text": "Tommy Hall\n\nTommy Hall may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2058794", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2058794", "title": "Kilconnell", "text": "Kilconnell\n\nKilconnell () is a small rural village in County Galway, Ireland. The village gives its name to the barony of Kilconnell, formerly held by the Lords de Freyne. There is also a peerage title, Baron Kilconnel, created in 1797, and later a subsidiary title of the Earls of Clancarty.\n\nIts rural population in 2011 was 670. The land is mainly used for dairy farming and the raising of cattle.\n\nIt was once part of the kingdom of the Soghain of Connacht before being conquered by the Uí Maine.\n\nThe last known prosecution of a priest under the Popery Acts was the trial in 1822 of Fr John O'Connor, parish priest of Aughrim and Kilconnell, at the Galway Summer Assizes. He was acquitted.\n\nThis village was the birthplace of Fianna Fáil Teachta Dála (TD) Johnny Callanan (1910–1982). His nephew Joe Callanan was also a TD for the Galway East constituency.\n\nKilconnell is the location of a Franciscan friary, founded in 1414, by William O'Kelly, Lord of Uí Maine, known locally as the \"Abbey\". Although in ruins it is maintained by the OPW. The abbey is the burial place for the O'Kelly sept, whose family crest can be seen on some of the headstones.\n\nThe Papal Nuncio Archbishop Giovanni Rinuccini stayed in the Abbey on 20 June 1648 on his way back from the Confederation at Kilkenny.\n\nThe abbey is believed to have been uninhabited since about 1785 due to a fall in vocations.\n\nThere is a passage that runs under the abbey to the grounds of Ballinderry house. It was excavated in the 1940s but was not navigated due to the risk of collapse.\n\nThe area around Kilconnell was the stronghold of the O'Kellys, lords of Uí Maine and the Donnellan clans.\n\nKilconnell is in the parish of Aughrim and Kilconnell. Aughrim was the site of a decisive battle of the Williamite wars in 1691. The French General the Marquis de St Ruth had rallied the Irish towards victory when his head was blown off by cannon fire and the Irish fled the field, only to be cut down in their thousands by the English forces. Hundreds of the O'Kellys lost their lives at this battle.\n\nThe local lake, Lough Acalla, has a crannog in the centre and is a rainbow trout fishery.\n\nBallinderry House, the former seat of the Comyn family, who are relations of Daniel O'Connell, has been restored and is now a guest house.\n\nThe local GAA team is called St. Gabriels. In 1979 they won a Galway football title. Since then they have won the Junior B championship and Junior A league. They won \"underage club of the year\" in 2011.\nSt Gabriels Ladies GAA football club plays Gaelic football and represents the parishes of Kilconnell, Aughrim, Kilreekil and Cappataggle. St Gabriels Ladies GAA Football Club plays its home games in Aughrim and it trains also in Kilconnell at the St Gabriels sports complex.\n\n"}
{"id": "2058798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2058798", "title": "Iowa Barnstormers", "text": "Iowa Barnstormers\n\nThe Iowa Barnstormers are a professional indoor football team based in Des Moines, Iowa. They are currently members of the Indoor Football League (IFL). They play their home games at Wells Fargo Arena, known in indoor football circles as \"The Well\".\n\nSeveral teams called the Iowa Barnstormers have played in different indoor football leagues since 1995. The original Arena Football League team played in Des Moines' Veterans Memorial Auditorium from 1995 to 2001, and subsequently relocated to Uniondale, New York, where they were known as the New York Dragons. Des Moines was awarded a franchise in the developmental AF2 league in 2001 that carried on the Barnstormers name and branding, but the team suspended operations after the end of the season. In 2008 a new Barnstormers team began play in the AF2, now based in the new Wells Fargo Arena; this team joined the new AFL in 2010 following the league's reorganization. For the 2015 season, the Barnstormers left the AFL and became members of the IFL.\n\nOn April 25, 1994, the Arena Football League approved an expansion team to be based in Des Moines, Iowa, to begin play in the 1995 season. The team was owned by Jim Foster, the inventor/creator of arena football, and the founder of the Arena Football League. On May 12, 1995, the Barnstormers played their first regular season game, on the road against the Milwaukee Mustangs. In a wild finish that saw both teams combine to score 24 points in the final 40.4 seconds of the fourth quarter, the Barnstormers won, 69–61. The next weekend, May 20, 1995, the Barnstormers played their first regular season home game against the Miami Hooters at Veterans Memorial Auditorium, winning 41–29.\n\nBehind the strength of AFL Coach of the Year John Gregory, the Barnstormers raced to a 3–0 start and secured the 5th seed for the playoffs. After upsetting defending ArenaBowl champion Arizona, 56–52, in their first playoff game, the Barnstormers fell, 56–49, to 6th-seeded Orlando in the semifinals.\n\nAfter an 0–1 start to their second season, the Barnstormers won their first Central Division title on the strength of eight consecutive wins to close the season. After edging St. Louis and Albany in the first two rounds of the playoffs, the top-seeded Barnstormers lost a 42–38 heartbreaker at home to second-seeded Tampa Bay in ArenaBowl X.\n\nIn 1997, the Barnstormers repeated as Central Division champions with an 11–3 record, including a 61–38 road thrashing of the rival Storm to avenge the previous season's ArenaBowl defeat. With the 2nd seed in the playoffs, the Barnstormers avenged a regular season defeat against 7th-seeded San Jose, 68–59, before racing past 4th-seeded Orlando 52–34 to reach the franchise's second ArenaBowl in three seasons. However, in ArenaBowl XI, Arizona used a 42–13 scoring stretch over the 2nd and 3rd Quarters to roll past Iowa, 55–33.\n\nStar offensive specialist Willis Jacox retired after the 1997 season, while star quarterback Kurt Warner signed with the St. Louis Rams of the National Football League (NFL). Forced to rebuild after losing the eventual two-time NFL MVP, the Barnstormers limped to an 0–5 start in 1998. After acquiring Aaron Garcia from New Jersey, the Barnstormers improved, with a three-game winning streak sparked by Garcia and rookie sensation Kevin Swayne, putting the Barnstormers in playoff contention late in the year. But, in the end, they faltered, finishing 5–9, their worst season of their years in Iowa.\n\nIn 1999, the Barnstomer resurgence under Garcia continued, with Iowa winning nine of their last ten regular season games (following a 2–2 start) to capture their third Central Division title in four seasons and secure the 2nd seed in the playoffs. A thrashing of division rival Milwaukee in the quarterfinals paired with 8th-seeded Orlando's 41–19 shocker at Tampa Bay set Iowa up at home against the 6th-seeded Predators with a chance to advance to another home ArenaBowl. However, Orlando continued its shocking run to ArenaBowl XIII with a 56–49 upset of the Barnstormers.\n\nThe 2000 Barnstormers put up startling offensive numbers, as Garcia threw for 92 touchdowns against just 8 interceptions, with 46 of the touchdowns going to Mike Horacek. Despite this prolific offense, Iowa started slowly, losing three of their first four games. However, a five-game winning streak return the Barnstormers to the thick of the playoff hunt. Iowa went on to win their fourth Central Division crown in six seasons of play, earning the 3rd seed in the newly expanded playoffs. However, Iowa's playoff run came to a quick end on a Sunday afternoon in the quarterfinals, as the 6th-seeded Nashville scored the final 14 points to defeat Iowa, 49–42. Historically, the Barnstormers have ranked high in home paid attendance. In the Arena Football League, they finished 7th in 1995, 8th in 1996, 9th in 1997, 8th in 1998, 9th in 1999, and 9th in 2000.\n\nThe need for a more modern venue as well as the league's desire for a larger market led to the move to New York City despite two failed past attempts in the city, the New York Knights (1988) and the New York CityHawks (1997–1998), both of which played at Madison Square Garden in Manhattan. The team was purchased by Charles Wang, who is also the Islanders' majority owner, and renamed the New York Dragons.\n\nAside from the league's desire to re-enter the New York market, another major reason cited for the team's relocation was the inadequacy of their Des Moines venue, the Iowa Veterans Memorial Auditorium, also known as \"The Barn\". Most of the seats in this venue were located directly along the sidelines as is typical of high school sports venues. The Barnstormers organization constantly lobbied for the construction of a better facility during their time in Des Moines to no avail.\n\nThe arena Football organization awarded an AF2 franchise to Iowa for the 2001 season, which continued the Barnstormer name. However, low attendance (less than half of the average of the AFL franchise) and a relatively poor season (a five-game winning streak to close the season wasn't able to turn a 4–7 start into a playoff berth) would lead to that franchise suspending operations following their first season.\n\nOn September 20, 2007, the AF2 announced that they had approved the inactive franchise's new ownership, meaning that the Barnstormers resumed play in 2008 at the Wells Fargo Arena. They hold practices at the historic Veterans Memorial Auditorium, and they inherited the tradition of the original Barnstormers. The team adopted the original unique uniforms, which in keeping with the aviation theme included the depiction of goggles on the helmets, wings on the shoulders of the jerseys, and propellers on the pants legs. The mascot, a dog named Ace, is featured in this helmet, along with the uniform jersey and pants.\n\nAfter being on hiatus for six seasons, the Barnstormers played their first regular season game of 2008, falling at the Louisville Fire 58–28 on March 29, 2008. The following week, they would return home for a Monday Night primetime match-up with the Lexington Horsemen on April 14, 2008. In the debut of Arena Football at the Wells Fargo Arena, the Barnstormers lost a close 43–41 contest. The next week, Iowa won their first regular season match-up since 2001 (their 75th overall), defeating the Quad City Steamwheelers 58–38 on April 19 in Moline, Illinois. The team would win their first home game at the Wells Fargo Arena on April 26, 2008, defeating the Stockton Lightning 47–24. During the 2008 season, the Barnstormers ranked 17th in average home paid attendance out of the 46 combined teams in the Arena Football League and AF2. In both 2008 and 2009, Iowa ranked second in AF2 attendance to the Spokane Shock, with attendances of 9,341 and 9,520, respectively.\n\nOn September 28, 2009, the Barnstormers announced their status as a charter member of the new Arena Football League, marking their return to playing top-notch arena football after almost a decade of lower levels and inactivity. A franchise-record 12,184 fans attended the 2010 opener; however, Iowa's first play from scrimmage resulted in an interception return for a touchdown by the Chicago Rush, an ominous harbinger of an eventual 7–9 season.\n\nOn July 27, 2014, Barnstormers president Jeff Lamberti told WHO-TV in Des Moines that the franchise will explore \"all options\" in the off-season of their continuance to play, including leaving the AFL and going to the Indoor Football League for 2015. The Barnstormers had not had a winning season since their revival as a top-level arena football team, mainly because of the difficulty in attracting top-ticket free agents to the AFL's smallest market.\n\nOn August 27, 2014, Lamberti announced that the Iowa Barnstormers had officially became members of the IFL and named former Barnstormers quarterback Joe Brannen to replace Mike Hohensee. The Barnstormers became the first team to directly leave the AFL for a new league, although previously the Austin Wranglers had been demoted from the AFL to the AFL's former minor league, af2. The Arkansas Twisters, Tri-Cities Fever, and Green Bay Blizzard were former af2 teams which jumped to the IFL.\n\n\"We are excited to bring the Barnstormers to the IFL\", said Lamberti. \"The chance to sign more local players, see more fans at road games, and create friendly rivalries with other teams of the Midwest are just a few of the opportunities that we look forward to.\" \n\nAFL commissioner Jerry Kurz released a statement regarding the Barnstormers departure from the AFL: \"We wish the Iowa Barnstormers all the best in their new endeavor. Their organization has been a part of the rich history of Arena Football for years now and will always be thought of fondly by those who love our sport.\" It was also noted that players currently under contract with the team were not obligated to remain with the club, essentially making them free agents.\n\nIFL commissioner Mike Allshouse commented: \"This is a monumental day in the history of the Indoor Football League. These are exciting times for the IFL as we continue to improve and expand our business model.\"\n\nTo adjust to their new league, the Barnstormers removed the word \"arena\" from their logo as they are no longer with the Arena Football League, yet will retain the history of their time with the AFL. They did use the rebound nets they owned from their AFL days in 2015, but under IFL rules, any ball that hits the netting is a dead ball. The rebound nets were taken down in 2016 and replaced by the standard indoor football goalposts with netting surrounding each end zone.\n\nOn July 11, 2016, Brannen was fired as the Barnstormers head coach. On August 24, 2016, Brannen was replaced by Dixie Wooten. Wooten had been serving as the offensive coordinator for the Cedar Rapids Titans. In his second year as head coach, Wooten led the Barnstormers to their first championship on July 7, 2018, over the Sioux Falls Storm 42–38 in the United Bowl.\n\nWhen the Barnstormers began playing in 1995, the team's logo consisted of a circular logo, which depicted a barnstorming airplane over the city of Des Moines. The logo was surrounded by a circular script reading, \"Arena Football Club\". The word \"Arena\" was removed when the team moved to the IFL. The circle logo also has wings on each side, with the words \"Iowa\" and \"Barnstormers\" on two lines above the circle logo. Below the logo was the words, \"Des Moines.\" The team's colors consisted of black, gold and cardinal. The three colors are a combination of the Iowa Hawkeyes black and gold, and the Iowa State Cyclones cardinal and gold.\n\nThe goggles on the team's helmet make the Barnstormers helmet one of the most recognized helmets in AFL history. In a 2008 Yahoo! article, the Barnstormers' helmet was ranked as the 8th best helmet in pro football history. Until 2012, the helmet was gold with black goggles; this was reversed beginning in the 2013 season.\n\nThe Barnstormers' original uniform designed consisted of a gold helmet, and either black or white jerseys with gold numbers on the black jerseys and black numbers on the white jersey with pilots' wings on the front of both. Gold pants were used with both jerseys. A side stripe on the pants was in the design of a propeller blade. Upon the club's return, the wings were removed from the jersey. Beginning in 2013, the team switched to black pants.\n\n<section begin=roster />\n<section end=roster />\n\nThe following Barnstormers players have been named to All-Arena Teams:\n\nThe following Barnstormers players have been named to All-IFL Teams:\n\n\"Note: Statistics are correct through the end of the 2019 Indoor Football League season.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2058800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2058800", "title": "Pelle Lindbergh", "text": "Pelle Lindbergh\n\nGöran Per-Eric \"Pelle\" Lindbergh (; May 24, 1959 – November 11, 1985) was a Swedish professional ice hockey goaltender who played parts of five seasons in the National Hockey League (NHL) for the Philadelphia Flyers. Lindbergh died at age 26 in a single-car accident five months after leading the Flyers to the 1985 Stanley Cup Finals and winning the Vezina Trophy as the NHL's top goaltender.\n\nHaving gained fame while playing for Hammarby in his youth, and while making his debut in the highest Swedish hockey league with AIK (Stockholm) leading him to the Swedish national team in the 1980 Winter Olympics, Lindbergh set his sights on the North American game. Lindbergh owns the distinction of being the goaltender on the only team that did not lose to the gold-medal-winning Team USA at the 1980 Olympics, as Team Sweden and Team USA played to a 2–2 tie in the first game of the tournament. Team Sweden would go on to win the bronze medal. After being drafted by the Philadelphia Flyers in the 1979 NHL Entry Draft (second round, 35th overall), he started his North American career during the 1980–81 season by playing one and a half seasons for the Maine Mariners of the American Hockey League (AHL) before playing his first games for the Flyers in 1982. In 1983, he was named goaltender of the NHL All-Rookie Team. He led the National Hockey League (NHL) with 40 wins, and games played with 65, he was second in both shutouts (2) and save percentage (.899), and was third in goals against average (3.02) during the 1984–85 season and won the Vezina Trophy, becoming the first European goaltender to do so in NHL history. That same year, he was also named a First Team All-Star. In his final game on November 7, 1985 he made 18 saves in leading the Philadelphia Flyers to 6-2 win over the Chicago Blackhawks. As irony would have it that would also be Lindbergh's final season record 6-2. Lindbergh was the first goalie to bring a water bottle on ice with him during NHL games. Lindbergh did this to combat severe dehydration he commonly suffered from. This practice first drew criticism from opponents and coaches alike, but is now the norm for NHL goaltenders.\n\nIn the early morning hours of Sunday, November 10, 1985, Lindbergh lost control of his customized Porsche 930 Turbo and struck a wall in front of a Somerdale, New Jersey elementary school, critically injuring himself and severely injuring his two passengers. Although declared brain dead a few hours later, he was kept on life support until his father arrived from Sweden late the next day and his parents gave their permission to terminate treatment. He died on Monday, November 11 after a five-hour operation to harvest his heart and other organs for transplant. At the time of the accident he had just left the Coliseum, the former practice center for the Flyers located in Voorhees Township, New Jersey, where he was attending a team party. He was intoxicated at the time of the accident, with a blood alcohol level of 0.24, well above New Jersey's legal limit (0.10) at that time. Lindbergh topped the fan voting for the 1986 NHL All-Star Game. It would mark the first time that a player was chosen posthumously for an all-star team in a major North American team sport. Sean Taylor's selection to the 2008 Pro Bowl was the only other time this has happened. Although his number 31 was never officially retired by the Flyers, no Flyer has worn the number 31 since Lindbergh's death. Lindbergh is buried in Skogskyrkogården, a cemetery in southern Stockholm.\n\nPelle Circle, a residential street in Far Northeast Philadelphia, was named in his honor when it was constructed in 1986.\n\nIn 2006, a Swedish biography entitled \"Pelle Lindbergh: Behind the White Mask\" was written by Swedish author Thomas Tynander. An English version was published in fall 2009. The English version was translated by Bill Meltzer and published by Middle Atlantic Press.\n\n\nThe Philadelphia Flyers named a team award, the Pelle Lindbergh Memorial Trophy, in his honor. Since the 1993–94 season it has been annually awarded to the most improved player on the team.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2058805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2058805", "title": "Ostwald (crater)", "text": "Ostwald (crater)\n\nOstwald is a lunar impact crater on the far side of the Moon. It lies just to the east of the crater Guyot, and near the northern border of Ibn Firnas. Recht lies along its eastern rim.\n\nThis is a worn and eroded crater formation with an irregular rim and inner wall due to multiple small impacts. A brief crater chain forms a cleft in the western inner face. The interior is somewhat more level, but is pock-marked by a multitude of tiny craterlets. There are some low central ridges to the south and northeast of the midpoint.\n\nThe crater is named after German chemist and Nobel laureate Wilhelm Ostwald. Prior to naming in 1970 by the IAU, this crater was known as \"Crater 212\".\n\nBy convention these features are identified on lunar maps by placing the letter on the side of the crater midpoint that is closest to Ostwald.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2058807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2058807", "title": "1,2-Dichloroethane", "text": "1,2-Dichloroethane\n\nThe chemical compound 1,2-dichloroethane, commonly known as ethylene dichloride (EDC), is a chlorinated hydrocarbon. It is a colourless liquid with a chloroform-like odour. The most common use of 1,2-dichloroethane is in the production of vinyl chloride, which is used to make polyvinyl chloride (PVC) pipes, furniture and automobile upholstery, wall coverings, housewares, and automobile parts. 1,2-Dichloroethane is also used generally as an intermediate for other organic chemical compounds, and as a solvent. It forms azeotropes with many other solvents, including water (at a boiling point of ) and other chlorocarbons.\n\nIn 1794, physician Jan Rudolph Deiman, merchant Adriaan Paets van Troostwijk, chemist Anthoni Lauwerenburg, and botanist Nicolaas Bondt, under the name of Society of Dutch Chemists (), were the first to produce 1,2-dichloroethane from olefiant gas (oil-making gas, ethylene) and chlorine gas. Although the \"Gezelschap\" in practice did not do much in-depth scientific research, they and their publications were highly regarded. Part of that acknowledgement is that 1,2-dichloroethane was called \"Dutch oil\" in old chemistry. This is also the origin of the archaic term \"olefiant gas\" (oil-making gas) for ethylene, for in this reaction it is ethylene that makes the Dutch oil. And \"olefiant gas\" is the etymological origin of the modern term \"olefins\", the family of hydrocarbons of which ethylene is the first member.\n\nNearly 20 million tons of 1,2-dichloroethane are produced in the United States, Western Europe, and Japan. Production is primarily achieved through the iron(III) chloride-catalysed reaction of ethylene and chlorine:\n\n1,2-dichloroethane is also generated by the copper(II) chloride-catalysed oxychlorination of ethylene:\n\nIn principle, it can be prepared by the chlorination of ethane and, less directly, from ethanol.\n\nApproximately 95% of the world's production of 1,2-dichloroethane is used in the production of vinyl chloride monomer (VCM, chloroethene) with hydrogen chloride as a byproduct. VCM is the precursor to polyvinyl chloride.\nThe hydrogen chloride can be re-used in the production of more 1,2-dichloroethane via the oxychlorination route described above.\nAs a good polar aprotic solvent, 1,2-dichloroethane could be used as degreaser and paint remover but is now banned from use due to its toxicity and possible carcinogenity. As a useful 'building block' reagent, it is used as an intermediate in the production of various organic compounds such as ethylenediamine. In the laboratory it is occasionally used as a source of chlorine, with elimination of ethene and chloride.\n\nVia several steps, 1,2-dichloroethane is a precursor to 1,1,1-trichloroethane, which is used in dry cleaning. Historically, 1,2-dichloroethane was used as an anti-knock additive in leaded fuels to scavenge lead from cylinders and valves preventing buildup .\n\n1,2-Dichloroethane is toxic (especially by inhalation due to its high vapour pressure), highly flammable, and possibly carcinogenic. Its high solubility and 50-year half-life in anoxic aquifers make it a perennial pollutant and health risk that is very expensive to treat conventionally, requiring a method of bioremediation. While the chemical is not used in consumer products manufactured in the U.S., a case was reported in 2009 of molded plastic consumer products (toys and holiday decorations) from China that released 1,2-dichloroethane into homes at levels high enough to produce cancer risk.\nSubstitutes are recommended and will vary according to application. Dioxolane and toluene are possible substitutes as solvents. Dichloroethane is unstable in the presence of aluminium metal and, when moist, with zinc and iron.\n\n"}
{"id": "2058809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2058809", "title": "Serdar Bilgili", "text": "Serdar Bilgili\n\nSerdar Bilgili (born 1963) is a businessman who served as the president of the Istanbul-based football club Beşiktaş J.K..\n\nBorn in Istanbul, after graduating from Robert College, he completed his earned a degree in business at Redlands University, California Business and Photography. He is the Chairman of the Board of Directors of Bilgili Holding, which conducts investment and development activities in real estate and tourism. Serdar Bilgili knowledgeable, is also the founder of the BLG Capital, which is focused on investing in real estate in Turkey and America. The priority of BLG in its investments is tourism, housing and mixed-use projects in Istanbul. Between 1992-1998, he was the Secretary General of Beşiktaş Sports Club and a Member of the Board of Directors. Between 2000-2004, he was the president of Beşiktaş Sports Club. During this period, BJK was offered to the public and became the first football club to be traded in the ISE. He opened two photography exhibitions in the USA. His works, which took place in the photo exhibition \"Despite the Barriers ...\", which he opened in Istanbul in 2007, were collected in the book published with the same title in January 2008. The \"Nişantaşı Portraits\" open-air photography exhibition, consisting of black and white portraits of Nişantaşı's landmarks, took place on the exterior of the VK108 residence project developed by Bilgili on Valikonağı Street in August and September 2018.\n\nSerdar Bilgili's management career in Beşiktaş started in 1992 with his election to the Beşiktaş Board of Directors. Serdar Bilgili, who served on the Beşiktaş Board of Directors under the direction of Süleyman Seba, between 1992 and 1998, worked as the Secretary General and Press Spokesperson during this time.\nIn the elections held on March 26, 2000, Beşiktaş President was elected and he appointed Nevio Scala. On March 31, 2002, a record number of members voted for, and was elected to the Beşiktaş Gymnastics Club Presidency, taking 7,383 of the current games of 3,363.\nIn the second half of the 2003-04 season of the Super League, Beşiktaş's heavy points losses caused reactions and resigned in 2004.\n\nIn 2008, he received the Istanbul Tourism Award with the Akaretler Project.\n\nIn 2009, he received the award of the Urban Land Institute (ULI) in London with Akaretler Row Houses, the second largest restoration project of Europe.\n"}
{"id": "2058812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2058812", "title": "Wolfhart Pannenberg", "text": "Wolfhart Pannenberg\n\nWolfhart Pannenberg (2 October 1928 – 4 September 2014) was a German Lutheran theologian. He has made a number of significant contributions to modern theology, including his concept of history as a form of revelation centered on the resurrection of Christ, which has been widely debated in both Protestant and Catholic theology, as well as by non-Christian thinkers.\n\nPannenberg was born on 2 October 1928 in Stettin, Germany, now Szczecin, Poland. He was baptized as an infant into the Evangelical (Lutheran) Church, but otherwise had virtually no contact with the church in his early years. At about the age of sixteen, however, he had an intensely religious experience he later called his \"light experience\". Seeking to understand this experience, he began to search through the works of great philosophers and religious thinkers. A high school literature teacher who had been a part of the Confessing Church during the Second World War encouraged him to take a hard look at Christianity, which resulted in Pannenberg's \"intellectual conversion\", in which he concluded that Christianity was the best available religious option. This propelled him into his vocation as a theologian.\n\nPannenberg studied in Berlin, Göttingen, Heidelberg, and Basel. In Basel, Pannenberg studied under Karl Barth. His doctoral thesis at Heidelberg was on Edmund Schlink's views on predestination in the works of Duns Scotus, which he submitted in 1953 and published a year later. His \"Habilitationsschrift\" in 1955 dealt with the relationship between analogy and revelation, especially the concept of analogy in the teaching of God's knowledge.\n\nPannenberg's epistemology, explained clearly in his shorter essays, is crucial to his theological project. It is heavily influenced by Schlink, who proposed a distinction between analogical truth, i.e. a descriptive truth or model, and doxological truth, or truth as immanent in worship. In this way of thinking, theology tries to express doxological truth. As such it is a response to God's self-revelation. Schlink was also instrumental in shaping Pannenberg's approach to theology as an ecumenical enterprise – an emphasis which has remained constant throughout his career.\n\nPannenberg's understanding of revelation is strongly conditioned by his reading of Karl Barth and Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel, as well as by a sympathetic reading of Christian and Jewish apocalyptic literature. The Hegelian concept of history as an unfolding process in which Spirit and freedom are revealed combines with a Barthian notion of revelation occurring \"vertically from above\". While Pannenberg adopts a Hegelian understanding of History itself as God's self-revelation, he strongly asserts the resurrection of Christ as a proleptic revelation of what history is unfolding. Despite its obvious Barthian reference, this approach met with a mainly hostile response from both neo-orthodox and liberal, Bultmannian theologians in the 1960s, a response which Pannenberg claims surprised him and his associates. A more nuanced, mainly implied, critique came from Jürgen Moltmann, whose philosophical roots lay in the Left Hegelians, Karl Marx and Ernst Bloch, and who proposed and elaborated a Theology of Hope, rather than of prolepsis, as a distinctively Christian response to History.\n\nAs disciple of Karl Löwith, Pannenberg has continued the debate against Hans Blumenberg in the so-called 'theorem of secularization'. \"Blumenberg targets Löwith's argument that progress is the secularization of Hebrew and Christian beliefs and argues to the contrary that the modern age, including its belief in progress, grew out of a new secular self-affirmation of culture against the Christian tradition.\"\n\nPannenberg is perhaps best known for \"Jesus: God and Man\" in which he constructs a Christology \"from below\", deriving his dogmatic claims from a critical examination of the life and particularly the resurrection of Jesus of Nazareth. This is his programmatic statement of the notion of \"History as Revelation\". He rejects traditional Chalcedonian \"two-natures\" Christology, preferring to view the person of Christ dynamically in light of the resurrection. This focus on the resurrection as the key to Christ's identity has led Pannenberg to defend its historicity, stressing the experience of the risen Christ in the history of the early Church rather than the empty tomb.\n\nCentral to Pannenberg's theological career was his defence of theology as a rigorous academic discipline, one capable of critical interaction with philosophy, history, and most of all, the natural sciences. Pannenberg has also defended the theology of American mathematical physicist Frank J. Tipler's Omega Point Theory.\n\nPannenberg was an outspoken critic of the approval of homosexual relations by the Evangelical Church in Germany, going so far as to say that a church which approves of homosexual practice is no longer a true church. He returned his Federal Order of Merit after the decoration was awarded to a lesbian activist.\n\nPannenberg was a professor on the faculties of several universities consistently, after 1958. Between the years of 1958 and 1961 he was the Professor of Systematic Theology at the . Between 1961 and 1968 he was a professor in Mainz. He has had several visiting professorships at the University of Chicago (1963), Harvard (1966), and at the Claremont School of Theology (1967), and since 1968 had been Professor of Systematic Theology at the University of Munich. He retired in 1993, and died at age 85 in 2014.\n\nThroughout his career Pannenberg remained a prolific writer. As of December 2008, his \"publication page\" on the University of Munich's website lists 645 academic publications to his name.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2058820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2058820", "title": "Hypernauts", "text": "Hypernauts\n\nHypernauts is a proof of concept show produced by Foundation Imaging and Netter Digital Entertainment. To further prove that the computer-generated imagery and visual effects created in \"Babylon 5\" were easily applied to other venues, the Hypernauts were born. ABC purchased thirteen episodes of the show from DIC Productions L.P., eight of which ran on Saturday mornings for a single season in 1996 at 10:00 AM. ABC decided not to pick up the series for a second season, and did not air the five remaining episodes. The show was created and produced by Ron Thornton and Douglas Netter, its executive story editor was Christy Marx who also wrote four episodes. Marx had previously written for both Babylon 5 and Captain Power. Another series writer was Katherine Lawrence who was nominated for a Writers Guild of America Award due to her script for \"Ice Bound\".\n\nDue to its lineage, Hypernauts featured relatively detailed designs of its technology and its aliens, as well as a fairly intricate plot; especially for a Saturday morning children's series. The premise of the series was that three cadets from the Academy of Galactic Exploration become lost in a Hyper Bubble (hyperspace) mid-jump and must band together with an alien named Kulai in order to survive in an unfamiliar part of the galaxy. Kulai (unbeknownst to the cadets) is a Chalim priestess from a planet called Pyria, a planet that was strip-mined by a warlike race called the Triiad, led by the Pyran traitor, Paiyin. The sole purpose of the Triiad is to wipe out intelligent races, and in the process acquire raw materials from their destroyed planets to continually create new war machines using automated self-replicating factory ships called \"Makers.\"\n\nThe Hypernauts, as they are called in the academy, cannot match the Triiad's firepower with their own so they must rely on stealth, wits and (occasionally) their modified 'mech suits' in order to escape the Triiad. They are based in an ancient abandoned exploration ship called the Star Ranger which is hidden in an asteroid field, the Star Ranger's obsolete AI is named Horten. For long range missions they use a four-person \"jump\" ship called the Flapjack which is \"Hyper Bubble\" capable but has a short range unlike a full-fledged exploration ship. They use the \"StarRanger\" as a mother ship (with fusion engines) and with its vast database of explored nearby planets, they continue exploring (as they are trained to).\n\nAfter learning of the Hypernauts (from their first encounter with Paiyin), the Triiad have activated and englobed the central region of the Milky Way Galaxy in a sensor net called \"The Sphere of Interception,\" which can identify any end-to-end destination point for any hyperspace jump passing in and out of it (which includes any form of communication) so returning/calling home would lead the Triiad directly to Earth. The Hypernauts must keep the location of Earth a secret and somehow try to warn Earth of the Triiad's existence.\nRussell 'Ace' Antonov (Glenn Herman) the team's \"ace' pilot joined Max and Sharkey on the discipline mission as a punishment for using the \"Academy of Galactic Exploration's\" sim trainer to play war games. Ace pilots the team's shuttle known as the \"Flapjack\" on excursions away from the Star Ranger, he's also the team's best mech pilot.\n\nNoriko 'Max' Matsuda (Heidi Lucas) the team medic, was sent on the disciplinary mission that stranded the three Hypernauts because of unauthorized calls to her sister. Legally separated from her family to join the Academy, Max joined the Academy in defiance of the wishes and beliefs of her people, the isolationist and xenophobic Caduceus Enclave.\n\nRicardo 'Sharkey' Alvarez (Marc Brandon Daniel) the team's engineer and computer technician, was placed on the disciplinary mission after hacking into the Academy's mainframe. As a child, Sharkey was injured in an accident that killed his parents. Unresolved trauma from this incident led to Sharkey's claustrophobia.\n\nA three legged alien found on a planet decimated by the Triiad and kept as a pet on board the Star Ranger.\n\nHorten (Lewis Arquette) is the Star Ranger's discrete AI. He is used to control and monitor the systems of the ship.\n\nKulai (Carrie Dobro) is the last Chalim (spiritual leader) from Pyrus. She joined the Hypernauts as a friend and mentor due to the help they provided in the conflict with Paiyin. The average Pyran lives about 300 years. Kulai is 342 and has an extended lifespan which is a part of the unique abilities with which she was born and which make her a Chalim, so she will probably live another 200 years. Pyrans share a common psychic bond, a sense of shared existence. The presence of a Chalim generates a critical element of the bond which keeps the race strong, healthy and able to procreate. Without a Chalim, the Pyran race would lack a crucial psychic catalyst. No matter where she is, Kulai can sense whether or not her people continue to exist, and they, to a lesser degree, can sense her existence.\n\nPaiyin (Ron Campbell) was decreed a traitor after he betrayed his people to the Triiad, and facilitated the destruction of his own homeworld. He now serves the Triiad.\n\nThe following is a complete list of episode titles for \"Hypernauts\", in original broadcast order. The broadcasts aired on successive Saturday mornings on ABC. Episode descriptions courtesy of \"Hypernauts On the Net\" and \"Christy Marx.com\".\n\nReunion, Hole in the Sky, New Alliances, and the Challenge parts one and two never aired in the United States, but were available on various media in Australia, Japan and Germany. In Japan \"Hypernauts\" was released as \"Voyager\" on VHS.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2058825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2058825", "title": "Psalms 152–155", "text": "Psalms 152–155\n\nPsalms 152 to 155 are additional Psalms found in two Syriac biblical manuscripts to date and several manuscripts of Elias of al-Anbar's \"Book of Discipline\". Together with Psalm 151 they are also called the Five Apocryphal Psalms of David.\n\n\"\"Spoken by David when he was contending with the lion and the wolf which took a sheep from his flock.\". This text survived only in Syriac and the original language may be Hebrew. The tone is non-rabbinical and it was probably composed in Israel during the Hellenistic period (c. 323–31 BCE).\n\n\"\"Spoken by David when returning thanks to God, who had delivered him from the lion and the wolf and he had slain both of them.\"\" This text survived only in Syriac. Date and provenance are like Psalm 152.\n\nThis Psalm survived in Syriac biblical manuscripts and also was found in Hebrew, in the Dead Sea scroll 11QPs(a)154 (also known as \"11Q5\" - The Great Psalms Scroll), a first-century CE manuscript. The main theme is the request to \"\"join yourselves to the good and to the perfect, to glorify the Most High\"\". There is also a hint of common meals, typical of Essenes: \"\"And in their eating shall be satisfying in truth, and in their drinking, when they share together\"'.\n\nThis psalm is extant in Syriac and was also found in the Dead Sea Scroll 11QPs(a)155 (also called \"11Q5\" - The Great Psalms Scroll), a first-century CE Hebrew manuscript. The theme of this psalm is similar to Psalm 22, and due to the lack of peculiarities it is impossible to suggest date and origin, save that its origin is clearly pre-Christian.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2058826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2058826", "title": "Lawrencetown, County Galway", "text": "Lawrencetown, County Galway\n\nLawrencetown or Laurencetown ( or simply \"Baile Mór\"), historically called \"Ballymore\", is a village in County Galway, Ireland. It lies on the R355 regional road nine miles south of Ballinasloe . It is named after the 'Lawrence' family. Facilities in Lawrencetown include the community hall, St. Mary's church, the national school, two pubs and a shop.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2058829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2058829", "title": "Clara's Heart", "text": "Clara's Heart\n\nClara's Heart is a 1988 American drama film, based on Joseph Olshan's novel of the same name, directed by Robert Mulligan, written by Mark Medoff and is also Neil Patrick Harris' debut role.\n\nThe film tells the story of a family in crisis. The mother, Leona (Quinlan), escapes to Jamaica to grieve the loss of her baby daughter, Edith, who died of sudden infant death syndrome. While there she meets kindly housekeeper Clara Mayfield (Goldberg). Clara pulls Leona out of her depression with a blunt, no-nonsense style. Leona is so taken with her that she brings Clara back to their home in Baltimore to be housekeeper and nanny to young son David (Harris). At first he is resistant and sees her as an intruder, but as the parents are completely wrapped up in their own grief and dissolving marriage, David comes to trust Clara and to depend on her. Clara harbors her own dark secret, which when revealed, serves to firm the bond between these two very different, but loving, characters.\n\n\nThe film marked a return to the director's chair for industry veteran Robert Mulligan, who had not made a film in six years after the critical and commercial failure of \"Kiss Me Goodbye\". Film editor Sid Levin describes Mulligan as being \"a bit aloof\" during their first meeting but coming across as \"a caring, sensitive, decent man.\" Mulligan was tense during the shooting period, however, and grew angry when Levin expressed his concerns over the scenes involving actor Spalding Gray. Not until principal photography was finished was Mulligan willing to discuss alternative ideas with Levin in the editing room. They wound up finding common ground over one of the crucial scenes towards the end of the film, in which Clara confesses to David the truth about her son. When Mulligan realized that actress Whoopi Goldberg had improvised the sequence too negatively, Levin was able to edit the sequence in such a way to make it feel less dark. \n\nFilming included several locations in Talbot County, Maryland. The opening scene, a funeral, was filmed at the historic Oxford Cemetery in Oxford, Maryland. The mansion home of Bill (Michael Ontkean) and Leona Hart (Kathleen Quinlan), and her young son, David (Neil Patrick Harris) is found on Old Country Club Road, adjacent to Maryland State Route 33 near Easton, Maryland. Other locations included Saint Michaels, Maryland, Baltimore, Maryland, New York and Port Antonio, Jamaica. \n\nThis was the third and final theatrical production made by MTM Enterprises.\n\nThe film had a chilly reception with critics. Roger Ebert, In a 1 1/2-star review for the \"Chicago Sun Times\", praised Whoopi Goldberg's performance but panned the film itself, writing, \"Goldberg is magnificent. The character belongs in a different film, even a different universe, from the rest of the ludicrous plot.\" Recent praise for the film has appeared in an online article by film professor Robert Keser, who writes, \"Almost two decades after the release of \"Clara’s Heart\", the film looks dated only in its virtues. As commercial cinema, it represents a classical control and modulation of storytelling, spinning its emotional threads patiently with no hammering close-ups and little pandering to the decoratively picturesque. Equally, the film seems sweetly unconscious of consumer culture that seeks to define us by acquisition and consumption: no brand names are touted, no recreational shopping montages display products to suggest meaning.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2058832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2058832", "title": "Eamon Bulfin", "text": "Eamon Bulfin\n\nEamon Bulfin (1892–1968) was an Argentine-born Irish republican. He was the son of writer William Bulfin (1864–1910) of Birr, in County Offaly (then called King's County). His father had emigrated to Argentina at the age of 20 and was a writer and journalist who became the editor/proprietor of \"The Southern Cross\". \n\nBulfin was a pupil at Patrick Pearse's school, Sgoil Éanna (in English, St Enda's), and studied at University College Dublin, where he became captain of the Irish Volunteer Company. One of Pearse's favourite pupils, he assisted with teaching after he graduated. He was recruited to the Irish Republican Brotherhood in 1913, and along with some fellow St Enda's students created home-made bombs in the school's basement in preparation for the Easter Rising.\n\nIn the Easter Rising of 1916, he raised the green flag with the words \"Irish Republic\" painted onto it over the General Post Office (GPO) in Dublin, the headquarters of the rebellion. Following the insurrection he was condemned to death, but was reprieved and deported to Buenos Aires after internment in Frongoch internment camp in Wales along with the other Irish soldiers of the Rising.\n\nÉamon de Valera made Bulfin Irish Representative to Argentina. De Valera described Bulfin's job as to \"inaugurate direct trade between Ireland and the Argentine Republic… to co-ordinate Irish opinion in the Argentine, and to bring it into the Irish demand for a republic.\" While carrying out these duties, Bulfin maintained a close line of communication with Michael Collins in Ireland.\n\nBulfin was one of several representatives abroad appointed for that purpose during the War of Independence, and recognition of the importance of their work led to the establishment in February 1921 of a Department of Foreign Affairs.\nIn the 1920 County Council elections, Bulfin was nominated in his absence for a seat on the council of Offaly, his family's county of origin. He was elected and though he was in Argentina, immediately appointed chairman of the council. One of the first actions of the new council was to agree that King's County be renamed Offaly, the name of the ancient Gaelic kingdom from which part of the modern county was formed. \n\nOn the formation of the Irish Free State, Bulfin returned to Ireland, and became active in local politics.\n\nHis sister Catalina (1901–1976) was secretary to Austin Stack. Catalina Bulfin married the Nobel Prize winner Seán MacBride, a founding member of Amnesty International, the son of son of Major John MacBride and Maud Gonne.\n\nBulfin died on Christmas Eve 1968, and is buried in Eglish churchyard near Birr, Co Offaly.\n\nBulfin Road in Inchicore, Dublin 8 is named after him.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2058833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2058833", "title": "Gary Thorne", "text": "Gary Thorne\n\nGary F. Thorne (born June 9, 1948) is an American sports executive. He is the lead play-by-play announcer for Baltimore Orioles games on MASN. He has also worked for ESPN and ABC, including National Hockey League, Major League Baseball, college football, and the Frozen Four hockey tournament. He also works for World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE), where he is the narrator for the \"WrestleMania Rewind\" program on its WWE Network streaming video service.\n\nAfter graduating from the University of Maine in 1970, University of Maine School of Law in 1973, and Georgetown Law School in 1976 (while paying tuition as a sportscaster/disc jockey), Thorne became Penobscot County assistant district attorney and joined the bar of the U.S. Supreme Court. Thorne eventually found courtrooms dull compared to broadcasting.\n\nThorne's son-in-law, Damian DiGiulian, is a former assistant coach for the University of Vermont hockey team; Maine (Thorne's alma mater) and Vermont are rivals in the Hockey East conference of Division I hockey. DiGiulian is now a color commentator for ESPNU's college hockey broadcasts.\n\nIn , Thorne began a four-year stint as a radio announcer for the New York Mets. Thorne was present in the booth at Shea Stadium, along with Bob Murphy, for the now-famous sixth game of the 1986 World Series between the Mets and Boston Red Sox. Thorne was one of the first to criticize the Red Sox for leaving ill-fated Red Sox first baseman Bill Buckner in the 10th inning of the game over Dave Stapleton.\n\nHe has been the play-by-play TV announcer for the Mid-Atlantic Sports Network's Baltimore Orioles games since 2007. He is known for his signature calls of \"\"Goodbye! Home run!\"\" and \"\"Mercy!\"\" He prefers to use \"two-RBI home run\" and \"three-RBI home run\" rather than the more standard \"two-run home run\" and \"three-run homer\" phrases, despite the fact that the Orioles are famous for Earl Weaver's praise of \"pitching, defense and three-run homers\" as a recipe for success. Thorne closes his Orioles broadcasts with \"Adieu\" if the Orioles lose or \"Adieu-Adieu\" if they win.\n\nIn , Thorne was named a backup play-by-play announcer (behind Al Michaels and replacing Gary Bender in this particular capacity) for ABC's coverage of \"Thursday Night Baseball\" telecasts with Joe Morgan. Thorne also served as a field reporter for the World Series and covered the World Series Trophy presentation for ABC. Like his ABC Sports colleagues, Al Michaels, Jim Palmer, Tim McCarver, and Joe Morgan, Thorne was at San Francisco's Candlestick Park when the infamous Loma Prieta earthquake hit on October 17, .\n\nIn , Thorne called the first two games of the American League Division Series between the New York Yankees and Seattle Mariners on NBC/The Baseball Network with Tommy Hutton.\n\nFrom until , Gary Thorne served as the play-by-play man for the World Series on Armed Forces Radio/Major League Baseball International-TV.\n\nIn , Thorne was named the lead play-by-play announcer for ESPN Radio's \"Sunday Night Baseball\" coverage. He teamed with color commentator Dave Campbell to call a majority of the network's \"Sunday Night\" games, although occasionally other commitments would cause him to miss a broadcast, with other ESPN announcers (such as Dan Shulman, who preceded Thorne as the primary Sunday night voice) filling in for him that week. Thorne has also worked on one of ESPN Radio's postseason Division Series crews each year, and (as previously mentioned) called the 2008 All-Star Game for non-U.S. viewers via MLB International television.\n\nThorne officially replaced Dave O'Brien on the MLB International broadcasts of the All-Star Game, ALCS (even-numbered years), NLCS (odd-numbered years), and the World Series from 2010-2014 alongside Rick Sutcliffe. Thorne and Sutcliffe were replaced in 2015 by the #2 Fox broadcast team of Matt Vasgersian and John Smoltz.\n\nThorne's voice is heard in Pepsi commercials featuring New York Yankees' Johnny Damon, the Minnesota Twins' Joe Mauer and MLB umpire Laz Díaz. In addition, he announces various games of the College World Series every year during the month of June. He also is a play-by-play TV announcer for the Little League World Series on ESPN during the month of August. Thorne is also the play-by-play announcer of the video game \"Major League Baseball 2K9\", \"Major League Baseball 2K10\", \"Major League Baseball 2K11\", \"Major League Baseball 2K12\", and \"Major League Baseball 2K13\".\n\nFrom 2011 until 2016, Thorne served as master of ceremonies for the National Baseball Hall of Fame's induction ceremonies.\n\nIn 1977, Thorne called hockey games for Augusta, Maine radio and television stations. Thorne rose to prominence in Maine broadcasting, when he began calling play-by-play for the University of Maine's hockey games for Bangor radio station WABI. As the voice of the Black Bears, he quickly became one of the most recognizable radio voices in the state.\n\nThorne was asked to call Maine hockey games during winter months until 1987 (simultaneously with his work for the Mets in the summer from 1985) when the lure of doing play-by-play in the NHL became too strong for Thorne to ignore. From 1987–1993, Thorne served as the play-by-play voice of the New Jersey Devils of the NHL (before being replaced by Mike Emrick) on SportsChannel New York. Thorne missed several Mets games in the 1988 season due to Devils playoff games. He was replaced after that Mets season by Gary Cohen. Thorne spent the following season with the Chicago White Sox. Thorne is most notable for announcing on the \"NHL on ESPN\". Thorne called the Stanley Cup Finals for ESPN from 1993–2004\n\nIn March of 2014, Thorne called several high school games in the Class AA Minnesota State High School League boys hockey tournament for local independent TV station KSTC-TV. When interviewed by The New York Times, Thorne expressed his enjoyment for being asked to announce. \"It’s a great event, and I thought it would be great fun. I think that’s the word I used most often in the last three days, fun, because that’s how I think of this. It’s a wonderful event. It’s great to see the kids play. It’s great hockey. The talent level is extremely high. It’s an event with a capital E. And it’s great to be a part of it.\"\n\nDuring the 2016-17 NHL season, Thorne called 8 NHL away games for the Los Angeles Kings, filling in for Bob Miller, who abstained from all of the Kings' longer travels east after missing the latter part of the 2015-16 season due to health issues. (In addition to Thorne, Ralph Strangis was also used as a substitute, and Chris Cuthbert and Jiggs McDonald are scheduled to substitute later in the season.)\n\nFrom 1992 to 2004, he called NHL play-by-play for games on ESPN, ESPN2, and (beginning 1993 and again in 1999) ABC, including many of the latter-round playoff games. He was always paired with color commentator Bill Clement during these ESPN-produced telecasts. NBC enlisted Thorne to call the hockey tournament with John Davidson during the 2002 Winter Olympics in Salt Lake City. He is the announcer on EA Sports' \"NHL 07\" (Xbox 360 only), \"NHL 08\", \"NHL 09\", \"NHL 10\", \"NHL 11\", \"NHL 12\", \"NHL 13\" and \"NHL 14\" video games, as well as ESPN Videogames' \"ESPN NHL 2K5\" alongside Bill Clement. From 2003 to 2004, John Davidson joined Thorne and Clement as a third man in the booth for big games.\n\nIn 2005 when ESPN dropped out of the bidding for NHL hockey games, He began doing play-by-play for baseball and college football on ESPN. He also picked up duties as the lead play-by-play announcer for the \"Frozen Four\", again paired with color commentator Bill Clement.\n\nThorne and Clement called every Stanley Cup win from through , except for ; Mike Emrick and John Davidson were the broadcast team for the clinching game of that Finals series (which was aired on Fox). Thorne, Clement, and John Davidson called both Stanley Cup wins from through . He called the end of two long-running Stanley Cup droughts, in 1994 for the New York Rangers and 1997 for the Detroit Red Wings.\n\nHe was named to call the play-by-play of Team USA's games in the 2010 World Junior Ice Hockey Championships for the NHL Network alongside Dave Starman. However, shortly before the tournament started, he was replaced by JP Dellacamera for personal reasons. He returned to the NHL Network in 2011 to call Team USA's games in the 2011 World Junior Ice Hockey Championships.\n\nThorne has also called ABC's coverage of the Capital One Bowl for 2004 and 2005.\n\nIn 2011, Thorne joined CBS Sports Network as a play-by-play man for college football and has been paired with Randy Cross as color analyst.\n\nESPN replaced Rob Stone the remaining (unrecorded) events for the by Thorne, including Pete Weber's record-breaking fifth U.S. Open championship.\n\nOn February 25, 2014, the WWE Network debuted \"WrestleMania Rewind\", a behind-the-scenes look at one of the matches that took place at the WWE's annual WrestleMania event. While Pat Summerall provided narration for the first episode, Thorne provides the narration for every episode beginning with episode #2 due to Summerall's passing.\n\nIn September 2002, Thorne reportedly talked of dissension in the Mets clubhouse between manager Bobby Valentine and the team's players. \"There are a lot of guys down there (in the dugout) who don't like him,\" a \"New York Daily News\" columnist quotes Thorne as having said. \"They don't like playing for him. And if there has ever been a Teflon manager, he's it. Nothing seems to stick. He's never responsible for anything.\" Valentine and the Mets parted ways after the 2002 season.\n\nIn April 2007, in reference to Curt Schilling's famed bloody sock during the 2004 MLB playoffs, Thorne said during a broadcast of a Red Sox–Orioles game that Boston backup catcher Doug Mirabelli admitted it was a hoax. \"It was painted,\" Thorne said. \"Doug Mirabelli confessed up to it after. It was all for PR.\" Thorne later said that Mirabelli had only been joking. \"He said one thing, and I heard something else. I reported what I heard and what I honestly felt was said,\" Thorne said. \"Having talked with him today, there's no doubt in my mind that's not what he said, that's not what he meant. He explained that it was in the context of the sarcasm and the jabbing that goes on in the clubhouse. \"I took it as something serious, and it wasn't,\" Thorne said. Mirabelli confirmed the story, saying, \"He knows that I believe 100 percent that I thought the sock had blood on it. It never crossed my mind that there wasn't blood on that sock. If he misinterpreted something said inside the clubhouse, it's unfortunate.\" Mirabelli said he spoke with Thorne in the Boston clubhouse about six months after the 2004 playoffs. \"As he was walking away he asked, 'How about the bloody sock?' I said, 'Yeah, we got a lot of publicity out of that,' and that was all he can recall me saying,\" Mirabelli said. \"He said he assumed what I meant was that the sock was fake and that it was just a publicity stunt. That by no means is what I meant. There was never a doubt in mind there was blood on the sock.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2058837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2058837", "title": "Monivea", "text": "Monivea\n\nMonivea () is a village in County Galway, Ireland. It is located approximately 30 km from Galway City and 9 km from Athenry. \n\nIt was formerly part of the kingdom of the Soghain of Connacht. Monivea is known for its forest, Monivea Castle which now lies in partial ruins, and a well-preserved mausoleum. The mausoleum and castle were built by the Ffrench family, one of the \"Tribes of Galway\", who were also responsible for the distinctive layout of the greens in the centre of the village, which were used as drying stations for the linen (known as flax) of local industries. The forest, mausoleum and castle were left to the State by the last Ffrench, and the forest is now held by Coillte.\n\nThere are two small grocery shops one with a petrol station, a butcher shop, four pubs, a Garda station, a post office, a playground, a church in Ryehill, and Monivea National School.\n\nThe Ffrenches (one of the tribes of Galway) bought lands off the O'Kelly family in 1609, building on to the fortifications of the O'Kelly castle and establishing Monivea House. The following generations of the Ffrenches reclaimed useful land which was mainly bog. The Ffrenches, landholders since early Norman times, remained Catholic, and Oliver Cromwell confiscated their land in 1650. Once he was gone however, the Ffrenches reclaimed the land.\n\nIn 1744 Robert Ffrench inherited the land. He turned bogs into arable land by ploughing, liming and seeding it. He set up a linen industry and houses for the weavers. Greens were laid out to dry the linen. He built a school and planted trees where Monivea woods now stands. \n\nIn 1762 construction commenced on the Protestant Church, and it was consecrated by the Archbishop of Tuam. It remained in use until 1924. The south side of the roof collapsed in 1955. The remains of the church can now be seen alongside the playground in the village.\n\nThe Fr. Sammon Centre is used to host events, including those marking the twinning with Treméven and celebrating the 1916 Rising. The hall is also used by several clubs in including boxing, active age, taekwondo and dance clubs.\n\nThe mausoleum contains the remains of Robert Ffrench and his daughter. A nearby icehouse was used for food storage by the Ffrenches.\n\nMonivea Abbeyknockmoy and Abbeyknockmoy Hurling are the local Gaelic Athletic Association clubs. \n\nMonivea Rugby Club has been present in the village since 1977. There are also taekwondo, kickboxing and boxing clubs.\n\nThe village of Monivea had been officially twinned with the town of Treméven France in 2010. However this process begun long before this with a number of visits between the two towns in the preceding years. The first part of the twinning towns charter was signed on 5 July 2009 in the town of Treméven France. The Monivea representatives spent a week being entertained by music, dance, tours of the area, and banquets provided by their hosts in Trémeven. Monivea signed the second part of the Twinning towns charter on Sunday 15 August 2010 in Monivea with the town of Treméven France.\n\n"}
{"id": "2058840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2058840", "title": "Moycullen", "text": "Moycullen\n\nMoycullen () is a Gaeltacht village in County Galway, Ireland, about 10 km (7 mi) northwest of Galway city. It is near Lough Corrib, on the N59 road to Oughterard and Clifden, in Connemara.\nMoycullen is now a satellite town of Galway with some residents commuting to the city for work, school, and business.\n\nThere is a primary school in the village, Scoil Mhuire, and three other primary schools in the parish: Scoil Naomh Bríde in Tullykyne, Scoil Bhaile Nua in Newtown, and Scoil Naomh Cholmáin in Tooreeny.\n\nThere is a Catholic parish of the same name that is part of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Galway, Kilmacduagh and Kilfenora that is roughly co-extensive with the civil parish. \nThe \"Church of the Immaculate Conception\" is located in the village.\n\nIt is home to two senior GAA clubs, a handball club and the Moycullen Basketball Club. Moycullen footballers won the All-Ireland Intermediate Club Football Championship in 2008, while the women's team won the Connacht intermediate Club Championship in 2017. Moycullen hurlers won the intermediate county championship in 1964 and 2011, the 2011 team going on to win the Connacht Intermediate Club Championship. In basketball, Moycullen won the President's Cup in 2009.\n\nMoycullen railway station opened on 1 January 1895 and shut on 29 April 1935.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2058844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2058844", "title": "Sheffield University Orienteering Club", "text": "Sheffield University Orienteering Club\n\nSheffield University Orienteering Club is a UK Orienteering Club. It is also known or abbreviated by the name ShUOC. The club is a member club of the British Orienteering Federation. It is currently the 4th most successful Orienteering Club in the UK by number of relay wins with 10, behind South Yorkshire, INT Edinburgh and long rivals Edinburgh University.\n\nThe club is open to students of Sheffield University. However, it is also open to members from Sheffield Hallam University. Upon leaving university, graduates then become a member of the ex-ShUOC club known as SPOOK (Sheffield Postgraduates Occasional Orienteering Klubb). Some people prefer \"old\" instead of \"occasional\" but the definitive abbreviation is unclear. SPOOK celebrated its 50th anniversary in 2017/18.\n\nThe club was formed in 1968 and celebrated its 50th anniversary in 2017/18. In that time it has been very successful. For instance, between 2005 and 2010 the club won the JK (Jan Kjellstrom International Festival of Orienteering) Relays (three times), the British Championships Relays (three times), the UK relay league (twice), the Harvester Relays (twice), the BUCS (British Universities and Colleges Sport) relays and was made Sheffield University Sports club of the year.\n\nThe following is a (probably incomplete) list of current and former members of ShUOC who have represented Great Britain at an international level i.e. World Cup races or World Championships.\n\n"}
{"id": "2058852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2058852", "title": "Afar Triangle", "text": "Afar Triangle\n\nThe Afar Triangle (also called the Afar Depression) is a geological depression caused by the Afar Triple Junction, which is part of the Great Rift Valley in East Africa. The region has disclosed fossil specimens of the very earliest hominins; that is, the earliest of the human clade; and it is thought by some paleontologists to be the cradle of the evolution of humans, see Middle Awash, Hadar. The Depression overlaps the borders of Eritrea, Djibouti and the entire Afar Region of Ethiopia; and it contains the lowest point in Africa, Lake Asal, Djibouti, at 155 m (or 509 ft) below sea level.\n\nThe Awash River is the main waterflow into the region, but it runs dry during the annual dry season, and ends as a chain of saline lakes. The northern part of the Afar Depression is also known as the Danakil Depression. The lowlands are affected by heat, drought, and minimal air circulation, and contain the hottest places (year-round average temperatures) of anywhere on Earth.\n\nThe Afar Triangle is bordered as follows (see the topographic map): on the west by the Ethiopian Plateau and escarpment; to the north-east (between it and the Red Sea) by the Danakil block; to the south by the Somali Plateau and escarpment; and to the south-east by the Ali-Sabieh block (adjoining the Somali Plateau).\n\nMany important fossil localities exist in the Afar region, including the Middle Awash region and the sites of Hadar, Dikika, and Woranso-Mille. These sites have produced specimens of the earliest (fossil) hominins and of human tool culture, as well as many fossils of various flora and fauna.\n\nDallol in the Danakil Depression is one of the hottest places year-round anywhere on Earth. There is no rain for most of the year; the yearly rainfall averages range from 100 to 200 millimetres (4 to 7 in), with even less rain falling closer to the coast. The climate varies from around during the very short rainy season (November–February) to during the dry season (February–November); \"see\" climate of the lowlands of the Danakil Depression.\nThe Awash River, flowing north-eastward through the southern part of the Afar Region, provides a narrow green belt which enables life for the flora and fauna in the area and for the Afars, the nomadic people living in the Danakil Desert. About from the Red Sea the Awash ends in a chain of salt lakes, where its waterflow evaporates as quickly as it is supplied. Some of the Afar Depression is covered by salt deposits, and mining salt is a major source of income for many Afar groups.\n\nThe Afar Depression biome is characterized as desert scrubland. Vegetation is mostly confined to drought-resistant plants such as small trees (e.g. species of the dragon tree), shrubs, and grasses. Wildlife includes many herbivores such as Grevy's zebra, Soemmering's gazelle, beisa and, notably, the last viable population of African wild ass (\"Equus africanus somalicus\").\n\nBirds include the ostrich, the endemic Archer's lark (\"Heteromirafra archeri\"), the secretary bird, Arabian and Kori bustards, Abyssinian roller, and crested francolin. In the southern part of the plain lies the Mille-Sardo Wildlife Reserve in Ethiopia.\n\nThe Afar Triangle is a cradle source of the earliest hominins. It contains a paleo-archaeological district that includes the Middle Awash region and numerous prehistoric sites of fossil hominin discoveries, including: the hominids and possible hominins, Ardi, or \"Ardipithecus ramidus\", and \"Ardipithecus kadabba\", see below; the Gawis cranium hominin from Gona; several sites of the world's oldest stone tools; Hadar, the site of Lucy, the fossilized specimen of \"Australopithecus afarensis\"; and Dikika, the site of the fossilized child Selam, an australopithecine hominin.\n\nIn 1994, near the Awash River in Ethiopia, Tim D. White found the then-oldest known human ancestor: 4.4 million-year-old \"Ar. ramidus\". A fossilized almost complete skeleton of a female hominin which he named \"Ardi\", it took nearly 15 years to safely excavate, preserve, and describe the specimen and to prepare publication of the event.\n\nThe Afar Depression is the product of a tectonic triple-rifts junction (the Afar Triple Junction), where the spreading ridges forming the Red Sea and the Gulf of Aden emerge on land and meet the East African Rift. The conjunction of these three plates of Earth's crust is near Lake Abbe. The Afar Depression is one of two places on Earth where a mid-ocean ridge can be studied on land, the other being Iceland.\n\nWithin the Triangle, the Earth's crust is slowly rifting apart at a rate of 1–2 centimetres (0.4–0.8 in) per year along each of the three rift zones forming the \"legs\" of the triple junction. The immediate consequences are recurring sequences of earthquakes with deep fissures in the terrain hundreds of metres long, and the valley floor sinking broadly across the Depression. During September and October 2005 some 163 earthquakes of magnitudes greater than 3.9 and a volcanic eruption occurred within the Afar rift at the Dabbahu and Erta Ale volcanoes. Some 2.5 cubic kilometers of molten rock was injected from below into the plate along a dyke between depths of 2 and 9 km, forcing open an 8 meter wide gap on the surface, known as the Dabbahu fissure. \n\nRelated eruptions have taken place in Teru and Aura woredas. The rift has recently been recorded by means of three-dimensional laser mapping.\n\nThe region's salt deposits were created over time as water from the Red Sea periodically flooded the Depression and evaporated; the most recent such flood was roughly 30,000 years ago.\nOver the next millions of years, geologists expect erosion and the Red Sea to breach the highlands surrounding the Afar Depression and flood the valley. Geologists predict that in about 10 million years the whole 6,000 km length of the East African Rift will be submerged, forming a new ocean basin as large as today's Red Sea, and separating the Somali plate and the Horn of Africa from the rest of the continent.\n\nThe floor of the Afar Depression is composed of lava, mostly basalt. One of Earth's five lava lakes, Erta Ale is found here, as well as Dabbahu Volcano. It has been proposed that the Afar Depression is underlain by a mantle plume, a great upwelling of mantle that melts to yield basalt as it approaches the surface.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2058854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2058854", "title": "Portumna", "text": "Portumna\n\nPortumna ( - meaning 'the landing place of the oak') is a market town in the south-east of County Galway, Ireland, on the border with and linked by a bridge to County Tipperary. The town is located to the west of the point where the River Shannon enters Lough Derg. This historic crossing point over the River Shannon between counties Tipperary and Galway has a long history of bridges and ferry crossings. On the south-western edge of the town lie Portumna Castle and Portumna forest park.\n\nPortumna is served with a five-span road bridge over the Shannon. This was designed by C. E. Stanier of London, and completed in 1911, with a central section resting on Hayes's Island which divides the river into two channels. The steel structure of the main bridge and pivotting swing bridge over the navigation channel are of technical and engineering interest, and it is the largest early-twentieth century swing bridge in Europe.. The opening section was replaced in October 2008.\n\nThe Shannon at this point consists of two channels divided by Hayes Island, the one on the County Tipperary side being about 79 m (260 ft) wide, and that on the Galway side being about 73 m (240 ft) wide. Each channel is spanned by three pairs of mild-steel plate girders, either 24 m (80 ft) or 27 m (90 ft) in length, resting on 3 m (9 ft) diameter concrete-filled cast-iron cylinders.\nA number of Poor Law Unions were set up across Ireland during the Great Famine. The Portumna Union was formally declared on 22 February 1850, covering an area of as a subdivision of the Ballinasloe and Loughrea unions.\nThe Portumna Union workhouse was erected on a site to the north-east of Portumna. Designed by the Poor Law Commissioners' architect George Wilkinson, the building was intended to accommodate 600 inmates who were badly affected by the lack of both employment and food at the time. Its construction cost £6,700 plus £1,175 for fittings etc., but in recent years the workhouse site has been left semi-derelict. One of the front blocks is, however, used by a local council depot. The Irish Workhouse Centre, opened in the old Portumna Workhouse during summer 2011, is the only centre telling the history of workhouses in Ireland.\n\nThe town is noted for Portumna Castle and for the lords that lived there. The castle is actually a semi-fortified house and was built before 1618 by Richard Burke or de Burgo, the 4th Earl of Clanricarde. It was the main seat of the de Burgo family for over 200 years, until it was gutted by fire in 1826.\n\nThe castle is located about 200 metres North of Portumna (or 'New') Harbour on Lough Derg, with Portumna Forest Park to the west and the town of Portumna about 300 metres to the north and east.\n\nFollowing conservation and restoration work, the ground floor of the castle is now open to the public from April–September daily and from September–October on weekends only. The conservation works on other parts of the castle are ongoing. To the north of the castle are formal, geometrically laid out gardens. The castle also includes the restored 17th century walled kitchen garden.\n\nAs with many historic buildings a number of local legends have grown up around the castle. One local legend goes that a child fell out of the upper windows. An Irish Wolfhound raced over, broke the child's fall and saved the child. A marker stone now rests on the site. The bones of the dog, called \"Fury\" according to a marker stone erected at the time of his death, have been found during excavations, and are now on display in the castle itself. However, the veracity of this is doubted. Amongst the oldest families of the area, whose histories run alongside that of the castle, the legend is that the Earl's wolfhound died during the fire, on the balcony alongside the Earl's daughter.\n\nThe Irish National Land League's Land War, a plan of campaign to force landlords to reduce rents, started in Portumna. Hubert de Burgh-Canning, 2nd Marquess of Clanricarde was targeted because of his harsh treatment of his tenants. Clanricarde was quoted as saying \"if you think you can intimidate me by shooting my agent, you are mistaken.\" He demanded that the government offer all the protection to which his property was entitled, which they did. When rent day came in November 1886, 4,000 tenants marched with a brass band past the estate office and to the hotel where a group of nationalist members of parliament decided how much rent was to be paid. The tenants then returned to the estate office and offered their rent, which the officer in charge refused to take as it was lower than the amount the landlord had set. The money was then handed over to the MPs for the defence of the tenants. The MP William O'Brien described it as \"an artist in political melodrama.\" One of the main instigators in this drama was Jeremiah O'Driscoll, affectionately known as \"cus\". Because of the disturbances in Portumna an 1887 act was brought into effect, the Perpetual Crimes Act, in effect the last Irish crimes act ever to be put on the British statute book.\n\nToday, Portumna Castle is a heritage museum of the Flight of the Wild Geese.\n\nPortumna forest park is located on the southwestern edge of the town, on the northern shore of Lough Derg. The park spans almost 600 hectares (1,500 acres) and formed part of the lands of the Earl of Clanricarde, who was seated at Portumna Castle. It was purchased by the Irish government in 1948, and is now owned by Coillte.\n\nWithin the park there are forest and lakeside walks, car parking and toilet facilities and observation points. There are also a number of bike-friendly trails. Also within the site are the remains of a Cistercian abbey, dating from the 15th Century and adjacent to the Park is a marina giving access to the Shannon waterway system.\n\nThe forest is mainly coniferous but also contains a wide variety of broadleaved trees, both native and exotic. In addition to woodlands there are wide open spaces, green fields, scrub, marsh, water and numerous off-shore islands. This inter mix of forest, open area, water and islands gives a wide choice of habitat to support a great variety of flora and fauna.\nPortumna is a tourist destination for boaters, golfers and anglers. The town is at the junction of the River Shannon and Lough Derg, and there are a number of harbours - two of which are on the Portumna side of the river.\n\nThese are Connacht Harbour, accessed via the river, which is beside Bridge Road, on the eastern side of the town, and Portumna (or 'New') Harbour which is on the northern shore of Lough Derg beside Castle Avenue, adjacent to the castle and the forest park on the southern edge of the town.\n\nA third private harbour has been recently established on the Tipperary side of the river at Portland House. There are also private moorings at Belle Isle harbour. Pleasure craft can be privately hired at Emerald Star Line cruisers at Connacht Harbour.\n\nIn addition to trails within the forest park, Portumna is the southern trailhead of the Hymany Way which here forms part of the Beara-Breifne long distance walking and cycling trail between the Beara Peninsula in County Cork and Blacklion in County Cavan. A free weekly timed 5km Parkrun takes place on forest paths within the forest park.\n\nThe town is home to the 2006, 2008, 2009 and 2014 All-Ireland Senior Club Hurling Championship winners, Portumna GAA. The hurlers have also won six Galway county titles, in 2003, 2005, 2007, 2008, 2009 and 2013. A number of Portumna players, including Joe Canning, have been members of the Galway senior panel.\n\nWhile soccer has been played in Portumna in various guises over the years, Portumna Town FC was founded in 2006, with a view to providing organised football for the children of Portumna and the surrounding areas. The club competes in the Midlands Schoolboy League, and league, cup and shield trophies at various age groups have been won over the years. The club has a 3G astro turf facility and in 2013 a senior team was started up to compete in the North Tipperary League.\n\nThere are several angling spots near Portumna - a number of which are official match stretches located on the River Shannon itself and the northern shores of Lough Derg. On the river there are two main stretches near Portumna. One is downstream of Portumna and is known locally as the 'lower town stretch' or 'Rogers Island'. The other is upstream of the town and is known as the upper ESB stretch or 'Fairyhill'. The most commonly caught species include pike, perch, bream, roach and hybrids. The River Shannon and Lough Derg also provide for pleasure boating and watersports. During the summer months, sports such as water-skiing and wakeboarding are undertaken in Portumna.\nPortumna Golf Club (founded in 1913) and its 18-hole parkland golf course (par 72), set within the Portumna Forest Park, is located on the western approach to the town, approximately two kilometres from the town centre on the Ennis/Gort road. In 2010, \"Golf Digest Ireland\" ranked the course as number 61 out of 100 of the top courses in Ireland. As of 2014, the course was ranked 53rd.\n\nA now annual long-distance running event, the Portumna Forest Marathon, was started in 2010. The event includes both a full and half marathon, along with 50 km and 100 km ultra marathons. The event staged one of the world cup trophy series in 2014.\n\nIn August 1985 the three Scout Associations in Ireland (CBSI, SAI, and NISC) held a major Jamboree at Portumna, Co. Galway to celebrate International Youth Year. 'Portumna '85' was the first Irish Scout camp involving all three Irish Scouting organizations. It is remembered by both participants and locals as 'Port-mud-na '85' on account of the muddy conditions that had to be endured by the 10,000 or so participants, caused by the torrential rain which fell during that summer.\n\nPortumna holds two festivals each year. The first in late June is the \"Portumna's Great Outdoors Festival\", a celebration of the many outdoors attractions that Portumna has to offer, which takes place over three days. The second is the Shorelines Arts Festival in late September over four days.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2058855", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2058855", "title": "Brett Scallions", "text": "Brett Scallions\n\nBrett Allen Scallions (born December 21, 1971) is an American musician. He is the lead vocalist, rhythm guitarist, and lyricist of rock band Fuel.\n\nBorn in Brownsville, Tennessee, Scallions gained recognition serving as the original lead vocalist for the rock band Fuel from 1993 to 2006. During that time, the band released three major-label albums including the double platinum \"Something Like Human\". His initial stint with the band ended in February 2006, with Scallions citing a lack of passion as the major contributing factor to his departure. Scallions has denied vocal issues and the negated vocal surgery rumors as reasons for his leaving.\n\nScallions has been ranked in the \"Top 100 Heavy Metal Vocalists\" by \"Hit Parader\" (#50).\n\nAfter leaving Fuel, Scallions joined bands The X's and Circus Diablo playing bass. Both bands ultimately became one-album projects and conclude shortly after subsequent tours.\n\nIn March 2007, Scallions was selected as the lead singer for Riders on the Storm, a project featuring former The Doors members Robby Krieger and Ray Manzarek.\n\nIn August 2007, Scallions told Alternative Addiction about a project he had been working on with an old Fuel bandmate. \"Jonathan Mover who played drums on the first Fuel record, he and I are doing a record together where I am doing the bulk of the writing, I'll be singing it, and playing guitar, and I'll have some guest guitar players come in. It's very exciting for me; it's a record I've dreamed of doing for a really long time.\" Scallions continued, \"We've got a few names in the hat right now, but I'm reluctant to say any of them right now because I wanna make sure that we have the name ready to go when it comes time to put it out.\"\n\nNo other information on this project has since been given by Scallions or Mover and there is some speculation that this may have been a precursor to the later World Fire Brigade project.\n\nBrett Scallions contributed lead vocals to the charity single \"Something to Believe\", released by the band Hollow on iTunes via Koch Records on March 9, 2010.\n\nOutside Re-Fueled, Scallions was busy with Sean Danielsen of Smile Empty Soul and producer Eddie Wohl, writing and recording an album under the name World Fire Brigade. \"It's much heavier than anything I ever did with Fuel,\" Scallions said of World Fire Brigade's sound in August 2009. \"We've done a lot of stuff in lower tones which is a first for me also, it's very deep, heavy, and even growly at times.\" He also said that the World Fire Brigade album was \"almost three-quarters of the way complete, and planned to be released early next spring, fingers crossed\". Two new tracks \"Shot Down\" and \"Take Me Away\" were available on MySpace since March 2011. The album is currently available for streaming through Riptide Music website (under working title \"Weight of the World\").\n\nThe debut album titled \"Spreading My Wings\" was released by FrostByte Media Inc. on August 28, 2012.\n\nThe World Fire Brigade line-up consisted of Scallions (vocals/guitar), Sean Danielsen (vocals/guitar), and Eddie Wohl (keyboards). Guest musicians on the album included former Candiria drummer Ken Schalk, Mike McCready (Pearl Jam), Rob Caggiano (Anthrax), and Andy Andersson (Black Robot). Brad Stewart had been announced as the group's touring bassist. Even though he recorded bass tracks for the album, Scallions had stated that he will be playing rhythm guitar when the group goes on tour.\n\nOn April 3, 2013, the following message was posted on the World Fire Brigade Facebook page:\n\n\"Thanks to everyone that has discovered our music and has questions about touring and new music. Right now we're all too busy with our other bands to tour, but that doesn't mean it will never happen.\" The post went on to invite fans to support the bands Fuel and Smile Empty Soul \"on the road all year\".\n\nAfter Brett Scallions left Fuel in February 2006, the three remaining members of the band chose to continue with new vocalist Toryn Green. With Green, Fuel would record one unsuccessful album, 2007's \"Angels & Devils\" and would largely be inactive by 2008 due to legal issues with their then-label Epic Records.\n\nDuring Fuel's inactivity, Brett Scallions and bassist Jeff Abercrombie teamed up for the first time since Scallions' departure in 2006 to tour as \"Re-Fueled\". Scallions and Abercrombie recruited guitarist Yogi Lonich of Chris Cornell and Buckcherry fame and drummer Ken Schalk, formerly of Candiria to round out the unit. Their debut performance was a free event that took place on August 28, 2009 at the Tempe Marketplace, playing songs from the Sunburn and Something Like Human albums exclusively.\n\nStill without word from the official incarnation of Fuel and with Re-Fueled increasing its tour schedule, speculation surrounding the future for Fuel began to increase including some confusion on the part of vocalist Toryn Green. Green explained he had not heard anything from the other members, but expressed his support for seeing Scallions back on stage singing classic Fuel songs again. Finally, On April 8, 2010, it was announced that Re-Fueled had disbanded, and that original guitarist/songwriter Carl Bell, and bassist Jeff Abercrombie had left Fuel to pursue other endeavors. Toryn Green and drummer Tommy Stewart left the band as well. On the same day, Brett Scallions reformed Fuel with Lonich, Schalk, and former Shinedown bassist Brad Stewart.\n\nA couple of new songs worked their way into Fuel's live sets between 2010 and 2013, beginning with a track titled \"Headache\", and in March 2012 it was announced that Fuel intended to release a new album, which would be the first Fuel contribution to include Scallions since 2003's Natural Selection. By the end of April 2013, tracking for the new album had been completed and the band promised that a new single was soon to come.\n\nOn December 5, 2013, the first new track from the forthcoming Puppet Strings album was unveiled, and the first official single was set for a January 2014 release with the album release to follow on March 4.\n\nIn June 2014, the album release was followed-up with the song \"Cold Summer\" being released as a single. Scallions has stated that he penned the song during his original tenure in Fuel, somewhere around 2002. Originally known as \"Hit and Sorry\", he recalls having recorded it so many times he almost gave up on the track. After adding a new chorus with contributions from producer Eddie Wohl and consulting the opinions of his bandmates, the decision was made to include the song on the album.\n\nIn 2015, Scallions embarked on his first unplugged tour. He performed Fuel songs as well as covering some of his favorite songs that were seminal in his musical journey.\n\nScallions is currently married to Abby Gennet, guitarist and lead singer of Slunt. They have two sons together; Jagger Song Scallions (born September 7, 2007), and Sawyer Cruz Scallions (born December 9, 2010).\n"}
{"id": "2058873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2058873", "title": "Karma (Kamelot album)", "text": "Karma (Kamelot album)\n\nKarma is the fifth full-length album by power metal band Kamelot. It was released on July 9, 2001 through Noise Records (Germany) which is a part of Sanctuary Records.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2058878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2058878", "title": "Text sim", "text": "Text sim\n\nText sims are computer or video games that focus on using a text based element to simulate some aspect of the real world. Text sims typically focus on creating as detailed a simulation of their object as possible, and therefore, other traditional game elements are often set aside in pursuit of creating an accurate simulation experience for the user. This pursuit of accurate simulation often comes at the expense of some or most audio or graphical elements. Numerous examples of soundless and graphic-light text sims exist.\n\nThe best selling text sim of all time is the Championship Manager/Football Manager series, published by Sports Interactive games, sold in America as Worldwide Soccer Manager. This soccer text simulation is an advanced version of a text sim with a 2D graphical sim engine for soccer games.\n\nThere are several genres of text sims. The most popular may be the sports text sim. In addition to the above-mentioned Football Manager, there are several text-based sim games in baseball, football, basketball, hockey, even wrestling. This genre is typically heavy is stats, and some games have been compared to spreadsheets with all of their detail to simulating the true environment of the sport. One of the flagship products of the sports text sim is Front Office Football, which is renowned for creating a very accurate experience as a general manager of a professional football team while also retaining a heavy statistical engine. Out of the Park Baseball is another example of such a sports sim with a true-to-life experience.\n\nAnother genre of text sims is the tycoon genre. Although early entrants in the tycoon genre were graphically based, such as Railroad Tycoon and later Roller Coaster Tycoon, a large number of tycoon clones arose. The tycoon genre focuses on an economic simulation of one or more commercial elements. Many recent budget tycoon games have more in common with text sims than the original games, often retaining graphics merely as an interface to appeal to the general audience. Examples of these games include Coffee Tycoon, where a player runs a coffee shop franchise; Hollywood Mogul, where the player creates and runs a movie studio; and Starship Tycoon where the player manages a merchant spaceship plying the trade routes in the future. One of the earliest text sims was a simplistic economics-based game, called Lemonade Stand, where the player takes on the role of a child managing his lemonade stand.\n\nA third text sim genre is the political simulation. Political enterprises such as elections lend themselves well to the statistics-oriented text sim gaming. These text sims often focus on elections, although a few chose instead to focus on the running on a country. Due to the nature of this genre, it often relies on a graphical interface, typically a map. However, the game information is delivered in a text-based format. Examples of this genre include The Political Machine and Power Politics, where the player tries to win an election for the American Presidency.\n\nYet another text sim genre is the real world simulation. These text sims try to manage a real world situation of some sort in a text based engine. Often this genre will try to use statistics to figure out some element of life. A recent example of this genre is Kudos, where a player simulates the life of a young person in their early twenties trying to decide what to do with life.\n\nSports Sims:\n\nTycoon/Business Sims:\n\nPolitical Sims:\n"}
{"id": "2058881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2058881", "title": "Middle Eastern music", "text": "Middle Eastern music\n\nMiddle Eastern music refers to different various music styles that span across the Middle East. The various nations of the region include the Arabic-speaking countries of the Middle East, the Iranian traditions of Persia, the Hebrew music of Israel and the diaspora, Armenian music, the varied traditions of Cypriot music, the music of Turkey, traditional Assyrian music, Coptic ritual music in Egypt, and the Andalusian (Muslim Spain) music very much alive in the greater Middle East (North Africa), all maintain their own traditions. It is widely regarded that some Middle-Eastern musical styles have influenced Central Asia, as well as Spain, and the Balkans.\n\nThroughout the region, religion has been a common factor in uniting peoples of different languages, cultures and nations. \nThe predominance of Islam allowed a great deal of Arabic, and Byzantine influence to spread through the region rapidly from the 7th century onward. The Arabic scale is strongly melodic, based on various maqamat (sing. maqam) or modes (also known as makam in Turkish music). The early Arabs translated and developed Greek texts and works of music and mastered the musical theory of the music of ancient Greece (i.e. \"Systema ametabolon, enharmonium, chromatikon, diatonon\"). This is similar to the dastgah of Persian music. While this originates with classical music, the modal system has filtered down into folk, liturgical and even popular music, with influence from the West. Unlike much western music, Arabic music includes quarter tones halfway between notes, often through the use of stringed instruments (like the oud) or the human voice. Further distinguishing characteristics of Middle Eastern and North African music include very complex rhythmic structures, generally tense vocal tone, and a monophonic texture. Traditional Middle Eastern music does not use chords, or harmony in the Western sense.\n\nOften, more traditional Middle-Eastern music can last from one to three hours in length, building up to anxiously awaited, and much applauded climaxes, or \"tarab\", derived from the Arabic term طرب \"tarraba\".\n\nMany instruments originate in the Middle East region. Most popular of the stringed instruments is the oud, a pear-shaped lute that traditionally had four strings, although current instruments have up to six courses consisting of one or two strings each. Legend has it that the oud was invented by Lamech, the sixth grandson of Adam. This is stated by Al-Farabi, and it is part of the Iraqi folklore relating to the instrument. Legend goes on to suggest that the first oud was inspired by the shape of his son's bleached skeleton.\n\nHistorically, the oldest pictorial record of the oud dates back to the Uruk period in Southern Mesopotamia over 5000 years ago. It is on a cylinder seal currently housed at the British Museum and acquired by Dr. Dominique Collon, Editor of Iraq at the British Institute for the Study of Iraq.\n\nUsed mostly in court music for royals and the rich, the harp also comes from ancient Egypt c. 3500 BC.\n\nThe widespread use of the oud led to many variations on the instrument, including the saz, a Turkish long-necked lute that remains very popular in Turkey.\n\nAnother popular string instrument is the qanoun, developed by Farabi during the Abbasids era. Legend has it that Farabi played qanoun in court and alternately made people laugh, cry, or fall asleep. The qanoun developed out of string instruments described in inscriptions that date to the Assyrian period. It has about 26 triple-string courses, plucked with a piece of horn. The musician has the freedom to alter the pitch of individual courses from a quarter to a whole step by adjusting metal levers.\n\nMiddle Eastern music also makes use of the violin, which is European in origin. The violin was adopted into Middle Eastern music in the 19th century, and it is able to produce non-Western scales that include quarter-tones because it is fretless.\n\nPercussion instruments play a very important role in Middle Eastern music. The complex rhythms of this music are often played on many simple percussion instruments. The riq (a type of tambourine) and finger cymbals add a higher rhythmic line to rhythm laid down with sticks, clappers, and other drums. An instrument native to Egypt, Israel, Palestine, and Lebanon, the doumbek (or \"tombak\"), is a drum made of ceramic clay, with a goatskin head glued to the body.\n\nThe Armenian duduk is a very popular double reeded, oboe-like instrument made out of Apricot tree wood. The Moroccan oboe, also called the rhaita, has a double-reed mouthpiece that echoes sound down its long and narrow body. A similar instrument is called the sorna. Equivalent to the mizmar and zurna, it is used more for festivals and loud celebrations. A Turkish influence comes from the mey, which has a large double reed. Bamboo reed pipes are the most common background to belly dancing and music from Egypt. Flutes are also a common woodwind instrument in ensembles. A kaval is a three-part flute that is blown in one end, whereas the ney is a long cane flute, played by blowing across the sharp edge while pursing the lips.\n\nMusic pervades Middle Eastern societies. While traditional music remains popular in the Middle East, modern music reconciling Western and traditional Arabic styles, pop, and fusion are rapidly advancing in popularity.\nLebanese rock Star who performs in English, Lydia Canaan, is listed in the catalog of the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame and Museum's Library and Archives in Cleveland, Ohio, USA as the first rock star of the Middle East. Canaan fused Middle Eastern quarter tones and microtones with anglophone rock, innovating a unique style of world music.\n\n"}
{"id": "2058882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2058882", "title": "Fuzhou, Jiangxi", "text": "Fuzhou, Jiangxi\n\nFuzhou (, ), also known as Gandong (), is a prefecture-level city in the northeastern part of Jiangxi province, People's Republic of China.\n\nFuzhou is located to the south of the provincial capital Nanchang, bordered in the east by Fujian Province. Its total area is . The population is 3,900,000. The area is located northwest of the Wuyi Mountains, and is drained by the Fu River (Fuhe), which flows northwest to the Poyang Lake (in the neighboring Nanchang Prefecture).\n\nThe area was part of Chu during the Warring States Period. After being conquered by the Qin, it was included in the Jiujiang Commandery.\n\nIn 204 BC, the territory was added to the Huainan Kingdom. Two years later, Yuzhang Commandery was dissociated from Huainan. Names of the counties Nancheng and Linru, both of which then part of Yuzhang, first appeared in this period.\n\nIn 257 AD, counties Linru and Nancheng were added to a new commandery, Linchuan. Thereafter they were divided to 10 counties including Linru, Nancheng, Xiping, Xinjian, Xicheng, Yihuang, Anpu, Nanfeng, Yongcheng, Dongxing, with the administration center in Linru County. In 522 AD, another new commandery, Bashan, was divided from Linchuan, administering 7 counties Xinjian, Xining, Bashan, Dafeng, Xin’an, Xingping, Fengcheng. Linchuan and Bashan belonged to Gao State in 557 AD. The two commanderies were replaced by Fu Prefecture (Fuzhou) in 589 AD.\n\nIn 811 AD, Fuzhou was renamed as Shangzhou. In 975 AD, it was renamed as Junzhou. In 1149 AD, Le’an County was established in the prefecture, which administered counties Linchuan, Chongren, Yihuang, Jinxi and Le’an at that time. On June 23, 2000, Fuzhou City was officially established as a prefecture-level city in China.\n\nThe main industries in the area are food, textiles, food processing and light-modeled cars.\n\nFuzhou has direct jurisdiction over two districts and nine counties:\n\nDistricts (): \n\nCounties ():\n\n\n\nFuzhou is historically important as the home (specifically Linchuan) of Wang Anshi, the famous reformist prime minister of Song Dynasty, Zeng Gong, an influential scholar and historian of the Song Dynasty, and Tang Xianzu, the great Ming Dynasty dramatist.\n\n"}
{"id": "2058889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2058889", "title": "Karlshrue College", "text": "Karlshrue College\n\nKarlshrue College is an English language school in Colombo, Sri Lanka, located at Karlshrue Place, Colombo. It has 500 students and 17 teachers, with an auditorium and a swimming pool. \nThe School is situated at 5, Karlshrue Place, Colombo-10, Sri Lanka.\nThe Principal is Sali Devon.\n\nThe school teaches history and is mentioned in the Galle Fort, Dutch Fort and Dutch period museum histories. The School has a connection with Wesley College, Colombo and Southland Balika. Some graduates have entered the Universities in Sri Lanka.\n\nThe School closed its business in 2010.\n"}
{"id": "2058902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2058902", "title": "Sinan Al Shabibi", "text": "Sinan Al Shabibi\n\nDr. Sinan Al-Shabibi () is an Iraqi economist who served as the governor of the Central Bank of Iraq from September 2003 to October 2012.\n\nBorn in Baghdad on 1 July 1941 and son of the prominent Iraqi figure Mohammed Ridha Al-Shabibi, Dr. Al-Shabibi holds a BSc in Economics from Baghdad University (1966), a Diploma in Advanced Studies in Economic Development, an MA in Economics from the University of Manchester (1970, 1971), and a PhD in Economics from the University of Bristol (1975).\n\nFrom April 1977 to December 1980, Sinan Al-Shabibi was the Chief of plan Preparation and Co-ordination Division at the Iraqi Ministry of Planning, and from May 1975 to March 1977 he worked as the Head of Imports and Marketing Section at the Iraqi ministry of oil.\n\nImmediately after the start of the Iran–Iraq War, he moved to Geneva in Switzerland where he spent from December 1980 to October 2001 working as a Senior Economist in the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD).\n\nOn 1 August 2002 Al-Shabibi testified among other witnesses at the Hearing Before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee about possible military action in Iraq. The topics that he addressed were the state of the Iraqi economy and its stabilisation post a possible military campaign.\n\nSince taking over as central bank governor, Al-Shabibi introduced the bank's employees to modern finance and payment systems. He made the bank switch from typewriters and calculators to computers, introduced it to financial instruments like currency auctions, and replaced Iraq's pre-2003 banknotes with the New Iraqi Dinar between October 2003 and January 2004. He also involved directly the Central Bank of Iraq in the International Monetary Fund and World Bank co-operation programs, in addition to the Paris Club negotiations where 19 rich creditor nations agreed in 2004 to write off 80 percent of pre-2003 debt to help Iraq recover from the 2003 US-led invasion. Debt forgiveness talks with non-Paris Club nations are still under way.\n\nIn the effort to further modernise the Central Bank of Iraq, Al-Shabibi appointed Baghdad-born architect Zaha Hadid in August 2010 to design the new headquarters for the Central Bank in Baghdad. On 2 February 2012 Zaha Hadid joined Dr Sinan Al‐Shabibi at a ceremony in London to sign the agreement between the Central Bank of Iraq and Zaha Hadid Architects for the design stages of the new CBI Headquarters building.\n\nDespite a highly uncertain domestic and external environment, Al-Shabibi has held the Iraqi currency, the Iraqi Dinar firm at about US$1 = IQD 1'190 (US$1 equalled IQD 2'214 in December 2002), reduced inflation to single digits (from 64% in 2006 to 5.2% in September 2012), quadrupled the bank's gold reserves to 32 tonnes, and remained a strong advocate of central bank independence. The implementation of these policies combined with the rise in oil revenues have helped to increase foreign exchange reserves to nearly US$67 billion (as of September 2012) up from US$2.7 billion in December 2002 supporting further Iraq's Macroeconomic stability.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2058908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2058908", "title": "Ukiah Oregon", "text": "Ukiah Oregon\n\nUkiah Oregon is the hero of an eponymous series of science fiction/adventure novels written by Wen Spencer.\n\nThe \"Ukiah Oregon series\" consists of four novels:\nThe four novels form a near-continuous series of adventures located, with flashbacks, between June and September 2004.\n\nUkiah Oregon is described in the first novel, \"Alien Taste\", as a Pittsburgh-based private investigator of probable Native American ancestry, apparently aged about 21 years old. He has a photographic memory, but he has no specific memory of the time before he was trapped about eight years earlier as a feral child near the town of Ukiah, Oregon, from which he takes his name, having been raised by a pack of wolves. He has a remarkable ability to track people and sense the details of a subject's DNA, which he attributes to his lupine upbringing. His lack of human contact in his childhood has deprived him of much of the knowledge of how to behave socially, as well as pop culture references.\n\nDuring the course of the first novel it becomes apparent that Ukiah is, in fact, not human—or at least not \"completely\" human. When he is severely injured his blood forms into independently operating animals: larger clots form \"blood mice,\" smaller clots might form insects or other animals of appropriate size. This is a defense mechanism that allows cells to live independently if the main body is injured. These animals contain some of his memories, and they will subsequently try to rejoin him to be reabsorbed by his body; failure to reabsorb such a \"blood animal\" results in the loss of that memory. Ukiah can even be killed, but as long as his body is not destroyed (e.g. by burning) he will recover given sufficient time.\n\nIt is revealed that several centuries ago the invasion force of a hive mind species called the \"Ontongard\" arrived in the Solar System with the intention of converting all life on Earth into a copy of itself, via a form of viral infection.\n\nOne of the Ontongard, Prime, was a mutation who was somehow independent of the hive mind. He rebelled against the Ontongard, sabotaging the invasion mission and ultimately leaving most of the personnel stranded in suspended hibernation in the starship on the surface of Mars.\n\nPrime was killed by the surviving Ontongard, Hex, but not before he had artificially inseminated Kicking Deer, a woman of the Umatilla tribe, who gave birth to a boy named Magic Boy (described in flashback in \"Tainted Trail\").\n\nBefore his death Prime also infected a wolf, Coyote, with his blood, converting Coyote into his \"Get,\" with all his memories and effective immortality via the same \"blood mice\" method that Ukiah has. Over the intervening centuries Coyote has in turn created a number of Gets of his own, and they in their turn have also created Gets. Prime's Gets number about 100 at the time of the stories, and form a group of motorcycle gangs collectively known as \"The Pack.\" Hex, meanwhile, has created large numbers of Ontongard Gets, and the two groups have fought a discreet war ever since their creation.\n\nUkiah Oregon is the main character of the series, a Pittsburgh-based private investigator. He was raised by wolves near the town of Ukiah, Oregon (where he gets his name) until Mom Jo caught him in a humane trap and took him home to Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. In \"Alien Taste\" he discovers that he is a half-alien \"breeder\" discovered to help the Ontongard invade Earth. In \"Tainted Trail\" he learns that he was a part of the original breeder named Magic Boy, who was murdered and dismembered in 1933.\n\nMax Bennett is Ukiah's partner. A millionaire, Max became an investigator specializing in finding missing persons after his wife disappeared (he later learned that she had drowned in a lake after a car accident). Ukiah's moms called him in to investigate Ukiah's origins after they had a daughter of their own and became convinced that Ukiah's parents must still be looking for him. During this case, Max discovered Ukiah's abnormal tracking skills and hired him on part-time, until a run-in with a serial killer nearly killed Ukiah. Max then made him a partner. Max has romantic feelings for Sam Killington. His first appearance is in \"Alien Taste\".\n\nIndigo Zheng is an FBI agent and Ukiah's girlfriend. Her first appearance is in \"Alien Taste\", where she is called in to investigate the FBI agent kidnappings. Of Hawaiian, Chinese and Russian ancestry, she is often described by Ukiah as serene. The Pack call her his \"Lady of Steel,\" after she personally burned out several Ontongard nests when she thought that Ukiah had been killed.\n\nPrime was one of the alien Ontongard, but because of a mutation, he was not part of the hive mind. He rebelled against the other Ontongard and sabotaged their invasion of Earth, replacing Hex's genetic code with his own in the breeder program and destroying the scout ship before it could return and activate the invasion ship. Hex discovered his duplicity and they fought, though blood loss of both have left them with fractured memories of the encounter. Before dying, Prime managed to infect a wolf, Coyote, with his blood, turning him into a Get.\n\nCoyote, as Prime's Get, continued the war against the Ontongard, eventually taking human shape. He fought alone for many years, though no one is quite sure how long, since he never attained a firm grasp of the concept of time. Though he had planned to never make any Gets, he eventually realized the necessity.\n\nRennie Shaw was Coyote's first Get, and is the leader of the Pack as a whole, and the Dog Warriors in particular. He was a soldier in the Civil War, and Coyote discovered him trapped under a horse and dying. Rennie allowed Coyote to make him a Get so that he could return to his family, but when he received the Pack's collective memories, he gave up his personal life to fight the Ontongard and never saw his family again. His first appearance is in \"Alien Taste\".\n\nHex is the Ontongard on Earth; while the Ontongard are a collective hive mind, communication between parts is limited by distance. Because of this, Hex is unable to communicate with Ontongard off of Earth, and unable to communicate with other parts of himself in distant cities except via human technology such as the telephone. Hex's goal is to take over Earth, but he has been locked in a war with the Pack for decades.\n\nKittaning is Ukiah's \"son,\" though he was actually formed by one of Ukiah's blood mice. Hex had captured the mouse before Ukiah could reabsorb it, and tortured it to force it to grow into a human shape. While Kittaning had started out as part of Ukiah, he has lost most of his memories and gained a personality of his own. His first appearance is in \"Alien Taste\". He is kidnapped and takes on the form of a puppy in \"Bitter Waters\".\n\nSamual Anne Killington (\"My parents were twisted,\" she says in explanation of the name) is a Pendleton, Oregon-based private investigator whom Ukiah and Max meet while investigating the disappearance of Alicia Kraynak. She offers to help them track the girl, and she and Max develop feelings for each other. She moved to Pendleton with her ex-husband and agrees to move to Pittsburgh and accept a job with Max's private investigation firm on a trial basis. When she arrives in Pittsburgh, she's angry to find out that Max is a multi-millionaire but didn't see fit to mention it. Her first appearance is in \"Tainted Trail\".\n\nMom Jo and Mom Lara are Ukiah's adoptive lesbian mothers. Mom Jo found him in a humane trap when she was studying wolves in Oregon for a master's degree and the two brought him home to Pittsburgh. Mom Lara had brain cancer, but was cured when she got some of Ukiah's half-alien blood. They also have a biological daughter, Callie.\n\nRaymond Kraynak, a homicide detective and a friend of Max's from the Gulf War, is the detective that called them in on the Janet Haze case (\"Alien Taste\"). He is also one of the few people who knows Ukiah's secret. He hires Max and Ukiah to find his niece when she disappears in Oregon, and is caught by the Ontongard while looking for her. Ukiah and the Pack manage to save him after finding the Ontongard scout ship and reversing the process. His first appearance is in \"Alien Taste\".\n\nAlicia Kraynak disappears in Oregon, while on a graduate project (and spending her free time looking for Ukiah's family). Kidnapped by the Ontongard, she's turned in their attempt to refill their ranks after Ukiah, Indigo and the Pack clean them out of Pittsburgh. Ukiah and the Pack manage to save her after they find the scout ship, but don't reverse the process soon enough to get rid of Hex's memories. Later in the series, she visits a hypnotist and, under hypnosis, reveals some of Hex's plans for Earth's conquest. She also had feelings for Ukiah, revealed during her kidnapping. Her first appearance is in \"Tainted Trail\".\n\nMagic Boy was the original breeder created by Prime. He is passed down through the Kicking Deer family, helping to raise their children, but he is not permitted to marry because he never received a spirit animal, and could not be considered a man until he did. In 1933, Magic Boy was discovered by the Ontongard and murdered and dismembered, but they were discovered before they had the chance to burn him or capture any of his parts. By the time his family was able to get the police, his body parts had reformed into animals and scattered. The police declared that no body meant no crime, and refused to investigate, presumably because Magic Boy was Native American.\n\nJesse Kicking Deer is an old man by the time Ukiah meets him. He offered a reward for information on the Umatilla Wolf Boy (Ukiah), but Max discounted the story because Ukiah wasn't old enough (or so he thought). While in the same area of Oregon where Ukiah was discovered to find Alicia Kraynak, Max encouraged Ukiah to follow up on the information, and Ukiah learns about himself from Jesse and his family.\n\nZoey Kicking Deer, Ukiah's young (and distant) cousin, is the first to believe he is Magic Boy. A candy-striper at the local hospital, she recovers his blood so that the doctors won't find out how different he is. She is kidnapped by the Ontongard at the same time as Kraynak, and turned, but Ukiah and the Pack save her using the scout ship. She has no memories of her time as Ontongard. Her first appearance is in \"Tainted Trail\".\n\nJared Kicking Deer is the sheriff of Pendleton and Zoe's older brother. He doesn't believe Ukiah at first, and is hostile toward him, but eventually comes to accept him as Magic Boy. He is kidnapped by the Pack and turned into a Get after it is revealed that he knows about the Ontongard. He helped Ukiah recover Zoe and the Kraynaks and reverse the Ontongard infection. He chooses to stay part of the Pack after Ukiah offers to reverse his infection as well. His first appearance is in \"Tainted Trail\".\n\nCassidy Kicking Deer is Ukiah's distant cousin and the owner of a hardware store. She is the second Kicking Deer to believe that he's Magic Boy, after she compares a photo of Ukiah to a photograph of Magic Boy the family donated to a museum. Her first appearance is in \"Tainted Trail\".\n\nAtticus Steele is Ukiah's \"brother.\" Atticus is a DEA agent investigating a drug-dealing motorcycle gang that has connections to the Pack when he meets Ukiah for the first time. When Magic Boy was killed, his body parts became animals and scattered, leaving behind Ukiah and Little Slow Magic. Yet another part became Atticus Steele, whose story is told in \"Dog Warrior\" in an interesting examination of how \"nature vs. nurture\" makes him different from his \"brother\" Ukiah. Atticus has difficulty trusting Ukiah at first, because of the nature of their first meeting, and his \"testing\" by the Pack. Atticus is also plagued by guilt; he and Ukiah may have been together at first, but Atticus left Ukiah behind in the woods to find a family.\n\nHikaru Takahashi is Atticus's partner and lover. He and Atticus met in college. 'Ru accepts Ukiah long before Atticus does, but only after \"testing\" him. His first appearance is in \"Dog Warrior\".\n\nKyle Johnson is the third member of Atticus's team. He is the tech wizard and back-up of the group. He develops a crush on Indigo, and is greatly disappointed to find out that she is dating Ukiah. His first appearance is in \"Dog Warrior\".\n"}
{"id": "2058911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2058911", "title": "MidAmerica Nazarene University", "text": "MidAmerica Nazarene University\n\nMidAmerica Nazarene University (MNU) is a private Nazarene liberal arts college in Olathe, Kansas. It was established in 1966.\n\nMid-America Nazarene College (MANC) was founded in 1966. In 1996 Mid-America Nazarene College formally changed its name to MidAmerica Nazarene University (MNU).\n\nThe campus is located at 2030 East College Way, Olathe, Kansas, United States. The land was donated by Robert R. Osborne, a retired banker. Proposed sites for the college also included Wichita, Topeka, and Ottawa, Kansas.\n\nAs one of eight U.S. liberal arts colleges affiliated with the Church of the Nazarene, the college receives financial backing from the Nazarene churches in its region. Part of each church budget is paid in to a fund for its regional school. Each college is also bound by a gentlemen's agreement not to actively recruit outside its respective educational region. MNU is the college for the North Central Region of the United States, which comprises the Dakota-Minnesota, Nebraska, Kansas, Iowa, Kansas City, Joplin, and Missouri districts.\n\nMNU is a member of the Council for Christian Colleges and Universities (CCCU) and the National Association of Independent Colleges and Universities (NAICU). MNU has been accredited by the Commission on Institutions of Higher Education of the North Central Association of Colleges and Schools since 1974.\n\nMNU offers undergraduate degrees in 40 majors, and seven graduate degrees in education and business. More than half of the full-time faculty at Mid-America Nazarene hold doctoral degrees. The academic calendar is on a semester system. There were 1,720 students at the college in 2007, 1,295 of whom were undergraduates. The 2007 acceptance rate for students who applied to the college was 81.1 percent.\n\nThe athletic nickname is \"Pioneers\" and the colors are scarlet, white, and navy blue. MNU has men's and women's varsity teams in nine different sports. The teams compete in the National Association of Intercollegiate Athletics (NAIA) Division I Heart of America Athletic Conference (HAAC). MNU's athletic facilities include Cook Center (men's and women's basketball, and volleyball in the Bell Family Arena), Land Gym (intramurals), MNU Soccer Field, Pioneer Stadium (torn down summer 2012), Robbie Jones Field at Dixon Stadium (baseball), and Williams Field (softball).\n\nThe men's basketball team won the NAIA Division II basketball championship in 2007 and was the runner up in 2001. The team has been coached by Rocky Lamar (a 1976 MNU graduate) since 1986. It placed second in the NCCAA men's basketball championships in 1997 and 1998. Including its NAIA title games it has appeared in the Final Four in 2001, 2006, 2007, 2008 and 2009. It moved up to Division I in 2009. The court in the Bell Family Arena is named “Rocky Lamar Court.”.\n\nThe women's basketball team, coached by Jon Lewis, won the NAIA Division I National Basketball Championship in 2016.\n\nEnrollment comprises approximately 1,300 undergraduate and 200 graduate students, mostly from the North Central United States. Men and women are fairly equal in number. Over 25 percent of undergraduate students are over 25 years old. Members of the traditional undergraduate population who do not live locally with relatives must reside in campus housing. Students also attend chapel services and must follow the college's policy of no smoking, drinking, gambling or sex. Students participate in religious and service organizations, musical and theatrical groups, publications, intramural sports, and varsity sports.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2058914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2058914", "title": "Pan-Armenian National Movement", "text": "Pan-Armenian National Movement\n\nThe Pan-Armenian National Movement or Armenian All-national Movement ( \"Hayots Hamazgain Sharzhum\"; HHS) was a political party in Armenia.\n\nThe party emerged from the resolution of the Nagorno Karabakh Autonomous Council of February 20, 1988, to reunite with Soviet Armenia. Its first meetings, which demanded reunification, were held in Yerevan on February 21, 1988. Its ruling committee led by Igor Muradyan was organized in the same month, and Levon Ter-Petrossian incorporated in the ruling body in May 1988. On June 15, 1988, under the pressure and with representation of the movement in the Armenian Supreme Soviet, this body adopted positive resolution on reunification of two national units. The PANM became the ruling party when it swept the 1990 elections. The party lost its majority when Ter-Petrossian resigned as president of the republic in 1998 and became an opposition party. It is now without parliamentary representation.\n\nPan-Armenian National Movement spearheaded the formation of Armenian National Congress, a wide opposition coalition of many opposition Armenian parties headed by Levon Ter-Petrossian in opposition to the ruling governmental coalition headed by Armenian President Serzh Sargsyan.\n\nThe party was last led by Aram Manukyan. Since 2010 the party had been a member of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe Party (ALDE Party). The party officially dissolved in 2013.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2058917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2058917", "title": "Paul Flynn (hurler)", "text": "Paul Flynn (hurler)\n\nPaul Flynn (born 17 December 1974) is an Irish retired hurler and soccer player who was best known as a left wing-forward for the Waterford senior team. He joined the team in 1993 and was a regular member of the starting fifteen until his retirement in 2008.\n\nFlynn is Waterford's top championship scorer of all-time. He has won three Munster winners' medals, one National League winners' medal and one All-Star award. He ended up as an All-Ireland runner-up on one occasion.\n\nAt club level Flynn is a one-time Munster medalist with Ballygunner. In addition to this he has won eight county club championship medals.\n\nFlynn also won schoolboy international caps as a soccer goalkeeper will being a trainee with Aston Villa he also played a season with Waterford United F.C. in the League of Ireland.\n\nA former manager of the Carlow under-21 hurling team, Flynn is currently a selector of the Waterford under-21 hurling team.\n\nFlynn won a GUI senior cup medal in 2014 with Tramore in Carton House, Maynooth.\n\nThe hurling 20/20 committee released their recommendations on 6 January 2015 Flynn was part of The group set up by GAA President Liam O'Neill.\n\nFlynn plays his club hurling with the Ballygunner club in Waterford and has enjoyed much success.\n\nIn 1992 Flynn was still a minor when he won his first county club championship medal following a 1–12 to 2–7 defeat of Mount Sion. It was the club's first title in twenty-four years.\n\nBallygunner surrendered their club title the following year, but were back in the final again in 1995 to face Mount Sion. Flynn played in a match that finished all square but missed Ballygunner's 3–13 to 1–17 replay victory due to suspension, having been sent off in an under-21 match between the drawn match and the replay. It was the first of three county final victories in-a-row for Ballygunner, defeating Lismore in 1996 and Passage in 1997.\n\nFour club titles in-a-row proved beyond Ballygunner, however, the club bounced back in 1999 with Flynn winning a fifth county championship medal following a five-point defeat of old rivals Mount Sion.\n\nAfter a defeat by Mount Sion in the championship decider in 2000, Flynn secured a sixth championship medal in 2001 when Ballygunner accounted for Lismore. He later claimed a Munster winners' medal after his club accounted for Blackrock in the provincial final.\n\nAfter the high of winning the provincial title Ballygunner went on to lose three club championship finals in succession. They broke this unenviable record at the fourth attempt with Flynn winning a seventh county championship medal following a 2–10 to 1–12 defeat of De La Salle.\n\nBallygunner lost two further finals in succession before Flynn won his eight championship medal in 2009 following a one-point defeat of Lismore after a draw and a replay.\n\nFlynn first came to prominence on the inter-county scene as a member of the Waterford minor and under-21 teams. In 1992, he won a Munster medal in the minor grade following an exciting two-game saga with provincial kingpins Tipperary. Waterford later qualified for the All-Ireland final, however, Galway were far superior on the day and had an easy 1–13 to 2–4 victory.\n\nThat same year saw Flynn play a key role with the Waterford under-21 team. He came on as a substitute to win a Munster medal in that grade before later lining out in the All-Ireland final. Offaly provided the opposition on that occasion, however, the game ended in a draw. The replay saw Waterford take the title by 0–12 to 2–3 and Flynn collected an All-Ireland under-21 medal.\n\nFlynn added a second Munster under-21 title to his collection in 1994, however, there would be no further All-Ireland success.\n\nFlynn's performances at underage levels brought him to the attention of the senior selectors and he made his senior debut in the 1993 championship. It was a less than auspicious start to Flynn's hurling career as Waterford were defeated by the minnows of Kerry in the opening round of the Munster championship. It was one of the lowest points in Waterford hurling.\n\nIn 1998 Flynn played in his first Munster final in the senior grade. Waterford held All-Ireland champions Clare to a draw in the Munster final, however, the Decies lost the replay. Flynn's side later faced Kilkenny in what would be the county's first All Ireland semi final appearance in Croke Park since 1963. Kilkenny won by a single point.\n\nIn 2002 Waterford emerged from the doldrums by reaching the Munster final once again. Flynn was the game's top scorer as he collected his first Munster winners' medal as Waterford defeated Tipperary by 2–23 to 3–12. It was their first provincial crown in thirty-nine years. Waterford's hurling odyssey came to an end in the All-Ireland semi-final.\n\nAfter surrendering the Munster title to Cork in 2003, Flynn's side were back in the provincial showpiece for a third successive year in 2004. In one of the greatest games of all-time Waterford defeated Cork in a Munster final for the first time in forty-five years to take the title by 3–16 to 1–21. One of the highlights of a game that had everything was a Flynn goal from a close-in free. An All-Ireland appearance subsequently eluded the team yet again. In spite of this there was some consolation at the end of the year as Flynn won his sole All-Star award.\n\nThe following few years proved difficult for Flynn. Waterford crashed out of the early stages of the provincial championship in 2005 and 2006. On both these occasions his team was defeated by Cork in the All-Ireland series.\n\nIn 2007 Flynn added a National Hurling League medal to his collection when Waterford defeated Kilkenny by 0–20 to 0–18 in the final. He later claimed a third Munster winners' medal as Waterford defeated Limerick by 3–17 to 1–14 in the provincial decider. While Waterford were viewed as possibly going on and winning the All-Ireland title for the first time in almost half a century, Limerick ambushed Waterford in the All-Ireland semi-final.\n\n2008 began poorly for Waterford as the team lost their opening game to Clare as well as their manager Justin McCarthy. In spite of this poor start Flynn's side reached the All-Ireland final for the first time in forty-five years. Kilkenny provided the opposition and went on to defeat Waterford by 3–30 to 1–13 to claim a third All-Ireland title in-a-row. Following this defeat Flynn brought the curtain down on his inter-county career.\n\nFlynn was also a regular on the Munster team at various times between 1994 and 2000. He won two Railway Cup medals on the field of play in 1994 and 2000, while also claiming a third as a non-playing substitute in 1996.\n\nAfter retiring from playing Flynn took up his first management role when he took over the Carlow under-21 hurling team in 2011.\n\nHis first season in charge ended with a four-goal drubbing by Dublin in the opening round of the championship.\n\nIn 2012 Flynn's side had high hopes of qualifying for the Leinster final, however, Laois defeated Carlow by just a single point in the provincial semi-final.\n\nIt was announced in November 2012 that Flynn was to join Gerard Monan's back-room team with the Down senior hurling team for the 2013 season.\n\n\n\n\n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "2058922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2058922", "title": "KUHF", "text": "KUHF\n\nKUHF (branded as News 88.7) is a public radio station serving Greater Houston metropolitan area. It broadcasts on a frequency of 88.7 megahertz on the FM dial. The station is owned by and licensed to the University of Houston System, and is operated by Houston Public Media. KUHF is housed in the Melcher Center for Public Broadcasting, along with KUHT, on the campus of the University of Houston. Local productions include \"The Engines of Our Ingenuity\".\n\nKUHF first began airing programs on November 6, 1950, at the 91.3 Megahertz frequency. The studios were located in the Ezekiel W. Cullen Building on the University of Houston campus. KUHT co-located with KUHF when the television station debuted in 1953. Broadcasting at 9,600 watts, the station was operated by student volunteers. In 1964, KUHF and KUHT moved to the former KNUZ-TV studios that were vacated by KTRK-TV a few years earlier. This studio would host both stations for the next 35 years, until the move across campus to the current Melcher Center for Public Broadcasting in 2000. The station increased its signal strength to 12,000 watts in 1969.\n\nIn 1970, the station began the new decade by switching frequencies to 88.7 Megahertz, in order to reduce interference with KLYX (now KMJQ). The station finally began broadcasting at 100,000 watts in 1979, after receiving a grant from the Corporation for Public Broadcasting. This grant also allowed the station to hire a professional staff, as well as become a National Public Radio member station. KPFT granted a request to relinquish its right to KUHF, to broadcast NPR content.\n\nBetween 1979 and March, 1986, KUHF's format was NPR news and jazz. In March 1986 local commercial classical music station KLEF changed its format and donated its 12,000+ disc library of music to KUHF, with the proviso that the University of Houston commit KUHF to a format that served Houston's classical music audience, recently disfranchised by the loss of KLEF. The broadcasting of classical music was explained by citing that the charter of KUHF was to provide music unavailable, otherwise, to Houston. KUHF began airing classical music during the day and late night jazz from 10pm to 5am, with NPR news in the morning and afternoon drive time hours. During the summer, former KLEF Operations Manager John Proffitt was hired as the new General Manager for KUHF, and he arrived at his new position on August 3. After the next on-air fundraiser in October, which was aimed at NPR, classical and jazz listeners, KUHF eliminated its remaining jazz broadcasting. KUHF GM Proffitt defended eliminating several genres of jazz from Houston radio on the basis that the number of daytime classical listeners far exceeded the overnight number of jazz listeners.\n\nOn August 21, 2000, KUHT moved to its current studios in the LeRoy and Lucile Melcher Center for Public Broadcasting on the campus of the University of Houston, where KUHF shares broadcast facilities with public radio station KUHT – both owned by and licensed to the University of Houston System – where the complex is located. The previous facility is now in use by the university's Texas Learning and Computation Center.\n\nUntil the 2011 creation of all-classical sister station KUHA (see below), the format on FM 88.7 consisted primarily of classical music and news programming from National Public Radio and American Public Media. Since May 2011, 88.7 is exclusively devoted to news and public affairs; to this end, programs such as \"Fresh Air\", \"Talk of the Nation\" and \"The Diane Rehm Show\" were added to the regular daytime schedule. In addition, KUHF airs many public radio staples, such as \"Car Talk\" and \"A Prairie Home Companion\".\n\nIn September 2006, to accommodate the growing demand for an all-NPR news and information service, KUHF began broadcasting in HD Radio offering three channels of digital programming in addition to the analog FM: HD channel one offered the same programming as was heard on FM, while HD channel two was a \"mirror\" of FM/HD-1 by offering classical music during times the other channel played news and informational programming, and vice versa. In this fashion, KUHF HD listeners could receive either NPR news/information or classical music any time of day or night, 24/7. Since KUHA's shutdown in July 2016, KUHF 88.7FM and HD-1 feature NPR news/information exclusively, 24 hours a day, and HD-2 features classical music (exclusively from Classical 24 since November 7, 2013). The HD-2 channel was a simulcast of KUHA from May 2011 until May 2016, when the simulcast broke off in preparation of the sale to the KSBJ Educational Foundation. KUHA began airing delayed repeats of 88.7 HD-2's programming several hours or days after it had aired on 88.7 HD-2. HD Channel 3 carries a mixture of XPoNential Radio, an Adult album alternative station provided by Philadelphia-based public radio station WXPN, and the BBC World Service.\n\nOn August 17, 2010, the University of Houston System announced its intent to purchase the broadcast tower, FM frequency and license of KTRU (91.7 FM) from Rice University. UH then moved all of KUHF's classical music programming to the 91.7 frequency under the call letters KUHA, allowing KUHF to become a full-time NPR news and talk station. (originally announced as KUHC, but those call letters were already in use). The FCC approved the purchase and transfer of license to the University of Houston System on April 15, 2011. (KTRU programming was transferred to a digital subchannel of local Pacifica Radio member station KPFT, and continues under the name \"Rice Radio\".) The new split programming began on May 16, 2011. Non-news entertainment programming, such as Snap Judgment, A Prairie Home Companion and the radio version of America's Test Kitchen, airs on weekends.\n\nDue to a fundraising shortfall, KUHA fired almost all of its on-air talent on November 7, 2013 and replaced nearly all of its locally produced programming with Public Radio International's Classical 24, a nationally syndicated program produced in Minnesota.\n\nOn March 3, 2014, Houston Public Radio's KUHF and KUHA (owned by the university at the time, now KSBJ-owned KXNG), along with Houston PBS KUHT, were all rebranded into Houston Public Media. The station dropped the \"Houston Public Radio\" name to assume the new name.\n\nFour and a half years later, in August 2015, The University of Houston System announced its intention to sell KUHA and move the classical format to the HD2 subcarrier of KUHF and internet streaming only. KUHT's fifth digital subchannel would also continue to simulcast the format. It was announced the following February that KUHA would be sold to the KSBJ Educational Foundation, who announced plans to change the format of KUHA to Christian hip hop music. KUHA ceased broadcasting classical music on July 14 and started stunting with looped announcements informing listeners of KUHA's demise and the continuation of the format on KUHF-HD2 and other digital platforms. The following morning, on July 15, the sale closed and KUHA (now KXNG) went dark.\n\n"}
{"id": "2058934", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2058934", "title": "Athleague", "text": "Athleague\n\nAthleague () is a village and a parish in the Diocese of Elphin on the River Suck in the west of Ireland in County Roscommon, near the town of Roscommon. \n\nIts church was founded sometime around 500 by Maenucan Atha Liacc ('Maonagán of Athleague'). The name is derived from \"Áth Liag\" ('the ford of the flagstones'), indicating its use as a crossing point between the kingdoms of the Uí Maine and Uí Briúin.\n\nIt is on the junction of the N63 national route and the R357 regional road. The town has a mill and a restored church. The church is the local parish for the surrounding towns. It is mentioned a number of times in the Annals of Connacht, the Annals of Lough Cé and the Annals of the Four Masters.\n\nThere were two graveyards in the parish of Athleague, one in the townland of Coolaspaddaun and one in that of Monasternalea. Monasternalea is sometimes referred to as Abbeygrey.\n\nThe parish serves the townlands in County Galway that abut with County Roscommon.\n\nFrom the Annals of Inisfallen\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2058936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2058936", "title": "Ceefax (album)", "text": "Ceefax (album)\n\nCeefax is the debut full-length album by Fridge, released 10 March 1997. The CD digipack case is natural-tone paper colour, with clear ink on the front, which is only visible when viewed at certain angles; track listings and other liner notes are on the album spine. The album is notable for the fact that it contains three short tracks, \"EDM\", \"EDM 2\", and \"EDM3\", that are influenced by drum and bass.\n\n"}
{"id": "2058946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2058946", "title": "Semaphore (album)", "text": "Semaphore (album)\n\nSemaphore is the second studio album by Fridge, released on 16 March 1998.\n\n"}
{"id": "2058953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2058953", "title": "Happiness (Fridge album)", "text": "Happiness (Fridge album)\n\nHappiness is a studio album by the rock band Fridge. It was released in 2001 on Text Records.\n\n"}
{"id": "2058968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2058968", "title": "Denis Akiyama", "text": "Denis Akiyama\n\nDenis Van Akiyama (May 28, 1952 – June 28, 2018) was a Japanese–Canadian actor and voice actor, best known as providing the voice of Iceman/Bobby Drake, Silver Samurai/Kenuichio Harada and Sunfire in \"X-Men\" and Malachite in the original English version of \"Sailor Moon\". He played Shinji in \"Johnny Mnemonic\".\n\nAkiyama was born in Toronto, Ontario, Canada. He was also a frequent guest star on \"Katts and Dog\". In 2015, he appeared in the film \"Pixels\".\nDenis Akiyama was also a gifted musician having played trumpet in The Pukka Orchestra\n\nAkiyama died on June 28, 2018, from a \"very rare and aggressive cancer\". He and his wife Danielle had two children, Kintaro and Miya.He was 66 years old.\n\n"}
{"id": "2058985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2058985", "title": "A Touch of Fever", "text": "A Touch of Fever\n\nIt was shot on 16 millimeter film with a small budget and no payment for the actors or the director. It was awarded a PFF Scholarship (which supports the production of one film for theatrical release each year). It was then screened in Berlin Film Festival.\n\nTatsuru and Shinichirō are two young male hustlers in Japan. The older one, Tatsuru, disconnects himself from his emotions in order to perform his job. The younger Shinichirō, meanwhile, grows uncomfortable with the work once he has fallen in love with Tatsuru. After Shinichirō gets thrown out of his parents' house, he stays at Tatsuru's apartment, and their once casual relationship awkwardly develops into something else.\n\n\n\"A Touch of Fever\" earned a 63% audience approval rating at online movie critic site Rotten Tomatoes, based on 365 reviews.\n\nThe film was a commercial success, surprising given its subject matter. It was nothing less than a breakthrough for real life gay-oriented films in Japan, as well as \"Okoge\" (1992) and \"Kira kira Hikaru\" (also known as \"Twinkle\") in 1992. The film also introduced the word 'gay' into Japanese society.\n"}
{"id": "2058987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2058987", "title": "Thomas Noguchi", "text": "Thomas Noguchi\n\nNoguchi was born in Fukuoka Prefecture, raised in Yokosuka and graduated from Tokyo's Nippon Medical School in 1951 before interning at The University of Tokyo School of Medicine Hospital. Shortly thereafter he emigrated to the United States. He then served a second internship at Orange County General Hospital and a series of residencies at Loma Linda University School of Medicine, and Barlow Sanatorium in Los Angeles. He was appointed a deputy coroner for Los Angeles County in 1961.\n\nIn 1967, he became Chief Medical Examiner (CME) for the county, replacing his mentor Theodore Curphey. As CME, Noguchi came to public attention for a series of autopsies; which he performed or supervised on a range of celebrities and public figures that included Albert Dekker, Robert F. Kennedy, Sharon Tate, Janis Joplin, Inger Stevens, Gia Scala, David Janssen, William Holden, Natalie Wood, Marilyn Monroe, and John Belushi. His autopsy of Kennedy concluded that the fatal shot was fired into the back of Kennedy's head, behind the right ear, from an upward angle, and from a distance of no more than 0.5 to 3 inches (15–75 mm) away. Such a finding has given rise to conspiracy theories regarding the assassination, as no witnesses reported seeing the convicted assassin, Sirhan Sirhan, any closer to Kennedy than 1 meter away and in a position to fire such a shot. Noguchi himself points out in his memoir \"Coroner\" that he has never officially ruled that Sirhan fired the fatal shot.\n\nHe developed a high profile as CME, and was often accused of speaking too freely to the media, particularly following the November 1981 deaths of William Holden and Natalie Wood, which, along with moonlighting and alleged mismanagement, led to his demotion from coroner to physician specialist in 1982. He was later appointed Chief of Pathology at the University of Southern California and then as Administrative Pathologist for Anatomic Pathology services at the USC Medical Center.\n\nNoguchi was appointed professor by both the University of Southern California and UCLA. He is a past president of the American National Association of Medical Examiners. In 1999 he was honored by the Emperor of Japan who awarded him the Order of the Sacred Treasure for his \"outstanding contributions to Japan in the area of forensic science\". He retired the same year.\n\n, Noguchi is the president of World Association for Medical Law (WAML), which is a medical body founded in 1967 to encourage the study of health law, legal medicine, and bioethics.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2058989", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2058989", "title": "Bokhara Trumpeter", "text": "Bokhara Trumpeter\n\nThe Bokhara Trumpeter is a breed of fancy pigeon developed over many years of selective breeding. Bokhara Trumpeters, along with other varieties of domesticated pigeons, are all descendants from the rock pigeon (\"Columba livia\").\nThe breed is known for its long muffed (feathered) feet and double crest.\n\nOne of the most popular breeds of Trumpeter in the U.S., the Bokhara Trumpeter is most noticeably characterized by its lengthy full muffs (feathers on the feet) and double crest which completely obscures the bird's eyes and gives it a look reminiscent of the Old English Sheepdog. The trumpeting breeds of pigeon are so named because of their unique vocalizations which sound vaguely like low laughter.\n\nWendell Levi describes this trumpeting vocalization in his book \"The Pigeon\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2058995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2058995", "title": "Scientific community metaphor", "text": "Scientific community metaphor\n\nIn computer science, the scientific community metaphor is a metaphor used to aid understanding scientific communities. The first publications on the scientific community metaphor in 1981 and 1982 involved the development of a programming language named Ether that invoked procedural plans to process goals and assertions concurrently by dynamically creating new rules during program execution. Ether also addressed issues of conflict and contradiction with multiple sources of knowledge and multiple viewpoints.\n\nThe scientific community metaphor builds on the philosophy, history and sociology of science. It was originally developed building on work in the philosophy of science by Karl Popper and Imre Lakatos. In particular, it initially made use of Lakatos' work on proofs and refutations. Subsequently, development has been influenced by the work of Geof Bowker, Michel Callon, Paul Feyerabend, Elihu M. Gerson, Bruno Latour, John Law, Karl Popper, Susan Leigh Star, Anselm Strauss, and Lucy Suchman.\n\nIn particular Latour's \"Science in Action\" had great influence. In the book, Janus figures make paradoxical statements about scientific development. An important challenge for the scientific community metaphor is to reconcile these paradoxical statements.\n\nScientific research depends critically on monotonicity, concurrency, commutativity, and pluralism to propose, modify, support, and oppose scientific methods, practices, and theories. \nQuoting from Carl Hewitt, scientific community metaphor systems have characteristics of \"monotonicity\", \"concurrency\", \"commutativity\", \"pluralism\", \"skepticism\" and \"provenance\".\n\nThe above characteristics are limited in real scientific communities. Publications are sometimes lost or difficult to retrieve. Concurrency is limited by resources including personnel and funding. Sometimes it is easier to rederive a result than to look it up. Scientists only have so much time and energy to read and try to understand the literature. Scientific fads sometimes sweep up almost everyone in a field. The order in which information is received can influence how it is processed. Sponsors can try to control scientific activities. In Ether the semantics of the kinds of activity described in this paragraph are governed by the actor model.\n\nScientific research includes generating theories and processes for modifying, supporting, and opposing these theories. Karl Popper called the process \"conjectures and refutations\", which although expressing a core insight, has been shown to be too restrictive a characterization by the work of Michel Callon, Paul Feyerabend, Elihu M. Gerson, Mark Johnson, Thomas Kuhn, George Lakoff, Imre Lakatos, Bruno Latour, John Law, Susan Leigh Star, Anselm Strauss, Lucy Suchman, Ludwig Wittgenstein, \"etc.\". Three basic kinds of participation in Ether are proposing, supporting, and opposing. Scientific communities are structured to support competition as well as cooperation.\n\nThese activities affect the adherence to approaches, theories, methods, \"etc.\" in scientific communities. Current adherence does not imply adherence for all future time. Later developments will modify and extend current understandings. Adherence is a local rather than a global phenomenon. No one speaks for the scientific community as a whole.\n\nOpposing ideas may coexist in communities for centuries. On rare occasions a community reaches a \"breakthrough\" that clearly decides an issue previously muddled.\n\nEther used \"viewpoints\" to relativist information in publications. However a great deal of information is shared across viewpoints. So Ether made use of \"inheritance\" so that information in a viewpoint could be readily used in other viewpoints. Sometimes this inheritance is not exact as when the laws of physics in Newtonian mechanics are derived from those of Special Relativity. In such cases Ether used \"translation\" instead of inheritance. Bruno Latour has analyzed translation in scientific communities in the context of actor network theory. Imre Lakatos studied very sophisticated kinds of translations of mathematical (\"e.g.\", the Euler formula for polyhedra) and scientific theories.\n\nViewpoints were used to implement natural deduction (Fitch [1952]) in Ether. In order to prove a goal of the form (P \"implies\" Q) in a viewpoint V, it is sufficient to create a new viewpoint V' that inherits from V, assert P in V', and then prove Q in V'. An idea like this was originally introduced into programming language proving by Rulifson, Derksen, and Waldinger [1973] except since Ether is concurrent rather than being sequential it does not rely on being in a single viewpoint that can be sequentially pushed and popped to move to other viewpoints.\n\nUltimately resolving issues among these viewpoints are matters for negotiation (as studied in the sociology and philosophy of science by Geof Bowker, Michel Callon, Paul Feyerabend, Elihu M. Gerson, Bruno Latour, John Law, Karl Popper, Susan Leigh Star, Anselm Strauss, Lucy Suchman, etc.).\n\nAlan Turing was one of the first to attempt to more precisely characterize \"individual\" intelligence through the notion of his famous Turing Test. This paradigm was developed and deepened in the field of Artificial Intelligence. Allen Newell and Herbert A. Simon did pioneer work in analyzing the protocols of individual human problem solving behavior on puzzles. More recently Marvin Minsky has developed the idea that the mind of an individual human is composed of a society of agents in Society of Mind (see the analysis by Push Singh).\n\nThe above research on individual human problem solving is \"complementary\" to the scientific community metaphor.\n\nSome developments in hardware and software technology for the Internet are being applied in light of the scientific community metaphor.\n\nLegal concerns (\"e.g.\", HIPAA, Sarbanes-Oxley, \"The Books and Records Rules\" in SEC Rule 17a-3/4 and \"Design Criteria Standard for Electronic Records Management Software Applications\" in DOD 5015.2 in the U.S.) are leading organizations to store information monotonically forever. It has just now become less costly in many cases to store information on magnetic disk than on tape. With increasing storage capacity, sites can monotonically record what they read from the Internet as well as monotonically recording their own operations.\n\nSearch engines currently provide rudimentary access to all this information. Future systems will provide interactive question answering broadly conceived that will make all this information much more useful.\n\nMassive concurrency (\"i.e.,\" Web services and multi-core computer architectures) lies in the future posing enormous challenges and opportunities for the scientific community metaphor. In particular, the scientific community metaphor is being used in client cloud computing.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2058997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2058997", "title": "Sharon Sayles Belton", "text": "Sharon Sayles Belton\n\nSharon Sayles Belton (born May 13, 1951) is an American community leader, politician and activist. She is Vice President of Community Relations and Government Affairs for Thomson Reuters Legal business.\n\nShe served as mayor of Minneapolis, Minnesota, from 1994 until 2001, the first African American and first woman to hold that position.\n\nSayles Belton was born in Saint Paul, Minnesota, as one of four daughters of Bill and Ethel Sayles. After her parents separated, she lived for one year with her mother in Richfield, Minnesota, where she was the only African American in East Junior High School, then moved to south Minneapolis to live with her father and stepmother. She attended Central High School in Minneapolis. She volunteered as a candy striper at Mount Sinai Hospital, and later worked as a nurse's aide. She served briefly a civil rights activist in the state of Mississippi. \n\nSayles Belton attended Macalester College in Saint Paul, where she studied biology and sociology. She later worked as a parole officer with victims of sexual assault. Like her grandfather Bill Sayles, she became a neighborhood activist.\nShe is married to Steven Belton, with whom she raised three children: Kilayna, Jordan, and Coleman.\n\nIn 1983, Sayles Belton was elected by the Eighth Ward to the Minneapolis City Council. She was inspired by working with mayor Donald M. Fraser. She represented the state at the 1984 Democratic National Convention, where Minnesota politician Walter Mondale was nominated for President of the United States. A member of the Minnesota Democratic-Farmer-Labor Party, Sayles Belton was elected city council president in 1990.\n\nIn 1993, she announced her candidacy for mayor. With the help of three phone banks and a staff of ten, she was elected, the first African American and the first woman mayor in the city's 140-year history. She defeated DFL former Hennepin County Commissioner John Derus. She was reelected in 1997, defeating Republican candidate Barbara Carlson. Sayles Belton held the position for two terms, from January 1, 1994, to December 31, 2001.\n\nW. Harry Davis, a fellow civil rights supporter and the city's first African-American mayoral candidate, said she had a difficult job ahead of her, \"because crime was running rampant\" in the mid-1990s. The city was able to reverse the crime wave by allocating resources to public safety from other departments and importing a computerized strategy used in New York City that sent officers to high crime areas. Although the initiative drew accusations of racial profiling, under police chief Robert Olson, the rate of serious crime had dropped 16% by 1998, the best one-year reduction in twenty years.\n\nSam Grabarski of a downtown business council told Minnesota Public Radio that Sayles Belton was capable of convincing investors that downtown is a \"safe haven for investments of the scale that it takes to build one million-square-foot office towers.\" She helped to bring a Target retail store, the U.S. Bancorp Center, and the American Express Business Center to the Nicollet Mall. She helped to create the Block E entertainment and shopping redevelopment on Hennepin Avenue, where for ten years a parking lot had occupied prime downtown real estate.\n\nThe city also addressed archaic utilities billing, outdated water treatment and neighborhood flooding. By the end of the decade, Minneapolis had increased property values, the city had its first increase in population since the 1940s, and there was reversal of a \"50-year economic slide.\" Fraser credits Sayles Belton with stabilizing neighborhoods amid racial tensions, supporting the school system, and being an able and savvy city manager. Critics opposed the use of city subsidies for downtown development, said to total $90 million combined for the Target store and Block E.\n\nSayles Belton continued to enjoy broad support from poorer constituents but lost popularity among the more affluent. In the 2001 election she lost her party's endorsement and the primary. She was defeated by R.T. Rybak, a fellow DFLer.\n\nAfter leaving the mayor's office, Sayles Belton became a senior fellow at the Roy Wilkins Center for Human Relations and Social Justice. The center is part of the Hubert H. Humphrey Institute of Public Affairs.\n\nMore recently, Sayles Belton worked in community affairs and community involvement for the GMAC Residential Finance Corporation, headquartered in Minneapolis. In 2010, she joined Thomson Reuters as vice president of Community Relations and Government Affairs, based in Eagan, Minnesota.\n\nSayles Belton is involved in race equality, community and neighborhood development, public policy, women's, family and children's issues, police-community relations and youth development. In 1978 she co-founded the Harriet Tubman Shelter for Battered Women in Minneapolis. She is a co-founder of the National Coalition Against Sexual Assault. She contributed to the Neighborhood Revitalization Program, Clean Water Partnership, Children's Healthcare and Hospital, the American Bar Association, the Bush Foundation, the United States Conference of Mayors, the National League of Cities, and Hennepin County Medical Center by chairing or serving on their boards.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2059005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059005", "title": "Adolf Stieler", "text": "Adolf Stieler\n\nAdolf Stieler (26 February 177513 March 1836) was a German cartographer and lawyer who worked most of his life in the Justus Perthes Geographical Institute in Gotha. Although he studied law and would serve in government for his entire career, he maintained an interest in cartography and published many famous works. His Handatlas was the leading German world atlas until the middle of the 20th century.\n\nStieler spent much of his early youth in Gotha, where his father was the mayor. In his adolescence, he showed an affinity for map-making, an interest he maintained throughout his adult life. However, he studied law at the University of Jena and the University of Göttingen from 1793 to 1796.\n\nHe served as a legation councillor in Gotha from 1813 to 1829, and served the remainder of his career as a counsel to the local government until his retirement in 1835.\n\nStieler's cartographic career began with a position as a geography teacher at a girls' school in Gotha. However, he began work with Franz Xaver von Zach, the director of the Gotha Observatory. His works during this period include publishing cartographic representations of a number of von Zach's observations. Such illustrations were completed in von Zach's \"Allgemeinen Geographischen Ephemeriden\" or \"General Geographical Ephemeris,\" published in 1798.\n\nIn 1804, Stieler worked in the Geographical Institute of Weimar, continuing his goal of starting a geographical publishing business.\n\nHe also produced a number of regional and international maps. With von Zach, Stieler published his \"Atlas Gaspari,\" which included maps of many European nations, including Spain, Portugal, and England. In 1806, his map of the East Indies was published. Later he would publish a 25 sheet military map of Germany that was part of a larger 204 sheet work. His maps were well known for their inclusion of new information from exploration and culture. He also incorporated a \"System der fortwährenden Modernisierung,\" or \"System of Ongoing Modernization,\" in his map creation and issuing.\n\nHowever, he began work on his most famous and long-lasting work, the Handatlas, in 1816 after a long hiatus from cartographic work. By 1826, when he completed the Handatlas, his career was nearing its end. His 1836 map of Germany would remain unfinished.\n\nIn addition to his contributions to cartography and law, Stieler also proposed mathematical methods in the insurance industry. He founded an insurance bank in 1828 with merchant and founder of Gothaer Versicherungsbank, Ernst-Wilhelm Arnoldi.\n\nStieler died on March 13, 1836, in Gotha. \nStieler had a significant impact on his contemporaries. Johann Christoph Bär, a protégé of Stieler's who also worked at the Justus Perthes Institute, continued much of Stieler's work after his death. Stieler's \"System der fortwährenden Modernisierung\" for maps was incorporated into Bär's Handatlas, completed with fellow cartographer Johann Friedrich von Stülpnagel. Bär's 1833 \"Das Herzogthum Gotha und umliegende Länder\" (The Duchy of Gotha and Surrounding Lands) also explained much of Stieler's style. Stülpnagel also supervised the completion of an edition of Stielers Handatlas.\n\nThe Handatlas became one of his most recognized and long-lasting works. Editions remained in print as late as 1945. Other works by Stieler also remained in print. The \"Neue Kriegskarte\", to which he contributed, had an edition in print as late as 1904.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2059006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059006", "title": "The New Hampshire", "text": "The New Hampshire\n\nThe New Hampshire (commonly known as TNH) is a weekly student-run newspaper headquartered at the University of New Hampshire (UNH). Since 1911, it has been published weekly on Thursdays during the academic year, with a printed circulation of 3,000 copies per issue. \"TNH\" is distributed for free in the Memorial Union Building, university housing and academic buildings, Durham businesses, and other locations around the southern New Hampshire seacoast area; the newspaper also publishes an online edition of the week's print edition.\n\nAs of January 2020\", TNH\" is tied for the oldest UNH publication on record with the former \"Granite\" student yearbook (1908–2017); both are 109 years old.\n\nThe first issue of \"The New Hampshire\", \"Volume 1, No. 1,\" was published on September 20, 1911, and sold for 5¢ a copy or $1 for a year-long subscription. It replaced \"The New Hampshire College Monthly\", a student magazine created in 1893 (and originally named \"The Enaichsee\"—\"The NHC\"—in its first year) by students of the Culver Literary Society. The first issue of \"The New Hampshire\" greeted students of the college (named the New Hampshire College of Agriculture and the Mechanic Arts prior to 1923) with the following proclamation:\n\"The \"College Monthly\" is dead, bound over and passes into the great beyond whence from it can never come back. Its last years were ones of strife and difficulty but the end came in quietness with all bills paid... However, that is gone and we are with this issue starting a new era in New Hampshire College. This first issue of \"The New Hampshire\" is one that is making history for it is the first-ever weekly newspaper that has ever been issued by the students of this college... \"The New Hampshire\" greets you! And we start with the feeling that we are at the beginning of a new epoch, vigorous, broad, and promising from this paper is bound to make the college better known to the world and more loved by its friends.\"\n\nIn May 1916, \"The New Hampshire\" urged NHC to illuminate the Thompson Hall tower clock, which had been installed in 1893. \"TNH\" even offered student assistance with the electrical wiring. NHC subsequently installed lights to illuminate the clock, which operates to this day.\n\nIn October 2011, \"The New Hampshire\" was awarded the \"Newspaper Pacemaker Award\" by the Associated Collegiate Press at the National College Media Convention in recognition of \"general excellence and outstanding achievement from a college newspaper in a national competition\" for its coverage of rising UNH tuition and related funding issues earlier that year.\n\n\"The New Hampshire\" comprises the following staff, according to the organization's official constitution:\n\n\nThe newspaper is currently printed off-campus by Seacoast Media Group. Prior to the 2005-06 academic year, \"TNH\" was printed by \"Foster's Daily Democrat\", part of Seacoast Newspapers, located in Stratham, New Hampshire.\n\n\"The New Hampshire\" is presently divided into four sections: News, Arts, Opinion and Sports. While \"TNH\" infrequently uses a tabloid-style layout, often reserved for its annual freshman orientation issue, the majority, if not all, of the organization's other issues rely on a broadsheet layout.\n\nRegular features in present editions of \"TNH\" include the \"Index\", which features a table of contents and weekly weather report; \"Student Senate update\", an overview of weekly meetings of the UNH Student Senate; and the current iteration of \"On the Spot\" segments consisting of one-on-one interviews with various students and faculty who have made a recent impact on the UNH community (not to be confused with the former \"On the Spot\" segment, which utilized a group of nine students answering an off-beat or humorous question).\n\nIn recent years, The New Hampshire has announced intentions to expand its digital presence, starting with the paper's \"Digital First\" initiative, kicked off on November 14, 2016 by then-Executive Editor Allison Bellucci. Since then, the paper has increased its social media presence, updated its website, and launched the TNH Podcast Network in February 2019 to invite more student media content to UNH. As of November 2019, the network has hosted two seasons of the basketball podcast \"HoopCats\".\n\nThe newspaper is primarily funded through advertising revenue while also receiving a subsidy from the University of New Hampshire Student Activity Fee Committee (SAFC).\n\n"}
{"id": "2059010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059010", "title": "Eph (album)", "text": "Eph (album)\n\nEph is an album by Fridge released Spring 1999. It was their first (and only) album for the Go! Beat label.\n\nThe album was reissued in North America in 2002 on Temporary Residence Limited with an additional CD consisting of two EPs released in the same year (\"Kinoshita Terasaka\" and remixes of \"Of\" by the band themselves), plus two more recent remixes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2059012", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059012", "title": "1945 Manitoba general election", "text": "1945 Manitoba general election\n\nThe 1945 Manitoba general election was held on October 15, 1945 to elect Members of the Legislative Assembly of the Province of Manitoba, Canada.\n\nThe 1945 provincial election was extremely different from the previous election, which was held in 1941. In the 1941 election, the province's four legal political parties were united in a coalition government—and while coalition partners ran against one another in some constituencies, the final outcome was never in doubt.\n\nBy 1945, the coalition had been reduced to three parties. The dominant party was the Liberal-Progressive Party, whose leader was Premier Stuart Garson. The Progressive Conservative Party of Errick Willis (formerly called the Conservative Party) was the junior partner in government, while the small Social Credit League and some independents also supported the coalition.\n\nThe social-democratic Co-operative Commonwealth Federation (CCF) left the coalition in 1943, and experienced a surge in popularity over the next two years. This party was the primary opposition to the coalition government in 1945. When Tommy Douglas's CCF won a landslide election victory in 1944 in neighbouring Saskatchewan, many believed that the Manitoba party had a chance of forming government.\n\nThe communist Labour Progressive Party, which had been banned in 1941, also contested the election against the coalition. A revived Socialist Party of Canada also fielded one candidate in Winnipeg.\n\nThe CCF experienced numerous difficulties during the campaign. Two of its incumbent members, Dwight Johnson and Beresford Richards, were accused of holding communist sympathies, and broke from the party to seek re-election as \"Independent CCF\" candidates. Party members were divided on the positions held by Johnson and Richards, and the CCF entered the campaign in a divided state. The party also suffered a series of unexpected technical problems: some candidates were unable to campaign because of late nomination filing, insufficient signatures on their nomination forms, and related reasons.\n\nThe result of the election was a landslide majority government for the coalition. Twenty-five Liberal-Progressives and thirteen Progressive Conservatives were elected, along with two Social Crediters and three independent coalitionists. This gave the coalition forty-three of fifty-seven seats. Most of the coalition's members were from rural constituencies.\n\nThe Cooperative Commonwealth Federation won four of ten seats in Winnipeg, but could not duplicate this success in the rest of the province. The party won only nine seats in total, up from three in the previous election. Richards, who was re-elected as an Independent CCF candidate, later rejoined the caucus as a tenth member. The CCF actually received more votes than any other party, but this meant little in practical terms: the combined coalition vote was well above the CCF total, and some coalition seats were won by acclamation. \nLabour Progressive Party leader Bill Kardash also won a Winnipeg seat, as did independent leftist Lewis Stubbs.\n\n! colspAN=2 rowspan=2 | Political party\n! rowspan=2 | Party leader\n! rowspan=2 | Group\n! colspan=4 | MLAs\n! colspan=3 | Votes\n! Candidates\n!1941\n!1945\n!#\n! ± (pp)\n\n\nNote: The 1945 election was determined by preferential balloting in all constituencies. The constituency of Winnipeg elected ten members; all other constituencies elected one member. The results listed below are taken from reports in the \"Winnipeg Free Press\" newspaper and the Canadian Parliamentary Guide, and may differ from the final official results in some minor particulars. (In some instances, the \"Winnipeg Free Press\" results were not listed in full.)\n\nArthur:\n\nAssiniboia:\n\nBeautiful Plains:\n\nBirtle:\n\nBrandon City:\n\nCarillon:\n\nCypress:\n\n[Note: Parsons had previously defeated Christie for the coalition nomination, by one vote.]\n\nDauphin:\n\nDeloraine:\n\nDufferin:\n\nEmerson:\n\nEthelbert:\n\nFairford:\n\nFisher:\n\nGilbert Plains:\n\nGimli:\n\nGladstone:\n\nGlenwood:\n\nHamiota:\n\nIberville:\n\nKildonan and St. Andrews:\n\n[Note: Frank Simmonds appears to have lost the coalition nomination by one vote.]\n\nKillarney:\n\nLakeside:\n\nLansdowne:\n\nLa Verendrye:\n\nManitou:\n\nMinnedosa:\n\nMorden-Rhineland:\n\nMorris:\n\nMountain:\n\nNorfolk:\n\nPortage la Prairie:\n\nRoblin:\n\nRockwood:\n\nRupertsland:\n\nRussell:\n\nSt. Boniface:\n\nSt. Clements:\n\nSt. George:\n\nSte. Rose:\n\nSpringfield:\n\n[Note: Olive and Mackay's numbers appear to be from the third count.]\n\nSwan River:\n\nThe Pas:\n\nTurtle Mountain:\n\nVirden:\n\nBeresford Richards (Ind CCF) was re-admitted to the CCF caucus in December 1945.\n\nSpecial elections for members of the armed forces were held in January 1946, in light of the fact that many Manitoba citizens had served overseas in World War II and were unable to vote in the general election. Gordon Churchill was elected to represent the Canadian Army, Alex J. Stringer was elected for the Royal Canadian Navy and Ronald Turner was elected for the Royal Canadian Air Force. Stringer later became a Progressive Conservative, while Turner became a Liberal-Progressive. Churchill sat as an Independent.\n\nMinnedosa (res. Earl Rutledge, July 13, 1948), November 2, 1948:\n\nFairford (res. Stuart Garson, November 13, 1948), December 23, 1948:\n\nBeresford Richards and Wilbert Doneleyko were expelled from the CCF in July 1949, and sat as independent members.\n\nIberville (res. John McDowell, 1949)\n\nWinnipeg (res. Gunnar Thorvaldson, 1949)\n\nGordon Churchill, Army Representative, resigns in 1949.\n"}
{"id": "2059013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059013", "title": "Staunton Country Park", "text": "Staunton Country Park\n\nStaunton Country Park is a listed Regency landscaped parkland and forest encompassing approximately in Hampshire, England.\n\nAn ornamental farm, ornamental lake, follies, maze, walled garden and glasshouses can be found within it. Entry to the parkland itself is free, however there is an associated visitors centre, with animals and attractions, which is not free.\n\nIt is situated between Leigh Park and Rowlands Castle, near Havant.\n\nThe first gardens on the site were begun by William Garrett who purchased the land in 1802. In 1817 the park was sold to John Julius Angerstein but in 1819 the sale was reversed after Angerstein brought a case against Garrett over non disclosure of dry rot. Garrett then put the estate back on the market. The park was purchased in 1820 by Regency politician and botanist Sir George Thomas Staunton as part of his country estate 'Leigh Park'. He made significant changes and additions to the gardens with the construction of the lake and a number of follies. On his death in 1859 the estate and gardens were inherited by Staunton's cousin Henry Cormick Lynch. Henry Lynch died just six weeks after receiving his inheritance and it was in turn passed to his eldest son George Staunton Lynch who then changed his name to George Staunton Lynch-Staunton. In 1861 he in turn sold the gardens and the estate to William Henry Stone for £60,000. Stone had a new house built which was finished in 1865 and most of the old house was demolished around the same time.\n\nStone sold the estate and gardens to Frederick Fitzwygram in 1875. When Frederick Fitzwygram died in 1904 the park and estate passed to his son Frederick Loftus Fitzwygram. He died in 1920 with the park this time passing to his sister Angela Fitzwygram. The estate and gardens were purchased by the city of Portsmouth in June 1944 and the gardens were transferred to the parks committee in 1950. They were established as a Country park in 1987.\n\nStone's house was demolished in 1959, however the Gothic Library, part of Garrett's house on the site, still remains.\n\nStaunton Country Park has hosted Havant parkrun since 16 June 2012. In 2017 the park received lottery funding to carry out conservation work on its follies and construct a visitor center within the park's old Coach House.\n\nThe park contains a lake called Leigh water. Prior to its construction its site was home to a pond a few yards in diameter. Its initial construction of the lake took place between 1828 and 1836. A three arched bridge known as the Chinese bridge was built in 1830 and in 1832 two buildings were added; a boathouse apparently built to a Chinese design and a Pergola. In either 1832 or 1834 an ornamental Kiosk was added to the lakeside. It featured an onion dome surrounded by small Minarets. In 1835 a Chinese themed summer house was built by the site of the lake.\n\nThe lake is home to a number of islands the largest of which was home to a cottage while a smaller island named Fort Island was originally home to small battery set up for nine guns. The flag of the Qing Dynasty was flown on Fort Island. The cottage was used to house the under-gardener whose job it was to look after the lake area. A third island was swan island which as its name suggests was used to house swans. Under Henry Stone the lake was expanded and an extra island added. He also had the cottage demolished and replaced by an American garden. Most of the surrounding buildings were removed at this point with some being replaced by new structures. The Chinese bridge remained but alterations were made to its appearance.\n\nThe park originally contained a number of follies, some of which still survive.\n\nThe temple was a memorial commissioned by George Staunton in 1824 with a large memorial urn at its centre. As initially completed the temple contained dedications to Staunton's parents and further dedications to more distant relations and friends. In the following years an eight busts were added in a semi circle around the urn. Most of the busts were of friends of Staunton who had died after 1820 but one was of the then still living William Howley. In 1840 Staunton decided to add no further memorials to the temple. Further busts were added after this time but they were primarily of people still living. The temple was removed when William Henry Stone had his new home constructed on its site.\n\nThe Shell house was built in 1828 and is covered in shells from Hayling Island.\n\nThe Election Column was erected in 1837 and initially featured the date of Staunton's then sole election victory and two defeats. A year later the date of his election as an MP for Portsmouth was added. The column was removed at some point during Stone's ownership of the park with the inscription recording Staunton's election victories being moved to the shell house.\n\nThe beacon is a folly built in 1830 in the style of an ionic temple to a design by Lewis Vulliamy. It was largely built with material from the demolished Purbrook house. It features a hole in a roof designed to allow a flagpole to be placed there. The roof is domed and supported by eight Doric columns.\n\nThe moss house appears to have been built at some point in the first half of the 1830s and featured covered seat. The inside was lined with moss and the floor was made up of Emsworth pebbles of differing colours. It was removed in the 1860s as part of the building work undertaken by William Henry Stone.\n\nThe obelisk was another Lewis Vulliamy design. Construction started in August 1832 with the obelisk featuring a dedication to George Canning. By 1986 it was in a very poor condition.\n\n"}
{"id": "2059023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059023", "title": "O'Donohue v Canada", "text": "O'Donohue v Canada\n\nO'Donohue v Canada was a legal challenge to the exclusion of Roman Catholics from the throne of Canada. The applicant sought a declaratory judgment that certain provisions of the \"Act of Settlement 1701\" violate the equality-rights section of the \"Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms\". In 2003 the Ontario Superior Court of Justice dismissed the case, finding the matter non-justiciable. In 2005 that decision was upheld on appeal.\n\nThe application was brought by Tony O'Donohue, a civil engineer, former Toronto City Councillor and member of Citizens for a Canadian Republic, after over two decades of pursuing reform of the succession by constitutional amendment.\n\nCurrently Canada's head of state is Elizabeth II, Queen of Canada; a legally distinct position from the Queen of the United Kingdom, though embodied in the same person. As a sovereign nation, Canada is free to alter its own laws, but its Constitution includes the 1931 Statute of Westminster, which set out the convention that all of the Commonwealth realms must have symmetrical lines of succession to the throne, to maintain the unity of the Crown. Thus the constitutional law that predominantly governs the line of succession to the throne, the 1701 Act of Settlement, must remain identical to the same law in the other realms, including the United Kingdom. The Act of Settlement, in turn, forbids Catholics from becoming King or Queen of Canada.\n\nO'Donohue argued that this law was discriminatory, and attempted to have it repealed. As a sovereign country, Canada, it was argued, should be free to change any laws regarding who becomes the country's head of state. The Court File (NO.: 01-CV-217147CM) stated:\n\nOn June 26, 2003 the Ontario Superior Court of Justice ruled in favour of the respondents—who were named as Her Majesty the Queen in right of Canada, Her Majesty the Queen in right of Ontario. The judgement was subsequently upheld by the Court of Appeal for Ontario on March 16, 2005. It read as follows:\n\n[36] \"The impugned positions of the Act of Settlement are an integral part of the rules of succession that govern the selection of the monarch of Great Britain. By virtue of our constitutional structure whereby Canada is united under the Crown of Great Britain, the same rules of succession must apply for the selection of the King or Queen of Canada and the King or Queen of Great Britain. As stated by Prime Minister St. Laurent to the House of Commons during the debate on the bill altering the royal title:\n\n[37] \"These rules of succession, and the requirement that they be the same as those of Great Britain, are necessary to the proper functioning of our constitutional monarchy and, therefore, the rules are not subject to Charter scrutiny.\"\n\n[38] \"In the present case the court is being asked to apply the Charter not to rule on the validity of acts or decisions of the Crown, one of the branches of our government, but rather to disrupt the core of how the monarchy functions, namely the rules by which succession is determined. To do this would make the constitutional principle of Union under the British Crown together with other Commonwealth countries unworkable, would defeat a manifest intention expressed in the preamble of our Constitution, and would have the courts overstep their role in our democratic structure.\"\n\n[39] In conclusion, the \"lis\" raised in the present application is not justiciable and there is no serious issue to be tried. Public interest standing should not be granted. Given my ruling on these issues I need not deal with the other considerations that apply to the granting of public interest standing. The application is dismissed.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2059031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059031", "title": "Smoking clover", "text": "Smoking clover\n\nAccording to the Jargon File, smoking clover is a computer display hack, originally created by Bill Gosper. Several converging lines are drawn on a color monitor in such a way that every pixel struck has its color incremented—altered to the next hue up or down. The color map is then repeatedly rotated.\n\nThe result of this is a rainbow-hued, shimmering four-leaf clover. The program has been described as \"psychedelic\", and Gosper joked about keeping it a secret from the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) due to its \"hallucinogenic properties\".\n\nSource code for Linux to reproduce the effect is available on the web.\n"}
{"id": "2059033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059033", "title": "Harp lute", "text": "Harp lute\n\nThe harp lute, or dital harp, is a musical instrument that combines features of harp and lute and to increase its compass of the latter. It was invented in 1795 by Edward Light., (though an earlier form is shown in the \"\"Garden of Earthly Delights\"\" (~1500) by Hieronymus Bosch).\n\nThe harp lute owes the first part of its name to the characteristic mechanism for shortening the effective length of the strings; its second name of \"dital harp\" emphasizes the nature of the stops, which are worked by the thumb in contradistinction to the pedals of the harp worked by the feet.\n\nThis instrument consists of a pear-shaped body, to which is added a curved neck supported on a front pillar or arm springing from the body, and therefore reminiscent of the harp. There are twelve catgut strings. The curved fingerboard, almost parallel with the neck, is provided with frets, and has in addition a thumbkey for each string, by means of which the accordance of the string is mechanically raised a semitone at will. The dital or key, on being depressed, acts upon a stop-ring or eye, which draws the string down against the fret, and thus shortens its effective length. The fingers then stop the strings as usual over the remaining frets. A further improvement was patented in 1816 as the British harp lute. Other attempts possessing less practical merit than the dital harp were the lyra-guitarre, which appeared in Germany, at the beginning of the 19th century; the accord-guitarre, towards the middle of the same century; and the keyed guitar.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2059034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059034", "title": "Mount Vernon Nazarene University", "text": "Mount Vernon Nazarene University\n\nMount Vernon Nazarene University (MVNU) is a Christian liberal arts college in Mount Vernon, Ohio, with satellite locations in the surrounding area. It was founded in 1968 by the Church of the Nazarene and offers a variety of Bachelor's and Master's degrees to both traditional and non-traditional students. MVNU is also home to Cougar Athletics.\n\nThe result of a 1960 education commission, Mount Vernon Nazarene was first chartered as the Zone A College of the Church of the Nazarene in 1964 by the church's General Assembly. A site in the town of Mount Vernon was chosen in 1966 for its proximity to a concentrated Nazarene population, and Mount Vernon Nazarene College (MVNC) opened in 1968 on the old Lakeholm Farm property that had belonged to The Ohio State University.\n\nThe Lakeholm Farm was the former home of Columbus Delano, US Secretary of the Interior under Ulysses S. Grant.\nThree buildings (Manor, Ice House, and Barn) original to Lakeholm Farm, are still in operation on the campus today. Originally a two-year junior college, MVNU became a four-year school in 1973, was accredited for two-year degrees in 1972 and four-year degrees in 1974, and graduate degrees in Christian ministry were added in 1991. It was renamed Mount Vernon Nazarene University (MVNU) in 2002.\n\nThe town of Mount Vernon was just one of many sites proposed for the college, but it raised $209,000 USD to purchase a 209-acre portion of the Lakeholm Farm before the Church of the Nazarene bought it from The Ohio State University, which owned the property. The colonial-style buildings were designed to resemble Williamsburg, Virginia. Nine acres were added by Mary Starr in 1970, and the college acquired a neighboring farm in 1999.\n\nMVNU is a co-educational liberal arts university with an evangelical Christian foundation and mission. It is part of the Church of the Nazarene's East Central District and much of its educational philosophy is based on the Wesleyan-Arminian holiness tradition. The university motto is: \"To Seek to Learn is to Seek to Serve.\"\n\nMVNU is one of eight US liberal arts colleges affiliated with the Church of the Nazarene. MVNU is the college for the Nazarene East Central Region of the United States, which comprises the Northwestern Ohio, North Central Ohio, East Ohio, Southwestern Ohio, Central Ohio, Eastern Kentucky, West Virginia North, and West Virginia South districts (all of Ohio, part of Kentucky, and most of West Virginia).\n\nThe trustees of the college, organized in 1966, are representatives from each of these Ohio, Kentucky, and West Virginia districts. Each college receives financial backing from the Nazarene churches in its region; part of each church budget is paid into a fund for its regional school. Each college or university is also bound by a gentlemen's agreement not to actively recruit outside its respective educational region.\n\nMVNU is accredited by the Higher Learning Commission and all of its academic programs are submitted to the Ohio Board of Regents for approval. The university is a member of the Association of Independent Colleges and Universities of Ohio, the Council for Christian Colleges and Universities, the Council for Higher Education, and the Ohio Foundation of Independent Colleges.\n\nMVNU's main campus is along the southern edge of Knox County, Ohio. The campus consists of over fifteen different classroom and residence buildings. The main classroom buildings are Faculty Hall, Regents Hall, Founders Hall, The Clarence and Jennie K. Moore Center, and Jetter Hall. Freshmen entering the school live in one of three dorms: Pioneer or Galloway for freshman girls, and Oakwood for freshman boys. Upperclassmen have the option of staying in Galloway Hall (girls) or Redwood Hall (boys) or moving to one of the apartment complexes on campus. These apartments are Cedar, Birch, and Cypress (upperclassmen boys) and Maplewood, Elmwood, Rosewood, and Spruce (upperclassmen girls).\n\nOther buildings on campus include the R.R. Hodges Chapel, Hyson Campus Center, Ariel Arena and the Prince Student Union, and Hunter Hall, The Stephen W. Nease Center and the Buchwald Center in downtown Mount Vernon. The R.R. Hodges chapel is where most chapel services take place on campus and is also the center of all music and performing arts classes and performances on campus. Hyson Campus Center houses the Dining Commons, the Student Life offices, the campus post office, and several classrooms. Ariel Arena is MVNU's athletics facility, opened on November 8, 2013. Connected to the arena is the Prince Student Union, which houses the campus cafe, \"The 586.”\n\nMVNU also owns several buildings in downtown Mount Vernon. The first of these is Hunter Hall, which houses the university's nursing program and Happy Bean Coffee Shop. This building now contains high-tech educational technology and simulation equipment for nursing students as well as Hunter Hall Clinic for Communication Sciences and Disorders. Next door to Hunter Hall is Buchwald Center, open since 2009, which contains classrooms for Fine Art and Graphic Design majors and the Schnormeier Art Gallery. A couple buildings down is The Stephen W. Nease Center that houses MVNU's Department of Engineering and the community makerspace, Knox Labs, Inc.\n\nMVNU also has satellite locations in Columbus-New Albany, Mansfield, and Newark that serve the Graduate and Professional Studies Program for non-traditional students. The Columbus-New Albany site was opened on July 1, 2013 and features state-of-the-art technology for students and faculty, along with convenient access from all areas of Columbus. It is MVNU's newest satellite location, replacing the Gahanna and Polaris locations that the university previously operated.\n\nMVNU has programs for traditional students, graduate students, and working adults. 88% of all degrees awarded are bachelor's degrees and the Fall 2018 acceptance rate for students who applied to the college was 75.8. The student-to-faculty ratio is 16:1, and 68% of full-time professors hold a terminal degree. Many of the faculty members completed their training at one of the other Nazarene institutions of higher education. In 2018, the retention rate was 79% and the average ACT score of MVNU students was 23.\n\nMVNU is organized into six schools: Arts and Humanities, Business, Education and Professional Studies, Theology and Philosophy, Nursing and Health Sciences, and Natural and Social Sciences. Within these six schools the university offers a variety of degree programs for traditional undergraduate students. The five most popular majors on campus are Business, Nursing, Education, Biology, and Engineering.\n\nThe Graduate and Professional Studies Program (GPS) is for non-traditional students and offers associate's, bachelor's and master's degrees. Mount Vernon Nazarene University offered its first Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) degree program designed for adults to 22 students at the Mount Vernon campus in 1993. By 1995, MVNU added a second site at Polaris Parkway in Columbus. Today, nearly 1,300 students are enrolled in Graduate and Professional Studies programs (GPS) through several locations around Ohio. Five BBA concentrations are now offered as well as undergraduate degrees in social work, leadership, ministry leadership, public administration, education, and nursing; graduate degrees in business, education, and ministry; general studies courses, and certificate programs in education and ministry. Many online degree programs are also available.\n\nWNZR, operating at a frequency of 90.9 FM MHz, signed on the air in October 1986. The station is owned and operated by Mount Vernon Nazarene University. The station's studios are located in Founders Hall and are part of the University's Communication Department and the School of Arts and Humanities. WNZR's broadcast tower and transmitter building is located off of Glen Road on the east end of the campus. The station serves a dual purpose as a laboratory for radio broadcasting classes and a broadcast ministry of MVNU.\nWNZR is licensed by the Federal Communications Commission as a non-commercial educational (NCE) station, and is located in the NCE range of the FM bandwidth. WNZR was originally licensed to operate around 140 watts. In May 2008, the station was approved for a power increase up to 1300 watts and went live with a new transmitter on May 21, 2010. WNZR's signal now reaches into bordering counties (Licking, Morrow, and Richland). WNZR also streams online at www.wnzr.fm and has a smartphone app available on both the Google Play/Android platform and on the iTunes App Store.\nWNZR is funded through support from the university's general academic budget, donations from listeners, and underwriting support from area businesses and organizations. It operates 24 hours a day, seven days a week, 365 days a year, broadcasting primarily an Adult Contemporary (AC) Christian music format, along with a variety of Christian teaching programs and athletic events. Core music artists at WNZR include Natalie Grant, Chris Tomlin, Casting Crowns, Third Day, MercyMe, Toby Mac, Jeremy Camp, Mandisa, Building 429, Steven Curtis Chapman, Francesca Battistelli, For King & Country, and the Newsboys.\n\nEnrollment in 2018 consisted of 2,243 students, 1,405 of whom were traditional and 838 non-traditional undergraduates. 15% of students represented racial minorities, 92% of students were from the state of Ohio, 23% were associated with the Church of the Nazarene, 63% were female, and 36% were male. 72% of students lived on campus.\n\nWhile on campus, students participate in student-led small groups, chapel services, mission trips, and community service groups organized and directed by upperclassmen. Counseling, Career Services, and Student Health Services are available to students at no cost.\n\nThe Student Government Association (SGA) is responsible for many of the events that take place on campus. It consists of 13 members who are responsible for various aspects of community life, from planning events to influencing policies on important issues. These members are elected yearly by the student body and include a president of each class, social, community and spiritual life, and other areas. Members of the SGA participate in meetings with the board of trustees, faculty, staff, and administration. In past years, the SGA has been responsible for the end of the year Block Party and a change in policy that allowed more open dorm hours for the residence halls and apartment living areas.\n\nSome campus events and traditions that take place annually are Welcome Week, Oaktoberfest, SonFest, and Block Party. Welcome Week includes activities such as a luau and dime-a-dog for sporting events. Oaktoberfest takes place on the lawn in front of Oakwood Hall and features hay rides, s'mores, and pumpkin carving. SonFest is one of the region's largest Christian music concerts, with yearly attendance numbering in the thousands. Taking place on the campus of MVNU, the event has previously featured popular artists that include Family Force Five, Plumb, Building 429, Switchfoot, and Lecrae. The Block Party is held to celebrate the end of the year and is hosted by the SGA. Loud music and outdoor games are signature attractions of this event.\n\nMount Vernon Nazarene teams are known as the Cougars. They are members of the National Association of Intercollegiate Athletics (NAIA), primarily competing in the Crossroads League, formerly known as the Mid-Central College Conference (MCCC). MVNU competes in 20 varsity sports, including men's basketball, women's basketball, baseball, softball, women's volleyball, men's and women's cross country, men's and women's track and field, men's and women's golf, men's and women's tennis, men's and women's bowling, men's lacrosse, cheerleading and esports. MVNU will add men's volleyball as a varsity sport for the 2020-21 season, with the sport spending the 2019-20 season as a club.\n\nMVNU hosts most of their sports at on-campus facilities, the newest of which is Ariel Arena. Opened in 2013, the arena was funded by the Ariel Corporation and is named for it. The main arena seats 2,100 for athletic events and 3,000 for concerts, performances and other events. The arena is attached to MVNU's older gymnasium, formerly known as the Physical Education Center, which provides auxiliary courts for practices. The arena also hosts a cardio center, weight room, athletics offices and classrooms. MVNU also has a baseball field built next to Ariel Arena, and a softball field and tennis courts found west of Martinsburg Road.\n\nIn addition to current facilities, MVNU has begun (2019) construction on a new soccer and lacrosse complex on the north side of campus. The new facility will feature a turf field, lights, grandstand seating for 500 spectators, locker rooms and additional amenities. The project is part of a larger community area that will include five grass soccer fields, and is built next to a new indoor facility being built by Mount Vernon High School. MVNU and MVHS will share access to both the soccer and lacrosse stadium and the indoor facility.\n\nIn 2018-19, MVNU saw great success on the field. The Cougars’ men's basketball program returned to the NAIA Division II National Tournament for the first time since 2009, reaching the second round. MVNU also had a number of NAIA All-Americans, most notably Mitchell Soviak, who won the NAIA Men's Outdoor Track and Field National Championship in shot put.\n\nMVNU also supports a wide variety of intramural sports, such as tennis, softball, sand volleyball, indoor volleyball and flag football.\n\n"}
{"id": "2059043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059043", "title": "Compact Disc and DVD copy protection", "text": "Compact Disc and DVD copy protection\n\nCD/DVD copy protection is a blanket term for various methods of copy protection for CDs and DVDs. Such methods include DRM, CD-checks, Dummy Files, illegal tables of contents, over-sizing or over-burning the CD, physical errors and bad sectors. Many protection schemes rely on breaking compliance with CD and DVD standards, leading to playback problems on some devices.\n\nProtection schemes rely on \"distinctive features\" that:\n\nMost CD-ROMs use the ISO9660 file system to organize the available storage space for use by a computer or player. This has the effect of establishing directories (i.e., folders) and files within those directories. Usually, the filesystem is modified to use extensions intended to overcome limitations in the ISO9660 filesystem design. These include Joliet, RockRidge and El Torito extensions. These are, however, compatible additions to the underlying ISO9660 structure, not complete replacements or modifications. The most basic approach for a \"distinctive feature\" is to purposely fake some information within the filesystem. Early generations of software copied every single file one by one from the original medium and re-created a new filesystem on the target medium.\n\nA \"sector\" is the primary data structure on a CD-ROM accessible to external software (including the OS). On a Mode-1 CD-ROM, each sector contains 2048 bytes of user-data (content) and 304 bytes of structural information. Among other things, the structural information consists of\n\nUsing the EDC and ECC information, the drive can detect and repair many (but not all) types of read-error.\n\nCopy protections can use these fields as a \"distinctive feature\" by purposely crafting sectors with improper EDC/ECC fields during manufacture. The protection software tries to read those sectors, awaiting read-errors. As early generations of end-user soft/hardware were not able to generate sectors with illegal structural information, this feature could not be re-generated with such soft/hardware. If the sectors forming the \"distinctive feature\" have become readable, the medium is presumed to be a copy.\n\nA modification of this approach uses large regions of unreadable sectors with small \"islands\" of readable ones interspersed. Most software trying to copy protected media will skip intervals of sectors when confronted with unreadable ones, expecting them all to be bad. In contrast to the original approach, the protection scheme expects the sectors to be readable, supposing the medium to be a copy when read-errors occur.\n\nBeside the \"main-channel\" which holds all of the user-data, a CD-ROM contains a set of eight \"sub-channels\" where certain meta-information can be stored. (For an audio CD, the user-data is the audio itself; for a data CD, it is the filesystem and file data.) One of the sub-channels — the \"Q-channel\" — states the drive's current position relative to the beginning of the CD and the current track. This was designed for Audio-CDs (which for a few years were the only CDs), where this information is used to keep the drive on track; nevertheless the Q-channel is filled even on Data-CDs. Another sub-channel, the \"P-channel\" (which is the first of the subchannels) carries even more primitive information—a sort of semaphore—indicating the points where each track starts.\n\nAs every Q-channel field contains a 16-bit checksum over its content, copy protection can yet again use this field to distinguish between an original medium and a copy. Early generations of end-user soft/hardware calculated the Q-channel by themselves, not expecting them to carry any valuable information.\n\nModern software and hardware are able to write any information given into the subchannels Q and P.\n\nThis technique exploits the way the sectors on a CD-ROM are addressed and how the drive seeks from one sector to another. On every CD-ROM the sectors state their logical absolute and relative position in the corresponding sector-headers. The drive can use this information when it is told to retrieve or seek to a certain sector. Note that such information is not physically \"hard-wired\" into the CD-ROM itself but part of user-controlled data.\n\nA part of an unprotected CD-ROM may look like this (simplified):\nWhen the drive is told to read from or seek to sector \"6553\", it calculates the physical distance, moves the laser-diode and starts reading from the (spinning) disc, waiting for sector \"6553\" to come by.\n\nA protected CD-ROM may look like this:\nIn this example, a sector was inserted (\"\"Mary\"\") with a sector-address identical to the one right before the insertion-point (\"6553\"). When the drive is told to read from or seek to sector \"6553\" on such a disc, the resulting sector-content depends on the position the drive starts seeking from.\n\nA protected program can check whether the CD-ROM is original by positioning the drive behind sector \"6553\" and then reading from it — expecting the \"Mary\" version to appear. When a program tries to copy such a CD-ROM, it will miss the twin-sector as the drive skips the second \"6553\"-sector, seeking for sector \"6554\".\n\nThere are more details about this technique (e.g. the twin-sectors need to be recorded in large extents, the SubQ-channel has to be modified etc.) that were omitted. If the twin sectors are right next to each other as shown, the reader would always read the first one, \"Jill\"; the twin sectors need to be farther apart on the disc.\n\nStamped CDs are perfect clones and have the data always at the same position, whereas writable media differ from each other. Data Position Measurement (DPM) detects these little physical differences to efficiently protect against duplicates. DPM was first used publicly in 1996 by Link Data Security's CD-Cops. SecuROM 4 and later uses this protection method, as do Nintendo optical discs.\nThe Red Book CD-DA audio specification does not include any copy protection mechanism other than a simple anti-copy flag. Starting in early 2002, attempts were made by record companies to market \"copy-protected\" non-standard compact discs. Philips stated that such discs were not permitted to bear the trademarked \"Compact Disc Digital Audio\" logo because they violate the Red Book specification. There was great public outcry over copy-protected discs because many saw it as a threat to fair use. For example, audio tracks on such media cannot be easily added to a personal music collection on a computer's hard disk or a portable (non-CD) music player. Also, many ordinary CD audio players (e.g. in car radios) had problems playing copy-protected media, mostly because they used hardware and firmware components also used in CD-ROM drives. The reason for this reuse is cost efficiency; the components meet the Red Book standard, so no valid reason existed not to use them. Other car stereos that supported CD-ROM discs containing compressed audio files (such as MP3, FLAC, or Windows Media) had to use some CD-ROM drive hardware (meeting the Yellow Book CD-ROM standard) in order to be capable of reading those discs.\n\nIn late 2005, Sony BMG Music sparked the Sony CD copy protection scandal when it included a form of copy protection called Extended Copy Protection (\"XCP\") on discs from 52 artists. Upon inserting such a disc in the CD drive of a computer running Microsoft Windows, the XCP software would be installed. If CD ripper software (or other software, such as a real-time effects program, that reads digital audio from the disc in the same way as a CD ripper) were to subsequently access the music tracks on the CD, XCP would substitute white noise for the audio on the disc.\n\nTechnically inclined users and computer security professionals found that XCP contains a rootkit component. After installation, XCP went to great lengths to disguise its existence, and it even attempted to disable the computer's CD drive if XCP was forcibly removed. XCP's efforts to cloak itself unfortunately allowed writers of malware to amplify the damage done by their software, hiding the malware under XCP's cloak if XCP had been installed on the victim's machine. Several publishers of antivirus and anti-spyware software updated their products to detect and remove XCP if found, on the grounds that it is a trojan horse or other malware; and an assistant secretary for the United States' Department of Homeland Security chastised companies that would cause security holes on customers' computers, reminding the companies that they do not own the computers.\n\nFacing resentment and class action lawsuits Sony BMG issued a product recall for all discs including XCP, and announced it was suspending use of XCP on future discs. On November 21, 2005 the Texas Attorney General Greg Abbott sued Sony BMG for XCP and on December 21, 2005 sued Sony BMG for MediaMax copy protection.\n\nThe provisions of law allow for redress to buyers of Audio CDs with Copyright-Protection. The Copyright, Designs and Patents Act 1988 contains provisions in section 296ZE part VII that allow for \"[a] remedy where effective technological measures prevent permitted acts\". \n\nIn practice, the consumer would make a complaint to the copyright holder of the Audio CD, usually a Record Label. The complaint would contain a request to the holder of the copyright to provide a \"work-around\" in order to make use of the copy-protected CD, to the extent that a non-copyright protected CD could be used lawfully. Where the consumer believes the copyright holder has not been reasonable in entertaining the request, they are within their rights under the Act to make an application to the Secretary of State to review the merits of the complaint and (if the complaint is upheld) to instruct the copyright holder to implement a work-around circumventing the copyright protection.\n\nSchedule 5A of the Copyright, Designs and Patent Act 1988 lists the permitted acts, to which the provisions of section 296ZE apply (i.e. lists the cases in which the consumer can use the remedy, if the copy protection prevents the user doing a permitted act).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2059048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059048", "title": "Formula D", "text": "Formula D\n\nFormula D or Formula DRIFT Black Magic Pro Championship Presented by BlackVue Dash Cameras is the premier United States drifting series. Formula Drift, Inc. was co-founded by Jim Liaw and Ryan Sage in 2003 as a sister company to the now defunct Slipstream Global Marketing, the same partnership that introduced D1 Grand Prix to the United States. The new entity would solely own, operate and launch the first official drifting series in North America. 2018 was Formula Drift's fifteenth year of competition.\n\nWith 60 currently licensed drivers competing in Pro and Pro 2, Formula Drift is recognized as the premier North American professional drifting championship series. The series consists of an eight-round championship played out at race tracks across North America. Judged on line, angle, and style, rather than who finishes the course in the fastest time, Formula Drift brings together traditional racing and extreme sports.\n\nFormula Drift works closely with a huge variety of sponsors such as: Black Magic Car Care, BlackVue Dash Cameras, NOS Energy Drink, and the United States Air Force. Most notably Formula Drift works with the largest amount of tire suppliers to a single series. Achilles Radial, Falken Tire, Hankook Tire, Nexen Tire, and Nitto Tire all work together to supply teams and develop test their products.\n\nFormula Drift is home to 60+ professional drift drivers. The competition for Formula Drift licenses is intense. Drivers in the U.S. can compete in a number of regionally sanctioned Pro-Am series for licensing.\n\nWinners and high finishers of these feeders series are then able to enter the Formula DRIFT Pro 2 series, a secondary national tour where they compete to move up to the main series.\n\nDrivers from around the world have set their sights on Formula Drift as the series of choice worldwide in which to compete. This also includes the legions of talented drivers from Japan, who have competed previously in the D1 Grand Prix. Other drivers who crossed over to Formula Drift from foreign series are the Irish drivers Darren McNamara, James Deane, Eric O'Sullivan, and Dean Kearney. These drivers rose to acclaim in their European home series before making the move stateside.\n\n\n\nFormula Drift has increased its international presence every year since 2008 with the addition of demonstration and sister series in other countries. \"Taking the Formula Drift brand internationally is a huge milestone. Our priority is to continue to build the Series here while growing the sport of drifting as a whole,\" said Jim Liaw, president and co-founder of Formula Drift. \"We are very careful in choosing our event partners and take careful consideration of the boundaries of our international affiliates such as Drift Australia, MSC, and Pro Drift.\"\n\nFormula Drift Asia. Formula Drift Asia was created in 2008 with the inaugural FD Singapore competition. The first real international competition of its in Asia, held at the Changi Air Show Grounds. This historic event was sold out before the gates opened. Since then, Formula Drift Asia became its own championship series, the first Pan-Asian professional drifting championship. In 2009 and 2010, the Championship made stops in Singapore, Thailand and Malaysia.\nFor the 2011/2012 Championship tour, Formula Drift Asia added an additional stop in Indonesia.\n\nFD Asia web site.\nThe first Formula Drift Asia Champion was Tengku Djan.\n\n\nFormula Drift has continued to refine its rulebook and technical regulations year to year in terms of car and competition regulations.\n\nCars and their builds are constantly under review by the Formula Drift staff. The rule book is revised every year to promote fair and exciting drifting. Some cars and practices are written out of the rule book in order to keep a realistic and level playing field. During the 2004 season, the Dodge Viper Competition Coupe was permitted to compete; subsequently it was ineligible in Formula Drift.\n\nAlthough Formula Drift does not permit front-wheel drive cars, it does allow all-wheel drive cars to be converted to rear wheel drive, such as the Subaru WRX and Mitsubishi EVO. In the United States, the Scion tC is sold only in the FWD layout, but because it shares the same chassis as the AWD Toyota Avensis (sold only in the United Kingdom and Europe), it can be converted to a competition-ready RWD layout. This change sparked great debate between drifters in the series who felt that an original FWD vehicle should not be eligible due to the front cross member changes needed.\n\nA trademark of Formula D competition cars is the very open engine rulebook. Formula Drift allows engines from other manufacturers to be swapped into competition cars. \"Engine, transmission, ECU and/or final drive modifications are free, but only the rear wheels may propel the vehicle\". This results in a huge variety of engine/chassis combinations as well as huge power outputs commonly in excess of 850+ whp. Vehicles wishing to compete for the Manufacturers Championship must use an engine from the same manufacturer as the chassis. Engine swaps remain very common with older models but can be seen with new builds as well. Naturally aspirated Chevrolet V8 engines are often used because of their availability and lower operating costs.\n\nSuspension modification is widely open to development as long as stock pickup locations are utilized. Suspension tuning is a vital part of any successful Formula D team.\n\nTo keep cars in check Formula D institutes a maximum tire size based on the vehicles total weight.\n\nFormula Drift cars are given fixed numbers for their cars and are not necessarily based on rankings.\n\nFormula D uses its own scoring system that may differ from other drifting organizations. Often scoring systems for qualifying, tandem battles, and penalties are different.\n\nQualifying – Formula D competitors are allowed two non-consecutive judged solo runs to post their highest possible score in order to compete. The top 32 drivers with the highest qualifying scores are entered in a competition bracket pairing the highest scoring drivers against the lowest scoring drivers. 1st v. 32nd, 2nd v. 31st, 3rd v. 30th, etc. The drivers are judged on line, speed, angle, and overall impact. The judges can also make additional request at the drivers meeting for actions or techniques that will weigh in their decision making (ex; entry technique, racing line, proximity, etc.). Formula D drivers are scored on a points-deduction system where every driver will start their judged run with a perfect score of 100 pts. For every mistake, points will be deducted. These points will vary between .25 point to the most severe mistakes (-1.75).\n\nCompetition – The top 32 qualifying drivers are paired up in an elimination bracket pairing the highest scoring drivers against the lowest scoring drivers. The biggest difference from qualifying is that now drivers face off head to head on the track in a tandem battle. The two cars run together side by side, each driver trying to show greater skill than the other. The highest qualifying driver leads on the first run, then on the second run the lower qualifying driver leads. Drivers are judged on the same basic criteria as qualifying but an emphasis is put on the interaction between the two drivers competing head to head. The lead driver will set the pace and driving line often trying to produce a gap between themselves and the following driver. The following driver will try to stay on top of the lead driver as close as possible without making contact with their vehicle. The goal is to mimic or \"shadow\" the lead drivers run while staying on their door throughout the run. It is possible for either driver to win either run. Often one driver will have a points advantage going into the second run. Driver mistakes (ex. 2 wheels off course, spinning out, avoidable contact, etc.) can also cause them to be given an automatic zero. The three-judge panel then will look at both runs and determine one of three outcomes; Driver 1 advances, Driver 2 advances, or if a winner can not be determined a \"One More Time\" will be called. In the event of a \"One More Time\" the drivers will then complete a new pair of runs. The drivers will face off again until a winner can be determined. The winner advance to the next bracket.\n\nCompetition Time Out – Drivers have a one-time option to utilize a \"Competition Time Out\" in order to attempt to fix their vehicle. In the event that a driver or car can not come to the start line in time for their tandem run the other driver will be allowed to run a solo lap to advance.\n\nOvertaking – Formula D rules are structured so as not to encourage drivers to overtake their opponents; doing so incurs a penalty. Overtaking is only permitted when the lead car makes a mistake such as coming to a complete stop or going completely off course.\n\nThe current judges are Andy Yen, Ryan Lanteigne, and Brian Eggert. Doug Artus is the Race Manager for the series.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nOne win each for:\n\nTo this date, only five drivers have won both Formula Drift and D1 Grand Prix events, they are Mitsuru Haraguchi, Toshiki Yoshioka, Vaughn Gittin, Jr., Daigo Saito, and Chris Forsberg.\n\nFormer \"Fox Soccer USA\" host Brandon Johnson hosted the \"Formula D\" show for G4 in 2006. Rossi Morreale was the show's host in 2005. Johnson was joined by \"Attack of the Show\" co-host Olivia Munn who covered the pits and drivers during the events and drifting expert Adam Matthews who provided commentary and insight on the tandem battles. G4 aired each round on a tape-delayed basis. Jarod DeAnda is the public address announcer at each event, earning him the moniker, \"The Voice of Formula D.\" In 2005, G4 used DeAnda's event commentary track, but for 2006, used Johnson and Matthews calling each battle like a typical play-by-play/color commentator combination. Johnson and Matthews were on-site for each event, but it sounded as if they had taped their commentary after the event had already taken place. This practice is not uncommon in the motorsports business in post-production.\n\nIn the 2005 season, there were two people working the pits — driver interviewer Mayleen Ramey, who was a roving reporter for the half-hour episodes, and a second anchor, who patrolled around the car show at each event. In 2005, G4 used three reporters for this job. From the round in Wall to the round in Houston, actor Emeka Nnadi held the job. At the Infineon round, \"Attack of the Show!\" co-host Kevin Pereira took the duties, while \"Street Fury\" host Big C finished things out in Chicago and Irwindale. Also, G4 showed half-hour episodes in-between rounds, most of which focused on the network having its own drift car built from scratch, with other segments focusing on the aspects of drifting. One of the first half-hour episodes in 2005 had one Formula D competitor, Chris Forsberg go to Japan, and meet up with another competitor, Daijiro Yoshihara, to explore the country and get more perspective on the birth of drifting. Episodes that featured event coverage lasted an hour-and-a-half, and featured the top 16 tandem rounds, including those that needed to be run again, because the judges deemed them too close to call. These episodes aired the night after the next round in the series had already taken place.\n\nIn 2006, however, coverage was dramatically different. The half-hour episodes were gone, and event coverage was reduced to an hour, and their scheduling was quite random. The Long Beach and Atlanta rounds premiered on June 18, with the Chicago round airing on July 2, and the Sonoma round airing a week after it took place. During the Sonoma round, G4 noted that the Seattle round would premiere on September 10, but that date was changed to October 8, with the last two rounds (Wall and Irwindale) airing every other week afterward. These episodes featured more interviews and driver profiles, many of which would've been placed in a half-hour show last year, and many of the tandem battles have been cut out, and any battle that needed to be run again did not have its second run shown. This led to some criticism from those in the drifting community, including fans and some Formula D drivers.\n\nAt the 2006 SEMA Show in Las Vegas, Formula D co-founders Jim Liaw and Ryan Sage announced that the series would have a new television partner in 2007. That partner was ESPN2. Each round began airing in a one-hour block on November 15 with the Long Beach round. All subsequent airings were supposed to be every Thursday afterward, but beginning with the Evergreen Speedway round on December 5, the air dates for new rounds switched to Wednesday.\n\nThe ESPN deal lasted just one season. SPEED Channel will air all rounds of the 2008 Formula D season, as well as the World Championship, scheduled for after the Irwindale round. Airings will take place on Sundays, beginning with the Long Beach round on October 26. All airings will begin at 4 PM Eastern.\n\nFor 2010 Formula Drift announces a comprehensive race programming schedule with VERSUS in which Drifting, the fastest-growing motorsport, will slide into more than 75 million U.S. homes. The seven-stop Formula DRIFT Championship Series programs will air over fourteen Sundays during the 2 PM (EST) / 11 AM (PST) time slot beginning Sunday, August 30. Each episode will showcase all the on- and off-track action as the world’s top drift drivers battle for the coveted title of Formula DRIFT Champion. The first episode, airing on August 30, will feature a comprehensive overview of the sport and drivers. Each episode will re-air the week following the initial airing. Coverage is slated to remain the same for the 2011 season.\n\nIn 2012 NBC's merger with Comcast, Comcast's sports channels were combined under the NBC Sports division, in an arrangement known as the NBC Sports Group, which also comprises Golf Channel, the Comcast SportsNet regional sports networks, and Versus, which was re-launched as the NBC Sports Network on January 2, 2012.\n\nIn 2010 Formula D joined forces with Justin.tv to bring a live stream of all 7 events. All rounds were broadcast via Justin.tv complete with practices and all rounds of competition were included. During the 2010 season over 1,000,000 viewers tuned in to watch the live action unfold over the 7 Pro Championship events.\n\n2013 Formula D partnered with Livestream for the domestic series.\n\n2014 Formula D partnered with Daily Motion for its live stream.\n\nFormula D now broadcasts online at Formula Drift Live and on Motor Trend On Demand.\n\nAt the 2010 SEMA show, FD co-founder Jim Liaw announced the Formula Drift would begin the quarterly publication of a Formula Drift's magazine in 2011. The publication will be handled by Haymarket Media Group.\n\n"}
{"id": "2059061", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059061", "title": "Kite-Eating Tree", "text": "Kite-Eating Tree\n\nThe Kite-Eating Tree is a fictional tree in the \"Peanuts\" comic strip created by Charles M. Schulz. In the comics, when Charlie Brown attempts to fly a kite, the kite always ends up tangled in the tree. In an editorial from 1964, the \"U.S. Catholic\" stated that Charlie Brown's encounters with the Kite-Eating Tree represent \"defeat, but not capitulation\" because Charlie Brown \"refuses to concede that the impossible won’t someday happen—that he will manage to get the kite in the sky, where it belongs.\"\n\nSchulz considered the tree one of the series' 12 major set pieces. He created the tree in response to his experiences with kites getting caught in trees, both as a child and when flying kites with his children. He stated that the kite \"usually disappears over a period of several weeks. Now obviously the kite had to go someplace, so it seemed to me that the tree must be eating it.\" \n\nOne of the series featuring the Kite-Eating Tree in which Charlie Brown holds onto the string of his kite in the tree for eight days, before having to let go when it begins raining, was cited as demonstrating that the \"humor of \"Peanuts\" lies in the extremity of bad luck the characters\" face. In another series, Charlie Brown bit the tree, after which he had to flee from the Environmental Protection Agency.\n\nThe Kite-Eating Tree has played a part in adaptations of the comic strip including the musical \"You're a Good Man, Charlie Brown\" (1967), \"The Peanuts Movie\" (2015) and as a ride at the Peanuts-themed Knott's Berry Farm. At the Charles M. Schulz Museum and Research Center, a tree in the courtyard is designated as a representation of the Kite-Eating Tree.\n\n"}
{"id": "2059068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059068", "title": "The Sky Walker", "text": "The Sky Walker\n\nThe Sky Walker is the third pulp magazine story to feature The Avenger. Written by Paul Ernst, it was published in the November 1, 1939 issue of \"The Avenger” magazine.\n\nThis novel was re-published under its original title by Paperback Library on August 1, 1972.\n\nThe Sky Walker seems to be a man walking in the air over Chicago, pushing a barrel-sized object. His appearance is associated with shattering glass, vanishing railroad tracks that cause a train to derail, the collapse of an office building and a pavilion. People panic, fearing foreign invasion. Inventors Max and Robert Gant are murdered by criminals, and Josh and Rosabel Newton, the Gants' servants, are enlisted by Benson to help in the investigation. The Gants invented a means of making a glassite airplane truly invisible (except for the engine) and a vibration mechanism that can reduce a target substances to hydrogen. The criminals use the plane and vibrator to cause the public to lose trust in any steel not made from ore taken from the Catawbi Range, controlled by the gang. The gang, well-organized and ruthless, almost succeeds. Benson disguises himself as a gang member, interferes with the plane's invisibility treatment, and frees himself and his aides from a death trap. The gang escapes in the now-visible plane, and is shot from the sky by the army.\n\n"}
{"id": "2059077", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059077", "title": "Mattishall", "text": "Mattishall\n\nMattishall is a village and civil parish in the English county of Norfolk. It is situated in the heart of Norfolk 13 miles from the centre of Norwich and four miles from Dereham, at the geographical centre of Norfolk.\n\nIt covers an area of and had a population of 2,631 in 1,110 households at the 2001 census. For the purposes of local government, it falls within the Elmham and Mattishall division of Norfolk County Council and the Mattishall ward of Breckland District Council.\n\nIt is in the Mid Norfolk Parliamentary Constituency.\n\nIt is situated on a plateau of boulder clay left by the glaciers about 300,000 years ago. The soil in the area varies from sands around the neighbouring Mattishall Burgh to stickier clays around Mattishall.\n\nEvidence of human activity in these villages reaches back to the period between 8000 and 1000 BC. The discovery in 1968 of a hoard of 110 silver coins provides a link with the Roman period. However no proof of Roman occupation has been found so far. The four panels of the Mattishall village sign, erected in 1984, depict different periods of history from Roman, the Domesday Survey of 1086, medieval to the mid-twentieth century.\n\nThe All Saints Church in Mattishall dates from the late fourteenth century, possibly replacing an earlier church on the site. The patron is Gonville and Caius College, Cambridge and it is thought that Dr. Caius was instrumental in initiating the building of the larger church. Saint Peter's Church, in Mattishall Burgh, is much smaller and is mainly late thirteenth century.\n\nMattishall has been divided in a religious sense for many years, first with the Reformation, then with the growth of Quakerism. The Quakers established a Meeting House in 1687. Almost 100 years later the Old Moor Congregational Chapel was built. Both had their own burial ground. When it became uneconomical to continue at Old Moor, the Congregationalists transferred to their Lecture Room in Welgate built in 1829. It is now the United Reformed Church. Primitive Methodism gained a following in the nineteenth century but it was not until 1900 that a site was found for a permanent meeting place along the main road. The second half of the twentieth century saw the establishment of the Evangelical Church.\n\nDuring the reign of Edward VI, cleric Matthew Parker married Margaret Harlestone of Mattishall. He became the first Archbishop of Canterbury to be appointed under Elizabeth I. Local tradition has it that the house behind the butcher's shop in Church Plain was the Harlestone family home.\n\nSome of the very old buildings in Mattishall are hidden behind brick and mortar skins and Georgian facades, but others remain to be admired. Of the three nineteenth century mills, the bases of two remain. One has been converted recently into a holiday cottage.\n\nThe National School (subsequently Mattishall First School and Mattishall Middle School, and since 2005 merged to become simply Mattishall Primary School) was built in 1872. A notable headmistress was Miss Johnson (1884–1919), the daughter of the station master at Hardingham. Miss Mildred Edwards, a pupil-teacher, was still around when the school celebrated its centenary. It was she who planted the conker, which grew into the very large chestnut tree in the garden of Church Cottage near the corner of the school playing field.\n\nThe fortunes and well being of the villagers have fluctuated over the centuries. In 1835 the family of Sir William Edward Parry, the polar explorer, occupied South Green House (now Mattishall Hall) for a few months. On half pay from the navy, he was sent to Norfolk as an Assistant Commissioner for the New Poor Law. His sister-in-law wrote to her mother, \"...a large population, immense families, and not work for half, and no resident gentleman near to do anything for them... such a disagreeable neighbourhood...\".\n\nIn the sixteenth century the wool merchants of Mattishall were well-known, or even notorious, in East Anglia. A number of them were warned or fined by the court for failing to sell their wool through Norwich Market. They had found more lucrative outlets in Suffolk and other places.\n\nApart from husbandry, wool-combing and weaving, many other trades were followed in the area. There was a decline in the wool trade in the eighteenth century, which led to unemployment for combers and weavers. These occupations had almost disappeared by the beginning of the nineteenth century. Some found work on the land but others became chargeable on the Parish and either suffered the indignity of living in accommodation set aside for paupers or worse still were sent to the workhouse at Gressenhall.\n\nMost farmers brewed beer but brewing on a larger scale centred on the Malthouse which was demolished in the 1920s. Apart from the Swan Inn, The George and Cross Keys there were several ale houses dotted around the villages and in the nineteenth century included The White House, The Ringers, Ivy Cottage, The Duke of Edinburgh and The Crown and Anchor. Today only The Swan survives as a public house, in a twentieth-century building, which replaced the old thatched building of centuries past.\n\nDespite the modern settlement's growing size numerous local shops and businesses have not survived the advent of the family car and of supermarkets and hypermarkets. The haulage business of A. J. Farrow provided local employment for many people for more than 50 years. Other family business, all names which have now gone, include Dobbs, King, Horne, Fisher, Howard, Turner and Reynolds. Norton's Bakery was run by a member of the family but has ceased trading like Hewitt's Butchers which is just a trade name now. In farming, the name Hill spans several generations. DC Gaskins Automotive Engineers remains one of the larger business operations in the village. Poultec Training and South Green Park is thought to be the largest employer in the village.\n\nThe population of the two villages reached a peak of 1,385 in 1841 and then began to decline as, due to mechanisation on farms, people left the area to look for work. By 1931 the figure had dropped to 829 and by 1961 was only 929. Since then substantial development and infilling has taken place resulting in rapid increases in the population.\n\nThere have been many developments since the 1960s: a memorial hall, a sports and social club, new school buildings on a large site and a surgery, pharmacy, hairdressers and local shops.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2059080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059080", "title": "LMS diesel shunter 1831", "text": "LMS diesel shunter 1831\n\nNo. 1831 was the first experimental diesel hydraulic shunter of the London, Midland and Scottish Railway (LMS) which pioneered diesel shunting in the UK. It was introduced in 1932, built at Midland Railway's Derby Works. It was nominally a rebuild of a Midland Railway 1377 Class 0-6-0T steam locomotive of the same number, built in September 1892 by the Vulcan Foundry. The frames and running gear of the original locomotive were retained.\n\nThe experiment was not a success and the locomotive was put into storage in 1936. 1831 was withdrawn from service in September 1939 and converted to a mobile power unit, emerging in its new guise as MPU3 in November 1940. It was scrapped in August 1951.\n"}
{"id": "2059097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059097", "title": "Royal Library of the Netherlands", "text": "Royal Library of the Netherlands\n\nThe Royal Library of the Netherlands (Dutch: Koninklijke Bibliotheek or KB; \"Royal Library\") is the national library of the Netherlands, based in The Hague, founded in 1798. The KB collects everything that is published in and concerning the Netherlands, from medieval literature to today's publications. About 7 million publications are stored in the stockrooms, including books, newspapers, magazines and maps. The KB also offers many digital services, such as the national online Library (with e-books and audiobooks) and Delpher (millions of digitized pages). Since 2015, the KB has played a coordinating role for the network of the public library.\n\nThe initiative to found a national library was proposed by representative Albert Jan Verbeek on August 17, 1798. The collection would be based on the confiscated book collection of William V. The library was officially founded as the \"Nationale Bibliotheek\" on November 8 of the same year, after a committee of representatives had advised the creation of a national library on the same day. The National Library was initially only open to members of the Representative Body.\n\nKing Louis Bonaparte gave the national library its name of the Royal Library in 1806. Napoleon Bonaparte transferred the Royal Library to The Hague as property, while also allowing the Imperial Library in Paris to expropriate publications from the Royal Library. In 1815 King William I of the Netherlands confirmed the name of 'Royal Library' (Dutch: Koninklijke Bibliotheek) by royal resolution. It has been known as the National Library of the Netherlands since 1982, when it opened new quarters. The institution became 'Independent Administrative Body' of the state in 1996, although it is financed by the Department of Education, Culture and Science. On 18 November 2014 the Wsob (Public Library Facilities System Act or 'Library Act') came into being. The act became valid on 1 January 2015 and from this moment onwards four organizations from the library world continued under the name Koninklijke Bibliotheek. These organizations are Sector Institute Public Libraries (SIOB), the Foundation Bibliotheek.nl (BNL), the Digital Library for Dutch Literature (DBNL) and the Koninklijke Bibliotheek (KB).\n\nThe humanities are central to the collection of the KB, with an emphasis on Dutch history, language and culture.\n\nIn 2016, the KB contained 7,000,000 items, equivalent to 115 kilometers of bookshelves. Most items in the collection are books. There are also pieces of \"grey literature\", where the author, publisher, or date may not be apparent but the document has cultural or intellectual significance. The collection contains almost the entire literature of the Netherlands, from medieval manuscripts to modern scientific publications. For a publication to be accepted, it must be from a registered Dutch publisher. \n\nThe collection is accessible for members. Any person aged 16 years or older can become a member. One day passes are also available. Requests for material take approximately 30 minutes. The KB hosts several open access websites, including the \"Memory of the Netherlands\" (\"Geheugen van Nederland\").\n\nThe KB's Research Department is engaged in internationally renowned research in the field of digital technology, sustainable preservation and accessibility of both paper and digital heritage. Important topics are the applicability of artificial intelligence, the use of big data, the increasing importance of privacy & security, the changes in the publishing and publishing world and the role of public libraries in today's society.\n\n"}
{"id": "2059111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059111", "title": "António Pinto Soares", "text": "António Pinto Soares\n\nAntónio Pinto Soares (1780 – April 6, 1865) was Head of State of Costa Rica from September 11 to September 27, 1842.\n\nHe led the popular uprising that overthrew Francisco Morazán on September 11, 1842, and served as Head of State until September 27, when he peacefully handled power to José María Alfaro.\n\nBorn in Porto, Portugal sometime in 1780 to wealthy parents by the names of Alexandre Pinto and María Custodia Soares. He was a marine merchant and settled in Costa Rica circa 1810. He married María del Rosario Castro Ramírez (1792–1882) on April 26, 1813 in San José. She was daughter of Francisco Castro y Alvarado and María de la Trinidad Ramírez y Ulloa. From this marriage he had fifteen children: José Dolores, Fernando, Mercedes, José Antonio, Baltazar, Petronila, José Antonio Raimundo, Francisca, Liborio, José Concepción, Jesús, Francisco, José, Manuel, and Remigio (all by the surnames of Pinto Castro).\n\nHe dedicated himself to sea trade, coffee agriculture, and commerce although he also served in the military and earned the rank of General. He commanded the Republican artillery units during the 1823 Battle of Ochomogo, served as Costa Rica's Commandant of Artillery, Prosecutor for the 1823 Special Tribunals, Second in Command of the Provincial Battalion for the Disciplined Militias, General Internal Commandant and lastly General Arms Commandant. He also aided the government during the 1835 Civil War before retiring from military service. After this he served as mayor of San José for several terms.\n\nIn September 1842, when discontent with Francisco Morazán had peaked and the country was on the brink of a war with Nicaragua, Pinto led a popular uprising to overthrow him. He became Head of State on September 11, 1842, but he did not desire this power and peacefully conceded to José María Alfaro Zamora who was elected as Temporary Head of State by a collection of nobles from the different cities in the country.\n\nDuring his brief administration, Soares restored relations with the rest of Central America which had been broken with Morazán's rise to power and had even led to an alliance by them against his administration. The government of El Salvador granted him the rank of Division General.\n\nFrom September 1842 to April 1844 he once again served as General Arms Commandant.\n\nHe had great difficulties with the Juan Rafael Mora Porras administration, which in 1851 accused him of plotting against the government. This led to a criminal case being opened against him and his son Liborio but this was interrupted shortly after.\n\nHe died in San José on April 6, 1865.\n"}
{"id": "2059117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059117", "title": "Vic Fazio Yolo Wildlife Area", "text": "Vic Fazio Yolo Wildlife Area\n\nThe Vic Fazio Yolo Wildlife Area is a wetland restoration project constructed by the United States Army Corps of Engineers and Ducks Unlimited within the Yolo Bypass Wildlife Area located in the Yolo Bypass in Yolo County, California, between the cities of Sacramento and Davis. The Yolo Causeway, part of Interstate 80, runs through it. The restoration was named for Congressman Vic Fazio, who lobbied for the project and was instrumental in appropriating funds for the initial construction. The Yolo Bypass Wildlife Area was dedicated in 1997 by President Bill Clinton. The facility is managed by the California Department of Fish and Wildlife while the educational programs and public tours are administered by the Yolo Basin Foundation, which works to educate and inform the public.\nIn 2001, the Wildlife Area expanded to over through the acquisition of the Glide and Los Rios properties. Since this time, extensive wetland enhancement and restoration projects have proceeded rapidly. The Department of Fish and Wildlife has incorporated agriculture into the management of the property to generate operating income and to provide wildlife habitat. \n\nThe floodplain that makes up the Yolo Bypass receives water from the Sacramento River and provides an Important Bird Area of the Pacific Flyway for an impressive variety of waterfowl. Unless the area is impassable due to normal seasonal flooding, a dirt and gravel road is open to the public for driving and walking tours, and a docent-led tour is given once per month.\n\n"}
{"id": "2059135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059135", "title": "Paul Kuypers", "text": "Paul Kuypers\n\nPaul Herman Felix Kuypers (4 June 1939, Elst (Overbetuwe), Gelderland - d. near Ierapetra, Crete, Greece, 9 September 1971) was a Dutch agriculture expert, widely known in Ierapetra as the \"Dutchman\". He is credited with introducing new planting techniques first on Syros island and later in Ierapetra, Crete. He arrived in Ierapetra in 1966 and co-operated with local farmers where he introduced greenhouse techniques revolutionizing agricultural production procedures.\n\nHe settled in the town of Ierapetra along with his wife and their child. He died in a car accident on the highway near Ierapetra in 1971. Some years after his death the people of Ierapetra erected a bust of him in his memory on the road to Myrtos. The Municipality of Ierapetra dedicated a street to his name.\n"}
{"id": "2059142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059142", "title": "Ernest Draffin", "text": "Ernest Draffin\n\nErnest Richard \"Ernie\" Draffin (September 21, 1909 – December 19, 1982) was a politician in Manitoba, Canada. He served in the Legislative Assembly of Manitoba from 1945 to 1949 as a member of the social-democratic Cooperative Commonwealth Federation.\n\nBorn in Winnipeg, Manitoba, the son of Ernest Richard Draffin and Margaret McGowan, Draffin was educated at Brooklands, Manitoba and at the Kiwanis Night School for Boys. He began working at Canadian National Telegraphs in 1925. Originally as a messenger, he later rose to the position of Chief Timekeeper, retiring in 1973. He was a member of the Commercial Telegraphers Union of America, and served on the provincial executive of the CCF. Draffin was also active in ice hockey and soccer. Draffin also served as president of the Manitoba Football Association, later the Manitoba Soccer Association, helped found the Manitoba Sports Federation and was technical director for soccer at the 1967 Pan American Games.\n\nHe was elected to the Manitoba legislature in the 1945 provincial election, defeating Progressive Conservative candidate David Best by 180 votes in the suburban Winnipeg constituency of Assiniboia. He served as an opposition member in the legislature for the next four years.\n\nThe CCF suffered an electoral setback in the 1949 provincial election, and Draffin lost his seat to Liberal-Progressive candidate Reginald Wightman by 1,214 votes.\n\nHe campaigned in the St. Andrews constituency in the 1953 provincial election, but finished a poor third against Liberal-Progressive Thomas Hillhouse. In the 1958 election, he finished third in Fort Rouge against Progressive Conservative Gurney Evans.\n\nDraffin ran for the House of Commons of Canada in the 1953 Canadian election, as a candidate of the federal Cooperative Commonwealth Federation. He finished third in Winnipeg South against Progressive Conservative Owen C. Trainor. He also campaigned for the Winnipeg City Council in the 1953 municipal election, but was defeated in the city's predominantly middle-class first ward.\n\nDraffin was inducted into the Manitoba Sports Hall of Fame in 1981 in recognition of his soccer playing abilities and contributions to the sport.\n\nHe died in Winnipeg at the age of 73.\n"}
{"id": "2059152", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059152", "title": "Psion netBook", "text": "Psion netBook\n\nThe Psion netBook is a small subnotebook type computer developed by Psion. Released in 1999, it was aimed at the mobile enterprise market.\n\nSimilar in design to the later, consumer-oriented Psion Series 7, the netBook has a clamshell design, a VGA-resolution touch-sensitive colour screen, 32 MB RAM, 190 MHz StrongARM SA-1100 processor and a QWERTY keyboard. The RAM is upgradeable through the addition of an extra 32 MB chip. The netBook is powered by a removable lithium-ion rechargeable battery, giving a battery life of between 8 and 10 hours.\n\nThe netBook runs the EPOC ER5 operating system (the predecessor of SymbianOS). Unlike the Psion Series 7, the netBook operating system runs from RAM. A Java run-time environment, conforming to Java version 1.1.8, is available.\n\nIn October 2003 Psion Teklogix announced the NETBOOK PRO, replacing the original netBook. This was similar to the earlier model, but upgraded with a 16-bit colour SVGA (800 × 600 pixel) display, 128 MB of RAM, and a 400 MHz Intel XScale PXA255 processor running Windows CE .NET 4.2 instead of EPOC. It is also possible to run Linux on this model.\n\nAn open-source project OpenPsion, formerly PsiLinux, aims to port Linux to the Psion netBook and other Psion PDAs.\n\n\nPsion registered the trademark \"NETBOOK\" in various territories, including European Union and , which was applied for on 18 December 1996 and registered by USPTO on 21 November 2000. They used this trademark for the netBook product, discontinued in November 2003, and from October 2003, the NETBOOK PRO, later also discontinued.\n\nIntel began use of the term \"netbook\" in March 2008 as a generic term to describe \"small laptops that are designed for wireless communication and access to the Internet\", believing they were \"not offering a branded line of computers here\" and \"see no naming conflict\".\n\nIn response to the growing use of this term, on 23 December 2008 Psion Teklogix sent cease and desist letters to various parties including enthusiast website(s) demanding they no longer use the term \"\"netbook\"\".\n\nDuring the twelve years since Psion first lodged the original netbook trademark, the term had become perceived as sufficiently generic that later derivative marks were rejected by the USPTO citing a \"likelihood of confusion\" under section 2(d), including \"G NETBOOK\" ( rejected 31 October 2008), MSI's \"WIND NETBOOK\" () and Coby Electronics' \"COBY NETBOOK\" ( rejected 13 January 2009).\n\n"}
{"id": "2059156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059156", "title": "Mike Stulce", "text": "Mike Stulce\n\nMichael \"Mike\" Stulce (born July 14, 1969) is a former shot putter from the United States who was an outstanding athlete at Texas A&M University. He won the gold medal at the 1992 Summer Olympics in Barcelona, Spain. He is also three times national champion. In 1993 he won the U.S. National shot put Championships.\n\nStulce had returned from a 1990 two-year doping ban just in time to win the gold medal at the Barcelona Olympics.\n\nHe subsequently failed another doping test at the 1993 World Outdoor Championships and received a life ban.\n\n"}
{"id": "2059173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059173", "title": "Dalian Bay", "text": "Dalian Bay\n\nDalian Bay (), known historically as Talienwan, Talien-wan and Talien-hwan, is a bay on the southeast side of the Liaodong Peninsula () of Northeast China, open to Korea Bay () in the east. Downtown Dalian lies along the southern shore of the bay. Its significance is that it is ice-free year-round, while Jinzhou Bay () on the other, northwest side of the peninsula is part of the Bohai Sea (), and is shallow and closed by ice for four months of the winter.\n\nThe bay was the rendezvous point for the British fleet for the 1860 assault on China during the Second Opium War. In 1879, about 20 small islands with their bays around Dalian were named Dalian Bay and barbettes for military use were built after that. By the end of the First Sino-Japanese War of 1894–1895, most of the barbettes were discarded and a fishery industry started quickly. Now. only six barbettes remain, and they are located on Monk Island. They were built between 1887 and 1893.\n\nDalian Bay has one of the biggest fishing ports in Asia and it plays an essential role in the Chinese fishery industry. It has been a famous seafood distribution center since the 1930s, with thousands of people involved in commercial fishing coming to Dalian Bay for various transactions.\n\n"}
{"id": "2059188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059188", "title": "Katechaki metro station", "text": "Katechaki metro station\n\nKatechaki is an Athens Metro \"Blue Line (Line 3)\" station, located at Katechaki Avenue and Mesogeion Avenue.\nNearby locations include:\n\nVasso Peklari's \"Sculptural forms\" (Greek: Φόρμες με Υφαντό Χαλκό) is at the station's concourse.\n"}
{"id": "2059215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059215", "title": "Agnes Ayres", "text": "Agnes Ayres\n\nAgnes Ayres (born Agnes Eyre Henkel; April 4, 1898 – December 25, 1940) was an American actress who rose to fame during the silent film era. She was known for her role as Lady Diana Mayo in \"The Sheik\" opposite Rudolph Valentino.\n\nAgnes Eyre Henkel was born on April 4, 1898, in Carbondale, Illinois, to Solon A. Henkel (1858–1899) and Emma Slack Rendleman. She had an elder brother, Solon William Henkel, who was a decade her senior. She was of English and German descent.\n\nShe began her career in 1914 when she was noticed by an Essanay Studios staff director and cast as an extra in a crowd scene.\n\nAfter moving to Manhattan, New York City, with her mother to pursue a career in acting, Ayres was spotted by actress Alice Joyce. Joyce noticed the physical resemblance the two shared which eventually led to Ayres being cast in \"Richard the Brazen\" (1917), as Joyce's character's sister. Ayres' career began to gain momentum when Paramount Pictures founder Jesse Lasky began to take an interest in her. Lasky gave her a starring role in the Civil War drama \"Held by the Enemy\" (1920), and also lobbied for parts for her in several Cecil B. DeMille productions. During this period Ayres married, and quickly divorced, Captain Frank P. Schuker, an army officer whom she had wed during World War I. She also began a romance with Lasky.\n\nIn 1921, Ayres shot to stardom when she was cast as Lady Diana Mayo, an English heiress, opposite \"Latin lover\" Rudolph Valentino in \"The Sheik\". Ayres later reprised her role as Lady Diana in the 1926 sequel \"The Son of the Sheik\". Following the release of \"The Sheik\", she went on to have major roles in many other films including \"The Affairs of Anatol\" (1921) starring Wallace Reid, \"Forbidden Fruit\" (1921), and Cecil B. DeMille's epic \"The Ten Commandments\" (1923).\n\nBy 1923, Ayres' career began to wane following the end of her relationship with Jesse Lasky. She married Mexican diplomat S. Manuel Reachi in 1924. The couple had a daughter in March 1926, before divorcing in 1927.\n\nIn 1929, Ayres lost her fortune and real estate holdings in the Wall Street Crash of 1929. That same year, she also appeared in her last major role in \"The Donovan Affair\", starring Jack Holt. To earn money, she left acting and played the vaudeville circuit. She returned to acting in 1936, confident that she could make a comeback—but, unable to secure starring roles, and somewhat overweight, Ayres appeared in mostly uncredited bit parts and finally retired from acting for good in 1937.\n\nAfter her retirement, Ayres became despondent and was eventually committed to a sanatorium. In 1939, she also lost custody of her daughter to Reachi.\n\nShe died from a cerebral hemorrhage on December 25, 1940, at her home in Hollywood, California, at the age of 42; she had been ill for several weeks. She is interred at Hollywood Forever Cemetery. In 1960, Ayres was inducted into the Hollywood Walk of Fame with a motion pictures star at 6504 Hollywood Boulevard for her contributions to the film industry.\n\nHer daughter Maria Reachi (1926–2009) had a small part in the movie \"East Side, West Side\" (1949).\n\n"}
{"id": "2059217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059217", "title": "Champions on Ice", "text": "Champions on Ice\n\nChampions on Ice was a touring ice show in the United States. The show featured a large cast of both professional and Olympic-eligible figure skaters along with novelty acts such as skating acrobats. The shows were focused primarily on solo performances by the skaters rather than ensemble work or acting out stories.\n\nThe tour was originally run by Tom Collins Enterprises. Collins first organized the tour following the 1969 World Figure Skating Championships. It was initially known as the \"Tour of World Figure Skating Champions\", and featured top amateur skaters who performed under an arrangement with the International Skating Union (ISU). When the ISU liberalized its amateur status rules in 1990, Collins began to add professional skaters to the tour, as well as active eligible competitors. The tour adopted the name of \"Champions on Ice\" in 1998.\n\nIn November 2006, Anschutz Entertainment Group and purchased Champions on Ice. AEG is the owner of Champions on Ice U.S.A. while owns the brand in the rest of the world. In 2008, Champions on Ice cancelled its tour and formed a partnership with Stars on Ice. In 2012, Sergio Cánovas's new Champions on Ice began touring internationally, headlined by Evgeni Plushenko.\n\nSkaters who had a long association with the tour include Brian Boitano, Viktor Petrenko, Michelle Kwan, and Todd Eldredge.\n"}
{"id": "2059223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059223", "title": "Rudolf Criegee", "text": "Rudolf Criegee\n\nRudolf Criegee (* May 23, 1902 in Düsseldorf; † November 7, 1975 in Karlsruhe) was a German organic chemist.\n\nCriegee's parents' house was wealthy, his father worked as a court director. The Criegee family was attuned national liberal, Prussian and Protestant, what Rudolf Criegee felt as a great fortune. His happy childhood was ended by the World War I, already in March 1915, his eldest brother died on the Western Front, a second brother was seriously injured in the summer of 1916. Criegee himself was still drafted by end of the war as a young man.\n\nAfter the turmoil of the post-war period and the passed Abitur he matriculated at the University of Tübingen in chemistry in the summer semester 1920. After four semesters of study and moderate success, but the experience from the student fraternity Germania and twelve duels Criegee changed to the University of Greifswald. He remained there for three semesters and passed his first examination, after which he went to the University of Würzburg and received his PhD in December 1925 at Otto Dimroth with a thesis on acridinium salts. The joy about the successful completion was marred by the death of his father in 1926 and also his mother suffered from a serious illness, she died in 1932. Criegee remained in Würzburg and in 1930 he received his habilitation with a thesis on the „Oxydation ungesättigter Kohlenwasserstoffe mit Blei(IV)-Salzen“.\n\nIn 1928, Rudolf Criegee had married his former fellow student Marianne Henze. In 1932 he moved to the University of Marburg, where he was a senior assistant to Hans Meerwein. In November 1933, he was one of the signatories to the \"Vow of allegiance of the Professors of the German Universities and High-Schools to Adolf Hitler and the National Socialistic State\". In 1937 he received an associate professorship at the Technical University of Karlsruhe, but his work was interrupted by the World War II due to the two-time draft for military service again and again. In the summer of 1942, he was seriously wounded on the Eastern Front, his wife also died on February 10. Criegee was released for the research, but the institute was destroyed by bombs in the summer of 1944, and in December he married again.\n\nDuring the rebuilding, he declined several calls to other universities and was appointed a full professor in 1947, from 1949 he led the Institute of Organic Chemistry. Rudolf Criegee continued to refuse all calls to other universities, the new building, in which the institute was located since 1966, originated among his leadership. Even after his retirement in 1969 Criegee carried out research until his death on November 7, 1975.\n\nIn his scientific work he was primarily involved with oxidation processes of organic compounds, where he used Lead(IV) acetate and Osmium tetroxide as Oxidizing agents . A focus was the investigation on the Autoxidation of unsaturated cyclic Hydrocarbons to Peroxides.\nOne of his great achievements was the elucidation of the reaction mechanism for ozonolysis to form Ozonides The Criegee intermediate (or Criegee biradical) and the Criegee rearrangement are named after him. \nIn this context, his research on cyclic reactions and cyclic rearrangement-mechanisms led him, independently of the Nobel Prize–winning work of R.B.Woodward and R.Hoffmann (Woodward–Hoffmann rules), to the same conclusions as theirs, but he failed to publish his findings in time.\nIn the last years of his scientific work, he investigated the chemistry of small carbon rings, especially Cyclobutadiene and its Derivatives.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2059232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059232", "title": "Sticklinge", "text": "Sticklinge\n\nSticklinge is a small community outside Stockholm, Sweden on the island of Lidingö. The population is about 5,000 people. The locality Sticklinge udde is located in northern Sticklinge.\n"}
{"id": "2059246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059246", "title": "Terraserver.com", "text": "Terraserver.com\n\nTerraServer is a commercial website specializing in aerial and satellite imagery which was originally launched in 1997. It is owned and operated by TerraServer.com, Inc. in Raleigh, North Carolina. The company was previously named Aerial Images until May 2002 when the assets of Aerial Images were sold and the company renamed itself TerraServer.com, Inc.\n\nAerial Images was a part of the original project that involved Microsoft and Compaq as a demonstration of the real-world scalability of SQL Server and Microsoft's Windows NT Server. Aerial Images brought in satellite imagery from Sovinformsputnik (the Russian Federal Space Agency) and GeoEye. TerraServer expanded its partnerships and became an image provider for LandVoyage and the DigitalGlobe family of companies: GlobeXplorer and AirPhotoUSA, as well as imagery from the USGS and USDA.\n\nAfter an agreement that ended in January 2000, the operations split into two pieces. Aerial Images kept the TerraServer.com domain name to create a commercial site selling custom selected imagery. Microsoft went forward with their own imagery project, which provides access to United States Geological Survey imagery. The Microsoft project used the TerraServer brand name in a variety of ways including terraserver.homeadvisor.com, terraserver.microsoft.com, and terraserver.msn.com. In 2003, Microsoft rebranded its research service as TerraServer-USA, and then Microsoft Research Maps. There may exist confusion between the two sites, because of the name similarity. However, TerraServer.com, Inc. is the sole owner of the registered trademark TerraServer. The \"TerraServer\" name is a reference to 'Terra', which is Latin for 'earth' or 'land'.\n\nThe TerraServer viewer allows users to select imagery from different dates and of different resolutions. While most of the TerraServer imagery is focused on high resolution, color, satellite and aerial imagery, TerraServer.com also offers Color Infrared Imagery, Panchromatic Imagery, Low Resolution Satellite Imagery, and topographic maps. Subscribers to TerraServer.com gain access to a drawing and measuring tool that can measure surface distance and area on the images. TerraServer also makes a number of image overlays available, including road names, FEMA flood data, earthquake data, landslide data, real estate parcels, parks, schools, hospitals, airports, and zip codes.\n"}
{"id": "2059253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059253", "title": "Torre Annunziata", "text": "Torre Annunziata\n\nTorre Annunziata (; ) is a city and \"comune\" in the Metropolitan City of Naples, region of Campania in Italy. It is located on the Gulf of Naples at the foot of Mt. Vesuvius.\n\nThe city was destroyed in the Vesuvius eruption of 79 AD and in 1631. It is known locally in the Neapolitan dialect as Torre Nunziata. The city was once the seat of important ironwork (Deriver, Dalmine) food processing and pasta industries. Today industries still active include naval, armament and pharmaceutical ones.\n\nThe archaeological site of Oplonti is a UNESCO World Heritage site since 1997.\n\nTorre Annunziata borders with the municipalities of Boscoreale, Boscotrecase, Castellammare di Stabia, Pompei, Torre del Greco and Trecase.\n\nOn the Tabula Peutingeriana Torre Annunziata is called Oplonti.\n\nIn the communal territory, one of the richest Roman villas has been excavated. Dating to the 1st century BC, it probably belonged to the \"gens\" Poppaea, and is known as Villa Poppaea.\n\nAlthough a comparatively small town, essentially a suburb of Naples, Torre Annunziata has its own unique dialect, a variation of Neapolitan, quite distinct, particularly in pronunciation, which is known as Torrese.\n\nTorre Annunziata is home to F.C. Savoia 1908 who play at the Stadio Giraud and currently play in Serie D of Italy's football pyramid. Their highest achievement was during the 1923–24 season where they finished Serie A runners up.\n\nProfessional footballer Ciro Immobile was born in Torre Annunziata.\n\n\n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "2059258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059258", "title": "John Poole (politician)", "text": "John Poole (politician)\n\nJohn Silas Poole (June 25, 1872 in Kemptville, Ontario – December 29, 1963) was a politician in Manitoba, Canada. He served in the Legislative Assembly of Manitoba from 1936 to 1949. Initially as a Conservative, he became a Progressive Conservative in 1943 when the party changed its name.\n\nThe son of William Poole and Isabella Cranstoun, Poole was educated at Kemptville and in Winnipeg, Manitoba. He worked as a physician, and was president of the Manitoba Medical Association and College of Physicians and Surgeons. Poole also served on the Dominion Medical Council. In 1905, he married Mary Elizabeth McFadden.\n\nPoole first sought election to the Manitoba election in the 1932 provincial election, but lost to Progressive incumbent Adalbert Poole in the constituency of Beautiful Plains. He ran again in the 1936 election, and defeated Adalbert Poole by 183 votes.\n\nIn 1940, the Conservative Party of Manitoba joined with the Liberal-Progressives and smaller parties in a coalition government. Poole initially sat as a government backbencher, but left the coalition prior to the 1941 provincial election. Re-elected by acclamation as an anti-coalition Conservative, he returned to his party caucus after the election.\n\nHe again defeated Adalbert Poole, who was by this time a candidate of the Cooperative Commonwealth Federation, in the 1945 provincial election. He served as a government backbencher supporting the coalition, and did not seek re-election in 1949.\n"}
{"id": "2059264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059264", "title": "Notre Dame College", "text": "Notre Dame College\n\nNotre Dame College, also known as Notre Dame College of Ohio or simply NDC, is a Catholic liberal arts college in South Euclid, Ohio. Established in 1922 as a women's college, it has been coeducational since January 2001. Notre Dame College offers 30 majors and individually designed majors and confers undergraduate and graduate degrees through five academic divisions. The college had a total enrollment of 2,100 students in fall 2016. The main academic and residential campus is located east of Cleveland in South Euclid.\n\nFielding athletic teams known as the Notre Dame Falcons, the college is a member of the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) at the Division II level. Notre Dame is a member of the Mountain East Conference (MEC), a Division II conference that began playing in the 2013–14 school year. Prior to joining the NCAA, the college competed in the NAIA as a member of the American Mideast Conference. The official school and athletic colors are royal blue and gold.\n\nWhile the majority of Notre Dame's students are from Ohio, the student body represents 38 states and 19 countries. The college offers a number of extracurricular activities to its students, including athletics, honor societies, clubs and student organizations.\n\nNotre Dame College was founded in the summer of 1922 on Ansel Road as a women's college under the guidance of Mother M. Cecilia Romen. Later that year, Mother Mary Evarista Harks became NDC's first president (1922–1943). In its early years the college had a faculty population of 9 and a full-time student enrollment of 13 women and 11 novices; in addition 30 students were enrolled in extension courses. On June 15, 1925, NDC conferred its first graduating class in the form of two-year teaching certificates. In the following year, 14 students received their bachelor's degrees and state certificates to teach in Ohio high schools; becoming NDC's first graduating class of four-year college degrees. In June 1923, the Sisters leased along Green Road in South Euclid to build a new campus and purchased in 1924. Construction of the campus began in the fall of 1926 and opened on Sept. 17, 1928. The college later bought the in 1933. The college was originally located in a single building and expanded over time, Harks Hall was built in 1955 to house resident students with two other residence halls built in the 1960s. NDC constructed the Clara Fritzsche Library in 1971 and the Keller Center in 1987.\n\nTraditionally, this institution of higher education was primarily a residential campus, but in 1978, Notre Dame College began to offer a program known as Weekend College, or WECO. Local residents whose schedules prevented them from taking classes during the normal work week enrolled in weekend college classes to earn a degree. In 2003, WECO celebrated its 25th anniversary. On December 8, 1983, based on its architectural importance, Notre Dame College's historic Administration Building, built in 1927 in the Tudor Revival and other styles, was added to the National Register of Historic Places as Notre Dame College of Ohio. The building, designed by architect Thomas D. McLaughlin and built by contractor John T. Gill, originally housed the entire college.\n\nIn the fall of 1991, Notre Dame's Master of Education program started. The college saw its first M.Ed. graduates in 1994. Although men had been allowed to enroll in certain programs, such as NDC's Law Enforcement Education A.A. degree program in 1969 and later WECO and master's programs, in 2001 the college officially became coeducational with its first full-time male enrollment. The college graduated its first co-ed class on May 7, 2005. Since the college became coeducational it has seen enrollment double from nearly 1,000 in 2001 to over 2,000 in 2010. In 2008, NDC began construction on two additional residence halls, North and South halls. The structures opened in 2009 at a cost of $15 million.\n\nNotre Dame College offers associate degrees, bachelor's degrees, and master's degrees and is divided into five Academic Divisions:\n\nThe college also has three special programs and two interdisciplinary programs. NDC currently offers 30 majors in its bachelor's degree programs. It also offers an Associate in Arts degree in Pastoral Ministry. and a master's degree in National Security and Intelligence Studies.\n\nNDC's athletic teams are known as the Falcons, the colors are blue and gold. The school sponsors 22 intercollegiate teams. The college is a member of the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) at the Division II level. In August 2012, Notre Dame became a charter member of the Mountain East Conference (MEC), a new Division II league that began play in the 2013–14 school year. The MEC, made up mostly of schools leaving the West Virginia Intercollegiate Athletic Conference, also includes another Ohio school, Urbana University. It will sponsor 16 sports, eight each for men and women.\n\nNotre Dame College previously competed in National Association of Intercollegiate Athletics (NAIA) as a member of the American Mideast Conference (AMC). The college began the transition process during the 2009-10 academic year as a NCAA candidacy institution and was granted provisional status for the 2011-12 academic year. In July 2012, the college received notice it was accepted as a full member starting in the 2012-13 academic year; as a full member the college is eligible for postseason conference and NCAA competition. During its time in the NAIA, the college was known for its men's wrestling program. The team won back-to-back NAIA National Championships in 2010 and 2011. In 2014, the school's second year of NCAA eligibility, Notre Dame College won the Division II national wrestling championship lead by four-time national champion and undefeated wrestler Joey Davis.\n\nThe men's rugby team won the 2017 USA Rugby men's collegiate Division IAA national championship, defeating UC–Davis, 40–20.\n\nSports to be sponsored by the MEC are in \"italics\".\nSports to be sponsored by the MEC are in \"italics\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2059266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059266", "title": "Diane Drufenbrock", "text": "Diane Drufenbrock\n\nDiane Joyce Drufenbrock (October 7, 1929 – November 4, 2013), also known as Sister Madeleine Sophie, was an American religious sister as a member of the Catholic School Sisters of St. Francis. She was a Christian socialist who was the vice-presidential candidate for the Socialist Party USA in the 1980 United States presidential election.\n\nDrufenbrock was born in Evansville, Indiana. In 1948, after graduating Reitz Memorial High School, she moved to Milwaukee, Wisconsin, to enter the Franciscan Sisters. A mathematics graduate of Alverno College in 1953 and of Marquette University, she taught mathematics at Alverno College, at the University of Wisconsin–Parkside, and elsewhere around Milwaukee, including at the then-new St. Joseph High School (Kenosha) when it opened in September 1957.\n\nDrufenbrock gained a doctorate in mathematics from the University of Illinois at Urbana in 1963. After teaching for 13 years at Alverno College, she taught at Saint Mary-of-the-Woods College in her native Indiana for 18 years.\n\nHer interest in social issues led her to join the Socialist Party USA in 1976. She ran as their vice-presidential candidate in the 1980 United States presidential election, and served as that party's National Treasurer. That campaign resulted in the Party's recognition by the Federal Elections Commission as a national political party.\n"}
{"id": "2059268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059268", "title": "Sonargaon", "text": "Sonargaon\n\nSonargaon (; pronounced as \"Show-naar-gaa\"; meaning \"Golden Hamlet\") is a historic city in central Bangladesh. It corresponds to the Sonargaon Upazila of Narayanganj District in Dhaka Division. \n\nSonargaon is one of the old capitals of the historic region of Bengal and was an administrative center of eastern Bengal. It was also a river port. Its hinterland was the center of the muslin trade in Bengal, with a large population of weavers and artisans. According to ancient Greek and Roman accounts, an emporium was located in this hinterland, which archaeologists have identified with the Wari-Bateshwar ruins. The area was a base for the Vanga, Samatata, Sena, and Deva dynasties.\n\nSonargaon gained importance during the Delhi Sultanate. It was the capital of the sultanate ruled by Fakhruddin Mubarak Shah and his son Ikhtiyaruddin Ghazi Shah. It hosted a royal court and mint of the Bengal Sultanate. Sonargaon became one of the most important townships in Bengal. Many immigrants settled in the area. The Sultans built mosques and tombs. It was later the seat of the Baro-Bhuyan confederacy that resisted Mughal expansion under the leadership of Isa Khan and his son Musa Khan. Sonargaon then became a district of Mughal Bengal. During British colonial rule, merchants built many Indo-Saracenic townhouses in the Panam neighborhood. Its importance was eventually eclipsed by the nearby Port of Narayanganj set up in 1862. \n\nSonargaon draws many tourists each year in Bangladesh. It hosts the Bangladesh Folk Arts and Crafts Foundation, as well as various archaeological sites, Sufi shrines, Hindu temples, and historic mosques and tombs. \n\nSonargaon is located near the old course of the Brahmaputra River. To the north of Sonargaon are the Wari-Bateshwar ruins, which archaeologists have considered to be the emporium (trading colony) of \"Sounagoura\" mentioned by Greco-Roman writers. \nThe name \"Sonargaon\" originated with the ancient term of \"Suvarnagrama\". Sonargaon was ruled by Vanga and Samatata Kingdoms during antiquity. The Sena dynasty used the area as a base. The Deva dynasty King Dasharathadeva shifted his capital from Bikrampur to Suvarnagrama in the middle of the 13th century. Sonargaon is also one of the possible locations for the fabled land of Suvarnabhumi that is referred in cultures across the Indian subcontinent and Southeast Asia.\n\nMuslim settlers first arrived in Sonargaon circa 1281. In the early 14th century, Sonargaon became part of the Delhi Sultanate when Shamsuddin Firoz Shah, Delhi's governor in Gauda, conquered central Bengal. Firoz Shah built a mint in Sonargaon from where a large number of coins were issued. Delhi's governors in Bengal often tried to assert their independence. Rebel governors often chose Sonargaon as the capital of Bengal. When Firoz Shah died in 1322, his son, Ghiyasuddin Bahadur Shah, replaced him as ruler. In 1324, the Delhi Sultan Ghiyasuddin Tughlaq declared war against him and succeeded in capturing Bahadur Shah in battle. During the same year, Sultan Muhammad bin Tughlaq released him and appointed him as the governor of Sonargaon.\n\nSonargaon began to develop as a seat of Muslim learning and Persian literature. Many Persian and Persianate Turkic immigrants settled in Sonargaon. Maulana Sharfuddin Abu Tawwama of Bukhara came to Sonargaon circa 1270 and established a Sufi khanqah and madrasa, which imparted both religious and secular education. The institutions became reputed throughout the Indian subcontinent. Sharfuddin Yahya Maneri, a celebrated Sufi scholar of Bihar, was an alumnus of Sonargaon. Tawwama's book on mysticism, \"Maqamat\", enjoyed a strong reputation. During the administration of Roknuddin Kaikaus (1291-1301 AD), son of Nasiruddin Bughra Khan, \"Nam-i-Haq\", a book on fiqh (jurisprudence), was written in elegant Persian poetry, in Sonargaon. It is in 10 volumes and contains 180 poems. Though the authorship of this book has been ascribed to Shaikh Sharafu’d-Din Abu Tawwama, the author’s introduction testifies that the book was actually written by one of the disciples of Shaikh Sharafu’d-Din on the basis of his teachings. The \"Fatwa-i-Tatarkhani\" was compiled at the initiative Tatar Khan, the Tughluq governor of Sonargaon. \nThe Sultanate of Sonargaon became a short-lived independent state with control over central, northeastern and southeastern Bengal. When Bahram Khan died in 1338, his armour-bearer, Fakhruddin Mubarak Shah, declared himself the independent Sultan of Sonargaon. Fakhruddin sponsored several construction projects, including a trunk road and raised embankments, along with mosques and tombs. Sonargaon began to conquer areas held by the eastern kingdoms of Arakan and Tripura. The army of Sonargaon conquered Chittagong in southeastern Bengal in 1340. In the west, Sonargaon competed with the neighboring city-states of Lakhnauti and Satgaon for military supremacy in Bengal. Sonargaon prevailed in naval campaigns during the monsoon. Lakhnauti prevailed in land campaigns during the dry season. The fourteenth-century Moorish traveler Ibn Battuta visited the Sonargaon Sultanate. He arrived through the port of Chittagong, from where he proceeded to the Sylhet region to meet with Shah Jalal. He then proceeded to Sonargaon, the capital of the sultanate. He described Fakhruddin as \"a distinguished sovereign who loved strangers, particularly the fakirs and sufis\". In Sonargaon's river port, Ibn Battuta boarded a Chinese junk which took him to Java. After the death of Fakhruddin in 1349, his son Ikhtiyaruddin Ghazi Shah became the next independent ruler of Sonargaon. The ruler of Satgaon Shamsuddin Ilyas Shah eventually defeated Sonargaon in 1352 and established the Bengal Sultanate. \n\nThe three city-states of Bengal were unified into an independent sultanate. There was a decisive break from the authority of Delhi. Sonargaon became one of the major townships in the eastern part of the Indian subcontinent. It was a strategically important river port with proximity to the Brahmaputra Valley and the Bay of Bengal. The third Bengali Sultan Ghiyasuddin Azam Shah established a royal court in Sonargaon. The township flourished as a center for writers, jurists and lawyers. The vast amount of Persian prose and poetry produced in Sonargaon during this period has been described as the \"golden age of Persian literature\" in Bengal. The Sultan invited the Persian poet Hafez to the Bengali court in Sonargaon. The institutions founded by Abu Tawwama were maintained by his successors, including the Sufi preachers Saiyid Ibrahim Danishmand, Saiyid Arif Billah Muhammad Kamel, Saiyid Muhammad Yusuf and others. \n\nDuring the 15th century, the Chinese Treasure voyages included an expedition to Sonargaon. The Chinese embassies to Bengal were part of the mission of Admiral Zheng He. The information about this expedition comes from the book of one of its participants, Ma Huan. In 1451, Ma Huan described Sonargaon as a fortified walled city, with a royal court, bazaars, bustling streets, water reservoirs, and a port. \n\nDuring the Hussain Shahi dynasty, Sonargaon was used as a base by the Sultans during campaigns against Assam, Tripura and Arakan. The Sultans launched raids into Assam and Tripura from Sonargaon. The river port was vital during naval campaigns, such as during the Bengal Sultanate-Kamata Kingdom War and the Bengal Sultanate–Kingdom of Mrauk U War of 1512–1516.\n\nSonragaon hosted a mint. It was one of the most important townships in the Bengal Sultanate. It was the principal administrative center of eastern Bengal, particularly the Bhati region. High officials of the Bengal Sultanate were based in Sonargaon. Turkic, Arab, Habesha, Persian, Pashtun and Rajput settlers migrated to the region. Sonargaon also became the eastern terminus of the Grand Trunk Road, which was built by Sher Shah Suri in the 16th-century. The Grand Trunk Road was a major trade route stretching from Bengal to Central Asia. The prosperity of the Bengal Sultanate was attested by European travelers, including Ludovico di Varthema, Duarte Barbosa and Tomé Pires. According to travelers, Sonargaon was an important commercial center. Many of its weavers and artisans were Hindus. When the Bengal Sultanate disintegrated in the late 16th-century, Sonargaon continued to be a bastion of Bengali independence for a few decades.\n\nUnder Sultan Taj Khan Karrani, the nobleman Isa Khan, who was prime minister in the Sultan's court, gained an estate covering the area of Sonargaon. The Karrani dynasty was defeated by Mughal forces in western Bengal. Isa Khan and a confederation of zamindars resisted Mughal expansion in eastern Bengal. The confederation is known as the Baro-Bhuyan (Twelve Bhuiyans). The confederation included Bengali Muslim and Bengali Hindu zamindars, many of whom had Turkic and Rajput ancestry. Isa Khan gradually increased his strength and he was designated as the ruler of the whole Bhati region, with the title of \"Mansad-e-Ala\". \n\nIn the \"Ain-i-Akbari\", Abul Fazl wrote about the \"fine Bengali war boats\" of Isa Khan's navy. In the \"Akbarnama\", Abul Fazl stated \"Isa acquired fame by his ripe judgment and deliberateness, and made the twelve zamindars of Bengal subject to himself\". Isa Khan used the Jangalbari Fort. In 1578, the Twelve Bhuiyans defeated Mughal viceroy Khan Jahan I under the leadership of zamindars Majlis Pratap and Majlis Dilawar, after Isa Khan was forced to retreat during a battle on the Meghna River. In 1584, following an invasion by Shahbaz Khan Kamboh, Isa Khan and Masum Khan Kabuli launched a successful land and naval counterattack in Egarosindur on the banks of the Brahmaputra River, which repulsed the Mughal invasion. In 1597, Isa Khan's navy dealt a massive defeat to the Mughal Navy on the Padma River. The Mughals were led by viceroy Man Singh I, who lost his son in the battle. Isa Khan's navy had surrounded the Mughal fleet on four sides.\n\nIn 1580, the English traveler Ralph Fitch described Isa Khan's kingdom, stating \"for here are so many Rivers and Lands, that they (Mughals) flee from one to another, whereby his (Akbar) horsemen cannot prevail against them. Great store of cotton cloth is made here. Sinnergan (Sonargaon) is a towne sixe leagues from Serrepore, where there is the best and finest cloth made of cotton that is in all India. The chief king of all these countries is called Isacan (Isa Khan), and he is chief of all the other kings, and is a great friend to all Christians\". In 1600, the Jesuit Mission stated that after the defeat of the Bengal Sultanate, \"Twelve princes, however, called Boyones [bhūyān] who governed twelve provinces in the late King’s name, escaped from this massacre. These united against the Mongols [sic], and hitherto, thanks to their alliance, each maintains himself in his dominions. Very rich and disposing of strong forces, they bear themselves as Kings, chiefly he of Siripur [Sripur], also called Cadaray [Kedar Rai], and he of Chandecan [Raja Pratapaditya of Jessore], but most of all the Mansondolin [“Masnad-i ‘ālī,” title of Isa Khan]. The Patanes [Afghans], being scattered above, are subject to the Boyones.\"\n\nIsa Khan died in September 1599. His son, Musa Khan, then took control of the Bhati region. The dictionary \"Shabda-Ratnakari\" was compiled by the court poet Nathuresh during the reign of Musa Khan. After the defeat of Musa Khan on 10 July 1610 to Mughal general Islam Khan, Sonargaon became one of the districts of Bengal Subah. The capital of Bengal later developed in the new Mughal metropolis in Dhaka. \n\nSonargaon was one of the districts (\"sarkars\") of Mughal Bengal. The Mughals built several riverside fortifications near Sonargaon, as part of defences for the provincial capital Dhaka against Arakanese and Portuguese pirates. These include the Hajiganj Fort and Sonakanda Fort. The Mughals also built several bridges, including the Panam Bridge, Dalalpur Bridge and Panamnagar Bridge. The bridges are still in use.\n\nDuring British rule in the 19th century, the neighborhood of Panam City developed with townhouses, offices, temples, and mosques. European architecture influenced the design of the neighborhood. Panam was a wealthy textile business center, particularly for cotton fabrics. The merchants included Bengali Hindus, Marwaris and Bengali Muslims. \nThe Bangladesh Folk Arts and Crafts Foundation was established in Sonargaon by Bangladeshi painter Zainul Abedin on 12 March 1975. The house, originally called \"Bara Sardar Bari\", was built in 1901. On 15 February 1984, Narayanganj subdivision was upgraded to a district by the Government of Bangladesh. \n\nA subdistrict of Narayanganj District was named as Sonargaon. Due to the many threats to preservation (including flooding and vandalism), Sonargaon was placed in \"2008 Watch List of the 100 Most Endangered Sites\" by the World Monuments Fund.\n\nSonargaon was an ancient center of muslin production and textile manufacturing. The fertile farmland around the town also generated rice exports. The English traveler Ralph Fitch described the cotton textile weaving culture of the area in the 16th-century. Weavers formed a large part of the population. In 1580, he states \"The houses here, as they be in the most part of India, are very little, and covered with straw, hay and a few mats round about the walls, and the door to keep out the Tygers and the Foxes. Many of the people are very rich. Here they will eat no flesh, nor kill no beast; They Hue of Rice, milke, and fruits, they goe with a little cloth before them, and all the rest of their bodies is naked. Great store of cotton cloth goeth from hence, and much rice, wherewith they serue all India, Ceylon, Pegu, Malacca\". Sonargaon was a river port with access to the Bay of Bengal through the mouth of the Bengali delta. Maritime ships travelled between Sonargaon and southeast/west Asian countries. \nThe name Sonargaon survives officially as the Sonargaon Upazila of Narayanganj District in Dhaka Division of Bangladesh.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2059277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059277", "title": "Joe Berger", "text": "Joe Berger\n\nJoseph David Berger ( ; born May 25, 1982) is a former American football guard in the National Football League (NFL) for the Miami Dolphins, Dallas Cowboys and Minnesota Vikings. He was drafted by the Carolina Panthers in the sixth round of the 2005 NFL Draft. He played college football at Michigan Tech.\n\nBerger attended Newaygo High School in Newaygo, Michigan. During his two-year varsity football career, he played as an offensive lineman, and linebacker. He finished with 238 tackles and one interception.\n\nAs a senior, he was the team captain, an All-Western Waterways Activities Conference selection, and an Academic All-State honorable-mention.\n\nBerger was a walk-on at Michigan Technological University, where he was converted from a linebacker into an offensive tackle. He started three games at left tackle as a redshirt freshman.\n\nAs a junior in 2003, the football program was terminated due to budgets cuts made by the school, but through alumni funding, it was brought back in 10 days. He was lost for the season after suffering a knee injury in a game against Grand Valley State University. As a senior, he contributed to the team win the GLIAC championship.\n\nHe finished his college career with 28 games started at right tackle and three at left tackle. He was a four-time Academic All-GLIAC selection, a two-time CoSIDA Academic All-District pick, and a two-time All-American pick as a right tackle. He also played in the Cactus Bowl and the NCAA Division II All-Star game.\n\nBerger was selected by the Carolina Panthers with their second of two sixth-round draft choices in the sixth round (207th overall) of the 2005 NFL Draft, becoming one of only three football players to be drafted from Michigan Tech and the first since 1987 when the Giants selected quarterback Dave Walter in the 11th round (307th overall). The other Michigan Tech draftee, running back Jim Van Wagner, was selected by the San Francisco 49ers in the seventh round (183rd overall) of the 1977 NFL Draft.\n\nHe was waived on September 3 and was signed to the practice squad one day later. He would never play in a regular-season game with the franchise.\n\nOn September 7, 2005, he was picked up by the Miami Dolphins from the Panthers practice squad before the start of the season. He was declared inactive in two games and played in each of the final three games as a backup.\n\nIn 2006, a sprained right foot suffered in training camp kept him inactive during 11 games. He was waived on November 23.\n\nOn November 24, 2006, Berger was claimed off waivers by the Dallas Cowboys, but was inactive for the rest of the season (five games). In 2007, he was active for three games, but only played in the 4th quarter of the season finale in place of Leonard Davis at right guard.\n\nIn 2008, he played on special teams during the first three games of the season and was declared inactive for the final 11. During his time with the Cowboys, the team had a strong offensive line and Berger had a difficult time competing for playing time.\n\nOn February 27, 2009, Berger signed as an unrestricted free agent with the Miami Dolphins, reuniting with former Cowboys head coach Bill Parcells, who was the team's Executive Vice President of Football Operations.\n\nAlthough he was signed as a backup player, due to his ability to play multiple offensive line positions, he beat out Jake Grove for the starting center position, playing in 31 out of 32 games over the next two seasons, starting 20 of them. He was released on September 5, 2011, before the start of the regular season, after the team signed Ryan Cook.\n\nOn September 12, 2011, Berger signed with the Minnesota Vikings the day after the regular-season opener. On March 12, 2013, Berger re-signed with the Vikings on a one-year deal.\n\nBerger spent training camp and preseason with the Miami Dolphins and was acquired by the Vikings on September 12, 2011, the day after the regular-season opener at San Diego. In his first season as a Viking, Berger played in 13 games, starting seven at center, right guard and left guard during the season. He saw extended action at Chicago in week six, replacing injured starter John Sullivan at center in the 2nd half.\n\nHe then started a 4-game span at right guard in place of starter Anthony Herrera, with the first of the four games coming at Carolina on October 30. He started his first game of the season at center against the Green Bay Packers in week seven, the first start of rookie quarterback Christian Ponder’s career. He started in the final two games of season at left guard in place of starter Steve Hutchinson.\n\nIn 2012, Berger played in all 16 games. He was primarily used on special teams, where he was a regular on a kickoff return unit that ranked among the NFL leaders in return average and was tied for 3rd in the NFL with six returns of 40 yards or more on the season. He saw his first career playoff action in the NFC Wild Card game against the Green Bay Packers on January 5, 2013.\n\nIn 2013, Berger appeared in all 16 games, starting two, contributing on special teams and providing depth along the offensive line. He started at left guard and right guard in place of injured starters Charlie Johnson and Brandon Fusco against Washington and Philadelphia. He played a vital role on a kickoff return unit that helped rookie wide receiver Cordarrelle Patterson set team records for return yards (1,393), return average (32.4) and return touchdowns (2).\n\nOn March 12, 2014, the Vikings re-signed Berger to a one-year contract. Berger appeared in all 16 games and started the final nine games at right guard after starter Brandon Fusco was placed on IR, with the team going 5-4 in his starts and with Berger playing a key role in protecting Teddy Bridgewater on his way to the most productive season by a rookie quarterback in team history.\n\nOn October 19, 2014, Berger came into a game against the Buffalo Bills after starting center John Sullivan suffered a concussion; he blocked for rookie running back Jerick McKinnon’s 103-rushing yard effort against one of the NFL’s best run defenses and allowed no sacks and recorded a tackle. Berger finished the season having played in 61 consecutive games.\n\nIn August 2015, starting center John Sullivan suffered a season-ending back injury and was placed on injured reserve. Berger was named as the Vikings starting center and started every game for the 2015 season, helping Adrian Peterson run for a league-leading 1,485 yards and 11 touchdowns. For his performance, Berger was named the league’s best run blocker by Pro Football Focus (PFF).\n\nAfter 11 years in the league, this was Berger's first NFL season starting all 16 games. On January 6, 2016, Berger was rated 26.8 by Pro Football Focus (PFF), the highest among all centers in the NFL for the season. Over the final half of the regular season, Berger earned an above-average grade of +1.0 or higher in every game, including a peak of +5.3 against a stout Oakland Raiders defensive line in week 10. He was also the most consistent center as he had the lowest percentage of negatively-graded run blocks at the position.\n\nDuring training camp, Berger won the battle against veteran John Sullivan to be the Vikings’ starting center. On September 9, the team announced that Berger signed a one-year contract extension. He started 14 games. He missed two contests with a concussion he suffered in the eleventh game against the Detroit Lions.\n\nAfter the Vikings drafted center Pat Elflein in the third round, Berger was moved to right guard, where he started all 16 games. He led the offense with 1,116 snaps played, which were at right guard and one game at center, in place for an injured Pat Elflein against the Chicago Bears.\n\nOn March 23, 2018, Berger announced his retirement from the NFL after 13 seasons.\n\nBerger graduated \"magna cum laude\" with a bachelor's degree in mechanical engineering from Michigan Tech in 2005. He married his wife, Abigail, in 2004. They have four children.\n\n"}
{"id": "2059279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059279", "title": "Frontside (band)", "text": "Frontside (band)\n\nFrontside is a Polish metalcore / deathcore band from Sosnowiec, Poland, formed by Astek and Demon in 1993. They compose and perform their songs in both English and Polish.\n\nThe band was formed in 1993 in Sosnowiec, Poland by Astek and Demon. Early Frontside productions were hardcore songs with influence from many other genres, such as hip-hop. Compositions often included rapping, samples and scratching. However, these musical experiments ended on \"Our Is Kingdom...\" in 2001; they were replaced by riffs akin to thrash and death metal and harsh vocals. In mid-2003, Auman from the Polish thrash metal band Totem joined as the new vocalist when Astek left, and Daron became the new guitarist after Simon left. Together, they changed the band's musical direction more toward death metal, with characteristic riffs and death growling. Along with those aspects, the band also incorporated clean vocals.\n\n"}
{"id": "2059281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059281", "title": "The Two Ring Circus", "text": "The Two Ring Circus\n\nThe Two Ring Circus is a remix album by English synthpop duo Erasure that served as a companion piece to their second album \"The Circus\". It was released in 1987 on Mute Records in the UK and Sire Records in the US.\n\nThe vinyl version of \"The Two Ring Circus\" was released as a double 12\" album playing at 45rpm, featuring six previously unreleased remixes and three re-recordings. The CD and cassette editions feature an additional seven live bonus tracks billed as \"The Touring Circus\". \n\nThe first six tracks are all new remixes of songs that had already appeared on their second album \"The Circus\". The next three tracks are re-recordings of two songs from \"The Circus\" and one song from the band's debut album \"Wonderland\" featuring orchestral arrangements by Andrew Poppy. None of these nine tracks have appeared again on any subsequent Erasure releases or reissues.\n\nThe seven \"Touring Circus\" bonus live tracks on the CD and cassette mainly feature songs from Erasure's first two albums. The last track, a live version of \"Gimme! Gimme! Gimme! (A Man After Midnight)\" was their first remake of an ABBA song, foreshadowing a concept that would later provide them with a number-one in the UK in 1992 with the \"Abba-esque\" EP.\n\nAll seven of the CD and cassette live bonus tracks were recorded in Hamburg and were previously featured on the triple 12\" single release for \"The Circus\". There was a further live song per 12\" not featured on this album. All ten of these live tracks (plus an 11th originally featured on the \"Victim of Love\" CD single) are featured on disc 2 of the \"EBX 2\" box-set.\n\nThe US editions of the CD and cassette also include an additional remix in the form of an edited version of a previously released remix.\n\nUK chart rules at the time made \"The Two Ring Circus\" ineligible to chart. It became their second release to briefly slip into the US \"Billboard\" 200 chart, peaking at number 186.\n\n\n\"The Touring Circus\" (Bonus tracks on the cassette (LC STUMM 35) and CD (CDL STUMM 35)\n\n25667-4 / 25667-4\n\n"}
{"id": "2059314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059314", "title": "Matthew 4:12", "text": "Matthew 4:12\n\nMatthew 4:12 is the twelfth verse of the fourth chapter of the Gospel of Matthew in the New Testament. The temptation scene has just ended, and this verse begins the introduction to the discussion of the Ministry of Jesus, which makes up the bulk of the gospel.\n\nThe text in Koine Greek, according to the Textus Receptus, reads:\n\nIn the King James Version of the Bible the text reads:\n\nThe World English Bible translates the passage as:\n\nFor a collection of other versions see BibleHub Matthew 4:12.\n\nAccording to the theory of Markan Priority this verse is based closely on the very similar . The verse refers to John the Baptist, the central character of Matthew 3. It refers to his arrest by Herod Antipas. The Gospel of Matthew does not go into greater detail about his arrest until chapter 14.\n\nJesus returns to Galilee where he was raised, but left to be baptized in . Schweizer notes that the text does not make clear that the arrest of John the Baptist was the cause of Jesus' return to Galilee, only that the two events occurred at the same time. However, France notes that the word \"withdrew\" in Matthew almost always refers to a retreat from hostile forces, implying that is what is happening here. Both Judea and Galilee were under the control of Herod Antipas at this point, so unlike this is not a move to the domain of a different ruler. It is perfectly plausible that distant Galilee would be safer for John's followers than the area around the Jordan.\n\nMatthew also says nothing about what occurred between the temptation and arrest of John. Jones, and most others readers, believe that some months likely elapse. There is no historical record of exactly when John was arrested, which would clarify the dating.\n\nJesus is often portrayed as serving as one of John's disciples during this period. France agrees with this theory. He thus sees the arrest as causing an important change in Jesus' ministry. In the area by the Jordan it is presumed that Jesus adopted John's baptism based ministry. France argues the flight to Galilee induced a transition to a ministry based on itinerant preaching.\n\nThe term translated as \"cast into prison,\" or more accurately \"delivered up\" is one that will reappear frequently in the reports of Jesus' own imprisonment. Though Nolland notes that Matthew does not contain the same extensive John/Jesus parallels as Mark.\n\nSome early manuscripts containing the text of this verse are:\n"}
{"id": "2059316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059316", "title": "Gluggy", "text": "Gluggy\n"}
{"id": "2059320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059320", "title": "Leslie McDorman", "text": "Leslie McDorman\n\nLeslie Hill McDorman (January 19, 1879 – May 19, 1966) was a politician in Manitoba, Canada. He served in the Legislative Assembly of Manitoba from 1945 to 1949 as a Liberal-Progressive. He was elected to the Manitoba legislature in the 1945 provincial election, representing the constituency of Brandon.\n\nHe was born in Great Village, Nova Scotia and came to Brandon, Manitoba around 1901. McDorman was mayor of Brandon from 1944 to 1945.\n\nMcDorman's won the seat as the result of a local division in the Cooperative Commwealth Federation. Dwight Johnson had previously been elected for Brandon as a CCF candidate in a 1943 by-election, but was suspended from the party on suspicions of holding communist sympathies. He ran for re-election as an \"Independent CCF\" candidate, and the local CCF organization fielded a candidate against him. This division in the left allowed McDorman to win a fairly easy victory.\n\nHe served as a government backbencher for the next four years, supporting the administrations of Stuart Garson and Douglas Campbell. McDorman did not seek re-election in 1949.\n\nHe died in Rivers at the age of 77 and was buried in Brandon.\n"}
{"id": "2059322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059322", "title": "SIGMA (verification service)", "text": "SIGMA (verification service)\n\nSIGMA is an electronic verification service offered by Nielsen Media Research and is generally used for commercials, infomercials, video news releases, public service announcements, satellite media tours, and electronic press kits. \n\nIt operates by encoding the SIGMA encoder ID, date of encoding, and time of encoding in lines 20 and 22 of the video signal, which is outside of the area displayed on a normal television screen (this is similar to how closed captioning is transmitted). \n\nOn a professional video monitor with underscan capability activated or a computer display of the entire video frame, the SIGMA data will look like small, moving white lines at the top of the frame. Nielsen provides overnight reports of airplay in all television markets in the country.\n"}
{"id": "2059327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059327", "title": "Wuzhong, Ningxia", "text": "Wuzhong, Ningxia\n\nWuzhong () is a prefecture-level city in the Ningxia autonomous region of the People's Republic of China. It was known as Yinnan Prefecture () before it was upgraded to a prefecture-level city in 1998. In 2010, Wuzhong had a population of 1.3 million. Wuzhong is located in Northwest of China, the Yellow River flows through the center of the city.\n\n\nDuring the early and mid-19th century, the territory of today's Wuzhong—as well as much of northern Ningxia—became a stronghold of the Jahriyya Sufi order (\"menhuan\"), which was headquartered in the town of Jinjipu (a few km south of today's Wuzhong's main urban area). Under the leadership of the order's fourth and fifth \"shaykhs\", Ma Yide (the 1770s-1849) and Ma Hualong (d. 1871), it grew wealthy from the profits of caravan trade across Inner Mongolia, between Baotou, Huhhot and Beijing. Jinjipu became an important commercial and religious center.\n\nThe region features many mosques with unique architecture and different styles everywhere. Wuzhong is one of the main settlements of Hui people in Ningxia. Currently, there are 580,000 Hui people in the city, accounting for 47.2% of the total population of the city. Mosques are the main places for Hui people to worship and public activities, and play an important role for the Muslim population.\n\nWeizhou Grand Mosque was constructed during the Ming dynasty in a traditional Chinese palatial style. It was named by the American Episcopal missionary Charles L. Pickens, Jr., who traveled western China in the 1920-1930s and documented many places and people, as \"one of the most beautiful in all China.\" It was destroyed during the Cultural Revolution in the 1960s.\n\nDuring the Muslim Rebellion of 1862-1877, Jinjipu became the headquarters of the rebels in the Ningxia region. The town fell to Zuo Zongtang's troops in January 1871, and over a thousand rebels and residents were massacred; Ma Hualong with his family and Jahriyya officials were executed in March 1871.\n\nFounded in 1929 Ningxia Province; After the founding of the People's Republic of China, Hedong Hui Autonomous Region was established in April 1954. In 1955 changed to Hui Hui Autonomous, has 5 counties: hui county, gold product county, LingWu County, ZHUANSHU, Tongxin; In 1958, it was withdrawn from the state and transferred to Ningxia Hui autonomous region; In 1972, the Ningxia Hui Autonomous RegionYinnan region special office was established. In May 1998, Yinnan districtspecial office was removed as the prefectural Wuzhong city, Lingwu city was once under the administration of Wuzhong city. In December 2001, Lingwu city was officially designated as Yinchuan city.\n\nLocation: Wuzhong city is located in the middle of Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region, south of Zhongwei, north of Yinchuan, east of Dingbixian county in Shaanxi province, northeast, northwest and Inner Mongolia autonomous region of the Ike Zhaomeng and Alashan left flag, southeast and Gansu Qingyang region border.\n\nTopography: Wuzhong city is long from east to west and narrow from north to south. The topography is high in the south and low in the north, with Yinchuan plain in the north and Qingtongxia plain and hilly land in the south. Sichuan district dry average elevation of 1100 meters, the mountain elevation of 1300–1900 meters. The city's landform is made up of loess plateau, ordos platform, Yellow River alluvial plain and l mountain.\n\nRivers, mountains, the Yellow River is the most important river in hui, two cities (districts) flows through Sichuan area, the coastal terrain temple, since the Qin and Han dynasties has laid the Qin Qu, Han canal, Tang Laiqu important irrigation channels, such as a history of 2000 years. Here the land is fertile, ditches crisscrossing, forest belt salty network, drought and flood yuan yu, developed agriculture, known as the \"plugging Jiangnan\" reputation, rich in wheat. Rice, fruits, vegetables, Ningxia is the main commercial grain production base. Loess plateau in the south, suitable for forest and animal husbandry, is an important origin of ningxia tanyang and shaimao goats. The main mountain ranges are luoshan and niushoushan, among which luoshan is one of the three natural forests in ningxia.\n\nAt present, Wuzhong has eight advantageous industries: Energy and Power Industry, New Material industry, Milk industry, Wine industry, Construction Materials industry, Paper industry, Fur and Plush industry, Grass and Livestock industry. \nEnergy and power industry: at present, the total installed capacity of the city's energy and power industry reaches 1.55 million KW, reaching 3.5 million KW in 2008. New material industry (aluminum, magnesium, PVC, etc.): it has the production capacity of 280,000 tons of electrolytic aluminum, 25,000 tons of magnesium metal and 100,000 tons of PVC resin, which will increase threefold in 2008. Dairy industry: there are 15 dairy products processing enterprises, accounting for more than half of Ningxia's production capacity. \nBy 2008, the output value of the dairy industry has exceeded 6 billion yuan. Wine industry: at present, the production of wine accounts for 50% of the region. By 2008, the output value of the wine industry has exceeded 2 billion yuan. Building materials industry: at present, cement output in the building materials industry reaches 3.5 million tons, and the cement production capacity of the whole city reaches 6.6 million tons in 2008. Paper industry: Wuzhong has formed Yuhua paper industry, Xiaguang paper industry, Wuzhong paper mill and other paper enterprises with a certain scale. By 2008, the papermaking capacity of the whole region can reach 280,000 tons, and the output value of the papermaking industry can reach 1.1 billion yuan. Fur plush industry: at present, non-plush production accounts for 60% of the total volume of the district. By 2008, the annual production capacity of non-plush with Tongxin county as the focus has reached 3000 tons. Grass and livestock industry: by 2008, the high-quality forage planting area of the sheep and livestock industry focusing on Yanchi, Tongxin and Hongsibao has reached 4 million mu, the sheep raising quantity has reached 6 million, 200,000 beef cattle, and the output value of the grass and livestock industry has reached 1 billion yuan.\n\nLicorice Cashmere Hand caught lamb chop Goji Helan stone\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2059330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059330", "title": "Baumholder", "text": "Baumholder\n\nBaumholder is a town in the Birkenfeld district in Rhineland-Palatinate, Germany, in the Westrich, an historic region that encompasses areas in both Germany and France. The town of Baumholder is the administrative seat of the like-named \"Verbandsgemeinde\", a state-recognised tourism resort and, according to state planning, a middle centre.\n\nBaumholder lies between the Hunsrück to the north and the North Palatine Uplands to the south, right on a height that marks the latter's northern boundary. This area is also known as the Westrich. Baumholder lies roughly 10 km south of Idar-Oberstein.\n\nThe countryside around Baumholder is marked by many meadows, fields and woodlands, both broadleaf and mixed. A great part of the Baumholder Troop Drilling Ground abutting the town serves as a refuge for many plant and animal species that have become rare, for example the common kingfisher, the lynx and the badger, some of which are on the IUCN Red List.\n\nYearly precipitation in Baumholder amounts to 884 mm. At 76% of the German Weather Service's weather stations, lower figures are recorded. The driest month is April. The most rainfall comes in December. In that month, precipitation is twice what it is in April. Precipitation varies only slightly. At 46% of the weather stations, lower seasonal swings are recorded.\n\nIn 1156, Baumholder had its first documentary mention as \"Bemondula\", then held by the Bishop of Verdun. By the 14th century, it had ended up under the Counts of Veldenz, until 1444, when it was acquired by Palatinate-Zweibrücken. Until the French Revolution, Baumholder was the seat of a Zweibrücken \"Schultheißerei\". The Duke of Zweibrücken gave Baumholder leave in 1490 to fortify the market town.\n\nAlthough town rights were never explicitly granted Baumholder, the town acquired a number of privileges over the ages that have more or less amounted to as much.\n\nFrom 1816, Baumholder, along with the rest of the Principality of Lichtenberg, belonged as an exclave to Saxe-Coburg-Saalfeld. The Principality was sold in 1834 to Prussia and came to form the geographical centre of the Sankt Wendel district, whose bounds to this day define most of the bounds of the Evangelical church district of Sankt Wendel.\n\nWith the formation of the Territory of the Saar Basin in 1919, Baumholder was split from the district seat of Sankt Wendel by the newly drawn border and thereafter became the seat of the \"Restkreis\" (roughly “remnant district”) of St. Wendel-Baumholder. Its designation as a \"Restkreis\" arose from its being what was left of the Sankt Wendel district on the Prussian side of the border once the Territory of the Saar Basin had been formed under the terms of the Treaty of Versailles. It was run as a rural district (\"Landkreis\"), however. Once the Saar area was returned to Germany in 1935, though, the district remained separate. On 1 April 1937, the \"Restkreis\" was merged into the Birkenfeld district.\n\nIn the 20th century, Baumholder became a garrison town when the Wehrmacht built its barracks and troop drilling ground here. To do this, several thousand inhabitants were moved. Between 1941 and 1945, the troop drilling ground was the location of a prisoner-of-war camp for Soviet, Polish and other prisoners.\nAfter the Second World War, after a short occupation by the United States Army, French soldiers were stationed in Baumholder for a few years. These left the garrison when the Americans came back.\n\nThe United States Army built the troop drilling ground beginning in 1951 into one of its biggest garrisons in Germany, which also brought Baumholder a considerable upswing in its economy in the 1950s: bars opened, as did dancehalls and music halls.\n\nOn 1 January 1994, the municipality of Gutsbezirk Baumholder (\"Gutsbezirk\" means “estate area”) was amalgamated with Baumholder, although not wholly, for parts of the area were also shared out to other neighbouring municipalities in both the Birkenfeld and Kusel districts. The municipality of Zaubach had already been merged into Gutsbezirk Baumholder on 1 January 1978.\n\nOn August 10, 2005 a group of US Army soldiers engaged in a crime spree within the town of Baumholder, burgling several US Government buildings in Smith Barracks. The soldiers stole computer equipment, robbed a local German taxi driver, and ended their spree early the next morning by setting fire to the Town Hall (\"Rathaus\").\n\nLater that day, German law enforcement took into custody two US Army soldiers and were seeking a third for questioning. Investigators eventually questioned as many as 20 persons, both American and German nationals, for information about the crime spree. Private First Class Zachary Watson and Specialist Samuel Bell were arrested by German authorities in connection to the crimes which totalled more than €1.5 million in damage. The soldiers were handed over to US officials. Watson was sentenced to 15 years in prison at court-martial. In a separate court-martial proceeding, Bell was sentenced to seven years in prison, dishonourable discharge, demotion to private and forfeiture of all pay and allowances.\n\nThe council is made up of 20 council members, who were elected by proportional representation at the municipal election held on 7 June 2009, and the honorary mayor as chairman.\n\nThe municipal election held on 7 June 2009 yielded the following results:\nBaumholder's mayor is Peter Lang (SPD), and his deputies are Michael Röhrig (LFB), Christian Flohr (SPD) and Klaus Dessauer (SPD).\n\nThe German blazon reads: \"Das Wappen der Stadt Baumholder zeigt im silbernen Schilde einen aus grünem Dreiberg aufwachsenden grün belaubten Holder- (Holunder-) baum. Neben dem Stamm desselben erscheint an nach außen gebogenen grünen Stielen rechts und links je eine vergrößerte, naturfarbene (weiße) Blüte des Holderbaums. Auf dem Schilde ruht die dreitürmige steinfarbene Mauerkrone.\"\n\nThe town's arms might in English heraldic language be described thus: Argent issuant from a mount of three vert in base an elder tree leafed of the same between two elder blossoms proper, also issuant from the mount, the dexter with stem embowed to dexter and the sinister with stem embowed to sinister, the shield ensigned with a mural crown with three towers masoned and embattled proper.\n\nThe arms were designed in 1907 by the Berlin heraldic artist Prof. Hildebrandt, and go back to town seals and arms borne in the 16th and 17th centuries. The arms have been borne since 8 February 1909 when they were approved, with a signature on the watercolour original, by Wilhelm II, King of Prussia.\n\nBaumholder fosters partnerships with the following places:\n\nThe following are listed buildings or sites in Rhineland-Palatinate’s Directory of Cultural Monuments:\n\nThe regional dialect is highly consistent with the Saarland Dialect, a Rhine Franconian dialect spoken mainly in the east of the Saarland. German speakers from other regions often mistake Baumholderers for people from the Saarland for this reason, although Baumholder speech is a relative “island dialect”, for in all neighbouring centres, such as Kusel, Idar-Oberstein and Freisen, even in ones like Freisen that are actually in the Saarland, the pronunciation is noticeably different.\n\nBaumholder is a venue for the Hunsrück-Rallye and later the ADAC-Rallye Deutschland, which has every year since 2002, except 2009, been a stage in the World Rally Championship. The \"Altstadtfest\" (“Old Town Festival”) held at the same time as the rally is among the region's most important events.\n\nSince 2005, a triathlon has been held each year in the town of Baumholder. This is open to individual or team competition.\n\nOne of the town's best known clubs is VfR Baumholder sport club. Other less well known but important clubs include the \"Deutsche Lebens-Rettungs-Gesellschaft\" (DLRG), the \"Baumholderer Karnevalsgesellschaft\" (BKG, devoted to Carnival), the German Red Cross (DRK), the angling club and the dog sport club (HSV).\n\n\nBaumholder is well known as the location of one of the biggest American garrisons in Germany, which sprang up beginning in the 1950s on the lands of the Baumholder Troop Drilling Ground (\"Truppenübungsplatz Baumholder\"), which abuts the town. Ever since that time, the 13,000 or so United States military personnel and their dependents have characterized the town's image scenically, economically and even socially.\n\nThe Americans maintain two facilities, Smith Barracks and Wetzel Barracks, in which roughly 12,000 people live. There is also Baumholder Army Airfield. The Americans run twelve of their own churches as well as cinemas, a PX and a hospital. Many of the town's shops accept United States dollars in payment and are to a great extent dependent on American currency.\n\nTo this day, the United States forces and the Bundeswehr are the biggest employers of the town's German population. On more than 35 ranges designed for infantry, tank troops and artillery, Bundeswehr soldiers can be found training alongside Americans and soldiers from other NATO countries.\n\nThe troop drilling ground is under Bundeswehr administration. Since 2002, the US Army has been gradually moving its tanks to troop drilling grounds in the Upper Palatinate that are under their own control. Some of the US troops stationed in town were regularly deployed in the Iraq War, and for the most part, returned afterwards to Baumholder.\n\nOn 9 October 2012, the 170th Infantry Brigade was inactivated ending a decades-long legacy of combat units stationed at Baumholder's Smith Barracks. While Smith Barracks has been rumoured to be facing closure for years, it has been designated an \"enduring\" base.\n\n32nd AADCOM had a presence in Germany in the 1960s and 1970s.\nThere was a Nike-Hercules missile battery in Baumholder (Battery C, 5th Battalion, 6th Air Defence Artillery). There was another (Battery D, 5th Battalion, 6th Air Defense Artillery) in nearby Hontheim. The battalion headquarters was in Baumholder. An IHAWK battery, Battery D, 2nd Battalion, 62nd Air Defense Artillery, was in Reitscheid. Battalion headquarters was at Spangdahlem Air Base. They were supplied from the Spangdahlem Air Base (Bitburg-Prüm).\n\nBaumholder's inhabitants, however, are exclusively civilian. Agriculture today plays a role in the town's life only in a very few surrounding farms and villages. Given the small number of learned occupations available in the region, especially in Baumholder and the surrounding \"Verbandsgemeinde\", the share of the population with academic degrees is also rather small.\n\nThe attempt introduced in the 1990s to change the economic structure by, for instance, bringing in the recycling industry and doing seminal research at the Environmental Campus Birkenfeld in Neubrücke have thus far yielded little change in the local economy and job market.\n\nBaumholder can be reached over the Autobahn A 62 (Interchange 5 – Freisen). The town of Baumholder lies some 50 km northeast of Saarbrücken, some 35 km northwest of Kaiserslautern and some 50 km southeast of Trier.\n\nBaumholder has a railway link in the Heimbach (Nahe)–Baumholder line, a 9 km-long spur. The line was closed to passenger traffic on 31 May 1981, but remained open for military traffic. The line was reopened in 2015. Trains run hourly to and from Idar-Oberstein or Kirn, where connecting trains to Mainz, Frankfurt/Main and Saarbrücken can be reached. There is also a bus link to Idar-Oberstein and Birkenfeld (route 322, run by the \"Rhein-Nahe-Nahverkehrsverbund\"), although this is only run on weekdays, not weekends. The travel time to Neubrücke is roughly 30 minutes. Rail and bus services in the area are provided by Rhein-Nahe Nahverkehrsverbund (RNN). www.rnn.info.\n\nThe nearest railway station on a main line is in Heimbach (some 8 km away) on the Nahe Valley Railway. Since the reopening of the Baumholder service, few trains stop at this station. The closest station for express trains is at Neubrücke (some 13 km away) or in Idar-Oberstein (some 15 km away).\n\nThe nearest airport is Saarbrücken Airport. Frankfurt-Hahn Airport is about an hour's drive away.\nFrankfurt/Main is about 2 hours by car or rail. Saarbrücken-Ensheim is approximately 90 minutes away.\nZweibrücken Airport is about 80 km away but is currently closed.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2059335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059335", "title": "Analog modeling synthesizer", "text": "Analog modeling synthesizer\n\nAn analog modeling synthesizer is a synthesizer that generates the sounds of traditional analog synthesizers using DSP components and software algorithms. Analog modeling synthesizers simulate the behavior of the original electric and electronic circuitry in order to digitally replicate their tone.\n\nThis method of synthesis is also referred to as Virtual Analog or VA. Analog modeling synthesizers can be more reliable than their true analog counterparts since the oscillator pitch is ultimately maintained by a digital clock, and the digital hardware is typically less susceptible to temperature changes.\n\nWhile analog synthesizers need an oscillator circuit for each voice of polyphony, analog modeling synthesizers don't face this problem. This means that many of them, especially the more modern models, can produce as many polyphonic voices as the CPU on which they run can handle.\n\nModeling synths also provide patch storage capabilities and MIDI support not found on most true analog instruments. Analog modeling synthesizers that run entirely within a host computer operating system are typically referred to as analog software synthesizers.\n\nThe term was not used until the 1990s when the Nord Lead came out.\n\nExamples of VA synthesizers include:\n\n"}
{"id": "2059346", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059346", "title": "Nazarene Theological Seminary", "text": "Nazarene Theological Seminary\n\nNazarene Theological Seminary (NTS) is a Nazarene seminary in Kansas City, Missouri. The seminary was established by the Eleventh General Assembly in June 1944 and started its first school year in 1945 with 61 students. It moved to its current location in 1950. The seminary offers master's degrees in Divinity, Christian Education, Intercultural Studies, and Theological Studies as well as a Doctor of Ministry degree and non-degree programs.\n\nThe Church of the Nazarene, founded in 1908, has since its beginning stressed the importance of education. It started and developed a number of denominational colleges to meet the demand of its constituents for college training, and for some time it relied on the religion departments of its colleges as the principal means for training students preparing for ministry. However, during the quadrennium of 1940-44, sentiment favoring the establishment of a central theological school grew rapidly and finally crystallized in an action of the Annual Conference of the District Superintendents held in Kansas City, January 5–6, 1944. The conference recommended that the Board of General Superintendents appoint a Seminary Commission to study the need for such an institution. On January 10, 1944, the Board of General Superintendents appointed the commission: Russell V. DeLong, chairman, M. Lunn, secretary; E.O. Chalfant; M. Kimber Moulton, and Harlan Heinmiller.\n\nThe commission reported its findings to the Eleventh General Assembly of the Church of the Nazarene held in Minneapolis in June 1944. This assembly authorized the establishment of the Seminary as a graduation institution of the Church of the Nazarene. The first Seminary Board of Trustees was then elected and the name Nazarene Theological Seminary was chosen. The Board of Trustees unanimously selected Kansas City as the Seminary's location.\n\nAt a special meeting in Kansas City, September 1944, the Board of Trustees unanimously elected Hugh C. Benner as the Seminary's first president.\nMeeting in January 1945, the Board of Trustees elected the following full-time faculty: Russell V. DeLong, district superintendent of the Northwest Indiana District, as Dean and Professor of Philosophy of Religion; Ralph Earl, Eastern Nazarene College professor, as Professor of Greek and Bible; L. A. Reed, pastor of Chicago First Church of the Nazarene, as Professor of Preaching and Pastoral Ministry; Mendell Taylor, Bethany Nazarene College professor, as Registrar and Professor of Church History; and Stephen S. White, Olivet Nazarene College professor, as Professor of Theology.\n\nThe Seminary started its first school year in September 1945 in temporary quarters with 61 enrolled. The Nazarene Publishing House generously provided space for administrative offices and a classroom on the first floor of the General Editorial Building, 2901 Troost; and the management of the denominational headquarters building extended a similar courtesy in providing the Seminary with its main classroom and chapel. The library was house in the renovated coach house of the Headquarters property.\n\nIn January 1950, a site was purchased at 1700 East Meyer Boulevard, Kansas City. An administration and classroom building was erected on this campus in 1954. A library building was added in 1966.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2059350", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059350", "title": "Machaca", "text": "Machaca\n\nMachaca is a traditionally dried meat, usually spiced beef or pork, that is rehydrated and then used in popular local cuisine in Northern Mexico and the Southwestern United States. It is also readily available in many ethnic groceries and supermarkets in these areas. In areas where the dried meat product is not easy to obtain, slow-cooked roast beef (brisket) or skirt steak shredded and then fried is sometimes substituted.\n\nPrepared machaca can be served any number of ways, such as tightly rolled flautas, tacos, or burritos, or on a plate with eggs, onions and peppers (chiles verdes or chiles poblanos). Machaca is almost always served with flour tortillas, that tend to be large, up to 20 inches in diameter. A very popular breakfast or brunch dish is machaca with eggs, associated with miners in the state of Chihuahua.\n\nThe dish is known primarily in the north of Mexico, and the southern regions of the U.S. states of Arizona, California, and New Mexico. In central and southern Mexico, it is not well known by lower socioeconomic classes.\n\nMachaca was originally prepared most commonly from dried, spiced beef or pork, and then rehydrated and pounded to make it tender. The reconstituted meat would then be used to prepare any number of dishes. While drying meat is one of the oldest forms of preservation, the drying of beef with chilis and other native spices was developed by the ranchers and cowboys of northern Mexico.\n\nAfter the arrival of refrigeration, dehydration was no longer needed for preservation. Most dried beef is sold in the United States as jerky. In Mexico, it is still sold for cooking and snacking; this is done primarily in the north and in small-scale operations. Most machaca dishes now are made from beef that has been well-cooked, shredded, and then cooked in its juices until the desired consistency is achieved, which in Phoenix can be soupy, dry, or \"medio\". In Tucson, Arizona and southward, the preparation is almost always dry, and approximates more closely the taste and texture of the original dish prepared from dried meat. \"Carne seca\" is an alternative name for machaca in Tucson and Sonora, Mexico.\n\n"}
{"id": "2059352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059352", "title": "Barnum Brown", "text": "Barnum Brown\n\nBarnum Brown (February 12, 1873 – February 5, 1963), commonly referred to as Mr. Bones, was an American paleontologist. Named after the circus showman P. T. Barnum, he discovered the first documented remains of \"Tyrannosaurus\" during a career that made him one of the most famous fossil hunters working from the late Victorian era into the early 20th century.\n\nSponsored by the American Museum of Natural History (AMNH), Brown traversed the country bargaining and trading for fossils. His field was not limited to dinosaurs. He was known to collect or obtain anything of possible scientific value. Often, he simply sent money to have fossils shipped to the AMNH, and any new specimen of interest often resulted in a flurry of letters between the discoverer and Brown.\n\nAfter working a handful of years in Wyoming for AMNH in the late 1890s, Brown led an expedition to the Hell Creek Formation of Southeastern Montana. There, in 1902, he discovered and excavated the first documented remains of \"Tyrannosaurus rex\".\n\nThe Hell Creek digs produced extravagant quantities of fossils, enough to fill up whole train cars. As was common practice then, Brown's crews used controlled blasts of dynamite to remove the tons of rock covering their fossil discoveries. Everything was moved with horse-drawn wagons and pure manpower. Seldom was any site data recorded.\nAfter nearly a decade in Montana, Brown headed to Alberta, Canada, and the Red Deer River near Drumheller. There, Brown and his crew spent the middle 1910s floating down the river on a flatboat, stopping along the way to prospect for fossils at promising-looking sites. Trying to outdo them along the same stretch of river was the famous Sternberg family of fossil hunters. There was a playful, friendly rivalry between the Browns and the Sternbergs, and their competing discoveries went down in the annals of paleontology.\n\nIn 1910, in one of their most significant finds, Brown's team uncovered several hind feet from a group of \"Albertosaurus\" in Dry Island Buffalo Jump Provincial Park. For years the fossils were largely forgotten in the recesses of the American Museum of Natural History in New York City. In the 1990s, Dr. Phil Currie, then Head of Dinosaur Research at the Royal Tyrrell Museum of Palaeontology in Canada, relocated the site of the bones using only an old photograph as a guide. He recommenced excavations there in the summer of 1998, and examination of the site under the Tyrrell Museum's auspices lasted until August, 2005. However, after Currie took a new job at the University of Alberta, a new crew began working at the site in 2006, intending to continue for several years.\n\nThere was a homage to Brown in the 1998 IMAX film \"\", in which he was played by actor Laurie Murdoch.\n\nIn early 1923, Brown travelled with his then-wife Lilian to Yangon, the capital of what was then Burma. Brown focused his fossil prospection along areas of Pondaung Sandstone. A mandible with three teeth was recorded and catalogued at an exposure of sandstone outside of the town of Mogaung. He did not recognise the significance of his find until 14 years later, when Edwin H. Colbert, of the American Museum of Natural History, identified the fossil as a new species of primate and the earliest known anthropoid in the world. He named the holotype \"Amphipithecus mogaungensis\", or the ape-like creature of Mogaung. There is however considerable debate regarding its status as a primate and the lack of fossils compounds this issue.\n\nBrown lived at the tail end of an unprecedented age of scientific discovery, and was one of its more colorful practitioners. At dig sites in Canada, Brown was frequently photographed wearing a large fur coat.\n\nDuring World War I and II, he worked as an \"intelligence asset.\" During his many trips abroad he wasn't above picking up spare cash acting as a corporate spy for oil companies.\n\nBrown's second wife, Lilian MacLaughlin Brown, wrote a book of memoirs, \"I Married a Dinosaur\" (Dodd Mead, 1950), about her expeditions with her husband. She also wrote \"Bring 'em back petrified\" (1950) about a Guatemala expedition, and \"Cleopatra Slept Here\" (Dodd Mead, 1951).\n\nBrown was buried in Oxford, New York, the hometown of his first wife. Marion Raymond. Their daughter, Frances Raymond Brown, raised by the Raymonds, was Dean of Residence and Student Affairs at Radcliffe College at the time of her father's death.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2059365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059365", "title": "Bohor reedbuck", "text": "Bohor reedbuck\n\nThe bohor reedbuck (\"Redunca redunca\") is an antelope native to central Africa. The animal is placed under the genus \"Redunca\" and in the family Bovidae. It was first described by German zoologist and botanist Peter Simon Pallas in 1767. The bohor reedbuck has five subspecies. The head-and-body length of this medium-sized antelope is typically between . Males reach approximately at the shoulder, while females reach . Males typically weigh and females . This sturdily built antelope has a yellow to grayish brown coat. Only the males possess horns which measure about long.\n\nA herbivore, the bohor reedbuck prefers grasses and tender reed shoots with high protein and low fiber content. This reedbuck is dependent on water, though green pastures can fulfill its water requirement. The social structure of the bohor reedbuck is highly flexible. Large aggregations are observed during the dry season, when hundreds of bohor reedbuck assemble near a river. Males become sexually mature at the age of three to four years, while females can conceive at just one year of age, reproducing every nine to fourteen months. Though there is no fixed breeding season, mating peaks in the rainy season. The gestation period is seven and a half months long, after which a single calf is born. The calves are weaned at eight to nine months of age.\n\nThe bohor reedbuck inhabits moist grasslands and swamplands as well as woodlands. The bohor reedbuck is native to Benin, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Democratic Republic of Congo, Ethiopia, Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Kenya, Mali, Mauritania, Niger, Nigeria, Rwanda, Senegal, Sudan, Tanzania and Togo. The animal is possibly extinct in Ivory Coast and Uganda. Reckless hunting and loss of habitat as a result of human settlement have led to significant decline in the numbers of the bohor reedbuck, although this antelope tends to survive longer in such over-exploited areas as compared to its relatives. The total populations of the bohor reedbuck are estimated to be above 100,000. Larger populations occur in eastern and central Africa than in western Africa. The International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) rates the bohor reedbuck as of Least Concern.\n\nThe scientific name of the bohor reedbuck is \"Redunca redunca\". The animal is placed under the genus \"Redunca\" and in the family Bovidae. It was first described by German zoologist and botanist Peter Simon Pallas in 1767. The three species of \"Redunca\", including the bohor reedbuck, are the least derived members of the tribe Reduncini (except the genus \"Pelea\"). The order of size in the genus \"Redunca\" is an evidence supporting the descent of the reduncines from a small ancestor.\n\nFive subspecies of the bohor reedbuck have been recognized:\n\nThe bohor reedbuck is a medium-sized antelope. The head-and-body length is typically between . Males reach approximately at the shoulder, while females reach . Males typically weigh and females . The bushy tail is long. This reedbuck is sexually dimorphic, with males 10% to 20% larger than females and showing more prominent markings. \nOf the subspecies, \"R. r. cottoni\" is the largest, whereas \"R. r. redunca\" is the smallest.\n\nThis sturdily built antelope has a yellow to grayish-brown coat. Generally, the bohor reedbuck is yellower than other reedbucks. The large and diffuse sebaceous glands present on the coat make the coat greasy and give it a strong odor. Juveniles are darker than the adults as well as long-haired. While \"R. r. bohor\" appears yellowish gray, \"R. r. wardi\" is richly tinted. The undersides are white in color. A few distinct markings can be observed—such as a dark stripe on the front of each foreleg; white markings under the tail; and a pale ring of hair around the eyes and along the lips, lower jaw, and upper throat. However, \"R. r. redunca\" lacks dark stripes on its forelegs. The males have thicker necks. Its large, oval-shaped ears distinguish it from other antelopes. There is a round bare spot below each ear. Apart from sebaceous glands, bohor reedbuck have a pair of inguinal glands and vestigial foot glands, and four nipples. A bohor reedbuck can survive for at least ten years. The tracks of the bohor reedbuck are slightly smaller than those of the southern reedbuck.\n\nAs a prominent sign of sexual dimorphism, only males possess a pair of short, stout horns, that extend backward from the forehead and hook slightly forward. The horns measure about . However, some Senegalese individuals have longer and wide-spreading horns. In comparison to the other reedbucks, the bohor reedbuck has the shortest and most hooked horns. The longest horns are observed in \"R. r. cottoni\", which are hooked less than normal and may curve inwards. In contrast to \"R. r. cottoni\", \"R. r. bohor\" has short and stout horns, with hooks pointing forward. The length of the horns of an individual of a certain region seems to be related to the population density in that region to some extent. While short horns are observed in individuals of eastern Africa, where populations are dispersed, longer and wide-spreading horns are found on animals in the Nile valley, where populations are concentrated.\n\nThe bohor reedbuck is host to several parasites. The most notable helminths found in the bohor reedbuck are \"Carmyerius papillatus\" (in the rumen), \"Stilesia globipunctata\" (in the small intestine), \"Trichuris globulosa\" (in the caecum), \"Setaria\" species (in the abdominal cavity), \"Dictyocaulus\" species (in the lungs) and \"Taenia\" cysts (in the muscles). Other parasites include \"Schistosoma bovis\", \"Cooperia rotundispiculum\", \"Haemonchus contortus\", species of \"Oesophagostomum\", \"Amphistoma\" and \"Stilesia\". The common ticks found on the bohor reedbuck are \"Amblyomma\" species and \"Rhipicephalus evertsi\".\n\nBohor reedbuck are active throughout the day, seeking cover during the daytime and grazing in the night. A large proportion of the whole day is spent on feeding and vigilance. They can easily camouflage in grasses and reeds, and hide themselves rather than running from danger. When threatened, they usually remain motionless or retreat slowly into cover for defense, but if the threat is close, they flee, whistling shrilly to alert the others. It hides from predators rather than forming herds in defense. Many predators, including lions, leopards, spotted hyenas, African wild dogs and Nile crocodiles, prey on the reedbuck.\n\nIf shade is available, females remain solitary; otherwise, they, along with their offspring, congregate to form herds of ten animals. Female home ranges span over , while the larger territories of males cover . These home ranges keep overlapping. As the daughters grow up, they distance themselves from their mothers' home ranges. Territorial males are much tolerant; they may even associate with up to 19 bachelor males in the absence of females. As many as five females may be found in a male's territory. Territorial bulls drive out their sons when they start developing horns (when they are about a year-and-a-half old). These young males form groups of two to three individuals on the borders of territories, till they themselves mature in their fourth year. Large aggregations are observed during the dry season, when hundreds of bohor reedbuck assemble near a river.\n\nTwo prominent forms of display among these animals is whistling and bounding. Instead of scent-marking its territory, the reedbuck will give a shrill whistle to make the boundaries of its territory be known. As it whistles, it expels air through its nose with such a force that the whole of its body vibrates. These whistles, usually one to three in number, are followed by a few stotting bounds. This behavior is also used to raise alarm in herds. In this, the reedbuck raises its neck, exposing the white patch on its throat, but keeping the tail down, and leaps in a way similar to the impala's jumps, landing on its forelegs. This is accompanied by the popping of the inguinal glands in the legs. Fights begin with both opponents holding their horns low, in a combat stance; followed by the locking of horns and pushing one another. These fights can even lead to deaths.\n\nA herbivore, the bohor reedbuck prefers grasses and tender reed shoots with high protein and low fiber content. This reedbuck is dependent on water, though green pastures can fulfill its water requirement. A study of the bohor reedbuck's diet in Rwenzori Mountains National Park (Uganda) revealed that, throughout the year, the most preferred species was \"Sporobolus consimilis\". Other grasses the animals fed on included \"Hyparrhenia filipendula\", \"Heteropogon contortus\" and \"Themeda triandra\", all of which are species commonly found in heavily grazed grasslands. Bohor reedbuck preferred \"Cynodon dactylon\" and \"Cenchrus ciliaris\" in the wet season, and switched to \"Sporobolus pyramidalis\" and \"Panicum repens\" in the dry season. Though they rarely feed on dicots, these can include \"Capparis\" and \"Sida\" species. On regularly burnt pastures, the bohor reedbuck feeds on \"Imperata\" species, while in places close by water sources, it eats \"Leersia\" and newly sprouted \"Vossia\" species (like topi and puku).\n\nPrimarily a nocturnal grazer, the bohor reedbuck may also feed at daytime. A study showed that feeding peaked at dawn and late afternoon. In the night, two feeding peaks were observed once again: at dusk and midnight. They traverse a long way from their daytime refuges while grazing. Seasonal differences in the amount of time spent while grazing in a particular area is possibly related to the availability and quality of grasses there. The bohor reedbuck often grazes in association with other grazers such as hartebeest, topi, puku and kob. In Kenyan farmlands, the reedbuck may feed on growing wheat and cereals.\n\nMales become sexually mature at the age of three to four years, while females can conceive at just one year of age, reproducing every nine to fourteen months. Though there is no fixed breeding season, mating peaks in the rainy season. Fights for dominance take place in some particular \"assembly fields\", where up to 40 males may assemble in an area of . Some parts of these grounds are the main attractions - marked with dung and urine. The reason behind the attractiveness of these few spots for sexually active males is the oestrogen in the females' urine.\n\nCourtship begins with the dominant male approaching the female, who then assumes a low-head posture and urinates. Unresponsive females run away on being pursued by a male. A male keen on sniffing the female's vulva keeps flicking his tongue. As they continue their \"mating march\", the male licks the female's rump and persistently attempts mounting her. On mounting, the males tries to clasp her flanks tightly. If she stands firmly, it is a sign that she is ready to mate. Copulation is marked by a single ejaculation, after which both animals stand motionless or a while, and then resume grazing.\n\nThe gestation period is seven and a half months long, after which a single calf is born. The mothers keep their offspring concealed for as long as eight weeks. The mother keeps within a distance of of its calf. Nursing, usually two to four minutes long, involves licking the whole body of the calf and suckling. The infant is suckled usually once in the day and one to two times at night. The female's previous calf usually resists separation. At the age of two months, the calf begins grazing alongside its mother, and seeks protection from her if alarmed. Though after four months the calf is no more licked, it may still be groomed by its mother. The calves are weaned at eight to nine months of age.\n\nThe bohor reedbuck inhabits moist grasslands and swamplands as well as woodlands. It is found in two kinds of habitat in northern Cameroon: the seasonally flooded grasslands rich in grasses like \"Vetiveria nigritana\" and \"Echinochloa pyramidalis\" (in the Sahelo-Sudan region) and \"Isoberlina\" woodlands (in the Sudano-Guinean region). Often found on grasslands susceptible to floods and droughts, the bohor reedbuck can adapt remarkably well to radical seasonal changes and calamities. It is not so widespread as the bushbuck due to its habitat requirements. In some margins of its range, the bohor reedbuck shares its habitat with the mountain reedbuck. The ranges of the bohor reedbuck and southern reedbuck extensively overlap in Tanzania.\n\nEndemic to Africa, the bohor reedbuck is native to Benin, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Democratic Republic of Congo, Ethiopia, Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Kenya, Mali, Mauritania, Niger, Nigeria, Rwanda, Senegal, Sudan, Tanzania and Togo. The animal is possibly extinct in Ivory Coast and Uganda. Formerly widespread in western, central and eastern Africa, its present range extends from Senegal in the west to Ethiopia in the east. Among the three reedbuck species, bohor reedbuck is the most widespread in Tanzania. Its status in Burundi, Eritrea, Ghana and Togo is uncertain, while it is rare in Niger and Nigeria.\n\nReckless hunting and loss of habitat as a result of human settlement have led to a significant decline in the numbers of the bohor reedbuck, although this antelope tends to survive longer in such over-exploited areas as compared to its relatives. Natural calamities, like drought, are also major threats. While populations have declined in northern Cameroon due to degradation of floodplains through the construction of upstream dams, their habitat has been destroyed in Chad and Tanzania due to expansion of agriculture and settlement. Several deaths occur due to roadkill and drowning as well. During the dry season, bohor reedbuck are hunted with dogs and nets in Uganda. Reedbuck with the largest horns are prized by hunters.\n\nThe total populations of the bohor reedbuck are estimated to be above 100,000. Though the populations are decreasing, it is not sufficiently low to meet the Near Threatened criterion. Thus, the IUCN rates the bohor reedbuck as of Least Concern. Around three-fourth of the populations survive in protected areas. Populations of the reedbuck are either declining or uncertain in Boucle du Baoulé National Park (Mali); Comoé National Park (Ivory Coast); Mole and Digya National Parks (Ghana). Numbers in the Akagera National Park, where its last-known populations in Rwanda exist, have seen a steep fall.\n\nThough populations have substantially decreased in western Africa, bohor reedbuck still exist in Niokolo-Koba National Park (Senegal); Corubal River (Guinea-Bissau); Kiang West National Park (Gambia); Arly-Singou and Nazinga Game Ranch (Burkina Faso). Larger numbers occur in eastern and central Africa, mostly in protected areas such as Bouba Ndjida (Cameroon); Manovo-Gounda St. Floris National Park (Central African Republic); Bale Mountains National Park (Ethiopia); Murchison Falls National Park and Pian Upe Wildlife Reserve (Uganda); Maasai Mara (Kenya); Serengeti National Park, Moyowosi-Kigosi and Selous Game Reserve (Tanzania).\n\n"}
{"id": "2059381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059381", "title": "2005 in Swedish football", "text": "2005 in Swedish football\n\nThe 2005 season in Swedish football, starting January 2005 and ending December 2005:\n\n\n\n\nPrint\n\nOnline\n"}
{"id": "2059385", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059385", "title": "Lasqueti Island", "text": "Lasqueti Island\n\nLasqueti Island () is an island off the east coast of Vancouver Island in the Strait of Georgia, qathet Regional District, British Columbia, Canada and has a population of 399 people. A passenger-only ferry connects the island to the community of French Creek, near Parksville. The ferry makes two to three runs per day, five days per week, weather permitting.\n\nLasqueti Island was named in 1791 by Spanish Naval officer José María Narváez, commander of the \"Santa Saturnina\" (see Juan Carrasco (explorer)) after Juan Maria Lasqueti, a prominent Spanish naval officer.\n\n The island community is an enclave of Canadian counter-culture. Lasqueti Island is one of the least developed of the major Gulf Islands. Its roads are mostly unpaved, and it is the only one of the larger Gulf Islands that is not currently connected to BC Hydro's electrical power grid. Solar, wind, micro-hydro, and fossil fueled generators power the island.\n\nThere is a hotel and a restaurant in False Bay, where the ferry arrives and departs. There are at least three B&B's on the island, but services are seasonal and very limited. Potable water may be scarce at times, in different places on the island. There are local markets and an informal food cooperative but they operate at odd hours, depending on the season and demand. Lasqueti island has a yearly Arts Festival on Canada Day Weekend, and other activities. These different festivals and informal activities feature local painters, sculptors, poets, fiction writers, and historians. Performing arts, on the Canada Day long-weekend, include: The Bolting Brassicas (marching band), the Lasquirkus (circus), and other activities.\n\nThe island has a reputation for sailing and sea kayaking which is considered among some of the finest, but also among the most challenging, in lower British Columbia. Tides and currents may become foreboding without warning - the winter weather down the Strait of Georgia has been responsible for various mariners' deaths.\n\nThe island is currently under the jurisdiction of the Oceanside RCMP detachment, based out of Parksville. The island maintains a two truck volunteer fire department.\n\nThe island had a population of 399 in the Canada 2016 Census, down 6% from the Canada 2011 Census, and a land area of 73.32 km² (28.3 sq mi).\n\nAquaculture includes clams, geoducks, oysters, honey mussels, and prawns. Agriculture include seasonal vegetables, orchards, nuts, and berries. There are a few farms on Lasqueti Island. Their products range from blueberries, apple juice, eggs, to maple syrup. There also is a shellfish farm and a shellfish hatchery.\n\nThe island is generally divided between drier and wetter areas. The latter often characterized by red cedar and the former by native cacti, arbutus and succulent plants. Some old growth forest still exists on this island as well giving it a unique flora and fauna coverage. The understory of the forests on the island have seen extensive damage due to the proliferation of feral sheep.\n\nThe soils on this island for the most part are shallow, stony deposits over bedrock which is almost entirely igneous and largely basaltic.\n\nSquitty Bay is Lasqueti Island’s only Provincial Park. There is also the Lasqueti Island Ecological Reserve. Camping or campfires are not allowed at any of the parks on Lasqueti Island.\n\nJedediah Island Marine Provincial Park and Sabine Channel Provincial Park are provincial parks that exist on nearby islands. Camping is allowed at both of these provincial parks. Jedediah Island Marine Provincial Park is the site of a heritage farm of a former settler.\n\nLasqueti Island is featured in an investigative news report by Global's 16x9 called Off the Grid, which aired on April 28, 2012.\n\nMajor:\nMinor:\n\n"}
{"id": "2059396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059396", "title": "The Innocents (Erasure album)", "text": "The Innocents (Erasure album)\n\nThe Innocents is the third studio album by Erasure, released in 1988. Produced by Stephen Hague and released by Mute Records in Germany and the UK and Sire/Reprise Records in the USA, it was the release that made Erasure superstars in their home country and gave them their long-awaited breakthrough in the U.S.\n\n\"The Innocents\" became the first in a string of number-one albums by Erasure in the UK, turning double platinum with sales over 600,000. Thanks to heavy exposure on MTV, it also spawned two major \"Billboard\" Hot 100 hits, a Top 50 placing on the \"Billboard\" 200 and Platinum album certification in the U.S. According To Nielsen SoundScan, 23 years after its release the album has sold a total of 5 million copies worldwide. It is their best selling album to date.\n\nThe album was remastered and re-released on to celebrate its 21st anniversary. Prefaced by an EP of remixes led by album track \"Phantom Bride,\" the 21st Anniversary Edition came in a couple of flavours including a limited edition two CD / DVD set, packed inside a CD-sized 20-page hardback book that includes interviews with Vince Clarke and Andy Bell about the making of the record and their thoughts on all the tracks.\n\nThe second CD includes various rarities, including the 7″ version of the duo's take on \"River Deep, Mountain High\" and US-specific remixes of \"Chains of Love\" and \"A Little Respect\" that weren't released in the UK singles box set.\n\nAll tracks written by Andy Bell and Vince Clarke, unless otherwise noted.\n\n\n\nsame as above\n\n\nThe Innocents Live – NEC Birmingham 15/11/88\n\nThe Innocents at the BBC\n\nThe Innocents - Promotional Videos\n\nThe Innocents Live - Downloads\n\nSubsequent to their acquisition of Erasure's back catalog, and in anticipation of the band's 30th anniversary, BMG commissioned reissues of all previously released UK editions of Erasure albums up to and including 2007's \"Light at the End of the World\". All titles were pressed and distributed by Play It Again Sam on 180-gram vinyl and shrinkwrapped with a custom anniversary sticker.\n"}
{"id": "2059399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059399", "title": "Olu Oguibe", "text": "Olu Oguibe\n\nHe is also an art historian, art curator, and leading contributor to post-colonial theory and new information technology studies.(born 14 October 1964) is a Nigerian-born American artist and intellectual. Professor of Art and African-American Studies at the University of Connecticut, Storrs, Oguibe is a senior fellow of the Vera List Center for Art and Politics at the New School, New York City, and the Smithsonian Institution in Washington, DC. He is also an art historian, art curator, and leading contributor to post-colonial theory and new information technology studies.. Oguibe was honoured with the State of Connecticut Governor's Arts Award for excellence and lifetime achievement on 15 June 2013.\n\nBorn on 14 October 1964 in Aba, Nigeria, Oguibe was educated in Nigeria and England. In 1986, he earned a degree in Fine and Applied Arts from the University of Nigeria. In 1992, he received a PhD in art history from the School of Oriental and African Studies University of London for his thesis \"Uzo Egonu: An African Artist in the West\" (also the title of his 1995 book).\n\n. To date his art has been shown in major museums and galleries around the world including the Whitney Museum of American Art; the Whitechapel Gallery and the Barbican Center in London; Migros Museum, Zurich; the Irish Museum of Modern Art, and Bonnefantenmuseum, Maastricht, among many others; as well as in the Havana, Busan, and Johannesburg biennials, and most recently at the 2007 Venice Biennial. His public art works may be found in Germany, Japan and Korea. Oguibe has previously taught in several colleges including the University of Illinois at Chicago and the University of South Florida where he held the Stuart Golding Endowed Chair in African Art. His monumental public sculpture, \"Monument to Strangers and Refugees,\" was commissioned for Documenta 14 (2017). The concrete obelisk, inscribed in gold with a verse from Matthew 25:35, \"I was a stranger and you took me in,\" in German, English, Arabic, and Turkish, was designed for Königsplatz (King’s Square) in Kassel. For the work, Oguibe was awarded the Arnold Bode Prize in July 2017.\n\nHe has also served as curator or co-curator for numerous exhibitions. These include the 2nd Biennale of Ceramics in Contemporary Art in Genoa and Albisola, Italy, in 2003; Vidarte 2002: International Video and Media Art Festival at the Palacio Postal, Mexico City, in 2002; Century City at the Tate Modern, London, in 2001; \"Authentic/Ex-centric: Africa in and out of Africa\" for the 49th Venice Biennale in 2001, and \"Five Continents and One City: 3rd International Salon of Painting\" at the Museo de la Ciudad, Mexico City, in 2000. He has served as advisor for the Dakar, Johannesburg, and Havana biennials and as critic-in-residence at the Art Omi International artists’ residency.\n\nOguibe’s critical and theoretical writings have appeared in several key volumes including \"The Dictionary of Art\", \"Art History and its Methods, Art in Theory 1900-2000, The Visual Culture Reader, The Third Text Reader on Art and Culture, The Black British Culture and Society Reader\", and \"Theory in Contemporary Art: From 1985 to the Present\", as well as numerous serials such as \"Frieze\", \"Flash Art International\", \"Art Journal\", \"Texte zur Kunst\", \"Zum Thema\", \"Third Text\" and \"Criterios\". His most recent books include \"Reading the Contemporary: African Art from Theory to the Marketplace\" (MIT Press, 2000) and \"The Culture Game\" (University of Minnesota Press, 2004).\n"}
{"id": "2059406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059406", "title": "Robert Hawkins (Manitoba politician)", "text": "Robert Hawkins (Manitoba politician)\n\nRobert Hawkins (May 29, 1879 at Buckland St. Mary, Somerset, England – June 19, 1962) was a politician in Manitoba, Canada. He served in the Legislative Assembly of Manitoba from 1932 to 1949 as a Liberal-Progressive, and was Speaker of the legislature from 1937 to 1949.\n\nHawkins was educated in Bristol, and came to Canada in 1904. He worked as an insurance, real estate and financial agent, serving as president of Robert Hawkins Co. Ltd.\n\nHe was first elected to the Manitoba legislature in the 1932 provincial election, defeating Conservative candidate Ernest N. McGirr, 266 votes in the Dauphin constituency. He was re-elected over McGirr by a greater margin in the 1936 election. On February 18, 1937, he was chosen as Speaker of the Assembly.\n\nHawkins was re-elected by acclamation in the 1941 provincial election, and defeated a candidate of the Cooperative Commonwealth Federation in 1945. He did not seek re-election in 1949.\n"}
{"id": "2059409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059409", "title": "Silhouette Mirage", "text": "Silhouette Mirage\n\nSilhouette Mirage is a 2D action side-scrolling video game developed by Treasure and released in 1997. The game's primary mechanic is the two opposing attributes, \"Silhouette\" and \"Mirage\" and the way they are able to cause damage to each other. Shyna features as the female protagonist who is able to switch between these attributes at will by facing either left or right on-screen. Secondary mechanics in the form of various melee moves are used to get enemies onto the correct side of the screen so that when Shyna is facing them, she is able to use the correct, opposing attribute to damage them.\n\nIt was first published by ESP for the Sega Saturn in 1997 in Japan. It was ported to the PlayStation in 1998. In 2000, Working Designs translated, made significant alterations to, and published the game for the PlayStation in North America. This English-language release was criticised due to the alterations being detrimental to gameplay, making it less frantic and more difficult, thereby reducing the natural flow seen in the original.\n\n\"Silhouette Mirage\" is an action side-scroller and features seven levels presented in a 2D view. The game's major mechanic is based around the concept of two opposing attributes, \"Silhouette\" and \"Mirage\". Enemies are either \"Silhouette\", which can only be destroyed using \"Mirage\" attacks or \"Mirage\" which can only be destroyed using \"Silhouette\" attacks\". The protagonist Shyna automatically changes between these different forms when facing in a certain direction. When facing right she turns red and uses \"Mirage\" attacks and when facing left she turns blue and uses \"Silhouette\" attacks. Both Shyna and enemies have health, which is reduced by being hit with the opposite attribute attack, and \"spirit\" which is reduced by being hit with the same attribute attack. Spirit determines how much damage a weapon does. Since getting on the correct side of an enemy is an integral part of gameplay, Shyna is capable of grappling, throwing and sliding, all of which can be used to get an enemy on the correct side so they can be damaged with the corresponding (opposite) attribute attack. These melee attacks do not damage enemies. Some bosses are able to switch between \"Silhouette\" and \"Mirage\".\n\nShyna also has the ability to triple jump, crawl and dash. Crawling and dashing allows the player to run up walls and along ceilings which acts as both an evasive and defensive technique and also as a means to reach hidden or seemingly unreachable areas. Shyna is also armed with a reflector that allows her to bounce enemy projectiles back at them. Additional weapons/magic known as \"parasites\", such as \"Surosa\" (single shots), \"Cavitas\" (homing blasts) and \"Grattoni\" (a powerful laser) can be purchased with coins from the Hare Wares vendor at certain points in the game. A small amount of coins are collected by killing enemies; however, more coins can be obtained by mugging them using a technique called \"Cash Bash\". In addition to being able to save progress, the game also uses a system of continues which was more common in arcade games or games from previous generations. The player only has a single life, but can continue up to nine times. \n\nThe game's difficulty was increased in the North American version, with weapon prices being increased, enemies causing more damage, and the player's spirit energy reducing as they use weapons. Due to this new spirit reduction feature, when Shyna reduces an enemy's spirit, she now also absorbs this spirit. Most of the initial options are also locked in this version, and can only be modified by completing the game's five paths, upon which a special bonus feature is also unlocked.\n\nThe game is set on Earth in the year \"2XXX\" after a system known as Edo has catastrophically failed and caused the world's inhabitants to be genetically mutated into beings known as either \"\"Silhouette\"\" or \"\"Mirage\"\". The protagonist Shyna Nera Shyna is a creation that is activated by the computer system Gehena. Shyna's purpose is to track down and repair Edo to undo the damage that has been done and unite the two opposed types of beings that were created. Shyna learns that Edo experimented on and created a being called Armageddon who was both Silhouette and Mirage. Due to the polar nature of these attributes, Armageddon was split into two individual entities known as Medigo and Hal, respectively the Silhouette and Mirage leaders. Those that display both of the attributes are known as Proteans, and in addition to Armageddon, Shyna and Zohar are also such beings. Shyna battles through Silhouette and Mirage creatures, including Medigo, Hal and Zohar. She is eventually able to repair and reboot Edo. Gehena then notifies Shyna that all Silhouette and Mirage lifeforms will be located, identified, processed and returned to their original selves. Gehena estimates that this process will take 932,000 hours to complete.\n\n\"Silhouette Mirage\" was developed by Treasure. At the time the developer was shifting their focus to the Nintendo 64 and PlayStation, and announced that \"Silhouette Mirage\" would be their final game for the Sega Saturn. (In actuality, Treasure would go on to make one further Saturn game, \"Radiant Silvergun\".) According to director Masaki Ukyo, the original concept was to incorporate the idea of two different attributes to make a unique action game, and that other concepts such as grabbing, throwing and \"Cash Bash\" were added later in development simply because \"we got all these cool ideas and wanted to add them\". The gameplay mechanic of the player's power dropping if the spirit gauge falls was added near the end of development, and was based on a system Treasure used in \"Guardian Heroes\" (1996). The character Shyna originally had a more typical fantasy witch design, but producer Koichi Kimura did not feel comfortable with fantasy settings, so gave the setting and character a futuristic design. He decided to use chibi character designs because he was not skilled at drawing realistic characters.\n\n\"Silhouette Mirage\" was released in Japan on the Sega Saturn on September 10, 1997. Sega, which had published Treasure's previous Saturn game, \"Guardian Heroes\", expressed a lack of interest in releasing the game in the West.\n\nThe game was ported to the PlayStation as \"Silhouette Mirage: Reprogrammed Hope\" in Japan on July 23, 1998. Treasure handled the port completely in house with a small team, including the difficult adaption of the 2D view into the PlayStation format. The soundtrack was trimmed with the training music being replaced and a few minor background elements were simplified or removed. The Reaper and Geluve bosses are exclusive to the PlayStation version. The game's story was also adjusted to accommodate these new characters, resulting in some more dialogue, a new battleground, and another ending. This version was released as a PS one Classic on the Japanese PlayStation Network on August 25, 2010.\n\nAmerican publisher Working Designs localized the PlayStation version for North America and made further alterations. They increased the gameplay difficulty, and added vibration support and memory card selection. Working Designs discovered that the game used virtual controllers to control enemy bosses, and took advantage of this to make Zohar a fully playable character during the credits. Cutscenes were enhanced to run at a slightly higher resolution. There are also secrets such as a debug mode, more options, and \"Super Core Fighter 2\", a two player mini-game battle between Shyna and Zohar. Also, the Hare Wares sprites were censored/edited. His cigarette was replaced with a gloved hand, and the burning cross was replaced with a dragon. A preview video for , another game localized by Working Designs, was also added to the game. Some character and location names that reference the Bible were also changed.\n\n\"Edge\" praised the game as being a \"frantic, polished battle\" and commented on the novel mechanics of the game, however they ultimately summarised that its major flaw was that it \"degenerates into mindless button bashing\". The resulting score was 6/10.\n\n\"Next Generation\" noted that the release of \"Silhouette Mirage\" showcased that Treasure was continuing to innovate within the bounds of an outdated video game genre. They called the game a success but also noted that Treasure's \"tendency towards too much\" and the unbalanced power-ups were substantial shortcomings.\n\nIn retrospect, producer Kimura questioned some of his gameplay decisions that potentially resulted in the view that the game was too complex or overwhelming, especially how he introduced players to the mechanics of the game - \"I unloaded all the details of the gameplay system (reflecting shots, money, etc.) on the player all at once, right at the beginning... I wonder if that was my mistake\". He admitted that \"The world was not so kind to \"Silhouette Mirage\"\" because \"For the people whom the system didn't really click with, this was a perplexing game\".\n\nGreg Orlando reviewed the PlayStation version of the game for \"Next Generation\", rating it three stars out of five, and stated that \"Befuddled baseball player Richie Ashburn once quipped, 'I don't know what it is, but I know I've never seen it before.' He might as well have said it while jamming away on the eminently quirky and playable \"Silhouette Mirage\".\"\n\nThe PlayStation release received average reviews according to the review aggregation website Metacritic.\n\n\"IGN\" gave the game a very favourable 8.9/10 praising \"revolutionary new play mechanics and an insane amount of depth\". The broken down ratings for presentation, sound, gameplay and lasting appeal were all 9 or higher, with only graphics being given a 7, but with the note that \"it does push the 2D power of the PS to the max\". \n\n\"GameSpot\"'s review concluded that the game was poor with a rating of 4.6 out of 10. The review focused on the differences between the Saturn release, mentioning the \"inflated weapon cost\" and the mechanic involving draining enemies spirit which they stated was \"the biggest flaw in the game\". They even go as far to recommend importing the original Saturn release because \"a perfectly fun game is now an unrewarding chore overwrought with tedium\".\n\nAs with the review from \"GameSpot\", many reviewers made comparisons to the original Saturn version, often with a negative view of the changes made for the English-language release on PlayStation.\n\nTreasure re-used the dual attribute damage mechanic of \"Silhouette Mirage\" in their shoot 'em up game \"Ikaruga\" (2001). In \"Ikaruga\", the concept of attributes is known as polarity which manifests as the player's ship being either black or white. Similarly with \"Silhouette Mirage\", damage can only be done to the player or enemies by projectiles of the opposite attribute. While Shyna changes attributes by facing in different directions, the ship in \"Ikaruga\" changes attributes with a button press.\n\n"}
{"id": "2059413", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059413", "title": "Tourism in Turkey", "text": "Tourism in Turkey\n\nTourism in Turkey is focused largely on a variety of historical sites, and on seaside resorts along its Aegean and Mediterranean Sea coasts. Turkey has also become a popular destination for culture, spa, and health care.\n\nAt its height in 2019, Turkey attracted around 51 million foreign tourists, ranking as the 6th most popular tourist destination in the world. The total number fluctuated between around 41 million in 2015, and around 30 million in 2016. However, recovery began in 2017, with the number of foreign visitors increasing to 37.9 million, and in 2018 to 46.1 million visitors\n\nIstanbul is one of the most important tourism spots not only in Turkey but also in the world. There are thousands of hotels and other tourist-oriented industries in the city, catering to both vacationers and visiting professionals. Turkey's largest city and metropolis and a leading global city, Istanbul, has a number of major attractions derived from its historical status as capital of the Byzantine and Ottoman Empires. These include the Sultan Ahmed Mosque (the \"Blue Mosque\"), the Hagia Sophia, the Topkapı Palace, the Basilica Cistern, the Dolmabahçe Palace, the Galata Tower, the Grand Bazaar, the Spice Bazaar, and the Pera Palace Hotel. Istanbul has also recently become one of the biggest shopping centers of the European region by hosting malls and shopping centers, such as Metrocity, Akmerkez and Cevahir Mall, which is the biggest mall in Europe and seventh largest shopping center in the world. Other attractions include sporting events, museums, and cultural events.\n\nIn January 2013, the Turkish government announced that it would build the world's largest airport in Istanbul. The operation has an invested 7-billion euros and was planned to have the first part of a four-part plan completed by 2017.\n\nAs a consequence of the continuous fall in tourism to Turkey in recent years, as of October 2016 in Istanbul's famous bazaar once crowded shopping streets are not as crowded as before, \"the streams of tourists who used to visit the market each day have trickled to a halt.\" The number of foreign tourists visiting Istanbul declined to 9.2 million in 2016, a 26 percent decrease compared to 2015.\n\nBeach vacations and Blue Cruises, particularly for Turkish delights and visitors from Western Europe, are also central to the Turkish tourism industry. Most beach resorts are located along the southwestern and southern coast, called the Turkish Riviera, especially along the Mediterranean coast near Antalya. Antalya is also accepted as the tourism capital of Turkey. Major resort towns include Bodrum, Fethiye, Marmaris, Kuşadası, Çeşme, Didim and Alanya. Also Turkey has been chosen second in the world in 2015 with its 436 blue-flagged beaches, according to the Chamber of Shipping.\n\nLots of cultural attractions elsewhere in the country include the sites of Ephesus, Troy, Pergamon, House of the Virgin Mary, Pamukkale, Hierapolis, Trabzon (where one of the oldest monasteries is the Sümela Monastery), Konya (where the poet Rumi had spent most of his life), Didyma, Church of Antioch, ancient pontic capital and king rock tombs with its acropolis in Amasya, religious places in Mardin (such as Deyrülzafarân Monastery), and the ruined cities and landscapes of Cappadocia.\n\nDiyarbakır is also an important historic city, although tourism is on a relatively small level due to waning armed conflicts.\n\nAnkara has an historic old town, and although it is not exactly a tourist city, is usually a stop for travelers who go to Cappadocia. The city enjoys an excellent cultural life too, and has several museums. The Anıtkabir is also in Ankara. It is the mausoleum of Atatürk, the founder of the Republic of Turkey.\n\nGallipoli and Anzac Cove – a small cove on the Gallipoli peninsula, which became known as the site of World War I landing of the ANZAC (Australian and New Zealand Army Corps) on 25 April 1915. Following the landing at Anzac Cove, the beach became the main base for the Australian and New Zealand troops for the eight months of the Gallipoli campaign.\n\nForeign tourist arrivals increased substantially in Turkey between 2000 and 2005, from 8 million to 25 million, which made Turkey a top-10 destination in the world for foreign visitors. 2005 revenues were billion which also made Turkey one of the top-10 biggest revenue owners in the world. In 2011, Turkey ranked as the 6th most popular tourist destination in the world and 4th in Europe, according to UNWTO World Tourism barometer. See World Tourism rankings. At its height in 2014, Turkey attracted around 42 million foreign tourists, still ranking as the 6th most popular tourist destination in the world. From 2015, tourism to Turkey entered a steep decline. In 2016, only around 30 million people visited Turkey. 2016 is described as the second year of huge losses on both visitor numbers and income, a \"year of devastating losses\", with Turkish tourism businesses stating that they \"cannot remember a worse time in the sector\". The number of foreign visitors started recovering in 2017 with 37.9 million visitors being recorded. The recovery was partly due to intense security campaigns and advertising. The number of Russian tourists increased by 444% after the recovery of bilateral relations, resulting in Russia becoming the top tourism market for Turkey once again. Increases were also recorded in the British, Dutch and Belgian markets.\n\nIn early 2017, the Turkish government urged Turkish citizens living abroad to take their vacations in Turkey, attempting to revive the struggling tourism sector of an economy that went into contraction from late 2016. After the April 2017 constitutional referendum, another sharp drop in tourist bookings from Germany was recorded. In 2018, however, the German Tourism Industry Association recorded a growth in German tourist bookings for Turkey, with a 70% increase being recorded by the TUI Group alone.\n\nMost tourist arrivals in Turkey are from the following countries of nationality\n\nDuring the 1990s, the PKK tried to damage the Turkish tourism industry by bombing hotels. Kidnappings of foreign tourists were also reported in this period. An academic article published in 2011 in the British peer-reviewed economics journal Applied Economics, suggested there is strong econometric evidence that attacks by the PKK have had a negative impact on Turkish tourism.\n\nDue to the recent flare in Turkey- PKK conflict, nine countries, among them Russia and Germany, have issued travel advisories. Seven other countries, New Zealand, Australia, Italy, the United Kingdom, Ireland, Poland and Canada, discouraged their citizens to visit the eastern part of Turkey. Some countries have also issued advisories concerning public transportation within metropolitan cities throughout Turkey. Germany and Russia have discouraged their citizens to visit places near the border.\n\nFollowing an ISIL attack, the British Foreign Office highlighted a heightened threat of attacks but did not advise against travel to Turkey, as the vast majority of Turkey remained \"perfectly safe\" to visit. On 3 September 2015, due to the recent violence concerning the Turkey-Islamic State conflict, the United States State Department released an advisory about the ongoing violence in Turkey. In the advisory, the State Department notes that militants have conducted attacks on U.S. interests in the country and that there's a potential for recurring violence. On 9 April 2016, due to additional \"credible threats\" of violence, the United States released a warning for its citizens to refrain from visiting popular tourist areas such as Antalya and Istanbul.\n\nIn the aftermath of the 2016 Turkish coup d'état attempt on 15 July, the United States State Department prohibited U.S. airline carriers from flying to or from Turkey. The U.S. Embassy in Turkey stated that the security at Istanbul's Atatürk airport is \"significantly diminished\" and the State Department advised U.S. citizens to reconsider travel to Turkey, and warned of threats of terrorism. The prohibition was revoked and the flights recommenced on 18 July.\n\nThe reason for the fall in tourism is attributed to a general increase in political violence, political tension with Russia, and terrorist attacks, and to the bad image that the increasingly authoritarian policies of Recep Tayyip Erdoğan have given to Turkey. As by Faruk Şen, head of the Turkish European Foundation for Education and Scientific Studies: \"German tourists are not afraid of bombs; if fewer German tourists are now coming to Turkey, that is because of the country’s image. In Germany, if you say “I’m going to Turkey, this is now perceived meaning ‘I’m going to a dictator’s country.’”\"\n\nAfter months of detention of journalists and political activists including foreigners in Turkey, the government of Germany in July 2017 issued a travel warning to its citizens. It was also reported that Turkish president Recep Tayyip Erdogan had offered to release detained German citizens of Turkish descent in exchange for delivery of Turks who had been granted political asylum in Germany.\n\nThe AKP government has been promoting \"halal tourism\" for years, politically reaffirming this stance over the course of 2016. In March 2017, a Turkish court banned global travel fare aggregator website Booking.com from offering services to Turkish tourists for lack of a national licence, while the Hoteliers Association of Turkey campaigns for a lifting the ban of the enterprise on which its members relied for up to 90 percent of their turnover.\n\nIn April 2017, the police department of the prime resort city of Antalya issued a directive banning the consumption of alcohol outside of buildings.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2059416", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059416", "title": "Rapelje, Montana", "text": "Rapelje, Montana\n\nRapelje is an unincorporated community in northern Stillwater County, Montana. Rapelje was named for J. M. Rapelje, general manager and vice president of the Northern Pacific Railway. Rapelje had a population of approximately 110 people as of the 2000 census. Rapelje is located 24 miles north of Columbus, Montana on Montana Secondary Highway 306.\n\nRapelje was originally called Lake Basin due to its geographical landscape, but in 1913 it was named after J.M. Rapelje, who was one of the heads of the Northern Pacific Railroad. Rapelje was first established as a town where local railroad workers of the Northern Pacific Railway would live in the late 1800s. As more people began to work at the railroad, the town grew bigger in both size and population. They had multiple establishments such as a hotel, a grocery store, \na town hall, a K-12 school, and many other things. A post office was established in 1913, and the four grain towers (which are still there today) were put in business. A railroad destination point, Rapelje developed into a reasonable town with a number of grain elevators, its own school district, an evangelical church, a cafe, and later a violin shop and clothing business. In 1980, the railroad was taken out of Rapelje, and the population declined, as well as sales and business. Businesses and residents of Rapelje largely dispersed from the town over the following decades. The hotel burned down, the town hall was removed, and the grocery store was closed. However, some people stuck around and tried their hardest to keep the little town running. They relied on agriculture to keep the town alive, as well as the school and the sports they provided.\n\nThe 24 Hours of Rapelje is a USA Cycling sanctioned endurance mountain bike race held on the weekend in June closest to the summer solstice. The race is coordinated by the local volunteers.\n\nAccording to the Köppen Climate Classification system, Rapelje has a semi-arid climate, abbreviated \"BSk\" on climate maps.\n"}
{"id": "2059422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059422", "title": "Bad Harzburg", "text": "Bad Harzburg\n\nBad Harzburg (Eastphalian: \"Bad Harzborch\") is a spa town in central Germany, in the Goslar district of Lower Saxony. It lies on the northern edge of the Harz mountains and is a recognised saltwater spa and climatic health resort.\n\nBad Harzburg is situated at the northern foot of the Harz mountain range on the edge of the Harz National Park. To the east of the borough is the boundary between the states of Lower Saxony and Saxony-Anhalt, the former Inner German Border. The small \"Radau\" river, a tributary to the Oker, has its source in the Harz mountains and flows through the town. Nearby are the towns of Goslar to the west, Vienenburg to the north, Braunlage to the south and Ilsenburg and Osterwieck in the east.\n\nThe districts within the borough of Bad Harzburg, with their population in brackets, are:\n\nClimatically Bad Harzburg is a transition zone to a pure alpine region with a pronounced local climate.\n\nAccording to legend, about 780 AD the Emperor Charlemagne, after the conquest of the area in the course of the Saxon Wars, had a chapel built on the \"Burgberg\" a hill overlooking the town. It may have stood on the site of a sacred grove dedicated to a Saxon god named \"Krodo\", whose statue Charlemagne had overthrown.\n\nKing Conrad I of Germany is believed to have established a college of canons here in 916, in order to strengthen his rule in the Duchy of Saxony under Henry the Fowler. King Henry III had it transferred to his \"Kaiserpfalz\" in Goslar in 1039. Still on bad terms with the Saxons, his son and successor Henry IV between 1065 and 1068 had a sizable castle, the \"Harzburg\", built on the \"Burgberg\" to control the region, where he was besieged in 1073 by the forces of Duke Otto of Nordheim during the Great Saxon Revolt. Henry managed to escape from the castle, which after the Peace of Gerstungen was badly damaged by its attackers. Emperor Frederick Barbarossa had it rebuilt after he had defeated his rival, the Saxon duke Henry the Lion in 1180. Henry's son Otto IV, crowned Holy Roman Emperor in 1209, died at the castle on 19 May 1218.\nArchaeological findings of a first, later abandoned, settlement beneath the castle called \"Schulenrode\" (Old Saxon for \"hidden (cf. skulk) clearing\") date back to the 10th century. Another locality nearby named \"Hartesborch\" was first mentioned in a 1314 deed by the Benedictine abbey of Ilsenburg. The present-day town itself, then called \"Neustadt\" (\"new town\"), was first documented in 1338.\n\nFrom 1488 on, the \"Harzburg\" with its surrounding estates was part of the Principality of Brunswick-Wolfenbüttel, though spatially separated from the residence of the prince at Wolfenbüttel by the neighbouring Prince-Bishoprics of Hildesheim and Halberstadt. About 1569, Duke Julius of Brunswick promoted the development of a saline water well to extract salt. The well was called \"Juliushall\" and since 1852 the brine has been used for saline baths as well as other medical purposes.\n\nIn 1892 the townspeople changed the town's name from \"Neustadt\" to \"Harzburg\". It was given the title \"Bad\" (German for \"bath\", i. e. spa), received town privileges in 1894 and has since become an important spa town and tourist attraction.\n\nThe election results for the Nazi Party in the Bad Harzburg district had been below-average so far. \nThe Harzburg Front of a united \"national opposition\" against the German government of Heinrich Brüning was initiated by Alfred Hugenberg, the national-conservative German National People's Party (DNVP), the leadership of the Nazi Party (NSDAP), \"Der Stahlhelm\" first World War ex-servicemens' organisation and the \"Alldeutscher Verband\" pressure group and constituted on 11 October 1931. Both the People's and Nazi parties participated in the government of the Free State of Brunswick from 1930, with the leading Nazi politician Dietrich Klagges as Minister of the Interior from September 1931.\n\nDuring World War II, military hospitals were established in several hotels. The town surrendered without a fight to the 83rd US Infantry Division on 11 April 1945.\n\nAfter the war, Bad Harzburg with the lands of Brunswick belonged to the British zone of Allied-occupied Germany and from 1949 was part of West Germany. Before reunification, its railway station was the eastern terminus of a major railway route just west of the inner German border.\n\nThe modern community of Bad Harzburg was founded on Juli 1, 1972, as the communities of Bad Harzburg, Bettingerode, Bündheim-Schlewecke, Harlingerode, and Westerode were merged. The city was then incorporated into the Landkreis Goslar in 1974.\n\nOn January 1, 2019, the B 6 in Bad Harzburg was upgraded to the autobahn A 369.\n\nAs of 30 June 2018 there were 21,917 inhabitants in Bad Harzburg.\n\n\n2011 local elections:\n\nMayor (\"Bürgermeister\") Ralf Abrahms (Greens) was elected in a two-round system on 22 September 2002 with 53.8% of the votes. Abrahms is the first Green mayor in Lower Saxony. \n\nBad Harzburg is twinned with:\n\nThe Bundesstraße 4 federal highway runs through Bad Harzburg, connecting the town with the A 395 motorway to Brunswick in the north and with Nordhausen and Erfurt in the south. In the east-west direction the B 6 federal road leads to the A 14 motorway at Bernburg and to Hanover.\n\nRail services are provided at Bad Harzburg station by RegionalExpress and RegionalBahn trains of the Deutsche Bahn running to Hanover, Brunswick, Holzminden and Halle.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2059425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059425", "title": "Sainikpuri", "text": "Sainikpuri\n\nSainikpuri is a residential neighbourhood in the northeastern part of Hyderabad City. It is falls under of Kapra mandal of Medchal-Malkajgiri District. It is currently administered under GHMC East Zone. It started as a co-operative housing society venture for retired army personnel, but now has houses which belong to other defence services as well as civilians. Late Brig M. K Rao and Late Brig S.N.Docca (former commandant of EME School now (MCEME) and Late Lt. Col. Tiwari Singh were the first few to have got plots in the society and had a vision that the colony would grow into an elite area. The College of Defence Management (CDM), which is a premier establishment of the Indian Army, is located near Sainikpuri, Ammuguda. The area is well planned and maintained. There is an abundance of lush greenery. Roads are well laid and numbered. Now considered a posh area, old buildings are slowly giving way to multi-storied apartments, and it is now beyond the reach of middle-class to acquire living space in this area.\n\nIt is a part of Neredmet village, then it became Sainikpuri Colony. The name of the place is derived from the original residents who were sainiks, meaning soldiers, and puri meaning place. Sainikpuri started as a co-operative housing society venture in 1960 for retired army personnel. But now it has houses which belong to other defence services as well as civilians.\n\nThere is a common auditorium / mess which offers a variety of services for the residents of Sainikpuri. These services include a gymnasium, a basketball court, a badminton court, a library, a community hall as well as get-togethers in the form of festival melas and the occasional game of tambola. Strolling by the sides of Kapra Lake, a lake close by, is another favourite pastime of the denizens of Sainikpuri. There is an abundance of ground water and greenery. The colony is very clean and the temperature is lower than most of the city because of its lush greenery. The housing plots originally allotted to the members of the Sainikpuri co-operative society were of the size of 700–1,000 square yards each. Owing to this reason, most residents of the colony enjoy the luxury of growing large lawns and beautiful gardens with a variety of flowering and fruiting trees, while others have the privilege to enjoy the beauty of its picturesque avenues. Most serving and retired members of armed forces residing in Sainikpuri are also the members of another club, the R.S.I.Club at Bolarum. This R.S.I.Club is strictly for the armed forces personnel, their families and their guests, and strict dress-code and manners are enforced. Movie-screenings and Tambola are held on Saturdays in the R.S.I. Club, Alwal, which also frequently organizes cultural events and welfare activities for the families of the officers.\n\nCulturally Sainikpuri is Pan-Indian due to its Armed Forces origins, and has been home to people from almost every major culture of India. When Sainikpuri was established, it was removed from the rest of the Hyderabad-Secunderabad axis by at least 10 kilometers. In course of time, it slowly developed a cultural character of its own, that of a conglomerate of upper-middle-class families of diverse ethnic origins. Amongst the Hindu shrines of Sainikpuri are the Shirdi Saibaba Temple located near Sainikpuri Post-office in Saipuri colony and Sri Venkateshwara Temple at the Eshwaripuri Colony standing on the encroached part of the Kapra Lake. There is also the famous a Laxmi Narayan or the \"Shiva-Vishnu\" Temple close to the common auditorium of Sainikpuri. On its northern fringe, theiris a Christian shrine of Our Lady of Vailankanni near Sainikpuri. There is a mosque in the Defence Colony area. The Nalla Pochamma (or Goddess Kali) Temple is in the Ambedkar Nagar area, and was founded, developed and maintained for almost 30 years by one Shri Maddela Hanumantha Rao who belongs to the place. Scores of devotees offer prayers at this shrine, especially on the annual festival known as 'Bonalu'. The former Chief of Army Staff and Governor of Jammu & Kashmir, General K.V. Krishna Rao, and several other retired senior officers of the Indian Army and the Indian Air force, besides those of the Civil Services, are amongst the distinguished residents of Sainikpuri. There are also veterans of private sector, such as Sri Nimmagadda Prasad, or the \"Matrix Prasad\" as he is popularly known for the reason that he is the force behind the Matrix Laboratories, who add colour to the cultural landscape of Sainikpuri. On the other hand, the area is not a preferred residential locality for the software professionals, Gachibowli, Hitech City, Miyapur and Kondapur, the traditional software areas of Hyderabad, being far away. It was in the Eshwarpuri Colony near Sainikpuri that the Telugu movie, \"Dana Veera Sura Karna,\" considered to be an evergreen classic amongst Telugu movies starring Sri N.T. Rama Rao, was filmed.\n\nSainikpuri initially had four blocks - A, B, C and D. In early 1980s additional area was added to Sainikpuri and it became the E block. Neredmet Vayupuri is another residential area established and developed on the same lines along with Sainikpuri. Other residential colonies have come up to the north of Sainikpuri. Madhavpuri, Classic Enclave, Dr. Ambedkar Nagar Colony, Lakshmipuri, Osmania Teachers Colony, Saibaba Officers Colony, Bhasker Rao Nagar (especially 40/1), Eshwaripuri colony, H M T Bearings Officer's Colony, Suryanagar Colony, Kalyan Gardens, Mahalakshmipuri (Excise) Colony, Shaili Gardens, Manik Sai Enclave, Tulsi Gardens, Maruthi Gardens, Sylvan Greens, Yapral residential area etc., are a few to name. Defence colony is another well established organized residential area adjoining Sainikpuri, and is as old as Sainikpuri. New eateries have developed like the Leo's Food Court, the 5th Avenue Bakery (probably the most popular hangout spot for most youngsters in the area), and a snack-bar called \"Cakes & Coffee\" located at the Eshwaripuri Colony. In the vicinity of the Defence Colony is another popular hangout for the youth, \"Coffee & Books,\" which combines a restaurant with a library. There are restaurants, bars, movie-theatres and shopping complexes of all hues on the main road that leads from Sainikpuri to ECIL. So are cyber-cafes, currency exchange centres and other amenities. Super-speciality hospitals such as Paulomi Hospital, Apollo Hospital and Raghavendra Hospital can be accessed easily, besides several other clinics and dispensaries, including pet-clinics. Convenient stores such as Spencer's, Heritage and MORE, have their outlets in Sainikpuri. To buy garden-fresh vegetables and fruits, one can visit the \"Alwal Santha\" that happens every Monday on the double-road (known as High Tension Road) near the Eshwaripuri Colony. Airtel Broadband has its presence in most of the areas of Sainikpuri, apart from the ubiquitous BSNL. Most of these neighbourhoods are served by the Sainikpuri Post Office. Until the late 1980s, a police outpost manned by usually two constables served Sainikpuri, Vayupuri and the Defence colony, with the main police station at Kushaiguda. The police establishment continues to be rudimentary to this day, albeit with more frequent mobile patrolling. The law & order scenario though is surprisingly good, thanks to Sainikpuri's disciplined residents, though isolated incidents of drug-pedalling and chain-snatching were reported from the extension areas. Clement Cheema, the Nigerian drug-peddler who was alleged to have had links with several Tollywood actors and actresses, was arrested by the police in 2010 from a Sainikpuri extension area. These extension areas are popular amongst students from African countries visiting Hyderabad, and the enterprising ones amongst them have even started a restaurant, \"Africa,\" on the way to Indus International School, which dishes out African recipes. Municipal administration of Sainikpuri falls under the purview of the Neredmet village Vayupuri and Defence Colony comes under Neredmet Village the Malkajgiri Municipality.\n\nBhavan's Sri RamaKrishna Vidyalaya, also known as Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan, Sainikpuri, is on the periphery of Sainikpuri, and many students from Sainikpuri and its extension areas study in this school. The school also has a state of the art cricket training academy, and has produced couple of national level cricketers. Another elite educational institution, Bhavan's Vivekananda College, which is also a part of the Bhavan's group of institutions, is located in close proximity to Sainikpuri, providing high quality graduate and postgraduate level education to students. The Bhavan's Ramakrishna Vidyalaya, initially just Ramakrishna Vidyalaya, a residential school being managed by the Ramakrishna Math along with the Sarada Devi Hospital on the A. S. Rao Nagar Main Road, was later handed over to the Bhavan's group. Some of its founder members were Late Brig. M. K. Rao and Late Lt. Col. Tiwari. Distinguished retired members of the armed forces continue to serve on the board and council of the Bhavan's Sri Ramakrishna Vidyalaya in various capacities.\n\nThe Indus International School is another well known, elite educational establishment nearby. The school is known for its excellent sporting facilities including a full length swimming pool which is open to outsiders on membership basis. Also close are the Kendriya Vidyalaya, Bolarum, and the Army Public School.\n\nThere are also several tutoring centers for students of higher classes often run by the school faculty members and many similar private junior colleges which provide similar education. Apart from this, Sainikpuri is a hub for other disciplinary activities as well which include classical dance and music, classical instrument training and such.\n\nThere are many fitness clubs and health clubs around Sainikpuri. Carnival Club, which is a star-rated luxury club located inside the gated community of Tulsi Garden, includes a gym. The other facilities of Carnival Club include mini-theatre, banquet halls, convention centre, a swimming-pool, an open-air screen, and a bar & restaurant. Latheef's Gym, skies fitness center, Kaizen's Gym, Star Gym, Turnhalle Gym and Michael's Gym are some other popular fitness centres. The KR Club is another health club cum sports centre located near the Vayupuri Bus Stop on Vayupuri Main Road.\n\nFiliko Books is one of the major book lending libraries in this neighbourhood and boasts 5000+ books catering for all groups. More books are added every month. There are comics, fiction, non-fiction, self-help, travel and so on which can be read at leisure and return. It is also possible to loan a number of popular magazines. The library is open on all days of a week with an exception on Tuesdays.\n\nThere is the Meenakshi Shankar Music School at Vivekanandapuram, Sainikpuri for those seeking to learn Indian Classical Music. Semitone Music Academy and Symphony Music School cater to those who wish to learn Western Music, mainly guitar and musical keyboard. Freelance music teachers who come home and teach are also available in the area. Anuva Aquariums of Bhaskar Rao Nagar, Sainikpuri is one amongst the biggest dealers of aquariums and related accessories. Ocean World, and Mollies 'N' More, are the other aquarium sellers in the area. They also maintain aquariums for the corporate houses and large residences. Laxmi Kennels of Jyothinagar, Sainikpuri is a popular Kennel in the neighborhood. There are also kennels in the vicinity that offer lodging and boarding facilities to pet-dogs when the owners are away.\n\nKapra Lake, or the Kapra Pedda Cheruvu as it was originally recorded in the Revenue Department's records (Longitude :- 78° 33' 30\", Latitude :- 17° 30' 00\") is a restored tank with a recorded spread of 112 acres and 7 Guntas (44.87 hectares). It spreads roughly north–south on the eastern phalanx of Sainikpuri. A decade back this lake was deemed pristine and pollution free. It is however now marked as polluted and susceptible to encroachments by the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation, thanks to the growing industrialization in the vicinity and dumping of garbage from the nearby residential colonies. A part of the Kapra Lake stands encroached for the past few years, and the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation recently listed 25 structures as encroachments of the Karpra Lake liable for demolition, including Sri Venkateshwara Temple. Sill Level (SL) of the sluice of the Kapra Lake stands recorded as +547.873 Meters, Full Tank Level (FTL) as +550.854 Meters, Maximum Water Level (MWL) as +551.614 Meters, and its Tank Bund Level (TBL) as +553.584 Meters. Length of its bund is measured at 1254 Meters. As of now, out of the original 50 FTL pillars fixed by the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation and the Hyderabad Lake Management Circle of the Irrigation Department, 13 pillars stand disturbed and removed by the encroachers. Efforts are underway to re-fix the missing pillars in order to prevent further encroachments. There are two feeder channels, two sluices, and two surplus courses for the Kapra Lake, this lake being part of a chain of water bodies, wherein the surplus course of the upper water body flows down into the lower water body. Thus, the Kapra Lake is intimately linked in the chain to the Banda Cheruvu of Malkajgiri, the Annanarayan Cheruvu of Nagaram, and the Yadi Bai Gunta of Yellareddy Guda. As a part of the citizens' initiative to protect the Kapra Lake, a rudimentary Lake Protection Body has been formed. But it has largely remained ineffective due to the muscle power of the encroachers and increasing political interference. The SL, FTL, MWL and TBL of the Kapra Lake were measured, and fixed under the ANDHRA PRADESH WATER, LAND AND TREES ACT – 2002 in the year 2005. Attempts were made by some encroachers to get the officially recorded levels altered in the garb of \"re-constructing the bund and the sluices\" (on the inner side of the existing bund and the sluices, thus shrinking the lake), but were thwarted by the vigilant citizen-activists.\n\n"}
{"id": "2059427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059427", "title": "Ruskin Colony", "text": "Ruskin Colony\n\nThe Ruskin Colony (or Ruskin Commonwealth Association) was a utopian socialist colony which existed near Tennessee City in Dickson County, Tennessee from 1894 to 1896. The colony moved to a slightly more permanent second settlement on an old farm five miles north from 1896 to 1899, and saw another brief incarnation near Waycross, in southern Georgia, from 1899 until it finally dissolved in 1901. Its regional location within the Southern United States set it apart from many other similar utopian projects of the era. At its high point, the population was around 250. The colony was named after John Ruskin, the English socialist writer. A cave on the colony's second property in Dickson County still carries his name. The site of the colony's second settlement in Dickson County is listed on the National Register of Historic Places.\n\nThe Ruskin Colony was founded by Julius Augustus Wayland (1854-1912), a newspaper editor and socialist from Indiana. The roots of the Ruskin project can be found in the movement within American socialism at the time towards the creation of new model colonies which would, in theory, challenge the American industrial system by creating ethical alternatives built in rural settings. The idea that new settlements such as Ruskin would eventually bring forth a revolution referred to as the \"co-operative commonwealth\" stood in contrast to socialists who believed that it was more important to do political and social organizing within the cities, the centers of industry. According to W. Fitzhugh Brundage in the book \"A Socialist Utopia in the New South\": \"The wastefulness and ugliness of competitive individualism, so glaringly apparent in late nineteenth-century cities, would be replaced by the efficient creation and collective control of wealth and technology\" in this new settlement.\n\nBy requiring that all members of the colony become equal shareholders in the endeavor, Wayland constructed Ruskin so that it operated more as a legally-sanctioned corporation. Every colonist was then, in essence, a stockholder. The colony, with its elected board of directors, was to run much like any other company, except that it would \"do all things necessary to make a success, financially and socially, of a co-operative colony.\" (\"The Coming Nation\", Feb. 3, 1894) Ruskin colonists manufactured and marketed pants, \"cereal coffee,\" a vapor bath cabinet, chewing gum, belts and suspenders. The system of work itself changed little from that of the world outside Ruskin in terms of hours devoted to the various industries, however the hours, schedules and rates of pay, and industries selected were all determined by the workers. Ruskinites eventually abolished cash wages and adopted a system of scrip which was used in exchange for goods within the colony. In securing their economic dependence, members of the settlement also gave ample time to creative crafts, theater, and other intellectual pursuits. At one time late in the history of the colony, there even existed a band which toured southern Georgia.\n\nMany of the products created in Ruskin were intended to supplement the income from the newspaper, \"The Coming Nation\", which was the primary source of financial stability. The majority of the colony's money and time was put into the paper, which had at its peak in 1896 around 60,000 subscribers. Besides being the chief flow of assets, the paper also gave voice to the men and women of the colony throughout its many editors. Although Julius Wayland almost single-handedly founded the colony, he left in 1895 due to conflicts about ownership of the newspaper that ran counter to his claims of collective ownership. Under Alfred S. Edwards, who succeeded Wayland, \"The Coming Nation\" included articles from the likes of George D. Herron, Charlotte Perkins Gilman, and Herbert Casson (who later took up the editorial reigns after Edwards left the colony).\n\nThe eventual breakup of the Ruskin colony was due to several elements, the most problematic being the unequal distribution of membership rights of colonists complicated by the \"shareholder\"-type initial investment fees. Much of the blame lay with the original charter members, who had become entrenched in leadership and direction of Ruskin. One particular issue which drew ideological divisions through the colony was that of polyamorous relationships, or the practice of \"free love\", within members of the colony. Ruskinites opposed to these beliefs brought harsh criticism down on those who harbored free love sympathies, which were in many ways linked to anarchist currents that had been growing within the colony. This could be traced to Alfred Edward's editorial slant towards anarchism during his time as editor of \"The Coming Nation\".\n\nThe colony eventually became mired in constant litigation over issues of property, with charter members who were now being pushed out of Ruskin seeking to dismantle the group through legal means. The final auction of the Ruskin Colony site at Cave Mills and most of the communal property left the remaining members with only a fraction of what they had spent five years struggling to build. The 240 members moved what they did have, which still included the newspaper and the printing apparatus for it, 613 miles on a chartered train to their new home in Georgia, where they merged with the Duke Colony in Ware County and formed the Ruskin Commonwealth.\n\nHowever, after its first year in Georgia, the number of colonists dropped by half. The new settlement, an old lumber mill, was not surrounded by the fertile land and good sources of water that the previous location had. Ruskinites were plagued with disease, unprofitable business ventures, and a continual slide into poverty that eventually led to the auction of the property by the county sheriff to settle its debts. The Ruskin Commonwealth was effectively disbanded in the autumn of 1901.\n\nThe Ruskin Commongood Society platted Ruskin, Florida on February 19, 1910.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2059431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059431", "title": "Holiday on Ice", "text": "Holiday on Ice\n\nHoliday on Ice is an ice show currently owned by Medusa Music Group GmbH, a subsidiary of CTS EVENTIM, Europe's largest ticket distributor, with its headquarters in Bremen, Germany.\n\nHoliday on Ice originated in the United States in december 1942. It was the brainchild of Emery Gilbert of Toledo, Ohio, an engineer and builder who created a portable ice rink. He took his idea of a traveling show to Morris Chalfen, a Minneapolis executive, who supplied the financing, and George Tyson, who used his theatrical background to create the show.\n\nThe touring show made its first international trip to Mexico in 1947. In 1946, the company expanded with another ice show and secondary unit, \"Ice Vogues\", which took over the Holiday's last season's production and extended it for another year making stops in Cuba and Hawaii. Then the Vogues toured in Central and South America while Holiday remain in North America. After 1956, the Ice Vogues became a second unit of Holiday on Ice. \n\nAfter her touring company was shut down, Sonja Henie joined Holiday on Ice in 1953, remaining part of the show until 1956. Her first performance with the company was in Paris while her final show was in South America.\n\nIn Asia, Holiday on Ice first performed in Manila, the Philippines, in 1954; followed by return visits in 1955. Starting in 1961, the company performed at the newly opened Araneta Coliseum under impresario J. Amado Araneta's auspices. HOI returned to the Araneta Coliseum in 1962, 1963 and 1965. The HOI company that performed in Manila was assembled in Europe and recruited cast members from Japan. \n\nUS was represented by Holiday on Ice at Brussels World Fair in 1958. While in 1959, the new Cultural Exchange Program allowed the company to travel to Russia. A Holiday on Ice show on , was the scene of a gas leak and subsequent explosion at the Indiana State Fairgrounds Coliseum that killed 74 people.\n\nAll owners except Morris Chalfen sold their shares of the North America Holiday on Ice to Madison Square Garden Corporation in 1964, while Chalfen retained ownership of the international Holiday on Ice tour and remained as executive producer of the North America company.\n\nBy , General Ice Shows, Inc., a subsidiary of Thomas Scallen's Medical Investment Corporation (Medicor) and parent company of Ice Follies, had purchased Holiday on Ice (North America) from Chalfen and Madison Square Garden Company. At that time, Chalfen had purchased $2.2 million in Medicor convertible subordinated notes, which when converted to stock would have made Chalfen the largest share of Medicor. Scallen had Medicor stall registering the notes and sold 400,000 Medicor shares to Arthur Wirtz. After lawsuits by HoI's Chalfen and Wirtz in 1976, Wirtz gained ownership of both shows.\n\nMattel's Irvin & Kenneth Feld Productions purchased the Ice Follies and the Holiday on Ice (USA) from Chicago-based Wirtz for $12 million in 1979. Ice Follies merged with Holiday on Ice in 1980 operating as a combined show in 1980 and 1981. The first \"Disney's World on Ice\" began touring in 1981.\n\nIn 1964, Chalfen retained ownership of the international Holiday on Ice tour separating ownership from the North America company.\n\nAfter several changes of ownership, today it primarily tours with only two productions in Europe. In 1996, the company was purchased by Endemol Entertainment.\n\nOn October 2, 2014, the German Medusa Music Group GmbH, a subsidiary of CTS EVENTIM, Europe's largest ticket distributor, acquired 50% of Stage Entertainment Touring Productions and Holiday on Ice; the company would acquire the remaining 50% two years later, on July 8, 2016. Hence, Holiday on Ice has become a German company with Stage Entertainment no longer involved in it.\n\nDuring the 60's Holiday on Ice was introduced to the Philippines. Araneta Coliseum always was the venue until Disney on Ice came to Araneta Coliseum.\n\nHoliday on Ice was established as a family-oriented show by its founders but has retained little of the traditional ice revue format. The actual shows focus more on a theatrical/musical aspect rather than on the glamorous revue style with clouds of feathers and millions of sequins and rhinestones to attract a new, younger audience. The once large \"Corps de Ballet\" of skaters has been reduced from 24 girls + 12 boys to 20 girls + 10 boys (between 1998 and 2008), and 14 girls + 10 boys (from 2009) and elaborate costuming has been replaced in favour of small modern stylings. Also the music choice from mainly Broadway show scores has been changed and adapted to the contemporary taste of actual pop music and even rock. Novelty acts such as acrobats have been added regularly to the main production numbers in recent years.\n\nA traditional element in each Holiday on Ice show is the precision number with its famous spinning wheel, in which the skaters link arms with each other, one by one, lengthening the two spokes which spin around a center point. For many years, the traditional kickline, the light finale with illuminated costumes and the firework fountains at the end of a show were much expected elements as well.\n\nSince 1988 each show has been given an official name to expose its unique identity resulting from its main production theme that weaves the various numbers into a unitary presentation. Beginning in 2005, Holiday on Ice has added several family-oriented touring shows to their schedule, including Peter Pan, Bugs Bunny on Ice and Ali Baba in \"1001 Nights on Ice\" in their new branch Kids Ice shows (\"KISS\").\n\nIn contrast to the North American skating tours Stars on Ice and Champions on Ice which feature primarily World and Olympic champion figure skaters, most of the skaters who tour with Holiday on Ice are not particularly famous, and the focus is on the overall production quality rather than the skaters' competitive credentials.\n\nIn 2011, Stage Entertainment announced the foundation of another subsidiary company which combines all its touring live productions, one of which is Holiday on Ice. This new division, Stage Entertainment Touring productions, is chaired by Caspar Gerwe.\n\nFor the first time in its 69 years, Holiday on Ice did not stage a new show production under its own brand in 2012. \nIn 2013 a new show choreographed by Mark Naylor was produced with the name \"Platinum\".\n\nRobin Cousins has choreographed several of Holiday on Ice's recent shows. Former choreographers have included: Stephanie Andros, Willi Bietak, Marie Carr, Kevin J. Cottam, Francis Demarteau, Sarah Kawahara, Karen Kresge, Jérôme Savary, Ted Shuffle, Anthony Van Laast, Robin Cousins, Frank Wentink, Mark Naylor, Bart Doerfler, Christopher Dean and Kim Gavin.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2059444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059444", "title": "Uman", "text": "Uman\n\nUman (, ; ) is a city located in Cherkasy Oblast (province) in central Ukraine, to the east of Vinnytsia. Located in the historical region of the eastern Podolia, the city rests on the banks of the Umanka River at around . Uman serves as the administrative center of Uman Raion (district), but is designated as a city of oblast significance and does not belong to the raion. Population: \n\nAmong Ukrainians, Uman is known for its depiction of the Haidamak rebellions in Taras Shevchenko's longest of poems, \"Haidamaky\" (\"The Haidamaks\", 1843). The city is also a pilgrimage site for Breslov Hasidic Jews and a major center of gardening research containing the dendrological park Sofiyivka and the University of Gardening.\n\nUman (Humań) was a privately owned city of Poland and the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth.\n\nUman was first mentioned in historical documents in 1616, when it was under Polish rule. It was part of the Bracław Voivodeship of the Lesser Poland Province of the Polish Crown. Its role at this time was as a defensive fort to withstand Tatar raids, containing a prominent Cossack regiment that was stationed within the town. In 1648 it was taken from the Poles by Ivan Hanzha, colonel to Cossack leader Bohdan Khmelnytsky, and Uman was converted to the administrative center of cossack regiment for the region. Poland retook Uman in 1667, after which the town was deserted by many of its residents who fled eastward to Left-bank Ukraine. From 1670–1674, Uman was a residence to the Hetman of right-bank Ukraine.. It was part of Ottoman Empire between 1672 and 1699.\n\nUnder the ownership of the Potocki family of Polish nobles (1726–1832) Uman grew in economic and cultural importance. A Basilian monastery and school were established in this time.\n\nThe Uman region was site of haidamaky uprisings in 1734, 1750, and 1768. Notably during the latter, Cossack rebels Maksym Zalizniak and Ivan Gonta captured Uman during the Koliyivshchyna uprising against Polish rule. During this revolt, a massacre took place against Jews, Poles and Ukrainian Uniates. On the very first day large numbers of Ukrainians deserted the ranks of Polish forces and joined the rebels when the city was surrounded. Thousands from the surrounding areas fled to the Cossack garrison in Uman for protection. The military commander of Uman, Mladanovich, betrayed the city's Jews and allowed the pursuing Cossacks in, in exchange for clemency towards the Polish population. In the span of three days an estimated 20,000 Poles and Jews were slain with extreme cruelty, according to numerous Polish sources, with one source giving an estimate of 2,000 casualties. Uman's modern coat-of-arms commemorates the event depicting a \"Koliy\" rebel armed with a spear.\n\nWith the 1793 Second Partition of Poland, Uman became part of the Russian Empire and a number of aristocratic residences were built there. In 1795 Uman became a povit/uezd center in Voznesensk Governorate, and in 1797, in Kiev Governorate.\n\nInto the 20th century, Uman was linked by rail to Kiev and Odessa, leading to rapid development of its industrial sector. Its population grew from 10,100 in 1860 to 29,900 in 1900 and over 50,000 in 1914. According to the Russian census of 1897, Uman with a population of 31,016 was the second largest city of Podolia after Kamianets-Podilskyi.\n\nIn 1941, the Battle of Uman took place in the vicinity of the town, where the German army encircled Soviet positions. Adolf Hitler and Benito Mussolini visited Uman in 1941.\n\nUman was occupied by German forces from August 1, 1941 to March 10, 1944.\n\nIn January 1989 the population was 90,596 people.\n\nToday the city has optical and farm-machinery plants, a cannery, a brewery, a vitamin factory, a sewing factory, a footwear factory, and other industrial enterprises. Its highest educational institutions are the Uman National University of Horticulture and the Uman State Pedagogical University. The main architectural monuments are the catacombs of the old fortress, the Basilian monastery (1764), the city hall (1780–2), the Dormition Roman Catholic church in the Classicist style (1826), and 19th-century trading stalls.\nUman's landmark is a famous park complex, Sofiyivka (Софiївка; Polish: Zofiówka), founded in 1796 by Count Stanisław Szczęsny Potocki, a Polish noble, who named it for his wife Sofia. The park features a number of waterfalls and narrow, arching stone bridges crossing the streams and scenic ravines.\n\nA large Jewish community lived in Uman in the 18th and 19th centuries. During the Second World War, in 1941, the Battle of Uman took place in the vicinity of the town, where the German army encircled Soviet positions. The Germans deported the entire Jewish community, murdering some 17,000 Jews, and completely destroyed the Jewish cemetery, burial place of the victims of the 1768 uprising as well as Rebbe Nachman of Breslov. (After the war, a Breslov Hasid managed to locate the Rebbe's grave and preserved it when the Soviets turned the entire area into a housing project.)\nSince the 1990s there has been a small, but growing, Jewish population in Uman, concentrated around Rebbe Nachman of Breslov tomb in Pushkina street. The local Jews are mostly involved in pilgrimage of Jewish tourists that arrive to the town.\nIn 2018 the community saw large growth with about 10-20 families coming from Israel, accompanied by a small movement of young American couples. Newcomers to the city are concentrating around Skhidna St, with some toward Nova Uman area.\nIn conjunction with this growth in the community, a new school of Yiddish was established. If current trends continue, there will continue to be improvement of the Jewish community in Uman.\n\nEvery Rosh Hashana, there is a major pilgrimage by tens of thousands of Hasidim and others from around the world to the burial site of Rebbe Nachman of Breslov, located on the former site of the Jewish cemetery in a rebuilt synagogue. Rebbe Nachman Me'Uman spent the last five months of his life in Uman, and specifically requested to be buried there. As believed by the Breslov Hassidim, before his death he solemnly promised to intercede on behalf of anyone who would come to pray on his grave on Rosh Hashana, \"be he the worst of sinners\"; thus, a pilgrimage to this grave provides the best chance of getting unscathed through the stern judgement which, according to Jewish faith, Hashem passes on everybody on Yom Kippur.\n\nThe Rosh Hashana pilgrimage dates back to 1811, when the Rebbe's foremost disciple, Nathan of Breslov, organized the first such pilgrimage on the Rosh Hashana after the Rebbe's death. The annual pilgrimage attracted hundreds of Hasidim from Ukraine, Belarus, Lithuania and Poland throughout the 19th and early 20th centuries, until the Bolshevik Revolution of 1917 sealed the border between Russia and Poland. A handful of Soviet Hasidim continued to make the pilgrimage clandestinely; some were discovered by the KGB and exiled to Siberia, where they died. The pilgrimage ceased during World War II and resumed on a drastically smaller scale in 1948. From the 1960s until the fall of Communism in 1989, several hundred American and Israeli Hasidim made their way to Uman, both legally and illegally, to pray at the grave of Rebbe Nachman. In 1988, the Soviets allowed 250 men to visit the Rebbe's grave for Rosh Hashana; the following year, over 1,000 Hasidim gathered in Uman for Rosh Hashana 1989. In 1990, 2,000 Hasidim attended. In 2008, attendance reached 25,000 men and boys. In 2018, over 30,000 Jews made the Rosh Hashanah pilgrimage to Uman.\n\nToday Israeli Hassidim, from many sectors of Israel's Ultra-Orthodox community, including many Mizrahi Jewish rabbis, make the pilgrimage. The event brings together a wide variety of Orthodox society, from Yemenite yeshiva students, to former Israeli prison inmates, and American hippies.\n\nThe annual pilgrimage is regarded as Uman's main economic industry.\n\nThe pilgrimage has drawn protests from residents due to the large influx of visitors from Israel, and the consequent strain on security and utility. Common complaints from residents relate to the loud noise, singing, rowdiness, widespread drinking, drug use and fighting the pilgrims cause.\n\nProblems have been reported on the flights with pilgrims smoking cannabis and chanting over the airport PA system. One Israeli tourist said of the flights: \"All sorts of people fly to Uman... Some of them arrive drunk or on drugs, embarrassing the rest of us. The local (Uman) police doesn't interfere, because the believers who visit bring in a lot of money.\" An El Al pilot described his flight to Ukraine: \"The flight attendants also detected the smell of marijuana on board, together with a large number of passengers drank hard liquor out of personal bottles\".\n\nOn September 10, 2010, several cases of violence and riots broke out among Hasidic pilgrims after members of the Jewish Evangelical Church arrived from Odessa to preach their faith, leading to 10 Hasidic pilgrims being deported.\n\nHeavy alcoholic drinking and cannabis smoking is prevalent amongst the pilgrims, many of them young men, with some describing it as a party event. Hippies have been seen taking LSD on the pilgrimage. Dancing in the streets to trance music is common and the event has been likened to the burning man festival.\n\nIn clashes with locals, cases of Hippies provoking riots occurred. In one instance, pilgrims staying in a residential tower began tossing rocks and bottles from above onto a car, and when at one point a local policeman's hat was knocked off, police with German Shepherds were called to scatter the crowd. \nOn September 13, 2010, ten Hasidic pilgrims were deported back to Israel and banned from Ukraine for five years for disrupting public order and causing bodily harm to citizens. Three more were also under investigation. Later, on September 26, 2010, an Israeli Hasid was stabbed and killed in an altercation that broke out following the vandalism of a car owned by Jews. In pursuing the vandals, who allegedly were retaliating for the recent stabbing and wounding of a local Ukrainian by an Israeli, the man was stabbed and his brother injured.\n\nAn Israeli police officer sent to the proceedings to monitor security commented, explaining that “people get drunk and act crazy in the streets, go out to pubs and hit on women and harass them. They do all types of things that they would never do in Israel, but they come out here and feel like they can do it.”\n\nOn September 25, 2011, a protest rally of about 100 people was held by the nationalist All-Ukrainian Union \"Svoboda\" to demand 'stricter legal and sanitary controls on pilgrims' and better regulation of Hasidim pilgrims in the interest of risks to local security and health.\n\nOn September 8, 2013, three Israeli police officers were deported after getting involved in a bar brawl during the Rosh Hashanah gathering in Uman. In September 2014, a statement issued by the association of Breslov rabbis called on women to cease visiting the gravesite because the presence of women could detract from the sacredness of prayers said by male worshippers. According to the statement the increasing presence of women has created a \"huge spiritual interruption.\" Others defend their position stating that the enormous volume of male worshippers would mitigate the possibility of proper separation of the genders. They say that this separation is necessary to stay focused on the sacred mission of the pilgrimage.\n\nIn the 2014 pilgrimage, organizers were fined $15,000 by the city of Uman for illegally operating a \"tent city\" to house 2,500 pilgrims.\n\nThe controversy is the subject of the 2015 documentary film, \"The Dybbuk. A Tale of Wandering Souls\".\n\nUman is twinned with:\n\n\n Uman in the Encyclopedia of Ukraine\n"}
{"id": "2059448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059448", "title": "List of set theory topics", "text": "List of set theory topics\n\nThis page is a list of articles related to set theory.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2059450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059450", "title": "Slam City Jam", "text": "Slam City Jam\n\nSlam City Jam, the North American Skateboard Championships, was scheduled to return to Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada in May 2008, but it has been postponed to May 2009 for unknown reasons. Debuted in Vancouver in 1994, Slam City Jam is the longest-running skateboarding event in North America and is among the best in the world. The three-day event captures the vibrant music and lifestyle of skate culture and features pre-eminent athletes and musicians. The Pacific Coliseum on the Pacific National Exhibition fairgrounds is throwing open its doors to welcome back the three-day festival of skateboarding, lifestyle and music. It has appeared as a playable level in the video games \"Tony Hawk's Underground\" and \"Grind Session\".\n\nIn 2006 Slam City Jam took place in Calgary, Alberta instead of Vancouver because the Pacific Coliseum was being renovated for the 2010 Winter Olympics. In Calgary the event was held in the Stampede Corral. Slam City Jam has been postponed until 2010.\n\nSlam City Jam is in the process of developing a new international advisory board composed of pro skaters, media & industry stakeholders who will be working with organizers to rebuild Slam City Jam.\n\nMen's Vert\n\nMen's Street\nWomen's Vert\nWomen's Street\n"}
{"id": "2059456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059456", "title": "Urgent Care Association", "text": "Urgent Care Association\n\nThe Urgent Care Association (UCA) is a membership organization founded in 2004 and headquartered in Warrenville, IL, United States, which represents professionals working in urgent care centers in the United States and internationally.\n\nThe UCA offers educational and professional development resources including live webinars, convention recordings, and self-paced learning content through its online education portal, in addition to providing resources for starting a new urgent care center, provision of clinical care in the urgent care setting, and running a successful urgent care practice.\n\nThe UCA also holds two annual educational events, the Urgent Care Convention and Expo and the Fall Urgent Care Fall Conference. Additionally, the UCA conducts every two years a survey and publishes the findings in a report on emerging trends in the urgent care industry.\n\nUCA publishes the \"Journal of Urgent Care Medicine\" in conjunction with Braveheart Publishing. The journal features columns on medical coding, legal aspects of urgent care, and occupational medicine matters. It also contains UCA updates and reviews of the literature related to urgent care medicine.\n\nIn 2009, the UCA established the Certified Urgent Care (CUC) designation, providing national criteria for urgent care centers and setting standards for hours of operation, staffing, and services patients can expect. The CUC is intended to help patients, payers and other interested parties identify true full-service urgent care centers.\n\n"}
{"id": "2059462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059462", "title": "Apollo Smile", "text": "Apollo Smile\n\nPaula Anne Scharf-Daily (born February 16, 1967 in Guilford, Connecticut), better known by her stage name Apollo Smile, is a pop music singer-songwriter, voice actress and media personality. In the 1990s, Smile billed herself as \"The Live Action Anime Girl\" and was invited to several science fiction conventions as a guest.\nPaula Scharf was born with a twisted hip tendon, leading her mother to enroll her in physical activity at the age of 3 to treat it. Thus from early childhood a trained dancer and gymnast, once she graduated Guilford High School in 1985, she went to study at the University of the Arts (Philadelphia) and then the Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater in New York City. While introducing herself to a college student in New York he misheard Paula as \"Apollo\", and went on to say that it fit her despite being a male name as the Greek god Apollo \"represents music, dance, light, and poetry\", so she went with it. The latter part of her name came as a producer suggested an equally different surname, exploiting Scharf's oft-complimented smile. She legally changed her name to Apollo Smile in 1991.\n\nAn injury made Scharf opt to seek a singing career, working with producer Freddie \"Groove Commander\" Richmond. After contributing the song \"Let's Rock\" for A&M Records' soundtrack for the 1989 film \"Lost Angels\", once a Los Angeles friend of Richmond visited his studio, she was impressed with the songs he was working with Smile, and smuggled a tape of theirs to a Geffen Records executive. Soon the A&R man went to New York to court Smile, and four months later she had signed with DGC Records. In 1990, Smile's song \"Thunderbox\" was featured on the soundtrack album for the Tom Cruise film \"Days of Thunder\", and the following year she released a self-titled album, from which came the track . However, afterwards Smile was dropped along with most of DGC's signees.\n\nBy the mid-90s, Smile was attending conventions of anime, a lifelong fandom of hers. This led to her 1996 reinvention herself as the \"Live Action Anime Girl\", wearing skin-tight spandex clothing, with her blonde hair in pigtails tied off with pink bows. Her appearances usually showcased music concerts featuring her original upbeat music and demonstrations of her martial arts abilities. Soon she got to work as an anime voice actress, and was called by the Sci-Fi Channel to host Anime Week in the summer of 1998. Other projects included a self-published comic book featuring herself as the central character, and the voice of Ulala in the \"Space Channel 5\" video game series. \n\nIn 2001, Smile was doing stunt work and voice acting and wished to return to music, and joined Virginia-based \"Atari rock\" band Rockbot. Smile recorded one EP with Rockbot before leaving in 2003, while continuing her stunt and acting work. As Smile's mother became ill in 2006, she returned to her hometown to tend for her. The move brought Smile's career in dance and choreography back into focus. She got a job as a dance teacher at New Haven Ballet, as well as dancing schools in Killingworth and Guilford, and choreographed various high school dances ever since. Smile was also inspired by her father with Parkinson's disease to develop a routine of dancing exercises for elders with movement-impairing illnesses such as Parkinson's and arthritis. \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2059463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059463", "title": "Wolmirstedt", "text": "Wolmirstedt\n\nWolmirstedt is a town in the Börde district in Saxony-Anhalt, Germany. It is located 14 km north of Magdeburg, on the river Ohre.\n\n\nWolmirstedt was until 1994 district town of the Wolmirstedt District. In this year the districts Haldensleben and Wolmirstedt were united to form the Ohrekreis, with the seat of district administration in Haldensleben. In 2007, the Ohrekreis was merged with the Bördekreis district to form the Börde district.\n\n\nIn Wolmirstedt there is a large substation for 380kV. On the area of this transformer an HVDC back-to-back station with a transmission rate of 600 megawatts was planned, but this plan was canceled after the German reunification in 1990, because it was decided to synchronize electricity mains of East and West Germany. The 380kV line running from the transformer station Wolmirstedt to the shut-down nuclear power station Lubmin is the longest power line in Germany.\n\n"}
{"id": "2059464", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059464", "title": "Oulton Wade, Baron Wade of Chorlton", "text": "Oulton Wade, Baron Wade of Chorlton\n\nWilliam Oulton Wade, Baron Wade of Chorlton, (24 December 1932 – 7 June 2018) was a British politician, businessman and agriculturalist. \n\nWade was educated at Birkenhead School and the Queen's University of Belfast. He was an elected member of Cheshire County Council between 1973–77, and then Joint Treasurer of the Conservative Party from 1982–90. \n\nHaving been awarded a Knighthood in the 1982 Birthday Honours, which was conferred by The Queen on 14 December 1982, Wade was elevated to the House of Lords being created a life peer on 16 May 1990 with the title Baron Wade of Chorlton, of Chester in the County of Cheshire. He sat as a Conservative in the House until his retirement on 1 November 2016.\n\nOn 9 November 2007, he became an Honorary Graduand of the University of Chester where he was presented for admission to the degree of Doctor of Letters, honoris causa.\n\nIn the Lords, he served as a Member of the Science and Technology Select Committee, and later as Chairman of the House of Lords Science and Technology Report ‘Chips for Everything’. He was Chair of the English Cheese Export Council from 1982 to 1984, and was President of the Combined Heat and Power Association. He became a Freeman of the City of London in 1980. \n\nWade died on 7 June 2018, at the age of 85.\n\n"}
{"id": "2059468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059468", "title": "Biological soil crust", "text": "Biological soil crust\n\nBiological soil crusts are communities of living organisms on the soil surface in arid and semi-arid ecosystems. They are found throughout the world with varying species composition and cover depending on topography, soil characteristics, climate, plant community, microhabitats, and disturbance regimes. Biological soil crusts perform important ecological roles including carbon fixation, nitrogen fixation and soil stabilization; they alter soil albedo and water relations and affect germination and nutrient levels in vascular plants. They can be damaged by fire, recreational activity, grazing and other disturbances and can require long time periods to recover composition and function. Biological soil crusts are also known as \"cryptogamic\", \"microbiotic\", \"microphytic\", or \"cryptobiotic\" soils.\n\nBiological soil crusts are most often composed of fungi, lichens, cyanobacteria, bryophytes, and algae in varying proportions. These organisms live in intimate association in the uppermost few millimeters of the soil surface, and are the biological basis for the formation of soil crusts.\n\nCyanobacteria\n\nCyanobacteria are the main photosynthetic component of biological soil crusts, in addition to other photosynthetic taxa such as mosses, lichens, and green algae. The most common cyanobacteria found in soil crusts belong to large filamentous species such as those in the genus \"Microcoleus\". These species form bundled filaments that are surrounded by a gelatinous sheath of polysaccharides. These filaments bind soil particles throughout the uppermost soil layers, forming a 3-D net-like structure that holds the soil together in a crust. Other common cyanobacteria species are as those in the genus \"Nostoc\", which can also form sheaths and sheets of filaments that stabilize the soil. Some \"Nostoc\" species are also able to fix atmospheric nitrogen gas into bio-available forms such as ammonia.\n\nBryophytes\n\nBryophytes in soil crusts include mosses and liverworts. Mosses are usually classified as short annual mosses or tall perennial mosses. Liverworts can be flat and ribbon-like or leafy. They can reproduce by spore formation or by asexual fragmentation, and photosynthesize to fix carbon from the atmosphere.\n\nLichens\n\nLichens are often distinguished by growth form and by their photosymbiont. Crust lichens include crustose and areolate lichens that are appressed to the soil substrate, squamulose lichens with scale- or plate-like bodies that are raised above the soils, and foliose lichens with more \"leafy\" structures that can be attached to the soil at only one portion. Lichens with algal symbionts can fix atmospheric carbon, while lichens with cyanobacterial symbionts can fix nitrogen as well. Lichens produce many pigments that help protect them from radiation.\n\nFungi\n\nMicrofungi in biological soil crusts can occur as free-living species, or in symbiosis with algae in lichens. Free-living microfungi often function as decomposers, and contribute to soil microbial biomass. Many microfungi in biological soil crusts have adapted to the intense light conditions by evolving the ability to produce melanin, and are called black fungi or black yeasts. Fungal hyphae can bind soil particles together.\n\nFree-living green algae\n\nGreen algae in soil crusts are present just below the soil surface where they are partially protected from UV radiation. They become inactive when dry and reactivate when moistened. They can photosynthesize to fix carbon from the atmosphere.\n\nBiological soil crusts are formed in open spaces between vascular plants. Frequently, single-celled organisms such as cyanobacteria or spores of free-living fungi colonize bare ground first. Once filaments have stabilized the soil, lichens and mosses can colonize. Appressed lichens are generally earlier colonizers or persist in more stressful conditions, while more three-dimensional lichens require long disturbance-free growth periods and more moderate conditions.\nRecovery following disturbance varies. Cyanobacteria cover can recover by propagules blowing in from adjacent undisturbed areas rapidly after disturbance. Total recovery of cover and composition occurs more rapidly in fine soil textured, moister environments (~2 years) and more slowly (>3800 years) in coarse soil textured, dry environments. Recovery times also depend on disturbance regime, site, and availability of propagules.\n\nBiological soil crusts are found on almost all soil types, but are more commonly found in arid regions of the world where plant cover is low and plants are more widely spaced. This is because crust organisms have a limited ability to grow upwards and cannot compete for light with vascular plants. Across the globe, biological soil crusts can be found on all continents including Antarctica.\n\nThe species composition and physical appearance of biological soil crusts vary depending on the climate, soil, and disturbance conditions. For example, biological soil crusts are more dominated by green algae on more acidic and less salty soils, whereas cyanobacteria are more favored on alkaline and haline soils. Within a climate zone, the abundance of lichens and mosses in biological soil crusts generally increases with increasing clay and silt content and decreasing sand. Also, habitats that are more moist generally support more lichens and mosses.\n\nThe morphology of biological soil crust surfaces can range from smooth and a few millimeters in thickness to pinnacles up to 15 cm high. Smooth biological soil crusts occur in hot deserts where the soil does not freeze, and consist mostly of cyanobacteria, algae, and fungi. Thicker and rougher crusts occur in areas where higher precipitation results in increased cover of lichen and mosses, and frost heaving of these surfaces cause microtopography such as rolling hills and steep pinnacles. Due to the intense UV radiation present in areas where biological soil crusts occur, biological soil crusts appear darker than the crustless soil in the same area due to the UV-protective pigmentation of cyanobacteria and other crust organisms.\n\nCarbon cycling\nBiological soil crusts contribute to the carbon cycle through respiration and photosynthesis of crust microorganisms which are active only when wet. Respiration can begin in as little as 3 minutes after wetting whereas photosynthesis reaches full activity after 30 minutes. Some groups have different responses to high water content, with some lichens showing decreased photosynthesis when water content was greater than 60% whereas green algae showed little response to high water content. Photosynthesis rates are also dependent on temperature, with rates increasing up to approximately .\n\nEstimates for annual carbon inputs range from 0.4 to 37 g/cm*year depending on successional state. Estimates of total net carbon uptake by crusts globally are ~3.9 Pg/year (2.1-7.4 Pg/year).\n\nNitrogen cycling\nBiological soil crust contributions to the nitrogen cycle varies by crust composition because only cyanobacteria and cyanolichens fix nitrogen. Nitrogen fixation requires energy from photosynthesis products, and thus increase with temperature given sufficient moisture. Nitrogen fixed by crusts has been shown to leak into surrounding substrate and can be taken up by plants, bacteria, and fungi. \nNitrogen fixation has been recorded at rates of 0.7–100 kg/ha*year, from hot deserts in Australia to cold deserts. Estimates of total biological nitrogen fixation are ~ 49 Tg/year (27-99 Tg/year).\n\nSoil stability\n\nSoils in arid regions are slow-forming and easily eroded. Crust organisms contribute to increased soil stability where they occur. Cyanobacteria have filamentous growth forms that bind soil particles together, and hyphae of fungi and rhizines/rhizoids of lichens and mosses also have similar effects. The increased surface roughness of crusted areas compared to bare soil further improves resistance to wind and water erosion. Aggregates of soil formed by crust organisms also increase soil aeration and provide surfaces where nutrient transformation can occur.\n\nSoil water relations\n\nThe effect of biological soil crusts on water infiltration and soil moisture depends on the dominant crust organisms, soil characteristics, and climate. In areas where biological soil crusts produce rough surface microtopography, water is detained longer on the soil surface and this increases water infiltration. However, in warm deserts where biological soil crusts are smooth and flat, infiltration rates can be decreased by bioclogging.\n\nAlbedo\n\nThe darkened surfaces of biological soil crusts decreases soil albedo (a measure of the amount of light reflected off of the surface) compared to nearby soils, which increases the energy absorbed by the soil surface. Soils with well-developed biological soil crusts can be over 12 °C (22 °F) warmer than adjacent surfaces. Increased soil temperatures are associated with increased metabolic processes such as photosynthesis and nitrogen fixation, as well as higher soil water evaporation rates and delayed seedling germination and establishment. The activity levels of many arthropods and small mammals are also controlled by soil surface temperature.\n\nDust-trapping\n\nThe increased surface roughness associated with biological soil crusts increase the capture of dust. These Aeolian deposits of dust are often enriched in plant-essential nutrients, and thus increase both the fertility and the water holding capacity of soils.\n\nGermination and establishment\n\nThe presence of biological soil crust cover can differentially inhibit or facilitate plant seed catchment and germination. The increased micro-topography generally increases the probability that plant seeds will be caught on the soil surface and not blown away. Differences in water infiltration and soil moisture also contribute to differential germination depending on the plant species. It has been shown that while some native desert plant species have seeds with self-burial mechanisms can establish readily in crusted areas, many exotic invasive plants do not. Therefore, the presence of biological soil crusts may slow the establishment of invasive plant species such as cheatgrass (\"Bromus tectorum\").\n\nNutrient levels\n\nBiological soil crusts do not compete with vascular plants for nutrients, but rather have been shown to increase nutrient levels in plant tissues, which results in higher biomass for plants that grow near biological soil crusts. This can occur through N fixation by cyanobacteria in the crusts, increased trapment of nutrient-rich dust, as well as increased concentrations of micronutrients that are able to chelate to the negatively charged clay particles bound by cyanobacterial filaments.\n\nThe increased nutrient status of plant tissue in areas where biological soil crusts occur can directly benefit herbivore species in the community. Microarthropod populations also increase with more developed crusts due to increased microhabitats produced by the crust microtopography.\n\nBiological soil crusts are extremely susceptible to disturbance from human activities. Compressional and shear forces can disrupt biological soil crusts especially when they are dry, leaving them to be blown or washed away. Thus, animal hoof impact, human footsteps, off-road vehicles, and tank treads can remove crusts and these disturbances have occurred over large areas globally. Once biological soil crusts are disrupted, wind and water can move sediments onto adjacent intact crusts, burying them and preventing photosynthesis of non-motile organisms such as mosses, lichens, green algae, and small cyanobacteria, and of motile cyanobacteria when the soil remains dry. This kills remaining intact crust and causes large areas of loss.\n\nInvasive species introduced by humans can also affect biological soil crusts. Invasive annual grasses can occupy areas once occupied by crusts and allow fire to travel between large plants, whereas previously it would have just jumped from plant to plant and not directly affected the crusts.\n\nClimate change affects biological soil crusts by altering the timing and magnitude of precipitation events and temperature. Because crusts are only active when wet, some of these new conditions may reduce the amount of time when conditions are favorable for activity. Biological soil crusts require stored carbon when reactivating after being dry. If they do not have enough moisture to photosynthesize to make up for the carbon used, they can gradually deplete carbon stocks and die. Reduced carbon fixation also leads to decreased nitrogen fixation rates because crust organisms do not have sufficient energy for this energy-intensive process. Without carbon and nitrogen available, they are not able to grow nor repair damaged cells from excess radiation.\n\nRemoval of stressors such as grazing or protection from disturbance are the easiest ways to maintain and improve biological soil crusts. Protection of relic sites that have not been disturbed can serve as reference conditions for restoration.\nThere are several successful methods for stabilizing soil to allow recolonization of crusts including coarse litter application (such as straw) and planting vascular plants, but these are costly and labor-intensive techniques. Spraying polyacrylamide gel has been tried but this has adversely affected photosynthesis and nitrogen fixation of \"Collema\" species and thus is less useful. Other methods such as fertilization and inoculation with material from adjacent sites may enhance crust recovery, but more research is needed to determine the local costs of disturbance.\nToday, direct inoculation of soil native microorganisms, bacteria and cyanobacteria, supposed as a new step, biologic, sustainable, eco-friendly and economically-effective technique to rehabilitate biological soil crust.\n\n"}
{"id": "2059470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059470", "title": "Chlorine pentafluoride", "text": "Chlorine pentafluoride\n\nChlorine pentafluoride is an interhalogen compound with formula ClF. This colourless gas is a strong oxidant that was once a candidate oxidizer for rockets. The molecule adopts a square pyramidal structure with C symmetry, as confirmed by its high-resolution F NMR spectrum.\n\nSome of the earliest research on the preparation was classified. It was first prepared by fluorination of chlorine trifluoride at high temperatures and high pressures:\nNiF catalyzes this reaction.\n\nCertain metal fluorides, MClF (i.e. KClF, RbClF, CsClF), react with F to produce ClF and the corresponding alkali metal fluoride.\n\nIn a highly exothermic reaction, ClF reacts with water to produce chloryl fluoride and hydrogen fluoride:\n\nIt is also a strong fluorinating agent. At room temperature it reacts readily with all elements (including otherwise \"inert\" elements like platinum and gold) except noble gases, nitrogen, oxygen and fluorine.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2059474", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059474", "title": "Greene and Greene", "text": "Greene and Greene\n\nGreene and Greene was an architectural firm established by brothers Charles Sumner Greene (1868–1957) and Henry Mather Greene (January 23, 1870 – October 2, 1954), influential early 20th Century American architects. Active primarily in California, their houses and larger-scale ultimate bungalows are prime exemplars of the American Arts and Crafts Movement.\n\nCharles and Henry Greene were born in Brighton, Ohio, in 1868 and 1870, respectively. They grew up primarily in St. Louis, Missouri, and on their mother's family farm in West Virginia while their father attended medical school.\n\nAs teenagers, the brothers studied at the Manual Training School of Washington University in St. Louis, where they studied metal- and woodworking and graduated in 1887-1888. Their father, a practicing homeopathic physician by this time, was very concerned with the need for sunlight and circulating fresh air; the importance of these elements was to become one of the signatures of the brothers' work.\n\nCharles and Henry each received a \"certificate for completion of partial course,\" a special two-year program at MIT's School of Architecture, in 1891. They studied classical building styles, intending at that time only to gain certification for apprenticeships with architecture and construction firms upon graduation.\n\nAfter MIT in spring 1890, Charles apprenticed first with the firm of Andrews, Jaques and Rantoul; but after four and a half months, moved to the office of R. Clipston Sturgis. By March 1891, he had moved again to work with Herbert Langford Warren; and by the following November, he had changed again to the firm of Winslow and Wetherell. He would stay there until the two brothers departed to join their parents in Pasadena, California. Henry apprenticed first with the firm of Chamberlin & Austin and then briefly went to work with Shepley, Rutan and Coolidge. All the firms the brothers worked for were located in Boston, Mass.\n\nIn 1893 their parents requested that the sons move to Pasadena, where they had moved a year before. The brothers agreed and, while traveling by train from Boston, they stopped at the World's Columbian Exposition in Chicago and saw a few examples of Japanese architecture. This experience made a lasting impression on both of them, according to a late-in-life interview with Henry. There was actually very little Japanese influence upon their work until after Charles visited the 1904 Louisiana Purchase Exposition in St. Louis.\n\nIn 1901 Charles Greene married Alice Gordon White, and they honeymooned in Europe and her native England.\n\nThe architectural firm of Greene and Greene was established in Pasadena in January 1894, eventually culminating with the designs of their \"ultimate bungalows\", such as the 1908 Gamble House in Pasadena, generally considered one of the finest examples of residential architecture in the United States.\n\nTwo other landmark ultimate bungalows were the Robert R. Blacker House in Pasadena and the Thorsen House. Such ultimate bungalows were completely custom affairs, where the vast majority of elements—light fixtures, furniture, even woven textiles—were created for specific spaces in the home.\n\nAfter 1901 the firm began developing the distinctive stylistic elements that finally came together as a cohesive whole in their grand works of 1907-09. The Greenes developed a personal idiom within the Arts and crafts aesthetic, receiving commissions to design furnishings for their houses. Charles' sketches for the 1903 Mary Darling house were published in England in \"Academy Architecture\" the same year, representing the first foreign publication of the firm's work.\n\nIn 1905 the Greenes began an association with Peter Hall as the primary contractor for their major commissions, and from 1907 with his brother John Hall, who ran a millwork shop producing their decorative arts and furniture designs.\n\nThe structure of the Greene & Greene house is essential not only to the immense feeling of security that such an overly-supported structure brings, but also accentuates the importance of the Arts & Crafts fundamentals in the Greene & Greene style. The visual importance of the aesthetic nature of the joints, pegs, and complex wood-work symbolizes the structure of the house, and coincides with the principles taught in the Manual Training School of their youth. The structure of the house is externalized, or exploded, rather than hidden in decoration. Each element of the structure asserts itself. This extravagance of support takes its origins from the elaborate joinery and framing of traditional Japanese architecture.\n\nThe Greenes took on few commercial projects. Their attention to detail would not have been possible in a larger firm, or one that focused on commercial buildings as well as residential. The Greenes repeatedly turned down offers to construct buildings in downtown Los Angeles. The Greene brothers were masters in their area of domestic concentration for which, until the year of 1948, they received little acclaim. In 1948 they received citations from the Pasadena Chapter of the American Institute of Architects and from the national body in 1952 for creating a “new and native architecture.” In 1960, they were among the modern architects included in the book \"Five California Architects\" by Esther McCoy, where the chapter on the Greenes was written by Randall Makinson.\n\nIn 1918, businessman and writer D.L. James commissioned Charles to design a stone house on a bluff he had bought in Carmel Highlands, California overlooking the water. Charles made watercolor sketches and architectural drawings for the house. He supervised the construction of the granite house that took five years to complete. The house was later called \"Seaward\".\n\nThe firm of Greene & Greene was officially dissolved in 1922 after Charles moved his family north to Carmel, California. Henry remained in Pasadena, doing architecture projects on his own. The brothers died in the 1950s.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2059482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059482", "title": "Earl Collins", "text": "Earl Collins\n\nEarl Thompson Collins (September 3, 1895 in Miami, Manitoba – 1958) was a politician in Manitoba, Canada. He served in the Legislative Assembly of Manitoba from 1943 to 1949.\n\nThe son of Christopher Fowler Collins and Susanna Thompson, Collins was educated in Miami, Winnipeg and Toronto. He worked as a farmer, was active in freemasonry, and was the secretary-treasurer of the Rosebank Cooperative, selling oil and supplies. In 1928, Collins married Hazel Viola Campbell.\n\nHe was first elected to the Manitoba legislature in a by-election held on June 22, 1943, in the constituency of Dufferin. At the time of this by-election, Manitoba was governed by a coalition government of Liberal-Progressives, Conservatives and Social Crediters. Collins, a Conservative, was elected by acclamation and sat as a government backbencher.\n\nHe was re-elected in the 1945 provincial election as an independent candidate supporting the coalition. He served as a government backbencher for another four years, and did not seek re-election in 1949.\n\nCollins ran for the legislature again in the 1953 provincial election as a Progressive Conservative, and finished third against Liberal-Progressive candidate Walter McDonald. The coalition had ceased to exist by this time.\n"}
{"id": "2059485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059485", "title": "Chlorine monofluoride", "text": "Chlorine monofluoride\n\nChlorine monofluoride is a volatile interhalogen compound with the chemical formula ClF. It is a colourless gas at room temperature and is stable even at high temperatures. When cooled to −100 °C, ClF condenses as a pale yellow liquid. Many of its properties are intermediate between its parent halogens, Cl and F.\n\nChlorine monofluoride is a versatile fluorinating agent, converting metals and non-metals to their fluorides and releasing Cl in the process. For example, it converts tungsten to tungsten hexafluoride and selenium to selenium tetrafluoride:\n\nClF can also chlorofluorinate compounds, either by addition across a multiple bond or via oxidation. For example, it adds fluorine and chlorine to the carbon of carbon monoxide, yielding carbonyl chloride fluoride:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2059492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059492", "title": "NWA World Women's Championship", "text": "NWA World Women's Championship\n\nThe NWA World Women's Championship is a women's professional wrestling championship created and promoted by the American professional wrestling promotion National Wrestling Alliance (NWA). The title was first won by Mildred Burke in 1935 defeating Clara Mortensen. The championship is currently held by Thunder Rosa, who is in her first reign.\n\nMildred Burke is recognized as the inaugural champion. After her Two out of three falls match against June Byers in 1954 ended in a no contest, Byers was recognized as the NWA World Women's Champion, and Burke created the WWWA World Championship and was recognized as its first champion. Upon June Byers's retirement, it was held primarily (and operated) by Lillian Ellison (under the ring name of The Fabulous Moolah), who first won the championship in a battle royal in September 1956.\n\nIn 1983, the physical belt was sold by Ellison to the World Wrestling Federation (WWF, now WWE), where it became the WWF Women's Championship. The World Wrestling Federation recognized Moolah as the reigning champion but did not recognize any of the title changes that had occurred since Moolah was first awarded the title in 1956. The NWA Women's title continued its lineage after Moolah's belt was purchased and renamed by the WWF.\n\nThe Fabulous Moolah has held the title more times than any other wrestler, with a total of five reigns. She also has the longest reign of 3,651 days, and is the oldest champion after winning the title at 55 years old. Malia Hosaka has the shortest reign at 1 day. La Reina de Corazones is the youngest champion after winning the title at 21 years of age. Overall, the title has been held by 25 different women for a total of 35 reigns.\n\nAs of 17, 2020.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2059497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059497", "title": "City of Blue Mountains", "text": "City of Blue Mountains\n\nThe City of Blue Mountains is a local government area of New South Wales, Australia, governed by the Blue Mountains City Council. The city is located in the Blue Mountains range west of Sydney.\n\nThe Mayor of Blue Mountains City Council is councillor Mark Greenhill, a member of the Labor Party.\n\nThe urban part of the city consists of a ribbon of close or contiguous towns which lie on the Main Western railway line, served by NSW TrainLink's Blue Mountains Line, and Great Western Highway between Emu Plains and Lithgow. About 70% of the city's area is within the Blue Mountains National Park which lies north and south of the ribbon of towns. The National Park is part of the much larger Greater Blue Mountains Area World Heritage Site and the city brands itself as \"The City Within a World Heritage National Park\". The towns and villages are generally grouped into lower, mid, and upper mountains. The economy of the upper mountains is dependent almost entirely on tourism. The road to Sydney, the Great Western Highway, is mostly dual carriageway but is relatively slow due to the urban development and hilly terrain. An electric train service integrates into Sydney Trains, Sydney's suburban rail network.\n\nThe main towns and villages in the City of Blue Mountains are: \n\nBlue Mountains City Council is composed of twelve Councillors elected proportionally as four separate wards, each electing three Councillors. All Councillors are elected for a fixed four-year term of office. The Mayor is elected by the Councillors at the first meeting of the Council. The most recent general election was held on 10 September 2016.\n\nThe City of Blue Mountains Council maintains cemeteries at Blackheath, Faulconbridge, Katoomba, Lawson, Megalong Valley, Mount Irvine, Mount Victoria, Mount Wilson, Springwood, and Wentworth Falls.\n\nBlue Mountains Library operates three full-time branches, three part-time branches and a service for train commuters at Springwood and Katoomba stations two days a week.\n\nBlue Mountains Leisure Centres operate from five locations. All five locations have pools and the Katoomba and Springwood locations have gyms and offer various fitness classes.\n\nThe City of Blue Mountains has a number of heritage-listed sites, including the following sites listed on the New South Wales State Heritage Register:\n\nThe City of Blue Mountains has sister city relationships with the following cities:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2059498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059498", "title": "Novodevichy Convent", "text": "Novodevichy Convent\n\nNovodevichy Convent, also known as Bogoroditse-Smolensky Monastery (), is probably the best-known cloister of Moscow. Its name, sometimes translated as the \"New Maidens' Monastery\", was devised to differ from the Old Maidens' Monastery within the Moscow Kremlin. Unlike other Moscow cloisters, it has remained virtually intact since the 17th century. In 2004, it was proclaimed a UNESCO World Heritage Site.\n\nThe Convent is situated in the south-western part of the historic town of Moscow. The Convent territory is enclosed within walls and surrounded by a park, which forms the buffer zone. The park is limited by the urban fabric of the city on the north and east sides. On the west side, it is limited by the Moscow River, and on the south side there is an urban freeway. The buildings are surrounded by a high masonry wall with 12 towers. The entrances are from the north (town side) and the south. The layout of the convent territory is an irregular rectangle stretching from the west to east.\n\nThe oldest structure in the convent is the six-pillared five-domed Smolensky Cathedral, dedicated to the icon \"Our Lady of Smolensk\". It is situated in the centre of the axes between the two entrance gates. Extant documents date its construction to 1524–1525; yet its lofty ground floor, magisterial proportions, and projecting central gable are typical of monastery cathedrals built at the behest of Ivan the Terrible. Most scholars agree that the cathedral was rebuilt in the 1550s or 1560s. It was formerly ringed by four smaller chapels, in an arrangement reminiscent of the Cathedral of the Annunciation in the Kremlin. Its frescos are among the finest in Moscow.\nThe cathedral may be a focal point of the convent, but there are many other churches. Most date from the 1680s, when the convent was thoroughly renovated at the behest of the regent Sofia Alexeyevna, who was later incarcerated there. The blood-red walls and crown-towers, two lofty over-the-gates churches, a refectory, and residential quarters were all designed in the Muscovite Baroque style, supposedly by a certain Peter Potapov. In the old cathedral, a new bowl for holy water and gilded carved iconostasis were installed in 1685. Its four tiers contain 16th-century icons endowed by Boris Godunov; the fifth tier displays icons by leading 17th-century painters, Simeon Ushakov and Fyodor Zubov.\n\nAn arresting slender belltower, also commissioned by tsarevna Sofia, was built in six tiers to a height of , making it the tallest structure in 18th-century Moscow (after the Ivan the Great Bell Tower in the Kremlin). This light octagonal column seems to unite all major elements of the ensemble into one harmonious whole.\n\nVasili III, the Grand Prince of Moscow, founded the Novodevichy Convent in 1524 in commemoration of his conquest of Smolensk in 1514. The structure began as a fortress at a curve of the Moskva River three versts to the south-west of the Moscow Kremlin. It became an important part of the southern defensive belt of Moscow, which had already included a number of other monasteries. Upon its founding, the Novodevichy Convent was granted 3,000 rubles and the villages of Akhabinevo and Troparevo. Vasili's son, tsar Ivan the Terrible (reigned 1533–1584), would later grant a number of other villages to the convent.\n\nThe Novodevichy Convent housed many ladies from the Russian royal families and boyar clans who had been forced to take the veil, such as Ivan the Terrible's daughter-in-law Yelena Sheremeteva (in residence 1581–1587), Feodor I's wife Irina Godunova (in residence 1598–1603; she was there with her brother Boris Godunov until he became a ruler himself), Sofia Alekseyevna (Peter the Great's half-sister; in residence 1689–1704), Eudoxia Lopukhina (Peter the Great's first wife, in residence 1727–1731), and others. In 1610–1611 a Polish unit under the command of Aleksander Gosiewski captured the Novodevichy Convent. Once Russian forces had retaken the convent, tsar Mikhail Fyodorovich supplied it with permanent guards (100 Streltsy in 1616, 350 soldiers in 1618). By the end of the 17th century, the Novodevichy Convent possessed 36 villages (164,215 desyatinas of land) in 27 uyezds of Russia. In 1744, it owned 14,489 peasants.\n\nIn the mid-17th century, nuns from other monasteries in the Ukrainian and Belarusian lands were transferred to Novodevichy Convent, the first of whom was named Yelena Dyevochkina. In 1721, some of the aged nuns, who renounced the Old Believers movement, were given shelter. In 1724, the convent also housed a military hospital for the soldiers and officers of the Imperial Russian Army and an orphanage for female foundlings. By 1763, the convent housed 84 nuns, 35 lay sisters, and 78 sick patients and servants. Each year, the state provided the Novodevichy Convent with 1,500 rubles, 1,300 quarters of bread, and 680 rubles and 480 quarters of bread for more than 250 abandoned children.\n\nIn 1812, Napoleon's army made an attempt to blow up the convent, but the nuns managed to save the cloister from destruction. In Tolstoy's \"War and Peace\", Pierre was to be executed under the convent walls. In another novel of his, \"Anna Karenina\", Konstantin Lyovin (a main character) meets his future wife Kitty ice-skating near the monastery walls. Indeed, the Maiden's Field (as a meadow in front of the convent came to be known) was the most popular skating-rink in 19th-century Moscow. Tolstoy himself enjoyed skating here when he lived nearby, in the district of Khamovniki.\n\nIn 1871, the Filatyev brothers donated money for a shelter-school for the orphans of \"ignoble origins\". Also, the convent housed two almshouses for nuns and lay sisters. In early 1900s, the Cathedral was surveyed and restored by architect and preservationist Ivan Mashkov. By 1917, there were 51 nuns and 53 lay sisters residing in the Novodevichy Convent.\n\nIn 1922, the Bolsheviks closed down the Novodevichy Convent (the cathedral was the last to be closed, in 1929) and turned it into the Museum of Women's Emancipation. By 1926, the monastery had been transformed into a history and art museum. In 1934, it became affiliated with the State Historical Museum. Most of its facilities were turned into apartments, which spared the convent from destruction.\n\nIn 1943, when Stalin started to make advances to the Russian Orthodox Church during World War II, he sanctioned opening the Moscow Theological Courses at the convent. Next year the program was transformed and became the Moscow Theological Institute. In 1945, the Soviets returned Assumption Cathedral to the believers. The residence of the Metropolitan of Krutitsy and Kolomna has been located in the Novodevichy Convent since 1980.\n\nIn 1994, nuns returned to the convent, which is currently under the authority of the Metropolitan of Krutitsy and Kolomna. Some of the churches and other monastic buildings are still affiliated with the State Historical Museum. In 1995, religious services resumed in the convent on patron saint's days.\n\nIn 2004, the Novodevichy Convent was proclaimed a UNESCO World Heritage Site. In the UNESCO team evaluation, it was affirmed that the convent is the most outstanding example of the so-called \"Moscow Baroque\". Apart from its fine architecture and decorative details, the site is characterised by its town-planning values. The team also pointed out that the convent is an outstanding example of an exceptionally well preserved monastic complex, and that it integrates the political and cultural nature of the existing World Heritage site of Moscow Kremlin. Moreover, the convent is itself closely related to Russian Orthodoxy and the Russian history of the 16th and 17th centuries.\n\nOn March 15, 2015, a fire engulfed the convent's tallest bell tower, which pinnacles at height of 72 meters. The monastery had been undergoing major repair work and was covered in scaffolding. It took firefighters almost three hours to put out the fire. The blaze reportedly affected an area of three hundred square metres, but it was restricted to the scaffolding and didn't do any damage to the historical building itself. The speculated cause of the fire was a short circuit caused by heat guns used for drying the facade. The press service for the Moscow cultural heritage department has blamed the fire on the firm doing the restoration work. However, Russian Deputy Culture Minister Grigory Pirumov said that heat guns were not in use on the territory of the convent and the bell tower had been disconnected from the mains power supply.\n\nThe was initiated already in the 16th century. Like other Moscow monasteries (notably the Danilov and the Donskoy), the Convent was coveted by the Russian nobility as a place of burial. Sergey Solovyov and Alexei Brusilov are only two of the many prominent Muscovites buried within convent walls. The Napoleonic hero Denis Davydov is also buried in the grounds.\n\nIn 1898–1904, the so-called Novodevichy Cemetery was established outside the south wall. Anton Chekhov was one of the first notables to be interred at the new cemetery, and Nikolai Gogol was later reburied there too. During the Soviet epoch, it was turned into the most high-profile cemetery in the Soviet Union, with the likes of Peter Kropotkin, Nikita Khrushchev, Sergei Prokofiev, Dmitri Shostakovich, Konstantin Stanislavski, Boris Yeltsin, and Mstislav Rostropovich being interred there.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2059505", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059505", "title": "Amani Asfour", "text": "Amani Asfour\n\nAmany Asfour is a businessperson from Egypt.\n\nShe holds the titles of:\n\n\nAsfour graduated from Faculty of Medicine - Cairo University and has her Masters Degree and M.D. in pediatrics. She is a lecturer of pediatrics at the National Research Center of Egypt. She joined the private sector when she was a student. Within a few years, she was also able to establish a company for medical equipment, selling more than 30 different brands.\n\nAsfour's interests were not limited to establishing her private business. She realized the importance of creating an organization targeting economic empowerment for women and the promotion of entrepreneurship. She established the Egyptian Businesswomens' Association in 1995 with the objectives of promoting young generations of women entrepreneurs and giving guidance to women business owners of small and medium-size enterprises. Her organization also supports mainstream women in the global market. She directed her efforts toward economic empowerment for women, capacity building, development of human resources, and equal opportunity for girls and women in education, training, and promotion of women and youth in science and technology.\n\nAsfour is active in the African, Arab, and Mediterranean. She founded an association for business and professional women in Egypt and then established The African Alliance for Women Empowerment. The latter focuses on the whole of Africa, targeting female empowerment and promoting economic integration among women and youth entrepreneurs in Africa. Asfour also initiated the Mediterranean Congress for Business and Professional Women as a platform for sharing experiences and good practices among women entrepreneurs in the Mediterranean region.\n\nAsfour has received many awards from Egypt, Africa, the Arab world, and the Islamic world. She has established many partnerships with international and regional organizations, including UN Women, UNDP, ILO, UNIDO, the African Union, the European Union, the Common Market for Eastern and Southern Africa (COMESA), and different Mediterranean chambers of commerce. She was also successful in implementing 2 large projects for establishing the Hatshepsut Business Women Development Center and a regional program for the support of female entrepreneurs in Egypt, Sudan, and Ethiopia.\n"}
{"id": "2059514", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059514", "title": "René-Levasseur Island", "text": "René-Levasseur Island\n\nRené-Levasseur Island is a large island in the centre of Lake Manicouagan in Quebec, Canada. Its highest peak is Mount Babel, at 952 m (3,123 feet), which is contained in the Louis-Babel Ecological Reserve. With a total area of 2,020 km² (and a diameter of 72 km), the island is larger in area than the annular lake in which it is situated. René-Levasseur Island is the world's second largest lake island (the largest is Manitoulin Island in Lake Huron).\n\nThe geological structure was formed by the impact of a meteorite 214 million years ago. The meteorite is believed to have been about 5 km in diameter, and would have hit Earth at a speed of 17 km/s, the fifth most powerful known impact that Earth has seen. The impact of the meteorite formed a crater roughly 100 km in diameter, the centre of which forms the island known today. It became an artificial island when the Manicouagan reservoir was flooded in 1970, merging two crescent-shaped lakes: Mouchalagane Lake on the western side and Manicouagan Lake on the eastern side. It is the largest artificial island in the world.\n\nHydro-Québec's Daniel-Johnson Dam on the Manicouagan River, which created the Manicouagan Reservoir is the world's largest multiple-arch dam.\n\nThe Manicouagan Reservoir and René-Levasseur Island are sometimes called the \"eye of Quebec\".\n\nThe island is currently the subject of an ongoing legal battle, as the Innu First Nation of Betsiamites is taking legal action to protect its indigenous land from logging. The Quebec Court of Appeal made a ruling on April 28, 2006, allowing Kruger Inc. to resume its logging activities.\n\nThe island is also the object of an environmental/ecological campaign lobbying the government of Québec to create a protected area spanning the entire island. The group, SOS Levasseur arose in 2003 partly from the interest that mainstream environmental groups in Québec demonstrated during environmental consultations. All groups recommended that René-Levasseur Island be protected in its entirety. The Island has been proposed as a Canadian National Park, an ecological reserve, a biodiversity reserve and an exceptional geological site. There seems to be an exceptional concentration of old-growth boreal forest stands on the island.\n\nSOS Levasseur has been conducting research expeditions to the Island since January 2005, whose aim is to identify old-growth forest stands and to obtain their protection under the Quebec Forest Law as Exceptional Forest Ecosystems (EFE).\n\nThe Ministry of Natural Resources and Fauna (MRNFQ), along with Kruger Inc. have already Identified 7 EFEs spanning approximately 25 km². SOS Levasseur has submitted an additional 7 surveyed in the summer of 2005 and is expected to submit many more from the 2006 and 2007 expeditions.\n\nThe MRNFQ has yet to recognize the 7 sites proposed by SOS Levasseur.\n"}
{"id": "2059521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059521", "title": "Trash of the Titans", "text": "Trash of the Titans\n\n\"Trash of the Titans\" is the 22nd episode of \"The Simpsons\"<nowiki>'</nowiki> ninth season. The 200th episode of the series overall, it originally aired on the Fox network in the United States on April 26, 1998. The episode, which was written by Ian Maxtone-Graham and directed by Jim Reardon, sees Homer Simpson run for the job of Springfield's Sanitation Commissioner. Steve Martin guest stars as Ray Patterson, the incumbent commissioner, while U2 play themselves after requesting an appearance on the show.\n\nInspired by a friend's experience in politics, Maxtone-Graham decided to have Homer run for Sanitation Commissioner, although one draft of the episode saw him running for mayor. The staff also wanted the episode to be about trash, and created the concept of \"Love Day\" as a means of generating waste. The episode's resolution was discussed extensively by the staff, with one proposed idea being that Springfield would be raised up and the excess rubbish swept underneath it. The episode also features a parody of the song \"The Candy Man\" and an incident involving comedian Redd Foxx.\n\n\"Trash of the Titans\" won an Emmy Award for Outstanding Animated Program (For Programming One Hour or Less), something the staff believe was due to the environmental message at the end. Over 10 years after the original broadcast, an airing of the episode in the United Kingdom courted controversy when it was aired on Channel 4 in April 2008 before the 9pm watershed, with the word \"wanker\" left unedited.\n\nThe episode is dedicated to the memory of Linda McCartney, who appeared alongside her husband Paul in the episode \"Lisa the Vegetarian.\"\n\nA local department store announces the formation of a new August holiday called Love Day intended to boost sales. The Simpsons celebrate it, but the vast amount of packaging it produces causes the garbage to build up. When Homer takes it out, he fails to make it to the curb in time. As the garbage men drive away without collecting his trash, Homer angrily shouts insults at them, causing a fight that leads to the family's garbage service being cut off. Garbage gradually piles up on their front lawn and despite Marge's pleas, Homer refuses to apologize to the garbage men.\n\nHomer awakens one morning to find the pile of trash gone and believes he has beaten City Hall, only to learn that Marge wrote a letter of apology to the Springfield Sanitation Commissioner Ray Patterson, forging Homer's name. Homer sees the commissioner, demanding the letter be returned. Patterson does so and tries to be civil with Homer, but Homer insists he will fight the department and decides to run for Commissioner.\n\nHomer's campaign starts badly with him being beaten up after interrupting U2's PopMart Tour concert, but picks up when he thinks of a slogan: \"Can't someone else do it?\" Homer spreads his message to the town and promises expensive services such as round-the-clock garbage service and sanitation workers doing all possible cleaning, leading to his landslide victory in the election. After being sworn in, he shows his plans by singing a parody of \"The Candy Man\" entitled \"The Garbage Man.\"\n\nHowever, fulfilling these promises proves costly and Mayor Quimby denounces Homer for spending the department's yearly budget in only a month. Homer gets cities all over the United States to pay him to store their excess garbage in an abandoned mine shaft on the outskirts of Springfield. Despite the budget crisis having ended and the workers receiving their salaries as promised, the garbage builds up underground and eventually erupts, pouring trash all over the town. At a town hall meeting, Homer is fired from his post and replaced with Ray Patterson, who declines reinstatement. With no other options left, Quimby moves the entire town five miles down the road. However, Lisa worries that such a drastic move will make no difference if the same lackadaisical attitude towards waste management continues.\n\nThe production team wanted the episode to be about trash, and show runner Mike Scully pitched the idea that Homer should run for office. Writer Ian Maxtone-Graham had a friend who had made their way in Chicago politics, through the Sanitation Commission, and so he decided that Homer should run for Sanitation Commissioner. They then spent a lot of time trying to get to the point that Homer would have an \"over-filled trash can,\" and through its extensive use of packaging, the concept of Love Day was formed. Originally the episode saw Homer running for mayor, but this idea was abandoned. The ending was talked about for a while, with the original idea being that the whole town would be raised up and the rubbish be swept underneath. The ending was not intended to carry an environmental message, but it played well and is what the staff believe won the episode an Emmy.\n\nU2 contacted the show about doing a guest spot, rather than the other way around. The writers immediately wrote them one, in case they changed their minds. They recorded their lines for the episode in October 1997. The band's head of Principal Management Paul McGuinness and Susie Smith, an employee of Principal Management, also make brief appearances in the episode. U2's drummer Larry Mullen, Jr. appears in the episode, although he has no dialogue. Steve Martin guest stars as Ray Patterson.\n\nThe episode marked the first appearance of Costington's department store, whose slogan is \"Over a Century Without a Slogan.\" It took \"a lot of wasted man-hours\" to come up with both the name and slogan.\nThe scene where Ray Patterson is reinstated (to which he enters and exits to the \"Sanford and Son\" theme song) was a reference to a moment that occurred during a stand-up show of comedian Redd Foxx (who starred on \"Sanford and Son\"). During a show in Las Vegas, Redd Foxx came on stage to the \"Sanford and Son\" theme song, only to find that there were very few people in the audience. Foxx angrily stated that he refused to do a show with such a small audience and walked off the stage. The house orchestra, puzzled by Foxx's leaving, simply played him off with the \"Sanford and Son\" theme song again. The same incident was the basis for a joke in \"The Two Mrs. Nahasapeemapetilons,\" where Moe Szyslak walks onto the stage and, without breaking stride, walks off.\n\nIn its original broadcast, \"Trash of the Titans\" finished 16th in ratings for the week of April 20–26, 1998, with a Nielsen rating of 10.5, equivalent to approximately 10.2 million viewing households. It was the highest-rated show on the Fox network that week, beating \"King of the Hill\".\n\nThis episode won the Emmy Award for Outstanding Animated Program (For Programming One Hour or Less) in 1998. Jim Reardon won the Annie Award for \"Outstanding Individual Achievement for Directing in an Animated Television Production\". \n\nThe authors of the book \"I Can't Believe It's a Bigger and Better Updated Unofficial Simpsons Guide\", Warren Martyn and Adrian Wood, said: \"Although not a great episode, this one has a series of high points that keep you amused until the end.\" In a 2006 article in \"USA Today\", \"Trash of the Titans\" was highlighted among the six best episodes of \"The Simpsons\" season nine, along with \"The Joy of Sect,\" \"The Last Temptation of Krust,\" \"The Cartridge Family,\" \"Dumbbell Indemnity,\" and \"Das Bus.\"\n\nDuring Toronto City Council deliberations over the proposal to turn the abandoned Adams Mine in Northern Ontario into a massive dump site for Toronto's garbage, then-councillors Jack Layton and Olivia Chow surprised their council colleagues by playing \"Trash of the Titans.\" \"It was absolutely stunning,\" Layton later told \"The Globe and Mail\". \"It was so accurate to what was going on.\" Layton, who would later become leader of Canada's New Democratic Party and Leader of the Official Opposition, called \"The Simpsons\" \"the single most important influence on progressive social commentary in the world.\"\n\nIn 2016, the episode received a new wave of commentary from observers of the US presidential election, who compared Homer's campaign to that of President Donald Trump. Stephen Sander wrote, \"Homer makes crazy promises, and panders to the lowest common denominator in the citizens of Springfield, telling everyone what they want to hear in order to win. And he does win.\"\n\nIn 2008, the episode caused controversy in the United Kingdom, for use of the word \"wanker.\" The word is first used by Adam Clayton, and later by Mr. Burns, at the end of the episode. While the word is not well known in the United States, where it generally means a self-indulgent person, it is considered offensive in the United Kingdom, where it is a slang term for one who engages in masturbation.\n\nOn April 15, 2008, \"Trash of the Titans\" was broadcast on Channel 4 at 6pm, with both mentions of the word broadcast. Ofcom, which deals with television complaints in the United Kingdom, received 31 complaints from viewers who felt that the episode should not have been shown before the 9pm watershed. Channel 4 said that the error was caused by a member of the compliance staff, who had incorrectly certified the program as suitable to be shown from 6pm. The error was not corrected by the acquisitions department. Ofcom said that while they were \"concerned,\" it would not look into the incident any further because it was \"an isolated incident.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2059523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059523", "title": "Michael Sawchuk", "text": "Michael Sawchuk\n\nMichael M. Sawchuk (1911. near Fork River, Manitoba – September 11, 1969) was a politician in Manitoba, Canada. He served in the Legislative Assembly of Manitoba from 1945 to 1949 as a representative of the Cooperative Commonwealth Federation.\n\nSawchuk was educated at Winnipegosis and Fork River. He graduated from the Dauphin Normal School in 1933, and worked as a teacher. Sawchuk was active in rural youth training, the Red Cross and the Manitoba Teachers' Association.\n\nHe was elected to the Manitoba legislature in the 1945 provincial election, defeating Liberal-Progressive incumbent Nicholas A. Hryhorczuk. by 338 votes in the constituency of Ethelbert. Sawchuk served as an opposition member in the legislature for the next four years, and did not run for re-election in 1949.\n\nIn 1950, he moved to Dauphin, where he worked in automobile sales. Sawchuck later died there at the age of 58.\n"}
{"id": "2059526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059526", "title": "Saida Agrebi", "text": "Saida Agrebi\n\nSaida Agrebi (born January 22, 1945 in Tunisia) is a member of the Economic, Social and Cultural Council of the African Union, representing North Africa. She also sits on the Pan-African Parliament representing Tunisia. She graduated from the University of California, Berkeley with a Masters Degree in Public Health.\n\nAs a student she served as an instructor on reproductive and family health in hospitals in California and Maryland, instructor of public health in Native-American reservations in the state of Arizona, and lecturer on reproductive health in Jamaica.\n\nMs Agrebi joined the Arab Labour Organisation where she served as the Director of the Bureau of the Arab Working Woman until 1987. She was appointed Director of Communication at the National Office for Family and Population, and then promoted to Deputy Director General in which capacity she served until 1995. In 1995 she acted as Deputy Director General of the Office of Tunisians Abroad, before being elected as Deputy in the Chamber of Deputies of Tunisia in 1999.\n\nAs an expert on various topics, including reproductive and public health, women’s rights, civil society and emigration, Ms Agrebi has participated in various UN events. She has also published various articles on women in the work place, Arab women, rural women, and family planning in English, French and Arabic.\n\nIn 2003, after the AWCPD’s successful lobbying to mainstream gender in the AU, Ms Agrebi was one of the five women elected to the AU Commission at the Second General Assembly in Maputo, Mozambique.\n\nBesides being a member of the AWCPD, Ms Agrebi is a member of many other organisations, including the vice-presidency of FEMNET, the vice-presidency of the World Organisation of the Family, membership in Femmes Africa Solidarité, and founding presidency of the International Arab Women’s Forum, the Tunisian Mothers’ Association and the Organisation of Magreb Mothers.\n\nShe has garnered many accolades for her work President Ben Ali of Tunisia presented the latest one.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2059542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059542", "title": "2006 Mexican general election", "text": "2006 Mexican general election\n\nGeneral elections were held in Mexico on Sunday, July 2, 2006.\n\nVoters went to the polls to elect, on the federal level:\n\nSeveral local ballots were also held on the same day, most notably:\n\nDue to controversial events in Mexican politics in the years preceding the election, the negative and aggressive tone of the presidential campaign, the personal interference of president Vicente Fox to favour the candidate of his party Felipe Calderón, and the controversial and close results that gave Calderón a lead of 0.58% of the votes over his rival Andrés Manuel López Obrador (who subsequently refused to recognize the results and claimed that the election had been rigged against him), Mexico went through , as López Obrador called for protests throughout the country and proclaimed himself to be the \"Legitimate President\", while legislators of his party protested the inauguration of Felipe Calderón as President on 1 December. At the same time, the southern state of Oaxaca was marked by severe civil unrest during 2006 after a teachers' strike was violently repressed by Governor Ulises Ruiz Ortiz, which led to protests calling for his resignation; the 2 July elections in many regions of that state were disturbed by the ongoing conflict.\n\nMost analysts agree that Calderón's launch of the Mexican Drug War on 11 December (only ten days after taking office as President) was an extraordinary step to gain popular support and to cement his legitimacy in the aftermath of the convoluted elections and the subsequent crisis.\n\nThere were five registered candidates for the 2006 presidential election:\nA non-registered candidate, Víctor González Torres (nicknamed \"Dr. Simi\" after the mascot of his national drugstore franchise) made a massive marketing campaign to enter the election, in spite of not being registered as an official candidate, and ran as a write-in candidate. His popular slogan was \"The same only cheaper\", but his campaign slogan was \"To serve God and the people of Mexico\". Ironically, he frequently stressed the fact that he paid all of his own campaign expenses, thus being the \"cheapest\" candidate. He was not considered a formal candidate but many press sources still publish his sayings and complaints against IFE, while some sources consider him a sort of \"comic relief\".\n\nOpinion polls in the run-up to the election showed López Obrador and Calderón neck and neck. The last polls conducted before the polling blackout that begins eight days before the election all showed López Obrador and Calderón tied with the results within the margins of error. Both \"Reforma\" and \"El Universal\" newspapers, considered by many to be Mexico City's most influential, gave López Obrador a two-point edge over Calderón.\n\nThe candidates of the smaller parties also gained ground at the expense of Roberto Madrazo and López Obrador. The last poll from \"El Universal\" showed Patricia Mercado of Social Democratic and Farmer Alternative had gained enough support for her party to retain its registry. In the latest Zogby poll, Madrazo, however, trailed the leader Calderón by only 8 points and was only 4 points behind López Obrador.\n\nAveraging the last ten polls conducted before the polling blackout (between 20 June and 23 June), López Obrador edged out Calderón by a razor-thin half percentage point with 35.1%. Calderón had 34.6% and Madrazo came in third with 26%.\n\nAs of January 2005, only three candidates had made a public declaration of assets, liabilities and annual expenses. These figures were given in pesos, the total value of assets of each candidate follows at an exchange rate of 10.62 pesos to one United States dollar (Source: Banamex):\n\nA first presidential debate was held on 25 April 2006 with the presence of all candidates with the notable exception of López Obrador. López Obrador had refused to participate in all debates, and said he would only participate in one since long before the first debate was scheduled. The rest of the candidates agreed on leaving an \"empty chair\" to symbolize that the fifth candidate was indeed invited.\n\nThe \"silla vacía\" (Spanish for \"empty chair\") became the topic of political commentary shows and the press. \"Excélsior\" called the empty chair a \"double-edged sword\" coinciding with other publications and TV shows that leaving the empty chair could be construed as an insult to the audience and an attack to López Obrador. However, by the date of the debates, the statistical tendency in many polls had confirmed Calderón at the second spot and López Obrador still with a single digit advantage over him.\n\nAfter the first debate some political commentators, media outlets, and polls indicated that Calderón was seen as the winner of the debate, Mercado as the pleasant surprise of the night. and a nervous Madrazo as the worst performer of the night. However, political analysts also said that the debate was unnecessarily full of promises and personal attacks. Analysts considered that López Obrador was negatively affected by his absence and polls later confirmed Calderón having replaced López Obrador as the leading candidate.\n\nA second debate took place on 6 June of the same year, from 20:30 to 22:30, Central Time, with the confirmed presence of all candidates, including López Obrador. Media outlets have given results to telephone polls applied post-debate showing a mixed tendency. Most, like \"Reforma\" and \"Presente\", gave Felipe Calderón the lead, but a few, like \"Diario Monitor\", gave it to Andrés Manuel López Obrador.\n\nHowever, the rise of López Obrador in voter preference polls since the debate seems to indicate that it was the PRD candidate who won it. One of the main causes for this victory may have been the Hildebrando accusation that López Obrador made during the debate.\n\nBefore the debate, Carlos Ahumada's wife threatened to release tapes involving allies of López Obrador in suspected acts of corruption, but the release was cancelled due to an attempted murder which is still under investigation. (See: Videoscandals).\n\nVictor González Torres, a national pharmacy entrepreneur nicknamed \"Dr. Simi\", declared himself a non-registered write-in candidate and tried to enter the building where the debate was to take place. González Torres demanded to be allowed participation in the debate, but he was not allowed to enter the building where he made the demand. He even brought his own chair. Candidates with no political parties are not permitted to compete in elections under Mexican law, and votes for all write-in candidates are counted together, regardless of which write-in candidate the vote was cast.\n\nOn September 5, 2006, Felipe Calderón Hinojosa was declared President-Elect by the Federal Electoral Tribunal after a highly controversial post-electoral process.\n\nEight political parties participated in the 2006 presidential election; five of them joined forces in two different electoral coalitions.\n\nCompetition was intense, with the National Action Party (PAN) eager to hold on to the presidency for a second period, the Institutional Revolutionary Party (PRI) equally keen to regain the office it lost in the 2000 election for the first time in 71 years (then in coalition with the Ecologist Green Party of Mexico), and the Party of the Democratic Revolution (PRD) (then in coalition with Convergence and the Labor Party) believing itself to have a good chance to win after disappointments in the two previous elections.\n\nOn July 6, 2006 the Federal Electoral Institute (IFE) announced the final vote count in the 2006 presidential election, resulting in a narrow margin of 0.58 percentage points of victory for Felipe Calderón Hinojosa (PAN). Calderon's victory was confirmed by the Federal courts on September 5, 2006, and he was declared President-elect of Mexico. However, Andrés Manuel López Obrador (PRD), and his party, alleged irregularities in over 30% of the country's polling stations, and still after an unsuccessful judicial appeal of election results the PRD continued to call for street protests.\n\nThe IFE declared at 11:00 pm on July 2, 2006 that the statistics yielded by the official quick count indicated that the presidential election was too close to call, meaning that the difference between the two front-runners was smaller than their margin of error, or 0.3% of the vote. The IFE further declared that the official count, which began on Wednesday, July 5, 2006, was to determine which candidate will be recognized as president elect.\n\nNevertheless, front-running presidential candidates Felipe Calderón Hinojosa (PAN) and Andrés Manuel López Obrador (PRD) declared themselves the winners, basing their speeches on a number of private exit-polls, some quoted and some not quoted, that gave a lead within the margin of error. PAN chairman Manuel Espino Barrientos requested that IFE declare a winner by the night of July 3, 2006.\n\nPreliminary results clearly showed that PRI-PVEM candidate Roberto Madrazo did not have a realistic chance of winning the presidency. Those results also showed that the smaller parties (Nueva Alianza and Alternativa Socialdemócrata y Campesina) would retain their registration.\n\nThe so-called \"foreign vote\", whereby for the first time Mexican citizens living abroad were allowed to vote, albeit solely in the presidential contest, totalled only slightly more than 32,000 voters. The overall turn-out for this election was approximately 59% of the eligible voters.\n\nThe Preliminary Electoral Results Program (\"Programa de Resultados Electorales Preliminares\", or PREP) is mandated by law to provide a quick estimate of the electoral results, but it has no authority to determine the outcome of the election.\n\nThis point was made repeatedly by IFE President Ugalde in his official statements as the 2006 electoral process unfolded.\nThe use of the PREP has been criticized because its data has been used by one candidate to proclaim his victory and by the other as supposed evidence of fraud. However, the PREP tends to predict the winner accurately when the difference between candidates is more than 1% (a condition that was not met in this election).\n\nIFE information coordinator René Miranda dismissed PRD allegations that the changes in PREP's numbers were statistically improbable, saying the PREP was used objectively and impartially to \"reflect the reality of the country\".\n\nAfter the PREP was concluded on 4 July, the official district-based counts were begun on Wednesday 5 July 2006. In accordance with the Federal Code of Electoral Procedures and Institutions (COFIPE), each of Mexico's 300 congressional districts tabulated the votes recorded on the tally sheets (the \"actas\") for each voting precinct in their district. \"In some cases, such as when a tally sheet was illegible, the sealed ballot packets were opened and recounted.\" All under the eyes of any election observers that any political party cared to provide.\n\nThe district committee results, along with the ballots, were then transferred to the IFE in Mexico City, which resulted in the running total shown below. Early returns favored López Obrador, but by 04:07 Mexico City time, Calderón overtook him.\nBy 07:45, Calderón was leading by approximately 0.33% of the vote.\n\nThe volatility in the vote count was not unexpected. From the beginning, the IFE stated that running totals should not be construed as a trend, and that the official result would be released only when all polling stations had been counted. Several northern states, which strongly favored the PAN party in the PREP results, were slow in counting their ballots. This delay was at least partially attributable to the double-checking of district station totals with the actual ballot counts,\nthat any political party may ask for under Mexican law.\n\nOn 6 July, having narrowly lost the preliminary official count, López Obrador declared his intent\nto challenge the results before the Federal Electoral Tribunal (TEPJF), and demand a full recount of all ballots in Mexico City. On 8 July, his supporters met at Mexico City's Zócalo square to start what Obrador called \"the defense of the popular vote\". The PRD also made a presentation on alleged election irregularities, including (as reported in \"La Jornada\"), allegations that around 7:00 PM, the IFE's running scoreboard vote tally blinked zero for all candidates for a period of 4 minutes.\n\nThe election-inspired protests were largely peaceful, and according to former IFE president José Woldenberg, well within the law. However some unions and PRD supporters called for \"civil resistance\" if the courts decided to ratify Calderón's victory. Some, like editorialist Armando Fuentes Aguirre, expressed concern that this could lead to armed conflict.\n\nOn 5 September 2006 the Federal Electoral Court declared Calderón the definitive winner.\n\nThe final vote tally of the top two candidates was Calderón 35.89% (15,000,284 votes), López Obrador 35.31% (14,756,350 votes), a difference of 243,934 (or 0.58%) votes.\n\nElection monitors from the European Union stated on 8 July that they found no irregularities that could have affected the transparency of the results and that could have impacted the results. Other election monitors found many examples of fraud and irregularities and demanded a full recount . See also: Controversies of the 2006 Mexican general election\n\nEarlier media reports had indicated that in two separate incidents, one in Ciudad Nezahualcóyotl and one in Xalapa, used ballots and other electoral materials were found in rubbish dumps. \"Reforma\" later reported that this supposed electoral material was found to be photocopies and did not influence the election. Al Giordano, though, in a July 8 \"Narco News\" article, has a \"La Jornada\" photo of three completed color ballots found in a Mexico City trash can.\n\nBased on the official results of the Federal Electoral Institute\nSoon after it was clear that the official count would result with Felipe Calderón ahead, Andrés Manuel López Obrador stated that he and his party, the PRD, would fight for a \"vote-by-vote\" general recount.\n\nHe presented nine boxes and 900 pages of supposed evidence alleging mathematical electoral irregularities in 50,000 polling places to the Federal Electoral Tribunal (TEPJF). In addition, he claimed that in areas with large numbers of López Obrador supporters, election officials nullified 900,000 votes.\n\nLópez Obrador and his supporters began organizing mass protests, marches, and civil disobedience, culminating in a massive rally in Mexico City's historic Zócalo on 30 July 2006. Estimates of the crowd at the rally range from 500,000 to 3,000,000 supporters. Additionally, López Obrador's campaign has set up \"plantones\", or encampments, inside the Zócalo and along Paseo de la Reforma, one of Mexico City's main arteries, for 47 days and slowing traffic for hours. The encampments were widely unpopular, as 65% of inhabitants in Mexico City opposed them.\n\nOn Saturday, 5 August, the TEPJF met in public session to decide the outcome of López Obrador's request for a recount. The seven magistrates voted unanimously that there was only sufficient legal justification to order the recount of 11,839 ballot boxes in 155 districts (9.2% of the total), thus rejecting López Obrador's public demand that all votes and ballot boxes be recounted. The Tribunal based its decision of a partial recount on its finding that, despite publicly demanding a vote by vote general recount, López Obrador's party only presented legal claims to less than 44,000 polling stations, or less than 34%. Therefore, legally, only those 44,000 polling stations were deemed controversial by the TEPJF. The Tribunal ruled that the non-controversial votes should not be recounted, because \"the certainty asked by the Coalition (of López Obrador's party) is tied to the respect of the citizen counts in non-controversial polling stations\". However, the Tribunal did certify that principles of certainty in the elections called for a justified recount in some of the controversial stations, as irregularities were found.\n\nIn the western state of Jalisco alone, 2,705 ballot boxes (33% of the state's total) will be recounted due to \"evident mathematical errors\". The state with the highest percentage of ballot boxes to be reopened is Aguascalientes with 436 or 35% of its 1,226 total ballot boxes. Other states with a high percentage of ballot boxes authorized to be opened include:\nTamaulipas, 942 ballot boxes (or 23.7% of total ballot boxes); Campeche, 170 (18.3%); Chihuahua, 727 (15%); Durango, 344 (15.4%); Nuevo León, 508 (10%); San Luis Potosí, 495 (16%); Sinaloa, 334 (7.7%); Yucatán, 228 (10.5%); Zacatecas, 221 (9.23%); Querétaro, 9.4%.\n\nStates with small percentages include: Chiapas, 81 ballot boxes (1.6%); Distrito Federal, 227 (1.85%); Estado de México, 362 (2.33%); Michoacán, 300 (5.5%); Morelos, 124 (6%); Puebla, 194 (3.22%); Veracruz, 396 (6.56%); and Quintana Roo, 10 (0.8%).\n\nThe recount commenced on Wednesday, 9 August, (CBC) (VOA) and concluded on Sunday, 13 August. Only after calculating the recounted votes will the TEPJF declare the candidate with the most votes as president-elect.\n\nOn Friday, August 11, both disputing parties held press conferences, in which, despite the TEPJF's insistence that no recount results would be released until Sunday, each provided their own internal figures based on their observers in the recount. These figures clashed dramatically; according to the PAN, 75% of the votes had been recounted and the results confirmed that the initial count was \"perfect\", with fewer than three errors per ballot box and no systemic bias. (This is the message that most of the press reported, although others reported that the \"75% without errors\" figure was out of the completed, not the total, recount; still, the figures were hard to square with Coalition claims.) The Coalition claimed that only 60% of the recount was complete, and that in this recount their party had gained an average of 29 votes per ballot box. (Again, this was the message in most of the press, though other press outlets seemed to imply that the Coalition claims included lost or excess ballots as well as miscounted ones.). \n\nOn August 28, the TEPJF announced the results of the partial recount, subtracting 81,080 votes for Calderón, 76,897 votes for López Obrador, 63,114 for Roberto Madrazo, 5,962 for Patricia Mercado, 2,743 for Roberto Campa, and 7,940 for the remaining candidates. A total of 237,736 votes were annulled out of the approximately 4 million votes recounted. That means around 6% of the recounted votes were annulled.\n\nDespite the Tribunal's ruling, and despite the ruling being based on his party's decision of not contesting all polls judicially, López Obrador continues to demand the \"vote-by-vote\" general recount, promising to continue civil disobedience and sit-ins. He was quoted as saying, \"We don't want a portion of democracy. We want 100% democracy.\" \n\nA day before the end of the recount, López Obrador's coalition threatened with national mobilizations to prevent the \"imposition\" of Calderón, if the PAN candidate was confirmed the winner of the election. \n\nOn Thursday November 23, 2006 the European Union (EU) election observer mission presented its final report. The report was generally positive and defended the official result of the July 2 presidential election saying they \"reflect[ed] the legitimate will of the Mexican people.\" However, the report also expressed concerns and raised several criticisms, both general and specific, of the electoral process and the election. The report includes 48 specific recommendations for future reform to \"strengthen the electoral process\", such as introducing random automatic recounts in the case of a close election, shortening the campaign period, considering the introduction of a two round run-off system for presidential elections, and general clarifications in the electoral law (e.g., clarifying the grounds for requesting a recount and for the annulling of the election).\n\nA November 24, 2006 article by \"The Herald Mexico\" reports: \"All of Mexico's major parties have called for reforms to electoral laws, including clearer limits on funding, greater transparency on campaign spending and a shorter campaign period.\"\n\nThe article also reports: \"The EU mission, headed by Spanish Deputy José Ignacio Salafranca, said on Thursday that a runoff election would help the nation's electoral system, especially following results as close as this year's, when Felipe Calderón beat Andrés Manuel López Obrador by less than a percentage point. In a news conference, Salafranca said that while a second round would be expensive, it would give 'greater democratic legitimacy' to the result.\"\n\nEight political parties participated in the 2006 congressional election to renew all seats in the upper and lower houses of Congress.\n\nIn the current session of Congress, no party holds a majority.\n\nSummary\nThe high degree of controversy and polarization that resulted from this election gave way to a grave political crisis in Mexico throughout 2006. The elections were more controversial than those of 1988, and in a symbolic act, on 20 November López Obrador organized a ceremony to take office as the \"Legitimate President of Mexico\", followed by his sympathizers.\n\nCalderón's inauguration ceremony on 1 December at the Congress of the Union was tense and lasted less than five minutes, as he barely managed to recite the oath of office while the PRD legislators shouted in protest against the alleged electoral fraud and attempted to impede his inauguration, and afterward he quickly left the building for security reasons as some of the legislators engaged in violent brawls. Besides the claims of fraud, Calderón took office with the smallest percentage of votes for a winning presidential candidate in Mexican history (35.8%), which meant that his administration would face severe legitimacy problems. Only a month after taking office, Calderón declared war on the drug cartels and organized crime, thus beginning the Mexican Drug War. This was considered by many as an immediate strategy to gain popular legitimacy and acceptation for the new President after the convoluted elections.\n\nThe 2006 elections remain a point of controversy and discussion. López Obrador, who ran for the presidency again in 2012 before finally winning the presidency on his third try in 2018, has always considered himself as the legitimate winner of this election.\n\nFilmmaker Luis Mandoki produced a documentary titled \"Fraude: México 2006\", in which he chronicles many events of the second half of Vicente Fox's administration that led up to the heated 2006 election, and highlights the irregularities that took place during the process. The film has a duration of 110 minutes and topped the Mexican box office on its 2007 debut.\n\nIn a 2011 opinion poll published by El País about whether the 2006 elections had been fraudulent, 49% of the respondents believed that the election was rigged, against 43% who believed it wasn't rigged and 8% who were unsure.\n\nIn 2017, PRI member and former governor of Coahuila, Humberto Moreira accused Calderón of \"stealing the Presidency\" in 2006. In October 2018, Roberto Madrazo, who was the 2006 PRI presidential candidate, stated in an interview that according to the data he received after the election, López Obrador had been the winner.\n\nMexican sociologist Jacqueline Peschard has identified the \"breakdown in consensus that nearly resulted\" because of this election as a major turning point in the history of Mexico as a functioning and legitimate liberal democracy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2059567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059567", "title": "Disney on Ice", "text": "Disney on Ice\n\nDisney on Ice, originally Walt Disney's World on Ice, is a series of touring ice shows produced by Feld Entertainment's Ice Follies And Holiday on Ice, Inc. under agreement with The Walt Disney Company. Aimed primarily at children, the shows feature figure skaters portraying the roles of Disney characters in performances derived from various Disney films. Feld Entertainment licensed the rights to Disney material for ice shows and includes shared merchandising revenue between Disney and Ice Follies.\n\nSoon after Mattel's Irvin & Kenneth Feld Productions purchased Ice Follies and Holiday on Ice in 1979, the company approached Disney about doing a Disney-related show on ice. Feld Productions licensed the rights to Disney material for ice shows. In 1981, they began productions under the name Walt Disney's World on Ice.\n\nIn March 1982, Irvin & Kenneth Feld purchased back Feld Productions from Mattel including Ice Follies/Walt Disney's World on Ice. In 1986, Walt Disney's World on Ice made its international debut in Japan with Happy Birthday Donald. In 1988, the company had five touring shows. The name was changed to \"Disney on Ice\" in 1998. By 2008, a new show is launched every year.\n\nThe show is usually hosted by Mickey Mouse assisted at times by Minnie Mouse, Donald Duck, and Goofy. More recently, the series features segments about the Disney Princesses, and \"Frozen\". A new production is launched almost every year.\n"}
{"id": "2059569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059569", "title": "Birkenhead School", "text": "Birkenhead School\n\nBirkenhead School is an independent, selective, co-educational school located in Oxton on the Wirral in the north west of England. It is a member of the Headmasters' and Headmistresses' Conference.\n\nThe school is subdivided into\n\n\nEntrance is via the Preparatory School, by open competitive examination at 11, by Common Entrance at 13, or by interview at the sixth-form level. The school offers some assistance with fees to pupils who would not otherwise be able to take up a place at the school through a bursary scheme financed by the Birkenhead School Foundation Trust. This charity was established in 1998 and is currently supporting about sixty pupils in the school. A few scholarships are also awarded, based principally on academic ability, but occasionally as a result of exceptional sporting or musical potential. These give a fixed reduction in fee, independent of the parents’ financial circumstances. The school no longer has boarders.\n\nThe current headmaster is Paul Vicars who started in September 2016. Previous headmasters include David Edmunds (2015–16), Jerry Grundy (2014–15), John Clark (2003–2014), Stuart Haggett (1988–2003), John Gwilliam (1963–1988), Kenneth \"KD\" Robinson (1946–1963) and Warin Foster Bushell (1930–1946).\n\nAs well as a strong sporting tradition, the school had a Combined Cadet Force (CCF) contingent, which started in October 1914 just a few months after the start of the First World War with an Army section, although, the Royal Air Force and Royal Navy sections were not founded until a few years after the end of the Second World War in 1949 and 1950, respectively. Until 2006, the CCF had been incorporated as part of the normal school timetable, initially compulsory for pupils of the fourth form to the lower sixth (now Years 10-12) then voluntary, but it then became an entirely voluntary after-school activity, although it did allow pupils in the third form (now Year 9) to join the Corps for the first time. However, according to the Summer 2015 edition of \"In Focus\" magazine which contained a potted history of the CCF, declining numbers of cadets resulted in the disbandment of the CCF at the end of the summer term in 2015, ending 101 years of military-related tradition at the school. The CCF was then replaced by a variety of adventurous activities for the pupils. It also has a student council, created in 2003, which seeks to improve the lives of Birkenhead School pupils.\n\nThe last formal inspection of the school took place in February 2012 and focussed particularly on the Early Years Foundation Stage. The report by the Independent Schools Inspectorate concluded that the School was 'outstanding' in every category (Overall Effectiveness, Leadership and Management, Quality of Provision and Outcomes for Children). A previous inspection report for the whole School (in 2007) commented that pupils have \"evident self-esteem and positive, secure moral values… excellent relationships with teachers and other pupils, [they] willingly take on responsibility and recognise the importance of contributing to the social good. They have a good understanding of their own culture and that of others. Pupils’ behaviour is exemplary, and they have an excellent attitude to their studies in lessons.\"\n\nBirkenhead School was opened in Park Road North, Birkenhead on 9 August 1860 at first called Birkenhead Proprietary School. It started with 18 pupils but had grown to 30 by the end of the first term. By 1870 there were 85 pupils and so a new building was required. The school moved to its present site in Oxton on 2 November 1871. The school's motto was taken from the gospel reading for that day. The Chapel was opened in 1883. The Preparatory Department was established in September 1889 and moved to Beresford Road in 1893. During 1899 the ground alongside Beresford Road was leveled to create the school’s playing field.\n\nIn 1905 the Noctorum ground, approximately 2.3 hectares (5.5 acres), was rented and subsequently bought in 1910. Buildings on Bidston Road were acquired in 1920 for use as a science block and in 1921 the Lodge in Beresford Road was purchased for the use of the school. The Fender Ground, 9.3 hectares, was acquired in 1922 and part was used by the newly formed Old Birkonian Football Club, prior to moving to an adjacent ground in 1926. Matches were played here until 1976, when the club merged with Birkenhead Park Rugby Club. As playing fields nearer the school were developed, Fender Field was later sold. In 1931, \"Junior School\" was started in Overdale at the top of Beresford Road.\n\nIn 1948 the L.C. McAllester Memorial Ground, 4.7 hectares, was presented to the school. It was officially opened in 1952. A purpose-built science block on Bidston Road was built in 1958, and has since been expanded. In 1982 the Bushell Hall was opened for use by the main school, and the Preparatory School moved into the vacated Shrewsbury Road buildings. These included the original \"big school\" dating back to 1871, and the recently closed boarding house which at its peak had catered for over forty boarders. The vacated Preparatory School building in Beresford Road was then adapted to provide an extensive Music School, although this has subsequently moved onto the main School campus and the Beresford Road property sold and redeveloped as apartments.\n\nWhat was the headmaster’s house on Shrewsbury Road was acquired in 1988 so that by then the school owned all the properties in the block apart from the Holy Name Church on Beresford Road. In 1992, the Sports Hall was completed. In conjunction with Oxton Sports Club, an all-weather pitch was completed on the McAllester Field site, and also in 1992 the Preparatory Department’s purpose built Little School was opened in Kingsmead Road South. In 2001 a climbing wall was added to the Sports Hall. The school opened a Nursery in 2006, catering for children from 3 months upwards. Building work to support the co-educational future of the school, including additional classrooms on Shrewsbury Road and an extension to the Sports Pavilion at McAllester Field to provide female changing facilities, was completed in 2009. In 2011 the redeveloped Sixth Form Centre on Bidston Road opened.\n\nIn 2000 the sixth form became co-educational. This was followed by the Pre-Prep Department (kindergarten) in 2006. Partly in response to the decision of Birkenhead High School to become a non-selective city academy, Birkenhead School became wholly co-educational in 2008 and girls currently make up around 28% of the school (38% of Prep). In 2010 the first female chaplain was appointed and in 2015 the first female Head of School, Eleanor Hilton, was appointed.\n\nIn 1935 Birkenhead School became a Direct Grant school. Under this scheme it received a subsidy from the local education authority allowing fees to be based on the ability to pay, with some places being free. The Direct Grant scheme began to be phased out in 1976 and so the School became independent. An Assisted Places Scheme was introduced in 1980 but this was abolished in 1997. Bursaries and assisted places are now provided by the privately funded Birkenhead School Foundation Trust.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2059576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059576", "title": "Hot Digital Tracks", "text": "Hot Digital Tracks\n\nThe Hot Digital Tracks chart is a song popularity chart that ranks the best selling digital tracks in the United States according to \"Billboard\" magazine. It is not to be confused with the Hot Digital Songs chart, which combines different versions of songs for a summarized figure (for example remixes, \"explicit\" or \"clean\" versions, and/or any other alternate versions can chart separately here, whereas all versions of the same track occupy only one position on Hot Digital Songs).\n\nSoundscan started tracking download at the end of June 2003 and the first download chart was created in July 2003. However, the data from Hot Digital Songs would not be used as a component for compiling the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 until January 2005. The chart is not published on billboard.com, but is still published on billboard.biz. Digital songs with UPC counts towards Hot 100 but those without does not.\n\n"}
{"id": "2059578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059578", "title": "Gilbert Grant", "text": "Gilbert Grant\n\nGilbert Harrison Grant (1885 – July 16, 1972) was a politician in Manitoba, Canada. He served in the Legislative Assembly of Manitoba from 1945 to 1949 as a Liberal-Progressive.\n\nBorn in Milton, Ontario, Grant was educated in Granton and received a degree in pharmacy from Upper Canada College. He moved to Manitoba and operated drug stores in Brandon and then, after 1925, in Souris. Grant served as chairman of the Souris and Glenwood Hospital Board. He was a director and later vice-president for the Wawanesa Mutual Insurance Company.\n\nGrant was elected to the Manitoba legislature in the 1945 provincial election, defeating a candidate of the Cooperative Commonwealth Federation by over 1,000 votes in the constituency of Glenwood. He served as a government backbencher for the next four years, supporting the ministries of Stuart Garson and Douglas Campbell. He did not run for re-election in 1949.\n\nHe died in Souris in 1972 and was buried in Brandon.\n"}
{"id": "2059586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059586", "title": "Abdul Kader Siddique", "text": "Abdul Kader Siddique\n\nAbdul Kader Siddique is a Bangladeshi politician. He is popularly known under the title of Bangabir. He served as a Mukti Bahini member and organizer of the Bangladesh Liberation War. He fought with an estimated 17,000-strong guerrilla force in the Tangail region against the Pakistan Army. The army was called \"Kaderia Bahini\" (Kader's Army). At the end of the war, on 16 December 1971, Siddique's forces entered Dhaka along with the Indian forces, signaling the end of the war. He was awarded Bir Uttom by the Government of Bangladesh. Since 1999, he has been serving as the leader of his own-formed party Krishak Sramik Janata League.\n\nDuring the Bangladesh Liberation war, he formed Kader Bahini to fight against the Pakistan military. The Kader Bahini had 17 thousand personnel. He was loyal to Sheikh Mujibur Rahman. He and his unit fought mostly in Tangail District.\n\nAfter the Independence of Bangladesh, Siddique went back to his home town of Tangail where he enjoyed considerable patronage from the Awami League, the party of Prime Minister Mujibur Rahman.\n\nAfter the assassination of Mujibur Rahman in 1975, Siddiqui and his followers organised attacks on the authorities of Khondakar Mushtaque's government. Elements loyal to Siddiqui operated from bases in Assam province in India and were actively supported by India's Border Security Force. In the insurgency against the military government of Bangladesh 104 rebels were killed and more than 500 were injured. The insurgency lasted more than two years. He was tried by a military court on 24 July 1978 and sentenced to 7 years in jail. He was sentenced to life imprisoned on revolt and murder charges. He was accused of killing a major and a number of soldiers of Bangladesh Army after the Assassination of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman following the 15 August 1975 Bangladesh coup d'état. On 16 December 1990, he returned to Bangladesh from self imposed exile in India. He was arrested in Bangladesh on 17 January 1991.\n\nSiddique was elected member of the parliament of Bangladesh from different constituencies of Tangail.\n\nIn 1996, Siddique was elected to Parliament as a Bangladesh Awami League candidate from Tangail-8. In 1999, Siddique was expelled from Awami League. He then resigned from the parliament and formed his own party Krishak Sramik Janata League. This triggered a by-election, which he lost to the Bangladesh Awami League candidate, Shawakat Momen Shahjahan. Siddique was elected to parliament from Tangail 8 in 2001 Bangladesh General Election as a candidate of Krishak Sramik Janata League. On 17 October 2006 his rally was attacked by Bangladesh Chhatra League activists leaving 11 injured in Jamalpur District.\n\nA court in Dhaka issued an arrest warrant for Siddique on 11 November 2014 over a defamation case for calling Mohiuddin Khan Alamgir Alamgir, Minister of Home Affairs, a Razzakar.\n\nIn 2017, Bangladesh High Court disqualified Siddique from contesting a by-election from Tangail-4 because he had defaulted on a loan. He tried to contest the 2018 Bangladesh General Election from Tangail-4 and Tangail-8 but his candidacy was rejected by Bangladesh Election Commission. He, along with his party, joined the Jatiya Oikyafront to contest the election against the Bangladesh Awami League alliance. His daughter, Kuri Siddique, also applied for nomination from Tangail-8 in case his candidacy was rejected. The Election Commission rejected the appeal filed by Siddique, challenging the cancellation of his nomination on 8 December 2018.\n\nAccording to a report in \"The Times\", Siddique and his guerrillas beat up and subsequently bayoneted and shot to death a group of prisoners (who they claimed were members of the Razakars) after a rally held near Dhaka Stadium on 19 December 1971. Siddique personally bayoneted three prisoners to death and the entire incident was filmed by foreign film crews whom Siddique invited to witness the spectacle. Siddique was subsequently arrested by the Indian Army. Siddique discussed his involvement in the murders in an interview with Yasmin Saikia, the author of \"Women, War and Making Bangladesh: Remembering 1971\". After describing an event in which Siddiqui shot a Mukti Bahini soldier for stealing a shawl from a civilian, Saikia states, referring to the Dhaka stadium incident, that 'at the time he did not think of his act as a crime against humanity, being swayed by the Bengali public sentiment for revenge. Today he knows that both...were violent acts, and he is pained by his past'.\n\nSiddique is married to Nasrin Siddique. His elder brother Abdul Latif Siddiqui is also an Awami League politician who served as the member of parliament and the minister of Posts, Telecommunications and Information Technology. He, too, was expelled from the party in 2015. Their other two younger brothers are Murad Siddiqui and Azad Siddiqui.\n"}
{"id": "2059598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059598", "title": "Brian Jennings", "text": "Brian Jennings\n\nBrian Lewis Jennings (born October 14, 1976) is a former American football long snapper and tight end for the San Francisco 49ers of the National Football League (NFL). He played college football for Arizona State University, and was picked by the 49ers in the 7th round of the 2000 NFL Draft. He is a two-time Pro Bowl selection, having been chosen for the 2004 and 2012 Pro Bowls as a special teams player. He is the founder of Jennings 1-4-1, dedicated to developing the skill of long snapping.\n\nJennings was born in Mesa, Arizona. At Red Mountain High School in Mesa, he lettered in football, basketball, and track. As a senior, he was the team captain of the football team and was an all-region honorable mention as a tight end.\n\nJennings attended Arizona State University, where he played in 32 games as a tight end and long snapper for the Arizona State Sun Devils football team. He finished his college career with four receptions, one touchdown and nine tackles.\n\nJennings played his entire career as the starting long snapper for the San Francisco 49ers, a role he filled for the team for thirteen seasons.\n\nIn 2003, Jennings signed an offer sheet as a restricted free agent with the Detroit Lions. The 49ers matched the offer, and ultimately signed Jennings to a long-term deal.\n\nIn 2011, Jennings and Amendment M started Jennings 1-4-1, a long snapping camp for players of all ages. The first camp took place on July 16 at Spartan Stadium in San Jose, California.\n\nJennings was selected to his second Pro Bowl following the 2011 season. He had previously been named to the Pro Bowl following the 2003 season. \n\nAt the end of the 2012 season, Jennings and the 49ers appeared in Super Bowl XLVII. In the game, he contributed on special teams, but the 49ers fell to the Baltimore Ravens by a score of 34–31.\n\nJennings was released by the 49ers prior to the start of the 2013 NFL season.\n\nJennings is a regular on KNBR radio, due to his lively personality and intelligently comedic commentary. Jennings has also appeared on the Point After with Mark Ibanez doing post-game commentary on KTVU.\n\nHe also has a very peculiar diet, eschewing poultry and pork, largely subsisting on a strict whole grain and beef diet.\n\n"}
{"id": "2059605", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059605", "title": "Whipping Boy (American band)", "text": "Whipping Boy (American band)\n\nWhipping Boy was an American hardcore punk, psychedelic, and experimental-metal band from Palo Alto, California.\n\nThe band was created in 1981 by lead singer Eugene Robinson and guitarist Steve Ballinger, students from Stanford University, and rounded out by the rhythm section of Sam Smoot, and David Owens, also students. Their sound featured lightning-fast melodies, tight, chunky rhythms, and violently incoherent vocals. They espoused a radically anti-government view that caught the attention of the Dead Kennedys' Jello Biafra and led to his support. They were featured on a punk compilation \"Not So Quiet on the Western Front.\" Their first LP, \"The Sound of No Hands Clapping\" was produced by DK's Bassist, Klaus Flouride. The band enjoyed moderate success, and national tours in 1982 and 1983 were capped by the release of the psychedelic \"MuruMuru\" in 1983. This abrupt change in style was not welcomed by Whipping Boy's fanbase. After another national tour, several personnel changes followed. In 1984 Ron Isa on bass, Steve Shaughnessy on drums, and Niko Wenner on guitar and backing vocals joined original members Robinson and Ballinger. Not long after, Ballinger left and Bart Thurber joined on guitar, though Ballinger appeared on the next LP \"The Third Secret of Fatima.\" This third record was another relative stylistic change, and also involved Fluoride. After several further lineup changes and a 7\" record of a live-in-the-studio recording at radio station KFJC entitled \"Crow,\" the band went on hiatus in 1989. Incendiary front man and lyricist Eugene Robinson, drummer Dan Adams, and guitarist Niko Wenner have shifted their focus to the avant-garde noise-rock band Oxbow, where Adams currently plays bass and multi-instrumentalist Wenner composes and produces.\n"}
{"id": "2059607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059607", "title": "The Secret to Happiness Is Love", "text": "The Secret to Happiness Is Love\n\nThe Secret to Happiness Is Love ( x4) is a studio album by Taiwanese artist Vivian Hsu. It was released September 28, 2003, by Avex Taiwan. The original title \"Wǒ Ài Nǐ\" means \"I Love You\". There were three versions of this album produced: a limited edition with artbook, a preorder edition with artbook and bonus single CD, and a regular edition without the artbook, but with a VCD containing music videos.\n\nThe album contains Hsu's first rap song, Mianju, which was later featured in the compilation album \"Ji Le 175\". Also featured is \"Jueding Ai Ni\" (), the theme song to the TV series \"Love Storm\", in which Hsu starred in.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2059612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059612", "title": "John Tobias", "text": "John Tobias\n\nJohn Tobias (born August 24, 1969 in Chicago, Illinois) is an American comic book artist, graphic designer, video game designer and writer. Tobias is best known for creating the \"Mortal Kombat\" series along with Ed Boon.\n\nTobias became interested in drawing from an early age, inspired by comic books. During high school he took weekend courses at the Art Institute of Chicago. He was an artist for \"The Real Ghostbusters\" comic book series before joining Midway Games. Tobias said his original career plan was to be a comic book artist, but the advances in graphics at the time made the video game industry more appealing to him. He worked on the original arcade version of \"Smash TV\" (1990) prior to the success of \"Mortal Kombat\" in 1992. Tobias created the early \"Mortal Kombat\" series' storyline, themes, and settings; including the Outworld and Netherrealm. He was also responsible for the design of the entire character roster from the early games in the series through \"Mortal Kombat 4\" (1997). This includes the series' most popular characters including Kano, Liu Kang, Raiden, Johnny Cage, Scorpion, Sub-Zero, Sonya Blade, and Goro.\n\nTobias, along with other prominent Midway staff members, including Dave Michicich and Josh Tsui, left Midway in 1999 and formed Studio Gigante in 2000. \"\", published by Microsoft Game Studios in 2003, was the first game Studio Gigante created, followed by \"WWE WrestleMania 21\" in 2005. Studio Gigante ceased operations in 2005 and Tobias worked as a consultant in the games industry until September 2012, when he joined social games studio Zynga.\n\nDespite being one of the original creators of the \"MK\" series, Tobias is not mentioned in commentary or descriptions in the \"making of\" documentaries for \"Deadly Alliance\" and \"Deception\", but was referred to as one of \"four people who made\" the original \"Mortal Kombat\". However, he can be seen in the commentaries for \"Mortal Kombat 3\" in the collection \"Midway Arcade Treasures 2\". In 2008, Tobias illustrated a pack-in comic with special editions of \"Mortal Kombat vs. DC Universe\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2059615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059615", "title": "Río Negro (Uruguay)", "text": "Río Negro (Uruguay)\n\nThe Río Negro (, \"Black River\") is the most important river in Uruguay. It originates in the southern highlands of Brazil, just east of Bagé, and flows west across the entire width of Uruguay to the Uruguay River. The course of the Río Negro across Uruguay effectively divides the south of the country from the north. The Río Negro's principal tributaries are Yí River and Tacuarembó River.\nThe river is dammed near Paso de los Toros, creating the Rincón del Bonete Reservoir, also called the Gabriel Terra Reservoir or the Rio Negro Reservoir. With a surface area of about , it is the largest reservoir in Uruguay and an installed capacity of 160 MW.\n\nDownstream from the Rincón del Bonete Reservoir, there are two more dams, the Baygorria Dam and the Constitución Dam at Palmar, which generate hydroelectric power for Uruguay with 108 MW and 333 MW, respectively.\n\nThe Río Negro's drainage basin size is about .\n\nThere is a delta at its confluence with the Uruguay River with two main mouths. Yaguarí creek -bordered by Vizcaino and Lobos Islands- is the navigable entry to Negro River, and may change water flow direction when the Uruguay is high while the southern mouth (Spanish: Boca Falsa) is very wide but shallow.\n\n"}
{"id": "2059625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059625", "title": "House of Fraser", "text": "House of Fraser\n\nHouse of Fraser is a British department store group with 51 stores across the United Kingdom and Ireland. It was established in Glasgow, Scotland in 1849 as Arthur and Fraser. By 1891, it was known as Fraser & Sons. The company grew steadily during the early 20th century, and after the Second World War a large number of acquisitions transformed the company into a national chain.\n\nFrom 1936 onwards the company expanded substantially through acquisitions, including Scottish Drapery Corporation (1952), Binns (1953), Barkers of Kensington (1957), and Dickins & Jones and the Harrods group (1959). In 1948, the company was first listed on the London Stock Exchange. Later acquisitions included Howells (1972) and Army & Navy Stores (1973).\n\nOwnership of the group passed to the Al Fayed family in 1985 (£615million), and in 1995 it was listed in the FTSE Index as House of Fraser plc, with Harrods moved into the private ownership of the Al Fayeds. In the 1990s several stores were closed and fifteen stores transferred to a joint venture with British Land Company, which then continued operating under their old name. The former Harrod group store D H Evans on Oxford Street, London was re-branded as House of Fraser in 2001 and became the chain's flagship store.\n\nIn 2005, the group acquired Jenners (£46m), and Beatties (£69m). In 2006, group was acquired by a consortium of investors (Highland Group Holdings) including Icelandic based Landsbanki (35%). An online store was launched in 2007. In 2014 the group (as Highland Group Holdings Ltd) was sold to Nanjing Xinjiekou Department Store Co. (Sanpower Group), a leading chain of Chinese department stores for approximately £480 million.\n\nIn May 2018, the group entered a company voluntary arrangement, and in June the closure of 31 stores was announced. On 10 August 2018 Mike Ashley's Sports Direct chain agreed to buy the business (stores, stock, brand) for £90 million after the chain went into administration earlier that day.\n\nThe company was founded by Hugh Fraser and James Arthur in 1849 as a small drapery shop on the corner of Argyle Street and Buchanan Street in Glasgow, Scotland trading as Arthur and Fraser.\n\nHugh Fraser had been apprenticed to Stewart & McDonald Ltd, a Glasgow drapery warehouse where he rose to the position of warehouse manager and from where he brought many of initial customers.\n\nJames Arthur also owned a retail drapery business in Paisley, near Glasgow: he appointed a manager to oversee the Paisley business while he focused on his new business.\n\nThe company established a wholesale trade in adjoining premises in Argyle Street. In 1856 the wholesale business moved to a larger site in Miller Street, Glasgow and started to trade under the name Arthur & Co. The retail side of the business expanded into the vacant buildings left by the wholesale side.\n\nDuring the late 1850s and early 1860s the retail business was run by a professional manager – first Thomas Kirkpatrick and then Alexander McLaren. In 1865 the partnership between the partners was dissolved and Fraser assumed control of the retail business leaving Arthur with the wholesale business. In 1865 McLaren joined the retail business and the name was changed to Fraser & McLaren.\n\nWhen the first Hugh Fraser died in 1873, his three eldest sons, James, John and Hugh, acquired stakes in the business. James and John Fraser were initially directors in the business and employed Alexander McLaren and later John Towers to manage it for them. In 1891 Hugh also joined the partnership which by then was called Fraser & Sons.\n\nIn 1879, the current flagship store on Oxford Street in London was opened by Dan Harries Evans, a 23-year-old from Whitemill in Carmarthenshire, Wales who had previously been apprenticed to a draper in Forest Hamlet near Merthyr Tydfil, Wales. He moved to London in 1878 to set up his own business in Westminster Bridge Road. The store traded under the D H Evans name until 2001.\n\nBy 1900, Hugh Fraser II was in charge: he incorporated the business as Fraser & Sons Ltd in 1909 and introduced the famous stag's head motif.\n\nAfter Hugh Fraser II died in 1927, his son Hugh Fraser III, an accountant, became Chairman of the business. He opened new departments, enlarged the tearoom, opened a restaurant and also began to look at possible acquisitions. In 1936 he purchased Arnott & Co Ltd and its neighbour Robert Simpson & Sons Ltd in nearby Argyle Street, merging the companies to help improve trade. In 1948 the Company, now named House of Fraser, was first listed on the London Stock Exchange.\n\nIn 1951, the Company purchased McDonald's Ltd, and with it a branch in Harrogate. Fraser then purchased the Scottish Drapery Corporation in 1952, followed by the Sunderland based Binns group of stores in 1953.\n\nFraser sold the property sites to insurance companies, leasing them back for long terms at advantageous rates. This enabled the release of capital for the purchase of new premises and the modernisation of existing stores. In 1957 the Kensington store group of John Barker & Co Ltd was acquired and in 1959 Harrods and Dickins & Jones also joined the Group.\n\nSir Hugh Fraser succeeded his father as Chairman of the company when his father died in 1966. Sir Hugh resumed the expansion of the company in 1969 with the takeover of J. J. Allen Ltd, a Bournemouth based group.\n\nDuring the 1970s, the House of Fraser Group acquired more companies including: T. Baird & Sons Ltd of Scotland, Switzer & Co. Ltd of Dublin, Ireland, and E. Dingle & Co. Ltd, Chiesmans Ltd, Hide & Co and the Army & Navy Stores in southern England, as well as a number of independent stores, totaling over fifty stores during the decade. In 1973 the House of Fraser Group was considering merging with the British pharmacy company Boots, and was even subject to a written answer in the House of Commons. The government decided to ban the proposed merger in 1974.\n\nIn 1981, Prof. Roland Smith succeeded Sir Hugh Fraser as chairman. A takeover bid by Lonrho was referred to the Monopolies and Mergers Commission and declared to be contrary to the public interest. Four new stores opened between 1980 and 1984, including D H Evans in Wood Green, North London in 1980, Dickins & Jones in Milton Keynes in 1981, Frasers in Perth in April 1984, and Army & Navy in Epsom, Surrey in May 1984.\n\nThe company, by then House of Fraser PLC, diversified into sports goods under the name of Astral Sports and Leisure (subsequently sold to Sears plc, owned Olympus Sport division) and into funerals with Wylie & Lochhead. It also launched the 'You' range of cosmetics and jewellery shops, and in 1985 acquired Turnbull & Asser Holdings Ltd, shirt makers of Jermyn Street, London and Kurt Geiger Holdings Ltd, shoe retailers. Other developments during the 1980s included the introduction of \"Lifestyle\" merchandise ranges and a huge investment in store refurbishment nationwide. In 1983 the Company introduced the Frasercard (later renamed Recognition), valid at all stores and administered from a central facility based in Swindon.\n\nIn 1985, the Al Fayed family bought the business for £615 million. The Al Fayeds supported the continuing expansion of the Company and replaced the stag's head logo with a stag leaping from a green triangle with shop signs of this period using a double layered san serif typeface. In 1988, a five-year strategic business plan was announced which saw a rationalisation of stores. Small branches were to be relinquished and replaced with larger units.\n\nIn September 1990, two new department stores were opened, a House of Fraser in the Meadowhall Shopping Centre in Sheffield, and Schofields in Leeds. In 1991, a new House of Fraser store was opened at the Lakeside Shopping Centre in West Thurrock, Essex.\n\nIn 1994, before House of Fraser PLC was relisted on the London Stock Exchange, Harrods was moved out of the Group so that it could remain under the private ownership of the Al Fayed family. John Coleman, who was appointed chief executive of the House of Fraser Group in 1996, launched the Linea brand in 1997, along with Platinum and Fraser the following year. The House of Fraser logo was revised in 1996 with the leaping stag now going over an \"F\" shadow and shop signs using a serif typeface. There were many store closures in this period which included the closure or selling off of branches in locations including Sheffield (House of Fraser), Newcastle (Binns), Sunderland (Binns), Bradford (Rackhams) and Leeds (Schofields which had closed only six years after opening although House of Fraser continued to have a presence with their Rackhams (now House of Fraser store) in the city) with the loss of around 1,000 jobs.\n\nHouse of Fraser set up BL Fraser, a 50–50 joint venture with the British Land Company, in 1999 to buy 15 House of Fraser stores that would continue to be operated by House of Fraser. The Company added to its private-label brands in 2000 with House of Fraser womenswear, The Collection menswear, and a Linea Home.\n\nIn 2003, Tom Hunter put forward a hostile bid for the Group, with the possible intention to merge with Allders, another department store he had shareholdings in. In addition there was a large reduction in the number of House of Fraser stores in Scotland which included the sell off or closure of branches in Aberdeen (Frasers), Dundee (Arnotts), Inverness (Frasers), Paisley (Arnotts) and Perth (Frasers).\n\n2005 was a year of growth for House of Fraser with the acquisition of the four Jenners department stores in April for £46m, and Beatties, a mainly Midlands based department store chain of 12 sites, for £69.3m in the summer of 2005. In addition to buying companies, House of Fraser continued its own development programme and opened several more stores including its first store outside the UK (since the disposal of the Switzer business in Ireland in 1991) in Dundrum Town Centre, Dublin, Ireland. as well as stores in Maidstone and Norwich.\n\nIn 2006, the Company consolidated its portfolio by closing the 135-year-old Barkers business in Kensington High Street on 2 January 2006. and on 14 January 2006, closed its Dickins & Jones store in London's Regent Street following a substantial rent increase. In addition, the Company closed its Birmingham Beatties store in January 2006 (although retained the House of Fraser store in Birmingham).\n\nIn February 2006, the Group announced that it had received a preliminary bid approach valuing it at £300 million, and in August 2006 House of Fraser confirmed a takeover approach from the Highland consortium who acquired the Company for £351.4 million in November 2006. Highland Group Holdings Limited was 35% owned by Landsbanki.As part of the Highland takeover all brand names for their stores, including most of the Beatties branches, will be replaced with the House of Fraser name (with the exception of Jenners) with the stag logo axed and a new san serif typeface used on shop signs.\n\nIn September 2007, House of Fraser launched its online store.\n\nThe Company had four major openings in 2008, including its first store in Northern Ireland in the newly built Victoria Square Shopping Centre, Belfast in March. At it was the largest store that House of Fraser had opened (as opposed to taken over) in the UK. Also in March 2008, the Company opened a store in High Wycombe. On 25 September 2008 the Company opened a store in the Cabot Circus development in Bristol, and a branch in Westfield London, a new store, on 30 October 2008.\n\nHouse of Fraser launched the HouseofFraser.com \"Buy & Collect\" concept shop in October 2011 with its first location in Aberdeen. A further site, in Liverpool, opened in 2012. These small shops were equipped with computer terminals to allow customers to order from the House of Fraser website. Both shops had closed by the summer of 2016.\n\nIn December 2013, talks to takeover House of Fraser were held by French department store Galeries Lafayette with House of Fraser also exploring a floating on the London Stock Exchange once more in the summer of 2014 if the takeover was to be abandoned.\n\nIn April 2014, it was reported by the BBC that House of Fraser would be sold to Chinese conglomerate Sanpower Group, who would obtain 89% share in the company which would value the business at about £450 million. Nanjing Xinjiekou Department Store Co will buy an 89% stake in Highland Group Holdings Ltd, which owns House of Fraser. The purchase is worth £450 million. Sanpower Group is a 22 percent shareholder of the Nanjing Xinjiekou Department Store Co. On 2 September 2014 Don McCarthy, retiring Executive Chairman of House of Fraser, announced the completion of the sale of 100% of the preferred ordinary shares and B ordinary shares, and approximately 89% of the A ordinary shares and preference shares of Highland Group Holdings Ltd, to Nanjing Xinjiekou Department Store Co, a leading chain of Chinese department stores and part of the Sanpower Group, for an enterprise value of approximately £480 million. \n\nIn 2017, a new department store opened at the Rushden Lakes development in Rushden, Northamptonshire. The closure of House of Fraser Outlet in Leicester also took place during the year and a further closure, in Aylesbury, was announced for 2018, however, this never materialised following the acquisition by Sports Direct International. A new store in Chester was announced in February 2017 with construction due to start in mid-2018. It was announced later in 2018 that House of Fraser had pulled out of these plans due to their financial issues.\n\nOn 2 May 2018, the company announced that it was to be entering into a conditional sale of a controlling stake in the firm to Nanjing Cenbest (another Sanpower Group subsidiary) to Hamleys owner C.banner, another Chinese firm. A condition of the sale is that the company streamline its existing store portfolio and cost base. The intention to launch a company voluntary arrangement (CVA) was announced on the same day. However, C.banner later pulled out. \nOn 7 June 2018 the company announced that it would close 31 of its 58 UK stores: \n\nAltrincham • Aylesbury • Birkenhead • Birmingham • Bournemouth • Camberley • Cardiff • Carlisle • Chichester • Cirencester • Cwmbran • Darlington • Doncaster • Edinburgh Frasers • Epsom • Grimsby • High Wycombe • Hull • Leamington Spa • Lincoln • London Oxford Street • London King William Street • Middlesbrough • Milton Keynes • Plymouth • Shrewsbury • Skipton • Swindon • Telford • Wolverhampton • Worcester\n\nThis includes the flagship Oxford Street branch and the large Birmingham store in January 2019. Richard Lim of Retail Economics said that it remained \"hard to know with any certainty just what will happen next at House of Fraser\" but that without any external funding within a matter of weeks it would inevitably fall into administration. Before the closures the company employed 6,000 people directly, and another 11,500 concession staff. The subsequent administration of the business meant the CVA was no longer valid and the 29 stores marked for closure remained open.\n\nOn 10 August 2018, House of Fraser entered administration. Later that day Frasers Group agreed to buy the assets of the business – the House of Fraser stores, brand and the stock – for £90 million in cash. Soon after the acquisition, many store closures were announced including the previously safe Manchester store, as well as Nottingham, Lakeside, Gateshead and Norwich, among others. However, after months of negotiations, almost all stores were saved, with the exception of Shrewsbury, Cirencester, Edinburgh Frasers, Chichester and London King William Street, all of which closed during December 2018 and January 2019.\n\nIn October 2018 Frasers Group plc purchased the iconic Frasers building in Glasgow for £95 million and pledged to restore the building to its former glory.\n\nOn 14 June 2019, it was confirmed that the store in Hull, which nearly closed in December, would close in Summer 2019 as a result of failing to agree on redevelopments to the site.\n\nOn 26 July 2019, it was revealed that Sports Direct had received a £605 million bill from the Belgian tax authorities. The retailer rebutted the claims and the matter was resolved in January 2020. Sports Direct described the problems at House of Fraser as \"nothing short of terminal\". The cost of keeping the group running had been £51 million at that time. Its owner said there would be further store closures and added that there were a number of stores that, despite paying no rent, were still unprofitable. Sports Direct's CEO, Mark Ashley, attributed the collapse of House of Fraser to the \"incompetence of previous management\".\n\nIn the Frasers Group plc interim results in December 2019, the group noted it was starting to see signs of recovery as it continued to integrate the business into the Group and bring new disciplines, experience, and skills to bear which were helping the turnaround. The group also noted that the Frasers strategy is to create a superior shopping experience for the consumer which will be led by the original Frasers in Glasgow.\n\nAll stores trade as House of Fraser unless otherwise stated (November 2019):\nIt was stated in the press in May 2019 that Mike Ashley intends to open the next generation of lifestyle stores called Frasers. The group noted that the Frasers strategy is to create a superior shopping experience for the consumer which will be led by the original Frasers in Glasgow. Frasers are to open in new locations as well as some former House of Fraser stores; in January 2020 it was announced that House of Fraser Meadowhall would receive a significant investment to become a Frasers store. 'Frasers’ stores will be positioned at the luxury end of the market and will focus on brands, experiences, and services. The project is spearheaded by the groups Head of Elevation Michael Murray . \nIn addition to the flagship Glasgow location, the planned conversion of House of Fraser Belfast to the Frasers format was confirmed on 8 May 2019. A store will also open in Liverpool. \nIt was announced on 3 October 2019 that a new 94,000 sq ft Frasers store at Wolverhampton’s Mander Centre would open in premises due to be vacated by Debenhams in early 2020. The closure of the 376,000 sq ft Beatties store was confirmed at the same time. \nThe following branches are currently scheduled for permanent closure (January 2020).\n\nHouse of Fraser previously traded under many different, long established brand names. A number of regional groups of stores were acquired and subsequently extended or amalgamated. The Arnotts and Frasers groups were created by House of Fraser from scratch. These key groups, together with the flagship store of each one, and the regions to which they are largely associated are:\nOver the years, the following department stores have closed and no longer trade as part of the company.\n\nThe following department stores were demerged or sold as going concerns:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2059626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059626", "title": "UNIQ", "text": "UNIQ\n\nUNIQ is a nightclub in the centre of Helsinki, Finland, near the main building of the Helsinki University.\n\nIt is in the basement floor (one floor underground) of an office building housing a university research centre and an independent journalism studio.\n\nThe club's most noted feature is its \"arctic ice bar\", a separate room that is constantly kept at a temperature of about and has its own bar, which, like all the other furnishings, is made of blocks of ice shipped from Lapland.\n\nThe drinks at UNIQ are priced according to a \"drink stock market\", which updates the drink prices by increments of about 10 cents every few minutes depending on their popularity. Popular drinks become more expensive, while unpopular drinks become cheaper.\n\n"}
{"id": "2059630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059630", "title": "Nonpossessory interest in land", "text": "Nonpossessory interest in land\n\nA nonpossessory interest in land is a term of the law of property to describe any of a category of rights held by one person to use land that is in the possession of another. Such rights can generally be created in one of two ways: either by an express agreement between the party who owns the land and the party who seeks to own the interest; or by an order of a court.\n\nUnder the common law, there are five variations of such rights. These are:\n"}
{"id": "2059652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059652", "title": "Bubai de Lianren", "text": "Bubai de Lianren\n\n不敗の戀人 (py. Bùbài de Liànrén, en. Undefeatable Lover) is an album by Taiwanese singer/actress/model Vivian Hsu, released on 18 October 1999 via the BMG label. Vivian's older sister Penny sang backup on some of the tracks, and later married the producer of this album.\n\nTrack 10 is a Japanese translation of track 3. Later, almost the entire album was translated into Japanese, and released in Japan as Fuhai no Koibito on 23 March 2000. Exceptions to the Japanese release are tracks 2, 3, and 6, which are original. In Taiwan, the Japanese album was released on the same day as Happy Past Days with a bonus disc with Mandarin Chinese versions of two of the three original songs, tracks 3 and 6.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2059654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059654", "title": "John Aiken (RAF officer)", "text": "John Aiken (RAF officer)\n\nAir Chief Marshal Sir John Alexander Carlisle Aiken, (22 December 1921 – 31 May 2005) was a senior Royal Air Force (RAF) officer, and the Commander of British forces in Cyprus at the time of the Turkish invasion of the island in 1974.\n\nEducated at Birkenhead School, Aitken joined the Royal Air Force in 1941, serving in the Second World War in North-West Europe, flying Spitfires with No. 611 Squadron from 1942 and in the Far East as a flight commander with No. 548 Squadron flying Spitfires out of Darwin from 1944.\n\nIn 1948 he became an instructor at the RAF College Cranwell before becoming Officer Commanding Birmingham University Air Squadron in 1950. He was made Personal Staff Officer to the Air Officer Commanding-in-Chief at Fighter Command in 1954, Officer Commanding No. 29 Squadron in 1956 and a Staff Officer at Headquarters Allied Forces Northern Europe in 1958. He went on to be Deputy Director, Intelligence (Air) at the Air Ministry in 1960 before being appointed Station Commander at RAF Finningley in 1962. His next series of appointments were as Air Commodore (Intelligence) at the Ministry of Defence in 1964, Deputy Commander-in-Chief at RAF Germany in 1969 and Director-General of RAF Training in 1971. He was appointed as Commander-in-Chief Near East Air Force (including responsibility for British Forces Cyprus and Administration of the Sovereign Base Areas) in 1973. He remained there throughout the period of the Turkish invasion of Cyprus, during which time he was responsible for organising the evacuation of several thousand foreign nationals from Nicosia and Limassol. He returned to the UK in 1976 and became Air Member for Personnel. He retired in March 1978. On retirement, he was appointed Director General of Intelligence at the Ministry of Defence from 1978–81. He was President of the Royal Air Forces Association from 1984–85, and 1987–88.\n\nAiken was appointed a Companion of the Order of the Bath in 1967, and raised to Knight Commander of the Order in 1973. He died on 31 May 2005, aged 83.\n\nIn 1948 he married Pamela Bartlett; they had a son and a daughter.\n\n \n"}
{"id": "2059665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059665", "title": "A Legend of Montrose", "text": "A Legend of Montrose\n\nA Legend of Montrose is an historical novel by Sir Walter Scott, set in Scotland in the 1640s during the English Civil War. It forms, along with \"The Bride of Lammermoor\", the 3rd series of Scott's \"Tales of My Landlord\". The two novels were published together in 1819.\n\n\"A Legend of the Wars of Montrose\" was composed during May 1819, immediately after the completion of its companion novel \"The Bride of Lammermoor\" though it had been envisaged before the \"Bride\" was begun. Scott was still recovering from his serious illness of March 1819 and it is likely that the greater part of the new novel was dictated to John Ballantyne and William Laidlaw, though the manuscript for most of Chapters 3 to 6 is extant in his own hand.\n\nThe first edition of \"Tales of my Landlord (Third Series)\", consisting of \"The Bride of Lammermoor\" and \"A Legend of Montrose\" (the title reluctantly accepted by Scott), was published by Archibald Constable in Edinburgh on 21 June 1819 and in London on the 26th. As with all of the Waverley novels before 1827 publication was anonymous. Scott appears to have made some small changes to the text of \"Montrose\" when it appeared later that year in the \"Novels and Tales\", but his main revision was carried out in late 1829 and early 1830 for the 'Magnum' edition, including the provision of notes and an introduction: it appeared as Volume 15 in August 1830. The standard modern edition, by J. H. Alexander, was published under Scott's preferred title \"A Legend of the Wars of Montrose\" as Volume 7b of the Edinburgh Edition of the Waverley Novels in 1993: this is based on the first edition with emendations principally from Scott's manuscript; the new Magnum material is included in Volume 25a.\n\nThe story takes place during the Earl of Montrose's 1644-5 military campaign in Scotland on behalf of King Charles I against the Covenanters who had sided with the English Parliament in the English Civil War.\n\nThe main plot concerns a love triangle between Allan M'Aulay, his friend the Earl of Menteith, and Annot Lyle. Annot is a young woman who has been brought up by the M'Aulays since being captured as a girl during a blood feud against the MacEagh clan (also known as the Children of the Mist). M'Aulay and Menteith are both members of Montrose's army. Annot eventually marries Menteith after it is discovered that she has aristocratic blood, and was kidnapped by the MacEaghs as a baby. This leads to the jealous M'Aulay stabbing Menteith and then fleeing Montrose's army. Menteith survives whilst M'Aulay disappears and is rumoured to have been killed by the MacEaghs.\n\nMuch of the novel is taken up with a subplot involving an expedition into enemy territory by Dugald Dalgetty, an experienced mercenary fighting for Montrose. Dalgetty does not fight out of political or religious conviction, but purely for the love of carnage. However, he is very professional, and remains loyal to an employer to the end of his contract. He gained his experience fighting for various armies during the Thirty Years' War, then still raging in Germany. Note: He did not fight all thirty years. Dalgetty is regarded as one of Scott's finest comic characters, however he dominates so much of the story that the main plot is not really developed in detail.\n\n\nIntroduction: The narrator [Peter Pattieson] indicates that he received the tale that follows from a resident of Gandercleugh, the retired Serjeant More MacAlpin.\n\nCh. 1: A sketch of the political situation in late 17th-century Scotland.\n\nCh. 2: The mercenary soldier Dugald Dalgetty encounters the Earl of Menteith on the borders of the Highlands and tells him of his service on the Continent.\n\nCh. 3: Menteith and his servant Anderson outline to Dalgetty the advantages for a mercenary of serving in the Royalist interest.\n\nCh. 4: Arriving at Darnlinvarach castle, Menteith and Anderson exchange views on Dalgetty. Allan MacAulay seats Anderson above Dalgetty at table. His brother, the laird Angus, wins a wager with his guest Sir Miles Musgrave by having some of his men act as living chandeliers.\n\nCh. 5: Menteith tells Dalgetty the story of Allan's feud with the Children of the Mist, and of his reluctant sparing of Annot Lyle and subsequent fondness for her.\n\nCh. 6: Dalgetty agrees to serve with the Royalists. Annot soothes Allan by singing. He foresees that Menteith will be stabbed by a Highlander.\n\nCh. 7: The Royalist chiefs arrive with their retinues, and Menteith reveals Montrose, alias Anderson, as their leader.\n\nCh. 8: Sir Duncan Campbell arrives with a proposal from the Marquis of Argyle for a truce, and Dalgetty is selected to go to Inverara to negotiate terms.\n\nVolume Two\n\nCh. 1 (9): After debating the political situation with Allan and Menteith, Campbell is affected by Annot's singing.\n\nCh. 2 (10): As they arrive at Ardenvohr castle, Dalgetty and Campbell discuss its defensive capabilities.\n\nCh. 3 (11): Dalgetty is struck by Lady Campbell's gloomy demeanour at dinner, and afterwards the servant Lorimer explains that it is the anniversary of the murder of the four Campbell children by Highland freebooters. Dalgetty travels to Inverara.\n\nCh. 4 (12): Dalgetty receives a hostile reception from Argyle.\n\nCh. 5 (13): Imprisoned in a dungeon, Dalgetty meets Ranald MacEagh, who says he killed three of Campbell's four children, but one survives. Argyle enters in disguise and ascertains that the surviving child is Annot. Dalgetty recognises Argyle and overpowers him, enabling Ranald and himself to escape.\n\nCh. 6 (14): Joining the Children of the Mist with Ranald, Dalgetty is wounded by the pursuers from Inverara.\n\nCh. 7 (15): Montrose enjoys military success, leading Argyle to relinquish his command of the Covenanting forces and retire to Inverara.\n\nCh. 8 (16): Dalgetty and Ranald report to Montrose on the Children of the Mist, who will be able to help in an advance to the west.\n\nCh. 9 (17): Montrose assigns Kenneth, Ranald's grandson, to Dalgetty's service. Ranald, introduced by Dalgetty under a fictitious name, and Allan bond as seers. Musgrave announces that Annot is following the campaign. Ranald tells Allan that it is he (Allan) who will stab Menteith. Montrose takes Inverara, leading to a counter-movement by Argyle.\n\nCh. 10 (18): Both sides make preparations for battle at Inverlochy.\n\nCh. 11 (19): Argyle is defeated at Inverlochy, where Dalgetty's horse Gustavus is killed. Dalgetty intervenes when Allan wounds Ranald, who has revealed his identity, and subsequently is knighted.\n\nCh. 12 (20): Dalgetty goes off to seek booty after the battle. Menteith tells Montrose that he does not plan to woo Annot because of doubts about her parentage. Allan reproaches Annot for loving Menteith rather than himself.\n\nCh. 13 (21): Annot regrets that Allan has disturbed her quiet. Dalgetty summons her to attend to Campbell who was mortally wounded in the battle. Ranald reveals the secret of her parentage to Campbell and Menteith.\n\nCh. 14 (22): The dying Ranald instructs Kenneth to torment Allan by telling him that Menteith plans to marry Annot. Montrose fails to dissuade Menteith from pressing his suit, and Campbell agrees that the wedding should take place.\n\nCh. 15 (23): Angus is offended by the match but promises Montrose not to interfere. Allan stabs Menteith on the wedding day, but he survives to marry after a few weeks, and Allan passes into obscurity.\n\n\"A Legend of Montrose\" shared in the mixed reception with its companion novel by reviewers with their tendency to lament the familiar stylistic carelessness and weak plotting, and some reviewers saw a distinct decline from the preceding novels, with signs of exhaustion and less interesting subject matter. But several reviewers found the depiction of seventeenth-century Highland society fascinating. Ranald MacEagh and Annot Lyle attracted praise, though \"The Edinburgh Magazine\" found the former incongruously Byronic. Dalgetty was widely recognised as a great comic creation, but the severe \"Monthly Review\" found him uniform and always present, extravagant in character and disgraceful in his views. The battle scene came in for praise from more than one reviewer. Comparisons between \"Montrose\" and \"The Bride of Lammermoor\" resulted in no overall winner.\n\nBy far the most important source was a book with a very long title beginning \"Monro his Expedition\" by Robert Monro (1637) which was crucial for the development of Dugald Dalgetty. Also helpful for this character were \"Memoirs of his own Life and Times\" by Sir James Turner (which was not published till 1829, but Scott had access to the manuscript in 1819), and the same author's \"Pallas Armata\" (1683). For Montrose his main source was \"Memoirs of the Most Renowned James Graham, Marquis of Montrose\" by George Wishart (1647). The Ardvoirlich story Scott knew from oral tradition, but he was also indebted to its appearance in \"Clan-Alpin's Vow\" by Alexander Boswell of Auchinleck (1811). Dalgetty's name is derived from Captain Delgatty of Prestonpans, an acquaintance of Scott. Menteith is based upon John Graham, Lord Kilpoint (1613–1644). Evan Dhu represents Ewen Cameron of Lochiel (1629–1719).\n\nSeveral parts of the novel are influenced by traditions concerning the Stewarts of Ardvorlich, specifically James Stewart of Ardvorlich. The Ardvoirlich story Scott knew from oral tradition, but he was also indebted to its appearance in \"Clan-Alpin's Vow\" by Alexander Boswell of Auchinleck (1811). The novel's castle of Darnlinvarach is commonly said to represent Ardvorlich House. The latter actually appears in the novel as the castle of Ardenvohr, which may be somewhat based upon Dunstaffnage Castle. The following story of murder provided inspiration. In the Seventeenth Century it was the custom to provide hospitality to anyone who asked for food and shelter. If the guest was not a friend, they were still put up, but instead of a cooked meal were given cold meat (this is where the phrase \"given the cold shoulder\" comes from). In accordance with this custom, Lady Margaret Stewart at Ardvorlich, pregnant at the time, gave hospitality to some travelling MacGregors. However, they had just come from murdering her brother, John Drummond of Drummonderinoch, and while she was out of the room placed his severed head on a silver platter, and placed in his mouth some of the cold victuals she had served them. She was so distraught that she ran out to the hills and gave birth to James Stewart, later known as the \"Mad Major\". The Loch she gave birth by is now known as Lochan na Mna, the Loch of the Woman, on the side of Beinn Domhnuill.\n\nMajor James Stewart is one of the great historical characters of the Covenanting Wars and was the inspiration for Allan M'Aulay. This name is actually engraved on the foot of Major Stewart's gravestone in the Stewarts of Ardvorlich old kirk of Dundurn just outside the village of St Fillans on the shores of Loch Earn.\n\nP. D. Garside of the University of Edinburgh has argued that Scott intended the novel to highlight the changing nature of warfare in the seventeenth century, showing how the lack of a professional army caused the “civilized” society of the Lowlands to become “temporarily vulnerable to the ‘barbarous’” society of the Highlands. He cites Chapter 15 as particularly important in this regard.\n\n"}
{"id": "2059671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059671", "title": "Matthew 4:13", "text": "Matthew 4:13\n\nMatthew 4:13 is the thirteenth verse of the fourth chapter of the Gospel of Matthew in the New Testament. In the previous verse Jesus returned to Galilee after hearing of the arrest of John the Baptist. In this verse he leaves from Nazareth to Capernaum.\n\nIn the King James Version of the Bible the text reads:\n\nThe World English Bible translates the passage as:\n\nFor a collection of other versions see BibleHub Matthew 4:13\n\nIt is presumed that Jesus returned to Nazareth since described it as the town where he was raised. Matthew does not specify why Jesus leaves Nazareth, but it might be because of his rejection by the residents of that town as described in Luke 4. The original Greek of this verse has Nazareth spelt as \"Nazara.\" The only other place this spelling occurs in the New Testament is in . Hill notes that this has led scholars to believe that both Matthew and Luke were copying from another document, likely the hypothetical Q. Hill adds that this has also led some to believe that the entirety of the rejection scene was in Q but that the author of Matthew decided to leave it out.\n\nAt the time of Jesus, Capernaum was a sizeable town on the northwest shore of the Sea of Galilee, with a population of perhaps ten thousand. The description of the town's location comes straight from the quote from Isaiah that will be quoted in . Capernaum was located in Naphtali, but it was near Zebulun. The town is mentioned nowhere in the Old Testament, but does feature in all four Gospels. Matthew is the only source that has Jesus actually living in the town. The other three have him only preaching and meeting his disciples there. This also seems to conflict with the other gospels and the rest of Matthew, especially , which portray Jesus as an itinerant preacher with no permanent home. France feels that the town was less a home and more a base of operations to which Jesus and the disciples would occasionally return. Gundry rejects this view. To him \"dwelt\" unambiguously means that Jesus set up house in the town. Gundry feels that the author of Matthew embellished the accounts of Jesus' visits to Capernaum to better fit the quote from Isaiah. has Jesus speaking out against the town.\n\nMatthew does not mention why Jesus chose Capernaum to relocate to. The town was prosperous due to its location on the large lake and also its position on the Via Maris, the Damascus to Egypt trade route. France feels it was probably because the sizeable community offered more opportunities to preach. Albright and Mann support the theory that Jesus was already good friends with the disciples prior to recruiting them, and that Jesus specifically chose to move to Capernaum to be close to them.\n\nMatthew here, and throughout the Gospel, refers to the local body of water as a \"sea\". As it contains fresh water, by modern definitions it is more properly a lake. Luke refers to it as a lake, as does Josephus, but Mark and John join Matthew in calling it a sea. As a result, \"Sea of Galilee\" is still the standard modern name.\n"}
{"id": "2059673", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059673", "title": "The Reader", "text": "The Reader\n\nThe Reader () is a novel by German law professor and judge Bernhard Schlink, published in Germany in 1995 and in the United States in 1997. The story is a parable, dealing with the difficulties post-war German generations have had comprehending the Holocaust; Ruth Franklin writes that it was aimed specifically at the generation Bertolt Brecht called the \"Nachgeborenen\", those who came after. Like other novels in the genre of \"Vergangenheitsbewältigung\", the struggle to come to terms with the past, \"The Reader\" explores how the post-war generations should approach the generation that took part in, or witnessed, the atrocities. These are the questions at the heart of Holocaust literature in the late 20th and early 21st century, as the victims and witnesses die and living memory fades.\n\nSchlink's book was well received in his native country and elsewhere, winning several awards. \"Der Spiegel\" wrote that it was one of the greatest triumphs of German literature since Günter Grass's \"The Tin Drum\". It sold 500,000 copies in Germany and was listed 14th of the 100 favorite books of German readers in a television poll in 2007. It won the German Hans Fallada Prize in 1998, and became the first German book to top \"The New York Times\" bestselling books list. It has been translated into 45 different languages and has been included in the curricula of college-level courses in Holocaust literature and German language and German literature. It was adapted by David Hare into the 2008 film of the same name directed by Stephen Daldry; the film was nominated for five Academy Awards, with Kate Winslet winning for her portrayal of Hanna Schmitz.\n\n\nThe story is told in three parts by the main character, Michael Berg. Each part takes place in a different time period in the past. Part I begins in a West German city in 1958. After 15-year-old Michael becomes ill on his way home, 36-year-old tram conductor Hanna Schmitz notices him, cleans him up, and sees him safely home. He spends the next three months absent from school battling hepatitis. He visits Hanna to thank her for her help and realizes he is attracted to her. Embarrassed after she catches him watching her getting dressed, he runs away, but he returns days later. After she asks him to retrieve coal from her cellar, he is covered in coal dust; she watches him bathe and seduces him. He returns eagerly to her apartment on a regular basis, and they begin a heated affair. They develop a ritual of bathing and having sex, before which she frequently has him read aloud to her, especially classical literature, such as \"The Odyssey\" and Chekhov's \"The Lady with the Dog\". Both remain somewhat distant from each other emotionally, despite their physical closeness. Hanna is at times physically and verbally abusive to Michael. Months into the relationship, she suddenly leaves without a trace. The distance between them had been growing as Michael had been spending more time with his school friends; he feels guilty and believes it was something he did that caused her departure. The memory of her taints all his other relationships with women.\n\nSix years later, while attending law school, Michael is part of a group of students observing a war crimes trial. A group of middle-aged women who had served as SS guards at a satellite of Auschwitz in occupied Poland are being tried for allowing 300 Jewish women under their ostensible \"protection\" to die in a fire locked in a church that had been bombed during the evacuation of the camp. The incident was chronicled in a book written by one of the few survivors, who emigrated to the United States after the war; she is the main prosecution witness at the trial. \n\nMichael is stunned to see that Hanna is one of the defendants, sending him on a roller coaster of complex emotions. He feels guilty for having loved a remorseless criminal and at the same time is mystified at Hanna's willingness to accept full responsibility for supervising the other guards despite evidence proving otherwise. She is accused of writing the account of the fire. \n\nAt first she denies this, then in panic admits it in order not to have to provide a sample of her handwriting. Michael, horrified, realizes then that Hanna has a secret that she refuses to reveal at any cost—that she is illiterate. This explains many of Hanna's actions: her refusal of the promotion that would have removed her from the responsibility of supervising these women and also the panic she carried her entire life over being discovered. \n\nDuring the trial, it transpires that she took in the weak, sickly women and had them read to her before they were sent to the gas chambers. Michael is uncertain if she wanted to make their last days bearable or if she sent them to their death so they would not reveal her secret.\n\nShe is convicted and sentenced to life in prison while the other women receive only minor sentences. After much deliberation, he chooses not to reveal her secret, which could have saved her from her life sentence, as their relationship was a forbidden one because he was a minor at the time.\n\nYears have passed, Michael is divorced and has a daughter from his failed marriage. He is trying to come to terms with his feelings for Hanna and begins taping readings of books and sending them to her without any correspondence while she is in prison. Hanna begins to teach herself to read, and then write in a childlike way, by borrowing the books from the prison library and following the tapes along in the text. She writes to Michael, but he cannot bring himself to reply. After 18 years, Hanna is about to be released, so he agrees (after hesitation) to find her a place to stay and employment, visiting her in prison. On the day of her release in 1983, she commits suicide and Michael is heartbroken. Michael learns from the warden that she had been reading books by many prominent Holocaust survivors, such as Elie Wiesel, Primo Levi, Tadeusz Borowski, and histories of the camps. The warden, in her anger towards Michael for communicating with Hanna only by audio tapes, expresses Hanna's disappointment. Hanna left him an assignment: give all her money to the survivor of the church fire.\n\nWhile in the U.S., Michael travels to New York to visit the Jewish woman who was a witness at the trial, and who wrote the book about the winter death march from Auschwitz. She can see his terrible conflict of emotions and he finally tells of his youthful relationship with Hanna. The unspoken damage she left to the people around her hangs in the air. He reveals his short, cold marriage, and his distant relationship with his daughter. The woman understands, but nonetheless refuses to take the savings Hanna had asked Michael to convey to her, saying, \"Using it for something to do with the Holocaust would really seem like an absolution to me, and that is something I neither wish nor care to grant.\" She asks that he donate it as he sees fit; he chooses a Jewish charity for combating illiteracy, in Hanna's name. Having had a caddy stolen from her when she was a child in the camp, the woman does take the old tea caddy in which Hanna had kept her money and mementos. Returning to Germany, and with a letter of thanks for the donation made in Hanna's name, Michael visits Hanna's grave after ten years for the first and only time.\n\nSchlink's tone is sparse; he writes with an \"icy clarity that simultaneously reveals and conceals,\" as Ruth Franklin puts it, a style exemplified by the bluntness of chapter openings at key turns in the plot, such as the first sentence of chapter seven: \"The next night I fell in love with her.\" His \"clear and unadorned language enhances the authenticity of the text,\" according to S. Lillian Kremer, and the short chapters and streamlined plot recall detective novels and increase the realism. Schlink's main theme is how his generation, and indeed all generations after the Third Reich, have struggled to come to terms with the crimes of the Nazis: \"the past which brands us and with which we must live.\" For his cohorts, there was the unique position of being blameless and the sense of duty to call to account their parents' generation:\n\nBut while he would like it to be as simple as that, his experience with Hanna complicates matters:\n\nHanna and Michael's asymmetrical relationship enacts, in microcosm, the \"pas de deux\" of older and younger Germans in the postwar years: Michael concludes that \"the pain I went through because of my love for Hanna was, in a way, the fate of my generation, a German fate.\" This idea plays itself out in the scene where the student Michael hitchhikes to the Natzweiler-Struthof concentration camp site during the trial, to get what he hopes will be some sense of the place. The driver who picks him up is an older man who questions him closely about what he believes motivated those who carried out the killings, then offers an answer of his own:\n\nAfter the man tells an anecdote about a photograph of Jews being shot in Russia, one that he supposedly saw, but which showed an unusual level of insight into what a Nazi officer might have been thinking, Michael suspects him of being that officer and confronts him. The man stops the car and asks him to leave.\n\nGermany had the highest literacy rate in Europe; Franklin suggests that Hanna's illiteracy represented the ignorance that allowed ordinary people to commit atrocities. Nicholas Wroe, in the \"Guardian\", likewise writes of the relationship between Hanna's illiteracy and the Third Reich's \"moral illiteracy,\" and Ron Rosenbaum of \"Slate\" says that Hanna is \"a stand-in for the German people and their supposed inability to 'read' the signs that mass murder was being done in their name, by their fellow citizens.\" Michael's relationship with Hanna, partly erotic and partly maternal, stands for the ambivalent relationship of present-day Germany and its Nazi past: the past is \"mother\" of Michael's generation, and he eventually finds out, like other Germans of his generation, that his \"parents\" were guilty. \"The paralyzing shame, the psychic numbing, the moral failures of the 'lucky late-born' are the novel's central focus,\" writes Suzanne Ruta in the \"New York Times\". Only through his relationship with Hanna can Michael get well; Franklin interprets that to mean that \"postwar Germany is sick, and it can begin to heal only through its encounter with the Nazi past.\" Richard Bernstein of the \"New York Times\" also notes that \"In some sense, perhaps, Hanna can be seen to stand in for the larger German quandary of remembrance and atonement,\" but prefers not to read the novel as an allegory. That said, the novel is about Michael, not Hanna; the original German title, \"Der Vorleser\", specifically indicates one who reads aloud, as Michael does for Hanna.\n\n\"The Reader\" abounds with references to representations of the Holocaust, both external and internal to Michael's narrative, some real and some invented by Schlink. Of the latter, the most important is the book by the death-march survivor that constitutes the basis of the case against Hanna. It is summarized at some length and even briefly quoted, although its title is never given. Michael must read it in English since its German translation has not yet been published: \"(It was) an unfamiliar and laborious exercise at the time. And as always, the alien language, unmastered and struggled over, created a strange concatenation of distance and immediacy.\" On a second reading in later life, he says, \"it is the book that creates distance.\" For Michael, written media alone cannot convey a full impression of the Holocaust: the victims are not sympathetic, and the oppressors are too faceless to be judged. He cannot muster up the empathy to \"make the experience part of his internal life,\" according to Froma Zeitlin. Hanna, however, has the opposite experience upon reading books by Holocaust survivors. She tells Michael:\n\nI always had the feeling that no one understood me anyway, that no one knew who I was and what made me do this or that. And you know, when no one understands you, no one can call you to account. Not even the court could call me to account. But the dead can. They understand. They don't even have to have been there, but if they do, they understand even better. Here in prison they were with me a lot. They came every night, whether I wanted them to or not. Before the trial I could still chase them away when they wanted to come.\n\nWhen she breaks with German practice and asks the judge at her trial \"What would you have done?\" about whether she should have left her job at Siemens and taken the guard position, her question indicates that she does not know that she could have acted differently, and her statement that there was \"no alternative\" claims a lack of moral responsibility. As a result of her shame at being illiterate, she has not only let the bulk of the crime be pinned on her, she has let those with a greater share of responsibility escape full accountability. Franklin writes that this is the moral center of the novel—that Hanna, as Michael puts it, chooses exposure as a criminal over exposure as an illiterate—and in Franklin's view the novel cannot recover from the weakness of this position. Franklin regards it not only as implausible, but the implication that Hanna chose the job and acted as she did because of her illiteracy appears intended to exonerate her. Her Nazism was accidental, and Franklin writes that Schlink offers no guidance about how to punish a brutality of convenience, rather than of ideology.\n\nMichael is aware that all his attempts to visualize what Hanna might have been like back then, what happened, are colored by what he has read and seen in movies. He feels a difficult identification with the victims when he learns that Hanna often picked one prisoner to read to her, as she chose him later on, only to send that girl to Auschwitz and the gas chamber after several months. Did she do it to make the last months of the condemned more bearable? Or to keep her secret safe? Michael's inability to both condemn and understand springs from this. He asks himself and the reader:\n\nWhat should our second generation have done, what should it do with the knowledge of the horrors of the extermination of the Jews? We should not believe we can comprehend the incomprehensible, we may not compare the incomparable, we may not inquire because to make the horrors an object of inquiry is to make the horrors an object of discussion, even if the horrors themselves are not questioned, instead of accepting them as something in the face of which we can only fall silent in revulsion, shame and guilt. Should we only fall silent in revulsion, shame and guilt? To what purpose?\n\nThe books read in the novel, both by Michael to Hanna and by Hanna herself, are significant. Michael selects texts from the Enlightenment, \"with its emphasis on moral and ethical absolutes,\" and German classics by which means he tries to reclaim German heritage. The texts include Friedrich Schiller's \"Intrigue and Love\" and Gotthold Lessing's \"Emilia Galotti\".\n\nKatharina Hall writes that the novel itself relies on intertextual knowledge: it \"reworks the ‘Väterliteratur’ model of the 1970s and 1980s,\" which depicts the relationship between the first and second generations; here, however, the relationship is sexual rather than parent-child. She also notes the invoking of tropes present in mass-market romance fiction, though the gender roles are inverted.\n\n\"The Reader\" sold 500,000 copies in Germany. It received several literary awards and many favorable reviews. In 2004, when the television network ZDF published a list of the 100 favorite books of German readers, it was 14th, the second-highest ranking for any contemporary German novel on the list. Critic Rainer Moritz of \"Die Welt\" wrote that it took \"the artistic contrast between private and public to the absurd.\" Werner Fuld wrote in \"Focus\" that \"one must not let great themes roll away, when one can truly write about them.\" In 1998 \"The Reader\" was awarded the Hans Fallada Prize, a German literary award.\n\nAs of 2002 the novel had been translated into 25 languages. Writing in \"The New York Times\", Richard Bernstein called it \"arresting, philosophically elegant, (and) morally complex.\" While finding the ending too abrupt Suzanne Ruta said in the \"New York Times Book Review\" that \"daring fusion of 19th-century post-romantic, post-fairy-tale models with the awful history of the 20th century makes for a moving, suggestive and ultimately hopeful work.\" It went on to sell two million copies in the United States (many of them after it was featured in \"Oprah's Book Club\" in 1999) 200,000 copies in the UK, 100,000 in France, and in South Africa it was awarded the 1999 Boeke Prize.\n\nSchlink's problematic approach toward Hanna's culpability in the Final Solution has been a frequent complaint about the book. Early on he was accused of revising or falsifying history. In the \"Süddeutsche Zeitung\", Jeremy Adler accused him of \"cultural pornography\" and said the novel simplifies history and compels its readers to identify with the perpetrators. In the English-speaking world, Frederic Raphael wrote that no one could recommend the book \"without having a tin ear for fiction and a blind eye for evil.\" Ron Rosenbaum, criticizing the film adaptation of \"The Reader\", wrote that even if Germans like Hanna were metaphorically \"illiterate\", \"they could have heard it from Hitler's mouth in his infamous 1939 radio broadcast to Germany and the world, threatening extermination of the Jews if war started. You had to be deaf, dumb, and blind, not merely illiterate… You'd have to be exceedingly stupid.\" (This refers to the January 30, 1939 statement to the Reichstag, later deliberately misdated to 1 September 1939)\n\nCynthia Ozick in \"Commentary Magazine\" called it a \"product, conscious or not, of a desire to divert (attention) from the culpability of a normally educated population in a nation famed for \"Kultur\".\" Ozick's reading of the novel was challenged by Richard H. Weisberg, who highlighted a passage in the novel where Hanna strikes Michael repeatedly with a leather strap drawing blood and splitting his lip. In Weisberg's view, Schlink has Hanna revert to concentration-camp mode, the split lip reminding us of the bloodletting of millions. Jeffrey I. Roth replied that Ozick had misread the novel, confusing the perspective of the immature and impressionable narrator, Michael Berg, who loves Hanna and cannot condemn her entirely, with the point of view of the author, Bernhard Schlink, who writes of Hanna, \"That woman was truly brutal.\" Roth found in Hanna an unsympathetic character who behaves brutally and never fully accepts her criminal responsibility, making Ozick's suggestion, that Schlink wants us to sympathize with Hanna and by extension her Nazi cohorts, implausible.\n\nAs critics of \"The Reader\" argued increasingly on historical grounds, pointing out that everybody in Germany could and should have known about Hitler's intentions towards the Jews, there has not been a great deal of discussion about the character \"Hanna\" having been born not in Germany proper, but in the City of Hermannstadt (modern-day Sibiu), a long-standing centre of German culture in Transylvania, Romania. The first study on the reasons Germans from Transylvania entered the SS appeared only in 2007, twelve years after the novel was published; in general, discussions on \"The Reader\" have solidly placed Hanna in the context of Germany. The study paints a historical picture as complex as Schlink's novel.\n\nSchlink wrote that \"in Israel and New York the older generation liked the book,\" but those of his own generation were more likely to criticize Michael (and his) inability to fully condemn Hanna. He added, \"I've heard that criticism several times but never from the older generation, people who have lived through it.\"\n\nThe film version, adapted by David Hare and directed by Stephen Daldry, was released in December 2008. Kate Winslet played Hanna, with David Kross as the young Michael and Ralph Fiennes as the older man. Bruno Ganz and Lena Olin played supporting roles. It was nominated for five Academy Awards including Best Picture. Winslet won the Oscar for leading actress.\n\n"}
{"id": "2059674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059674", "title": "The Sea of Fertility", "text": "The Sea of Fertility\n\nThe main timeline of the story stretches from 1912 to 1975. The viewpoint of all four books is that of Shigekuni Honda, a law student in \"Spring Snow\" who eventually becomes a wealthy retired judge in \"The Decay of the Angel\". Each of the novels depicts what Honda comes to believe are successive reincarnations of his schoolfriend Kiyoaki Matsugae, and Honda's attempts to save them from the early deaths to which they seem to be condemned by karma. This results in both personal and professional embarrassment for Honda, and eventually destroys him.\n\nThe friend's successive reincarnations are:\n\nOther characters who appear in more than one book include Satoko Ayakura (Kiyoaki's lover), Tadeshina (Satoko's maid), Imperial Prince Toin, Shigeyuki Iinuma (Kiyoaki's servant and Isao's father), Keiko Hisamatsu, and Rié (Honda's wife).\n\nAlthough \"The Temple of Dawn\" contains lengthy arguments in favour of the theory of reincarnation, Mishima's biographers note that he did not believe in it himself. An earlier work of about the same length, \"Kyoko's House\", had been spurned by critics; it has been conjectured that he embarked on \"The Sea of Fertility\" in defiant response. It expresses many of Mishima's deepest-held convictions about the nature and purposes of human life, and the last book is thought to encapsulate an (extremely negative) personal assessment of himself and his own legacy.\n\nThe tetralogy was described by Paul Theroux as \"the most complete vision we have of Japan in the twentieth century\". Although the first book is a loving recreation of Japan in the brief Taishō period, and is well-grounded in its time and place, references to current affairs are generally tangential to what is later to become Honda's obsessive quest to understand the workings of individual fate and to save his friend. \n\nThe literary historian Marleigh Ryan, however, was less sympathetic. In 1974, she wrote, \"The outstanding weakness of this, the final novelistic effort of Mishima Yukio—and indeed the major failing of the bulk of his work—is its striking inability to rise above the emotional and intellectual limitations of its author.\"\n"}
{"id": "2059679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059679", "title": "Cerlalc", "text": "Cerlalc\n\nThe Regional Center for the Promotion of Books in Latin America and Caribbean (CERLALC) (Spanish: \"Centro Regional para el Fomento del Libro en América Latina y el Caribe\", ) is an intergovernmental organization sponsored by UNESCO. The organization's headquarters are located in Bogotá, Colombia. Its main goal is to foster favorable conditions for the development of reading communities in Latin America and the Caribbean.\n\nCERLALC has 21 member states and the organization aims its activities toward book production and distribution; the promotion of reading and writing, the training of the actors of the book-publishing process and the stimulation and protection of intellectual creation. In this regard, it provides technical assistance in the formulation of public policies, generates knowledge, disseminates specialized information, develops and promotes training processes and promotes spaces for dialogue and cooperation.\n\nThe establishment of CERLALC was part of UNESCO’s program for the promotion of books, which took place during UNESCO’s 14th general conference in Paris, in 1966. The original project included the creation of four centres for the promotion of book production: Latin America, Asia, Africa and the Arab States. The result of this conference was the beginning of one of the most successful experiences in regional integration projects around the book.\n\nOn September 7, 1967, the Colombian government requested UNESCO that the multilateral approaches for book promotion be extended to Latin America in the Program and Budget for the years 1969-1970. The request included the creation of a regional centre for the promotion of books in Latin America as a focal point for efforts aimed at promoting the free circulation and growth of regional book production and distribution.\n\nThrough Act 0253 of February 20, 1970, the Colombian government gave authorization to four local organizations to create the first board of directors of the centre. These organizations were Instituto Caro y Cuervo, Instituto Colombiano de Cultura, Colcultura , Instituto Colombiano para el Fomento de la Educación Superior, ICFES and Servicio Nacional de Aprendizaje, SENA. The national organization was named Centro Regional para el Fomento del libro en América Latina, CERLAL. (The second “C” letter was added at a later date). The Ministers of Education and Foreign Affairs, along with the National Planning Department of Colombia, were also part of this board.\n\nOn March 3, 1970, the founding act was signed, while decree 2290 established the bylaws of CERLALC as a national organism. Following this, On April 23, 1971, in Bogotá, the Colombian government and UNESCO signed an international cooperation agreement whereby Colombia committed to transforming the organization created in 1970 into a Regional Centre. This instrument allowed the addition of all Spanish-speaking countries. The Colombian congress gave its approval through Law 27 of 1971. Gradually, in the first four years, several countries of the region joint the regional project. These active countries members have been: Argentina, Bolivia, Brasil, Costa Rica, Chile, Ecuador, Panamá, Paraguay, República Dominicana, Uruguay and Venezuela.\n\nThe Agreement of International Cooperation between UNESCO and the Colombian government that governs until today, was signed in Paris on August 1, 1984 and ratified in Colombia by Law 65 of November 20, 1986. In this international agreement, the reach of the centre was extended to other geographic and linguistic areas, including the Caribbean region (Hence the second “C” letter) and to the countries of the Lusitanian Hispanic linguistic unit, even those outside geographical Latin America.\n\n\nThe CERLALC is composed by a council. This superior organism is in charge to approve all of the political guidelines which rule the CERLALC. The council meeting is biennial and it is composed (made-up) by:\n\n\nThe chair of the Council is under the rule of Mrs Patricia Balbuena, Culture Minister of Perú.\n\nThere is also an Executive Committee which is integrated by a deputy of six countries from the 21 current countries members. They are chosen one by a council and they are elected for a biennial period, In addition to this, there is a (delegate) agent from the UNESCO’S director and the representatives of the ministry of Foreign affairs and Education from Colombia.\n\nAmong its main functions are: Approval of the technical guidelines and the current budget of the organization as well as the control over the general functionality of the CERLALC and the execution of the programs according to the basic guidelines and parameters embraced by the main Council.\n\nThis administrative organ meets annually and the executive committee consists of:\n\n\nThe presidency of the executive committee its under El Salvador's control.\n\nTo fulfil its main statements, CERLALC leads and supports local and regional actions in the following plans of action.\n\n\nCERLALC's first headquarters was granted by Colombia's Ministry of Education. It was located in the historical center of Bogotá. Due to staff extension, a new headquarters was needed soon after. That is why in 1973, the CERLALC acquired its new and current main office.\n\n"}
{"id": "2059682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059682", "title": "Ed Joyce", "text": "Ed Joyce\n\nEdmund Christopher Joyce (born 22 September 1978) is a former Irish cricketer who played for both the Ireland and England national cricket teams. After beginning his career with Middlesex, he moved to Sussex in 2009, before returning to Ireland to play for Leinster Lightning in the fledgling first-class competition, the Irish Inter-Provincial Championship. A left-handed batsman and occasional right-arm bowler of medium pace, Joyce is widely regarded as one of the best cricketers produced by Ireland.\n\nAfter qualifying to play for England, Joyce was a member of the squad in the 2006–07 Ashes series and 2007 World Cup. Since dropping down the pecking order for selection with England, Joyce got special dispensation from the International Cricket Council (ICC) to play for Ireland in the 2011 World Cup.\n\nHe was one of the eleven cricketers to play in Ireland's first ever Test match, against Pakistan. On 24 May 2018, he announced his retirement from all professional cricket. In June 2019, Joyce was appointed as the interim head coach of the Ireland women's cricket team.\n\nOne of nine siblings, Joyce was born in Dublin, educated at St. Patrick's Primary School, Bray, County Wicklow and at Presentation College, Bray, and studied economics at Trinity College, Dublin.\n\nJoyce made his Middlesex debut in 1999 and won the NBC Denis Compton Award in 2000. He has been a regular member of the first team since 2002, in which year he averaged 51 and scored four hundreds. Joyce replaced Owais Shah as acting county captain midway through the 2004 season, but was not appointed for the 2005 season.\n\nJoyce captained the Middlesex team to victory in the 2008 Twenty20 Cup. After this competition, the captaincy was handed to Shaun Udal, and later it became apparent that the player's future at Middlesex was uncertain as his current contract was expiring and he had not agreed to sign an extension.\n\nIt was announced on 3 November 2008 that Joyce would be leaving Middlesex to play for Sussex. Vinny Codrington, Middlesex's chief executive, said \"[Joyce] felt he needed a fresh challenge. He felt moving counties would help him rediscover the form that got him into the England side a couple of years ago... He was always one of the first names on the team-sheet and he has been outstanding and undoubtedly we're going to miss him\". Despite his imminent departure, Middlesex included Joyce in their squad for the Stanford Super Series and the eventually-cancelled Twenty20 Champions League as a gesture of gratitude for his influence in winning the Twenty20 Cup.\n\nA strong first season for Sussex, with three centuries, ensured Joyce remained on the fringes of England selection, being named in the provisional England squad for the 2009 ICC Champions Trophy and in November 2009, he signed a new three-year contract with the county.\n\nJoyce suffered a unique dismissal in a 2009 Championship game against Warwickshire. He swept a ball from Ant Botha straight into short-leg fielder Jonathan Trott's pocket. Trott had turned his back and leapt out of the way of the ball; he was stunned to find the ball lodged in his right pocket. He became Sussex captain on 31 July 2012, succeeding Michael Yardy.\n\nIn October 2015, Joyce announced he would step down as captain of the Sussex team following their relegation from the County Championship Division One.\n\nJoyce played a number of matches for Ireland in the ICC Trophy, averaging over 70 in the competition, but in July 2005 qualified to play for England by virtue of his residency there. In October 2005, Joyce was selected for the England cricket academy and gained a spot in the England \"A\" squad to tour the West Indies in Spring 2006. In June 2006 he was selected in the England One Day International (ODI) squad for the series with Sri Lanka.\n\nHe made his England ODI debut against Ireland in Stormont Park, Belfast in June 2006. The Irish team included his younger brother, Dominick. Two days later, he represented England in his first Twenty20 International, but sprained his ankle and was out injured for four weeks. He made his return for Middlesex at Edgbaston on 14 July 2006, in the County Championship against Warwickshire, scoring a career-best 211 in the first innings.\n\nOn 15 November 2006, Joyce was selected by England's chairman of selectors, David Graveney, to be in the Test squad for the 2006/2007 Ashes series, in place of Marcus Trescothick, who withdrew, suffering from a stress-related illness. This was a somewhat controversial decision as he was given preference over the more experienced Owais Shah and Robert Key.\n\nAlthough he was not chosen for any of the Tests against Australia he was chosen to play in the subsequent One-day International series following an injury to Kevin Pietersen. He totalled 288 runs in nine matches at an average of 32.00, including his maiden half-century in the losing run-chase against New Zealand at Perth.\n\nHowever, the highlight of the series for Joyce was the victory over Australia at the SCG on 2 February 2007. Opening the innings, Joyce scored a match-winning 107 from 142 balls, helping England amass 292–7, and became the first English cricketer to score a One Day International century away from home in nineteen matches.\n\nJoyce was named Man of the Match for his performance, and the innings helped him earn a place in the squad for the World Cup in the West Indies. During the 2007 World Cup, Joyce made fifties against the non-Test nations of Canada and Kenya, but made a duck against New Zealand in the first group game and 1 against his native Ireland as well as dropping a catch in the first Super Eight game.\n\nWhile he was scoring heavily for Sussex in 2009, Joyce harboured hopes of breaking back into the England team. However, he was overlooked and by March 2010 was considering representing Ireland again. Joyce explained his choice to return to Irish colours:\n\nUnder normal circumstances it takes four years to qualify to play for a country; having played for England at the 2007 World Cup in April 2007, Joyce was set to miss playing for Ireland in the 2011 tournament, taking place in February.\n\nIn October it was announced that Joyce and former New Zealand international Hamish Marshall would tour India with Ireland; it was hoped that it would assist their integration into the team in the event the ICC allowed them to play for Ireland in ODIs.\n\nIn November 2010, the ICC announced that Joyce's qualification period would be shortened by the ICC and that he would be allowed to play for Ireland at the World Cup, and he was subsequently selected in Ireland's 15-man squad for the tournament.\n\nIn May 2015 Joyce and fellow cricketer Tim Murtagh announced their retirement from T20 cricket (although Murtagh subsequently reversed his decision to retire from the format).\n\nIn June 2015 Joyce scored 231 runs in the first innings against the United Arab Emirates in the 2015–17 ICC Intercontinental Cup at Malahide. It was the highest by an Ireland player in multi-day cricket and was the first double century scored by an Irish player on home soil.\n\nIn May 2018, he was named in a fourteen-man squad for Ireland's first ever Test match, which was played against Pakistan later the same month. He made his Test debut for Ireland on 11 May 2018. At 39 years and 231 days he was the oldest Test debutant this century, and the oldest since Omar Henry who was 40 years and 215 days when South Africa resumed Test cricket after their imposed isolationism due to apartheid.\n\nJoyce faced the first delivery and scored the first run for Ireland in Test cricket. He also became the first batsman to be dismissed for Ireland, when he was out lbw, bowled by Mohammad Abbas. A week after the Test match, he retired from all forms of cricket.\n\nEd Joyce is one of nine siblings, all of whom began their cricketing lives at Bray Cricket Club, now called North Wicklow, five of the Joyce siblings have represented Ireland at cricket. Brothers Gus and Dominick played for the Irish men's team (the latter in three ODI matches), while twin sisters, Isobel and Cecelia, have represented the Irish women for the past decade.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2059684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059684", "title": "Wang Yeping", "text": "Wang Yeping\n\nWang Yeping (, born February 12, 1928) is the wife of Jiang Zemin, former General Secretary of the Communist Party of China (\"de facto\" paramount leader) and President of the People's Republic of China (\"de jure\" head of state), and is a native of Yangzhou, Jiangsu.\n\nWang Yeping was born February 12, 1928 in Yangzhou and grew up in Shanghai. Wang Yeping graduated from Shanghai Foreign Language Institute and majored in foreign languages.\n\nTogether they have two sons, Jiang Mianheng born in 1951 and Jiang Miankang born in 1956. \n"}
{"id": "2059694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059694", "title": "Wahroonga railway station", "text": "Wahroonga railway station\n\nWahroonga railway station is a heritage-listed railway station located on the North Shore line, serving the Sydney suburb of Wahroonga. The station is located in the Ku-ring-gai Council local government area of New South Wales, Australia. It is served by Sydney Trains T1 North Shore line services. It was built from 1890 to 1910 by E. Pritchard & Co., contractor (first 1890 line). It is also known as Wahroonga Railway Station group and Pearce's Corner; Noonan's Platform. The property is owned by RailCorp (State Government). It was added to the New South Wales State Heritage Register on 2 April 1999.\n\nThe meaning of \"Wahroonga\" - an Aboriginal word - is \"our home\".\n\nGeorge Caley (1770-1829) a botanist who had been sent to the colony in 1795 by Sir Joseph Banks from London to collect flora specimens for Kew Gardens, was one of the first white men to explore this bushland area. In 1805 he walked along a cattle path on the ridge towards Fox Valley, near the 640 acres that were later granted to Thomas Hyndes by Governor Darling (1825–31). The north-western part of the grant, known later as Pearce's Corner extended past the present Sydney Adventist Hospital (today this area marks the boundary of three suburbs: Normanhurst, Waitara and Wahroonga) - and honours an early settler whose name was Aaron Pierce. He arrived with his wife in 1811, received a conditional pardon and worked as a timber cutter along the ridge from Kissing Point to the present Pacific Highway (formerly Lane Cove Road). Three tracks converged at this point and Pierce built a hut to house his family and set out an orchard. He was said to reside there by 1831, and the corner was then known as Pierce's Corner). A village developed on the opposite corner (Pearce's Corner Township, later renamed Normanhurst)) around St. Paul's Church (which today is in Wahroonga).\n\nOn Hyndes' death the grant was bought by John Brown and became known as Brown's Paddock. When he died in 1881, it was resurveyed and the larger portion became Fox Ground Estate, purchased by a Francis Gerard.\n\nThe harbour barrier delayed the suburbanisation of the Ku-ring-gai district and in the early 1880s the tiny settlement was judged too small to warrant a railway line. Access to Milsons Point remained difficult although a coach service plied that route from 1881 to 1887. By 1885 it was also possible to travel to Sydney via the five bridges road crossing the water at Fig Tree, Gladesville, Iron Cove, Glebe Island and Pyrmont.\n\nThe post office opened on 15 October 1896. In 1898 Abbotsleigh School for girls moved to Wahroonga. In 1899 when only 3 houses stood in Fox Valley Road, Wahroonga, the Seventh-Day Adventists purchased land there and erected a large building by 1903. This evolved into \"The San\" or Sanitarium hospital.\n\nDuring the interwar years of 1921 to 1933, the population increased by 45 per cent from 19,209 to 27,931 with a 68 per cent rise in the number of occupied dwellings, the proportion of brick to weatherboard being 5:1. The same sort of increase occurred from 1933 to 1947 when a further 43 per cent of people moved into the district bringing the total population to 39,874 and adding 3,564 houses. Even greater restriction on the use of timber and fibro occurred in this period so that 3,182 of these were brick. Clearly, Ku-ring-gai suffered less in the 1930s depression than other municipalities where development was much slower. Its people also encountered less unemployment - only slightly behind Vaucluse with 16 per cent unemployed, Ku-ring-gai and Mosman registered 18 per cent unemployed in 1933 - although the proportion of owner occupation did fall to 68 per cent.\n\nThe first public school in Wahroonga opened in January 1944.\n\nRailway and tramway plans for the area were discussed by the authorities in the 1880s.\n\nWahroonga station opened on 1 January 1890 as Pearce's Corner when the North Shore line opened from Hornsby to St Leonards. It was renamed Wahroonga on 30 August 1890.\n\nThe single-track North Shore railway line that went from Hornsby to St Leonards in 1890 finally reached Milsons Point in 1893. The North Shore Ferry Company had been carrying passengers from Milsons Point to Circular Quay since the 1860s and by the 1890s around 5 million people crossed the harbour by this means every year. Offering suburban subdivisions along the railway line in advance of the stations, speculators developed Ku-ring-gai well before completion of the North Shore Bridge in 1932 set off another flurry of real estate promotion. Ku-ring-gai grew slowly in the 19th century, its population being 4,000 by 1901. However, over the next two decades its population quadrupled. By this time, with its large residences in beautiful, leafy surrounds, it had changed from a district with a dubious reputation to one that attracted people of high socio-economic status, 73 per cent of whom were home owners.\n\nWhen the railway line came through the North Shore from St. Leonards to Hornsby, a station opened in this area on 1 January 1890 and was called Pearce's Corner. The construction name had been Noonan's Platform because the property belonging to Patrick Noonan came within the new railway's boundary. The name was changed to Wahroonga on 30 August 1890. The section between Hornsby and St. Leonards was built by E. Pritchard & Co. contractor.\n\nA short brick faced platform and small timber building stood on the south side of the single line. This was south of a level crossing with then Noonan's Road, later renamed Coonanbarra Road. The station name was changed to Wahroonga on 30 October 1890.\n\n24 October 1901 Pymble News reported \"trees have been planted on the sides of the station. This work will add immeasurably to the attractions of Wahroonga in the eyes of visitors to the Railway Station.\". These trees were Californian desert fan palms (Washingtonia robusta).\n\nThe present station building at Wahroonga, together with the road bridge over the line and pedestrian steps at Redleaf Avenue was provided about 1906 in anticipation of the double line. A duplicated line was completed in May 1909 and the 12 mile section between Hornsby and Milson's Point was opened in early 1910. Island platforms were part of the duplication arrangements. The booking/station master's office is located in the platform building at the Sydney end adjacent to two ticket issuing windows. The pedestrian footbridge at Coonanbarra Road was built at this time when the level crossing was closed.\n\nA new road overbridge was built on the southern end of the platform and this replaced the level crossing at the north of the station. Access to the new island platform was via a set of steps from the new overbridge. Train services continued to be steam-hauled on this line until c.1927 when alterations allowed for electrification of the line between Milson's Point and Hornsby. Automatic colour light signalling was installed between Lindfield and Hornsby (including Wahroonga) on 8 May 1928. Steam trains were withdrawn in July 1928. When the Sydney Harbour Bridge was opened on 20 March 1932, the North Shore train services connected with the rest of the Sydney suburban railway system.\n\nThe 1926 Wahroonga Progress Association's Annual Report stated the railway station garden \"for 9 years in succession, with one exception, has gained first prize in the competition for privately maintained railway station gardens\".\n\nA pair of brick entrance piers were built at the foot of the pedestrian steps with timber covering in the mid-1930s, similar to the set at Killara, since demolished.\n\nPossibly in the 1920s or 1930s Hill's fig trees (Ficus microcarpa var. Hillii) were planted on the island platform, replacing the earlier fan palm trees. Appropriate shrubs and trees have been planted in the centre line of the platform on both sides of the centrally located building since its earliest days. These are well cared for and add to the stylish setting of the station.\n\nIn early years, Old Milson's Point, Bay Road, St. Leonards, Chatswood, Lindfield, Gordon, Pymble, Turramurra, Wahroonga and Hornsby Stations had goods yards. All but St. Leonards, Chatswood and Hornsby yards had disappeared by the mid-twentieth century, and the latter three did not survive into the late twentieth century. Grounds on the east and west of the tracks are also densely planted with a mixture of native and exotic trees and shrubs. These are maintained by Hornsby Shire Council. In 2009 the Hill's fig trees on the platform were replaced with blue berry ash (Elaeocarpus reticulatus) as the figs' roots were lifting pavement and causing trip and risk hazards. The new trees have a more upright, narrow habit which should suit the constricted corridor between the railway overhead power lines. The platform upgrade include relocation of seats and re-paving of the platform surface.\n\nWahroonga Station is the highest on the north shore railway line at . What is significant about the route is the fact that the topography is steep, rising from near sea level at Kirribilli and Lavender Bay.\n\nIt is set in a cutting with elevated road and pedestrian bridges over this, connecting Wahroonga to its east and west. The main shopping centre is on its eastern side, flanked by Redleaf Park. The station and its surroundings are a superb example of the early 1900s Sydney suburban railway station architecture and design, set among gardens lovingly tended by the Ku-ring-gai Council and local residents. Until the time of the listing, (1999) the whole of the station platform, building, steps and overhead bridge were virtually unchanged from the time each unit was built.\n\nThe landscape includes:\n\nTrees (five Hill's fig trees (Ficus microcarpa var.'Hillii') and some shrubs are planted on the island platform give added importance to the pleasant visual appearance. These have been well cared for by State Rail and council staff. Their presence is unique on this line and unusual in a railway setting due to the difficulty in easy maintenance where road access is not available. They date to the 1910s as evidenced in photographs.\n\nAppropriate shrubs and trees have been planted in the centre line of the platform on both sides of the centrally located building since its earliest days. These are well cared for and add to the stylish setting of the station.\n\nGrounds on the east and west of the tracks are also densely planted with a mixture of native and exotic trees and shrubs. These are maintained by Ku-Ring-Gai Shire Council. There is a dense mixed planting on the eastern side's grounds. This includes the unusual large shrub, horned holly (Ilex cornuta), native cypress/Port Jackson pine (Callitris columellaris), strawberry tree (Arbutus unedo), a rare rainforest tree, the Davidson plum (Davidsonia pruriens), Camellia japonica cv.s and laurustinus (Viburnum tinus). The western side grounds plantings include a tall swamp cypress (Taxodium distichum) and a hoop pine (\"Araucaria cunninghamii\").\n\nstation building - type 11, initial island/side building brick, 1906\n\n\nThe station building is representative of a high quality of railway station building which was to be found elsewhere on the north shore railway line, but the environment at Wahroonga places it in a much higher category due to the complementary gardens and trees.\n\nA footbridge across the northern end of the platform (but giving no access to it) leading to and from both sides of the Coonanbarra Road, is unusual for the Sydney suburban area. Plans have been made to construct a set of access stairs from this bridge to the platform.\n\nThe overbridge carrying Redleaf Avenue over the line at the southern end consists of concrete arches over each railway track supported by brick piers carrying the road over the railway line and brick abutments on the footpaths above and early example of this construction in Sydney.\n\nThe station complements the small shopping centre and office buildings in the surrounding streets on the southern side of the line. Two ticket collecting booths in brick stand at the foot of the Redleaf Avenue stairs dating from the 1930s and are unusual to the north shore line.\n\nAs at 14 January 2009, until the time of the listing, the whole of the station platform, building, steps and overhead bridge were virtually unchanged from the time each unit was built.\n\nThe spacing of the new trees respects a range of issues including avoiding disturbed sub-platform areas. In early years, Old Milson's Point, Bay Road, St. Leonards, Chatswood, Lindfield, Gordon, Pymble, Turramurra, Wahroonga and Hornsby Stations had goods yards. All but St. Leonards, Chatswood and Hornsby yards had disappeared by the mid-twentieth century, and the latter three did not survive into the late twentieth century.\n\n\nTransdev NSW operates one route to and from Wahroonga station:\n\nWahroonga station is served by one NightRide route:\n\nAs at 29 May 2008, Wahroonga station is one of the best island platform buildings on the north shore line. As a group they provide a consistent style of high significance as all are in excellent condition, and display a unity of development rarely seen on the railway system. They are also of interest as they are all island platform structures except for the terminus points such as Lindfield and Gordon where and additional platform is provided. This station contributes an important part as a major transport outlet for residents. It is sited in a garden setting which was typical of many stations throughout the State and many of which now have largely been removed. This gives the site added significance.\n\nWahroonga railway station was listed on the New South Wales State Heritage Register on 2 April 1999 having satisfied the following criteria.\n\nThe place possesses uncommon, rare or endangered aspects of the cultural or natural history of New South Wales.\n\nThis item is assessed as historically rare. This item is assessed as arch. rare. This item is assessed as socially rare.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2059696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059696", "title": "Karen Anderson (writer)", "text": "Karen Anderson (writer)\n\nKaren Anderson (born June Millichamp Kruse ; September 16, 1932 – March 17, 2018) was the wife and sometime co-author of Poul Anderson and mother-in-law of writer Greg Bear. She also saw published fiction she wrote by herself, and essays solo and in collaboration with her husband and others.\n\nAnderson was born June Millichamp Kruse in Erlanger, Kentucky, a suburb of Cincinnati, Ohio. She is noted as the first person to use the term \"filk music\" in print. \n\nShe wrote the first published science fiction haiku (or scifaiku), \"Six Haiku\" (\"The Magazine of Fantasy and Science Fiction\", July 1962). She also probably coined the term \"sophont\" to describe the general class of sapient beings.\n\nAs a student of philology in 1950 she, along with three friends, founded a Sherlock Holmes society, naming it the \"Red Circle Society.\" She was, around this time, a friend of Hugh Everett III, of whose theories about parallel universes Poul Anderson later became an enthusiast. \n\nRobert A. Heinlein dedicated his 1982 novel, \"Friday\", in part to Karen. In the 1980s she was an active writing collaborator with her husband, co-authoring several books.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2059697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059697", "title": "Babiana ringens", "text": "Babiana ringens\n\nBabiana ringens, the rat's tail, is a flowering plant endemic to Cape Province of South Africa. The foliage is long and erect with an inflorescence consisting of a sterile main stalk adapted for ornithophily, pollination by birds. The plant bears bright red, tubular flowers on side branches close to the ground. It is a perennial that grows in nutrient-poor sandy soil and flowers during the winter rains.\n\nThe main stalk acts as a perch for birds, enabling birds to land within reach of the plant's flowers. The adaptation of the stalk was first noticed by Rudolf Marloth The bird that is the main pollinator of the plant is the malachite sunbird (\"Nectarinia famosa\"). The male sunbird is twice as likely to perch on the stalk as the female and, on average, spends four times longer on a perch. The stalk does seem to play a role in pollination as plants without a stalk produced only half as many seeds and see less cross-pollination as plants with a stalk intact. Accessing the flower from the stalk results in pollen being dusted on the breast of the sunbirds, although the birds may also sit on the ground to access flowers that lack stalks. It has been suggested that the evolution of the bare axis and the flowers being borne at the base may have been driven by selection through the action of grazing herbivores.\n\nTwo subspecies are recorded. The nominate \"ringens\" is found north of the Fish Hoek gap while \"australis\" is found further south with the northern-most record from Scarborough.\n\n"}
{"id": "2059702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059702", "title": "Warrawee railway station", "text": "Warrawee railway station\n\nWarrawee railway station is located on the North Shore line, serving the Sydney suburb of Warrawee. It is served by Sydney Trains T1 North Shore line services.\n\nWarrawee station opened on 1 August 1900.\n\nWarrawee station is served by one NightRide route:\n\n"}
{"id": "2059704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059704", "title": "Ugali", "text": "Ugali\n\nUgali, also known as ugali pap, nsima and nshima, is a type of maize flour porridge made in Africa. It is also known as \nngima, obusuma, kimnyet, nshima, mieliepap, phutu, sadza, kwon, isitshwala and other names. Nsima is sometimes made from other flours, such as millet or sorghum flour, and is sometimes mixed with cassava flour. It is cooked in boiling water or milk until it reaches a stiff or firm dough-like consistency.\n\nThis dish is eaten widely across Africa, where it has different local names:\n\nThe word \"ugali\" is a Bantu language term derived from Swahili, it is also widely known as \"nsima\" in Malawian languages such as Chichewa and Chitumbuka. In parts of Tanzania, the dish also goes by the informal, \"street\" name of \"nguna\" or donee.\n\nMaize was introduced to Africa from the Americas between the 16th and 17th century. Before this, sorghum and millet were the staple cereals in most of Sub-Saharan Africa. Maize was readily accepted by African farmers as its cultivation was very similar to that of sorghum but with significantly higher yields. Eventually, maize displaced sorghum as the primary cereal in all but the drier regions. The full replacement of these crops with maize took place in the latter half of the twentieth century. In Malawi, they have a saying 'chimanga ndi moyo' which translates to 'maize is life'. Nshima/nsima is still sometimes made from sorghum flour though it is quite uncommon to find this. Cassava, which was also introduced from the Americas, can also be used to make nshima/nsima, either exclusively or mixed with maize flour. In Malawi nsima made from cassava (chinangwa) is localized to the lakeshore areas, however, when maize harvests are poor, cassava nsima can be found all over the country.\n\nUgali (when it is cooked as porridge, it is called uji) is usually served with stew or sukumawiki (also known as kale). It is the most common staple starch featured in the local cuisines of the African Great Lakes region and Southern Africa. When ugali is made from another starch, it is usually given a specific regional name.\n\nThe traditional method of eating ugali (and the most common in the rural areas) is to roll a lump into a ball with the right hand, and then dip it into a sauce or stew of vegetables or meat. Making a depression with the thumb allows the ugali to be used to scoop, and to wrap around pieces of meat to pick them up in the same way that flatbread is used in other cultures. Leftover ugali can also be eaten with tea the following morning.\n\nUgali is relatively inexpensive and thus easily accessible to the poor, who usually combine it with a meat or vegetable stew (e.g., sukuma wiki in Kenya) to make a filling meal. Ugali is easy to make, and the flour can last for a considerable time in average conditions. \n\nIn Luhya culture it is the most common staple starch, but is also a key part of Luhya Wedding traditions; obusuma prepared from millet (known as obusuma bwo bule) was traditionally included among delicacies on a bride's high table. Obusuma can also be prepared from other starches like sorghum or cassava (obusuma bwo 'muoko). Obusuma is commonly served with tsimboka, or etsifwa, Eliani (vegetables), inyama, (meat), inyeni, (fish), thimena, (whitebait) or omrere (jute leaves). For distinguished guests or visitors, it is usually served with ingokho, (chicken).\n\nNsima is a dish made from maize flour (white cornmeal) and water and is a staple food in Zambia (nshima/ nsima) and Malawi (nsima).\n\nThe maize flour is first boiled with water into a porridge. It is then 'paddled,' to create a thick paste with the addition of more flour. This process requires the maker to pull the thick paste against the side of a pot with a flat wooden spoon (called an nthiko) quickly whilst it continues to sit over the heat. Once cooked the resulting nshima/nsima is portioned using a wooden/plastic spoon dipped in water or coated in oil called a chipande, each of these portions is called an ntanda.\n\nNshima is almost always eaten with two side dishes, known as \"relishes\": a protein source: meat, poultry, fish, groundnuts (peanuts), beans; and a vegetable, often rape leaves, pumpkin leaves, amaranth leaves, mustard leaves or cabbage. The protein sides are known as \"Ndiyo' (Zambia) or \"Ndiwo\" (Malawi), and the vegetable sides are known as \"masamba\"or \"umuto wankondwa\" in Zambia. In Malawi, this is often accompanied with hot peppers or condiments like homemade hot pepper sauces from peri-peri or Kambuzi chili peppers or commercial chili sauces like Nali Sauce. Traditionally diners sit around a table or on the floor surrounding the meal. The diners have to wash their hands as nshima/nsima is eaten with bare hands. This is done with a bowl of water. Alternatively the host or one of the younger people present pours water from a jug over the hands of the elders or guests into a bowl. Eating is done by taking a small lump into one's right palm, rolling it into a ball and dipping it into the relish. An indentation in the ball can be made to help scoop the relish or soup. As with many African traditions, age is very important. Washing before the meal, eating, and washing after the meal generally starts with the oldest person, followed by everyone else in turn by age.\n\nNshima/nsima is relatively cheap and affordable for most of the population, although occasionally prices have risen due to shortages, contributing to economic and political instability.\n\nIn Malawi, it is normally eaten with \"utaka\" – a type of local dried fish.\n\nIn Nigeria, \"akamu\" or \"ogi\" has a consistency similar to that of American pudding. Ogi/Akamu in Nigeria is generally accompanied with \"moin moin\" a bean pudding or \"akara\" which is a bean cake.\n\nPap , also known as mieliepap (Afrikaans for maize porridge) in South Africa, is a traditional porridge/polenta made from mielie-meal (coarsely ground maize) and a staple food of the Bantu peoples of Southern Africa (the Afrikaans word \"pap\" is taken from Dutch and means merely \"porridge\"). Many traditional Southern African dishes include pap, such as smooth maize meal porridge (also called \"slap pap\" or soft porridge), pap with a very thick consistency that can be held in hand (\"stywe pap\" or firm porridge) and a more dry crumbly phuthu pap. Phuthu dishes are usually found in the coastal areas of South Africa.\n\nA variety of savouries can be used to accompany pap, made from green vegetables, and flavored with chili.\n\nSouth Africans in the northern parts of South Africa eat it as the breakfast staple, with milk, butter, and sugar, but also serve it with meat and tomato stew (usually tomato and onion) at other meals. When they have a braai, \"Bogobe\" or \"Stywe\" pap with a savoury sauce like tomato and onion or mushroom is an important part of the meal. Phutu pap is popularly served with boerewors, a combination that later became known as pap en wors (also called \"pap en vleis\").\n\nIn the Cape Province of South Africa, it is almost exclusively seen as a breakfast food. Since mielie-meal is inexpensive, poor people combine it with vegetables. It can be served hot or, after it has cooled, it can be fried. Phutu porridge is sometimes enjoyed with chakalaka as a side dish with braais.\nUphuthu is a South African method of cooking mealie meal whereby the end product is a finely textured coarse grain-like meal which is typically enjoyed with an accompaniment of vegetables and meat in Kwa Zulu Natal and Eastern Cape regions of South Africa or as the star of the dish with amasi or maas in the Gauteng regions. Some cultures add sugar to uphuthu and amasi to enjoy it as a sweet treat that would resemble cereal, however the corn-based stable is typically enjoyed as is with amasi.\n\nPhuthu or Uphuthu (), also incorrectly spelled as putu or phutu, is a traditional preparation method of maize meal in South African cuisine. It is a crumbly or grainy type of pap or porridge, eaten by most cultural groups in South Africa. Phuthu is often eaten with meat, beans, gravy and sour milk.\n\nPhutu South Africa / Basotho, Nguni, Afrikaner\n\nSadza in Shona (isitshwala in isiNdebele, or \"pap\", \"vuswa\" or \"bogobe\" in South Africa, or nsima in the Chichewa language, or Ugali in Kenya) or \"phaletšhe \" in Botswana, is a cooked maize meal that is the staple food in Zimbabwe and other parts of Southern Africa.\n\nSadza is made with finely ground dry maize/corn maize (Mealie-Meal). This maize meal is referred to as \"hupfu\" in Shona or \"impuphu\" in Ndebele. Despite the fact that maize is an imported food crop to Zimbabwe (c. 1890), it has become the chief source of carbohydrate and the most popular meal for indigenous people. Locals either purchase the mealie meal in retail outlets or produce it in a grinding mill from their maize.\n\nZimbabweans prefer white maize meal. However, during times of famine or hardship, they resorted to eating yellow maize meal, which is sometimes called \"Kenya,\" because it was once imported from that nation. Before the introduction of maize, sadza was made from \"zviyo\" finger millet.\n\nSadza is typically served on individual plates, but traditionally sadza was eaten from a communal bowl, a tradition that is still maintained by some families mainly in the rural areas. It is generally eaten with the right hand without the aid of cutlery; often rolled into a ball before being dipped into a variety of condiments such as sauce/gravy, sour milk, or stewed vegetables.\n\nNotable foods eaten with sadza include:\n\nMeat is known as \"nyama\" in Shona.\n\n\nSimilar dishes are polenta, from northern Italy, and grits in the southern United States.\n\n\"Fufu\", a starch-based food from West and Central Africa, may also be made from maize meal, in which case it may be called \"fufu corn\". In the Caribbean, similar dishes are \"cou-cou\" (Barbados), \"funchi\" (Curaçao), and \"funjie\" (Virgin Islands). It is known as \"funche\" in Puerto Rican cuisine and \"mayi moulin\" in Haitian cuisine.\n\nDishes similar to pap include banku, isidudu, uphuthu, umpokoqo and umngqusho.\n\n\nThe following books, set in Zimbabwe, discuss the characters' eating the Zimbabwean staple, sadza:\n\n"}
{"id": "2059706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059706", "title": "Adler's Appetite", "text": "Adler's Appetite\n\nAdler's Appetite, previously Suki Jones, is an American rock band from Los Angeles, California, formed in 2003. The band's current lineup consists of namesake and drummer Steven Adler, vocalist Ariel Kamin, guitarists Michael Thomas and Alistair James, and bassist Tanya O'Callaghan. Along with original material, the band performs covers of Adler's former band Guns N' Roses, primarily songs from the album \"Appetite for Destruction\".\n\nFormer Slash's Snakepit guitarist Keri Kelli first formed the band in 2003, with the original lineup consisting of Adler, Faster Pussycat guitarist Brent Muscat, former Ratt bassist Robbie Crane as well as then-Ratt singer Jizzy Pearl, also formerly of Love/Hate. The band toured the US and Europe, with a number of musicians filling in for band members due to touring commitments. Following the departure of Muscat in 2004, they recorded and released the \"Adler's Appetite\" EP in January 2005. The same year, Adler announced a new lineup of the band, adding singer Sheldon Tarsha, Enuff Z'nuff bassist Chip Z'nuff, former Beautiful Creatures and Tuff guitarist Michael Thomas as well as Izzy Stradlin guitarist JT Longoria in place of Pearl, Crane and Kelli.\n\nAdler's Appetite toured before briefly going on hiatus in 2006. They returned in 2007, with Hollywood Roses singer Colby Veil replacing Tarsha, and Pretty Boy Floyd guitarist Kristy Majors replacing Longoria. The following year, Tarsha returned to the band, while Majors was replaced by former Quiet Riot and Beautiful Creatures guitarist Alex Grossi. Tarsha's return would be short-lived, once again departing the band with Ladyjack vocalist Rick Stitch joining in his place. With this lineup, they released the singles \"Alive,\" \"Stardog\" and \"Fading\" in 2010. When Quiet Riot reformed the same year, Grossi departed Adler's Appetite in 2011, with Ladyjack guitarist Robo filling in for a European tour. However, following the tour, both Stitch and Robo departed the band, replaced by Aces 'N' Eights singer Patrick Stone as well as guitarist Lonnie Paul, former lead singer of Tilterworld and former Still Standing guitarist. The band dissolved once the tour was completed, with Adler and Paul forming new band \"Adler\". Adler reformed the band in 2018 with a new lineup.\n\nAfter being fired from Guns N' Roses in 1990, drummer Steven Adler worked on a number of projects, reforming pre-Guns N' Roses band Road Crew, with members of Vain, and briefly joining BulletBoys, before joining a band, in 2003, formed by former Slash's Snakepit guitarist Keri Kelli, which also consisted of Faster Pussycat guitarist Brent Muscat, former Ratt bassist Robbie Crane as well as then-Ratt singer Jizzy Pearl, also formerly of Love/Hate. Choosing the name Suki Jones, the band toured the US, making their live debut in Kingman, Arizona in March of the same year. Their sets included songs from the Guns N' Roses albums \"Appetite for Destruction\", \"G N' R Lies\" as well as the \"Live from the Jungle\" EP and songs by AC/DC, Thin Lizzy, Aerosmith, Led Zeppelin, and Queen. For a May tour of the East Coast, Suki Jones enlisted Warrant guitarist Erik Turner to fill in for Muscat, who had prior touring commitments with Faster Pussycat.\n\nThe following month, they renamed the band Adler's Appetite, after Adler and the \"Appetite for Destruction\" album that they performed material from regularly. The band briefly parted ways with singer Pearl, who was replaced by Sean Crosby, before he rejoined the band months later. Billed as Suki Jones, Adler's Appetite performed a show at the Key Club in Hollywood where they were joined onstage by Adler's former Guns N' Roses bandmates, Slash and Izzy Stradlin, for renditions of \"Mr. Brownstone,\" \"Paradise City\" and \"Knockin' on Heaven's Door\". A tour of Europe and the US followed from January–February 2004, however, a number of the US shows were cancelled, after the promoter failed to pay for transport and the band for the shows they performed. Adler's Appetite began writing material for their debut album and signed with Shrapnel Records for its release. A tour of Europe followed from June 25 – July 10, preceded by two US shows in May, during which former Beautiful Creatures and Tuff guitarist Michael Thomas filled in for Kelli, who had joined Vince Neil's solo band.\n\nAdler's Appetite began pre-production on their new album in September, with recording of an EP beginning in November. However, prior to recording, guitarist Muscat departed Adler's Appetite. Self-produced, they recorded the album at Dinky Music Recording Studios, in Corona, California, and Vibeville, in Irvine, California. The EP entitled Adler's Appetite featured four original songs and two covers; \"Hollywood\" by Thin Lizzy and \"Draw the Line\" by Aerosmith. A cover of Hanoi Rocks song \"Obscured\" was to be included on the EP, but was replaced with the Thin Lizzy cover. \"Adler's Appetite\" was completed and released, through the band's official website, in January 2005, and was followed by a tour of the US, UK and Europe. They were to support Hanoi Rocks for one show in the UK. However, they soon pulled out after Adler made disparaging comments about Hanoi Rocks guitarist Andy McCoy's wife during an interview. For a number of the headlining shows, guitarist Craig Bedford filled in for Kelli.\n\nFor a March tour of Japan, Adler's Appetite enlisted Bang Tango and Beautiful Creatures singer Joe Lesté to fill in for Pearl, who cited personal obligations for his absence. Following the tour, it was announced that they had parted ways with Pearl, though he left on good terms with singer Sheldon Tarsha brought in as his replacement. A three-date tour of Argentina followed, with the lineup consisting of Adler and Tarsha along with substitute musicians Enuff Z'nuff bassist Chip Z'nuff, former Beautiful Creatures guitarist Michael Thomas and Izzy Stradlin guitarist JT Longoria, in place of Kelli and Crane, who couldn't take part in the tour due to other commitments. A number of US shows preceded the Argentina tour. Along with Brides of Destruction and then-former L.A. Guns guitarist Tracii Guns, Adler's Appetite, were to tour Asia, in August, under the band name \"Guns N' Roses Revisited\". However, the tour was soon cancelled when they were told, by Axl Rose's lawyers, that they could not use the Guns N' Roses logo. Adler's Appetite announced a tour of the US, UK and Europe was, taking place from December 31, 2005 to February 11, 2006, as well as plans to release a full-length album the same year. Adler announced prior to the tour that the lineup that toured Argentina was in fact the official new lineup of the band, and that Kelli and Crane had departed the band prior to the tour of Argentina.\n\nKelli, Crane, and Pearl threatened legal action, stating that none of them quit Adler's Appetite and that the \"name and logo are registered trademarks owned by the partnership and its four remaining founding partners (Adler, Kelli, Crane, and Pearl).\" They also revealed that no single member could hire or fire another without a majority vote from all four partners. Crane revealed that had Adler dealt with the situation properly, they would have given him the band name and partnership. Several shows into Adler's Appetite European tour, Adler reportedly fired the new lineup, hiring an Italian Guns N' Roses tribute band to replace them, with Z'nuff and Tarsha stating on stage, in Bochum, Germany, that it was Adler's Appetite last show. Ultimately these claims were unfounded, although Thomas left the band at the culmination of the tour. Following the European tour, the band appeared at the Rock the Boat festival, traveling between Oslo, Norway and Fredrikshavn, Denmark, in April, with a tour of the US with Bang Tango and Faster Pussycat following in the summer. The band went on hiatus following the conclusion of this tour.\n\nDuring the period of inactivity, an unreleased song entitled \"Sadder Days,\" featuring original members Kelli and Crane as well as Tarsha on lead vocals, was posted online in April 2007.\n\nAdler's Appetite reformed in 2007, with a lineup that included Adler and Z'nuff with a returning Michael Thomas and Kristy Majors of Pretty Boy Floyd replacing Longoria on guitars, and Colby Veil of Guns 'N' Roses cover band Hollywood Roses replacing Tarsha as lead vocalist. They first performed at Rocklahoma and then proceeded to tour the US from July 28 to August 10 of the same year. The band played a show at the Key Club in Hollywood on July 28, as part of their tour celebrating the 20th anniversary of \"Appetite for Destruction\". During the show, Adler's Appetite were joined onstage by former Guns N' Roses members Izzy Stradlin and Duff McKagan, with Slash also attending the show. During a performance in Mexico City on the tour, Adler fell ill and was treated by paramedics, though he was not hospitalized. A European tour, that was to take place from November 21 – December 15, was cancelled with Adler citing personal issues.\n\nThe following year, Adler's Appetite played the South Texas Rock Festival on July 12. Kristy Majors was then replaced by a new guitarist Alex Grossi, formerly of Quiet Riot, Angry Salad, and Beautiful Creatures, in November 2008. The previous month, Adler and Z'nuff formed a supergroup called Guns of Destruction, with L.A. Guns and former Brides of Destruction guitarist Tracii Guns, making their debut on November 19. The band was short-lived and Adler's Appetite scheduled a tour for the beginning of 2009 with Tarsha rejoining the band in place of Veil. They embarked on their first full US tour that took place from February 21 – March 20, 2009.\n\nFollowing Adler's Appetite's US tour, Tarsha departed the band, in April, to concentrate on his original band. Later Tarsha joined Phoenix band Icon and appeared at Rocklahoma as their frontman before changing his name to Seann Nicols and briefly joining Quiet Riot. He was subsequently replaced by Ladyjack singer Rick Stitch, with the band announcing more US shows, taking place from April 17 – August 15, as well as dates in Brazil and Argentina. From June to July 5, former Quiet Riot bassist Chuck Wright filled in for Z'nuff. Adler's Appetite also began recording new material in July, with hopes of releasing it by the end of 2009.\n\nAdler's Appetite released their first new material, since 2005, with the single \"Alive,\" released in conjunction with Adler's autobiography, \"My Appetite for Destruction: Sex, and Drugs, and Guns N' Roses\", on July 29, 2010, with a full version released later in the year. The song was later licensed for use on Speed TV's \"WindTunnel with Dave Despain\". Following a 50 date US tour, they began recording their debut album in November with Cinderella drummer Fred Coury producing. The following month they released two more singles entitled \"Stardog\" and \"Fading\", which was followed by a tour of Europe and the UK, during which Ladyjack guitarist Robo filled in for Grossi so as to let Grossi rejoin Quiet Riot (with Grossi quitting the band altogether shortly after), taking place from February 10–28. During a show in London, Duff McKagan joined the band onstage for renditions of \"My Michelle\" and \"It's So Easy.\" After the tour, both Stitch and Robo departed Adler's Appetite to focus on Ladyjack. In April, the band announced that Aces 'N' Eights singer Patrick Stone had replaced Stitch, while they also added guitarist Lonny Paul to the lineup to replace Grossi. while, the following month, Z'nuff announced the band had signed a new record deal, though he could not reveal the label's name. Adler's Appetite began recording new material on September 26, at NRG Recording Studios. However, it was announced two days later that Z'nuff and Stone were no longer a member of the band, with Adler citing his forming a new band (and subsequent dissolution of Adler's Appetite), with Thomas, Paul, and an unknown singer, as the reasons for his departure. Later it was revealed that Adler's new band was to be named \"Adler\", and that Thomas was no longer part of the project, leaving only Adler and Paul from Adler's Appetite in the new band. The founding lineup of the new band consisted of Adler, Paul, former Mars Electric vocalist Jacob Bunton and L.A. Guns bassist Johnny Martin.\n\nIn early 2018, former guitarist Alex Grossi announced that Adler's Appetite will return to celebrate the 30th anniversary of \"Appetite for Destruction\". On May 6, the band performed for the first time since 2011, now with guitarists Carl Restivo and Michael Thomas alongside vocalist Constantine Maroulis joining Adler. Tanya O'Callaghan played bass, and was described by the band as a \"special guest\".\nIn 2019 they appeared on KISS KRUISE 9 (KKIX).\n\nCurrent members\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2059709", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059709", "title": "Pymble railway station", "text": "Pymble railway station\n\nPymble railway station is located on the North Shore line, serving the Sydney suburb of Pymble. It is served by Sydney Trains T1 North Shore line services.\n\nPymble station opened on 1 January 1890 when the North Shore line opened from Hornsby to St Leonards. The present island platform and station building were completed in 1909 in when the line was duplicated.\n\nPymble station is served by one bus route operated by Transdev NSW and one NightRide route.\n\n"}
{"id": "2059713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059713", "title": "Cyber Seduction: His Secret Life", "text": "Cyber Seduction: His Secret Life\n\nCyber Seduction: His Secret Life is an original Lifetime television movie which was first broadcast on June 20, 2005. It was directed by Tom McLoughlin and written by Wesley Bishop and Richard Kletter. The movie stars Jeremy Sumpter, Kelly Lynch, and Lyndsy Fonseca. It is now available on DVD. The film is meant to be a cautionary tale about the alleged effects of internet pornography addiction on teenage boys.\n\n\nJustin Petersen is a popular 16-year-old high school student and a successful swimmer with a steady girlfriend, Amy. Justin's coach announces that Justin has made the All-State team, which pleases his parents, particularly his mother Diane, who used to swim as well.\n\nJustin is introduced to internet pornography when a friend sends him a link to a softcore webcam site featuring Monica, a fellow student who has a crush on him. Captivated, Justin is then exposed to a porn film at a party. Later, Justin browses more explicit pornographic websites on a daily basis. However, he's only to be caught by his mother. It is easy for Diane to be aware of her son's behavior, as Justin does little to make his activities clandestine. Throughout the film, Justin's severe addiction to porn escalates. He views it in increasingly public places, making little effort to cover his tracks.\n\nJustin's late nights in front of his computer and escalating addiction soon impact his lap times. He betrays Amy's trust by downloading porn onto her PDA. Then, he exposes his younger brother, Alex, (who's only 11) to porn. This left him feeling queasy. Justin begins to gain a reputation at school of being a \"porn freak\" after showing his friends S&M porn. Eventually, his pornography addiction causes him to almost miss the All-State swim finals, where he places third. Later that night, while Diane puts away Alex's neatly folded laundry into his top drawer, she then discovers a DVD-R titled \"Virgin Vaginas\" (which Alex had stolen from Justin's bedroom earlier). Eventually, Diane confronts both of her sons and moves Justin's computer into the living room, much to Justin's dismay.\n\nHowever, it does not stop him. While trying to write a history paper on the school's library computer, Justin goes to the extent of using it to access porn (using his USB Drive). Eventually, he gets caught hacking the internet firewall by the school librarian. This action led to his suspension from the swim team and being placed on overall probation. Later, after fantasizing about girls while struggling to sleep, Justin sneaks out of his bedroom to use the computer in the living room, in defiance of his grounding. He then continues to surf the web for more porn, eventually racking up extensive bills on his parents' credit cards.\n\nThe next day, Justin becomes closer to Monica and increasingly ignores Amy. After being pressured to have sex with him, Amy puts the brakes on their relationship. She found Justin's attitude towards sexual matters to be repulsive. However, when Monica tries to seduce him, Justin hesitates. This prompted an angry Monica to toss him out of her house. After feeling emotionally rejected by Justin, Monica throws a physical tantrum alone in her bathroom. She bangs her own head on the bathroom's counter top, causing it to bleed. Soon after, Justin endeavors to make amends with Amy. After leaving Amy's house, he is noticed by another schoolmate, who relays to other schoolmates that he is near. Monica is seen in a restaurant with noticeable face injuries. The incident is presumed that she told others that Justin was responsible for them. Eventually, the schoolmates beat Justin up on the street, disturbed by both his reputation and the alleged incident with Monica.\n\nDepressed and devastated after being physically attacked, Justin arrives at the school's swimming pool and leaps in, presumably to drown himself. Earlier in the middle of the movie, he would be under the water fantasizing about women and porn. However, this time, he thinks of all the things for which he has to live instead. Gradually, he saves himself and apparently breaks his addiction.\n\nThe film has been described as \"overwrought\" and \"\"Reefer Madness\" for the PC generation.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2059717", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059717", "title": "San Miguel, El Salvador", "text": "San Miguel, El Salvador\n\nSan Miguel is a city in eastern El Salvador. It is the country's third most populous city. It is located 138 km east of the capital, San Salvador. It is also the capital of the department of San Miguel and a municipality. The population of the city in 2017 was 518,410.\n\nLuis de Moscoso Alvarado established the village of San Miguel de la Frontera (Saint Michael of the Frontier) on May 8, 1530, as a bastion for the conquest of the Lenca kingdom of Chaparrastique (Place of Beautiful Orchids). By 1586 the village had obtained the title of city.\n\nIn 1655, a volcanic eruption almost destroyed the entire city. According to legend, the devastation was so severe that only an image of Satan in the parish church was spared.\n\nThe city has been an important center of the agriculture, textile and chemical industries of El Salvador. Since the early 21st century, the services sector, especially health care and commerce, have increased considerably, resulting in significant private investments in hospitals and shopping malls within the city. This has usually been attributed partly to the high inflow of remittances (at least 35% of the total, which represents around 18% of the national GDP ) that Salvadorans living abroad send to families in the eastern zone of the country. \n\nThe incomes and wealth of the eastern half of the country are expected to increase following new jobs and businesses associated with the development of the Puerto La Unión; it started operations in 2012.\n\nThere are many educational institutions within the city, private and public, including some of the oldest schools in the country. The main universities are the public University of El Salvador ( with its Facultad Multidiciplinaria de Oriente) and the private Universidad de Oriente (UNIVO).The University Gerardo Barrios, the University Modular Abierta.\n\nThe sports infrastructure of San Miguel has had significant development and modernization since the beginning of the past decade. The main sports centers are the national football stadium of \"Juan Francisco Barraza\", the \"Polideportivo Don Bosco\" and the Charlaix Stadium.\n\nIn November, San Miguel celebrates its municipal festivities in honor of \"Nuestra Señora De La Paz\" (Our Lady of Peace), the San Miguel Carnival being the final and main event that takes place on the last Saturday of the month. With an estimate of 1,000,000 people attending it for its 50th anniversary (as reported by the local media), it is considered the biggest entertainment, music and food festival in El Salvador and one of the largest in Central America. The beginnings of the Carnival itself date from 1959. Currently, this tradition continues to reflect the growth of the city and one of the motors for its economy. \n\nFamous people born in San Miguel include Captain General Gerado Barrios, writer Francisco Gavidia, poet Juan J. Cañas, and David Joaquín Guzmán. The city is flanked by the Volcan Chaparrastique (2,129 meters), perhaps the most iconic image of San Miguel. \n\nSan Miguel is a sister city of Arlington, Virginia.\n"}
{"id": "2059719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059719", "title": "Xilinhot", "text": "Xilinhot\n\nXilinhot (, , \"Sili-yin hota\"; ) is a county-level city which serves as the seat of government for the Xilin Gol league in Inner Mongolia, People's Republic of China. It has a jurisdiction area of and a population of 245,886; 149,000 people live in the Xilinhot urban area.\n\nDuring the Ming dynasty, the elder brother of Genghis Khan lived in Xilinhot area. As a result, the local Mongols were called \"Abganar\", because \"Abgal\" in Mongolian means paternal uncle. When in the first half of the 17th century the Mongols submitted to the Manchu, the Abganar territories were divided into two banners: Abganar-Tszoitsi (Abganar left wing) and Abganar-Yuitsi (Abganar right wing). These wings were commanded by men in the rank of princes beile. The Abgal () and Hotsit () tribes also lived in the area. Xinlihot was renamed Beizi Temple () after the Qianlong Emperor built the Beizi Temple in 1743. Today, the Beizi temple is one of the largest temples on the Xilin Gol grassland.\n\nIn 1914, Beizi Temple was included in the newly founded Chahar Special Administrative Region, which became the Chahar Province in 1928. Later it was included in the Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region. In 1953, the county was renamed Xilinhot, and then Abahanaer Banner in 1956. In 1983, it was approved for classification as a county-level city by the state council, and once more renamed Xilinhot.\n\nThe elevation of Xilinhot is approximately . The city is from Beijing and Hohhot (the capital of Inner Mongolia), respectively.\n\nXilinhot experiences a cold semi-arid climate (Köppen \"BSk\") with long, very dry, and bitter winters and short, hot summers. The monthly 24-hour average temperature ranges from in January to in July, with an annual mean temperature of . With monthly percent possible sunshine ranging from 59 percent in July to 73 percent in February, sunshine is abundant year-round. The city receives 2,970 hours of sunshine per year; due to the aridity, the diurnal temperature variation frequently approaches and exceeds . Most of the of annual rainfall occurs in July and August.\n\nThe market of the area is centered in Xilinhot and cattle is of particular importance.\n\nThe historic center of Xilinhot contains an artistic temple.\n\nThe Naadam festival, a Mongolian feast, is celebrated every year. Naadam is a gathering of the Mongolian people that involves wrestling, horse trading, costume contests, horse racing, etc. It's the Mongolian summer festival with festival attendees wearing colorful costumes. Colorful yurts are set up to serve food and trinkets and supplies.\n\nMongolian culture is prevalent in the city scene; tapestries and monumental statues of Genghis Khan adorn homes, shops, and street corners.\n\nTourists can stay at nearby yurt resorts, where there are large yurts for dining surrounded by smaller individual yurts for sleeping. The Xilinhot countryside is marked by rolling grasslands populated by Mongolians who keep horses, sheep, goats, and cows. Mongolian meals consist of mutton, beef, cabbage, and other fruits and vegetables.\n\nThe diet of the area is centered around the local dairy and meat production. Products regularly eaten by residents include horse milk yogurt, milk, tofu, milk skin, beef and mutton string, hand meat, and grilled lamb.\n\nXilinhot Airport has regular flights to Beijing on Air China and China United Airlines. The airport is also served by Tianjin Airlines with multiple daily flights to Hohhot and a seasonal daily flight to Tianjin; there are also occasional direct flights to other major cities.\n\nThe K7917 train connects Xilinhot with the national rail network and departs daily for Hohhot and Baotou.\n\nChina National Highway 207 and China National Highway 303 both terminate in the Xilinhot area. The S27 Xilingol-Kalgan Expressway also ends in a suburb of Xilinhot.\n"}
{"id": "2059725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059725", "title": "Lošinj", "text": "Lošinj\n\nLošinj (; ; , earlier \"Osero\"; ; ; ) is a Croatian island in the northern Adriatic Sea, in the Kvarner Gulf. It is almost due south of the city of Rijeka and part of the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County.\n\nThe settlements on Lošinj include Nerezine, Sveti Jakov, Ćunski, Artatore, Mali Lošinj and Veli Lošinj.\n\nA regional road runs the length of the island; ferry connections (via the island of Cres) include Brestova - Porozina, Merag - Valbiska, Mali Lošinj - Zadar, Mali Lošinj - Pula. There is also an airport on the island of Lošinj.\n\nLošinj is part of the Cres-Lošinj archipelago. The Cres-Lošinj archipelago includes Cres and Lošinj, and the smaller islands of Unije, Ilovik, Susak, Vele Srakane, Male Srakane and a number of uninhabited small islands. Cres is the biggest by area, Lošinj is second. Cres and Lošinj are connected by a small bridge at the town of Osor on Cres. The highest elevations are the mountains Televrin (also called Osoršćica) at and Sv. Nikola (also called Sv. Mikul) at . The towns of Nerezine and Sveti Jakov lie at their base. The island is formed predominantly of chalk limestone and dolomite rocks. There are sand deposits in the western part of the Kurila peninsula.\n\nLošinj is the 11th largest Adriatic island by area, long, with the width varying from in the north and middle of the island, to near the town of Mali Lošinj. The total coastline of the island is .\n\nWith around 2600 hours of sunshine a year, the island has become a popular destination for Slovenian, German and Italian tourists in the summer months. Average air humidity is 70%, and the average summer temperature is and during the winter.\n\nThe island has a mild climate and evergreen vegetation (like myrtle, holm oak, and laurel). However, as with other Mediterranean locations, Losinj is susceptible to the various Winds. Bura is the north-easterly wind that brings low temperatures and strong winds, sometimes it is strong enough to turn over heavy vehicles. Jugo is the southerly wind that originated from the Sahara, when it reaches Losinj it becomes wet, then brings along dark clouds and stormy weather. Traditionally, it is said that Dalmatians are especially affected by Jugo. It is reputed to cause aches, melancholy and sometimes lunacy. \n\nThe highest elevations in the north have more sparse vegetation. Veli Lošinj, Čikat and the south-western coast are ringed by pine forests.\n\nSettlement on nearby Cres is known to date back around 12,000 years, and the island of Lošinj is also thought to have been inhabited since prehistoric times. This is evidenced by hill-forts at the foot of Osoršćica and around the port of Mali Lošinj. According to Ptolemy, the Romans called this island \"Apsorrus\" (, and referred to the islands of Lošinj and Cres collectively as \"Apsirtides\". In several places, ruins of Roman villas have been excavated (villae rusticae: Liski, Sveti Jakov, and Studenčić near Ćunski). Several small eremitic churches dating from the Roman era have been preserved (St. Lovreć near Osor, and St. James in Sveti Jakov).In the Middle Ages, Lošinj was the property of the clerical and secular nobility of Osor and unpopulated.\n\nThe first evidence of settlers from the mainland was in 1280. Pursuant to a contract with Osor, their settlements gained self-governance in 1389. The name Lošinj was first mentioned in 1384. Parallel with the gradual decline of Osor from the 15th century onwards, the settlements Veli Lošinj and Mali Lošinj played an increasingly important role.\n\nIn the 18th and 19th centuries, trade, shipbuilding and seafaring on the island developed more intensely. In 1771, Alberto Fortis visited Cres and Lošinj (which was then called Osero) and wrote a travelogue about his visit: \"Saggio d'osservazioni sopra l'isola di Cherso ed Osero.\" After the fall of the Republic of Venice in 1797, Lošinj became part of the Austrian province (crown land) of Istria under the Treaty of Campo Formio. By 1900 the population had reached 11,615. In 1921, it was given as 15,000.\n\nIn 1919, Lošinj, with its partially Italian population, became part of Italy under the terms of the Treaty of Saint-Germain, as confirmed by the 1920 Treaty of Rapallo. It was held by them until 1943 when it was occupied by German Wehrmacht and Croatian troops during World War II as part of the Operational Zone Adriatic Coast. In 1945 the island and the rest of Croatia became part of Yugoslavia, until Croatia declared independence from the Yugoslav Federation in 1991.\n\nThe post-Second World War period saw a substantial exodus (see Istrian exodus for further details) of its Italian-speaking population to Italy and to other countries. According to the last census the number of Italian-speaking citizens in Lošinj were 557 (6.64% of the total official resident population). Before the independence of Croatia from the Yugoslav Federation, the official censuses reported the Italian-speaking minority being much smaller (figures quoted in the official census conducted in 1981 shows that the Italian minority accounted only for 1.5% of the resident population).\nExpatriates in Italy and around the world publish a newsletter which keeps their memories and traditions alive.\nOn the Island Italian is popular as a second language.\n\nBecause of its temperate climate, aside from the violent Mediterranean Winds, since 2010, Losinj has started to become a tourist destination. Some Russian powers and conglomerates have invested in properties on the Island. Such activities have caused alarm on some of the locals.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2059734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059734", "title": "Silent Warnings", "text": "Silent Warnings\n\nSilent Warnings (also known as Dark Harvest) is a 2003 science fiction/horror television film about a group of college students who begin finding crop circles by the house they have moved into. Following the disappearance of one of them, they begin suspecting something sinister. It was commissioned by Syfy (then known as Sci-Fi Channel), written and directed Christian McIntire, and stars Stephen Baldwin, A. J. Buckley and Billy Zane. The project was released on DVD as \"Warnings\" by WL on June 23, 2003 and as \"Silent Warnings\" by Universal on August 26, 2003.\n\nAfter his cousin Joe (Stephen Baldwin) dies, Layne Vassimer (A. J. Buckley) and his girlfriend Macy (Callie De Fabry), along with their friends Stephen (David O'Donnell), Maurice (Ransford Doherty), Iris (Kim Onasch) and Katrina (Michelle Borth), decide to clean up Joe's house with the intention of selling it. When they see it for the first time, they discover the house completely covered in plates of iron armor.\n\nThe group also finds crop circles in the nearby cornfield. When Iris suddenly disappears, they realize something is really wrong. During a blackout, the house is attacked by aliens. The group figures out the aliens are allergic to iron, which is why Joe had covered the house in it to keep them out. They attempt to fight the aliens off, but the house is eventually blown up with Layne, Macy, and Katrina the only survivors.\n\nIn the end, they drive off, listening to the radio. They hear a news report stating that the blackout they experienced affects five western states and parts of Canada. They also hear that people everywhere are being attacked by \"strange creatures.\"\n\n\"Dread Central\" panned the film, beginning by comparing it to \"Signs\" and remarking that it was more a rip off of Roger Corman’s \"Carnosaur 2\" rip-off of \"Aliens\". The only differences found between this and \"Signs\" is that the farm family of Mel Gibson was replaced by bland teenagers, with a dash of T&A and gore. Considering it low-budget knock-off of a Hollywood blockbuster, the reviewer offered that a more appropriate title would have been \"Crap Circles\".\n\n\"Movie Gazette\" also noted the film is just M Night Shyamalan’s \"Signs\" remade on a budget. They noted it even had similar failings, in it \"being a movie of two halves, and going downhill when it stops building tension and turns into an alien horror movie.\" When the aliens are finally revealed, they disappoint by being \"rendered in almost cartoon fashion\". Another flaw was that the film's two biggest star names have their talents wasted by being relegated to roles seen only briefly in the film. The only plus was while the ending was confusing, it \"s better than that of \"Signs\" which was corny and obvious.\"\n"}
{"id": "2059739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059739", "title": "Da Mafan", "text": "Da Mafan\n\n大麻煩 (py. Dà Máfán, en. Big Trouble) is an album by Taiwanese singer/actress/model Vivian Hsu, released April 29, 1998 on the BMG label. Though Vivian's third solo album, it is her first solo Chinese-language album, despite that language being her mother tongue.\n\n"}
{"id": "2059743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059743", "title": "Babiana", "text": "Babiana\n\nBabiana is a genus of flowering plants in the family Iridaceae composed of about 80 recognized species. The majority of these species are endemic to the Cape Provinces of South Africa, especially Namaqualand, as well Namibia, Botswana, Zambia and Zimbabwe.\n\nThe genus name is derived from the Dutch word \"baviaan\", referring to the Chacma baboon, \"Papio ursinus\", that consumes the corms of plants in the genus.\n\nOne species, \"Babiana stricta\", is widely cultivated as an ornamental.\n"}
{"id": "2059744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059744", "title": "Marshall Brain", "text": "Marshall Brain\n\nMarshall David Brain (born May 17, 1961) is an American author, public speaker, and entrepreneur. A college instructor and computer programmer, Brain is the founder of HowStuffWorks and the author of the How Stuff Works book series. He has appeared on \"The Oprah Winfrey Show\", \"Dr. Oz\", \"Good Morning America\", CNN, \"Modern Marvels\", and in many other media outlets. He was the host of the National Geographic Channel's \"Factory Floor with Marshall Brain\" 2008–2009.\n\nMarshall Brain was born in Santa Monica, California. He graduated from Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in Troy, New York in 1983 with a bachelor's degree in electrical engineering. He was a member of the Alpha Chi Rho fraternity. Brain earned a master's degree in computer science from North Carolina State University (NCSU).\n\nIn the late 1980s and early 1990s, Marshall taught in the computer science department at North Carolina State University for six years. He has written computer programming manuals and has run a software training and consulting company.\n\nMarshall founded the website HowStuffWorks.com in 1998 and ran the site until 2002, when he sold it to The Convex Group, an Atlanta-based investment company owned by former Web MD CEO Jeff Arnold, for around $1 million.\n\nBrain maintains on his website with, among others, essays on transhumanism and robots and an online science fiction novel on that topic, \"Manna\". Brain argues in his \"Robotic Nation\" series that automation will lead to structural unemployment, requiring a basic income guarantee or guaranteed minimum income. Continuing the theme of his book \"Manna\", Brain gave an interview in 2015 where he asserted that the coming technological singularity will involve robots displacing more humans from employment.\n\nHe resides in Cary, North Carolina with his wife Leigh and four children. He serves on the North Carolina advisory board of DonorsChoose.\n\nBrain is a atheist. His websites Why Won't God Heal Amputees? and God is Imaginary reflect his skepticism of a single god that is omnipotent and omnibenevolent.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2059746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059746", "title": "Carhop", "text": "Carhop\n\nA carhop is a waiter or waitress who brings fast food to people in their cars at drive-in restaurants. Carhops usually work on foot but sometimes use roller skates, as depicted in movies such as \"American Graffiti\" and television shows such as \"Happy Days\". Carhops have long been associated with hot rods.\nThe first carhops appeared in 1921 when automobiles were beginning to be a common sight in Dallas, Texas. Two men, a businessman named J.G. Kirby and a physician named R.W. Jackson, decided to take advantage of the fact that many people owned cars and more were coming. They realized that many of the drivers would rather not get out of their cars to eat. They opened a restaurant called the Pig Stand, which had male carhops from its inception. The A&W corporate website actually claims to have opened the first carhop restaurant in 1923, just two years after the Pig Stand initiated carhops. The term itself, a play on the word \"bellhop\", was not used in print until 1937.\n\nWomen soon replaced male carhops during World War II, because most American men left their jobs to join the military and restaurants quickly discovered that a pretty girl sold more food. This declined in the late 1940s and 1950s, when men returned to the civilian workforce and pretty girls were seen as having an adverse effect of attracting loiterers.\n\nDuring the mid 1960s, as newer drive-ins began offering drive-through service, the number of carhops declined dramatically and they are seldom seen today. Carhops can still be found at a few remaining original drive-in stands and nostalgic fast food establishments, mostly in smaller and rural towns with local ownership. Sonic Drive-In still employs carhops at most of their over 3,600 restaurants. In recent years, there has been a carhop resurgence, with some franchises cashing in on the nostalgia and memories of baby boomers. The aluminum window trays used by carhops are still manufactured and sold today.\nThe uniforms of early carhops were important, as many drive-ins were competing and something eye-catching was seen as gamesmanship. There was often a military, airline, space age, or cheerleader theme, or any other concept an owner thought would bring customers in.\n\nA carhop was the most prominent image on the poster for the film \"American Graffiti\". They were also often seen in the early seasons of \"Happy Days\". The decline of the carhop was shown in the film \"The Founder\", where Ray Kroc is complaining of a wrong order to one carhop at an unnamed drive-in, who ignores his grievance and skates off to flirt with nonpaying customers. Later in the film, when Maurice McDonald is telling of the advent of his titular restaurant, he says he and his brother laid off all their carhops due to said issues, superseding them with the \"Speedee System\" where customers were better served.\n\n"}
{"id": "2059749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059749", "title": "Electoral districts of South Australia", "text": "Electoral districts of South Australia\n\nSince 1970, the South Australian House of Assembly (the \"lower house\") has consisted of 47 single-member electoral districts consisting of approximately the same number of enrolled voters. The district boundaries are regulated by the State Electoral Office, according to the requirements of the South Australian Constitution and are subject to mandatory redistributions by the State Electoral Office in order to respond to changing demographics.\n\nElectoral boundaries are adjusted after each election. The number of electors in each district must be within 10% of the average at the time of the redistribution order. Other issues that may be considered include economic, social and regional communities of interest. From 1990 to 2018, it was also a requirement that each redistribution attempt to ensure that the party that obtains 50% or more of the overall vote at a general election would be able to form a government; this requiremnet has since been repealed.\nWhile South Australia's total population exceeds 1.7 million, Adelaide's population exceeds 1.3 million − uniquely highly centralised, over 75% of the state's population resides in the metropolitan area and has 72% of seats (34 of 47) alongside a lack of comparatively sized rural population centres, therefore the metropolitan area is crucial in deciding election outcomes. At the 2014 election for example, although the statewide two-party vote (2PP) was 47.0% Labor vs. 53.0% Liberal, the metropolitan area recorded a 2PP of 51.5% Labor v 48.5% Liberal.\n\nSince 1938, the South Australian House of Assembly has had single-member electoral districts. From 1938 to 1968 there were 39 districts. Since 1970 there have been 47 electoral districts. From 1857 to 1933, the number of districts varied between 12 (1912–1915) and 27 (1890–1901). Each district returned from 1-6 members.\n\nThis table gives the number of members returned by each electoral district at each election.\nThese electoral districts no longer exist:\n\n\n Metropolitan 2PP correctly calculated by adding raw metro 2PP vote numbers from the 34 metro seats, both Labor and Liberal, then dividing Labor's raw metro 2PP vote from the total, which revealed a Labor metropolitan 2PP of 51.54%.\n\n"}
{"id": "2059759", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059759", "title": "Bruce Morrow", "text": "Bruce Morrow\n\nBruce Morrow (born Bruce Meyerowitz on October 13, 1935) is an American radio performer, known for some professional purposes as Cousin Brucie.\n\nMorrow is from Brooklyn, New York. His family first lived at 2261 East 26th Street, later moving to 1628 East 29th Street. His favorite activity as a child was going to Coney Island and enjoying the rides at Steeplechase Park. As a youngster he was reportedly greatly interested in radio programs such as \"Boston Blackie\", \"The Bickersons\", \"Superman\", and \"The Shadow\".\n\nDuring 1951, when aged 16, he played the character \"Tooth Decay\" in a school hygiene play. He was also involved with the All City Radio Workshop at James Madison High School. He wanted to pursue this more and spent ten hours a week working for dramatic educational productions at radio station WNYE-FM. \n\nMorrow enrolled as a student at Brooklyn College but soon quit. He then became a student at the Communications Arts Program at New York University. He was able to convince a dean to initiate the school's first radio station WCAG (Communications Arts Group). It was a carrier current station with a very limited range and programmed classical music.\n\nHe has three children, Meridith, a voice over actress, and former TV news anchor, Paige, a director, and Jon, a doctor.\n\nMorrow's first stint in radio was in Bermuda at ZBM-AM, where he was known as \"The Hammer\".\n\nMorrow began his career in the USA at New York City Top 40 station WINS (AM) in 1959. In 1960, he relocated to Miami, Florida for a stint at WINZ (AM) before returning to New York the next year for the major station WABC (AM 770), another Top 40 station. Morrow's return to New York City came just as rock and roll music was becoming extremely popular among the baby boom demographic, and Morrow found himself on the most powerful radio station on the East Coast at the beginning of the so-called British Invasion. His main competition came from his previous station WINS, which featured \"Murray the K,\" a DJ who claimed an association with the Beatles.\n\nMorrow quickly became a success on WABC's teenager-oriented evening shift for 7:15 p.m. to 10:30 p.m., presenting the diverse musical genres of the time (Motown soul, pop, hard rock, surf music, novelty records), as well as advertisements for youth-oriented sponsors like Thom McAn, local clothing outlets in the New York and New Jersey areas, and events such as concerts and drag-strip races.\n\nMorrow worked for WABC for 13 years and 4,014 broadcasts until August 1974, when he transferred to rival radio station WNBC replacing Wolfman Jack who quit to tour with The Guess Who; after three years there, he quit performance to team with entrepreneur Robert F.X. Sillerman to become the owner of the Sillerman Morrow group of radio stations, which included WALL; WKGL, now WRRV, in Middletown, New York; WJJB, later WCZX, in Poughkeepsie, New York; WHMP in Northampton, Massachusetts; WOCB in West Yarmouth, Massachusetts; WRAN (now dark) New Jersey 1510 in Randolph, New Jersey; and television station WATL Atlanta. The group later purchased WPLR in New Haven, Connecticut.\n\nDuring 1982, Morrow resumed working as a radio announcer, for New York's WCBS-FM, an oldies station. Initially, he filled in for Jack Spector every third Saturday evening for the \"Saturday Night Sock Hop\" program. After Spector's resignation during 1985, Morrow became the main performer for the program and renamed it the \"Saturday Night Dance Party\". The station also added his nationally syndicated show \"Cruisin' America\". During 1986, he began working the Wednesday evening shift, where he hosted \"The Top 15 Yesterday and Today Countdown\". During 1991, the Wednesday show became \"The Yearbook\", emphasizing music from the years between 1955 and 1979. Cousin Brucie was also the \"breakfast presenter\" on Atlantic 252 from 1992 to 1996.\n\nWhen the radio program \"Cruisin' America\" ended during December 1992, Morrow continued hosting a WCBS radio program named \"Cruising with the Cuz\" Monday evenings until the end of 1993. After that program ended, he hosted the Saturday night and Wednesday night programs there until the station's change to an adult hits format named Jack FM on June 3, 2005. Soon thereafter, he signed a multi-year deal to host oldies programming and a weekly talk program for Sirius Satellite Radio.\n\nAs of 2019, Morrow hosts programs for Sirius XM satellite radio, on the '60s on 6 channel. \"Cousin Brucie's Saturday Night Party – Live\" is broadcast Saturday nights, while \"Cruisin' with Cousin Brucie\" is broadcast live on Wednesday nights. The Wednesday broadcast used to repeat on Sunday nights, but no longer does. In place of the repeat, a show titled \"Best of Brucie\" airs, a compilation of all of his best moments on SiriusXM. His crew consists of former senior producer Adam Saltzman (grandson of studio session drummer Buddy Saltzman, and is currently working on The Beatles Channel), former producer Lauren Hornek (Now of Hits1), and current senior producer Colton Murray.\n\nMorrow's voice can be heard in the movies \"Across the Universe\", \"Gas Pump Girls\", and \"Dirty Dancing\"; he also had a minor part in the latter, playing a magician who saws Baby (Jennifer Grey) in half. He can be seen making on stage introductory remarks for the 1966 documentary \"The Beatles at Shea Stadium\". He also appeared in the 1978 movie \"Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band\" and had a guest appearance for the 1990s science fiction television series \"Babylon 5\", (in \"War Without End\" (Part 2), playing the first officer of Babylon 4). In \"Across the Universe\" the radio station call letters he used were WEAF which were the call letters of 660 in New York before it became WNBC. He also played a television contest announcer in \"Between Time and Timbuktu\", a 1972 National Educational Television production adapted from several short stories by Kurt Vonnegut.\n\nFor the last two decades, Morrow has worked for the Variety Children's Charity to help fund children who are disadvantaged, physically challenged, sick or needy, and he volunteers his time and talent with Gatewave Audio Reading Service for people who are blind or visually impaired.\n\nMorrow was inducted into the National Radio Hall of Fame during 1988, and the National Association of Broadcasters Hall of Fame in the radio division during 2001. During 2010, he received the Bravery In Radio Award from William Paterson University and its radio station WPSC 88.7 FM, for a track record of \"inspirational radio programming and lifelong commitment to the medium of radio\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2059820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059820", "title": "Idaho Spud", "text": "Idaho Spud\n\nThe Idaho Spud is a candy bar made by the Idaho Candy Company. It has been produced since 1918 and is distributed primarily throughout the Pacific Northwest region of the United States. The wrapper of the product bears the slogan \"The Candy Bar That Makes Idaho Famous.\" The bar was invented by Thomas \"T.O.\" Smith, who founded the Idaho Candy Company in 1901.\n\nAccording to the Idaho Candy Company, the Idaho Spud is in the top 100 best-selling candy bars in the Northwest United States. The bar is sold at room temperature, but is often frozen before consumption. They are also sold as bite size candies in clear plastic tubs.\n\nThe candy bar consists of a cocoa-flavored marshmallow center which is covered with compound chocolate (a chocolate replacement made from cocoa, sugar, and vegetable fats) and sprinkled with coconut flakes. The oblong shape of the candy bar resembles a potato. The product has 180 calories and weighs 1.5 ounces or 43 grams.\n\n\nThe bar was featured in Steve Almond's book \"Candyfreak\" as one of the few successful candies made by a small company.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2059837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059837", "title": "Finkelstein", "text": "Finkelstein\n\nFinkelstein ( or , ) is a German and Yiddish surname originating from Old High German \"funko\" (spark) and \"stein\" (stone).\n\"Fünkelstein\" meant pyrites (George J. Adler A Dictionary of the German and English Languages, 1848). The Yiddish version of pyrite, \"finkelstein\", could have denoted \"bareketh\", one of the 12 tribe stones of High Priest's breastplate (Exodus 28:17).\n\nNotable people with the surname include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2059842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059842", "title": "Benoît Jacquot", "text": "Benoît Jacquot\n\nBenoît Jacquot (; born 5 February 1947) is a French film director and screenwriter who has had a varied career in European cinema.\n\nBorn in Paris, Jacquot began his career as assistant director of Marguerite Duras films, including \"Nathalie Granger\", \"India Song\", and also actor in the 1973 short film \"La Sœur du cadre\".\n\nHe turned to writing and directing with the 1975 film \"The Musician Killer\", which starred Anna Karina.\n\nHe has directed over forty films, the most notable of which to American audiences are \"La Désenchantée\" (1990), starring Judith Godrèche, and \"A Single Girl\" (1995), starring Virginie Ledoyen.\n\nIn 2003, he directed Massenet's opera \"Werther\" conducted by Antonio Pappano at Royal Opera House, Covent Garden.\n\nHis film \"Farewell, My Queen\" opened the 62nd Berlin International Film Festival in February 2012.\n\nHis 2014 film \"Three Hearts\" competed for the Golden Lion at the 71st Venice International Film Festival.\n\n"}
{"id": "2059852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059852", "title": "Police aviation", "text": "Police aviation\n\nPolice aviation is the use of aircraft in police operations. Police services commonly use aircraft for traffic control, ground support, search and rescue, high-speed car pursuits, observation, air patrol and control of large-scale public events and/or public order incidents. They may employ rotary-wing aircraft, fixed-wing aircraft, nonrigid-wing aircraft or lighter-than-air aircraft. In some major cities, police rotary-wing aircraft are also used as air transportation for personnel belonging to SWAT-style units. In large, sparsely populated areas, fixed-wing aircraft are sometimes used to transport personnel and equipment.\n\nThe first police aviation department was established in New York City in 1919 with two fixed-wing aircraft. Fixed-wing aircraft have generally been replaced by more versatile rotary-wing aircraft since the late 1940s. However, fixed-wing aircraft are still used in some missions, such as border patrol, as their higher speed and greater operating altitude allow larger areas to be covered.\n\nIn 1921, the British airship R33 was used to help the police with traffic control around horse racing events at Epsom and Ascot.\n\nA large mural on the side of St. George's Town Hall in the East End of London depicting the 1936 Battle of Cable Street public order incident includes the police autogyro, that was present during the incident, overhead.\n\nThe most common form of police rotary-wing aircraft is the helicopter, but other types of rotary-wing aircraft such as autogyros are also used. The Groen Hawk 4 autogyro was used during the 2002 Winter Olympics in Salt Lake City, Utah.\n\nPolice rotary-wing aircraft are normally equipped with special equipment, including night vision, FLIR, surveillance cameras, radar, special radio systems and engines, loudspeaker systems, tear gas dispensers, searchlights, winches and winch cables, flashing light beacons, police rescue equipment and special seating. Weapons are not usually attached to the aircraft. Police rotary-wing aircraft are sometimes equipped to perform multiple functions, or are designed so that equipment can be changed quickly when required for divergent roles. For example, a rotary-wing aircraft could be used for search-and-rescue, and then as an air ambulance.\n\nPolice forces sometimes use military surplus rotary-wing aircraft, such as the Bell UH-1 Huey. Some policing organisations, such as the Policía Federal in Mexico, acquire new military rotary-wing aircraft such as the Sikorsky UH-60 Black Hawk. However, most buy civilian rotary-wing aircraft directly from major aircraft companies or lease them from specialty suppliers.\n\nSome police air units also use fixed-wing aircraft, which allow higher and quieter surveillance, making it less likely that suspects will become aware they are being watched. A few police air units, such as the Northern Territory Police in Australia, use only fixed-wing aircraft. The use of fixed-wing aircraft also allows for longer flying times and incurs lower running costs. Fixed-wing aircraft are also used to transport prisoners, with the Justice Prisoner and Alien Transportation System (nicknamed \"\"Con Air\"\") perhaps being the largest example of this use. Fixed-wing aircraft are also used to provide regular police patrols in remote communities and to transport investigators to remote crime scenes. Light-sport aircraft and powered parachutes can sometimes be used to provide a cost-effective replacement for helicopters in the observation platform role.\n\nThe Edgley Optica was a British fixed-wing aircraft built for observation use and was used by the Hampshire Constabulary as an alternative to rotary-wing aircraft. The Britten-Norman Defender is used by the Greater Manchester Police, the Police Service of Northern Ireland and the Garda Síochána. The FBI deployed one Britten-Norman Defender for electronic aerial surveillance at the Branch Davidian compound during the Waco siege in 1993. In Greater London, the Metropolitan Police Service has, for a number of years, reportedly been secretly using Cessna aircraft that have been fitted with surveillance equipment capable of intercepting mobile telephone calls and listening in on conversations.\n\nPolice blimps were used to patrol the sky during the 2004 Republican National Convention, the 1996 Atlanta Olympic Games and the 2004 Athens Olympic Games. The blimp \"Santos-Dumont\", named for Alberto Santos-Dumont, operates in the Caribbean for the Special Anti-Crime Unit of Trinidad & Tobago (SAUTT), providing security surveillance. During April 2009, this blimp provided aerial surveillance of the 5th Summit of the Americas in Port-of-Spain. Greater Manchester Police began trial operations of a blimp in 2010 to provide surveillance for major events, which would be a cheaper alternative to the use of a helicopter in the long term. However, the blimp was only used on 18 occasions because of weather-related operational problems.\n\nPolice in some areas have started using unmanned aerial vehicles, or drones, for surveillance operations. Unmanned aerial vehicles come in both fixed-wing and rotary-wing types.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2059854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059854", "title": "T28", "text": "T28\n\nT28 may be:\n\n"}
{"id": "2059863", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059863", "title": "Sauber C9", "text": "Sauber C9\n\nThe Sauber C9 (later named the Sauber Mercedes C9 or Mercedes-Benz C9) is a Group C prototype race car introduced in 1987 as a continuation of the partnership between Sauber as a constructor and Mercedes-Benz as an engine builder for the World Sportscar Championship. The C9 replaced the Sauber C8.\n\nThe C9 was a development of Sauber's previous C8 design, retaining a monocoque that largely consisted of aluminium, although considerably stiffer and with numerous other improvements. The rear suspension changed from vertically positioned spring/damper units arranged over the top of the gearbox to a horizontal layout aligned with the longitudinal axis of the car. Aerodynamic changes included the repositioning of the combination of oil/water radiator to the nose of the car, which allowed the use of a modified splitter plate. Commensurate with the repositioning of the radiators, the large NACA ducts were removed from the top of the door sills. The rear deck had been considerably re-profiled and the rear wing was now mounted solely on a central support. Aerodynamically, the car had two configurations: one for sprint circuits and a low drag version for the 5.8 kilometre Mulsanne Straight at Le Mans. In its sprint configuration, it produced of downforce at 320 km/h (200 mph) while generating of drag. The spring circuit configuration had a L/D ratio of 4:1 while the low drag version was around 3:1. The early engines were again prepared by Swiss engine specialist, Heini Mader, though this is now known to have been a cover for Mercedes back door involvement with the project later on. It had been progressively lightened with the use of a new crankshaft, higher efficiency KKK turbochargers and a liner-less block. It was a semi-stressed part of the chassis and ran a dry sump. There were no special qualifying engines and on 2.2 bar of boost it was said to be rated at \"almost \". Maximum race boost was 1.9 bar. Maximum RPM was 7,000 but drivers generally kept to 6,500 during races. The torque curve was almost uniform between 3,000 and 6,000 rpm, giving the engine plenty of flexibility. The engine retained a cross plane crankshaft and the firing order was 1-5-4-8-6-3-7-2. Later M119HL engines were sourced from the Mercedes engine facility at Untertürkheim, supervised by Hermann Hiereth. The addition of 16 valve heads in 1989 took power up by about to around at 1.6 bar and 7,000 RPM. The increase in fuel efficiency meant absolute power could also be taken from just under 800 hp with 2.2 bar of boost to about .\n\nFor its debut season in 1987, the cars were run by Kouros Racing, named after the fragrance brand of its parent company, Yves Saint Laurent, although backed by Mercedes-Benz in a semi-official capacity. The deal was to last five races. The team managed a mere twelfth in the teams standings, scoring points in only a single round. For 1988, the sponsorship deal with Kouros was not renewed and the team was renamed Sauber Mercedes. This coincided with a change of senior management at Mercedes and the announcement in January by new deputy chairman Prof. Dr Werner Niefer that the company would support Group C sportscars. As a result, Mercedes was sponsored by AEG-Olympia – AEG being owned by Daimler-Benz at the time, effectively giving the team full factory support. The team's management was bolstered by former BMW M team manager Jochen Neerpasch and Swiss former driver Max Welti. They managed to finish second in the championship behind the Jaguar XJR-9 with five wins for the season. Unfortunately at the 24 Hours of Le Mans, the team suffered an embarrassing setback when they were forced to withdraw due to concern over their Michelin tyres after Klaus Niedzwiedz suffered a blow out at high speed.\n\nFinally, in 1989, the car was able to achieve great success. Besides replacing the black colour scheme with Mercedes' traditional plain silver scheme and reducing AEG to the role of minor sponsor, the older M117 5.0 L turbocharged V8 engine was upgraded to the M119, which replaced steel heads with new four-valve aluminium heads. The engine had a Group C capacity equivalence of 8.454 litres. The C9 was able to win all but one race in the 1989 season, including the 24 Hours of Le Mans. During qualifying, the Baldi/Acheson/Brancatelli C9 recorded a speed of 400 km/h (248 mph) on the Mulsanne Straight. In spite of this, it was the car of Schlesser/Jabouille/Cudini which occupied pole position on race day. The Sauber C9s would go on to finish first, second and fifth in the race. Mercedes driver Jean-Louis Schlesser would end up taking the driver's championship that season.\n\nThe C9 would be replaced by the Mercedes-Benz C11 from the second race onwards of the 1990 season, when it took one final win in the first race.\n\nThe Sauber C9 did not enjoy a lot of success in 1987, its first season, finishing on only three occasions. The car's speed potential was made clear when Johnny Dumfries set a lap record at Le Mans before retiring with gearbox failure. Mike Thackwell also took pole position at Spa. Schlesser won the final race of the year, the non-championship Nurburgring Supercup, which was the only win in an otherwise bleak season for the Swiss-German team.\n\nThe C9 won five races in the 1988 World Sportscar Championship, showing much-improved reliability and placing second in the overall standings behind the winning Silk Cut Jaguar team. Drivers Schlesser, Baldi and Mass finished second, third and fifth respectively behind Jaguar's Martin Brundle in the driver's championship. In the 1989 World Sportscar Championship, the Sauber C9 won all except the second race at Dijon Prenois, where they were defeated by the Joest Porsche 962 of Bob Wollek and Frank Jelinski. Sauber drivers also filled the top four spots in the drivers standings with Schlesser winning the championship outright. High performance was only one notable aspect of the C9s ability; its reliability was another. The car failed to finish only twice in the 1989 season but on both occasions, the race was won by the other team car.\n\nReaching 400 km/h (248.0 mph) during the qualifying sessions of the 1989 24 Hours of Le Mans, the Sauber C9 proved to have one of the highest top speeds in the history of the competition at Le Mans. The C9's mark was only exceeded by the WM Peugeot P88, which achieved a speed of 405 km/h (251.1 mph) in the 1988 race. These speeds led to the introduction of two chicanes on the Mulsanne Straight from 1990 onwards.\n\n Points also scored by the Sauber C11\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2059890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059890", "title": "Juan Antonio Pezet", "text": "Juan Antonio Pezet\n\nJuan Antonio Pezet (11 June 1809 – 24 March 1879) was a Peruvian military officer and politician who served in the positions of Secretary of War, First Vice President and the 26th and 28th President of Peru throughout his life. As President, his moderate and cautious attitude towards the occupation of the Chincha Islands by a Spanish Fleet in 1864 was used as an excuse to launch a military uprising that drove him out of power.\n\nJuan Antonio Pezet Rodriguez Piedra was born in Lima, Peru, the son of Dr. Jose Pezet Monel, a physician, journalist, literary and parliamentarian who was among the enterprising heroes of Peru's independence. His French-born grandfather, Antoine Pezet Eustache, had arrived in Lima in 1765. As a boy, Pezet briefly entered the Jesuit College of San Carlos. When General José de San Martín with the Chilean army obliged the viceroy to evacuate Lima in 1821, young Pezet joined the patriots and took part in the campaign as sub-lieutenant. In 1823, he was promoted to lieutenant, and under Bolívar and Sucre, he fought at Junín and Ayacucho.\n\nHe became captain in 1828, and in 1835, as colonel of the battalion of sharp-shooters of Rimac, he took part in the rising of President Agustín Gamarra against the Peru-Bolivian Confederacy and was banished.\n\nAfter his return, he was appointed prefect of Lima and took part in the revolution of Vivanco in 1843. During the revolt, he was appointed Inspector-General of the Army and Prefect of La Libertad. He was wounded and taken prisoner in 1844 but was pardoned, became prefect of Arequipa in 1847, and in 1848 was made general-in-chief of the division of the south and prefect of Moquegua.\n\nUnder President Echenique in 1853, he was appointed inspector-general and chief of the Army of the South during the invasion of Bolivia.\n\nIn 1859, Pezet was secretary of war; in 1862, he was elected first vice-president with General San Román, assuming the presidency following the death of the latter in 1863. During his administration, the difficulties with Spain, which culminated in the occupation of the Chincha Islands on 14 April 1864, began.\n\nBut when he signed a treaty with the Spaniards on 27 January 1865, which was considered derogatory to Peruvian national honor, a general uprising followed, so on November 7, 1865, he delivered the executive office to the vice-president and retired to Europe, settling in Richmond, England. He returned in 1871 and lived in retirement in Chorrillos until his death.\n"}
{"id": "2059906", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059906", "title": "Arul Nool", "text": "Arul Nool\n\nThe Arul Nool is a supplement to the Akilattirattu Ammanai, and is likewise considered a holy scripture of Ayyavazhi. This book contains the collection of messages given by Ayya Vaikundar to his Disciples (\"Citars\" or \"Arulalarkal\"), whose names are unknown. Since they are believed to be composed by \"Arylalarkar\", it acquired the name \"Arulnool\". There is no direct indication within the book regarding the time of its composition. \n\nWithin this literature, \"Ukappadippu\", \"Ucchippadippu\", \"Vazhappadippu\" and \"Pothippu\" are prayer formulae used for worship. \"Chattu Nittolai\" is a book that is said to contain the Lamentations of Ayya Vaikundar. It laments on the sufferings of Ayya Vaikundar and the sanar people. There are also views that Ayya Vaikundar himself sang the content of this book when he came from Thiruchendur. \"Ayya Cicarukku chonna pathiram, Ayya Cicarukku chonna Sivakanta atikara pathiram\" and \"Tinkalpatam\" are instructions given to people on various aspects of life, including the conduct of worship. The instructions found in these are generally rephrasings of those that are given in \"Akilathirattu\". \"Natuthirvai Ula\" is a set of predictions for the day of judgment, and \"Kalyana Vazhthu\" is a song of felicitation to be sung during marriages in honour of the couples. \"Saptha kannimar padal\" is another formulation of the story of Seven Virgins given in \"Akilathirattu\", and \"Panchatevar Urpatthi\" is about five folk deities named \"Sivaimargal\", believed to be the soldiers of Ayya Vaikundar.\n\nThe word \"Ukappadippu\" in Tamil means \"The song of the Aeon\". It is present in Arul Nool. This \"Ukappatippu\" is not to be confused with \"Uccippadippu\", the noon Prayer. The \"Ukappadippu\" consists of six verses, and each was chanted eleven times by the devotees in \"Pathis\" and \"Nizhal Thangals\" twice a day; at dawn and at dusk after the \"Panividai\".\n\nThe word \"Ucchippadippu\" in Tamil means \"Things to be chanted at noontide\". This \"Ucchippatippu\" is not to be confused with \"Ukappatippu\" (see above). The \"Ucchippadippu\" is the noon prayer chanted in Ayyavazhi \"Pathis\" and \"Nizhal Thangals\", exactly at 12:00 noon. This is also found in Arul Nool.\n\nThe \"Panchathevar Urppatthi\" section explains the situation and the way by which the \"Sivaimar\" were created. The \"Natuttheervai Ula\" section details the happenings of the day of final judgment. The \"Kalyana Vazhthu\" is the ballad which was sung during the marriages of the followers of Ayyavazhi. Most of the lines of this part are extracts from Akilam.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2059917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059917", "title": "Renntech", "text": "Renntech\n\nRenntech is a Florida company established in 1989 by Hartmut Feyhl. It is best known for performance modifications of Mercedes-AMG automobiles.\n\nFeyhl had spent 12 years at AMG well before the tuning company became part of Mercedes-Benz in 1999, serving as that company's North American technical director and acting as a driving force behind the \"AMG Hammer\"—an iconic early 1990s automobile which was, for a time, the fastest production sedan on earth, with a top speed approaching 300 km/h.\n\nOver the years, Feyhl and company have developed high-performance products for virtually all Mercedes-Benz AMG vehicles (including the commercial Mercedes-Benz Sprinter van). While most famous for Feyhl's powerful engines, pizza-sized brake kits, and sporting suspension know-how, Renntech is in fact a full-line aftermarket supplier that offers everything from shift knobs and steering wheels to complete cars - most notable among these are the 200 mph Renntech E7.4RS (which was called fastest sedan in the world by Car and Driver in 1996) and the 2006 \"Chrome SL\" showcar—an SL-based project entirely covered in chrome. Each of these vehicles featured extreme performance, upgraded luxury features, and a fit and finish that met or beat the Mercedes factory cars.\n\nFollowing the 1998 merger of Daimler-Benz and Chrysler Corp. (which became \"DaimlerChrysler\"), Renntech began expanding into the Chrysler category - beginning with the Chrysler Crossfire, a car based heavily on Mercedes-Benz SLK components (a logical move, as Chryslers began to utilize more Mercedes-Benz parts, more of Renntech's components became compatible).\n\nMore recently, however, Renntech has begun to offer products for other marques as well - specifically product for Porsche, Volkswagen, and Audi vehicles. These product offerings, while less exhaustive than Renntech's Mercedes offerings, focus on Renntech's core competencies: engine tuning, braking, and suspension, with an emphasis on the higher-end Audis and Porsche SUVs.\n\nHistorically, Renntech has been a prominent Mercedes-Benz specialist, and Feyhl himself is regarded by many as the USA's foremost authority on Mercedes tuning. Renntech's high-performance cars are often featured on the covers of major automotive magazines, including Car and Driver , eMercedesBenz , Motor Trend , AutoWeek , Modified Luxury & Exotics and others. In a feature article on Ray Durham's Renntech modified SL55, Modified Luxury & Exotics refers to Renntech as, \"one of the foremost Mercedes-Benz tuners in the world.\n\nIt is a division that makes racing karts, based on the Aixro XR50 rotary engines.\n\nMercedez-Benz\nSmart\nMaybach\nAIXRO\n\n"}
{"id": "2059918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059918", "title": "Ansel Briggs", "text": "Ansel Briggs\n\nAnsel Briggs (February 3, 1806May 5, 1881) was an American pioneer who rose from a stagecoach driver to a member of the Iowa Territorial House of Representatives (1842–1846) and the first Governor of Iowa (1846–1850).\n\nAnsel Briggs was born in Shoreham, Vermont, to farmer Benjamin Ingley Briggs and Electa Trippman Briggs. Briggs's education started in the common schools of Vermont and continued at the Norwich Academy in Connecticut.\n\nWhile still a young man, Briggs moved with his parents to Guernsey County, Ohio, where his father farmed in 1821–1825. After Benjamin Briggs died in an accident, his widow relocated to Cambridge, Ohio, and Ansel lived there for the next six years, entering a stagecoach business. He married Nancy M. Dunlap on November 11, 1830. Ansel served as Township Constable, Deputy Sheriff, and Jailor of Guernsey County; he ran, as a Whig party candidate, unsuccessfully for the office of County Auditor for the Guernsey County, Ohio.\n\nAfter hearing of all the opportunities, Briggs traveled in 1839 to what was called Andrew Jackson County in the Territory of Iowa which was shortened to Jackson County soon after. Once settled he resumed his stagecoach business, starting by driving the coaches himself much of the time. The opportunities to expand in the new territory were immense. He soon secured contracts with the Post Office Department transporting mail between Dubuque and the cities of Davenport and Iowa City, this led to more routes, expanding his business. In 1839, Briggs moved to Andrew, Iowa, a recently mapped-out town, purchasing many of the empty lots and then reselling them. He was considered a good citizen making many town improvements, building roads and commercial buildings. His stone house, on N Johnson St. in Andrew, is still inhabited to this day. His family used to have a home and mill near Brush Creek north of Andrew at a place known as Bluff Mills, which is a popular public fishing area now, even though the house and mill are now gone.\n\nWhen Briggs came to Iowa, he had decided to be recognized as a Democrat politically. Because his business caused him to travel to many parts of the Iowa Territory, Briggs became well known. This plus his readiness to be involved in public affairs made it easy for him to be chosen as a member of the Fifth Territorial Assembly from Jackson County in 1842. He served on the Committee on Enrolled Bills and chaired the Committee on Territorial Affairs. Briggs continued to be a representative until 1846. Briggs also served as Jackson County deputy treasurer (1843-1844) and was elected a Sheriff of Jackson County in 1844 for a two-year term.\n\nDuring the formation of a state government for Iowa, Briggs was nominated to run on Democratic ticket. He faced during primary vote two well known Democratic opponents — Judge Jesse Williams of Jefferson County, Iowa, who was a Secretary of Iowa Territory, and William Thompson of Henry County, Iowa, secretary of the 1846 Iowa state constitutional convention. Briggs's campaign was centered on the promise of no outside businesses, including banks, having influence in his administration. He had once made a toast at a political banquet, \"No banks but earth, and they well tilled\". This became his gubernatorial campaign slogan. The Democratic convention was held in Iowa City on September 24, 1846. The vote for Democratic candidacy for governor resulted in Briggs getting sixty-two votes, Jesse Williams receiving thirty-two, and William Thompson, thirty-one. Williams and Thompson withdrew and Briggs was chosen by acclamation. The election for Iowa's first governor was held on October 28, 1846, with Briggs winning with 7,626 votes over his opponent Thomas McKnight, a Dubuque lawyer running on a Whig ticket, who received 7,379 votes. On December 28, 1846, Iowa became the 29th state in the Union when President James K. Polk signed Iowa's admission bill into law.\n\nIn the cause of inauguration, Governor Briggs said, \"From my want of experience in the affairs of civil administration, I must naturally feel a great degree of embarrassment in my present position; but that feeling will be greatly lessened from the hope and belief which I entertain, that in your character of representatives of an enlightened constituency, you will kindly extend to me your aid and indulgence.\" True to his campaign promise of no outsider influence, he sold his contracts with the Post Office Department and his administration was praised as, \"one void of any special interest . . .exhibited an independence of principle, characteristic of his nature\". During his term, the formation of the state government was initiated and a state school system was organized. Briggs's administration laid the groundwork of Iowa transportation infrastructure: planning and building roads, bridges, and railroads. The Missouri-Iowa boundary dispute which caused a great deal of excited controversy and even almost resorted to arms was resolved in 1848 with the help of his skillful diplomacy. When his term ended in 1850, Briggs retired from state politics.\n\nAfter his term as Governor ended Briggs returned to his residence and businesses in Jackson County, Iowa. He became involved in parts farther west in the country: in 1860, he made a trip to Colorado during the mining excitement of the time and in 1863, Briggs with his son John Shannon Briggs and a large group went to the state of Montana, where he remained involved in mining until 1865 when he returned to Iowa. In 1870 he moved to Council Bluffs, Iowa, and later was one of the founders of the town of Florence, Nebraska. In 1881 after a very brief illness Briggs died at his son John's residence in Omaha, Nebraska, due to ulceration of the stomach. His death was greatly mourned all over Iowa. Governor Gear issued a proclamation reciting his services to the State, and ordering half-hour guns to be fired and the national flag on the State capitol to be put at half-mast during the day of the funeral. In 1909, the General Assembly of Iowa voted to erect a monument in Andrew, Iowa, to \"the stage driver who became Governor.\"\n\nAlthough he was originally buried in Omaha, Nebraska, he was re-interred in 1909 in the Andrew Cemetery, Andrew, Iowa.\n\nBriggs was married twice. His first wife, Nancy M. Dunlap, whom he married on November 11, 1830, died December 30, 1847; out of their five children only one lived to adulthood. On October 27, 1849, he married a widow Nancy Carpenter, who died in 1859; together they had no children but Briggs took her three children from previous marriage into his household.\n\nBorn in Vermont, Ansel Briggs through his life lived in the states of Ohio, Iowa, Nebraska, Colorado, and Montana joining the western march to settle and develop new lands. He farmed with his father, was a stagecoach driver, became engaged in mining and land developing. Briggs early realized importance of public service and held different public offices, from sheriff to a member of the Iowa Territorial House of Representatives eventually becoming the first Governor of Iowa. As a public servant, he earned \"a reputation for dedication, frugality, and honesty.\" While Governor of Iowa, he oversaw the formation of the government bodies of Iowa, the state's school system, and diplomatically avoided an armed border dispute with the state of Missouri. Content with his accomplishments as governor, he declined running for a second term and returned to his business interests.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2059919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059919", "title": "Washington, D.C. (novel)", "text": "Washington, D.C. (novel)\n\nWashington, D.C. is a 1967 novel by Gore Vidal. The sixth novel in his \"Narratives of Empire\" series of historical novels (although the first one published), it begins in 1937 and continues into the Cold War, tracing the families of Senator James Burden Day and influential newspaper publisher Blaise Sanford.\n\nThis book is the least historical and most novelistic of any of the seven books. \"The Golden Age\", the seventh book in the series, takes place during nearly the same span of years with many of the same characters, and needed to be written around the events of \"Washington D.C.\"\n\nThe novel is written in the third person and is inspired by the novels of Henry James.\n"}
{"id": "2059937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059937", "title": "Preemption Act of 1841", "text": "Preemption Act of 1841\n\nThe Preemption Act of 1841, also known as the Distributive Preemption Act (27 Cong., Ch. 16; ), was a United States federal law approved on September 4, 1841. It was designed to \"\"appropriate the proceeds of the sales of public lands... and to grant 'pre-emption rights' to individuals\"\" who were living on federal lands (commonly referred to as \"squatters\"). \n\nThe Preemption Act of 1841 permitted \"squatters\" who were living on federal government-owned land to purchase up to for $1.25 per acre, or $3.09 per hectare, before the land was to be offered for sale to the general public. To qualify under the law, the \"squatter\" had to be: \nThe act further provided that Ohio, Indiana, Illinois, Alabama, Missouri, Mississippi, Louisiana, Arkansas and Michigan, or any state thereafter admitted to the Union, would be paid 10% of the proceeds from the sale of such public land. \n\nThe Preemption Act allowed individuals to claim federal land as their personal property. To preserve ownership, the claimant had to accomplish specific things to legitimize the claim. One way was to reside on the land. Another was to consistently work to improve the land (for a minimum of five years). It was not necessary that the claimant have title to the land; living there and working toward improving the stake was enough. If, however, the land remained idle for six months, the government could step in and take the property.\n\nSections 8 and 9 of the Preemption Act granted 500,000 acres of land to each included State and provided that the proceeds from the sales of such lands \"shall be faithfully applied to objects of internal improvement [...] namely, roads, railways, bridges, canals and improvement of water-courses, and draining of swamps.\"\n\nThe Preemption Act of 1841 helped to establish the doctrine of Manifest Destiny in North America. The Kansas and Nebraska Territories were largely settled by such claims. In 1891, the Preemption Act was repealed by Congress and replaced by the Land Revision Act.\n\n"}
{"id": "2059938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059938", "title": "Ministry of Supply", "text": "Ministry of Supply\n\nThe Ministry of Supply (MoS) was a department of the UK Government formed in 1939 to co-ordinate the supply of equipment to all three British armed forces, headed by the Minister of Supply. There was, however, a separate ministry responsible for aircraft production, and the Admiralty retained responsibilities for supplying the Royal Navy. During the war years the MoS was based at Shell Mex House in The Strand, London.\n\nThe Ministry of Supply also took over all army research establishments in 1939. The Ministry of Aircraft Production was abolished in 1946, and the MoS took over its responsibilities for aircraft, including the associated research establishments. In the same year it also took on increased responsibilities for atomic weapons, including the H-bomb development programme.\n\nThe Ministry of Supply was abolished in late 1959 and its responsibilities passed to the Ministry of Aviation, the War Office and the Air Ministry. The latter two ministries were subsequently merged with the Admiralty to form the Ministry of Defence.\n\nThe Ministry of Supply instigated the Rainbow Codes designation system. This assigned projects a two-word codename, the first word being a colour and the second a noun. As a result, secret weapon projects—including numerous nuclear weapons—were given lighthearted names such as Green Cheese, Blue Slug or Red Duster.\n\nThe Ministry of Supply was responsible for building and running the Royal Ordnance Factories which produced explosives and propellants; filled ammunition; and constructed guns and rifles. However, the Ministry of Works and/or private building contractors acted as agents during their construction. The Ministry was also responsible for the supply of tanks and other armoured fighting vehicles, and had a Department of Tank Design where Edward Brisch worked from 1942. Tanks were, however, also designed and built by private arms companies, such as William Beardmore and Company and Vickers, as well as other engineering companies.\n\nThe Ministry of Supply also arranged for the construction of a large number of agency factories which were run on its behalf by private companies, such as Nobel Industries. These were similar to the Royal Ordnance Factories but were not part of the Royal Ordnance Factory organisation.\n\nThe Ministry of Supply was also responsible for the labour force of these factories, although the Ministry of Labour did the recruitment. From the middle of the war onwards the Ministry of Supply was in direct competition with the Ministry of Aircraft Production for labour and the two organisations had to reach agreement. Towards the end of the war the Ministry of Supply released labour so that they could transfer to the Ministry of Aircraft Production.\n\nFrom the beginning of the Second World War the army research establishments were put under the control of the Ministry of Supply. It was through the MoS that the essential connections were made between military requirements and the scientists and engineers of the civil service, industry, and academia (many academics were recruited into the civil service on a temporary basis). Examples include:\n\n\nMoreover, the Dutch Defence Chemical Laboratory escaped the German occupation of the Netherlands. On 14 May 1940 archives and key personnel were moved to London. The 'Centraal Laboratorium, afdeling Londen' (Central Laboratory, London department) was established and fell under the supervision of the Dutch authorities on the one hand, and on the other hand under the Ministry of Supply which provided housing and materials. \n\nFollowing the Second World War, the post-war Ministry of Supply was created on 1 April 1946 as a result of the amalgamation of the former Ministry of Supply and the Ministry of Aircraft Production. The functions and responsibilities of the new department remained basically the same as its predecessors.\n\nLater in the same year, the MoS took over the responsibility for atomic weapons research. Lord Portal was appointed as Controller of Production (Atomic Energy); and in 1950 the High Explosive Research Establishment at Fort Halstead was renamed the Atomic Weapons Research Establishment (AWRE), with William Penney as its first Director.\n\nThe atomic energy research function was relinquished in 1954 when the UK Atomic Energy Authority was set up, although the Ministry of Supply retained responsibility for the control of atomic weapons. The AWRE moved from Fort Halstead to Aldermarston in 1955.\n\nImmediately after the war, aviation research establishments joined the army ones under Ministry of Supply control, and further new research establishments were developed during the Cold War era. Among the Ministry of Supply research establishments (in addition to HERE and AWRE mentioned above) were :\n\n\nThe bill to abolish the Ministry of Supply was passed on 12 November 1959 at which time the Ministry of Aviation was created to look after both civilian and military aviation interests. Under the order the Ministry of Supply took over the aviation interests of the Ministry of Transport and Civil Aviation and was renamed the Ministry of Aviation, this enabling it to look after both civil and military aviation interests (across army, navy and RAF) as well as guided missiles, radar, nuclear weapons and munitions for aircraft. The bulk of other procurement functions including cross-service procurement were transferred out of the new Ministry of Aviation to the War Office. The Air Ministry regained procurement powers (except for aircraft) that had been transferred to the Ministry of Aircraft Production in 1940 and transferred to the Ministry of Supply in 1946. The procurement powers of the Admiralty were largely unaffected, though their aircraft would now be supplied via the Ministry of Aviation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2059942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059942", "title": "David Nelson (actor)", "text": "David Nelson (actor)\n\nDavid Oswald Nelson (October 24, 1936 – January 11, 2011) was an American actor, director, and producer.\n\nDavid Oswald Nelson was born October 24, 1936 in New York City. Nelson was the elder son of entertainment couple Harriet Hilliard Nelson (born Peggy Lou Snyder; July 18, 1909 – October 2, 1994) and Ozzie Nelson (March 20, 1906 – June 3, 1975). He was the older brother of singer Eric Hilliard \"Ricky\" Nelson (May 8, 1940 – December 31, 1985). In late 1941, Nelson moved with his parents from Tenafly, New Jersey to Los Angeles, California. Infant brother Ricky stayed behind with his paternal grandmother until 1942 when the family was settled. \n\nAlong with his brother and their parents, Nelson appeared on the long-running sitcom \"The Adventures of Ozzie and Harriet\" in the 1950s and 1960s. Late in the run of the series, Nelson directed several episodes. After the series' end, he continued acting, directing and producing. His most memorable 'break-out' performance was in the 1959 thriller \"The Big Circus\", wherein Nelson played a disturbed, apparently homicidal 'troubled youth', while his last film appearance was in the campier \"Cry-Baby\" (1990). For his contribution to the motion picture industry, Nelson was honored with a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame at 1501 Vine Street, on May 9, 1996.\n\nHe attended Hollywood High School, balancing his studies, playing on the football team and his TV work. He later attended the University of Southern California and was a member of Kappa Sigma fraternity.\n\nNelson had two sons—Daniel Blair and James Eric—from his first marriage with June Blair, which ended in divorce, and adopted two sons and a daughter—John, Eric, and Teri—during his second marriage, to Yvonne Huston.\n\nNelson died on January 11, 2011, in Century City, California, from complications of colon cancer.\n\nNelson was cremated and chose not to be interred in the Nelson family plot in Forest Lawn Memorial Park in Hollywood Hills, California, instead choosing a niche in Westwood Memorial Park's outdoor Garden of Serenity columbarium. \n\n"}
{"id": "2059945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059945", "title": "Declaration of Love", "text": "Declaration of Love\n\n愛の瑄言 *精選輯 (py. Ài de Xuān Yán *Jīngxuǎn Jì) is a compilation album by Taiwanese singer/actress/model Vivian Hsu, released in March 2001 on the BMG label. It contains a selection of tracks from all five of Vivian's albums released on the BMG label: 大麻煩, 不敗の戀人, its Japanese translation Fuhai no Koibito, its Taiwanese special edition Happy Past Days, and 假扮的天使.. It is also the last Vivian album produced by BMG.\n\nThe second CD also contains two video tracks.\n\nCatalog number: 74321-855092\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2059953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059953", "title": "Saingilo", "text": "Saingilo\n\nSaingilo () is a cultural region in the Caucasus. The term was invented in the nineteenth century to designate districts of Balakan, Zaqatala and Qakh — altogether an area of 4,780 km — currently part of Azerbaijan, with a large Ingiloy Georgian minority.\n\nInitially this territory was a province of Caucasian Albania. With decline of Caucasian Albania, the area was gradually incorporated into the Iberian kingdom forming one of its duchies (saeristavo) in the 5th century and its peoples were eventually assimilated into the Georgians proper. This was when the name \"Hereti\" first appeared in the Georgian sources. According to traditional accounts, the name of the province originated from the legendary patriarch \"Heros\", the son of Thargamos, who founded the city of Hereti (later known as Khoranta) at the Alazani River. \n\nDuring the Arab occupation the region was a separate kingdom within Georgian cultural and political influence. At that time, Hereti became part of the Kingdom of Kakheti. The latter was annexed to Georgian Kingdom in 1104. After the displacement, during the early medieval period, of the central government from southern Georgia (Tao-Klarjeti) to eastern Georgia, these principalities came to play an especially significant role. In the fifteenth century the term \"Hereti\" gradually disappeared from the political nomenclature and was replaced by the word \"Kakheti,\" which referred to Kakheti proper plus Hereti.\n\nIn the Middle Ages seven Georgian schools operated in Saingilo which included the courses of theology, philosophy, orthography, church history, and the history of Georgia and for the students. These schools played an essential cultural and educational. They put a vital contribution in establishing cultural relations among the peoples of the Caucasus. Literary materials were prepared in the schools for diffusion in the northern Caucasus. In the thirteenth to fourteenth centuries the use of the Georgian alphabet and Georgian Christian literature spread from Saingilo to the neighboring province of Dagestan, and churches were founded there, remnants of which can be seen today. For a long time, beginning in the fifth century, a significant part of Dagestan was within the sphere of Georgian political influence.\n\nIn the early 17th century, Shah Abbas I of Safavid of Persia took these lands from the king of Kakheti and granted them to the Dagestani feudal clans who enjoyed a degree of autonomy (society Djar-Belakan, the sultanate of Elisu). Northern Caucasian mountaineers established there Avarian (in the Ch'ar-Belakan District) and Tsakhurian \"free communes.\" As a result of raids (Lekianoba) conducted by bands of Avar and Tsakhur warriors in Saingilo, the Ingilos became serfs of the Dagestanian rulers, who forced them to make pay tribute. Some Dagestanian families hired themselves out as temporary workers on Ingilo farms. In this way, gradually, by peaceful or hostile means, these tribes settled in Saingilo and colonized it. Already after the foundation of the sultanate of Elisu the conquerors had, by a concerted effort, undertaken the Islamization of the region. After 1801, when the Kingdom of Kartli-Kakheti (eastern Georgia) became part of the Russian Empire the region ended up in the Imperial Russian conquest in 1803. After dissolving Sultanate of İlisu, it was initially part of Jaro-Belokany region, latterly became Zakatal Okrug in Tiflis Governorate.\n\nFrom 1918 to 1920 both Democratic Republic of Georgia (DRG) and Azerbaijan Democratic Republic (ADR) claimed its territory as theirs, but the dispute never led to an armed confrontation. On 26 June 1918, the National Council of the Zakataly Okrug issued a statement whereby \"for cultural, economic and religious reasons [...] joining the Republic of Azerbaijan is the most appropriate solution for the Zakatala Okrug\". Zakatala was represented in the Parliament of Azerbaijan by three members. After the fall of the ADR in 1920 and its Sovietisation, Soviet Russia recognized Zakatala as part of Georgia (whose government granted these lands a degree of internal autonomy) \"in exchange for the Georgian government legalising the activity of the Communist Party of Georgia\", according to Kvashonkin. Following the Sovietization of Georgia in 1921, the area became again officially part of Azerbaijan by a decree issued by the central communist government in Moscow in 1922. Nowadays there are Georgians — Ingiloy people (; ) — living in this region of Azerbaijan (districts of Qax, Balakan and Zaqatala). Ingiloys (more than 11,000 as of 1999) are an ethnographic group of Georgian people. Most of the Ingiloys residing in Qakh district remain Christians at present, those living in Balakan and Zaqatala are mostly Muslim.\n\nAccording to census held in 1897, the population of the region was 84,224. The ethnic makeup of the district was the following:\n\nAs of the census of 2009, the population of the region was 261,314. The ethnic makeup of the district was the following:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2059957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059957", "title": "Profit (real property)", "text": "Profit (real property)\n\nA profit (short for profit-à-prendre in Middle French for \"right of taking\"), in the law of real property, is a nonpossessory interest in land similar to the better-known easement, which gives the holder the right to take natural resources such as petroleum, minerals, timber, and wild game from the land of another. Indeed, because of the necessity of allowing access to the land so that resources may be gathered, every profit contains an implied easement for the owner of the profit to enter the other party's land for the purpose of collecting the resources permitted by the profit.\n\nLike an easement, profits can be created \"expressly\" by an agreement between the property owner and the owner of the profit, or by \"prescription\", where the owner of the profit has made \"open and notorious\" use of the land for a continuous and uninterrupted statutory period.\n\nA profit can be \"appurtenant\" (owned by an adjacent landowner, and tied to the use of the adjacent land) or \"in gross\".\n\nAppurtenant. An appurtenant profit may \"only\" be used by the owner of the adjacent property. A properly recorded profit will remain even if the ownership of the land upon which the profit exists changes hands.\n\nIn Gross. By contrast, a profit \"in gross\" can be assigned or otherwise transferred by its owner. Courts will construe a profit as being in gross unless the profit is expressly designated as being appurtenant. Therefore, profits by prescription will virtually always be profits in gross. Like a commercial easement in gross, a profit in gross is completely alienable. Profits can also be \"exclusive\" (guaranteeing the owner of the profit that no other person will be given the right to collect the specified resources on the land).\n\nTermination of a profit can occur by a number of means, including:\n\nIrish law governs profits by Part 8 of the 2009 Land Act.\n"}
{"id": "2059959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059959", "title": "Negative amortization", "text": "Negative amortization\n\nIn finance, negative amortization (also known as NegAm, deferred interest or graduated payment mortgage) occurs whenever the loan payment for any period is less than the interest charged over that period so that the outstanding balance of the loan increases. As an amortization method the shorted amount (difference between interest and repayment) is then added to the total amount owed to the lender. Such a practice would have to be agreed upon before shorting the payment so as to avoid default on payment. This method is generally used in an introductory period before loan payments exceed interest and the loan becomes self-amortizing. The term is most often used for mortgage loans; corporate loans with negative amortization are called PIK loans.\n\nAmortization refers to the process of paying off a debt (often from a loan or mortgage) through regular payments. A portion of each payment is for interest while the remaining amount is applied towards the principal balance. The percentage of interest versus principal in each payment is determined in an amortization schedule.\n\nNegative amortization only occurs in loans in which the periodic payment does not cover the amount of interest due for that loan period. The unpaid accrued interest is then capitalized monthly into the outstanding principal balance. The result of this is that the loan balance (or principal) increases by the amount of the unpaid interest on a monthly basis. The purpose of such a feature is most often for advanced cash management and/or more simply payment flexibility, but not to increase overall affordability.\n\nNeg-Ams also have what is called a recast period, and the recast principal balance cap is in the U.S. based on federal and state legislation. The recast period is usually 60 months (5 years). The recast principal balance cap (also known as the \"neg am limit\") is usually up to a 25% increase of the amortized loan balance over the original loan amount. States and lenders can offer products with lesser recast periods and principal balance caps; but cannot issue loans that exceed their state and federal legislated requirements under penalty of law.\n\nA newer loan option has been introduced which allows for a 40-year loan term. This makes the minimum payment even lower than a comparable 30-year term.\n\n\nAll NegAM home loans eventually require full repayment of principal and interest according to the original term of the mortgage and note signed by the borrower. Most loans only allow NegAM to happen for no more than 5 years, and have terms to \"Recast\" (see below) the payment to a fully amortizing schedule if the borrower allows the principal balance to rise to a pre-specified amount.\n\nThis loan is written often in high cost areas, because the monthly mortgage payments will be lower than any other type of financing instrument.\n\nNegative amortization loans can be high risk loans for inexperienced investors. These loans tend to be safer in a falling rate market and riskier in a rising rate market.\n\nStart rates on negative amortization or minimum payment option loans can be as low as 1%. This is the payment rate, not the actual interest rate. The payment rate is used to calculate the minimum payment. Other minimum payment options include 1.95% or more.\n\nNegAM loans today are mostly straight adjustable rate mortgages (ARMs), meaning that they are fixed for a certain period and adjust every time that period has elapsed; e.g., one month fixed, adjusting every month. The NegAm loan, like all adjustable rate mortgages, is tied to a specific financial index which is used to determine the interest rate based on the current index and the margin (the markup the lender charges). Most NegAm loans today are tied to the Monthly Treasury Average, in keeping with the monthly adjustments of this loan. There are also Hybrid ARM loans in which there is a period of fixed payments for months or years, followed by an increased change cycle, such as six months fixed, then monthly adjustable.\n\nThe graduated payment mortgage is a \"fixed rate\" NegAm loan, but since the payment increases over time, it has aspects of the ARM loan until amortizing payments are required.\n\nThe most notable differences between the traditional payment option ARM and the hybrid payment option ARM are in the start rate, also known as the \"minimum payment\" rate. On a Traditional Payment Option Arm, the minimum payment is based on a principal and interest calculation of 1% - 2.5% on average.\n\nThe start rate on a hybrid payment option ARM is higher, yet still extremely competitive payment wise.\n\nOn a hybrid payment option ARM, the minimum payment is derived using the \"interest only\" calculation of the start rate. The start rate on the hybrid payment option ARM typically is calculated by taking the fully indexed rate (actual note rate), then subtracting 3%, which will give you the start rate.\n\nExample: 7.5% fully indexed rate − 3% = 4.5% (4.5% would be the start rate on a hybrid pay option ARM)\n\nThis guideline can vary among lenders.\n\nAliases the payment option ARM loans are known by:\n\n(In general Author is using time references that are relative to a time frame that is not defined. 'Today' which is?; 'last 5 years' from when, etc.)\n\nNegative-amortization loans, being relatively popular only in the last decade, have attracted a variety of criticisms:\n\nIn a very hot real estate market a buyer may use a negative-amortizing mortgage to purchase a property with the plan to sell the property at a higher price before the end of the \"negam\" period. Therefore, an informed investor could purchase several properties with minimal monthly obligations and make a great profit over a five-year plan in a rising real-estate market.\n\nHowever, if the property values decrease, it is likely that the borrower will owe more on the property than it is worth, known colloquially in the mortgage industry as \"being underwater\". In this situation, if the property owner cannot make the new monthly payment, he or she may be faced with foreclosure or having to refinance with a very high loan-to-value ratio, requiring additional monthly obligations, such as mortgage insurance, and higher rates and payments due to the adversity of a high loan-to-value ratio.\n\nIt is very easy for borrowers to ignore or misunderstand the complications of this product when being presented with minimal monthly obligations that could be from one half to one third what other, more predictable, mortgage products require.\n"}
{"id": "2059969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059969", "title": "John Todd (abolitionist)", "text": "John Todd (abolitionist)\n\nJohn Todd (November 10, 1818 – January 31, 1894) was a U.S. Congregationalist minister, co-founder of Tabor College in Tabor, Iowa, a leading abolitionist and a 'conductor' on the Underground Railroad.\n\nJohn Todd was born November 10, 1818, in West Hanover, Pennsylvania. He was the second son and fifth child of Capt. James Todd and Sally Ainsworth Todd. The Todds' ancestors were Scotch Irish and Presbyterians, and Todd grew up attending a Presbyterian church. Todd was an early graduate of Oberlin College (Oberlin, Ohio) and its seminary (class of 1841 and 1844, respectively). In the 1850s, Todd moved West to help start an Oberlin-like school on the Iowa frontier. He was one of the founders of Tabor, in southwestern Iowa, and its Congregational Church, which he served as pastor for more than 30 years. He is also the basis for the abolitionist preacher and grandfather of John Ames, main character in Marilynne Robinson's Pulitzer Prize-winning novel, \"Gilead\" (2004).\n\nRev. Todd's home in Tabor served not only as a 'station' on the Underground Railroad, complete with a concealed room in which escaped slaves hid until their next ride arrived, but also as a storehouse of weapons, ammunition and other supplies for radical abolitionist John Brown.\n\nTodd and the other residents of Tabor generally supported Brown until he (Brown) and his men in 1857 'invaded' Missouri and forcibly freed about a dozen slaves, killing one slave-owner in the process. Brown was given safe haven in Tabor, but the citizens made it clear they did not condone his actions. Brown left soon thereafter, and had the weapons and supplies stored in Rev. Todd's basement shipped east. The 200 Sharps rifles included in the cache of weapons were used two years later in Brown's ill-fated and infamous raid on the federal arsenal at Harper's Ferry, Virginia (now West Virginia). But Rev. Todd had no knowledge of the use to which the weapons he had stored would be put, nor any involvement \nin what he termed \"the Harper's Ferry insurrection.\"\n\nTodd was also a leader in the temperance movement and was a board member of Tabor College from its founding in 1866 until his death in 1894. His home in Tabor, Todd House, is listed on the National Register of Historic Places, is operated as a museum by the Tabor Historical Society and is open for public visits.\n\n"}
{"id": "2059974", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059974", "title": "Ixia", "text": "Ixia\n\nIxia is a genus of cormous plants native to South Africa from the family Iridaceae. Some of them are known as the corn lily. Some distinctive traits include sword-like leaves and long wiry stems with star-shaped flowers. It usually prefers well-drained soil. The popular corn lily has specific, not very intense fragrance. It is often visited by many insects such as bees. The \"Ixia\" are also used sometimes as ornamental plants.\n\nThe genus name is derived from the Ancient Greek ἰξία (ixia) ( = χαμαιλέων λευκός, (chamaeleon leukos)), the pine thistle, \"Carlina gummifera\", an unrelated plant in the daisy family, Asteraceae.\n\nThe genus \"Ixia\" includes the following species:\n\n"}
{"id": "2059975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059975", "title": "Je Khenpo", "text": "Je Khenpo\n\nThe Je Khenpo (; \"The Chief Abbot of the Central Monastic Body of Bhutan\"), formerly called the Dharma Raj by orientalists, is the title given to the senior religious hierarch of Bhutan. His primary duty is to lead the Dratshang Lhentshog (Commission for the Monastic Affairs) of Bhutan, which oversees the Central Monastic Body, and to arbitrate on matters of doctrine, assisted by \"Five Lopen Rinpoches \" (learned masters). The Je Khenpo is also responsible for many important liturgical and religious duties across the country. The sitting Je Khenpo is also formally the leader of the southern branch of the Drukpa Kagyu sect, which is part of the Kagyu tradition of Himalayan Buddhism. Aside from the King of Bhutan, only the Je Khenpo may don a saffron kabney.\n\nAccording to the dual system of government established by Ngawang Namgyal in the 17th century, the powers of the government of Bhutan were ideally split between the religious branch, headed by the Je Khenpo, and the administrative branch, headed by the Druk Desi. The position of Je Khenpo was granted on merit by election, and typically was given to the most respected monk in the Dratshang Lhentshog (Commission for the Monastic Affairs). Thus, unlike reincarnation lineages such as the Dalai Lama, Zhabdrung Rinpoche, or Panchen Lama, the position of Je Khenpo was never held by a child but always by a seasoned monk.\n\nHistorically, the role of the Je Khenpo was quite powerful. The Je Khenpo and Druk Desi collaborated to disempower the office of the Zhabdrung through finding multiple incarnations of various aspects of the Zhabdrung; both the Je Khenpo and the Druk Desi wanted to retain the power they had accrued through the dual system of government. However, since the establishment of the monarchy in 1907, the relative influence of the Je Khenpo has diminished. Nonetheless, the position remains a powerful one and the Je Khenpo is typically viewed as the closest and most powerful advisor to the King of Bhutan.\n\nThe 67th Je Khenpo, Ngawang Thinley Lhundup, died at the age of 84 on 10 June 2005. He was noted as a strict disciplinarian who would not compromise any rules in managing the Central Monastic Body. In addition to his position as Je Khenpo, he was recognized as the tulku of Nyizergang, the seat of the tertön Woogpa Lingpa, in Wangdue Phodrang Province.\n\nThe 70th and present Je Khenpo is \"Tulku\" Jigme Choedra. He is believed to be the reincarnation of Maitreya as well as the mahasiddha Saraha, Hungchen Kara, Kheuchung Lotsawa, and Pema Tsering.\n\nIn 2008, the office of the Je Khenpo was codified as part of the Constitution of Bhutan. Under Article 3 Section 4, the King appoints the Je Khenpo as the spiritual leader of Bhutan on the recommendation of the Five Lopons. In turn, the Je Khenpo appoints, on the recommendation of the Dratshang Lhentshog (Commission for the Monastic Affairs), monks with the nine qualities of a spiritual master and accomplished in \"ked-dzog\" (stages of development and completion in Vajrayana practice) as the Five Lopons.\n\n"}
{"id": "2059986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059986", "title": "Merrylands railway station", "text": "Merrylands railway station\n\nMerrylands railway station is located on the Main South line, serving the Sydney suburb of Merrylands. It is served by Sydney Trains T2 Inner West & Leppington and T5 Cumberland line services.\n\nMerrylands station opened on 6 July 1878.\n\nIn 1969, the Merrylands Road level crossing to the south of the station was replaced by the Mombri Street overpass to the north. In 1972, the signal box at Merrylands closed with operations transferred to Granville signal box. On 2 November 1996, the Merrylands to Harris Park Y-Link opened allowing direct train operation between these two stations by what is now known as the Cumberland Line.\n\nThe station since underwent substantial renovations which were concluded by early 2007. Until at least the mid-1990s, sidings existed to the north-west of the station to serve a flour mill.\n\nMerrylands Bus Interchange\n\nStand 1: Transit Systems Sydney\n\nStand 2: Transit Systems Sydney\n\nStand 4: Transdev NSW\n\nStand 4 Transit Systems Sydney\n\nBus in Merrylands Road Transit Systems Sydney\n\nMerrylands station is served by one Nightride route:\n\n"}
{"id": "2059991", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059991", "title": "Agaw people", "text": "Agaw people\n\nThe Agaw ( \"Agäw\", modern \"Agew\") are a Cushitic ethnic group inhabiting Ethiopia and neighboring Eritrea. Ethnically and culturally they are part of a wider population of Cushitic peoples. They speak Agaw languages, which belong to the Cushitic branch of the Afroasiatic language family.\n\nThe Agaw are perhaps first mentioned in the third-century \"Monumentum Adulitanum\", an Aksumite inscription recorded by Cosmas Indicopleustes in the sixth century. The inscription refers to a people called \"Athagaus\" (or Athagaous), perhaps from ʿAd Agaw, meaning \"sons of Agaw.\" The Athagaous first turn up as one of the peoples conquered by the unknown king who inscribed the \"Monumentum Adulitanum\". The Agaw are later mentioned in an inscription of the fourth century emperor Ezana of Axum and the sixth-century emperor Kaleb of Axum. Based on this evidence, a number of experts embrace a theory first stated by Edward Ullendorff and Carlo Conti Rossini that they are the original inhabitants of much of the northern Ethiopian Highlands, and were either forced out of their original settlements or assimilated by Semitic-speaking Tigrayans and Amharas. Cosmas Indicopleustes also noted in his \"Christian Topography\" that a major gold trade route passed through the region \"Agau\". The area referred to seems to be an area east of the Tekezé River and just south of the Semien Mountains, perhaps around Lake Tana.\n\nThey currently exist in a number of scattered enclaves, which include the Bilen in and around Keren, Eritrea; the Qemant people (including the now-relocated Beta Israel), who live around Gondar in the North Gondar Zone of the Amhara Region, west of the Tekezé River and north of Lake Tana; a number of Agaw live south of Lake Tana, around Dangila in the Agew Awi Zone of the Amhara Region; and another group live around Soqota in the former province of Wollo, now part of the Amhara Region, along its border with the Tigray Region.\n\nThe Cushitic speaking Agaw people ruled during the Zagwe dynasty of Ethiopia from about 900 to 1270. The name of the dynasty itself comes from the Ge'ez phrase \"Ze-Agaw\" (meaning \"of the Agaw\"), and refers to the Agaw people.\n\nThe Agaw speak Agaw languages. They are a part of the Cushitic branch of the Afro-Asiatic family. Many also speak other languages such as Amharic, Tigrinya and/or Tigre.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2060008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2060008", "title": "Konstantine", "text": "Konstantine\n\nKonstantine is a masculine given name. Notable people with the name include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2060009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2060009", "title": "Lord proprietor", "text": "Lord proprietor\n\nA lord proprietor is a person granted a royal charter for the establishment and government of an English colony in the 17th century. The plural of the term is \"lords proprietors\" or \"lords proprietary\".\n\nIn the beginning of the European colonial era, trade companies such as the East India Company were the most common method used to settle new land. This changed following Maryland's Royal Grant in 1632, when King Charles I granted George Calvert, 1st Baron Baltimore proprietary rights to an area east of the Potomac River in exchange for a share of the income derived there. Going forward, proprietary colonies became the most common way to settle areas with British subjects. The land was licensed or granted to a proprietor who held expanse power. These powers were commonly written into the land charters by using the \"Bishop Durham clause\" which recreated the powers and responsibilities once given to the County Palatine of Durham in England. Through this clause, the lord proprietor was given the power to create courts and laws, establish governing bodies and churches, and appoint all governing officials.\n\nEach proprietary colony had a unique system of governance reflecting the geographic challenges of the area as well as the personality of the lord proprietor. The colonies of Maryland and New York, based on English law and administration practices, were run effectively. However, other colonies such as Carolina were mismanaged. The colonies of West and East Jersey as well as Pennsylvania were distinct in their diversion from the traditional monarchial system that ruled most colonies of the time. This was due to the large number of Quakers in these areas who shared many views with the lords proprietary.\n\nEffective governance of proprietary colonies relied on the appointment of a governor. The lord proprietor made the governor the head of the province's military, judicial, and administrative functions. This was typically conducted using a commission established by the lord proprietor. The lord proprietor typically instructed the governor what to do. Only through these instructions could legislation be made.\n\nIn 1629, King Charles I granted Sir Robert Heath (the attorney general) the southern half of the English land in the New World between 36 degrees and 31 degrees north latitude from the Atlantic Ocean to the Pacific Ocean. The land was named \"Province of Carolina\" or land of Charles. Sir Robert’s attempts at settlement failed and in 1645, during the English Civil War, he was stripped of all of his possessions as a Royalist supporter of the King. In 1663, eight members of the English nobility received a charter from King Charles II to establish the colony of Carolina. The eight Lords Proprietors were:\n\nThe Lords Proprietors were anxious to secure Carolina against Spanish attacks from San Augustine in Florida, and to do so, they needed to attract more colonists. The Lords Proprietors offered English settlers inducements consisting of religious toleration, political representation in an assembly that had power over public taxes, exemption from quitrents and large grants of land. The Lords allowed settlers of any religion, except atheists. The Lords also had a generous headright system whereby they granted one hundred and fifty acres of land to each member of a family. An indentured male servant who served his term received his freedom dues from his master and a grant of one hundred acres from the Lords Proprietors. In order to attract planters with capital to invest, the Lords Proprietors also gave the owner and master the one hundred and fifty acre headright for every slave imported to the Colony. These incentives drew 6,600 colonists to the colony by 1700 compared with only 1,500 in the Spanish colony of Florida. Carolina attracted English settlers, French Protestants (Huguenots) and other colonists from Barbados and the West Indies.\n\nThe first government in Carolina began in Albemarle County in 1664 when William Sayle was appointed as the governor. Proprietary authority was weaker near the Virginia border. The Lords Proprietors established a North Carolina with its own assembly and deputy governor. In 1712, the division of Carolina into North and South was completed with the elevation of the deputy governor to governor of North Carolina.\n\nThe Lords Proprietors failed to protect the settlers when enemies attacked or threatened the Colony. For example, during Queen Anne's War (1702–1713), the colonists drove French and Spanish forces away from Charlestown. Again, between 1715 and 1718, the colonists defended themselves against attacks by the Yamasee Indians and pirates. During these times of conflict, the colonists received little or no help from the proprietors. The elite group of settlers in Carolina, former West Indians known as the Goose Creek Men, grew increasingly frustrated with the Lords Proprietors because they meddled in politics but failed to defend the colony against Spanish and Native American attacks.\n\nIn 1719, the South Carolina assembly sent a petition to England requesting that the proprietors be replaced with Crown administration. King George I appointed royal governors for North and South Carolina, converting the colony’s status to that of a royal colony (England ruled the colony but allowed the people self-government). In 1729, the Crown bought out seven of the eight of the Lords Proprietors for £22,500, approximately the amount they had spent on the colony. The eighth proprietor, John Carteret, Lord Granville, refused to sell and retained title to the lands and quitrents in the northern third of North Carolina.\n\nAt the time the Crown purchased the proprietors' interests in 1729 the successors of the eight proprietors proved to be:\nSome of these 1729 interests had been acquired not by inheritance but by purchase. The Carteret interest continued until Independence when the Crown paid compensation for the Carteret loss.\n\nTwo documents remain with the Lords Proprietors' original seal kept intact.\n\nIn the 1690s, the Lords Proprietors were keen to implement their plan for a colonial aristocracy (an attempt to stabilize Carolina politics). One document is a grant or patent issued by the Lords Proprietors of South Carolina in 1699. It was issued to an Englishman named John Wyche, a relative of the chief Proprietor, giving him the status of Landgrave with the right to claim of land in a certain region. John Wyche was appointed as the Secretary to the Province and served in this role in the colony for a short period of six months before he received another appointment in Hamburg. Some of the documents relate to Wyche’s activity in the colony. His successor to the Secretary position was John Wilmot. After a revolt against the Lords Proprietors in 1719, the colony came under royal control. This change in power was formalized by an Act of the English parliament in 1729 called \"An Agreement with Seven of the Lords Proprietors of Carolina, for the Surrender of their Title and Interest in that Province\".\n\nThe documents include information about Wyche’s land-claims and the petition of the Cyril family for an endorsement of their rights under the 1699 grant (a claim that the Privy Council in London disallowed). The grant was originally written in Latin and is embossed on vellum with the Great Seal of the Proprietors attached. This seal and document is one of two such 17th century documents to survive with the seal intact.\n\n1. Sir Robert Heath’s Patent 5 Charles I, 30 October 1629\n\nIn this patent King Charles I of England gave Sir Robert Hearth, the attorney general, property in the New World.\n\n2. A Declaration and Proposals of the Lord Proprietor of Carolina, 25 August – 4 September 1663\n\nThis charter issued by King Charles II of England proposed the formation of the Lords Proprietors and gave the lands of Carolina to the eight proprietors: the Earl of Clarendon, Duke of Albemarle, Lord Craven, Lord Berkeley, Lord Ashley, Sir George Carteret, William Berkeley and Sir John Colleton. This declaration gave the proprietors the power to protect their colony, the right to settle the colony, freedom of religion and one hundred acres of land for each man.\n\n3. Charter of Carolina- 24 March 1663\n\nThis charter outlined how the eight proprietors should rule Carolina. It gave the land to the proprietors, allowed for patronage, gave the proprietors absolute power in the colony, gave the colony’s government the right to make laws, authorized the authority to make ordinances, gave instructions to defend the colony against enemies, outlined trade regulations, gave the proprietors building rights in the colony, allowed for an army and allowed the practice of religion conformed to the Church of England.\n\n4. The Concession and Agreement of the Lords Proprietors of the Province of New Caesarea, or New Jersey, to and With All and Every the Adventures and All Such as Shall Settle or Plant There- 1664 \n\nThis document outlines the distribution of power in New Jersey by the Lords Proprietors. The document includes the role Governor of the province, the right for the Governor to choose six counsellors, the role of the Chief of Secretary, the role of the Surveyor General and the colonists’ duty as subjects of the King of England.\n\n5. A Declaration of the True Intent and Meaning of us the Lords Proprietors, and Explanation of There Concessions Made to the Adventures and Planters of New Caesarea or New Jersey- 1672 \n\nThis declaration outlines the rules for the General Assembly and the Governor.\n\n6. His Royal Highness’s Grant to the Lords Proprietors, Sir George Carteret, 29 July 1674\n\nThis document from King Charles II of England, reiterates Sir George Carteret’s claim to his land in America as laid out by the original patents.\n\nDefinition\n\nHeadright system- Each settler received a single headright (grant of land) for himself or herself.\n\nQuitrents- a fixed rent payable to a feudal superior in commutation of services\n\nIn 1664, the English gained control of New Jersey from the Dutch. King Charles II granted the country to his brother, the Duke of York, who in turn sold the colony to two of his friends, Lord Berkeley and Sir George Carteret (who were both already Lords Proprietors of Carolina). The area was named \"New Jersey\" after Carteret’s home island of Jersey in the English Channel. The grant, unique among other proprietary grants in the Americas, did not explicitly give the lord proprietors the power of government in the colony.\n\nNonetheless, Berkeley and Carteret, established a constitution and gave freemen the right to elect an Assembly. A tax could not be levied without the Assembly’s approval. The Governor was appointed by the Lords Proprietors and was allowed to select his own Council, which constituted the upper branch of the Legislature. The new colony attracted many settlers because Berkeley and Sir George Carteret sold the land to the colonists at low prices and allowed them political and religious freedoms.\n\nThe Dutch re-conquered the area in 1673 but then surrendered to the English in 1674. The new documents governing the lands still did not mention the lord proprietor's governing rights which led to continued confusion with colonial officials in New York. Two of New Jersey's governors during the area's time as a proprietary colony were arrested and imprisoned in New York for governing without the authority to do so.\n\nBerkeley sold his half of New Jersey to Edward Byllynge and John Fenwick. In 1676, Carteret and Fenwick negotiated a division of the province into two sections: East Jersey which was held by Carteret and West Jersey which was held by Fenwick. Sir George Carteret died in 1680. His property was left to Trustees who put East Jersey up for sale in a public auction. In 1682, the property was sold to William Penn and eleven associates who each sold half of their share to twelve others, forming an association of twenty-four proprietors. This body became known as the Board of Proprietors of East Jersey. This board exercised government control, which eventually led to many conflicts within the colony. In 1702, East and West Jersey surrendered the right to government to the English Crown under Queen Anne following the Glorious Revolution.\n\nIn the Province of New Jersey, there were two proprietary lordships:\n\nLords Proprietary of East Jersey:\n\n\nLords Proprietary of West Jersey:\n\n\nThe British monarch, in his or her capacity as Sovereign Lord of Mann, is considered to be the Lord Proprietor of the Isle of Man. This usage is generally left ignored.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2060013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2060013", "title": "Nicole Malachowski", "text": "Nicole Malachowski\n\nNicole Margaret Ellingwood Malachowski (born September 26, 1974) is a retired United States Air Force officer and the first female pilot selected to fly as part of the USAF Air Demonstration Squadron, better known as the Thunderbirds. She later became a speaker and advocate on behalf of patients suffering from tick borne illnesses.\n\nMalachowski was a Civil Air Patrol cadet before she entered the U.S. Air Force Academy in 1992. She was commissioned as a second lieutenant upon graduation in 1996. Her first public performance with the Thunderbirds was in March 2006, and her aviator call sign was \"FiFi\". She spent the 2006 and 2007 air show seasons flying the Number 3 (Right Wing) aircraft in the diamond formation. Between September 1, 2008 and August 31, 2009, Malachowski was on special assignment, participating in the White House Fellows Program for the Class of 2008–2009, assigned to the General Services Administration. In 2011, she took command of the 333d Fighter Squadron at Seymour Johnson Air Force Base, North Carolina. In September 2015, she returned to the White House to become the executive director of its Joining Forces initiative for supporting veterans, service members, and military families. She was medically retired from the Air Force in 2017 after attaining the rank of colonel. In 2019, she was inducted into the National Women's Hall of Fame.\n\nNicole Malachowski was born Nicole Ellingwood in Santa Maria, California, to Cathy and Robert Ellingwood. In high school, she was a cadet member of the Nevada Wing of the Civil Air Patrol and participated in AFJROTC, where she was rated cadet colonel, the highest rank a cadet could achieve. She started working on her pilot's license before graduating from high school. She graduated from Western High School in Las Vegas in 1992.\n\nShe earned a Bachelor of Science degree in Management, with a minor in French, from the United States Air Force Academy, graduating 124th of 922 in the Class of 1996. While at the academy she was both a pilot and cadet instructor pilot in the academy's TG-4 glider program. She also earned a Master of Arts degree from American Military University in National Security Policy, and a second in National Security and Strategic Studies from the United States Naval War College, where she graduated with highest distinction. While at the U.S. Naval War College, Malachowski was the first Air Force officer to earn the Admiral Stephen B. Luce Award as the class honor graduate.\n\nMalachowski is married to Lieutenant Colonel Paul G. Malachowski (USAF, retired), a former F-15E Weapons System Operator. The couple met while both were serving as aircrew in the 48th Fighter Wing at RAF Lakenheath in the United Kingdom. In April 2010 she was admitted to the Mother and Infant Care Center (MICC) of the National Naval Medical Center in Bethesda, Maryland, in expectation of the birth of twins. After a confinement of nine weeks, she gave birth to daughter Norah and son Garrick on June 6, 2010. After medically retiring in 2017, Malachowski became a public speaker and patient advocate for people suffering from tick borne illnesses.\n\nMalachowski attended undergraduate pilot training at Columbus AFB, Mississippi. She finished fourth in her class and selected the only F-15E Strike Eagle slot allotted to her class. After barely meeting the height and weight requirements for fighter pilots, she trained at Seymour Johnson AFB, North Carolina, with the 4th Fighter Wing.\n\nShe served two operational tours at RAF Lakenheath, England, with the 48th Fighter Wing; assignment to the 4th Fighter Wing at Seymour Johnson AFB; and as an Air Liaison Officer supporting the 2nd Infantry Division at Camp Red Cloud, South Korea. During her second tour at RAF Lakenheath, Malachowski deployed for four months in early 2005 in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom, flying 26 combat missions. She applied and was accepted as a Thunderbirds pilot in June 2005. She completed transition training to the F-16 Fighting Falcon with the 56th Fighter Wing at Luke Air Force Base, Arizona and flew with the Thunderbird Team based at Nellis AFB, Nevada from November 2005 until November 2007.\n\nAfter successfully completing her tour with the USAF Thunderbirds in November 2007, including approximately 140 performances, Malachowski served on staff of the Commander, United States Air Force Warfare Center, at Nellis Air Force Base, Nevada, to June 2008.\nMalachowski was then selected to participate as a White House Fellow in Washington, D.C., from September 1, 2008 to August 31, 2009, serving in the General Services Administration with the Presidential Transition Support Team and as deputy chief of staff. Malachowski has been an advocate of recognition of the Women Airforce Service Pilots (WASP), America's first women military aviators who served during World War II. On July 1, 2009, she participated in a White House ceremony at which legislation (S.614) awarding a Congressional Gold Medal to the WASP was signed into law by President Barack Obama. Although she had to use a wheelchair due to a broken left leg, Lt Col Malachowski delivered remarks during the ceremony held March 10, 2010, in the United States Capitol awarding Deanie Bishop Parrish the medal on behalf of all 1,102 WASP pilots.\n\nMalachowski served as deputy commander of the 4th Operations Support Squadron, 4th Operations Group, until November 18, 2011, when she took command of the 333d Fighter Squadron at Seymour Johnson Air Force Base, North Carolina.\n\nShe completed her assignment with the 333d in May, 2013 and reported to the Naval War College in Newport, RI as a student.\n\nAfter leaving the War College, Malachowski served as the Deputy Director of United States Air Force Readiness and Training at the Department of Defense. In May 2015, she was announced as the new Executive Director of Joining Forces, First Lady Michelle Obama and Second Lady Jill Biden's initiative to support veterans, service members, and military families.\n\nCol. Malachowski medically retired in 2017 after serving 21 years because she contracted a tick-borne illness.\n\n\nNicole Malachowski's ribbons as of August 1, 2009:\n\n"}
{"id": "2060014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2060014", "title": "Premier House", "text": "Premier House\n\nPremier House () is the official residence of the Prime Minister of New Zealand, located at 260 Tinakori Road, Thorndon, Wellington, New Zealand.\n\nA private house purchased for the Prime Minister's official residence when government shifted its base to Wellington in 1865, it was first greatly expanded and then, as its wooden structure deteriorated, shunned by the more modest political leaders on learning the cost of repairs.\n\nIt was leased to private individuals for six years in the late 1890s then returned to use as an official residence for the Prime Minister until the Great Depression when a new government in 1935 wished to avoid \"show\". For more than half a century generations of children came to know the building as their dental clinic until it was renovated and recommissioned as Premier House in 1990.\n\nThe original house was built in the early days of the New Zealand colony in 1843 for Wellington's first Mayor, George Hunter. This house, or at least a portion of it, is still located at the southern end of the current building. It has been greatly expanded over the years. Later the residence of Nathaniel Levin, the house was bought from Richard Collins in early March 1865 to become the official residence of the nation's Premier. Wellington's \"The Evening Post\" thought the £2900 price \"must be considered cheap\". Auckland's \"Daily Southern Cross\" described it as \"one of the handsomest villas in the country\", but Auckland's local morning paper, \"The New Zealand Herald\", noted the acquisition with the comment \"a piece of illegal extravagance\". A few weeks later the \"Daily Southern Cross\" described the original plan to build a new house as a \"monstrous waste of public money\".\n\nThe house changed little until Julius Vogel and his wife, Mary, arrived in 1873. Within a year they had turned it into an eight-bedroom mansion complete with conservatory and ballroom. The grounds featured what is thought to have been the country's first tennis court. The Vogels were noted for their lavish entertaining, resulting in the house acquiring the nickname of \"The Casino\".\n\n\n\nIn 1935 Prime Minister Michael Joseph Savage, faced with rebuilding the country's economy in the midst of the Great Depression, lived in Seddon's former residence at 47 Molesworth Street, later purchasing a house high in Northland. Premier House was turned into a school for dental nurses and a children's dental clinic, known to all as \"the murder house\". It had 40 chairs, later 50. Before fluoridation the molars of the nation's children were soon cored with amalgam. At the time, Mr Langstone, the Minister of Lands, was living there and a new house was built for him in the grounds on the site of the stable. During the war the garden grew vegetables for the local Armed Forces Service Clubs.\n\nAfter many years of institutional use, by the 1980s the building had fallen into disrepair. It was rescued from this decline by Michael Bassett, Minister of Internal Affairs, who initiated moves for the restoration of the building to its early grandeur.\n\nThe restoration was undertaken by Auckland's Grant Group Architects and L.T. McGuinness Construction between December 1989 and 1991. The internal walls were retained and all rooms and most passages were left in their original position. Fire sprinklers, central heating and air conditioning systems were installed along with a new hydraulic lift. The interior decoration carefully reproduces many 19th-century period features, while the overall design is modern. The decor includes a considerable collection of New Zealand art, both old and new.\nThe conservation of Premier House, as it was renamed, was a 1990 Sesquicentennial project. That year Geoffrey Palmer and his wife, Margaret, became its first official residents. In 2018 the house was upgraded, with repairs and maintenance undertaken, at a cost of NZ$3 million.\n\n\nPrime Minister Bill English (2016–2017) did not live at Premier House during his term because New Zealand law prohibits Wellington-based MPs from claiming taxpayer-funded accommodation in the capital. His successor, Jacinda Ardern, who is based in Auckland, moved into the official residence.\n\nThe property has a land area of 1.5 hectares (14,569 square metres) and a rateable value (in 2020) of NZ$23,300,000.\n\nFrom 1939 Michael Joseph Savage (until 1939 at 47 Molesworth Street) lived in a house “Hill Haven” at 64-66 Harbour View Road, Northland, Wellington, which was subsequently used by his successor Peter Fraser until 1949. It was purchased for Michael Joseph Savage \"because it is now not necessary (to be within easy walking distance of Parliament) and a Prime Minister is no longer bound to the lowly areas of the Thorndon flats\".\n\nFrom 1950 Sidney Holland lived at No 41 Pipitea Street, Thorndon. The house was subsequently used by Walter Nash, Keith Holyoake and Geoffrey Palmer, and as a ministerial residence by Jim Sutton and Nick Smith. The house was also used for the Pacific Island Affairs Ministry.\n\nFrom 1976 to 1990 Vogel House in Lower Hutt was the official residence of the prime minister. It was used by Robert Muldoon and others.\n\n"}
{"id": "2060018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2060018", "title": "Flag of Saint David", "text": "Flag of Saint David\n\nThe flag of Saint David () is normally a yellow cross on a black field, but it has also appeared as a black cross on a yellow field or with an engrailed cross. It represents the 6th-century Saint David (; – ), a Welsh bishop of Menevia and the patron saint of Wales.\n\nThe Flag of Saint David has been used as a flag representing Wales (as an alternative to the Red Dragon flag), in the same sense that the crosses of Saint George, Saint Andrew and Saint Patrick are used to represent England, Scotland and Ireland (of which they are respectively patron saints). It is similar to the arms of the Diocese of St David's.\n\nThe flag can be seen throughout Wales, but not as frequently as the Red Dragon. On Saint David's Day it often plays a central role in the celebrations.\n\nThe flag of Saint David was mostly unknown in Wales until 1994. There was a large one along the roof in St David's Cathedral with the cinquefoils thereon but hardly any others in use. The Welsh Tartan Company (WTC) were looking around for a 'brand' to complete the \"Brithwe Dewi Sant\" (St David's Tartan). J Wake, then of the WTC, set out to see if the flag could be used commercially or indeed patriotically across Wales. The feeling at the time was that the Union flag did not contain any Welshness, the St George's Cross representing Wales as a principality of England. The Dean of St David's said that the cinquefoil and the cross were their property and advised help from a London royal official office.\n\nThe WTC was then told the Prince of Wales probably owned the rights to the flag and may not give permission. There was neither outright animosity to the flag being produced and used, nor any enthusiasm. It was decided, after a lawyer was consulted, that the flag could be used as long as there were no cinquefoils on it. A thousand flags were produced without the cinquefoils; they were distributed around Wales and a PR campaign took place to increase knowledge of the St David's flag.\n\nThe flags were hung prominently in the Welsh shop in the centre of Cardiff and at other locations. Within 10 years, the St David's Flag was known and flown across Wales in patriotic use. It was never a flag to usurp the Red Dragon but to complement it, and perhaps to get Wales's own Patron Saint's emblem to proudly fly alongside the emblems of the other nations, St George, St Andrew and St Patrick.\n\nThe history of the flag is somewhat obscure, but it seems to have emerged at the beginning of the 20th century. One theory is that it was developed to fly atop Anglican churches in Wales (possibly with colours reversed as a black cross on a yellow field) in the same way that the St George's Cross was flown outside churches in England, but since 1954 churches are more likely to fly a flag of the Church in Wales based on its armorial badge granted that year.\n\nIn any case, the colours of the flag, black and gold, have certainly long been associated with the Welsh saint, even if not always in the form of a symmetrical cross. St David's University College, Lampeter (now the Lampeter campus of the University of Wales Trinity Saint David), founded in 1822, adopted these colours as the 'college colours' in 1888, and the flag of St David continues to be associated with the college, and is often flown today in a form defaced to include the cinquefoils of the crest of St David's College.\n\nA stylized version of the flag was also used as the shoulder badge of the 38th (Welsh) Infantry Division during World War II.\n\nBetween 2003 and 2008, Cardiff City F.C. incorporated the flag into their logo. Crusaders RLFC, who started playing rugby league in Bridgend in 2006, also incorporated the flag on their logo.\n\nIn 2007 George Hargreaves, leader of the Welsh Christian Party, campaigned to replace the Flag of Wales with the St David's Cross, claiming that the red dragon on the Welsh flag was \"nothing less than the sign of Satan\".\n\nThe Chilean football club Coquimbo Unido uses the colors yellow and black in honor of San David, since they were the colors of the crew of H.M.S. Flora, a boat belonging to the Royal British Navy, which delivered their T-shirts in honor of those who defeated them on the field on April 24, 1903\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2060020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2060020", "title": "Tally's War", "text": "Tally's War\n\nTalley's War also called the Skunk River War was an incident in 1863 in Iowa, in which pro-war individuals opened fire on a peace demonstration; one person was killed.\n\nCyphert (or Syphert) Talley was a pro-peace Baptist minister whose family moved into the Keokuk county, Iowa area from Tennessee in 1840. During the Civil War, Talley became known in Keokuk County for pro-peace speeches, which sometimes drew an armed audience. On Saturday, August 1, 1863, Talley spoke at a Democratic rally near the English river to an audience of hundreds. After the rally, Talley and others of his crowd rode in wagons to the nearby town of South English, Iowa, where a meeting of Republicans had taken place. Talley was warned not to enter the town, but did anyway, to accusations of his cowardice. According to an 1880 recounting of the event, the Democrats in wagons displayed their weapons at these cries to the equally well-armed people in the town. It was said that a town's person started the firing. Hundreds of shots were fired, but only Talley died.\n\nTalley's friends sent out the word of his death widely, and the next day people began to arrive in answer to the news, demanding vengeance. A citizen committee reassured the first hundred who assembled that the guilty party would be sought and brought to justice, but the crowd continued to gather, until hundreds of men had formed by the Skunk River into what would later be known as the Skunk River Army. Several citizens of the town made an excursion to Davenport, Iowa, to appeal to Governor Kirkwood, who travelled with several hundred troops and cannons to the area. While the action brought legends of the terrified retreat of the Skunk River Army, the fact is that the army had all but disbanded before the governor arrived.\n\nAll told, eleven companies were engaged in quelling uprisings in August 1863 in Keokuk County.\n\nNo one was indicted for the crime of shooting Talley, although the placement of the wound suggested it was intentionally inflicted. Citizens of the area kept the identity of the shooter to themselves.\n\n"}
{"id": "2060021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2060021", "title": "WRFN-LP", "text": "WRFN-LP\n\nWRFN-LP is a community LPFM non-commercial radio station in Nashville, Tennessee. It operates at a frequency of 107.1 MHz and is branded as Radio Free Nashville. The station features a mix of music, talk and public affairs programming, almost all with a decidedly liberal or leftist political perspective largely not found on other area media outlets (local or national). WRFN is the only radio station in Tennessee that broadcasts programming from the Pacifica radio network.\n\nThe station went on the air in April 2005, with studios and transmitter located at the nearby community of Pasquo, Tennessee, 15 miles (24km) west of downtown Nashville.\n\nWRFN-LP was the seventh community radio \"barnraising\" of the Prometheus Radio Project.\n\nIn mid-2007, WRFN began simulcasting on Nashville cable television channel 10's second audio program (SAP).\n\nOn October 25, 2009, WRFN changed its frequency to 107.1 MHz from its previously assigned frequency of 98.9 MHz, which had also been occupied by WANT in nearby Lebanon, Tennessee.\n\nA translator station, W279CH on 103.7 in Hermitage, Tennessee, signed-on in December 2014 to serve Nashville proper, expanding WRFN's over-the-air reach in the Nashville metro area.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2060022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2060022", "title": "Tui Cakau", "text": "Tui Cakau\n\nThe Tui Cakau is the Paramount Chief of Cakaudrove Province in Fiji. In Modern Fiji this chiefly title is regarded as the most senior in the Tovata Confederacy, and the third most senior in the country.\n\nThe current \"Tui Cakau\" is Ratu Naiqama Lalabalavu; he was installed on 8 May 2001 in succession to his father, Ratu Glanville Lalabalavu, who died in 1999. In April 2002, the courts dismissed a challenge from a rival claimant, Ratu Epeli Ganilau.\n\nPerhaps the best-known \"Tui Cakau\" in modern times was Ratu Sir Penaia Ganilau, who held the title from 1988 to 1993. He was Fiji's last Governor-General and first President. The present \"Tui Cakau,\" Ratu Naiqama Lalabalavu, led a political party, the Conservative Alliance (CAMV) and was a Minister in the government of Prime Minister Laisenia Qarase from 2000 to 2005, when he was convicted of involvement in the coup d'état that deposed the elected government in 2000. On 3 April he became the first-ever Cabinet Minister to be imprisoned while in office, and resigned from the Cabinet four days later. He was released on 14 April, to serve the remainder of his eight-month sentence extramurally. He is the highest-ranked chief in modern times to have been imprisoned.\n\nFollowing his release, Lalabalavu was reinstated as a Cabinet Minister. The CAMV merged with Prime Minister Qarase's Soqosoqo Duavata ni Lewenivanua (SDL) ahead of the 2006 elections, and Lalabalavu remained in both Parliament and the Cabinet until a military coup deposed the government on 5 December 2006. He returned to Parliament at the 2014 elections as a candidate of the Social Democratic Liberal Party (SDLP), the successor to the SDL.\n\nThe \"Tui Cakau\" ruled what was effectively an independent state until 1865, when Cakaudrove joined the Confederacy of Independent Kingdoms of Viti under the chairmanship of Seru Epenisa Cakobau, the Vunivalu of Bau. This lasted only until 1867, when the Confederacy was split into two units, the Kingdom of Bau (ruled by Cakobau) and the Confederation of Lau (consisting of the present-day provinces of Cakaudrove, Bua, and Lau). The then \"Tui Cakau\", Ratu Goleanavanua, became the first \"Captain Supreme\" of the Confederation of Lau; he was succeeded two years later by Enele Ma'afu, who reigned until the Confederation of Lau joined the united Kingdom of Viti in 1871.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2060027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2060027", "title": "Seedars", "text": "Seedars\n\nAccording to Akilattirattu Ammanai, the scripture of the Ayyavazhi religion, Ayya Vaikundar, the Incarnation of Lord Narayana in Kali Yukam, has five Seedar (disciples). They were in the previous Dwapara Yukam as Pandavas who were transmigrated as disciples of Vaikundar in this Yuga.\n\nThe native place of Dharma Seedar is Mayiladi, a town in Kanyakumari district of Tamil Nadu. He was Dharmar, the elder of the Pandavas in the previous Dwapara Yukam. In history he was known as Sivanandi.\n\nThe native place of Bhiman Citar is Karumbattoor, a village in the district of Kanyakumari. He was Bhima, the most courageous of the Pandavas in the previous Dwapara Yukam. In history he was known as Pantaram (his name).\n\nThe native place of Arjunan Seedar is Pillayar Kudiyiruppu, a village in the district of Kanyakumari. He was Arjuna, one among Pandavas in the previous Dwapara Yukam. In history he was known as Arjunan.\n\nThe native place of Nakulan Seedar is Colachel, a town in the district of Kanyakumari. Among the Pandavas in the previous Dwapara Yukam he was Nakula. In history he was known as Subaiah.\n\nHari Gopalan Citar, also known as Sakatevan Citar, is considered to be the most important among the Seedars because he was the man to write Akilattirattu Ammanai (Akilam), the holy scripture of Ayyavazhi. In the Adiyeduttharulal part in Akilam One of Akilattirattu he claims that it was not he, but God who wrote the contents of Akilam.\n\nAkilam says that he was Sakadeva, one among the Panchapandavas and he was made to be born in Kali Yukam in a village south to Swamithoppe. He was known as Sakadevan in human history. There are also some reports claiming that Hari Gopalan Citar was illiterate and he did not know even the alphabets of Tamil before he wrote Akilam.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2060032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2060032", "title": "Dennis Mahony", "text": "Dennis Mahony\n\nDennis Aloysius Mahony (January 20, 1821 in Rosscarbery, County Cork, Ireland – November 6, 1879) was one of the founders of the Dubuque \"Herald\" (now the \"Telegraph Herald\"), a newspaper in Dubuque, Iowa, during the American Civil War.\n\nMahony was born in Rosscarbery, County Cork, Ireland. At the age of 9, he emigrated with his family to Philadelphia, Pennsylvania in 1831. He studied theology and law before moving to Iowa in 1843, but initially held several other jobs (teaching, postmaster, justice of the peace) before being admitted to the bar in 1847.\n\nHe was elected to the Iowa House of Representatives from Jackson County in 1848 and in 1858. In 1849 he became editor of \"The Miner's Express\"; and in 1852 he co-founded the \"Dubuque Herald\", the first daily paper in Iowa. Mahony was also active in regional politics.\n\nHe was a highly partisan Northern Democrat of Copperhead sympathies and wrote articles that negatively criticized Abraham Lincoln and the conduct of the Civil \nWar. He was arrested on August 14, 1862 by U.S. Marshal H.M. Hoxie for publishing an editorial article that was allegedly disloyal to the government. He was transported from Dubuque to Washington D.C, and held at the Old Capitol Prison. He was released from prison on November 10, but only after signing a document stating that he would \"form an allegiance to the United States, and would not bring any charges against those who had arrested and confined him.\"\n\nDuring his captivity, he was the Democratic nominee for Congress; he was defeated by William B. Allison. He would later serve two terms as sheriff of Dubuque County.\n\nMahony wrote a book about his experience entitled \"Prisoner of State\" which was published in 1863. He, Stilson Hutchins, and John Hodnett established the \"St. Louis Star\" newspaper in 1866, but Mahony sold his share and returned to Dubuque, where he edited the \"Dubuque Telegraph\" until his death.\n\nHe is buried at St. Patrick's Cemetery in Garryowen, Iowa in the northwest corner of Jackson County, a few miles south of Bernard, Iowa.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2060033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2060033", "title": "Arizona Mills", "text": "Arizona Mills\n\nArizona Mills is an indoor outlet shopping mall in Tempe, Arizona. It was co-owned by the Mills Corporation (which owned 25%) and Taubman Centers. However, Taubman has since sold the remaining 75% stake to Simon, who purchased it in 2007 from the Mills Corporation. It opened on November 20, 1997, with 6,000 parking spaces and approximately 200 retailers. It is currently anchored by Sears Outlet Appliance, Ross Dress for Less, Marshalls, Conn's, and Burlington Coat Factory. The mall is located on the Southeast corner of US 60 and I-10.\n\nDespite the presence of 'Mills' in its name, it is not geographically close to or affiliated with Mill Avenue, a shopping and entertainment district near Hayden Butte to the north. The name comes from that of the property developer, formerly known as the Mills Corporation. \n\nLike other Mills Centers, Arizona Mills has abstract graphics from the entrances and inside the whole mall. Likewise for this mall, numerous artworks are displayed throughout Arizona Mills from the people of Arizona. \n\nIn June 2008, the mall's website was changed from its former Mills Corporation format to its Simon Malls format along with 16 other sister Simon-Mills malls. It was the last Simon-Mills mall to make the switch. It is one of three malls Simon currently owns in Arizona, with Phoenix Premium Outlets in Chandler & Tucson Premium outlets being the others. It is the third mall Simon has ever owned in Arizona, previously having owned Southgate Mall in Yuma, Arizona, and Metrocenter Mall in Phoenix, Arizona which is now owned by Carlyle Development Group.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2060039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2060039", "title": "Southern Renaissance", "text": "Southern Renaissance\n\nThe Southern Renaissance (also known as Southern Renascence) was the reinvigoration of American Southern literature in the 1920s and 1930s with the appearance of writers such as William Faulkner, Thomas Wolfe, Caroline Gordon, Margaret Mitchell, Katherine Anne Porter, Erskine Caldwell, Allen Tate, Tennessee Williams, Robert Penn Warren, and Zora Neale Hurston, among others.\n\nPrior to this renaissance, Southern writers tended to focus on historical romances about the \"Lost Cause\" of the Confederate States of America. This writing glorified the heroism of the Confederate army and civilian population during the Civil War and the supposedly idyllic culture that existed in the South before the war (known as the Antebellum South). \n\nThe belief in the heroism and morality of the South's \"Lost Cause\" was a driving force in Southern literature between the Civil War and World War I. The Southern Renaissance \nchanged this by addressing three major themes in their works. The first was the burden of history in a place where many people still remembered slavery, Reconstruction, and a devastating military defeat. The second theme was to focus on the South's conservative culture, specifically on how an individual could exist without losing a sense of identity in a region where family, religion, and community were more highly valued than one's personal and social life. The final theme that the renaissance writers approached was the South's troubled history in regards to racial issues. Because of these writers' distance from the Civil War and slavery, they were able to bring more objectivity to writings about the South. They also brought new modernistic techniques such as stream of consciousness and complex narrative techniques to their works (as Faulkner did in his novel \"As I Lay Dying\").\n\nAmong the writers of the Southern Renaissance, William Faulkner is arguably the most influential and famous. He won the Nobel Prize in Literature in 1949.\n\nThe Southern Renaissance in the 1920s had been preceded by a long period after the Civil War \nduring which Southern literature was dominated by writers who supported the Lost Cause. \nYet the critical spirit that characterized the Southern Renaissance did have roots in the era that preceded it. \n\nFrom the 1880s onwards, a few white Southern authors, such as George Washington Cable and Mark Twain (considered a Southern writer because he grew up in the slave state of Missouri and set many of his writings in the South) challenged readers by pointing out the exploitation of blacks and ridiculing other Southern conventions of the time. \n\nIn the 1890s, the writings of journalist Walter Hines Page and academics William Peterfield Trent and John Spencer Bassett severely criticized the cultural and intellectual mediocrity of the men who held power in the South. In 1903, Basset, an academic at Trinity College (later Duke University) angered many influential white Southerners when he called African-American leader Booker T. Washington \"the greatest man, save General Lee, born in the South in a hundred years.\" \n\nThe most comprehensive and outspoken criticisms directed against the tenets of the \"Lost Cause\" before the First World War were put forth by African American writers who grew up in the South, most famously by Charles W. Chesnutt in his novels \"The House Behind the Cedars\" (1900) and \"The Marrow of Tradition\" (1901). However, before the 1970s, African-American authors from the South were not considered part of Southern literature by the white and mostly male authors and critics who considered themselves the main creators and guardians of the Southern literary tradition. \n\nThe Southern Renaissance was the first mainstream movement within Southern literature to address the criticisms of Southern cultural and intellectual life that had emerged both from within the Southern literary tradition and from outsiders, most notably the satirist H.L. Mencken. In the decade before the Southern Renaissance, Mencken led the attack on the genteel tradition in American literature, ridiculing the provincialism of American intellectual life. In his 1917 essay \"The Sahara of the Bozart\" (a pun on a Southern pronunciation of 'beaux-arts') he singled out the South as the most provincial and intellectually barren region of the US, claiming that since the Civil War, intellectual and cultural life there had gone into terminal decline. This created a storm of protest from within conservative circles in the South. However, many emerging Southern writers who were already highly critical of contemporary life in the South were emboldened by Mencken's essay. On the other hand, Mencken's subsequent bitter attacks on aspects of Southern culture that they valued amazed and horrified them. In response to the attacks of Mencken and his imitators, Southern writers were provoked to a reassertion of Southern uniqueness and a deeper exploration of the theme of Southern identity.\n\nThe start of the Southern Renaissance is often traced back to the activities of \"The Fugitives\", a group of poets and critics who were based at Vanderbilt University in Nashville, Tennessee, just after the First World War. The group included John Crowe Ransom, Donald Davidson, Allen Tate, Robert Penn Warren, and others. Together they created the magazine \"The Fugitive\" (1922–1925), so named because the editors announced that they fled \"from nothing faster than from the high-caste Brahmins of the Old South.\"\n\nThe emergence of the Southern Renaissance as a literary and cultural movement has also been seen as a consequence of the opening up of the predominantly rural South to outside influences due to the industrial expansion that took place in the region during and after the First World War. Southern opposition to industrialization was expressed in the famous essay collection \"I'll Take My Stand: The South and the Agrarian Tradition\" (1930), written by authors and critics from the Southern Renaissance who came to be known as Southern Agrarians.\n\nMany Southern writers of the 1940s, '50s, and '60s were inspired by the writers of the Southern Renaissance, including Reynolds Price, James Dickey, Walker Percy, Eudora Welty, Flannery O'Connor, John Kennedy Toole, Carson McCullers, and Harper Lee (whose novel \"To Kill a Mockingbird\" won the Pulitzer Prize in 1961), along with many others.\n\n"}
{"id": "2060040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2060040", "title": "Alexander Fulton", "text": "Alexander Fulton\n\nAlexander Fulton (August 29, 1805 – January 17, 1885) was the founder of the Iowa State Agricultural Society.\n\nFulton was born in Huntingdon County, Pennsylvania, to James and Ann Fulton. He was their fourth child. In 1807, the Fulton family moved to Baltimore, Maryland, and in 1814 to Ross County, Ohio.\n\nIn 1822, Fulton joined the Methodist Episcopal Church. On June 22, 1826, he married Eliza Jones. Shortly after, they moved to Delaware County, Ohio, where they had five children: Robert J. (1829–1857), Gilbert Lafayette (1831–1853), Joseph Warren (1833–1903), William C. (1836–1857), and Martha Amelia (1838–1855). During this time, Fulton worked as a millwright.\n\nIn 1843, the family moved to Fairfield, Jefferson County, in the Iowa Territory. On May 29 of that year, Fulton purchased 40 acres (0.2 km²) of land from the government and built a log cabin in the northeast quarter of the southwest quarter of section 26, township 72, R 10 W. On December 8, 1845, he purchased another 40 acres (0.2 km²) of land, in section 10 of township 71; and on October 15, 1846, another 40 acres (0.2 km²), in section 34 of township 71.\n\nWhile in Fairfield, Fulton was the proprietor of the first drug and book store in the area. He also organized and was the first member of the Jefferson Lodge No. 4, a branch of the Independent Order of Odd Fellows. He and Eliza were also foster parents. One of their many foster children took the name Morris Fulton. Fulton is said to have had a \"celebrated truck garden\".\n\nFulton was one of the founders of the Iowa State Agricultural Society. This organization was a forerunner of the Iowa State Fair.\n\nFulton represented Iowa Governor Cyrus C. Carpenter at the United States Centennial celebration in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, in 1876.\n\nHe died in his Fairfield home on January 17, 1885. His tombstone is number 492 in lot 52 of the Old Fairfield City Cemetery.\n\n"}
{"id": "2060044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2060044", "title": "Decorah Posten", "text": "Decorah Posten\n\nDecorah-Posten was a notable Norwegian language newspaper published in Decorah, Iowa. It was founded in 1874 by Brynild Anundsen, a native of Skien, Norway, and widely read by Scandinavian immigrants in several states.\nIts origin may be traced to the appearance at La Crosse, Wisconsin, in 1866, of the first Norwegian-American literary magazine, \"Ved Arnen\" (\"By the Fireside\"), which would later become a \"feuilleton\" supplement to \"Decorah-Posten\". Amundsen relocated his printing operation to Decorah, Iowa the following year. On September 18, 1874, Amundsen launched \"Decorah-Posten\". It was a well-edited newspaper, its size and familiar format developed gradually. The publisher avoided areas of political and religious controversy, which had destroyed so many earlier papers. Considerable credit has been given to Anundsen for his sound judgment and business sense. He kept abreast of the times in printing and distribution, and expanded the physical plant to meet growing needs.\n\nA popular feature of the \"Decorah-Posten\" was news contributed by Norwegian immigrants and their descendants from many localities in the upper Midwest. The newspaper frequently featured, usually in the \"Ved Arnen\" section, Norwegian language stories and books in serial form, most notably the work of Hans Andersen Foss. The popularity of \"The Cotter's Son\" serial in 1899, has been credited with saving the \"Decorah-Posten\" from bankruptcy.\nThe comic strip \"Han Ola og han Per\" was introduced in the \"Decorah-Posten\" during 1918. \"Han Ola og han Per\" was an exclusive feature of the \"Decorah-Posten\". The comic strip was drawn by Peter Julius Rosendahl (1878-1942) from 1918 until 1935. The comic strip was reprinted almost continually until the newspaper ceased publication.\nAuthor and journalist Johannes B. Wist was the editor of \"Decorah-Posten\" from 1901 until his death in 1923. During much of this period, he also served as editor of \"Symra\", a Norwegian language literary magazine which was also published in Decorah, Iowa. Kristian Prestgard served as editor-in-chief of \"Decorah-Posten\" from 1923 until his death in 1946. Simon Johnson served as co-editor from 1929 until his retirement in 1945.\n\nTo the \"Posten\" were incorporated the \"Minneapolis Tidende\" in 1935, and the \"Skandinaven\" in 1941. By 1948 the \"Posten\" claimed to have a larger circulation than all other Norwegian-American newspapers combined. The \"Decorah-Posten\" ceased publication in 1972 when it was purchased by \"Western Viking\". Now known as \"The Norwegian American\", this bilingual publication is the continuation of several former Norwegian language newspapers, including \"Decorah-Posten\", \"Ved Arnen\", \"Minneapolis-Tidende\", \"Minnesota Posten\", \"Washington Posten\", \"Norrøna\" and \"Skandiaben\".\n\nIt is not known if there is an index to the articles of this newspaper, and, if so, for what time period and where such an index can be found.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2060051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2060051", "title": "Shira", "text": "Shira\n\nShira may refer to:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2060056", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2060056", "title": "Traou Mad", "text": "Traou Mad\n\nTraou Mad is a French delicacy produced in Pont-Aven, Brittany. It is a full fat butter cookie served for breakfast. \"Traoù Mat\" (in peurunvan orthography) stands for \"Good Things\" in Breton.\n\nTraou Mad is a registered trademark.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2060060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2060060", "title": "Total Death", "text": "Total Death\n\nTotal Death is the sixth studio album by Norwegian black metal band Darkthrone. It was recorded in August and October 1995 at Ancient Specter Ruins and released in 1996 by Moonfog Productions. \n\nAll of the album's lyrics were written either by members of other black metal bands or Nocturno Culto (unlike the band's usual method on other Darkthrone albums, in which Fenriz was the main lyricist). \n\nThe album was released on CD and LP; the vinyl edition featured different cover art. In March 2011, \"Total Death\" was reissued by Peaceville Records with an extra track and an extra CD of commentary by the band members. The extra track was recorded around the same time as the album and previously appeared on a Moonfog compilation.\n\nLyrics by Nocturno Culto unless noted otherwise.\n"}
{"id": "2060071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2060071", "title": "William Salter (minister)", "text": "William Salter (minister)\n\nWilliam Salter (1821–1910) was an American Congregational minister, public orator, social activist and historian.\n\nGraduating from Andover Theological Seminary in 1843, Salter and his companions — the so-called \"Iowa Band\" — went West to Iowa when it was only a territory to organize congregations, build churches and battle sin in all its infinite varieties. They were the single most distinguished Protestant group of their time, and Salter, through the years, emerged superior to them all, according to biographer Philip Jordan.\n\nSalter began his ministry in Jackson County, preaching in the Maquoketa area. In 1846 he became the second pastor of First Congregational Church in Burlington, Iowa, and remained senior minister of this congregation for more than 60 years until his death in 1910.\n\nAccording to Jordan, \"Salter played a dominant role in transforming the slovenly community, where filth filled the alleys, pigs wallowed in streets and cows grazed on the public square, into a prosperous and cultivated 20th-century Burlington.\" He was instrumental in establishing a public library and getting a library building built. He served as president of the school board. He was a trustee of the State University of Iowa (now the University of Iowa), which awarded him an honorary doctorate.\n\nPrior to the Civil War, Salter not only allied himself with anti-slavery societies, but also operated an Underground Railroad station to aid slaves fleeing to freedom. Runaways found sanctuary at his South Hill home and in a hidden room beneath his church. During the war, Salter visited Union troops as far south as Atlanta.\n\nSocial Gospel theologian George Herron served briefly with Salter as associate minister in 1892 and 1893, before taking a position as professor of Applied Christianity at Grinnell College.\n\nIn 1876 he compiled and had published a compilation of the letters and speeches of James W. Grimes, who served Iowa in the U.S.Senate and voted against convicting President Andrew Johnson.\n\nA Burlington grade school was named after him, and the Congregational student center at the University of Iowa bears his name. Grinnell College, heir to the academic institution founded by the Iowa Band, reveres the memory of Salter. His portrait hangs in the Des Moines County Heritage Center, and a portion of his library is housed at the Burlington Public Library with a number of his published works.\n\nSalter's son, William Mackintire Salter, was a philosopher and lecturer for the Ethical Culture Society in Chicago.\n\n"}
{"id": "2060073", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2060073", "title": "Alexander Levi", "text": "Alexander Levi\n\nAlexander Levi, a French Jew of Sephardic origin, was the first foreigner to be naturalized in Iowa. He was born in 1809, in Hellimere, France near Strasbourg and settled in the town of Dubuque in 1833 where he became a civic, business and religious leader. A grocer, miner, mine provisioner and successful department store owner, he founded the first two Jewish congregations in the city, was a loyal Whig, served a term as Justice of the Peace and was the first Mason to be sworn in after the Dubuque lodge received its charter. He was naturalized in 1837 and died in 1893.\n"}
{"id": "2060085", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2060085", "title": "Cheonsa Misonyeo", "text": "Cheonsa Misonyeo\n\nCheonsa Misonyeo (Korean 천사 미소녀; also marketed in Chinese Pinyin: \"Tiānshǐ Měishàonǚ\", Japanese: \"Tenshi Bishōjo\", English: \"Angel Prettygirl\") is a Korean language pop album by Taiwanese singer/actress/model Vivian Hsu, released October 10, 1996 on the SAMPONY label. It is Vivian's first and, , only foray into the Korean language. It is also by far the rarest of Vivian's solo albums.\n\nSome of the tracks are Korean translations of songs from her first album, 天使想 (py. Tiānshǐ Xiǎng, jp. Tenshi Sou, en. Angel Dreaming), while others are originals.\n\n"}
{"id": "2060090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2060090", "title": "American Protective Association", "text": "American Protective Association\n\nThe American Protective Association (APA) was an American anti-Catholic secret society established in 1887 by Protestants. The organization was the largest anti-Catholic movement in the United States during the later part of the 19th century, showing particular regional strength in the Midwest. The group grew rapidly during the early 1890s before collapsing just as abruptly in the aftermath of the election of 1896. \n\nUnlike the more powerful Know Nothing movement of the 1850s, the APA did not establish its own independent political party, but rather sought to exert influence by boosting its supporters in campaigns and at political conventions, particularly those of the Republican Party. The organization was particularly concerned about Roman Catholic influence in the public school system as well as unfettered Catholic immigration and what was seen as growing Catholic control of the political establishments of major American cities.\n\nAttaining a six-figure membership at its peak in early 1896, the organization's collapse was rapid, with only a hollow shell remaining by 1898. The rump organization was finally terminated in 1911 with the death of its founder.\n\nOn the afternoon of Sunday, March 13, 1887, a meeting was called in the Clinton, Iowa law office of Henry F. Bowers to discuss the recent electoral defeat of incumbent mayor Arnold Walliker, which Bowers and others blamed on the organized efforts of Roman Catholics in the local organized labor movement. Seven men were in attendance, including the defeated former mayor and his brother. The decision was made by the seven men to establish a new political society to combat Catholic political influence, to be called the American Protective Association, and a constitution and Masonic-influenced ritual was drawn up for this new organization.\n\nBowers was elected the group's first \"Supreme President.\" Aside from Bowers himself, there were six other founding members. Bowers would later relate that this \"First Council\" was composed of three Republicans, two Democrats, one Populist, and one Prohibitionist. The religious make-up of the First Council was said by Bowers to include members of the Methodist, Baptist, Presbyterian, Congregationalist, and Lutheran religious denominations, as well as \"one of no religion.\"\n\nDuring the APA's first two years the organization was small and regionally compact, with local councils limited to the Midwestern states of Iowa, Illinois, and Nebraska. No internal documents indicating the membership size of the early secret society exist, the organization's records having been destroyed in a fire. The organization was unquestionably tiny in this period, however, with membership topping the 11,000 mark only in the first weeks of 1892 — this after having \"increased enormously\" over the preceding six months.\n\nThe years 1892 and 1893 initiated a period of dramatic growth in the size of the APA, and the secret society began capturing headlines in newspapers around the country. By September 1893 the head of the Buffalo, New York local council of the APA — formerly a Loyal Orange Institution member from Toronto — boasted of more than 800 members in that city alone, and promised that \"we are going to run this city just as the APA runs Kansas City, Detroit, Saginaw, and other cities of the West.\" Other cities in which the APA grew to exert powerful political influence during the middle years of the 1890s included Omaha, Rockford, Toledo, Duluth, and Louisville, with a slightly lesser impact in Rochester, St. Louis and Denver.\n\nGrowth of the APA during the early 1890s was spurred by the circulation of forged documents, including in particular a set of purported “instructions to Catholics” advising the faithful against \"keeping faith with heretics,\" and another alleged Papal encyclical over the signature of Pope Leo XIII calling for Catholics to \"exterminate all heretics\" on or about St. Ignatius Day [September 5], 1893.\n\nThe Canadian-born W. J. H. Traynor, past Supreme Grand Master of the Loyal Orange Institution of the United States and editor of a weekly anti-Catholic newspaper from Detroit, \"The Patriotic American,\" succeeded Bowers as Supreme President in 1893. It would be he who would lead the group during its period of greatest influence during the mid-1890s. Traynor, the son of a building contractor, had joined the Orange Order at the age of 17 and maintained membership and connections with a host of religious and nationalist secret societies, including the Illustrious Order of the Knights of Malta, the American Patriot League, the American Protestant Association, and other similar organizations.\n\nDuring the middle 1890s, the APA expanded from its Midwestern nexus to become a fully national organization, with Supreme President Traynor traveling extensively to help with establishment of new local councils. The organization seems to have legitimately crossed the 100,000 member threshold sometime in the middle of 1894, according to the sanguine estimate of Humphrey J. Desmond, published in 1912. Rather than citing its substantial and growing paid membership figures, however, the organization frequently made use of rhetorical diversion by trumpeting the number of votes it \"controlled,\" with Traynor on a West coast organizing trip in February 1894 claiming to the press that the group had \"control\" of 2,000 votes in Tacoma, Washington (a town of 36,000 people) as part of 2 million votes \"controlled\" nationwide. The APA's systematic membership exaggeration was noted expressly by a disgruntled former APA lecturer and founder of a rival organization, Walter Sims, who declared in 1895 that for the APA there was \"not a membership in the United States of 120,000, but they call it a million.\"\n\nMembership claims by the APA actually far exceeded a mere exaggerated \"million,\" with Supreme President Traynor claiming in June 1896 a membership for the organization of 2.5 million. Nor was this all, with the APA proudly announcing at a closed convention of the national organization in Rochester in January 1896 that the organization maintained an astounding voting strength of 3.5 million votes — which, when added to the clout of other \"patriotic\" organizations in alliance with the APA accounted for \"more than one-fourth of the voting population of the United States.\"\n\nThe actual high watermark of APA membership actually lay \"somewhere between the calculating boastfulness of Traynor and the resentful disparagement of Sims,\" Humphrey J. Desmond, the first serious scholar of the APA movement, would later declare.\n\nThe Association took an active part in the mid-term election of 1894 and off-year elections of 1895, in some jurisdictions running its own ticket, but more often supporting candidates from the main parties who agreed with its agenda. It often took credit for Republican victories, especially in the GOP landslide year of 1894. Thus it took credit with the election of John W. Griggs to the governorship of New Jersey, by bringing up his opponent's, Alexander T. McGill support of a Catholic protection bill in 1875. It also claimed it had an influence in the elections in Upstate New York during the same period. Its leader Traynor said the APA had twenty members of Congress as members; he boasted that one hundred members had been elected by it.\n\nIn December 1895, the APA played a dominant role in the organization of a convention of patriotic organizations to coordinate efforts in the upcoming 1896 electoral campaign. Joining the APA were representatives of the Loyal Orange Institution, the Junior Order of United American Mechanics, the Society for Protection of American Institutions, and other related groups — organizations which together fancifully claimed some 3 million adherents. The convention adopted a platform calling for restricted immigration, a halt to public money spent for ostensibly sectarian purposes, limitation of the vote to citizens alone, and equal taxation of all except public property, and formed committees to attend the national conventions of the various political parties in an effort to gain commitments for these principles into national party platforms.\n\nThe issue of Free silver and monetary policy proved to be all dominant in the 1896 campaign, however, and the agenda of the APA and its friends sank without a trace. The result proved a crushing disappointment for the APA and initiated a process of rapid membership decline.\n\nIn 1898 Henry F. Bowers regained leadership of the organization he had established, but by this date the APA had already been reduced to what one historian has called \"a shadow of its former self.\" The organization closed permanently in 1911 after the death of its founder.\n\nWhile the Association said it did not have any conflict with Catholicism or the Irish \"per se\", they believed that the Roman Catholic Church was making inroads into the government of the United States with the goal of controlling it. They said that Catholics had congregated in areas of large cities, preventing the election of non-Catholics in those areas, that 60% to 90% of government employees were Catholic, often illiterate and current and hired on the basis of patronage, attacks on the public school system, the \"remarkable\" increase in untaxed church property and the \"fact\" that the army, navy \"were almost entirely Romanized\", \"frequent desecration\" of the American flag by priests and the federal government was controlled by the Jesuits. They said that Roman Catholics were under the complete political control of the Pope and were to required to obey its laws when they were in conflict with those of the state, citing the Papal encyclical issued by Leo XIII on January 10, 1890, \"Sapientiae Christianae.\"\n\nThe APAs program and stated aims included the \"perpetual\" separation of Church and State; maintenance of a free, non-sectarian public school system; prohibition of any government grant or special privilege to sectarian bodies; establishment of an educational qualification to vote, \"purification of the ballot\"; suspension of further immigration, and its resumption on guarantees of residence and educational qualifications; public inspections of all private schools, convents, monasteries, hospitals, educational and reformatory institutions. In New Jersey they were able to sponsor a \"School Flag Act\" and an act forbidding students from wearing religious garb in school.\n\nRepresentatives of the group also made public announcements that the Roman Catholic Church had instigated the Civil War, during which they said Catholics and Irish made up large numbers of deserters, and that both Grover Cleveland and William McKinley were controlled by the Church.\n\nAlthough a veil of secrecy cloaked early doctrinal documents, which later said to have only \"feebly indicated\" the APA's organizational aims, the 1894 national convention approved a 13-point statement of principles which was made public and published. This platform stated that \"loyalty to true Americanism, which knows neither birthplace, race, creed, or party\" was the \"first requisite for membership\" in the APA, and that the organization did not control the political affiliations of its members.\n\nThe group's fundamental opposition to Catholicism was spelled out in the third plank of the 1894 statement of principles, which declared that while the APA was \"tolerant of all creeds,\" it nevertheless\n\"holds that subjection to and support of any ecclesiastical power, not created and controlled by American citizens, and which claims equal, if not greater, sovereignty than the government of the United States of America, is irreconcilable with American citizenship. It is therefore opposed to the holding of offices in National, State, or Municipal government by any subject or supporter of such ecclesiastical power.\"\n\nThe program further spelled out the APA's belief that \"non-sectarian free public schools\" constituted the \"bulwark of American institutions\" and protested against employment of so-called \"subjects of un-American ecclesiastical power\" as public school teachers or administrators. The document also called for a \"prohibition of the importation of pauper labor\" as a means of protecting \"our citizen laborers\" and for tighter standards in immigration and naturalization law.\n\nAlthough regarded by historians as a nativist movement, the APA was not automatically hostile to immigrants — quite the contrary. Many members, perhaps a majority, were themselves foreign-born, including Irish Protestants, Britons, and Scandinavian Lutherans. The organization permitted African-Americans to membership, with blacks elected representatives of their state organizations to national conventions of the organization. Segregated local councils for black members were organized in the Southern States in 1895 and 1896, but local councils in the North were integrated. There is no evidence of either widespread participation by Jews in the APA or official anti-Semitism as a part of organizational practice.\n\nCiting immigration figures for the decade of the 1880s, which were said to have shown that 3.25 million of 6.3 million immigrants to America were Roman Catholic, one 1894 APA apologetic moved beyond the standard rationale of Papal political manipulation in arguing for a tightening of immigration standards for reasons of public safety:\n\"Most all of the better class of immigrants are Protestants. It remains that, almost entirely, the lowest class are Roman Catholics... Among these are mostly found the train wreckers, robbers, plunderers, murderers, and assassins of the country... In the large cities criminal statistics show that while Roman Catholics furnish about four percent of the population, they produce more than one-half of the crime, if we except those cities in which there is a large percent of negro criminals.\"\n\nAlthough supreme power was nominally vested in a membership gathering at annual conventions each spring, in practice the APA was a centrally directed organization staffed by a \"Supreme President,\" and other \"Supreme\" officers which included a Vice-President, two Secretaries (one actively working, one ceremonial), a Treasurer, Chaplain, and six others. These officers constituted a Supreme Executive Board that held day-to-day decision-making authority between conventions. Presidents of the various state councils of the APA and former officers were also accorded places on the Supreme Executive Board.\n\nThe Supreme President and the working Supreme Secretary were full-time, paid functionaries of the organization. The constitutional power accorded to the Supreme President was vast, including the ability to remove state officers at will — thereby making any organized dissent within the Supreme Executive Board between conventions highly problematic.\n\nNational headquarters were based in Chicago until 1896, at which time they were moved to Washington, DC. After 1897 the attenuated organization maintained headquarters wherever the Supreme Secretary resided.\n\nThe primary form of organization was called a \"local council,\" organized on a city-by-city basis, with the various local councils of a state joined into a statewide organization designated a \"Superior Council.\" Multiple local councils could be organized within a single city, provided that at least 25 dues-paying members could be assembled, with charters issued by the Superior Council rather than the national organization. Dues were set at $1.00 per year, with an initial initiation fee of $1.00.\n\nLocal and state organizations were populated by sets of officers following the model of the national organization.\n\nA Junior American Protective Association for boys and girls aged 14–21 was established at a meeting of the Supreme Council in Milwaukee on 12 May 1895. A women's auxiliary was established sometime prior to September 1891 as the Women's American Protective Association (WAPA).\n\nA number of the APAs obligations and rituals were divulged in 1893–94, with the purported full ritual read into the \"Congressional Record\" on 31 Oct 1893 in the petition of H.M. Youmans for the unseating of Representative William S. Linton.\n\nAn independent APA press developed in early 1893, and by 1894 the movement had seventy weeklies. The Association often used spurious canon laws, Jesuit and an cardinal oaths and unauthenticated quotes from the Catholic press in their propaganda. It also sponsored lecture tours of \"ex-nuns\" and priests, who often turned out to be phonies\n\nIn Ohio in 1914 a new group also calling itself the American Protective Association contributed anti-Catholicism to the defeats of Democratic candidate Timothy S. Hogan and incumbent Democratic Governor James M. Cox. A Missouri-based newspaper, \"The Menace,\" depicted Hogan and Cox as puppets of the pope.\n\nAn affiliated organization was founded in Mexico City on September 8, 1895, called the Constitutional Reform Club. Its purpose was to \"combat the growing power and prestige of the Catholic clergy and defend the public schools. The APA was also active in Canada, where it is said to have worked with the Orangemen and \"is said to have controlled elections in the chief cities of the Dominion in 1894 and 1895.\" In England they also apparently worked with the Orange Lodge. They were also reportedly active in Australia.\n\n\n\n\n\nMia rey"}
{"id": "2060104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2060104", "title": "Cajeta", "text": "Cajeta\n\nCajeta is a confection of thickened caramel usually made of sweetened caramelised goat's milk. It is a type of \"dulce de leche\". In Mexico, it is considered a specialty of the city of Celaya in the state of Guanajuato.\n\n\"Cajeta\" is made by simmering goat's milk, or occasionally a sweetened liquid, stirring frequently, until its viscosity increases due to evaporation of water, and caramelized. While goat milk is the most usual base, other liquids or juices may be used.\n\nIn Celaya, and eventually the rest of Mexico, the confection of half goat's milk and half cow's milk became known by the name \"cajeta\", elsewhere, the milk candy is known as \"leche quemada\", \"dulce de leche\", etc. It has cousins in the many Indian milk-based sweets like pera and the milk fudge burfi, and in the opera fudge of the United States. \"Cajeta\" is eaten on its own as a sweet, as a spread or filling for breads and pastries, such as churros, and as a topping for ice cream.\n\nCertain liquors are added to special recipes called \"cajeta envinada\". In addition, \"cajeta envinada especial\" is enriched with raisins, almonds, pecans or nuts. Often it is used as a topping for \"crêpes\", as a sweet sauce boiled and softened down with milk to soak the crepes, resulting in a tasty dessert. It is also very common to place cajeta between obleas to make a traditional Mexican candy.\n\nIn 2005, the Hershey Company introduced a line of \"cajeta\"-flavored confections styled \"Cajeta Elegancita\", targeted at Mexican-food aficionados living in the United States. The marketing decision made headlines when it was discovered the word is a risqué term for the vulva in Argentinian and Uruguayan parlance. That same year, Nestlé released a \"cajeta\"-flavored Nesquik in Mexico.\n\nIn 2006, San Antonio, Texas-based grocery chain H-E-B introduced \"cajeta\"-flavored ice cream.\n\nIn September, 2010, \"cajeta\" was declared the Bicentennial Dessert of Mexico, honouring its history, tradition and origin. Cajeta was born in the city of Celaya, Guanajuato, the state where the Independence of Mexico started back in 1810, with the famous \"Grito de Dolores\" by father Miguel Hidalgo. In Celaya, Hidalgo was named Captain General of America by his staff, making it an important element of the Independence War, as cajeta was easily stored and transported, and lasted for several months without decomposing, thus becoming an important food complement for the poorly fed troops.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2060119", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2060119", "title": "Randy Newman's Faust", "text": "Randy Newman's Faust\n\nRandy Newman's Faust is a 1995 musical by American musician and songwriter Randy Newman, who based the work on the classic story of \"Faust\", borrowing elements from the version by Goethe, as well as Milton's \"Paradise Lost\", but updating the story to the modern day, and infusing it with humorous cynicism.\n\nIn this retelling, God and the Devil fight for the soul of Henry Faust, a student at the University of Notre Dame.\n\nThe musical was performed at the La Jolla Playhouse in San Diego in September 1995, and the Goodman Theatre in Chicago in Sept 1996, as well as released as a CD as a concept album.\n\nIn July 2014, a stripped-down, modernized \"concert\" version was staged for Encores! at New York City Center.\n\n\n\nIn a 1995 \"New York Times\" piece, Newman said that he was first inspired to create a work based on Goethe's \"Faust\" in the 1970s, after a first reading of the play. However, during a 2014 staging of the show at the New York City Center, Newman said onstage that \"[Goethe's] \"Faust\", of course, is a masterpiece: I read the classic comic book, and I concur.”\n\nNewman said he had already been a fan of works that concern Heaven (such as the 1930 Marc Connelly play \"Green Pastures\", and the 1945 movie \"The Horn Blows at Midnight\"), and that \"[i]t's such a big idea, with God and the Devil, that I thought I could put everything I knew into it and say whatever I wanted[.]\" Regarding his own designs for the material, however, Newman also said that \"...there's something so wise about [Goethe's \"Faust\"] that it made me want to try to destroy it, in a way,\" and \"have all its wisdom frustrated by the nature of \"real\" human beings[.]\"\n\nIn 1980, Newman wrote a few songs for the project, as well as a rough draft of a script; he then put it aside to focus on his solo career and film composing.\n\nAt one point Newman showed a script of the show to Mike Nichols, who criticized the conception of the show's \"Faust\" character, \"Henry Faust,\" saying (as Newman put it), \"The kid doesn’t have any arc. Nothing happens to him.” Newman later said, in 2017, \"But I liked that. It makes for a gruesome evening of theater.\"\n\nThe song \"Sandman's Coming\" was recycled from an episode of the 1990 television series \"Cop Rock\", for which Newman had written a number of songs.\n\n\"Randy Newman's Faust\" first had a limited run at La Jolla Playhouse in San Diego in September 1995, which coincided with the release of a concept album version, featuring a different cast and arrangements than the stage version. The stage production, directed by Michael Greif was praised for its score, but criticized for its script and characters.\n\nThe script was rewritten by David Mamet for the second production, in Chicago's Goodman Theatre. This production, featuring the same principal cast, suffered similar criticisms that its script was still not the equal of its score. It ran from September 30 to November 2, 1996.\n\nOn July 1, 2014, New York City Center's Encores! staged a one-night-only performance of the show. This version was stripped down for a more minimal \"concert\" presentation and heavily rewritten. As on the album (but unlike earlier stage versions), Newman himself assumed the role of Lucifer, alongside a new cast that included Isiah Johnson, Tony Vincent, Laura Osnes, and Vonda Shepard.\n\nIn a contemporary review for \"Playboy\", music critic Robert Christgau found the album's vivid songs and musical comedy settings ideal for Newman's \"high-spirited cynicism\": \"Musical comedy is the perfect medium for his unique synthesis of soundtrack grandeur, blues-savvy studio rock, and general Americana.\" He named it the fifth best album of the year. However, \"Faust\" only finished 87th in the voting for the Pazz & Jop, an annual critics poll run by \"The Village Voice\". Al Weisel of \"Rolling Stone\" was critical of songs like \"Little Island\" and \"Northern Boy\", which he felt deviate from the storyline, although he called the album \"the best work in years for all involved\".\n\n\"Life Has Been Good to Me\" was performed by French Stewart as Harry Solomon on 1997's \"A Nightmare on Dick Street,\" an episode of NBC's \"3rd Rock from the Sun\". \"Relax, Enjoy Yourself\" and \"Can't Keep a Good Man Down\" were performed by two different cast groups in \"Ally McBeal: The Musical, Almost\", the 2000 third-season finale of Ally McBeal.\n\nThe music for \"Glory Train\" was partially re-used by Newman in the 2017 song \"The Great Debate\", from his solo album \"Dark Matter\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2060124", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2060124", "title": "Horace Boies", "text": "Horace Boies\n\nHorace Boies (December 7, 1827 – April 4, 1923) served as the 14th Governor of Iowa from 1890 to 1894 as a member of the United States Democratic Party. Boies was the only Democrat to serve in that position from 1855 to 1933, a period of 78 years.\nHorace was born in Aurora, New York and started his education in the public school system. In his late teens, he worked for four years as a farm laborer in the Wisconsin Territory. Moving back to New York, he studied law and was admitted to the bar in 1849, setting up practice in Hamburg, near Buffalo. He was elected to the New York State Assembly (Erie Co., 3rd D.) as a Republican in 1857.\n\nHorace moved to Waterloo, Iowa in 1867 and opened a law office. His career was successful, and he purchased large amounts of farmland in the area.\n\nBoies left the Republican Party in 1880 due to their support of prohibition. He was elected governor of Iowa as a Democrat in 1889, breaking longtime Republican dominance of state politics. Reelected in 1891, he was defeated in 1893, by Frank D. Jackson, a Republican. He was a prominent populist and advocate of bimetallism, and during his term as governor proclaimed Iowa's first Labor Day holiday.\n\nAs governor, Boies gained sufficient prominence to become involved in national Democratic Party politics, though his campaigns for the presidential nomination at the 1892 and 1896 Democratic National Conventions were unsuccessful. His last political campaign, in 1902, was an unsuccessful attempt at the Democratic nomination for a Congressional seat from Iowa.\n\nFollowing his retirement, Boies moved to Long Beach, California. This was a popular destination for Iowans at the time, and Boies was active in social events of his fellow Iowan transplants, participating in the Long Beach Iowa Reunion and serving as president of the Long Beach Iowa Association.\n\n"}
{"id": "2060130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2060130", "title": "K-function", "text": "K-function\n\nIn mathematics, the K-function, typically denoted \"K\"(\"z\"), is a generalization of the hyperfactorial to complex numbers, similar to the generalization of the factorial to the gamma function.\n\nFormally, the K-function is defined as\n\nIt can also be given in closed form as\n\nwhere ζ'(\"z\") denotes the derivative of the Riemann zeta function, ζ(\"a\",\"z\") denotes the Hurwitz zeta function and\n\nAnother expression using polygamma function is\n\nOr using balanced generalization of polygamma function:\n\nThe K-function is closely related to the gamma function and the Barnes G-function; for natural numbers \"n\", we have\n\nMore prosaically, one may write\n\nThe first values are\n"}
{"id": "2060134", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2060134", "title": "Professor Chaos", "text": "Professor Chaos\n\n\"Professor Chaos\" is the sixth episode of the sixth season of the Comedy Central series \"South Park\" and the 85th episode of the series overall. It originally aired on April 10, 2002. The boys hold a contest to try to find a replacement for Butters, who becomes a supervillain after being fired from the group as the replacement Kenny. The episode also parodies \"The Bachelor.\"\n\nThe episode was written by series co-creator Trey Parker and is rated TV-MA in the United States.\n\nAfter Kenny's semi-permanent death near the end of Season 5, Butters became the replacement Kenny, until this episode, where he is fired for simply being too lame. Stan, Kyle and Cartman hold a competition to find a new fourth friend while Butters, feeling rejected and angry at the world, creates an alternate personality, Professor Chaos, and sets off to spread discord among the world. He does minor things like swapping two soup meals at a Bennigan's restaurant, and stealing erasers from Ms. Choksondik during class.\n\nThe boys gather twenty local kids to compete for their friendship, and set up the contest to be like a reality TV show where they show scenes of interactions and show private individual comments. One of the early losers, a boy named Dougie, winds up joining Butters and his \"minions\" (Butters' pet hamsters) as Professor Chaos's sidekick, General Disarray. Together they try to flood the world using a garden hose and then spraying aerosol cans into the air to destroy the atmosphere.\n\nWhile Professor Chaos and General Disarray try to destroy the planet, Kyle, Stan, and Cartman pick six finalists to be their friend: Token, Timmy, Jimmy, Tweek, Towelie, and Pip. They first eliminate Pip during a baseball game when he asked for tea and crumpets. They then decide that Token is a smartass (Kyle points out that Cartman is also a smartass, but Cartman retorts with \"Do we really need another one?\"), Timmy can be too self-centered, Towelie gets too high to be relied on for anything, and Jimmy is a suck-up (while they are deciding, Jimmy gives them a large gift basket with candy and games inside, and a large badge that reads \"Best Friends 4 Ever\").\n\nThe decision cuts off into a cliffhanger, where a narrator asks three questions: \"Will Professor Chaos' latest plot succeed and be the final undoing of Earth? Which boy has been chosen as the replacement for Kenny? And which of these South Park residents: Chef, Mr. Garrison, Jimbo, Officer Barbrady, Ms. Choksondik, and Mayor McDaniels was killed and will never be seen again?\" However, the questions are immediately answered: \"No, Tweek, Ms. Choksondik.\"\n\nSelecting the \"new friend candidates\" using a rose is a parody of the TV show \"The Bachelor.\" Most of the episode was written without any specific idea of who the fourth friend would be.\n\n\"Professor Chaos\", along with the sixteen other episodes from \"South Park\"'s sixth season, were released on a three-disc DVD set in the United States on October 11, 2005. The sets included brief audio commentaries by Parker and Stone for each episode. IGN gave the season a rating of 10/10. The episode was also released on the two-disc DVD collection \"A Little Box of Butters\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2060137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2060137", "title": "Lotus Jazz", "text": "Lotus Jazz\n\nLotus Jazz is an integrated suite of word processor, spreadsheet, database, graphics, and communication software designed for the Macintosh 512K. It was released in 1985 and retailed for US$595.00. The Lotus 1-2-3 spreadsheet was the killer application for the business-oriented IBM PC, and Jazz was an attempt to recreate that success for Macintosh. With the tagline \"The software Macintosh was invented for,\" and promoted on TV at great expense, it was poorly received by reviewers and consumers and became a high-profile flop. In 1988, Lotus was on the verge of releasing an improved version as Modern Jazz, but the project was cancelled.<ref name=\"https://www.nytimes.com/1988/06/15/business/company-news-modern-jazz-software-is-canceled-by-lotus.html\"></ref>\n\nJazz shipped on four 400K 3½\" diskettes: one for start-up, one containing the main program, a copy protected backup program disk, and a disk of sample files. This required the need for multiple swaps of the start-up and program or backup disks. Lotus Jazz Release 1 cannot be run from a hard drive or dual 400K floppy disk drives. If the start-up or both of the main program disks failed, the software is unusable.\n\nThe terminal emulation module is integrated with the spreadsheet module, allowing users dialing into corporate mainframes to have onscreen reports be parsed directly into spreadsheet columns for later editing and refinement.\n\nLotus sold 20,000 copies of the original version of Jazz, while Microsoft sold 200,000 of Excel.\n\n\"Creative Computing\"'s John J. Anderson wrote, \"There is nothing wrong with Jazz that a few healthy software revisions can't patch. Then again, not much of it is really right, either—right in the way it really should have been if it could have been.\" He called out the $600 price tag and the 512K RAM limit of the Mac as major issues.\n\nIn a retrospective column, John C. Dvorak blamed the failure of Jazz on the high price, copy protection, not calling the product 1-2-3, weak import/export functions, and a misguided ad campaign.\n\nIn 2014, Lotus co-founder Mitch Kapor said, \"We were doing business products, and a spreadsheet was an enterprise product. The Mac in 1985 and the enterprise was a complete nonstarter.\"\n"}
{"id": "2060140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2060140", "title": "Timothy Busfield", "text": "Timothy Busfield\n\nTimothy Busfield (born June 12, 1957) is an American actor and director. He has played Elliot Weston on the television series \"thirtysomething\"; Mark, Kevin Costner's brother-in-law, in \"Field of Dreams\"; and Danny Concannon on the television series \"The West Wing\". In 1991 he received a Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Drama Series for \"thirtysomething\". He is also the founder of the 501(c)(3) non-profit children's theatre Fantasy Theatre for Children and B Street Theatre.\n\nBusfield was born June 12, 1957, in Lansing, Michigan, the son of drama professor Roger and secretary Jean Busfield. He graduated from East Lansing High School in 1975. He landed his first professional acting job at 18 in a children's theater adaptation of Shakespeare's \"A Midsummer Night's Dream\". Busfield studied drama at East Tennessee State University and traveled frequently with the Actors Theater of Louisville, which took him to Europe and Israel. In 1981, he moved to New York City, NY, where he joined the Circle Repertory Company for their production of Lanford Wilson's \"Talley and Son\". That same year, he landed his first film role with a bit part as a mortar-bearing soldier in the comedy classic, \"Stripes\" (1981).\n\nMore stage work followed, including a stint as understudy to Matthew Broderick in \"Brighton Beach Memoirs\" in 1982. The following year, Busfield relocated to Los Angeles to join the cast of \"Reggie\" (ABC, 1983), a short-lived comedy based on the British television series \"The Fall and Rise of Reginald Perrin\" (BBC, 1976-79). The year 1984 proved to be a busy one for Busfield; not only did he land his first substantial film role as Arnold Poindexter, the goofiest of the geek fraternity brothers in the hit comedy \"Revenge of the Nerds\" (1984) and its 1987 sequel, but he joined the cast of the long-running drama \"Trapper John, M.D.\" (CBS, 1979-1986), starring as the son of Pernell Roberts' Trapper John McIntyre. He held the role until the series' conclusion in 1986. \n\nFollowing the demise of \"Trapper John\", he joined forces with his brother Buck to create the Fantasy Theatre, a professional touring company for children's audiences - and later Honorary State Children's Theater for California - based in his new hometown of Sacramento, CA. The Busfields also established the award-winning B Street Theater there in 1992, which was devoted to more adult productions. The following year, Busfield was cast as Elliot on \"thirtysomething\". The part was his first mature role to date, and the producers requested that he grow a beard to help sell his image as a married man and father. Over the course of the hit Yuppie show's three-season run, Elliot came to personify the best and worst aspects of the series: a successful advertising executive and father, Elliot also infuriated his friends and family (and viewers) with his marital infidelity and competitive streak with partner Michael Steadman (Ken Olin), all of which went on while his wife Nancy (Patricia Wettig) struggled with ovarian cancer. Despite his character's unpleasant tendencies, Busfield brought humor and honesty to the role, and was nominated three times for an Emmy before winning one in 1991, shortly before conflicts between the producers and cast brought the show to an abrupt conclusion. \n\nBusfield had remained exceptionally busy during his \"thirtysomething\" stint, appearing as the nominal villain in the popular Kevin Costner fantasy \"Field of Dreams\" in 1989, and in 1990, replacing Tom Hulce as the lead in \"A Few Good Men\", a smash Broadway production written by Aaron Sorkin, with whom he would later enjoy fruitful collaborations. He also made his directorial debut with a 1990 episode of \"thirtysomething\", and would helm three episodes of the series before it ran its course. Roles in television features and theatrical films followed, including supporting turns in \"Sneakers\" (1992), \"Quiz Show\" (1994) and the likable kids' fantasy \"Little Big League\" (1994), which allowed Busfield to show off his baseball skills as the first baseman for the Minnesota Twins (an avowed baseball fan, Busfield occasionally served as pitcher in several minor league games). His character, Lou Collins, was loosely based on Twins legend Kent Hrbek. Hrbek would serve as a consultant on the film and he and Busfield became friends.\n\nBusfield returned to network television several times during the late 1990s for high profile shows that never quite caught on with viewers. He was the patriarch of the Byrd clan, which moved from Connecticut to Hawaii in the Steven Bochco-produced \"The Byrds of Paradise\" (ABC, 1993-94), and starred as one of a group of former high school jocks still clinging to their glory days in \"Champs\" (ABC, 1996) for Ron Howard. \n\nBy the late 1990s, Busfield was dividing his time between acting and directing for television, helming multiple episodes of several shows, including Sorkin's \"Sports Night\" (ABC, 1998-2000), as well as \"Ed\" (NBC, 2000-04), for which he also served as associate producer and guest star (as Ed's down-on-his-luck brother Lloyd). During this period, Busfield also began his recurring role as Pulitzer Prize-winning White House correspondent - and love interest to Allison Janney's C.J. Cregg - Danny Concannon on \"The West Wing\". He would appear sporadically on the show throughout its entire network run.\n\nBusfield kept a foot on both sides of the camera from 2000 on; directing and executive producing the successful CBS drama \"Without a Trace\" (2002-) and appearing occasionally as the wheelchair-bound divorce attorney for Anthony LaPaglia's Jack Malone. He also directed episodes of \"Las Vegas\" (NBC, 2003-), \"Damages\" (FX, 2007- ), and \"Studio 60 on the Sunset Strip\". On the latter, he also co-starred on the short-lived Aaron Sorkin series as Cal Shanley, the occasionally nerve-plagued control director for the program's self-titled show-within-a-show. Though that show was ultimately cancelled, despite much marketing as the \"next big thing,\" in 2007, Busfield moved on, serving as executive producer of the Brooke Shields-led drama, \"Lipstick Jungle\" (NBC, 2008-2009).\n\nIn 2019, \"Guest Artist\", directed by Busfield, premiered at the Santa Barbara International Film Festival. The film is written by, and stars Jeff Daniels. \"Guest Artist\" was shot on location in New York City, and in Daniels' hometown of Chelsea, MI. This film marks the launch of Grand River Productions, a production company with Daniels, Busfield, and Melissa Gilbert.\n\nBusfield remains a stage actor and director whose Broadway credits include \"A Few Good Men\" and \"Brighton Beach Memoirs\", where he was star Matthew Broderick's understudy. Off-Broadway, he worked with Circle Repertory Company in 1982. With elder brother Buck Busfield, he is co-founder of the B Street Theater in Sacramento, California, where he has appeared in and directed numerous contemporary works. The Busfield brothers also established Fantasy Theater, a touring troupe that plays to children. Busfield writes children's plays for the Fantasy troupe. \n\nBusfield was married to actress and director Radha Delamarter before divorcing in 1986. The couple had a son, Willy. In 1988 he married fashion designer Jennifer Merwin, with whom he had children Daisy and Samuel. They filed for divorce in 2007.\n\nA representative for Busfield said in January 2013 that Busfield had become engaged to actress Melissa Gilbert over the holiday season. They were married April 24, 2013, in a private ceremony at San Ysidro Ranch in Santa Barbara, California. Busfield and Gilbert resided in Howell, Michigan, from 2013 to 2018 but moved to New York City late in 2018. During the 2016–17 academic year, Busfield served as an artist in residence at Michigan State University.\n\n"}
{"id": "2060144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2060144", "title": "Adventures of Captain Marvel", "text": "Adventures of Captain Marvel\n\nAdventures of Captain Marvel is a 1941 American 12-chapter black-and-white movie serial from Republic Pictures, produced by Hiram S. Brown, Jr., directed by John English and William Witney, that stars Tom Tyler in the title role of Captain Marvel and Frank Coghlan, Jr. as his alter ego, Billy Batson. The serial was adapted from the popular Captain Marvel comic book character then appearing in Fawcett Comics publications \"Whiz Comics\" and \"Captain Marvel Adventures\".\n\n\"Adventures of Captain Marvel\" was the 21st of 66 film serials produced by Republic and their first comic book character adaptation (not counting comic strips). The serial featured the Fawcett Comics superhero, placed within an original screen story. Captain Marvel fights a masked criminal mastermind called the Scorpion, who is determined to gain control of an ancient weapon. It is made in the form of a large metallic scorpion with adjustable legs, tail, and removable lenses that must be properly aligned in order to activate its powerful ray.\n\nDuring an archaeological expedition to Siam's volcanic Valley of the Tombs to find the lost secret of the Scorpion Kingdom, a device of great power, the Golden Scorpion, is discovered hidden inside a sealed crypt. While examining it, the device's quartz lenses are aligned and powerful energy beam erupts, causing an explosion, resealing the crypt. This allows young radio broadcaster and expedition member Billy Batson, who obeyed the warning on the crypt's seal not to enter, to be chosen by the ancient wizard Shazam. The wizard grants Billy the powers of Captain Marvel whenever he repeats the wizard's name. Captain Marvel's powers can be used only to protect those in danger from the curse of the Golden Scorpion. The crypt's entrance is quickly cleared, then Captain Marvel utters \"Shazam!\" and quickly resumes his Billy Batson alter ego.\n\nThe Golden Scorpion's power lenses are divided among the scientists of the Malcolm Archaeological Expedition so that its power can only be used by agreement of the entire group, who then return to the U. S. after their discovery. An all-black-garbed-and-hooded criminal mastermind, calling himself the Scorpion, steals the ancient device after their return and sets about acquiring the distributed lenses. Several expedition members are killed in the Scorpion's quest, despite Captain Marvel's continual efforts to thwart his plan. Deducing that the Scorpion always seems to know what happens during the scientists' meetings, Billy later confides to his friends, Betty Wallace and Whitey Murphy, his suspicion that the Scorpion may be one of the Malcolm archaeological team.\n\nDiscovering that one of the Golden Scorpion's power lenses was purposely left behind, cleverly hidden in the very crypt where it was first discovered, Billy Batson and the surviving scientists agree it must be retrieved. They return by cargo ship to Siam where, near landfall, they barely survive a typhoon before finally being rescued by Captain Marvel. They eventually retrieve the hidden lens, but it is stolen by the Scorpion. By accident, from a distance, the Scorpion observes Captain Marvel transforming back into Billy Batson. Capturing Billy and gagging him, the Scorpion interrogates him about his secret. Billy's tape gag is removed when he agrees to talk. \"Shazam\"! is his only response, and he transforms in a flash of light and smoke into Captain Marvel. The Scorpion's identity is then revealed to be one of the last surviving scientists, who is killed by a Siamese native who turns the idol's ray on him, vaporizing him.\n\nCaptain Marvel tosses the Golden Scorpion and its power lenses into a volcano's molten lava to prevent them from ever being used for evil. Upon its destruction, Captain Marvel is instantly transformed back into Billy Batson forever, the danger from the device's curse having now been eliminated.\n\n\n\"Adventures of Captain Marvel\" was budgeted at $135,553, although the final negative cost was $145,588 (a $10,035, or 7.4%, overspend). It was filmed between December 23, 1940, and January 30, 1941, under the working title \"Captain Marvel\". The serial's production number was 1098.\n\nThe serial was the outgrowth of Republic's lengthy failed attempt at licensing National Periodical Publications' (DC Comics today) Superman character. Paramount Pictures successfully tied up all the character's theatrical exhibition rights for its series of color Superman animated cartoons, produced for them by Fleischer Studios. The license that National Comics had provided to Paramount was exclusive and prevented other film companies from using the Superman character, even in a non-animated production. Undaunted, Republic's completed script was reworked with various changes; it now had an original masked hero, the Copperhead, standing in for Superman, subsequently becoming the \"Mysterious Doctor Satan\" serial. The studio then approached Fawcett Comics about filming their most popular superhero, and they agreed. Director William Witney, however, was skeptical about trying to adapt Captain Marvel after the problems encountered with Superman. In spite of this, \"Adventures of Captain Marvel\" became the first superhero film adaptation of a comic book character.\n\nNational attempted legal action to prevent Republic from developing their arch rival's most successful character, citing Republic's failure at adapting a Superman serial. Their attempt was unsuccessful, however, and Captain Marvel went into production. Writing in his autobiography of the period, William Witney revealed that in his court deposition he had claimed that both Superman and Captain Marvel were derivatives of Popeye. About a decade later, following an ongoing legal battle with National and a declining comics market, Fawcett ceased publication of all its comic book titles. In the 1970s the dormant Captain Marvel family of characters was licensed and revived by DC Comics, which they ultimately wound up purchasing, adding a final chapter to the Fawcett/DC saga.\n\nThe opening military scenes in the serial were reused footage lifted from Republic's 1938 film \"Storm Over Bengal\".\n\nRepublic cast Frank Coghlan as Billy Batson due to his physical resemblance to the character. There was, however, some criticism that Tom Tyler did not sufficiently resemble the \"beefy, baby-faced Captain Marvel\". At the time, Tyler was a weightlifting champion and the serial costume matched Captain Marvel's original comic book appearance, right down to his being slender. By the time of the serial's release, the appearance of Captain Marvel had changed due to Fawcett comics artist C. C. Beck changing the way he drew the character.\n\nTyler was described as clumsy, knocking over props with his \"lanky arms\". Punches in fight scenes would sometimes connect.\n\nDue to his convincing performance in \"King of the Royal Mounted\", actor Robert Strange (as John Malcolm) was the obvious choice to be the identity of the Scorpion, but by the end of the serial he was just a diversion and not actually the villain.\n\nRepublic's flying effects, under the direction of Howard and Theodore Lydecker, were performed using a dummy that was slightly larger than life (at 7 feet tall) and made of paper mâché so that it weighed only 15 lbs. The uniform was made of thin silk and cotton jersey. Four pulleys were connected to each shoulder and leg calf, which were then strung on two wires so the dummy moved along them by its own weight. The wires were attached to two opposite objects running across the camera's field of view, and the dummy then slid from one to the other, giving the illusion of flight. This system was originally intended for use in their Superman serial; a prototype dummy was even built but later discarded. The flying pose used for the dummy (arms outstretched and back arched) was based upon a Captain Marvel drawing by comics artist Mac Raboy. If the dummy needed to be seen flying upwards, the cape was convincingly weighted and the dummy was then slid backwards. The film sequence was then optically printed in reverse, completing the flying illusion.\n\nStuntman David Sharpe was the human part of the effect. Dressed as Captain Marvel, he would leap from a high point with his body straight, as if able to fly, then roll to land at the last second. The combination of flying effects and stunts produced the overall illusion of a flying person. Sharpe also performed other stunts as Captain Marvel, such as back flipping and knocking down attacking Siamese tribesmen in the first chapter. Some shots of Captain Marvel flying were filmed with Tom Tyler posed against rear-projected clouds. Some of these scenes, however, show the suspension wires used to hold him up.\n\nAccording to author Raymond William Stedman, the flight scenes were \"the most successful illusion of such aerobatics ever put upon the screen, in serial or feature\".\n\nThe technique had been developed in the earlier serial \"Darkest Africa\" (1936) and was later used again in the \"Rocket Man\" serials (\"King of the Rocket Men\", \"Radar Men from the Moon\", \"Zombies of the Stratosphere\", and \"\") released during 1949-1953.\n\nBy contrast, the lower-budget Columbia Pictures \"Superman\" serials, which eventually appeared in the late 1940s, used unconvincing animated cartoon sequences to represent various actions, most frequently Superman's flights. The animated scenes of Superman in flight were vastly inferior to those of Republic's live-action sequences in Captain Marvel. Columbia produced the cheapest serials of the era, and producer Sam Katzman was notorious for cutting costs to the bone.\n\nOne of Captain Marvel's tunics later appeared as the costume of a member of the Kryptonian science counsel in the first episode of \"The Adventures of Superman\" television series, filmed in 1951. The lightning bolt on the tunic is partially concealed by means of an oversize collar around the actor's neck.\n\nAfter the usage in the \"Superman\" TV series, two Captain Marvel tunics were worn by actors in early episodes of the pioneering U. S. science fiction TV series \"Space Patrol\". Very early into the series, those Marvel tunics were replaced by custom made shirts.\n\nAt the Science Fiction Museum and Hall of Fame in Seattle, WA, one of the remaining Captain Marvel tunics is on public display.\n\n\"Adventures of Captain Marvel\"s official release date was March 28, 1941, although this is actually the date the sixth chapter was made available to film exchanges. The serial was re-released on April 15, 1953, under the title \"Return of Captain Marvel\", between the first runs of \"Jungle Drums of Africa\" and \"Canadian Mounties vs. Atomic Invaders\".\nDue to the superhero nostalgia craze in the U. S. during the spring of 1966, resulting from the hit \"Batman\" television series, the serial was quickly re-released again, this time as a complete, nearly four-hour-long feature film. All 12 chapters were just strung together, each opening with the prior chapter's ending scenes and a plot synopsis. Audiences were forced to sit through a summation of what they had just watched in the previous chapter.\n\nRepublic Pictures released the serial as a two-tape VHS set in 1995 and then again in 2003 on DVD as a two-disc set. Kino International released the serial on Blu-ray on September 19, 2017; it contains a commentary track provided by film historians Jerry Beck, Chris Eberle, Shane Kelly, Boyd Magers, Leonard Maltin, Adam Murdough, Constantine Nasr, Donnie Waddell, Tom Weaver, and J.D. Witney.\n\nAuthors Jim Harmon and Donald F. Glut claim that \"Adventures of Captain Marvel\" is \"unquestionably one of the finest movie serials ever made, possibly the best with the exception of the three Flash Gordon epics\". Author William C. Cline describes this as one of the most outstanding of all serials and Republic's \"masterpiece\". He writes that Tyler's \"striking performance...remains in thousands of minds as the most memorable serial hero of all time – bar none\".\n\nQuentin Tarantino called Tyler's Marvel \"the most homicidal berserker superhero of cinema.\"\n\nThe characters of Betty Wallace, Whitey Murphy, and John Malcolm all appeared in the Fawcett comics in the 1940s, beginning with \"Capt. Marvel And The Temple Of Itzalotahui\" (\"Whiz Comics\" #22, Oct. 3, 1941) featuring Murphy and Malcolm; Murphy made several appearances in the 1970s DC Comics incarnation of Captain Marvel, as featured in the comic series \"Shazam!\" and \"World's Finest Comics\".\n\nFawcett also published a sequel to the 1941 serial. Titled \"The Return of the Scorpion\", it was one of the four releases in its Dime Action Books series, which imitated the format of the popular Big Little Books. The book is notable for reusing several characters from the serial and for being Otto Binder's first writing assignment at Fawcett; he went on to be a prolific comics writer for the company.\n\nIn 1994 comic book writer/artist Jerry Ordway wrote and painted a graphic novel, \"The Power of Shazam!\", and an ongoing comic book series spin-off, which ran from 1995 to 1999. Ordway used the Republic serial as his initial inspiration in his handling of the Captain Marvel characters.\n\n"}
{"id": "2060152", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2060152", "title": "Andy Kelly (American football)", "text": "Andy Kelly (American football)\n\nAndy Kelly (born June 6, 1968) is a former American football quarterback in the Arena Football League (AFL). He played in the AFL for fifteen seasons for a total of eight different teams. He also played for two seasons for the Rhein Fire of the former World League of American Football. He played college football at the University of Tennessee from 1988 to 1991.\n\nKelly attended Rhea County High School in Evensville, Tennessee. As a member of the Golden Eagles high school football team, he won Gatorade All-America honors in football as a senior.\n\nKelly was a successful collegiate quarterback at the University of Tennessee from 1988–1991 under head coach Johnny Majors. He took over as a starter for Sterling Henton in the 1989 SEC rivalry game against the Alabama Crimson Tide. He became part of Tennessee football lore as part of team that accomplished a 35–34 at Notre Dame, later dubbed as \"The Miracle at South Bend\". The Vols trailed at one point 31–7 before Kelly helped instrument a comeback to beat the Fighting Irish. He set numerous Tennessee and SEC passing records, most of them broken by his later successor at Tennessee, Peyton Manning.\n\nKelly's predominant professional football career was as an Arena Football League quarterback, playing some of his career with the New Orleans VooDoo, for whom he played for in 2005 and 2007, and which was the last team for which he actively appeared as a player. He previously played for the Charlotte Rage (1993, 1995–96), Nashville Kats (1997–2001), Dallas Desperados (2002), Detroit Fury (2003–2004), Kansas City Brigade (2006), and Utah Blaze (2006). At the end of the 2006 season, he held several all-time AFL career records, including touchdown passes (767), passing yards (39,948), pass attempts (5,827), pass completions (3,621), and interceptions (155).\n\nOn Friday, April 27, 2007, in a 72–57 home loss to their division-mate, the Georgia Force, Kelly joined Aaron Garcia, Clint Dolezel, and Sherdrick Bonner as the only quarterbacks in professional football history to throw for over 800 career touchdowns.\n\nOn December 6, 2007, Kelly was named the head coach of the proposed new All American Football League's Tennessee team. However, the league suspended operations March 12, 2008 (permanently, as things later developed, although only a delay was announced at the time), and Kelly signed with the Georgia Force two weeks later on March 26, 2008, but never actually participated in any games as an active player for the Force. Kelly retired as an Arena Football player following the 2008 season and currently serves as a commentator on Tennessee Volunteers football radio broadcasts.\n\nIn June 2013, Kelly was nominated for the Arena Football Hall of Fame.\n\nAfter his professional football career, Kelly became a full-time insurance agent for State Farm.\n\n"}
{"id": "2060159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2060159", "title": "Montezuma, Costa Rica", "text": "Montezuma, Costa Rica\n\nMontezuma is a town in Puntarenas Province, Costa Rica which began as a remote fishing village and has gained popularity since the 1980s among tourists on a budget.\n\nMontezuma is located near the southern tip of the Nicoya Peninsula, southwest of Paquera and south of the town of Cóbano. Most services are in Cóbano. The nearest airport is located in Tambor.\n\nThe town features a mix of local residents as well as foreign backpackers and eco-tourists who come for the beaches, rivers, and scenic waterfalls that surround the village. The nearby Cabo Blanco Nature Reserve draws a large number of visitors to the area. \n\n"}
{"id": "2060168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2060168", "title": "Marlborough Churchill", "text": "Marlborough Churchill\n\nMarlborough Churchill (August 11, 1878 – July 9, 1947) was a U.S. Army officer and a distant relative of Winston Churchill. Together with Herbert Yardley, he was instrumental in establishing the joint United States Department of State and United States Department of War's cryptanalytic group, called the Black Chamber.\n\nHe was born on August 11, 1878 in Andover, Massachusetts. Churchill graduated from Phillips Academy in 1896 than attended Harvard University and graduated in 1900.\n\nHe was commissioned in the Field Artillery Branch.\n\nHe was promoted to captain on April 13, 1911.\n\nHe was promoted to major on May 15, 1917. On June 12, 1918, he was promoted to colonel in the National Army. On August 8, 1918, he was promoted to brigadier general.\n\nIn 1917, Churchill served on the general staff of the American Expeditionary Force in France. On 5 June 1918, Brigadier General Churchill succeeded Ralph Van Deman as head of the Military Intelligence Branch of the War Department, where he remained until 19 August 1920.\nIn this capacity, Churchill advocated in December 1918 that MI-8, Cipher Bureau, then headed by Herbert Yardley, continue to do its cryptanalyic work after World War I.\n\nHe received the Army Distinguished Service Medal.\n\nHis other decorations included Order of the Bath, officer of the Legion of Honour, commander of the Order of the Crown of Italy, and commander of the Order of Leopold.\n\nHe married Mary Smith on October 7, 1904.\n\nHe died on July 9, 1947 in Manhattan, New York City. He is buried in Arlington National Cemetery Section 11, GraveSite: SH-385\n\nChurchill is a member of the Military Intelligence Hall of Fame.\n"}
{"id": "2060173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2060173", "title": "Frater Albertus", "text": "Frater Albertus\n\nFrater Albertus Spagyricus (Albert Richard Riedel) born May 5,(1911–1984); founder of the Paracelsus Research Society in Salt Lake City, which later evolved into the Paracelsus College. Based on the Paracelsian concept of three essentials, Body, Soul and Spirit, Frater Albertus developed a system of teaching alchemical concepts using the spagyric technique of separation and cohobation. The unique graduated courses allowed students to explore aspects of the vegetable, mineral and animal kingdoms in an understandable and accessible way. After his death in 1984, the college ceased operations in the United States but continued to carry on the tradition in Australia. Frater Albertus had a profound effect on the way Alchemy and particularly the Spagyric method was disseminated and understood in the mid to late 20th century. His works were translated into many languages. He was a rosicrucian (an AMORC member).\n\n\n\nGerman\n\n\nFrench\n\n\nSpanish\n\n\nItalian\n\n\nCzech\n\n"}
{"id": "2060177", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2060177", "title": "Ithamar", "text": "Ithamar\n\nIn the Torah, Ithamar () was the fourth (and the youngest) son of Aaron the High Priest. Following the construction of the Tabernacle, he was responsible for recording an inventory to ensure that the constructed Tabernacle and its contents conformed to the vision given by God to Moses on Mount Sinai. \n\nAfter the death of his two eldest brothers, Nadab and Abihu, when they had been punished by the Lord for performing an unauthorized sacrificial offering, Ithamar served as a priest along with his elder brother, Eleazar, and Ithamar and Eleazar are regarded as the direct male ancestors of all Kohanim.\n\nDuring the travels of the Israelites in the wilderness, Ithamar was responsible for the work of the sons of Gershon and Merari, the carriers of the Tabernacle fittings and structures, whilst Eleazar was responsible for the work of the sons of Kohath, who carried the cult objects (the ark, the altar and the lampstand).\n\nHe was also in charge of the work of the Levites in general.\n\nAccording to Samaritan sources a civil war broke out between the sons of Ithamar (Eli) and the sons of Phinehas {a son of Eleazar son of Aaron the High Priest} which resulted in the division of those who followed Eli and those who followed High Priest Uzzi ben Bukki at Mount Gerizim Bethel (a third group followed neither). Likewise according to Samaritan sources the high priests line of the sons of Phineas died out in 1624 CE with the death of the 112th High Priest Shlomyah ben Pinhas when the priesthood was transferred to the sons of Ithamar; see article Samaritan for list of high priests from 1613 to 2013-the 131st high priest of the Samaritans was Elazar ben Tsedaka ben Yitzhaq; the 132nd high priest was Aharon ben Ab-Chisda ben Yaacob; the 133rd high priest is Aabed-El ben Asher ben Matzliach.\n\nThe burial site of Ithamar is associated with the \"Hill of Phinehas\" as related in the Bible and is attributed with the location of the village of Awarta in the Samarian section of the current day West Bank. Due to the uncertain security situation, the Israel Defense Forces limits visits by Jews to one annual night close to 5 Shevat on the Hebrew calendar (around January or February).\n\n"}
